
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE , 1883.


"FANCY'S ROAMING."

		BY L. M. HEWLINGS. 

[Affectionately inscribed to Dear Sisters and Friends
	who abide in the Beautiful Valley of Salt Lake.]

My thoughts they will go roaming
	With mixed sadness and delight--
On Fancy's wings they take me
	Over the mountain's height.
Far over the weird and fearful,
Over the strange and new, 
Till I reach the smiling valley
	Where hearts for me are true.

Fresh in its pristine beauty,
E'en as Eden seeming fair, 
With the same sweet odors laden, 
	Through all the balmy air.
Most glorious in its gleaming
	Of fruit and flower bloom,
While birds of brightest plumage
	With nature join in tune. 

Ten thousand rills are bearing
	Richest blessings as they go
Leaping down the cloud-capped mountains
	White with eternal snow.
Girdled 'round with mighty hills,
She sits a very Queen;
Polished by art--glad nature
	Has adorned with living green.

Thou peerless, charming valley!
From a desert wild brought forth;
O would that I could now recount
	The praise of toillng worth.
Could tell of those who toiled in faith,
With dauntless courage brave.
Until they found a resting place
	within the quiet grave.

waters * bitter to the taste 
Caill frosts and buring sands,
With persevering labor brought
	Fruitage from barren lands.
Where once roamed beasts and savage hordes
	O'er all the desert plain,
They tilled, and ploughed, and sowed the seed,
	That now yields golden grain.

Fierce plagues oft tried their hearts full sore 
Famine stalked through the land, 
Yet reared they huts * from out the earth
	Where now proud mansions stand. 
High places level'd, depths filled up,
Gorges and chasms dread
A mighty highway overleaps,
On which the nations tread. 

Thro' this once howling wilderness
	Of dreariness and blight,
They wrought by faith inspired by Him,
Who said, "Let there be Light."
By faith pre-visioned, oft they viewed
	This smiling  valley o'er, 
As Moses on Mount Nebo stood
	And saw fair Canaan's shore. 

They saw the solitary wastes
	Filled with abodes of men,
From north to south, from east to west,
All nations gather in. 
Cities and towns dot all the vale,
And commerce makes her way
O'er pulsing wires, with lighting speed,
Throughout the night and day. 

O wondrous change!  and passing strange
	That e'en thro' travail caome, 
This living light of beauty bright,
That covers all the plain!
I gaze enraptured on the scene
	With awe-inspired delight;
I meet and greet dear friends and true,
On this, my airy flight. 

Some dear forms lie there to rest
	Beneath the emerald sod,
While their freed spirits walk the hills
	And gardens of our God.
Softly the angels whisper,
Of things I cannot reach,
And thoughts float on in language
	Too grand to clothe in speech.  

Yet the joys of fancy's roaming,
Friends that I meet and greet,
The valley's bright adorning
	Forms a picture, passing sweet.
Atchison, Kansas, May, 1883.

* Alkaline.
* Small adobie houses.


[Column 1]
MEDITATIONS.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	The noblest study of intelligent beings, is
the study of that complex and most wonderful
nature of which each human being is a unit;
yes, the human is a grand metaphysical nature
both in its spiritual and corporeal structure; it
is so intricate, so altogether marvelous, that we
need not go one step farther to find our Crea-
tor, our God. He has mingled His essence so
palpably in this wonderful construction that
the human and the divine cannot be separated;
the climax of this grand machine is a marvel
and a mystery, even when the anatomist lays it
bare before the eye and before the understand-
ing; all of which not even a Galen has fully
penetrated or understood; the dissecting knife
exhibits wonders—but death has then taken
possession, and has shut down the grand wheel
of life—the mainspring of earthly existence,
and the machinery stands still; its complex
and sublime working is no longer in action;
but let us imagine this beautiful, mechanical
body transparent in life! that we could watch
its matchless movements and its eternal adap-
tation for all its purposes. The life, in the
form of rich, pure blood, rushing all so noise-
lessly and methodically that the being itself is
not aware of it, rushing through that grand
citadel, the heart, (I have heard six hundred
times in one hour) and then dispersing and fill-
ing every artery and vein with renovated life
and vigor; the next grand coadjutor, the brain,
so mysterious in its affinity to the other grand
organs, surely it must contain the throne-room
where reason, judgment, thought and memory
hold their daily and hourly levee, aye, minute
by minute, and from which emanate the won-
drous tale of life, and all its grand and myste-
rious operations! And then the spirit that has
so imprest its image upon the body that has
been so wonderfully prepared for it, and
which alone sets the grand machine in motion;
that mighty spirit! how little we actually
know about it, even when it has been our co-
mate for three score years and ten, and often
more. With regard to the corporeal, scienee
opens a door, many doors and shews us much—
but after the closest research—reason tells us
we know but little, even of ourselves. How
absurd is scepticism in the face of all this ig-
norance, where the effects alone tell us there is
a mighty, but a mysterious cause, and only by
analogy can we reason out a portion of the
hidden truth. The great Creator has drawn a
line beyond which merely human intellect can
not pass. Electricity, that marvelous agent
about which so much has been discovered and

[Column 2]
proven, what we see of its effects to-day we
may cocjecture, what it will be as a powerful
agent to man even fifty years hence; yet with
all the knowledge concerning it to-day, what
this powerful and efficient agent really is the
keenest mind has not been able to discover,
though it is delightful to study and conjecture
upon it, and we know that it is a power from
the laboratory of Heaven, and ought to teach
reverence and humility even in the using of it;
the human machine is powerfully impregnated
with it—in fact all the elements are incorpora-
ted more or less in this God-like organism,
which will take eternity to fully develop in
all its compartments, yet even in this twilight
state of being, the watchful can catch glimpses
that startle and electrify the meditative; and
they realize the sublimity of the words of Holy
Writ, "We are fearfully and wonderfully
made!" I ever remember my brother's words,
and the accents in which they were uttered as
he left the Anatomical Schools in Cambridge,
he seemed absorbed in what he had just be-
held, and what had wonderfully opened and
excited his mind, "let the sceptic and the athe-
ist witness what I have just beheld, and if they
are not convinced of an Omnipotent Creator,
neither would they be persuaded though one
arose from the dead." With all these grand
mysteries and problems before our eyes, shall
we spend our lives in thoughtless frivolity, in
reckless apathy? In deathly ignorance, in
cold formality? Rather let us know ourselves
and the grandeur of our origin. Let those
who will and do glory in the patent of nobility
which they received from Westminster or St.
Paul's; we will glory that our patent was bes-
towed in the Chancery of Heaven, and en-
dorsed by the authority of the same; and let
us, as Latter-day Saints, ever bear in mind the
covenants which we have made in holy places,
and under which many of the present genera-
tion were born; let us endeavor to be wise in
our day and generation; this will detract from
no legal enjoyment, but will enhance our
pleasures and give a pungency and a potency to
them that must be realized to be understood
or appreciated; there is a laughter that makes
the ear of the listener sad and tells the phase
of character louder than words; there is a
mirth from which the wise and the good recoil;
there are palaces of gorgeous beauty, in which
the pure and the wise could not live even a
day in happiness, the sweet, humble home ever
"swept and garnished" by sweet, pure, unso-
phistocated spirits, basking in the smile and
approbation of their Heavenly Father is where
the Spirit of God visits, and inspires, sustains
and blesses, and where the hand of God is ac-
knowledged, and even His rod is kissed, for its
wounds are better than the flatteries and fri-
volities of an ignorant, supinely smiling world.
May the Spirit of the Holy One be around
His people. May they be enabled to imbibe
this Holy Esseuce, that by it they may apply
and use the noble gift bestowed upon them.
	Salt Lake City, May 24th, 1883.


The Princess Louise's training has been en-
tirely practical. She is a finished housekeeper,
and served an apprenticeship at Osborne to
cook, confectioner, laundress of fine things,
seamstress and dressmaker. Every day for
years the Queen's table at Osborne was graced
by a dish made by one of Her Majesty's daugh-
ters.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			A VENERABLE WOMAN.
					______
		PRESENDIA LATHROP KIMBALL.
				[Continued.]
	It is difficult to write a life so varied, one
might say complex, as the one of Sister Pres-
endia satisfactorily. There are so many min-
ute details that fill in so many different places
that to make a complete whole would require
moro space than newspaper columns afford.
However, brief outlines have brought us so
far on the journey into the wilderness as to
Winter Quarters, and now let us stay awhile
in this resting place by the way and recall a
few items of interest. Here the people waited,
yes, waited for the pioneers, waited for the
Mormon Battalion, a weary waiting, a desolate
waiting.
	The Saints built log houses, "chinked in," ac-
cording to a Western phrase, and covered
generally with dirt and straw. The floors
were dirt or sometimes puncheon. When we
consider the comfortable homes the Saints had
left, the hardships and privations they had en-
dured, the hundreds of deaths by the way, we
may well say, "it was like the children of Isra-
el in the wilderness," Yet through faith they
endured without murmuring, and besought the
Lord for strength and his spirit to sustain
them. Sister Presendia's home was a very
humble one, built of logs and covered with
straw and dirt, a little straw upon the dirt
floor for cleanliness. Here she toiled day af-
ter with scanty fare, and taught the children,
and when school would close for the night her
voice would leave her with weakness and over
exertion; but she loved the children and
gained their affection.
	The people were afflicted with much sick-
ness, the water of the Missouri river was un-
healthy, it was an ague country; provisions
were scarce, and the lack of vegetables and
fruit caused scurvy and other similar com-
plaints, and on all sides there were sickness
and distress, very few escaped, and many died.
Sister Presendia was taken seriously ill the
week her school closed for the season, she was
attacked with winter fever; but she had un-
swerving faith in the ordinances of the Gospel,
and through the exercise of faith by those
around her and the careful nursing and kind
attentions of friends, she was, after a painful
and dangerous illness restored to health.
	About this time three of the brethren who
went out with the Mormon Battalion came
back to Winter Quarters, having been sent on
special business from Pueblo. One of the
three was John Tibbetts, the other names the
lady does not remember. The circumstance
made a lasting impression upon her mind, she
says, "I never beheld such a pitiful sight be-
fore as these poor, worn out travelers present-
ed. Their clothing hung in rags, their faces
burned, and with sun and snow they were
nearly blind. Their feet were wrapped in raw-
hides from the buffalo. I sat and heard them
tell how fearfully they had suffered crossing
the prairies in the dead of winter, and all this
in the employ of a government that had driven
us, defenceless women and children, into a
savage wilderness. I could not refrain from
weeping when I looked upon these my breth-
ren and realized how they had suffered."
	As early in the Spring of 1847 as the snow
left the ground, the pioneers who had been
busy preparing themselves during the winter,
left to search out a haven of refuge for the
Saints who had been compelled to flee from a
land of liberty, yes, a land of freedom, free-
dom purchased with the blood of their own
ancestors, who had themselves fled from re-
ligious persecution and tyranny. Only a few
men were left to raise grain and vegetables,
and protect the women and children. Five
hundred able-bodied men had gone to Mexico
to serve their country, and the pioneers took
away nearly one hundred and fifty more, thus
were left the aged, the feeble, the women and
the children. The sisters left almost as it
were alone, were humble and prayerful and
lived near to the Lord, otherwise they could
not have lived at all. The families of the Bat-
talion men, the families of the pioneers were
left as it were dependent upon the Lord for
protection. Sister Presendia at this time was
living with Sister Laura Pitkin, another of the
wives of Heber C. Kimball, their house was
near Sister Vilate's, and they used often to
meet and pray together, and others of the
family and neighbors would gather in. They
were much exercised in their feelings for the
pioneers who had gone out into a new and un-
discovered country, exposed to the perils of a
savage wilderness. It was a time of great
anxiety. Soon after the pioneers left, when
the weather grew warmer, another company,
consisting of all those who could fit themselves
out with teams and provisions, grain for plant-
ing and implements of husbandry, started upon
the trail of the pioneers towards the Rocky
Mountains; now indeed was the settlement al-
most deserted. The Sisters had greater need
to draw near to the Lord, and the manifesta-
tions of his goodness and power were indeed
marvelous, especially in healing the sick. The
gift of tongues and interpretation, and the gift
of prophecy were given them for their comfort
and consolation in this trying time.
---To mention one or two of the wonderful
manifestations of the healing power will surely
not be out of place. A child of Lyman Whit-
ney's (brother of Bishop N. K. Whitney) was
restored to life after it was seemingly past re-
covery. The little one had not seen or spoken
for two days, its eyeballs were dried over, the
sisters were called in to administer, Sister
Elizabeth Ann Whitney, Sister Vilate, Sister
Laura Pitkin and Presendia Kimball and one
or two others. They administered, anointing
the child with oil, and bathing its eyes with
milk and water, and it was restored to life and
health miraculously, but the sisters gave God
the glory.
	On another occasion, previously, a visit was
made at Sister Leonard's and a meeting was
held, at which Sister Eliza R. Snow, Zina D.
Young and Elizabeth Ann Whitney were
present, also Sisters Vilate and Presendia Kim-
ball and some others. Brother Leonard spoke in
tongues in an Indian language, and prophesied
of the destruction of this nation before the
coming of the Savior. The power that rested
upon him was so great as to produce such an
intense sympathy with those in the room, that
they were all wonderfully affected. Sister Eliza
Snow walked the floor to keep her breath.
All felt the distress and agony that awaited
the nation, more particularly the priests and
harlots being destroyed in their wickedness.
Sister Eliza Snow spoke afterwards in the pure
language of Adam, with great power, and the
interpretation was given.
			To be Continued.


WASTE NOT WANT NOT.

	Waste is a subject that is rarely spoken of in
connection wiih religion. "Wilful waste makes
woful want," is an old saying, also "Waste not
want not;" though the latter does not always
prove true. From Holy Writ we learn that it
is displeasing to God, and our own reason con-
firms it. It is more especially so when so many
of the earth's inhabitants fare so poorly.
	St. Peter says, "To knowledge add temper-
ance;" aud when Jesus had fed the multitude
with five loaves and two small fishes, He told
them to "Gether up the fragments that re-


mained that nothing be lost." Modern revela-
tion in the Doctrine and Covenants informs us
that God has given the beasts of the field, the
fowls of the air, the herb and the good things
that came of the earth, whether for houses,
barns, orchards or gradens, for the benefit and
use of man, to please the eye and gladden the
heart, for food and raiment, taste and smell
and to enliven the soul.
	And it pleaseth God that He hath given all
these things unto man; for unto this end were
they made, to be used with judgment, not to
excess, neither by extortion, and in nothing
doth man offend God, or against none is his
wrath kindled, save those who confess not His
hand in all things, and obey not his command-
ments.
	Vegetarianism is now attracting considerable
attention in Europe, and is advised on account
of the land being able to support three times the
people, if cattle were not fed, and the ground
planted with grain and vegetables. But God
says "Whoso forbiddeth to abstain from meat
that man should not eat the same is not or-
dained of God;" but "Wo be unto that man
that sheddeth blood, or that wasteth flesh and
hath no need." Doc. and Cov. It is also given
that it is pleasing to Him that meat should
only be eaten in the time of winter, or excess
of hunger, and all things are to be used with
judgment and not to excess.
	Also cruelty to animals, though not often
considered religiously, is not the less worthy of
our condemnation, while their general inability
to defend themselves should implore our clem-
ency. It is said that much torture is inflicted
on animals by physiologists and that physiology
cannot posssbly progress except by means of
experiments on living animals. A humane
writer says "You may buy knowledge at the
cost of sin, and often do so in scientific investi-
gations.
	We do not remember reading any scripture
on the subject, but it seems reasonable that
God does not like his dumb creatures to suffer,
especially as it is written that a sparrow does
not fall to the ground without His notice.
Christ's commandment to "Do unto others as
ye would that they should do unto you" is
probably not out of place in regard to the
brute creation, and certianly to torment and
abuse them is the reverse of mercy; kindness
and compassion, which attributes we are en-
couraged to cultivate and practice.
	ANN FELLOWS.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	We should do everything we can for others,
if only to dissipate the thought of what they
omit to do for us.—Madame Swetchine.
	"The time has come when scientific truth
must cease to be the property of a few. It
must be woven into the common life of the
world."—Agassiz.
	Habit, if wisely and skillfully formed, be-
comes truly a second nature, as the common
saying is; but unskilfully and unmethodically
directed, it will be as it were the ape of nature,
which imitates nothing to the life, but only 
clumsily and awkwardsly.—Bacon.
	We want one man to be always thinking and
another to be always working, and we call one
a gentleman and the other an operator; where-
as, the workman ought often to be thinking and
the thinker often to be working, and both
should be gentlemen in the best sense. The
mass of society is made up of morbid thinkers
and miserable workers. It is only by labor
that thought can be made healthy, and only by
that thought can be made happy, and
the two cannot be separated with impunity.—
Ruskin.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 3


MAY.

ADDRESSED TO BISHOP O. F. WHITNEY.

Bright harbinger of Summer, scented May,
	Spring's fairest month, thrice welcome thou,
For thee the mavis tunes her sweetest lay,
	The linnet warbles on the hawthorn bough.
List, list, what music greets my ear,
	What sound reverberates through the dell,
Is it the crow of the chanticleer,
	Or matin chime of village bell?
Wake, wake, my harp, and join the song,
	And thou, my lute, assist the lay,
For Pheobus drives his steeds along
	To herald in the joyous May.
Bright Sol illumes the mountain crest,
	And morn her wings outspreads,
The swallow peers from out her nest
	Beneath the sheltering leads.
The dew from off the skylark's wing
	Like diamond sparks are thrown,
The rising makes the welkin ring
	With music all her own.
The buttercup with golden crest,
	The modest primrose pale,
And violet in azure drest
	Bedecks the fragrant vale,
And like the daisy, greets the day,
	Who wide her petals spreads,
As conscious of the breath of May
	They rear their perfumed heads.
Gay Flora's bud crowned nymphs are seen
	To scatter flowers with lavish hand.
Pomona come in mantle green
	To strew her fruit bloom o'er the land.
Gay Momus dons his cap and bells,
	And youth is decked in ribbons gay,
For mirth, and joy, and pleasure tells
	That this is blitbesome, smiling May.
Haste, haste, my friends, and join the throng
	For Pan has tuned his pastoral reed,
Terpsichore leads the dance along
	And trips it lightly o'er the mead.
Behold, 'tis Venus' chariot comes
	Drawn by a pair of turtle doves:
She pays a visit to our homes
	With all her train of dimpled loves.
And see, from out yon busy town,
	The boisterous crowd come rushin on,
The sternest face has lost its frown
	And bade dull care awhile begone:
The pole is hnng with garlands sweet,
	For lasses choose their queen to-day,
While youth and age together meet
	To celebrate the first of May.
						MARTHA A. GAULTON.


[Column 1]

INFLUENCES AND DISCIPLINE.

	How true it is that outward objects and sur-
roundings affect us in this life. There are—
there must be certain unseen influences too
that exalt or debase, as well as that which we
see and hear. Place a child in an atmosphere
of wickedness, where he hears bad language, and
is a witness to dishonesty, duplicity and mean-
ness, and it becomes second nature to him al-
most invariably, even though he may have
been born of goodly parents and with unvitia-
ted blood. And vice versa, though there may
be exeptions to this general rule. Tempta-
tions are incidental to human life, there is no
doubt but this is strictly in accordance with
certain laws and principles marked out as pre-
paratory, or educational to obtaining a higher
state of perfection. Trials, we are told, purify
us as gold seven times tried. If we possess
pure gold, or its equivalent, in our souls we
shall never know it unless we pass through the
trying and purifying process. And yet our
natural inclinations would lead us to avoid all
that would be calculated to stir our hearts to
their very depths, and open up the fountains
of sorrow, or perhaps bitterness. But fortu-
nately, it may be for us, we have not exactly
the, shaping of our own destiny, though we
may cut and carve away at it considerably,
and sometimes mar it, in attempting to mold it

[Column 2]

to our ideas. Life is a beautiful thing after
all, notwithstanding all the hard knocks and
bruises one gets, and the rough paths our feet
must sometimes tread on in its great highway.
The jostling, and crowding, and pushing
among our fellow men makes us more
mindful of others, finding we must give a
little, yield a point, and that others have
rights that must be respected as well as our-
selves. Otherwise we might be intensely sel-
fish, as some are inclined to be even now,
though we get so much discipline by contact
with the great world of mankind. But, as I
said at first, people certainly partake of the
scenes among which they live. This is a fact
that cannot be denied. If oceans, mountains,
lakes and rivers, prairies, valleys and forests
effect in a large degree the stronger and more
prominent traits of character, then why not in
the finer qualities of heart and mind by the
beautiful in art, in music, in poetry and the re-
finement in the homes of the people, be they
rich or poor, effect them by association even
though they may not receive a high degree of
cultivation in any one of these branches. To
live among refined people is in itself cultiva-
tion; to live among beautiful objects, if one
has the sense to appreciate, is impressional; to
hear good music is to be emotional; there is
nothing more powerfully emotional than music;
even the music of the waterfall, the murmur-
ing of a river as it winds its way towards the
ocean, but more grand and sublime still, the
murmuring sea, music indeed, music that lives
forever afterwards in the soul. One who has
lived in early life, or for many years by the
seashore, can never forget the delightful sound
of the waves as they dash and break against
the beach, or in soft murmurs lull one to sleep
in their gentler and more placid moods. It
comes back again ever and anon, fresh and
natural in after years like a sweet melody.
Music is, and must be, the highest human
sense, the nearest approach to Deity. The
Creator has all things set to music, and in the
most delicate rhythm, and we only catch here
and there a whisper, an undertone of the di-
vine inspiration. It is so far above our poor
comprehension, yet by and bye we may under-
stand. Poetry is one of the elements that con-
stitute higher attributes, and to properly ap-
preciate true poetry one must be possessed of a
high order of intellect, must have some con-
ception of music, and be intensely inspiration-
al. I am aware that many will dispute this,
nevertheless I maintain the theory. Who can
judge poetry but a poet, one whose whole soul
revels in the undiscovered realms of that fair
Elysium that lifts you into another atmos-
phere than that of this mundane sphere. Who
can criticise music but a musician whose very
life is not only devoted to it, but enraptured in
its expression? Who should judge the merits
of a painting but an artist, and one who is
able to grasp the subject in its idealistic sense
as well as in the actual developement worked
out by the production upon the canvas. Yet
one may be greatly influenced by any and all
of these things without fully appreciating
them. And indeed much happiness of a fine
quality is given from these sources. It is ele-
vating to live among beautiful scenes out and
in doors, for they beautify and give impres-
sions to our lives that are lasting in character.
They tend to gentler ways and softer morals,
make us more charitable and forgiving, more
in sympathy. with the better side of humanity,
and more lenient towards those who lack in
grace and excellence of attainment. No miser
ever lives among beautiful scenes. Their walls
are bare, their clothing scanty, their lives bar-
ren of good deeds. The remembrance of beau-
tiful scenes, beautiful things and their associa-
tion clings to us as long we live, even though
great changes may transpire in our circum-
stances.

[Column 3]

"Long, long be my heart with such memories filled,
Like the vase in which roses have once been distilled,
You may break, you may ruin the vase if you will,
But the scent of the roses will hang round it still."

Therefore let us gather around us as much of
the beautiful as we can, not encroaching upon
the privileges of others, and when we have that
which is pleasant and happifying let us give
God the glory, and let our hearts swell with
gratitude to Him that "our lives are cast in
pleasant places." And let no one be selfish in
appropriating the gifts of heaven and shutting
out their brethren and sisters who are not so
highly favored, but enlarge their hearts in
proportion to the bounties heaven has bes-
towed, and dispense with a liberal hand to
those in need. Thus may the blessings of hea-
ven descend, for the poor are the Father's es-
pecial care, "for theirs is the kingdom of hea-
ven." And it is true that we can see the ne-
cessity of discipline. The Lord's ways are not
as our ways, and we do not know the ways and
means He makes use of to school our spirits
and bring us into nearness to Him.
	Spiritual impressions are similar in their bear-
ings to material ones; one sees a vision, the
Spirit of the Lord may even accompany it, yet
the whole force of its meaning and influence
may not come at once with all its thrilling
emotions, the soul-absorbing sensations that
follow and linger in the brain, the mind, and
the heart, and often influence one's whole life
afterwards. One who possesses spiritual powers
cultivated to a high extent is always companion-
able, though the education in other respects may
have been neglected.	AUNT EM.


﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.
                        ______
     In our last number, May 15th, a poem by
Lula was published, entitled “Blessings," and
addressed to Sister Presendia L. Kimball, but
by mistake the name of the lady to whom it
was addressed was omitted, which we sincerely
regretted.	
     On Monday, May 11th, Sister E. R. S. Smith
left the city to attend the Woman’s Conference
in Brigham City and travel through several set-
tlements in that Stake of Zion, to visit Washa-
kee among other places and assist the Elders
in the organization of a Relief Society there
among the Lamanites. She has been absent
ever since, traveling most of the time, and
speaking to the people.
    Mrs. H. H. Jackson, a lady well and favora-
bly known to the public as an anthor and con-
tributor to the Century Magazine and Atlan-
tic Monthly, has been spending a day or two
in the city. We have had the privilege of
some pleasant talks with her and feel greatly
pleased with her acquaintance. Once known
she could never be forgotten. She is making
notes of some of the distinctive features of
our belief and history as a people, and will
certainly do justice to the subject from her
stand point.
    On Wednesday, May 23rd, the Annual
meeting of the Primary Association of South
Cottonwood was held, over one hundred child-
ren present, about fifty boys ranging from five
to about fourteen yearn old. The exercises
were well rendered. Mrs. Elizabeth Davis
presiding, assisted by her Counselors, Mrs.
Margaret Cahoon and Mrs. Wooton.  The
yearly report was an excellent one, and the
prospects are good for still greater improve-
ment in the future. The meeting was ad-
dressed by E. C. Clawson, E. B. Wells, Louie
Felt, Mary A. Freeze and other ladies.


Be not simply good—be good for something.
—Thoreau.


6	THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.

	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY.	-	JUNE 1, 1883.


ANNUAL MEETING OF THE D. H. A.

	The first Annual Meeting of the Deseret Hos-
pital Association was held in the Council House,
in this city, Saturday, May 12th ult., Mrs. Eliza
R. Snow Smith presiding. After singing the
hymn beginning "Let Zion in her beauty rise,"
prayer was offered by Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball,
then singing again, "O, my Father, thou that
dwellest," after which the following report of
the secretary for the past year was submitted:
	One year ago to-day a meeting was held in
this house, to consider the matter of organizing
an Association, with a view to the establishment
of a hospital. About twenty-five ladies were
present, and nominations of officers for the as-
sociation were made, and a decision arrived at
to pay an initiatory fee of one dollar each as a
condition of membership, and to elect by vote a
President, Vice-President, Executive Board,
Secretary and Treasurer. Accordingly the fol-
lowing ladies were elected: President, Eliza R.
Snow Smith; Vice-President, Zina D. H. Young;
N. Hyde, Phoebe Woodruff, Bathsheba M.
Smith and Jane S. Richards; Secretary, E. B.
Wells; Treasurer, M. M. Barrat; as an Honor-
ary Committee, all the Stake Presidents of Re-
lief Societies; Dr. E. B. Ferguson was engaged
as Resident Surgeon; Dr. R. B. Pratt was chosen
Visiting  Surgeons; Mary Emma Vanschooven,
clinical registrar and dispensary clerk; and
Mary Ann McLean, Matron; Visiting Commit-
tees and a Finance Committee were subsequent-
ly chosen. At a meeting held on the 15th.
of May, it was decided to rent a building until
some better arangement could be made, and
committees were appointed to canvass the sever-
al parts of the city, and adjacent districts, and
see what means could be obtained as donations
towards defraying the expenses of establishing
such an institution. A petition was drawn up
and submitted to President Taylor for approval,
and the canvassing committees began their
work. These ladies were enegetic and success-
ful, and meetings were held twice and even
three and four times a week, and reports were
made from the several committees, who had
the labor in hand. President Taylor was noti-
fied from time to time of the proceedings of the
committees, and gave advice in regard to the
movement.
	A circular was issued throughout the various
Stakes of Zion, giving the names of the officers
 of the institution and regulations made to enter
oractically upon the work. One of these was
the suggestion that each Belief Society and Y.
L. and Y. M. M. I. Association should pay
statedly one dollar per month as a regular sub-
scription to assist in defraying the current ex-
penses of the hospital, and that the amount
paid stand as a credit in favor of any member of
the respective Society or Association that should
require the benefit of the same.
	Finally a building considered suitable for the
purpose of a hospital was rented in the Twelfth
Ward, in this city, at $60 per month, and prep-
arations made to formally open the hospital.
A committee waited upon President Taylor,
and invited him to be present at the dedication,
with others of the leading brethren of the
Church, on Monday, July 17th, at ten o'clock a.
m., and at that time the Firsst Presidency of the
Church were all present, also Apostle F. D.
Richards and other brethren, and of the presi-
dency of this Stake of Zion, Elder Joseph E.
Taylor. After the dedicatory services the Resi-
dent Surgeon and Matron were set apart by the
brethren. Patients were received at the hospital,
and business transacted in the name of the
Deseret Hospital Association.
	Some necessary changed have been made since
the organization, from time to time, two ladies
have been added to the Executive Board; Dr.
Romania B. Pratt and Dr. Ellis R. Ship and Dr.
E. S. Barney, to the Visiting Surgeons; the Res-
ident Surgeon resigned at the regular monthly
meeting, Oct. 2nd, and Dr. M. P. Hughes was
engaged to fill the vacancy. In November it
was considered wise to dispense with the ser-
vices of the Dispensary Clerk, in order to econo-
mize. In March the Matron gave notice of her
desire to resign, and at the meeting in April it
was decided to engage Mrs. Harriet Ellis in her
place. Mrs. Ellis was installed as Matron on
the first of May, and is now practically filling
the position.
	The people have donated liberally to the hos-
pital, but the officers of the Association find
that with rent to pay, and necessary help to
keep up the institution, the enterprise requires
strict economy and active executive ability. The
ladies of the Executive Board, who manage the
benevolent institution have certainly shown
great zeal and earnestness in this philanthropical
work, and been determined to make the effort a
successful one for the benefit of the sick and
afflicted among the Latter-day Saints. Through
good and evil report they have been untiring in
diligence and good works, and still feel deter-
mined to persevere in well doing. Only those
who have practically labored in this direction
can appreciate the immense effort that has been
made, and the arduous labors undertaken to ac-
complish what has already been done in this di-
rection, with the sole motive of ameliorating the
condition of suffering humanity. At the pres-
ent time the Association has enrolled eight-hun-
dred and forty-five members, who are expected
to pay an annual fee of one dollar per year.
	Financial report. Total cash received during
the year, $4,772.65; orders, $1,092.05; total, $5,-
864.70. There have been other donations of
lumber, flour, meat, cow and calf, produce and
other things; quilts, blankets, bed linen, etc.
Most of THESE articles have been given by the
Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A. in the several
Stakes of Zion. Expended in cash for fitting up
and furnishing the building as well as current
expenses since opening the Hospital, July 17,
1882, $3,705.28; Total amount of expense in or-
ders, etc., $1,044.55; Total expense, $4,749.83; Re-
maining in cash, $1,067.37; Orders, 47.50; Total,
$1,114.87; The fees from patients received during
the year amount to $754.75 cash; Other things,
$337.30; making in all, $1,092.05.
	After the report had been read and approved
the President made a few remarks, reviewing
briefly some of the labors of the past year and
expressing her gratitude to all who had aided in
the work in any way. She also expressed her
gratitude to President Taylor for his wise counsel,

[Column 3]
and excellent judgment which had been of
great benefit to her, and those associated with
her in the labor. Referred gratefully to the ef-
ficient help and aid received from the Bishop of
the ward, and thanked all who had been helpful
in any way, for it had certainly been a great
blessing to comfort and benefit the sick and
aflicted, and to think that our people can have a
place of their own, where they could receive
medical and surgical assistance, and the admin-
istration of the ordinances of the Gospel where
faith could be exercised for them. The Presi-
dent said the Unity Club had made great efforts
to help the institution and contributed liberally,
indeed they stood foremost in that respect, i. e.,
aiding the hospital. There had been many other
large and small donations.
	Sister M. Isabella Horne made a few remarks,
and added, Sister Eliza expressed her feelings on
the subject. She realized that many of the
patients had received great blessings from the
Lord through fasting and the laying on of hands.
	Dr. Elvira S. Barney stated to the meeting
the proposition she had made to the sisters to
teach a class in obstetrics, anatomy and physi-
ology. It was to the effect that she would give
the teaching free, and only receive bare remun-
eration for room and other services rendered.
The students must find their own provisions,
but a cook would be furnished to prepare the 
meals, also to do the washing for the class.
Sister Barney made other explanations in detail.
	Sister Jane S. Richards of Ogden said she was
pleased with Dr. Barney's proposition, thought
it a very liberal one, thought it essential we
should have more efficient nurses and compet-
ent accouchers through the country settle-
ments, referred to her living at a distance from
the hospital, which made it more inconvenient
for her to attend the meetings of the Executive
Board than the other ladies, but had always
made it a point to come when it was possible,
and also to assist all in her power in every de-
partment of the labor to benefit the institutione
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt said that as far as she
was acquainted with the practical workings of
the hospital it was managed in the best interests
of the association and doing great good. That
the physicians connected with it acted upon the
hightest principles of skill and science, their
works assisted by faith. Being a young institu-
tion there were many disadvantages under
which those interested had labored.
	The motion was made to change the name of
the Finance Committee to Ways and Means
Committee, which was carried unanimously.
The Committee was authorized to act in behalf
of the association, in making arrangements for
the concerts to be given in the Tabernacle, on
the 24th of July, and the Chairman of the Com-
mittee was authorized to call to her aid such
other help as she needed for the work. The
several Canvassing Committees were honorably
discharged from further duty. After some re-
marks from two or three of the Ways and Means
Committee in reference to their special depart-
ment the meeting was adjourned for one year.


EDITORIAL NOTES. 

	A good place for invalids is to go to the Elec-
tric Baths at Mrs. Dr. Hereford's, Thirteenth
Ward, on Third South Street, between First and
Second East Streets. The baths are medicated
as well as electric, and are very exhilarating.
They are specially good in cases where there is
a lack of circulation of the blood, or any indica-
tions of paralysis, also for nervous complaints.
Mrs Horsford is a very genial, affable lady, and
takes great pains to make everything pleasant
and easy. There is a bed to lie down upon in
the room after having taken the bath, which Is
quite a consideration for delicate people.


[Column 1]

	WE had the pleasure of meeting several ladids
and gentlemen of the Boston Excursion party,
among them Mr. and Mrs. Goddard, Major and
Mrs. Pierce from Orange, Mass., who live near
our own home, and who were well acquainted
with some of our relatives, which was especially
gratifying. They expressed themselves pleased
with our city, and particularly with the sermon
of President George Q. Cannon, delivered on
Sunday in the large Tabernacle.

	THE ladies will remember doubtless that this
number—June 1st—commences Volume 12 of
the EXPONENT. It is expected that we shall
have a cover for the paper soon, and indeed had
anticipated commencing this volume with it, but
unavoidable delays have made it impossible to
get the necessary forms here in time, and we do
not think it wise to wait, but pos-ibly it will be
ready by the 1st of July. It will give the paper
a better appearance for a lady's parlor or draw-
ing-room table. We trust the friends and pa-
trons of the "Mormon" woman's paper will re-
new their subscriptions and thereby help to
made it popular, as well as a success financially.
It is already much sought after by strangers and
tourists as a method of finding out something
of the women of this peculiar people who are so
much spoken against all over the world.

	ON pioneer day, the 24th of July, the memor-
able anniversary of the entrance of the pioneers
into Salt Lake Valley, there will be two grand
concerts given in the large Tabernacle in the
city, under the musical direction of Brother
Evan Stephens, the chlidren's favorite. These
two concerts are for the benefit of the Sunday
School Union, the Deseret Hospital and Brother
Stephens' classes. The proceeds to be equally
divided between the three institutions after all
expenses have been paid. Two preliminary
meetings have already been held and the pre-
paratory work commenced. Brother Stephens
will bring several hundred children from Ogden
and Logan, who have been and are now being
trained under his care, to unite with his classes
here in the city in the grand choruses. Twelve
hundred little singers in the Tabernacle will be
a wonderful attraction. The programme is not
yet quite completed, but will be issued very
soon in pamphlet form and scattered throughout
the several settlements north, south, east and
west. It will be a mammoth affair, and in con-
sideration of the day and object in view, it ought
to bring thousands of people from other places.
The officers of the Sunday School Union act as a
committee in behalf of that institution, Brother
George Goddard, Assistant Supt. of Sunday
Schools, Chairman; and "Ways of Means
Committee" of the Deseret Hospital, Mrs. Sarah
M. Kimball, Chairman, are acting in behalf of
the Association; these Commitiees will call to
their aid such other help as they require in order
to make the affair a complete success. Two
special committees have already been appointed.
Elder George Goddard, Mrs. Annie G. Sharp
and Mrs Priscilla Jennings, Committee to make
arrangements with the railroads for special rates
etc., and Mrs. E. B. Wells, Elder Abram H-
Cannon and Brother Evan Stephens, Committee
on programme. The display will be a magnifi-
cent one, and will be worth seeing.
	The concert will open with music on the great
organ by Prof. Joseph Daynes; then comes
America's grand national anthem "Hail Col-
umbia by a grand chorus of twelve hundred
voices, orchestra and organ accompaniments
with twelve hundred American flags waving.
This followed by other national American songs,
chorus by the full company. The "Ho for
Europe," England comes first, a youth bears
the banner with the British colors, and "Rule
Brittania" resounds from the orchestra, a gentle-

[Column 2]
man dressed in the British uniform sings the
grand old song, while up goes twelve hundred
fans with England's colors Scotland comes
next, with the uational airs and bagpipes, a boy
in costume bearing the banner with the thistle,
and the songs of the country are sung. Next
the Welch banner is borne to the front, and the
favorite songs of "Wild Wales." The full chorus
take up the refrain in English. Then a grand
chorus in Welch. Now to the Emerald Isle, and
the banner with the Irish shamrock song, "The
Wearing of the green," and the fans are changed
to green—then for the "Lily of LaBelle France,
and the Marseille, changing the color again
which will with other items conclude the first
part of the programme of the first concert, be-
ginging again with Germany, costume etc., and
the old song "Watch on the Rhine," and still
another change of colors. Switzerland and Italy
follow, and then northward to Scandinavia,
of which Utah contains a very large representa-
tion, and these different countries will have fair
and excellent representation, in their favorite
music, songs and costumes, with banners, mot-
toes, etc.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


BELLE HARRIS.

	I have great pleasure in answering the oft re-
peated question: "Who is Belle Harris?" Belle
Harris is a daughter of Charles Harris, son of
the late Emer Harris, brother to Martin Harris,
one of the three witnesses to the Book of Mor-
mon. Her parents are early and highly res-
pected, citizens of Utah. The character of the
family is beyond suspicion for virtue and integ-
rity, and devoted to their religion as Latter-day
Saints. I believe they were all born in the
Church. Belle is and always was a firm believer in
the testimony of her great Uncle Martin Harris,
and is devoted to all the doctrines of the Church
of which she has always been a highly esteemed
and respected member. She is intelligent and
industrious.
	The present unhallowed persecution is the
only intimation I ever heard of her reputation
being questioned. As to her marriage relations
I need not inquire, nor would it reflect any credit
to me as a lawyer to entertain the remotest
doubt as to whether her answer to the question
as to whether she was married or single was a
privileged one. It matters not whether she is
viewed as a plural wife, prostitute, single wife,
or no wife. I have already stated that her
character is beyond reproach and that point must
not be forgotten.
	Belle Harris stands upon a higher plane, and
in keeping with her higher nature, and as any
virtuous lady should do, says to the jury and the
Court: "Gentlemen, you have no legal right to
ask this question and I decline to answer it."
The question is an insult and a vile insinuation
of departed virtue; and yet were she a public
prostitute no such question, either single or
conglomerated as hers was would ever be asked.
Who ever knew in a single court of free Amer-
ica, such a question to be put to a frmale who
was dragged into court without her consent?
Echo answers, "who?" The court records may
be searched in vain, except in some of the fanat-
ical courts of Utah.
	I admit that in case an unmarried woman has
illegitimate issue and claims support from her
seducer, such a question would be legally proper
and would be asked by HER attorney, as a neces-
sary foundation to the establishment of the
plantiff's claim, but who ever knew of a Court
dragging such a woman before him and com-
pelling her to convict even her paramour. Surely
consistency is a jewel.
	The object of this communication is not to
question the sincerity of Judge Twiss. I am


not yet converted to the belief that he is design-
edly wrong, notwithstanding our wide legal dif-
ference on this point, but must set this action
down as one of those errors he so sincerely and
often has stated he is liable to.
	DANIEL TYLER.
May 19th, 1883.


IN MEMORIAM.

	It is with feelings of the deepest sorrow and loving
remembrance that we are called upon to record the
death of Sister Alice Warburton Needham, which took
place at her residence in the Seventh Ward, May l0th,
1883.
	Deceased was born at Darsbury, Cheshire, England,
March 10th, 1826. She was married to her husband,
Brother James Needham, in 1850, and immediately af-
terwards emigrated to America, and settled in Kanes-
ville, (now Council Bluffs) Iowa, in which place she re-
ceived the Gospel and was baptized. She went to St.
Louis in 1852, where she resided until 1854, when she
came to Utah with her husband. In 1855 she came to
reside in the Seventh Ward, and continued to reside
up to the time of her death. She became a member of
the Relief Society of the Ward at the time of its re-or-
ganization, and filled successively the office of Coun-
selor and President, to which latter office she was cho-
sen May 20th, 1872, and continued to hold the same un-
til her death.
	Sister Needham was a faithful wife, a true and
affectionate mother and a fatihful friend. From the
time that she embraced the Gospel she never faltered in
her faith, and her whole life was devoted to the dis-
charge of her duties as a Latter-day Saint in every po-
sition in which she was placed. She leaves a husband,
three children, seven grandchildren and a host of loving
relatives and friends to mourn her loss.
	The follwoing resolutions of respect to our beloved
President, Sister Alice W. Needham, who departed this
life May 10th, 1883, in the fifty-seventh year of her age,
were unanimously adopted by the Relief Society of the
Seventh Ward of Salt Lake City:
	Whereas, God, in his infinite wisdom, has called from
our midst our President, who was greatly beloved and
respected by us all for her kind and gentle disposition,
her pure, virtuous and exemplary life, her faithful
labors in our Society, and the many good qualities
she possessed.
	Therefore, be it resolved that we, the members of the
Relief Society of the Seventh Ward of Salt Lake City,
do deeply mourn the loss of our beloved President,
Sister Alice W. Needham, and that we condole with her
husband, children and relatives in their great loss. But
while mingling our tears with theirs, we would point
with joy to the hope of a glorious ressurrection which
all true Latter-day Saints possess.
	And be it resolved, that we present a copy of these
resolutions to her husband, and that a copy be sent to
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication, and that they
be spread upon our record book, that the knowledge of
her virtue and inestimable goodness may be handed
down to future generations for their guidance and emu-
lation.
			HARRIET WOODBURY,
[Signed]		ELLEN DINWOODEY,		Counselors.
				MARY ALICE LAMBERT,
					Secretary.


A narrow-minded  man can never; possess
real and true generosity; he can never go be-
yond mere beneovlence. --Talleyrand
  Louisa B. Stephens is the first woman to be-
come President of a bank. She succeeds her
husband in the First National Bank of Marion, 
Iowa.
  Life is made up, not of great sacrifices or 
duties, but of little things, in which smiles and 
kindnesses and small obligations, given habitu-
ally, are what win and preserve the heart, and 
secure comfort-- Sir H. Davy.
   Maria Mitchel, Professor of Astronomy in
Vassar College, has received the degree of L. L
D. from Hannover College, Madison, Ind., the 
first time this degree has been conferred on a 
woman.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SCENES IN NAUVOO, AND INCIDENTS
	FROM H. C. KIMBALL’S JOURNAL.
[line break]
BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
[line break]
	Father makes frequent mention of gather-
ings at the Mansion and other places, in which
we took part, also of entertainments given at
the Concert Hall, and of presiding there a
number of times, which has served to refresh
my memory. Several familiar items I found
written in a small pocket diary which had been
overlooked. The following he wrote: "Febru-
ary 1st, 1845.	*	*	At. ten o’clock in
the evening Elder B. Young and myself went
to see Joseph and Hyrum.” I remembered this
incident and that he brought home a small
scrap from each of their burial robes. Their
bodies had been kept hidden till this time upon
Joseph’s premises and closely guarded, as there
had been large sums of money offered for them
by different parties to speculate upon; but the
Saints were never so poor nor so destitute
of human feelings as to commit such an act
towards any one, much less men so beloved
and revered as were the Prophet Joseph and
his brother Hyrum.
	Father speaks of frequent visits paid to
their mother and their to widows, Emma and
Mary Smith. The 25th of April following, he
mentions "assembling at the Mansion in com-
pany with five of the Twelve, Sister Emma
and Dr. Bernhisal to see the giants, Frederic
W. Randall and his lady. He afterwards
took me with other members of his family to
see them. None others were present but Brig-
ham Young, which circumstance was impressed
upon my mind by his looking so diminutive as
they stood side by side with the giant. He
wore an immense gold watch and chain, also a
large pin and finger ring, the latter, which we
handled, was so large that it went easily over
three of the President’s largest fingers. He
was heavily built and had a deep and power-
ful voice. His wife was about the right hight
for him, but did not seem to enjoy going about
the world for a show as much as he did, being
in a delicate state of health, she expressed her
repugnance to this kind of life and a desire for
a more quiet one back in their native land
among the highlands.
	They reminded us so of the characters we
read of in the “Scottish chiefs" and other
novels of the olden times, when their brave
chieftians and ladies of high degree were all
large in stature. The Book of Mormon and
Bible also, tell us that there were “giants in
those days."
	On the “6th of February,” father wrote,
“Last night I dreamed I was at work on my
wheel, with others, in the pottery and putting
vessels in the kiln for burning. Several were
assisting—the work was great." He also men-
tions going with my mother to a potter shop,
and says, “I made a crock upon the wheel—
the first one for nine years.” Those acquainted
with him knew him to be a potter, this was his
favorite trade, and he frequently made use of
the parable as Jesus did. He first learned the
blacksmith trade, when but a boy in the State
of Vermont, which business he carried on in
the winter and the pottery during the warm
weather. Both were very profitable trades
and would have made him a wealthy man, but
instead he willingly gave his time and tal-
ents towards the great work of building up our
Father’s Kingdom.
	He gives the following account of their,
April Conference in 1845, which was held, after
the first day, in one of the valleys a little south
of the Temple, the weather being very windy
and dusty:
	"April 6th. The Saints convened at ten
o’clock at the stand, being fifteen years since
the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ

[second column]

of Latter-day Saints, and there are one-third
more people now than there ever were before
at any conference since the Church began.	*
I called the meeting to order and offered
prayer.	B. Young preached on the subject of
baptism for the dead.	*	*	*	We met
at two o’clock—two acres were covered as
thick as they could stand—four on a square
yard—reckoned to be twenty thousand Saints.
Meeting opened by O. Hyde; then the little
children were blessed. We came to a close at
jive in the afternoon. The wind blew hard
and very dusty."
	“Monday, 7th. Met at ten o’clock in a val-
ley among the hills. Spent the forenoon talk-
ing about the Temple and Nauvoo House. In
the afternoon the revelation on the Nauvoo
House and tithing was read by Elder O. Pratt,
then Elder B. Young spoke.” 	*	*	*
"April 8th.	*	*	I spoke one hour in
the morning—Elder B. Young filled up the
time.	The afternoon was occupied by B.
Young and O. Hyde. At five o’clock the con-
ference adjourned till next October. All went
off well.”
	On the evening of the 9th, he mentions be-
ing at the Concert Hall and enjoying the beau-
tiful singing and music, etc. At a meeting
held the next evening he speaks of G. J.
Adams and Samuel Branson being cut off
from the Church for bad conduct, also about
getting the Masonic Hall for a printing office.
“This lodge,” he says, “was organized on the
15th day of March, 1842, with forty members.
Joseph Smith was made a Mason on the same
evening, Abraham Jones was present and
acted as Master. The first night he (Joseph)
took the first and second degree, the next
night took the third degree.” The following I
copy from his largest journal:
	“Joseph and Hyrum Smith were Master
Masons, yet they were massacred through the
instrumentality of some of the leading men of
hat fraternity through the States.	*	*
Although bound under the strongest obliga-
tions to be true and faithful to each other in
every case and under every circumstance, the
commission of crime excepted.”
	There is no denying that there were some
mean and disreputable characters among us,
the same as are found in all other commnni-
ties, and those who (Judas like) sought to
wind themselves into the good graces of both
parties; and according to Jesus’ words the net
was to gather of all kinds; but those who have
not already met their just rewards, will in due
time, let him be “Mormon,” Gentile or Jew,
or whatever name they may be called by, each
one will be made to answer for his or her own
sins, whatever crime they may have committed
it will return four-fold upon their own heads.
	It seems it was the 12th of the following
month that my father and several of his breth-
ren found it necessary to conceal themselves to
escape the clutches of their enemies who came
there to serve their writs. Father, B. Young
and W. Richards went to the house of Bishop
Edward Hunter that day with the Church
History and hid, in the same upper room where
Joseph had previously been concealed. W.
Richards was then sick with the chills and
fever, and President Young’s health was also
quite poor. Father wrote the morning follow-
ing, "Had a good night’s rest, B. Young
dreamed of seeing a vessel blown on to dry
land—I dreamt of saying some persons from
being drowned.	*	*	At nine o’clock G.
A. Smith came to us.	*	*	 Read history
all day, taking turns. When it came night B.
Young and I went home.	Found my family
well, but lonesome.	Returned the same night
to onr lodging.”	14th he wrote, “Elder Rich-
ards better, but B. Young quite poorly; the
day wet and chilly.	*	*	*	Wrote a
line to my wife, who came and took dinner
with us, had a good visit.	*	*	"15th.

[third column]

Last night I dreamed I saw many serpents--
they jumped at me, but‘did not bite.” At four
o’clock in the morning Joseph Kingsbury took
him in his buggy to Aaron Farr’s.
	This place was a mile or two from the city,
on the edge of a thick wood, where he staid
that day. My mother went in the afternoon
with Sanih Kingsbury to see him. He wrote
that he went into the forest twice to pray the
second time accompanied by my mother. They
left in the edge of the evening—he to meet
with the Holy Order at W. Richards’—from
there he came home, then went back to Bishop
Hunter’s."
	On the; 19th, he says,	*	*	Vilate with
Sarah Ann Kingsbury took me in a buggy to
Brother Robert Pierce’s, where I found Brig-
ham Young, John Taylor and George A. Smith.
We rested all day and felt refreshed—received
great kindness from sister Pierce and her two
daughters, Mary and Margerete; may the
Lord bless them with peace and plenty. After
dark went through the city disguised—saw
many of the Saints, but they knew me not;
went home where I found my wife Vilate, and
all well but lonesome—went back to my lodg-
ing at eleven—almost as light as day.”
	Next day he wrote that Willard Richards’
came there with the Church History. “About
ten o’clock in the morning (he says) my dear
Vilate came to see me with Sister Sarah Ann
Kingsbury.	*	*	*	They left	in one
hour, and my daughter came, and Sarah Ann
with her, and they took lunch with us at two
o’clock.”
	This visit at Brother Pierce’s I remember
very well. Several of the Apostles were pres-
ent that day, and we spent a very agreable
afternoon in conversation, while some were
engaged reading history, and we had some
good singing. Brother Taylor sang “The Up-
per Call,” composed by himself. We left at
dusk, after which father wrote in his journal:
Oh Lord, bless my dear wife and children, that
they may all be righteous from the oldest to
the youngest, and all live till they become old.”
	He came home and staid that night, but was
called up at three in the morning and went to
the trustee’s office, where he remained through
the day.
	“In the evening (he says) I rode down with
Bishop Whitney to administer to his wife and
two children, and Julia Durphy, who was work-
ing for them—they were very sick.”  A few
days after this my mother was taken sick with
chills and fever, and father could only come to
see her at night. It was three weeks before
they could meet with the Saints, and this
course they were compelled to take much of
the time, while they were builling and perlorm-
ing the work In the House of the Lord.
	Our persecuters and the murderers of the
Prophet and Patriarch supposed when they
were killed, that this act would be the death
blow to,Mormonism, but when finding out their
mistake, and that the Saints did not resent it as
they expected them to, they commenced the
same course towards the Apostles, to whom
Joseph had delivered the Keys of the Kingdom.
But knowing themselves to be innocent, and
that they would be treated in a similar manner,
having proven how much justice there was to
be found in the United States for “Mormons;”
they had no notion of putting themselves into
the power of blood-thirsty men to be placed in
chains and dungeons, for this would have
brought a dead standstill to the work upon the
Temple.
	Had not this people (as a rule) been the
most honest and sincere followers of Christ,
and willing to he led and controled in the Holy
order of the priesthood, and governed by prin-
ciples which were continually being taught and
impressed upon their minds by wiser heads,
more (I believe) would have been driven to
desperation, and long ago have attempted to


deal out retribution in their own way, as did
John D. Lee and his gang. But they were not
walking in obedience, and were entirely void
of the Holy spirit, or they could never have
committed so cruel and cowardly an act—tak-
ing advantage of that time and opportunity to
wreak vengence upon a small company of emi-
grants, although the latter were heard cursing
and threatening as they went through the
settlements, and boasting of what they had
done to the "Mormons" in Missouri, and what
they would do before they left the territory,
still they were not excusable, for they had been
taught better from the beginning, and that they
would never be justified in taking up arms or
to shed blood, except in self defence, but were
to leave all things to Him, who says, "Vengence
is mine, I will repay." They forgot this, just
as the majority of the world do, and allowedtheir
wicked passions to get the upper hand of them,
and united with the wild Indians, who, it is
well known at that time, were extreemly savage
and hostile towards the whites, and had already
caused a great amount of trouble and expense
to this people, who, it should be remembered,
were not allowed to live anywhere else within
our country's domains, but among the mur-
derous and treacherous savages, and we are not
indebted for our own lives to any effort or
assistance rendered us by Uncle Sam. But
these things are never taken into consideration
by those who cry treason and harp upon the
worn out tales of crimes which were never com-
mitted nor sanctioned by the Latter-day Saints,
for if they had it would have sealed their eter-
nal damnation, and for such we know there is
no redemption. At the same time our over
righteous accusers would rejoice could they
but get the power and opportunity to wipe us
out of existence, and they are the ones who
boast so loudly of their own spotless purlty, of
their superior wisdom, and of their great and
enlghtened Christianity. But thank God that
we are separated from such, and that we have
higher and more exalted aims than persecuting,
fighting and shedding the blood of our fellow
beings, because they will not believe nor be
governed by the "same religious" views that we
are, and that He has brought us out from
among them, and helped us to colonize this
desert land, and redeem it from its barrenness,
making it to  blossom as the rose, and that the
honest in heart are being gathered here from
every nation, kindred, tongue and people, as
Jesus declared they should be, through the in-
strumentallity of His servants, who have been
obedient to his command to go forth into the
world without purse or scrip etc., and that we
can stand up boldly and proclaim to the world
our innocence, and that we have kept ourselves
freer from crime and corruption than have any
other sect or society in the known world. Why,
we ask, in the name of conscience should not
the priests and leaders of other denominations
be made answerable for all the lawlessness and 
crimnal acts that are committed by church
members, and be brought before courts and im-
prisoned for the same, as they have sought con-
tinually to do by the authorities of the Church
of Latter-day Saints? This is something that
few stop to reflect upon, and a question which
fewer, I think, would be willing to answer; but
we do not envy them, for when we are brought 
face to face in the presence of Zion’s King,
they will then learn to their own dismay that 
in persecuting us they have been warring
against their Great and only Redeemer.
		To be Continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	7


Woman as an Inventor, by Matilda Joslyn
Gage, published in the North American Review,
is a very ably written article. Mrs. Gage is one
of the most powerful speakers and intelligent
advocated of suffrage for women in the United
States.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

	RICHFIELD.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Report of R. S. conference of Sevier Stake
of Zion, held at Richfield, March 17th, 1883,
at ten a.m., Sister Elizabeth Bean presiding.
Singing. Prayer by A. K. Thurber. Singing.
Minutes and report of previous conference read
and accepted. Sister Bean made a few open-
ing remarks pertaining to our religion etc.
Seven branch Societies were reported as doing
well, being in a prosperous condition consider-
ing their circumstances. Sister T. Thurber
spoke of her visit among relatives and of doing
her work in the Temple, of the heavenly spirit
therein; bore a faithful testimony to the truth
of the Latter-day work. Sister Tyler, of Beaver, 
who is helping her husband in canvassing for
the History of the Mormon Battalion spoke;
mentioned that this, the 17th of March, was
the aniversary of the first organization of the
Relief Society, effected by Joseph Smith, in
Nauvoo, Ill. and said there was a great im-
provement manifest. Brother Thurber en-
couraged the societies, and said they were a
great help to the Bishops and Presidents; said
we must give God the praise for our progress.
Conference adjourned to two p.m. Singing.
Prayer by Bishop J. Wright.
	Afternoon session. Singing. Prayer by
President F. Spencer. Singing. Verbal re-
ports of six more Societies were given.
	Sister Bean, President Spencer, Bishop
Wright and Sister Heywood encouraged and
praised the sisters of the Relief Societies for
the good they had done; exhorted them to re-
main faithful and improve in all things. Gave
very good instruction and prayed the Lord to
bless us all. Sister Bean announced that Con-
ference would be adjourned till June 15th.
Choir sang, "Oh! my Father, Thou that dwell-
est." Benediction by Bro. Perkins.
	C. A. HUNT, Secretary
	A. L. BEAN, Assistant Secretary.
May 10th, 1883.


MAYDAY PARTY.
		PINE VALLEY, MAY 7TH, 1883.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Tuesday being the first of May the members
of the Primary Association met at the meeting
house with some of their parents, also the Bish-
op and Counselors, and spent a few hours in
singing and reciting. The President, S. M. 
Burgess, her first Counselor and the committee
made the affair a very pleasant one. The Presi-
dent called upon Bishop  F. W. Jones to
make a few remarks, to which he responded,
heartily expressing himself as well pleased
with the entertainment and also thought the
Primary Association was a great benefit in the
training and entertaining of the young. He
was followed by his second Counselor Wil-
liam Gardner, who spoke very encouragingly
to the children. The party then partook of a 
bounteous repast and all tendered their heart-
felt thanks to those who had labored so assidu-
ously to make their affair a pleasant one. Danc-
ing then commenced for the children, closing
at seven o'clock.	BENNILLA E. GARDNER,
				Secretary.


THE RIGHI.
				ZURICH, Oct. 15th, 1882.
	A few hours rest, a few good-byes to the
pleasant friends we had met in Lucerne, and
we descended from our eyrie at Pension Suter,
"lingering and loth to depart."
	We had been waiting for the right day for
the Righi. Pilatus gave his assent-rather

[Column 2]
doubtfully, to be sure-but he had not given
any party a "good send off" for weeks. The
sun was shining, the air delicious, and we made
the most of his august permission-made our
last trip on Lake Lucerne, wondering anew at
its beauty.
	The Helvetia lands us at Vitznan. We ex-
amine our surroundings with no little interest
as we step on shore. We find the Righi to be
a group of mountains instead of a single one,
though to the traveler the name will generally
attach itself to the northern peak only. It was-
at first known as the "Righi Weid," or the 
pasture of the Righi. A little chapel of "Our
Lady" was erected here early in the seven-
teenth century for the use of the herdsman.
After that it was frequented by pilgrims. In
our own times it has grown greatly in favor
with tourists, and in 1873 the cog-wheel rail-
road to the Kulm was finished. The cars
themselves are not very unlike our open city
cars, except that each entrance is made more
safe by a low door. The engine is always be-
low the car, on either its up or down trip. We
examined its construction of train and road
and then committed ourselves to them without
trepidation. We were slowly lifted upward.
	The lake gradually sank below us as we
wound our singular way toward the clouds.
The higher we went the broader our view.
One mountain after another came in sight.
The dark old Burgenstock was the first to
make its appearance, rising from the opposite
bank; After that the Stauserhorn and Pilatus.
We cast many a parting look at Lucerne, away
in the distance, as we took this upward journey.
The Alps of Uri soon drew our attention.
Engleberg and the Bernese Oberland showed
us their glory as we went on. Then the
clouds wrapped themselves around us, lest we
were unable to endure so much at once.
	When we reached the highest station the fog
was so dense we were unable to see ten feet be-
yond us. Only a short distance below, the
views had been perfect. We knew the sun
was shining on the friends we had left in Lu-
cerne. Here on this mountain top we were cold
and damp-isolated from the world, it would
seem. We were not in the least disheartened.
We had watched this same mountain too often
to lose faith in it so soon. More than once
we had seen it put on a silver cap for afternoon
wear and afterward stand uncovered at the
setting of the sun.
	We let the train go down without us, and
groped around in the mist, and found on this
mountain peak friends whom we had not seen
in many months. We would be forearmed for
any possible change in the weather, so ordered
an early, simple meal. Delicious tea and
juicy, tender chops were served us here in the
clouds as daintily as we desired.
	The ascent had been made in less time than
we had expected and had not been as impres-
sive as that of Mt. Washington, which we had
accomplished some years before. We have
been told this railway has the steeper grade.
We doubt it, but we have no data by us to
verify our impression. We have here no such
sterile regions to pass over as we find in the
White Mountains. The softer features of this
landscape may take from the apparent height
of the different reaches of the grade. At all
events we are not so overawed as we were in
climbing our own giant.
	Many of those who came up when we did,
went back disheartened; our own faith had its
full reward. As the hour neared for the going
down of the sun we gathered our wraps about
us, and walked up through the damp, impene-
trable mists to the summit, only a short climb
above us. It seemed a forlorn hope that stimul-
lated us to make the effort, but the light did
appear to be stronger. How anxiously we
counted the minutes. Every few seconds one
or the other would say, "The clouds are break-


ing up." Then as we looked, it grew darker.
At last the sun! It was our supreme moment—
a moment in which hours seemed condensed.
Then the glory was withdrawn. Our eyes were
mortal. The clouds wrapped themselves close
about us; our senses grew acute, and we waited
as Moses might have waited at Pisgah. In-
visible hands parted the great curtains hung
round about us, and below us lay the promised
land; not all at once; a view here, which our
eyes drank in all eagerly, as the huge clouds
shut it out of sight again; then as this faded
out, our eyes would be drawn to a new vision
of beauty as the mists rolled themselves away
in some other direction. No words can tell the
rapid changes of that strange panorama, as we
stood and waited, spell-bound, for its unveiling.
Mountain and stream and valley lay like jewels
far below as it was given us to see them. Some-
times our eyes could follow the precipitous
sides of the mountain down to its very base,
where nestles Lake Lucerne—many-armed Lu-
cerne, with its natural battlements enfolding it
so securely, fastened our attention as the mists
were swept aside and we might look down into
its far-away depths. The almond trees were,
no doubt, blooming below, but they had dwin-
dled to tiny plants. So we watched and waited
for each coming picture. At last the clouds
settled, a shining mass not far below us, and the
silvery screen shut out the lower world. For
once we were above the earth, earthy, on this
mount of transfiguration. The clouds were
rolling beneath our feet, while the very heavens
seemed opening before us. As we looked, the
sunlight broke out clear and strong over the
snowy tops of the higher Alps, which were
gradually coming into sight. The Sentis in the
east was the first of its chain to rivet our atten-
tion. The Blaskenstock and the Uri Rothstock
exposed their glaciers; the Bernese Alps stood
up in their grandeur. We turned a longing
glance towards the Jungfrau and Pilatus. Then
the mountains were all swept away from us
again. Like Noah and the little group about
him we only seemed left of all God's children.
The sun was going down. No words can tell
what passed before our eyes in the minutes
which followed. The mists gathered in never
ending changes, to break up and roll back as
they advanced upon the sun, gyrating in un-
ceasing motion, of all imgained hues.

	And beneath us an ocean of mist, where our eye
	No longer the dwelling of man can espy,
	Through the parting clouds only the earth can be
		seen,
	Far down 'neath the vapor the meadows so green.

	All that was natural and familiar was at last
obscured. The changing lights and shades
gathered again and again, then broke and scat-
tered into fragments, as the greater glory of
the sun broke through their lesser light. "The 
heavens had declared the glory of God." As
the time passed on, great streaks of gleaming
gold and purple gathered in the western sky,
till at last the whole seemed one sea of gor-
geous light. Then the shadows darkened, and 
the vision faded.	RUTH RANDOM.
—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE MORAL VICTORY.

	We have received from ladies interested in
woman's elevation and emancipation in Lon-
don, with whom we exchange papers, several
pamphlets contaiaing all the particulars and
speeches in the Parliament on the repeal of
the Contagious Diseases' Acts. The vote in
the English Parliament to abolish the compul-
sory examination of women under said act, on
April 20th ult., is considered by those ac-
quainted with the subject to be a great moral
victory. It was gained by the able general-
ship of Mr. Stansfield, inspired and supported


by the steady, indomitable work of women.
A steadily increasing number of intelligent
women have been and are still laboring to bet-
ter the condition of their sex, and this is one
of the victories achieved.


DORE'S LAST WORK—The greatest works of
M. Dore's of which there has been any mention
are "Ecce Homo" and "The Ascension," two
immense pictures added to his gallery of levia-
thans; illustrations to Shakespeare, and a pic-
ture called "The Tortured Soul." This was
apparently his very last canvas, and the follow-
ing detailed description of it will therefore be
of interest: The picture represents a young
monk seated before an organ in the choir of the
Gothic Church. His fingers stray over the
keys, while his attenuated countenance and
great, hollow dark eyes are turned toward the
spectator. The church below is thronged with
white-robed monks like himself, some of them
bearing lighted tapers, while the painted win-
dows overhead glow jewel-like in the gloom be-
hind the altar. At the young organist's side,
amid the sunny light that streams through the
arched windows, stands a female form. vague,
vaporous, and beautiful as white mist amid the
golden rays. It is the vision of his lost love
that haunts the youthful ascetic, the embodied
remembrance of the woman for whose sake he
sought refuge in a cloister.


MRS. ELLLIS R. SHIPP, M.D.
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
	Office and residence. 11th Ward, 7 blocks east
of the Deseret National Bank, and a half
block north, west side of the street.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
	OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.
KNITTING FACTORY,
	On 1st W. St, Bst. 21 and 31 W. Next Door South of W. H. Hooper's 
Men's Socks, Ladies' and Childrens' Stockings, Infants
	Knitted Shirts and Shoes, Ladies' and Children's Hoods,
etc. Family Knitting done on Reasonable Terms.
CAROLINE C. RALEIGH,
19th WARD, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH .

A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets, 	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,	Wool Batting,
Shawls,	Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Limeys,	Cassimere,	Washboards,
Jeans,	Tweeds,	Brushes, Etc, Etc.

MRS. ROMANIA R. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE	IN GODBE. PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AKD DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence.

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short  notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, David Jamaes, Box 306, Salt Lake City.
		ELLEN B. FURGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
Office and Residence on 2d South between Sd
and 4d East Streets.
Special Study has been given to SURGERY, DISEASES 
OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS.
Can be Called by Telephone Day or Night.
			ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z. C. M. I. 
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUS AND CHEMICALS 
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
WW. JENNINGS, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S 
Will be found the latest styles and productions
 in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
	DRY GOODS.
	Special departments for the Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes. 
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.
	HENRY DINWOODEY.
FURNITURE,
		WALL PAPER,
	CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUINS 
AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY.
FAuerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
			MILLINERY.
	Spring and Summer Goods,
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS>
CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 12.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 15, 1883.	NO. 2.


JOYFUL JUNE. 

Gone, the chilly wintry blast;
Gone, the hours so over-cast;
Sunnier days have dawn'd at last—
	Long'd for, look'd for boon.
Loveliest skies! by mortal's seen—
Flowers and fruits and grasses green—
Greety thy coming, beauteous queen
	Of summer, joyful June! 

Rip'ling streams and murmuring trees,
Weird and mystic harmonies,
Sights and sounds, that well might ease,
	Or cure much fancied woe.
Like an inspirational voice—
Nature [-] bids us all rejoice,
Free to all, her blessings choice,
As is the sunshine's glow.

On the evil, on the good,
Nature's generous gifts are strew'd;
Shall we mar her happiest mood,
	And turn from joy away?
What tho' petty griefs and care—
'Tis the lot of all to bear—
Is it meet to woo despair
	Upon a summer's day?

Pity all, whose griefs too great—
All, so bowed by sorrow's weight—
All, too sadly desolate
	To join in nature's glee;
Who cannot swell Creation's shout,
Who cannot trust as well as doubt,
That He, who calls such beauty out
	To cheer us, hears our plea.

'Tis as well we cannot read
All the quivering hearts that bleed,
Tenderest souls would sink indeed,
	O'erwhelmed by others woe,
'Tis as well we cannot see
All existing misery,
Otherwise, nor you, nor me,
	Would rest or comfort know

Not to mortals is it given 
To assume the tasks of heaven. 
Only One! the Saviour even
	All human sorrow bore;
Yet, God's own begotten Son—
Tho' He scorned the cross to shun—
While He cried, "Thy will be done"
	Sweat bitterest drops of gore. 

Still, within the narrowest sphere,
Some there are, both true and near, 
Some, with whom a heartfelt tear
	May indeed be shed;
Some, whose direful need demands
Loving words and helpful hands;
Happy he, who understands
	To lift the drooping head.

Sympathy! thy heaven born might,
Lines the gloomiest clouds with light,
Turning oft to paths of right
	Souls by sorrow bent;
Fate doth hold us so in thrall—
Is it strange some faint and fall
Well it is, the Judge of all 
	Looks at the heart's intent.

Wherefore sing so sad a strain?
Hardest lesson learnt, is gain:
Life is short, and brief its pain;
	Rest will come full soon;
Fairest chances fly away,
Why not use them while we may?
Tho' we cannot bid thee stay—
	Thrice welcome, joyful June!

	EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
Salt Lake City, June 5th, 1883.


FEED MY LAMBS.

	As a testimony of the love of Peter for Jesus
He required him to feed His lambs, to feed
them with the bread of life, to lead them in
pleasant places and to fountains of living
waters, whose springs should never fail. It is
pleasant to read the life of Jesus, our Great
Shepherd, to partake of the sweet spirit which
accompanies it; brief as is the record, we have
to picture in our minds the varied scenes
through which he passed from his manger
cradle to his ascension to the Father, and
sometimes they feel so real and so near that we
seem to be passing through them, and can
scarcely believe that almost two thousand
years have passed away since those scenes
were enacted that tell of the birth, the death,
the resurrection, and that also tell of the sec-
ond coming of the Savior of our earth, its
King and Law-giver. And those who loved
and followed him through those brief years of
his earthly sojourn, how near they seem to us
at times. We can see the look of pain upon
Peter's face when Jesus, for the third time,
asked him, "Lovest thou me?" and hear the
almost impatient or grieved answer, "Yea,
Lord, thou knowest that I love thee," and hear
His mild but firm command, "Feed my
lambs." And who has not pictured to them-
selves most vividly the scene of Christ's ser-
mon on the Mount, that sermon that contains
lessons that in all the years allotted to man on
earth is still unlearned, not comprehended, not
practised by His children; and when we see
how far short we come of living that which
was taught on the Mount,—how far we wander
from the paths there marked out, well may the
heart grow faint, and feel that our efforts are
vain if that high standard must be attained
ere we can gain His presence. But He has
walked the stony paths of life, has felt the
weakness and pains of mortality, and He is
merciful.
	Christ is our great shepherd, but He has
many under him, for He has many lambs to
feed, and many to gather into the fold and to
shield from the wolves that are thirsting for
their blood; there is work for all who have
taken the name of Christ, there are hungry
and thirsty souls to care for, to feed with the
food that perisheth and with the bread of
eternal life; there are sore and bleeding hearts
to be comforted, and weak and weary ones to
be helped along in the journey of life; the
command to Peter has been given again to the
servants of God to-day: "Feed my lambs."
	HOPE.


[Column 1]

SCENES IN NAUVOO, AND INCIDENTS
FROM H. C. KIMBALL'S JOURNAL.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	In the words of Sister Bathsheba Smith, in 
"The Women of Mormondom." "The Fall of
1845 found Nauvoo as it were, one vast mechan-
ic shop, as nearly every family was engaged in
making wagons," and all seemed cheerful while
preparing for the general move to the Rocky
Mountains. There were many intelligent and
active young men who chose to be adopted in-
to different families of the Apostles and Patri-
archs. Among the ones adopted to my father

[Column 2]

were two splended carpenters, Hosea Cushing
and William King, who, with Brother George
Wallace, had been employed to do the carpen-
ter work on our house. They were all three
from Boston. There were three sailors, natives
of Denmark, who came into our family; they
were the first that we had ever seen from that
land, and were something of a curiousity. Hans
C. Hanson, Peter O. Hanson and John Fors-
green were their names—all but the latter and
William King have remained true to the Gos-
pel. So we were well provided with mechanics
and tent makers. Father wrote the following:
"While working in the Temple, Brother Hans
Christian Hanson (a Dane) is our door keeper
and fireman—his brother, Peter Olson, is trans-
lating the Book of Mormon—two thirds
through." The south wing of our house was
turned into a work shop, and nights was occu-
pied by the brethren, who stood guard there
through the winter. The pleasure of having
John Kay and Howard Egan come (who were
stationed there at Brigham Young's through a 
portion of the winter) was always anticipated
by the young people. They were very enter-
taining—Egan with his interesting yarns and
anecdotes, and the singing by John Kay it
would be useless for us to try to describe, but,
suffice it to say, his voice (a baritone) was most
magnificent, and his songs and the style in
which he sang them surpassed anything that we
are accustomed to hearing nowadays; and many
an evening we were thus entertained, as we
circled around the "ingle side," and the hours
flew by so swiftly that midnight was often
there before we knew it. During the summer
previous, John Kay had been in the practice
of standing guard the forepart of the night at
the house of President Young, and often at
evening when the moon shone brightly, Wil-
liam would hitch the horses to our large car-
riage, in which a dozen could easily ride, and
Vilate Young, the President's daughter, being
among the number, we would often call and
take in John Kay, and drive for an hour or
more around the same block, for the sake of
keeping him with us, and each time would
drive closely to the President's gate, to satisfy
him that all was right. The young people
were incapable of feeling the weight which
rested upon our fathers and mothers.
	"November 12th. Last evening I dreamed
of seeing a large quantity of honey bees—they
were peacably inclined." Thus wrote my
father, who was what might be termed a 
dreamer, and of them he makes frequent men-
tion in his journal. His new brick house (it
seems) was finished that day, as he wrote,
"Brother Nichols and Brown came to paint
my house—made a finish of the same, which
makes a completion inside and out, and for
which I feel thankful to my Heavenly Father."
As soon as the house was finished my brother
with his wife and child, moved in with us so
that his place could be disposed of. The spirit
of mobocracy reigned throughout the country,
and they were continually committing depre-
dations upon the Saints in the ourskirts of the
city, and in small settlements. My father
mentions the house of a Brother Rice being
burnt, on the 12th, and says, "thirty men were
engaged in it." "On the night of the 15th,
Brother Edmund Durphy was shot by a mob,
at Lima, and was brought into our city on Sun-
day, the 16th."	* * * "J. B.
Backenstos came in and gave us the particu-
lars of the death of Brother Durphy." On


[Column 1]
the  17th, he wrote, "Egan and Lathrop got
home from St. Louis,   *     *      were hunted
by enemies at every point."
	On the 21st he mentions a sheriff by the
name of Stigall coming there for Brother Fel-
lers, "because (he says) Brother Fellers drove
off his own cattle--this is wonderful." "At
seven in the evening     *         *       Backen-
stos came in and said that Major Warren
swore if the Anties would not help him bring
those men who killed Durphy to justice he
would leave the county, and wanted Backen-
stoes to go for them with his forces."
	On the 24th, he wrote, "The painters are
putting on the last coast of paint in the upper
rooms of the Temple. Two stoves were put
up in the largest room, and they were cleaning
out the upper part. The font is going on--
several of the oxen done--the horns are on."
	"25th, I with Brigham Young and George
A. Smith spent the forenoon in raising money
for the purpose of sending to St. Louis to get
iron--also clothing for the Temple hands as
they are suffering much for the want of the
same. We raised some money to send to
St. Louis by Hiram Kimball.  *     *   "At
two o'clock I went to Bishop Millers, to the
wedding of his son Joshua. My wife and son
William and daughter Helen went with me.
President B. Young and Bishop Whitney and
families were present.       *              *   About
sixty persons took dinner--had good music and
a splendid time." I remember this occasion
and can add my testimony to his of the agree-
able time we spent. About this time a letter
was received by Brother Lewis Robbins, from
William Smith, which, father said "was read
in counsel--it was filled with wrath against the
Twelve." A few days later news came that
William Smith and George J. Adams were
treasoners. Those two men were guilty of
treason, and were inspired by the father of lies
and sought revenge for nothing only because
their own wickedness and corruption had been
brought to light, the same as do all other dis-
honest apostates, who seek vainly to bring des-
truction upon the Holy Priesthood, and those
whome they have withdrawn from; but they only
destroy themselves, by becoming the instru-
ments of his Satanic majesty, who knows as 
well as we "that the salvation of God is sent
unto the Gentiles and that they will hear it."
	On the 27th of November, father wrote,
Silas Haight and Halkins Taylor came into
our city to take some of the brethren prisoners,
being authorised by the United States."
	"On the 28th they left the city, (father said)
in answer to prayer, thank the Lord our God."
	He wrote, "Saturday, the 29th, carpets were
laid down in the attic story of the Temple.
They were sent by different ones for the pur-
pose.     *                    * My wife Vilate,
Sister E. A. Whitney and her daughter Sarah
and Sister Bathsheba Smith came to assist us.
President B. Young, H. C. Kimball, O. Hyde,
P. P. Pratt, G. A. Smith, O. Spencer, L.
Woodworth, G. Miller, W. W. Phelps. L. Rich-
ards and A. P. Rockwood were present, and
at evening we all went into the room of B.
Young, which is the southeast corner, and
bowed ourselves before the Lord, and gave
Him thanks for his goodness unto us in spar-
ing our lives to finish this house, and for many
other blessings received."
	"Sunday, the 30th, I and the others of the
Twelve and about twenty brethren in all,
clothed and offered up the dedication prayer
of the upper rooms."
	"December 1st, A. W. Babbit got home
from Detroit, where he had been on a mission
to the Catholic's. The tidings are good and
cheering--said some of them would be here in
a few days to rent some of our public buildings.
On the 2nd they received a letter from a com-

[Column 2]
pany in Philadelphia, wishing to purchase our
city. The letter was written at Bloomington."
	The following he wrote: "December 5th, at
half past eleven my wife and daughter, Sister
Whitney and daughter Sarah came to the 
Temple for the purpose of doing some dewing.
*         *           *  They commenced working at
twelve o'clock, at the ringing of the Temple
bell.		*	*	*	Sister Mary Anne
Young, wife of President Young, came at two
in the afternoon."
	I remember this circumstance, and that we
sat in father's room, next to B. Young's, who,
with his brother (Uncle Joseph) came in and
sang some hymns--Sister Young assisting them.
Uncle Joseph sang "The Upper California,"
and the rest joined in the chorus. "At four
o'clock (he says) Sister Vilate, Sister Whitney,
Sarah Ann and Helen left; I went with them
to Brother Kingsbury's; took dinner--from
thence they returned home, and I to the Tem-
ple.  In another place is the following: "At
three o'clock William brought his wife, my
daughter Helen and Marry Anne Sheflin (father's
wife) up into the attic of the Temple; I took
them through all the rooms--from where they
went into the top of the tower. After
dark they came to see me in my room; I bowed
with them before the Lord and called upon 
him and asked his blessing upon our heads and
thanked him that He had given us this privi-
lege."
	On Saturday, the 6th, everything was com-
pleted in the attic story of the Temple, and
father wrote, "Peace dwells here in the house
of the Lord. We all feel to rejoice before the
Lord, that he in his kind providence has per-
mitted his servnts to finish the attic. *     *
When we left the room we asked the Lord to
bless Israel, and hold us in safety till we could
give some of his faithful Elders their endow-
ments." On Sunday all of the holy order were
to assemble there. "This (father said) is the 
advice of President B. Young, and our wives
will come and partake with us--the Sacrament
will be administered--thsi gives them great
joy."
	"Sunday, 7th, snow falling--the weather
mild--     *     * went to David Fulmer's and
sealed two women to him for time and eternity.
gave some counsel, and then returned to the
Temple, where I found my wife Vilate, Bishop
Whitney and his wife." Present were the follow-
ing persons, which father says, "are members
of the Holy Order of the Holy Priesthood,
hving received it in the life time of Joseph
and Hyrum Smith, the Prophet and Patriarch:
President B. Young, Mary Ann Young, H. C. 
Kimball, Vilate Kimball, O. Hyde, Marinda N.
Hyde, Parley P. Pratt, Mary Ann Pratt, John
Taylor Leonora Taylor, G. A. Smith,
Bathsheba Smith and Willard Rich
ards, High Priests and their wives, John
and Clarisa Smith, Alpheus and Loris
Cutler, Reynolds and Thirza Cahoon, Newel
K. and Elizabeth Ann Whitney, Cornelius
and Permilla Lot, Isaac and Lucy Morley, Orson
and Catharine Spencer, George and Mary Mil-
ler, Joseph Young, Levi Richards, William
Clayton, Joseph Fielding and his sister Mary
Smith, Sister Mercy R. Thompson, Agnes
Smith (Carlos Smith's widow,) Joseph Kings-
bury, John Bernhisel, W. W. and Sally Phelps,
Lucian and Phebe Woodworth. Forty-two per-
sons present. We clothed and commenced our
meeting at two o'clock with prayer by Joseph
Fielding; sang a hymn, and Elder John Taylor
spoke a short time; then H. C. Kimball spoke;
Elder B. Young was sick and had to retire to
his room and lay down on his couch. Elder
O. Hyde gave a short exhortation. After he
closed a hymn was sung; then H. C. Kimball
and Bishop N. K. Whitney broke bread, which
was blessed by H. C. Kimball. Elder B. 
Young came in and partook with us. Wine was
blessed by Joseph Young and carried around

[Column 3]
by N. K. Whitney; we had singing while it
was passing around. Then P. P Pratt arose
and spoke, and W. W. Phelps spoke--great
solemnity rested upon the brethren and sisters;
great union in our meeting.     *     *    * John
Smith (the Patriarch) spoke a short time, then
Elder B. Young said, this quorom should meet
here every Sabbath and partake of the Sacra-
ment. They gave us good counsel     *     *
all went home in good spirits." 
			To be Continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE SUFFRAGE FESTIVAL.

BOSTON.

	So popular is the Suffrage Festival and
Banquet which the New England Woman Suf-
frage Association shares with the Massachu-
setts Association on anniversary week, that the
tickets were all sold, long before the festal day
arrived. But the demand for tickets contin-
ued to such an extent that two additional
tables were set in the chapel adjoining the
Meionaon to accommodate the demand, and
still other tickets were sold for seats in the
gallery. The tables and the platform were
beautifully decorated with flowers. It was a
pleasant sight to see the long row of suffragists
having a pleasant social time at the tables so
well spread by the excellent caterer, Harvey
Blunt, and released, for a little while, from the
constant uphill road over which all reform has
to be carried.
	Mrs. Julia Ward Howe presided. Aronnd
her on the platform were invited guests, and
some of the oldest of the suffragists, Hon.
Thomas Russell being on her right, with James
Freeman Clarke, Mr. and Mrs. Livermore,
and Miss Freeman. On her left were Mrs.
Elizabeth B. Chace, Lucy Stone, Henry B.
Blackwell, Mrs. Clara Neyman, Mrs. Anna
Garlin and Rev. William Spencer. Mrs.
Howe always requires a song before meat, and
a suffrage "Song of Freedom" was sung, all
joining. After supper, Mrs. Howe made the
opening speech, and announced the toasts with
grace and wit, as she introduced the speakers.
	The first toast was "The Golden Rule in
Politics," responded to by Rev. James Free-
man Clarke, which was followed by "Fair
Play," Mrs. Julia Ward Howe; "Good Resolu-
tions," Hon. Thomas Russell; "Liberty and 
Love," a poem by Martha P. Lowe; "The
Woman's Hour has Struck," Mr. Charles H.
Codman; "The Age of Chivalry," Mrs. Clara
Neyman; "Woman as a Reserve Force," Mrs.
Mary A. Livermore; "Signs of the Times,"
Mrs. Lucy Stone; "Women in Universities,"
Miss Eva Channing; "The Commonwealth,"
Hon. Charles W. Slack; "Strong-Minded
Women," Anna Garlin Spencer; "Our Ene-
mies," Miss Mary F. Eastman; "The Sympa-
thy of Reforms," Rev. Frederic A. Hinckley;
"The Granite State," Mrs. Armenia S. White.
The speaking was interspersed with music,
Gaspard Maeder Jr., playing two fine violin
solos, accompanied by Mrs. Gaspard Maeder.
Mrs. Flora E. Barry with inimitable grace
sang "The Arrow and the Song," A Lullaby,
and "John Anderson, My Jo." The Festival
is indebted to Mrs. S. C. Vogl for procuring
music, which was an added grace, to Mrs. S.
E. Laselle for her accompaniments and to Mrs. S.
E. Laselle for her accompaniments and to Mr.
McPhail for the use of a fine upright piano.
But the feast of toasts and speeches was left in
part unsaid. The time was too short. Mrs.
C. M. Severance, Miss Frances H. Turner,
Rev. William H. Spencer, Dr. Mary J. Saf-
ford, and ever so many more keep their good
words for next time. The exercises came to a
close after a fine quotation from John G.
Whittier given by H. B. Blackwell, with
Anld Lang Syne sang in chorus. It was past
ten o'clock when the cars bore this pleasant
company to their homes.	L. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TO P. L. KIMBALL.

I fain would plant one little flower,
	One immortelle for you,
To bloom within affection's bower,
	Dear friend so tried, so true.

Planted in gratitude and love,
	In memory of the past,
And may the light of heaven above
	Guard it unto the last,

That chilling blight may never fall
	To dim its luster bright—
But may it live until the call
	To bloom in realms of light,

Then find a place within the crown,
	Wrought by the hand divine,
To take the place of cross laid down
	At the feet of the Master, Thine.

'Tis enough for you and for me to know
	The links that together bind,
How we found them where bitterly teardrops flow,
	And dark clouds the sunshine blind.

How we found them too in the love of God,
	In the sanctified spirit of peace,
That comes when we meekly pass under the rod
	That is raised for the souls increase.

Then accept my flower though plain it be,
	We will call it the "Love of a heart,"
Brighter and gayer ones you may see,
	But its fragrance will never depart.

	HOPE.


[Column 1]

A VENERABLE WOMAN.

PRESENDIA LATHROP KIMBALL.

[Continued.]
	Whenever the priesthood of God is upon
the earth evil influences are strong in propor-
tion to the outpouring of the Holy Spirit.
Satan is ever on the alert, sly, watchful and
cunning as a serpent. If any duty is omitted,
or any extreme exists not wholly consistent
with the humility and complete obedience of
the doctrines of Christ, any weakness of the
flesh to which all men and women too are lia-
ble, Satan is there ready to step in. The won-
derful manifestations of the power of God as
evinced in the gift of prophecies and the heal-
ing of the sick in Winter Quarters, at the
time the Saints were remaining there for a lit-
tle season, must needs have a corresponding
opposite as powerful for evil as these were for
good. Sister Presendia, alluding to the sub-
ject, says, "The night after we had received
such, blessings at Sister Leonard's my sister Zina
came home with me. After we had retired for
the night we both felt the presence of the des-
troyer at the door, the feeling was beyond ex-
pression. Before morning Brother William
Pitt called me to go to his house, and said his
little girl was dying. I immediately arose, drest
myself, and repaired to the house where the
dying girl lay in the last agonies of death, be-
yond the reach of mortal aid. She died in a
few minutes on my lap." The mortality among
little children was very alarming, yet many
were healed almost as miracuously as being
raised from the dead.
	"Not many days after the circumstance just
mentioned a meeting was held at the house of
Christine and Frances Swan Kimball where
the evil power was again apparent; so strong
was the influence that the spirits were seen and
heard, and they tried to destroy those in the
room by choking them. Sister Laura Kim-
ball and I laid our hands upon five of those so
affected, and rebuked the destroyer in the
name of Jesus. This is one of the instances
wherein the words of the Prophet were ful-
filled, when he said at the time of the organi-
zation of the Relief Society in Nauvoo, "That
the Sisters should have power to cast out
devils, rebuke the powers of darkness and do
many wonderful things." The Sisters felt

[Column 2]

themselves much humbled in spirit, and feared
they had done something wrong that had
grieved the spirit of the Lord. The next day
I had occasion to visit Kanesville and was de-
tained there about a week. During my ab-
sence another meeting had been held at Sister
Vilate Kimball's, and the evil power manifest-
ed itself in various ways. The sisters not feeling
able to cope with the powers of darkness, sent
for Bishop Whitney, and no sooner had he
crossed the threshold than there was a dead
calm. Those who had been most affected with
this mysterious power sank down unable to rise
and seemingly plunged into excessive grief.
Bishop Whitney brought with him on this oc-
casion Elder William H. Kimball, eldest son
of Heber C. Kimball, and they laid their
hands on the afficted ones and rebuked the
powers of darkness and commanded them to de-
part. Bishop Whitney in speaking of it after-
wards said that the sisters were so near the ad-
ministration of angels that the devil stepped
in to hinder the blessings the Lord was willing
to pour out upon his handmaidens." There
were not many brethren left and the sisters
had to assist in many ways, both temporal and
spiritual. It was a time of loneliness, a time of
scarcity, but it was also a time never to be for-
gotten on account of the nearness to the Lord
in which the people lived and trusted.
	The experiences of the people as they jour-
neyed towards the land of promise, the place
of refuge, and sojourned here and there by
the way, for a little season, enduring fatigue,
privation and hardships, without homes, al-
most without shelter, deprived of the blessings
of comfortable food and clothing, can never be
written on the pages of history, except here a
little and there a little; but He who heareth
the young ravens cry, who watcheth the spar-
rows fall, and numbereth the hairs of the head,
has a perfect record kept in a higher court.
	To be Continued.


[Column 1]

LEAF, BUD AND FLOWER.

	What a beautiful subject, and what soul-
thrilling sentiments these simple words sug-
gest.
	"And thy young glories,—leaf and bud and flower,
	Change cometh over them with every hour."
These are the symbols too of earth-life and the
changes that are incident to mortality. So
frail is our hold on life that it is compared to
the flower that dies with the breath of the
summer wind. And yet how secure we some-
times feel, how unmindful of the frailty of hu-
man existence. Though life is full of sweet-
ness, of pleasures even, if we choose the sunny
side. If hope be our guide, and faith the
staff on which we lean, for we needs must have
support and strength or we fail, for even the
sun is sometimes sultry, or the sunshine of pros-
perity, and the heat is often as hard to bear as
the cold or the hard, cold winds of adveristy,
and unless we have faith in God we should
faint by the way. It is not strange to me that
faith is the first principle of true religion, and
indeed we may say it is the very essence of all
religion. When we believe in the reality of
our existence here and look forward, if we are
well armed with living faith, and wear the
shield of sincerity and the helmet of truth we
are ready for any emergency, any conflict
that may arise.
	Leaf and bud and bloom, these are the days
that recall these words, so full of melody and
sweetness. It is in leafy June, jocund, smiling
June that we feel more than ever the presence
of these precious blessings that contribute so
much to the sum of human happiness. What
beauty would there be in life without the
leaf—how would we subsist, and where would
be the completeness of the picture? The ten-

[Column 2]

der leaves, the green leaves, we cannot imag-
ine what summer would be, or what the land-
scape would be without them. They form the
shelter; they are the foilage, the dry, bare
branches would be useless without them, so
would our existence here be homely and un-
bearable without the lovely graces that adorn
human character and protect and shelter the
finer, purer attributes of the soul, that could
never be developed but under some modifying
influence. Sheltered and nurtured by the leaf
and dew, the tender bud is formed and warms
into activity and becomes in time a fair and
graceful thing, giving promise of fuller powers
as time advances, So the human heart, cher-
ished and nourished and stimulated by a high-
er power, working as unseen as that which dis-
penses growth to the tiny leaf and bud, devel-
ops into richness and bloom, and sheds a per-
fume in its full fruition as fragrant as that of
the sweetest rose and more potent than any of
the floral kingdom, for their influence is only
transitory, while that of human character
reaches into eternity, sweetness, gentleness,
charity, kindness and the beautiful at-
mosphere that pervades the highest and
loftiest characters, extending and affecting
those who come under its influence is so lovely
and exalting, that it is something indefinable
by mortal pen.
	Some of the most exquisite emotions of the
human soul have found expression in the atmos-
phere of flowers. Lessons of wisdom may be
learned in the open fields, where the Book of
Nature is opened wide. Lady Flora Hastings
has written some happy lines on this subject.
	"With holy awe I cull the opening flower,
	The hand of God hath made it and where'er
	The flow'ret blooms, there God is present also."
Well may we say that "flowers are holy things,"
and make them symbols of love, of sorrow and
of all the higher attributes, and holier emo-
of the soul.
	The summer, and June more especially,
seems adapted to poetic sentiment. The fresh-
ness of Spring has found its intensity in leafy
June. The water has become clearer, the sky
bluer, the light breeze touches gently the soft
fresh buds and leaflets, and the river winds its
way over the stones, keeping time and tune to
the murmuring trees. Under the branches of
the wide spreading elm, the graceful hemlock
or the shade of the fine beech trees lovers are
wont to find shelter from the piercing rays of
the summer sun; did I say lovers? Well, I
mean lovers of nature, lovers of poetry, and
all that as well, but yet methinks I have heard
too,or have read somewhere in story or in verse,
that when the landscape was beautiful it so en-
hanced the lovers that they clasped hands
and plighted their troth, and the same sweet
poet says, "Then I felt in my heart a new
desire to bring this mouth of mine nearer to
her mouth," but of course this is only in
story, I cannot say if it be real, and yet
why not. for surely June is classical and so is
love. The human heart reaches out after
warmth and tenderness and beauty, God hath
made it so and given us the powers of genu-
ine appreciation which we should cultivate,
and we may safely commune with nature and
grow wiser in a knowledge of the divinity
that forms and fashions and develops life in
all the germs with which the earth is impreg-
nated.	AUNT EM.


IN the EXPONENT of June 1st, under the
heading of Scenes in Nauvoo, etc. by Helen
Mar Whitney, the name of Samuel Brannan
was misprinted and read Branson. All the
early members of the Church would know ,be-
ing acquainted with him and his career, but as
his name has been mentioned of late in the 
Deseret News, it is well for all to know.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	*	*	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $3.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
Housed South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
Publisher Woman’s Exponent,
	Salt Lake City Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY,  -   JUNE 15, 1883.


QUARTERLY CONFERENCE.

RELIEF SOCIETIES OF WEBER STAKE.

	We had the pleasure of attending the confer-
ence in the Ogden Tabernacle, on Friday, June
8th, 1883. There was a large congregation pres-
ent. Mrs. Jane S. Richards, President of the
Society in Weber County, presiding. Mrs. Hat-
tie C. Brown, Mrs. Sarah Herrick, Counselors,
present. Mrs. Monta Harris, Secretary, Mrs.
Emily S. Richards, Mrs. Sarah S. Richards, Mrs.
Emily M. Shurtliff, Mrs. M. Critchlow, Mrs.
Adeline Belnap, Mrs. Mary Bird, Mrs. Martha
Bingham, Mrs. M. A. Wallace, and other officers
of the Societies. Among the gentlemen were
Hon. F. D. Richards, Probate Judge of Weber
County, Hon. L. W. Shurtliff, of the County
Court, Hon. D. H. Peery, Mayor of Ogden City,
Hon. F. S. Richards, member of the Constitu-
tional Delegation of Washington, D. C., Joseph
Hall, Esq., editor of the OGDEN HERALD, W.
G. Child, Esq., senior member of the mercan-
tile house of Child and Son, Bishop Sanford
Bingham, Bishop Robert Gale, Bishop E. Strat-
ford, Superintendent W. R. R. Stowell. There
were also present H. J. Newman, Simon Barker,
Joseph Robinson, William Barker, Samuel Glas-
gow, John Manning, Esqs., and other leading
citizens.
	After the usual exercises of singing and prayer,
short speeches were made by Mrs. Jane S.
Richards, Apostle F. D. Richards and Mayor
Peery; the last gentleman alluding to his visit
to Washington as a member of the Constitution-
al Convention, and his acquaintance with Mrs
Lockwood, the eminent woman lawyer.
	Mrs. Emily S. Richards then addressed the
assembly for a few minutes, and spoke eloquently
of the eminent lady lawyer, Mrs. Lockwood,
and gratefully of her labors in the suffrage work,
and in behalf of the women of Utah, after which
she read the address of Mrs. Lockwood.


[Column 1]
THE DISFRANCHISEMENT OF THE
WOMEN OF UTAH.

BY BELVA A. LOCKWOOD.
Read before the National Woman Suffrage Association,
at Washington, D. C., January 24, 1883.

MRS. PRESIDENT, OFFICERS AND MEMBERS OF
THE NATIONAL WOMAN SUFFRAGE ASSO-
CIATION:

	We are banded together in the promulgation
of one of the most momentous moral and politi-
cal reforms that has ever agitated our country,
and one which must, in the nature of things,
revolutlonize the social and political status of
the women of this Union. It will overturn the
Old Common Law, that the man and the
woman are one, and that one the man; and

[Column 2]
that the ability to hold land means the ability
to bear arms; in short, that "might alone makes
right."
	It took us, as a people, nearly a century to
shake off the incubus of human slavery, and to
publicly declare that color should not interfere
with the rights of citizenship. The Declaration
of the Fathers that "all men are born free and
equal" had been warped to mean that color took
away the indices of manhood, and that Negroes
and Indians were not men; and for a series of
decades these people were oppressed, depressed,
insulted and outraged. It took the point of the
bayonet, dipped in the best blood of the country
for three years, to so write the argument that
the people could understand and believe it. To-
day there is not, in the whole land, man or
woman bold enough to advocate a return to the
old order of things, either as a matter of expedi-
ency or necessity. We have now narrowed the
argument of human rights and human privi-
leges down to the one point of sex. A woman
in every State in this Union may hold land in
her own right. She may pay taxes, real and
personal, invest in bank or railroad stock, is a-
menable to the law which in every section reads
his or him, and may commit and be hung
for treason against the government. Without
any opinion as to her innocence or guilt (for I
have none), I am glad that one woman suffered
this martyrdom; that one woman demonstrated
that she had power to conspire for the overthrow
of the Government. And yet every drop of blood
that courses through my veins is loyal to my
country and her best interests, not to a section,
a faction, a party, or a creed, but to the best
good of this whole people—North and South,
East and West.
	Mrs. President, what our reform means is,
the individuality of woman; equal rights and
privileges, and equal responsibilities; the right
to say who shall rule over us, and how we shall
be taxed; the right to put down the whisky
traffic with the ballot; the right to a voice in
the control of our public schools. Not the abill
ty to bear arms, for war is a relic of the barbar-
ism of the past, and to-day the "pen is mightier
than the sword." Reason, reflection, argu-
ment, are subduing the passions of men, and
the god-like and the immortal in man is con-
trolling the brutal and the mortal.
	It is argued that if women are permitted to
vote, that colored women, ignorant women, and
women in brothels will vote. Yes; but to day
colored men, ignorant men, foreign men, and
men who hang around whisky saloons and
brothels (and they largely outnumber the
women) vote. The tramp nuisance is confined
to men. The croaker goes farther, and says
that it will unsettle our domestic relations, dis-
rupt and dismember families; that women will
neglect their homes and their children. Per-
haps they would, if women were disposed to fol-
low the example of the pot-house politician, the
hanger-on at the corner grocery and beer saloon.
But nearly the same arguments have been
raised at every step of advancement that has
been made in this or any other country. When
a woman forgets her maternity, and natural
love and affection die, then, and not till then,
will she forget and neglect her children and her
home. But is the moral duty of a mother to
her home greater than that of a father? Is
there not a common compact of nature and of
law that binds them equally? Does the ballot
unfit the man for this duty?
	The Constitution of the United States, the
embodiment of the wisdom of the Fathers of
the Revolution, confers upon woman the right
of the ballot, as follows:
	"All persons born or naturalized in the Uni-
ted States, aud subject to the jurisdiction there-

[Column 3]
of, are CITIZENS of the United States and of the
State in which they reside. No State shall
make or enforce any law which shall abridge
the privileges or immunities of citizens of the
United States; nor shall any State deprive any
person of life, liberty, or property, without due
process of law, nor deny to any person within its
Jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws."
	Ten years ago the attention of Congress was
called to this clause of the Constitution as con-
ferring this right of suffrage, and able legal ar-
guments were made upon it, but our appeals
and petitions were disregarded, and might over-
ruled the plain letter of the law. Gen. B. F.
Butler, bold and intrepid, advocated it then.
True to himself, he has recently, in his masterly
inaugural to the Commonwealth of Massachu-
setts, reiterated that conviction. But failing to
secure legislative indorsement of the right of
franchise of the women of the country, we ask
a sixteenth amendment to the Constitution of
the United States to settle this vexed question
at once, and forever, and thus do justice to the
wives and mothers and sisters and daughters of
this great American Republic, of which we
have boasted as the freest and grandest country
under the sun. Twelve States of the Union,
including Massachusetts and New York, have
granted school suffrage to women. Nebraska,
in her last election, polled 28,000 male votes for
woman suffrage. If the women themselves
had been permitted to vote, there would have
been 50,000 votes cast, and the election would
have been won. School suffrage for women
means a proper education of the children—a
coming up out of the old order of things; out of
the idea which is an emanation of the heathen-
ism handed down to us from the darkness and
superstitions of the past, into the broad light of
a Christian civilization, which means to women
intelligent thought, freedom, responsibility, re-
ward for labor, the emoluments of office, and
self-support. It means an incentive to study
and work; a light in the horizon of the dawning
of a new day.
	For more than a decade, Wyoming and Utah,
with characteristic justice and these articles of
the Constitution before them, decided through
their respective Legislatures, to give a ballot to
their women. For twelve successive years
these women have voted, and homes have not
been destroyed, nor children orphaned, but, on
the contrary, harmony and morality have been
the prevailing results of giving to the women
themselves this method of self-protection.
These are precedents—actual, tangible demon-
strations of the principles enunciated by the
National Woman Suffrage Association. But
the enemies of reform, ever on the alert for
cause, willing to descend to trickery and chican-
ery to compass an end, no matter at whose cost,
and seizing hold of the most trivial pretext to
carry a point, make the religious belief of the
Mormons, which culminated in the Edmunds
bill March 22nd, 1882, a pretext for disfranchis-
ing polygamists, male and female, and disquali-
fying them from holding office. The law was
signed and promulgated, and the commissioners
duly appointed and set to work to ferret out
every unfortunate man and woman who had
ever espoused that principle of the Mormon
faith, and to place upon each the ban of
disfranchisement and disqualification for of-
fice. With singular fidelity and zeal, these
commissioners did more than confine them-
selves to the strict letter of the law, which was
in itself severe. They made the law
retroactive, contrary to the spirit and the
letter of the Constitution. They under-
took to enforce their idea of the intent
of the law, and what they believed the
law ought to be, and to depose men from office


[Column 1]
who had been duly elected by the voice of the
people. It invaded the domestic relations of
the territory, disrupted families; and strange to
say, in its efforts to punish men, who alone had
committed the offence, for the crime of bigamy
and polygamy, wreaked its vengeance upon the
women. It has never been charged, so far as I
know, that any woman in Utah has, openly,
lived with more than one husband. But this
Edmund's Bill disfranchises the first wife of a
Mormon, who of all other persons should have
been considered guiltless of offence. If she be
guilty then, any woman in this house would be
guilty of a crime, if her husband should com-
mit, or attempt to commit bigamy or polygamy.
But the Mormon people submitted to this out-
rage, and quietly refrained from any attempt to
vote. Every polygamous Mormon, and
every wife of a polygamist was dis-
franchised. One would have supposed
that the matter would have ended there;
but there is that spirit in tyranny and oppres-
sion, that when the victim is under its heel, it
wants to grind him a little more, inflict some
further torture. Now comes the Hon. George
William Cassidy, of Nevada, the only member
from that little far off Western State, and wish-
ing to immortalize himself in some way, moves
to disfranchise the women of Utah. He wants
to wipe out, at one fell swoop, more votes than
it took to elect him to office. He wants in his
magnanimity to punish women for the crimes
of men,—to punish Gentile or non-Mormon wo-
men for the alleged direliction of Mormon men.
He says by way of explanation in the newspapers
"that this blow is not aimed at woman suffrage
so called but at bigamy and polygamy." The
Hon. Mr. Cassidy knows, if he knows anything,
that no bigamist or polygamist man or woman,
can vote in Utah now, and that whatever he in-
tends, his bill is a blow to woman suffrage and
only a fool or a knave would deny it. But it
does not matter so much what a gun is aimed
at, as what it hits. Hear the gentleman for
himself.
	Mr. Cassidy introduced the following bill: "A
bill to disapprove and repeal an act of the gov-
ernor and legislative assembly of the Territory
of Utah entitled "An act conferring upon
women the elective franchise," and for other
purposes.
	Be it enacted by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States of Ameri-
ca in Congress assembled, That the act of the
Governor and legislative assembly of the Terri-
tory of Utah entitled "An act conferring upon
women the elective franchise, and approved by
the governor of said Territory February twelfth,
eighteen hundred and seventy, be, and the
same is hereby disapproved and repealed.
	Section 2. That all other laws or parts of
laws now in force in said Territory conferring
upon women, in said Territory, the elective
franchise, be, and they are hereby, disapproved
and repealed."
	Now ask the gentleman what his little bill is
aimed at; and when the time comes to re-elect
a representative for the little State of Nevada,
let the women of that State arise in their own
womanhood, and politely ask Mr. Cassidy, (if
they can do it in no other way, through their
fathers, husbands, and sons,) to stay at home
and till the soil, or delve in the mines of that
productive State. He was elected to Congress
by the meagre majority of 1,237 votes. Anyone
of the eloquent women on this platform could
go to that State and turn the tide against him.
And so let every politician die whose greed for
office outruns his sense of justice and who denies
the paternity of his own child, or the signifi-
cance of it, as Mr. Cassidy does in this bill.
	Hardly had the sound of this gentleman's

[Column 2]
voice died on the air before the Hon. George F.
Edmunds, of Vermont, comes forward with an
Amendment to his former little bill. Growing
bolder by the success of his first bill, which was
as unconstitutional as it was unjust; under cover
of an exalted purity and patriotism, he shies a
stone at woman suffrage making bigamy and
polygamy a cloak for the disfranchisement of
whom? The Mormon women? No! they are
already disfranchised under his former bill, all
of them who are now in polygamy, or who
have ever lived in polygamy are already disfran-
chised, but this also includes so called Gentile
women. For what, are they, or have they
been bigamists or polygamists? No! Do
they believe in bigamy or polygamy? No!
Hear what he says:
	"Section 7. That it shall not be lawful for any
female to vote at any election hereafter held in
the Territory of Utah for any public purpose
whatever, and no such vote shall be received or
counted or given effect in any manner what-
ever, and any and every act of the governor
and legislative assembly of the Territory of
Utah providing for or allowing the registration
or voting by females is hereby annulled.
	Section 8. That the existing election districts
and apportionments of representation concern-
ing the members of the Legislative Assembly of
the Territory of Utah are hereby abolished; and
it shall be the duty of the Governor, Territor-
ail secretary, and the United [-]tates judges in
said Territory forthwith to redistrict said Terri-
tord and apportion representation in the same
in such manner as to provide as nearly as may
be for an equal representation of the people (ex-
cepting Indians not taxed) being citizens of the
United States, according to numbers, in said Leg-
islative Assembly, and to the number of mem-
bers of the Council and House of Represent-
atives, respectively, as now established by law.
And a record of the establishment of such new
district and the apportionment of representa-
tion thereto shall be made in the office of the
secretary of the said Territory, and such estab-
lishment and representation shall continue un-
til Congress shall otherwise provide; and no
persons other than citizens of the United States
otherwise qualified shall be entitled to vote at
any election in said Territory."
	These citizens are guilty of the crime of being
women, for no fault of their own; "females,"
Mr. Edmunds calls them, which might apply
equally to dog or cat—and for this crime he
proposes to punish them without judge or jury,
and by a flat of law deprive 10,000 women citi-
zens of the ballot, and concludes by saying,
"No person other than citizens of the United
States, otherwise qualified, shall be entitled to
vote at any election in said Territory." And 
now the title of the bill is amended as follows:
	"A bill to provide further means for the sup-
pression of the crimes of bigamy, polygamy,
and unlawful cohabitation in the Territories of
the United States, and to provide for the better
government of the Territory of Utah, and for
other purposes."
	Did ever a politician—I cannot say statesman
—get up so flimsy a pretext for so unjust an act?
Punish innocent women for the crimes of men!
	Does any one of this intelligent audience be-
lieve that that was the honorable gentleman's 
motive?	Disfranchisement is punishment, and
punishment supposes crime, and crime under
our Constitution and laws, call for a trial by a
jury of one's peers, and a conviction of the of-
fense. See decision of the United States Su-
preme Court in case of Cummins, 4th Wallace. 
	Suppose that Mr. Edmunds should attempt
to introduce into the Legislature of his own lit-
tle State of Vermont some sweeping legislation
like this, and under the pretense that some
persons in that State were guilty of unlawful
cohabitation, undertake to wipe out 20,000 or
25,000 votes, not after trial and conviction of
crime, but on general principles punish the in-
nocent with the guilty. If the honorable gen-
tleman is really so intent upon the promulgation
of virtue, and the purity of the morals of the

[Column 3]
Republic is what is really disturbing his diges-
tion, let him experiment upon the Congress of
the United States, and see if he will have a
quorum left after the first re-districting, as he
terms it.
	But he goes farther than Utah, and desires to
make this bill apply not only to that unhappy
Territory, but to ALL of the Territories of the
United States—to every spot that Congress dare
invade. He has already had a hand in disfran-
chising the men of the District of Columbia,
and his appetite is whetted for more conquests
of defenseless and misrepresented Territories of
the United States; thus shutting out woman
suffrage by positive legislation in other Terri-
tories, and in new Territories that may be
formed; invading those rights usually delegated
to the States and Territories of the Union, of
arranging their own internal affairs. He seeks
to take away the right of choice from them as
to who shall or who shall not vote.
	But let us see what else there is in this bill re-
lating to women. Read section 1:
	Section 1. That in any proceeding and ex-
amination before the grand jury, a judge or
United States commisoner, in any pro[-]ecution
for bigamy, polygamy, or unlawful cohabitation
under any statute of the United States, the law-
ful husband or wife of the person accused shall
be a competent witness, and may be called and
may be compelled to testify in such proceeding,
examination, or prosecution without the con-
sent of the husband or wife, as the case may be.
	Section 2. That in any prosecution for big-
amy, polygamy or unlawful cohabitation, under
any statute of the United States whether before
a United States commissioner, judge, a grand
jury, or any court, an attachment for any wit-
ness may be issued by the court, judge, or com-
missioner without a previous subpoena, compsil-
ing the immediate attendance of such witness,
when it shall appear to the commissioner, judge
or court, as the case may be, that there is a 
reasonable ground to believe that such witness
would unlawfully fail to obey a subpoena issued
and served in the usual course in such cases.
	This eminent jurist and law-maker, in this
section proposes not only to override the Old
Common Law, and statute law respected from
time immemorial, by bringing witnesses into
court by process of subpoena, but proposes to at-
tach them at once and bring them bodily into
court, or thrust them in jail if need be, to com
pel attendance; to make the wife testify against
the husband or the husband against the wife in
defiance of law, statute, or custom; and the
learned gentleman does not even allude to a pre-
cedent for such unheard-of legislation. He pro-
poses to finish indiscriminately by disfranchis-
ing women never charged or even suspected of a
crime, much less convicted of a felony. He pro-
poses to bring a wife into court against her hus-
band, whether willing or unwilling to convict
him of felony, and thus beggar herself and child-
ren. The learned jurist buries the Blackstonian
idea of the oneness of husband and wife before the
law, so deep that it is doubtful, with his learned
emanation it will ever again be resurrected, or
that barrister or judge will, in the days to come,
venture to allude to it. But he throws "Starkie
on Evidence," and the laws for the Pension
Office quite in the shade when he undertakes to
make a "certificate of marriage, solemnized by
priest or other person," prima facie evidence, of
the facts required by this act to be stated there-
in, in any proceeding civil or criminal in which
the matter shall be drawn in question. No
where in the courts in the United States or in
the Department of the Government is a Certifi-
cate of marriage, which any person can falsify,
taken as evidence. Now listen to another para-
graph of this remarkable bill.
	Section 5. That every record and entry of any
kind concerning any ceremony of mar-
riage, or in nature of marriage, made or kept
by any officer clergyman, priest, or person per-
forming civil or ecclesiastical functions, whether


[Column 1]
lawful or not, in any Territory of the United
States, shall be subject to inspection at all
reasonable times by any officer of justice ap-
pointed under the authority of the United States
and shall, on request, be produced and shown to
such officer by any person in whose possession
or control the same may be. Every person who
shall violate the provisions of this section shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall
on conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of
not more than one thousand dollars or by im-
prisonment not longer than two years, or by
both said punishments, in the discretion of the
court. And it shall be lawful for any United
States commissioner, judge, or court before
whom any proceeding shall be pending in which
such record or entry may be material by proper
warrant, to cause such record or entry and the
book, document, or paper containing the same
to be taken and brought before him or it for the
purposes of such proceeding.
	What says the Constitution, Article IV. The
right of the people to be secure in their persons;
houses, papers and effects against unreasonable
searches and seizures, shall not be violated and
no warrants shall issue but upon probable cause
supported by oath or affirmation, and particular-
ly describing the place to be searched, and the
person or thing to be seized."
	Whenever before this proposed legislation was
an officer of the law authorized to invade the
privacy of priest or clergyman, or other private
individual, not suspected or accused of crime,
and make unreasonable searches or seizures, or
drag the occupant before a court of justice, civil
or criminal, without a warrant of law? The
proposition is monstrous.
	Section 2 of Article 4 of the Constitution says,
"The citizens of each State shall be entitled to
all the privileges and immunities of citizens in
the several States."
	This Territory, which has for two years past
been made the football of the Congress of the
United States, has now votes enough to be ad-
mitted into the Union in the full-fledged dignity
of a State, as is her right and privilege, when
here comes this monstrous proposition to deprive
one half of her now citizens of citizenship by de-
priving them of the cleative franchise by heap-
ing upon them other indignities, and disqualify-
ing them of office as convicted felons. The posi-
tion of women has been hitherto abject enough,
but we have prided ourselves, Mrs. President, that
in Utah and Wyoming women were enjoying a
freedom denied to most of us; that they could
vote and be voted for, elect and be elected to
office. We cannot take this backward step with-
out drifting into anarchy or monarchy. Woe be
to the security of American liberties, if the en-
croachments proposed to be made by this inci-
pient legislation can be enacted into law.
	But do any of my hearers suppose that the
gist of this affair is to do away with bigamy
and polygamy, and that this is a virtuous up-
rising of the United States Congress? The
Territory of Utah was organized in 1850, with
all of these peculiarities of a portion of her citi-
zens known to the Government, and not only
tolerated, but winked at, and allowed to attain
gigantic proportions. This present strife is a
party one, and raised for political effect, and for
political ends. The real question at issue is,
whether Utah as a State will be Democratic or
Republican, and the honorable Senator from
Vermont is anxious to cut off Democratic votes
enough to secure to this State, when ushered in,
two Republican Senators for his party. He pro-
poses to do this by cutting off the votes of the
women, and at the same time indulging a nar-
row prejudice against the so called Woman's
Rights movement. He is determined to keep
Utah out of the Union, or make her subservient
to his ends, while he remands to slavery the
women of the Territory. Oh! consistency! thou

[Column 2]
art a jewel. On the 21st of December, 1882, this
honorable gentleman was before the United
States Supreme Court in the pay of a monied
corporation, when with pathos and tears he en-
dorsed and sustained the following remarkable
declarations from his colleague, the Honorable
Roscoe Conkling. After elaborating at length
upon the poiont that a corporation is a person,
and entitled to all the rights and privileges of a
person before the law, and elaborating the his-
tory of the 14th and 15th amendments to the
Constitution, he says:
	Referring to Chief Justice Marshall in the
Dartmouth College case, Mr. Conkling read a
strong statement that, even if the framers of
the Constitution did not intend to defer or to in-
clude a given case, it must, nevertheless, fall
within the Constitution, if the language covered
it.
	He added: A poet and philosopher of parables
has said,

"The hand that rounded Peter's dome,
And grained the aisles of Christian Rome,
Wrought in a sad sincerity.
He builded better than he knew."

*		*		*		*		*		*		*		*

	The men who proposed the fourteenth amend-
ment wrought in some sincerity; it may be they
builded better than they knew. If it be true
that needs have arisen of which they never
dreamed; if it be true that wrongs have arisen,
or shall arise, which they never apprehended,
and which shall be cured by the words they es-
tablished, then all the more will those words be
sanctified and consecrated to humanity and
progress.
	Mr. Conkling next argued that the proceeding
by which the defendant was assessed and taxed
was not "due process of law." Reciting the
various discriminations to which his client was
subjected, he said: "Such unjust and discrimin-
ating requirements are not due process of law,
and no matter by what instrumentality they
are inflicted, whether by one of the departments
of its Government or another, or by all, or by
the organic law of the State, the fourteenth
amendment of the Constitution of the United
States acts upon them, and prohibits them."
	Mr. Edmunds, recently, in the United States
Senate, shed tears to the allusions made to his
daughter, dead. If his sorrow be indeed sincere,
let him consecrate the memory of his beloved
one by doing justice to the daughters of the Re-
public. To her oppression cannot come.
	And now comes the honorable Edwin Willets,
of Michigan, who, taking the cue from Mr. Ed-
munds, introduces a similar bill in the House of
Representatives, which also proposes to disfran-
chise the women of Utah. The last two sections
of Mr. Willet's bill have no affiliation whatever
with the text of it, which is entitled "A bill
for the suppression of bigamy and polygamy in
the Territory of Utah." It lacks some of the
oppressive features of the Edmunds bill, but
follows it in the main. The legislation proposed
in all of them is odious, and opposed to the
spirit of the Constitution and Government,
which was founded upon the idea of religious
toleration, and which has ever held that it was
the privilege of each State and Territory to regu-
late its own internal affairs. The authority
given to Congress to control the affairs of the
Territories, is a general one, and previous to the
enactment of the Edmunds bill has never been
inquisatorial in character. The Territories of
the United States have hitherto enjoyed all the
privileges that were originally granted to the
Colonies under the Confederation.
	The progress of woman suffrage depends upon
the nomination and election of upright men to
office."
	After reading Apostle F. D. Richards

[Column 3]
spoke of the lofty sentiments contained in the
address of the gifted lady, that the arguments
were sound and strictly constitutional, eminent-
ly patriotic and truly loyal to the genius of our
government. He concluded by moving a vote
of thanks and appreciation to Mrs. Lockwood
for her able argument in behalf of the women
of Utah. It was seconded by several of the
ladies and gentlemen on the platform and car-
ried unanimously.
	After which Hon. F. S. Richards commend-
ed Mrs. Lockwood's courage in speaking on so
unpopular a subject b fore the Convention and
Members of the Senate as "our question," and
said she was an eminent lawyer and the only
lady who had ever been admitted to practise
law at the bar of the United States Supreme
Court. After years of arduous study of the
science of law, she had been refused admission
to the bar and denied the privilege of represent-
ing her sex in the legal forums at Washington.
But with indomitable energy and untiring per-
severence she had applied to the National Con-
gress for relief, and after years of incessant toil
and of weary waiting, had by an act of Congress
forced open the doors of the temples of justice
throughout the land, which are now open to all
her sex who will prepare themselves for the du-
ties of the profession and enter the arena as she
has done. The speaker became acquainted with
Mrs. Lockwood in Washington. She was a tal-
ented lady' of education and culture, and devo-
ted her labor to promote the best interest of her
own sex, and had for years been one of the lead-
ing spirits of the National Woman Suffrage
movement. She has taken much pains to make
herself acquainted with the situation of the
people and their affairs in this Territory, and
she has had the courage to deliver before the
National Woman's Suffrage Association at the
National Capital the very able and eloquent ad-
dress which we have just heard. He spoke in
glowing terms of the benevolence and heroism
of this excellent lady, and while he took pleas-
ure in paying her this feeble tribute, he regret-
ted that the audience had not the privilege of
listening to her eloquence from her own lips.
	The choir sang. Benediction. Meeting ad-
journed till two o'clock p.m.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 13


14	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


<r s.="" y.="" l.="" m.="" i.="" ,="" a.="" atfd="" primary="" repart5,-ir,="" ;,-v="" u;="" :="" ;t="">R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

WASATCH STAKE.

	Conference of the Relief Society of Wasatch
Stake convened in Heber City, May 11th,
1883. Present, President Emma Brown
and her Counselors, Presidents of several
wards, also Brother T. H. Giles, Bishop Fore-
man and other brethren. Meeting called to
order by President Brown. Singing. Prayer
by Sister Murdock, President of the Primary
Association. Minutes of previous Conference
read and approved. Reports read by the sec-
retary show all to be in a very prosperous con-
dition. Verbal reports were given by the sev-
eral Presidents, which were very encouraging.
The secretary gave some instructions to the
secretaries of the wards, telling them to be
punctual in sending in their reports in time so
she could have time to have all things in order
and in the proper place. Sister Alexander
spoke a short time, also other sisters, bearing
a faithful testimony. Conference adjourned
until two o'clock p.m. Singing. Benediction
by Brother Giles.
	Afternoon session. Singing. Prayer by
Bishop Foreman. Sister Moulton gave us
some good counsel, said we should never neg-
lect our duty, but be always ready to respond
to every call. The secretary then presented
the officers of the Stake before the conference,
who were unanimously sustained, also of the


[Column 1]
different wards. Bishop Foreman then ad-
dressed the sisters, spoke on Celestial Mar-
riage, said it was a holy order, also spoke of
the great evils that now exist among the
young. Told the mothers to look after their
daughters, that they might not be led astray.
to teach their sons virtue and temperance.
Brother Giles spoke on the same subject, said
a great responsibility rested on the parents; a
good spirit prevailed throughout the confer-
ence, and much excellent counsel was given.
Conference adjourned for three months.
					MARY BRONSON,
						Secretary R. S.

RICHMOND.

	Minutes of the Fourth Annual Meeting of
the Richmond Primary Association, held May
31st, 1883, President Mary Allsop presiding.
Singing, "Always Cheerful." Prayer by Elder
W. K. Burnham. Singing, "We are the child-
ren of the Saints." Minutes of the last annu-
al meeting; and the yearly report read and ap-
proved. The officers were presented and sus-
tained for the following year, as follows: Mary
Allsop; President; Mary Monson and Maggie
W. Thompson, Counselors; Mary A. Traveller,
Secretary; Elizabeth Merrill, Assistant Secre-
tary; Reuben Traveller, Treasurer; Nellie
Bullen and Jane Hyer, Teachers. The follow-
ing programme was rendered: Marinda Mon-
son recited, "A kind action;" Maria Hansen
sang, "The Golden Rule;" Dialogue, entitled,
"Jennie and Carrie," by Ellen Hyer and Han-
nah Funk; Susie Thomas sang, "Home Sweet
Home;" Rachel Knapp recited, "To Brigham
Young;" Nellie Bullen recited, "Birth of
Joseph and Hyrum;" Kate and Talitha Rainey
sang, "Paddle your own Canoe;" Millie Travel-
ler recited, "The chicken that did'nt hatch;"
Sinia Beck sang, "Little Footsteps;" Recitation
by Maud Tippetts, entitled, "Never say cant,
but I'll try;" Justin Skidmore recited, "Little
boys will grow;" "'Tis meeting day," was sang
by Julia Olsen; Frankie Burnham recited,
"Three Rules;" Charles Skidmore recited, "Do
your best;" "Baby Darling," was sang by Bes-
sie Cluff; Laura Merrill recited; "The Sacra-
ment;" Dialogue, by Hyrum and Walter Mon-
son, entitled, "Digging Gold;" Song, by Lucy
Petty, Hyla Hendricks and Maud Tippetts, en-
titled, "Katie's Secret;" Select reading, by
Birdie Harrison; "The Blackberry Girl" was
recited, by Emma Nibley; Isabella and Mary
Thompson sang, "Love at Home;" Bible Ques-
tions were asked, which were answered by the
children; Hattie Skidmore recited, "What have
you done;" Dialogue, by Jane Hyer and Rozina
Funk, entitled, "Meeting;"  Alice Brower re-
cited "The little people;" Song by Chole
Rainey, entitled, "Baby Mine."
	Brother W. K. Burnham praised the child-
ren for rendering their parts so well. Gave ex-
cellent advice.
	Sister Frances Traveller said; remember
what you learn at Primary, for the children
will have to bear off the Kingdom.
	Sister Betsey Brower advised the children to
do as they were told, and never say "no when
called on to perform any task.
	Sister Hannah T. Brower said, it is four years
to-day since the Primary was organized. God
bless you all, and help you to improve in all
things.
	President Mary Allsop told the childreu to
remember the Primary motto, which is "Child-
ren love each other." Singing, "We want to
see the Temple." Benediction by the children
in concert.
	 Yearly report. Number of meetings held,
48; Number of members, 183; Average attend-
ance 90; Cash received $34,45; Cash paid out,
$31.95; Donated to Temple, $20.00; Emigra-
tion Fund, $5.00; Paid to Stake Secretary,
$1.00; Paid for books, cards, writing-material,

[Column 2]
etc., 5.95; Cash on hand, $2.50; Property
$5.00; total, $7.50.
	MARY A. TRAVELLER, Secretary,
	ELIZABETH MERRILL, Asst. Secretary

SOUTH COTTONWOOD.

	Minutes of the Primary Association of
South Cottonwood Ward, May 23rd, 1883.
Meeting called to order by President E. Davis.
Opened by singing, "Gather them into the
fold." Prayer by Charles Shepperd. Singing,
"Don't kill the little birds." The forenoon
exercises were mostly composed of songs and
recitations, and the manner in which the young
folks acquitted themselves of their parts was
really noteworthy.
	Afternoon meeting. Called to order  by Presi-
dent E. Davis at two p.m. Singing. Prayer
by Brother Thomas Wheeler. Singing, "Do
what is right." Sister E. Clawson addressed
the children; told us she could see a marked
improvement since her last visit, and was
pleased to see so many present.
	Sister Emmeline B. Wells addressed the
meeting in words of love and encouragement. She
was pleased to see so many boys present, and
closed her few remarks, leaving a general re-
gret that she did not occupy more time.
	Sister Louie Felt, Sister Mary Freeze, Sister
Liddell and Sister Mary Rawlins, each gave
an expression of the interest they felt in our
Primary meetings, and closed, leaving their
blessings for the boys and girls of Israel.
	At four o'clock p.m. the exercises closed,
each and every one being pleased with the
entertainment. Benediction by Sister Wheeler.
						E. M. BRINTON,
								Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 15


[Column 1]
﻿EARLY MORNING ON THE RIGHI,
			ZURICH, Oct. 16th, 1882.
	The lover of solitude is brought to a sharp
realization of the march of modern improve-
ment if he expects to indulge, a taste for rural
simplicity at the Righi Kulm. Contrasts are
wonderfully striking there. Coming down
from the clouds as far as the hotels, we found
much that was of the earth, earthy. With
our wraps we threw off for the time the en-
chantment which held us spell-bound just
above our then present surroundings. There
on that Alpine height, which only a few years
ago was seldom visited expect by those desir-
ous of performing a pilgrimage, we found
guests from all nations and lands, accommoda-
ted as well as they would expect to be in any
of the cities of our own continent.
	In 1816 a small house to shelter the occa-
sional visitor was for the first time erected
there. In 1848, the first regular inn was built.
To-day we find several handsome and substan-
tial buildings on the mountain, those at the
Kulm alone having comfortable quarters for
about two thousand guests, with plenty of well
trained clerks, porters and waiters to attend to
their wants.
	A long drawn out "table d'hote" dinner is
served soon after the going down of the sun.
We are told there are parties equal to appre-
ciating that exercise even here. Perhaps they
are pilgrims who take it as they would a
penance.
	We found the large salon well lighted and
luxuriously furnished. Gay parties flitted in
and out. A modern piano lent its familiar
tones to the scene, while fun and frolic were
quite as much in order above the clouds as we
had found it in the lower region. It would
seem as though, this mountain peak was one of
the thoroughfares of our own<jouhtry sincewo="" met="" hp="" lessthan="" a="" ljalf="" dozen="" of="" our="" acquain-="" tances="" on="" the="" summjl="" '-i="" ohe’seldhnhas;:="" uj:chanco"="" to="" feel="" absolutely="" lgnesiejejeminjthis="" far="" tfwiiyj="" 'land,="" since="" at="" evefuruingh'pruis="" f'possibility="" pfj="" meeting="" a.="" friend.="" jye.haye="" -found="" r..oursr="" in,="" .thebpwej="" 6f="" ;th6="" earth="" and="" ,="" m="" misty="" mountain="" tops="" we="" °dften'="" wpnder="" if="" the'journey.="" utfi="" -tnw="" otlidi-jahd="" beyond="" jho="" sea-pf="" tme.wi!i'bie;af="" full="" gladsufprisespnd="" 'h'ppreppgnitions.="" iiqur!ew’n="" ’heartg="" fwe="" have=""> country since we
met no less than a half dozen of our acquain-
tances on the summit.
	One seldom has a chance to feel absolutely
lonesome even in this far away, land, since at
every turning there is a possibility of meeting

[Column 2]
a friend. We have found ours in the bowels
of the earth and on the misty mountain tops,
We often wonder if the journey into that
other land beyond the Sea of Time will be as
full of glad surprises and happy recognitions.
In our own hearts we have a eonviction not
easily reasoned away, that tender greetings
will be waiting for us "beyond the pearly gates
of day," and that loving guides will go with
us into the presence of "Our Father" as soon
as our feet shall be able to tread the wondrous
way, or our eyes have strength to bear the
glory which shall be round about us. Since
we who are still in the flesh are so glad to
clasp the hands of those whom we left on the
other side, to tell them the wonders we have
seen, and show them the treasures we have
been permitted to enjoy, may we not conclude
that our unceasing yearning for the dear ones
who have gone before us will have its most
precious answer when we find that place in the
Father's home which we are assured has been
prepared for all who desire to enter therein?
It very often happens to us now on this side to
meet with some casual friend or acquaintance
whom we have not seen since we left our own
shores, perhaps one whom we seldom met or
scarcely knew there. The sight of such a one
here in this strange land is at once a bond of
union, and we start on in a new sort of ac-
quaintance, finding out so many satisfactory
things about this new friend, or this old friend,
and wondering that we could have been so
blind or so full of other things as not to have
seen deeper before. All time tends towards
eternity. A few years more or less and the
things of this earth will have passed by for us,
then may it not be that the new heaven and
the new earth shall show us our friends again,
revealing more than our earthly eyes could
ever see of sweetness and perfection? Here it
seems certain that we drift on in one sense in
the great current of life. T<loset whp="" are.ypry="" precious'tojus="" go="" with="" us.or,="" are="" syept="" heyopd,="" us="" .there7%e',may="" hope="" tq="" find="" them="" ’all.="" dreapohen="" bfthe="" word?="" which’="" hre.feftliii="" true-mean="" ing,="" and.we="" shri="" understand,="" those="" apput-usa.%="" ft="" has="" '="" been!="" impossible.="" ,to="" bompjehendj="" thqm="" our-earthly="" liinitationsv,="" frj="" "="" v="" 'ingidobur.hotel="" there="" was="" a-l[ttle.="" world="" all="" witself.="" ;="" outside="" the="" evening="" darkened,="" ipjq;tke="" night..="" tt="" was.="" cqld,="" damp="" and="" cheer-="" less.'="" !,!there!="" wa3="" moi’th!="" sensaaf="" insecunu’,="" ofurfacent.uiaf="" wq="" did="" not="" feet.'hqw="" entirely,="" w.wb.="" liftedabove="" fhq'atandnotntot’br="" nary="" mortals!="" summit="" of="" the'="" ‘righl.'whg,="" quite="" ajlittle="" walk="" above="" us,="" so="" vefelt="" that-we="" w'ergjmfe="" secure="" in="" our="" nfponhgs,="" ‘oursensa-i="" tioba="" werp.="" certainly'="" akin="" td="">hose who are very
precious to us go with us or are swept beyond
us. There we may hope to find them all.
Here "we see through a glass, darkly;" there,
we will see "face to face." The words which
are spoken or the words which are left un-
spoken in this world will find their true mean-
ing, and we shall understand those about us as
it has been impossible to comprehend them
with our earthly limitations.
	Inside our hotel there was a little world all
by itself. Outside us the evening darkened
into the night. It was cold, damp and cheer-
less. There was not the sense of insecurity
that we felt at Mt. Washington. The clouds
had gathered so protectingly about us during
our ascent that we did not feel how entirely
we were lifted above the standpoint of ordi-
nary mortals. The summit of the Right was
quite a little walk above us, so we felt that we
were quite secure in our moorings. Our sensa-
tions were certainly akin to those we have,
when out at sea. As the moon struggles
through the mists for a few seconds we see a
restless surging ocean beneath us, and uncon-
sciously listen for the warning voice of the fog
whistle, as we did on shipboard when the
clouds close in again. We miss the monoto-
nous, faithful beating of the huge engine,
whose strokes kept pace with all our thoughts,
waking or sleeping, through the many days
that the fair green earth was hidden from our
eyes.
	There is nothing more for us to see outside
the house. We go in, and the clerk brings us
a huge book wherein we are expected to in-
scribe our names. We look it over with now
and then a note or exclamation as we come
upon some well known name. A goodly com-
pany has evidently gone on before us.
	We gathered our forces and went up the
great stone stairs in the rotunda to find our
sleeping rooms, all of which proved comforta-
ble and convenient. We were to be roused


half an hour before sunrise by the reveille,
and it behooved us to get what sleep we could.
The night was not entirely restful, for we were
quite possessed of the idea that the man whose
one duty in this world was to blow that Al-
pine horn, would be the one man in the estab-
lishment who would most enjoy a morning
nap. If we had been the next in order ap-
pointed to fill his place in case of his non ap-
pearance we could not have given ourselves
more concern obout the signs of the times.
We were up and dressed before the time. The
reveille did not sound. Of course the man
was asleep. A suggestion that the clouds
might be at the bottom, or rather the top of
the mystery, met with no favor in our case.
We had seen the sun set the night before en-
tirely regardless of clouds. He might rise in
the same fashion. We went up to the Belve-
dere, but it was of no avail. If the sun did
get up that morning, as we have every reason
to believe he did, his toilet was not made in
public. There was not the faintest suggestion
of a rosy dawn. Nothing but dense, damp,
impenetrable fog. Neither poet nor astrono-
mer could have made anything else out of it.
	We went back to breakfast without having
any occasion to felicitate ourselves on the re-
sult of our "morning watch." There is not
the slightest probability of our becoming a
rival candidate for the honor of blowing the
Alpine horn for the revielle in the Righi. We
have no desire to share the honors with the
rightful owner of that melodious instrument.
	As the morning advanced the clouds re-
ceded. There were great rifts in the mists
below, and many and many an exquisite pic-
ture broke through its silver setting, to have a
mysterious veil flung over it, and be hidden
from our sight again. We would not go down
till we had made sure we had exhausted the
changing panorama.
	When the clouds hemmed us in we turned
our attention to the queer little booths of cu-
riousities arranged actually on the very top of
the mountain. Here sprightly boys and queer
old women drive a brisk trade when the views
are obscured. They remind one of the vend-
ers of ices and lemonade who enliven the the-
atres between the acts, but are utterly forgot-
ten except when the curtain is down.
	We were more than paid for delaying. As
the clouds settled, the snowy tops of the far off
mountains came up above the great ocean of
mist. We never had one continuous view of
all the ranges and diversity of scenery at one
time, but a goodly sight at one point which
would be obscured as another broke into sight
in some other direction. There are days in
which the circuit within view is three hundred
miles.
	As the morning crept on we were apparent-
ly lifted into the sunshine. The clouds rolled
themselves together below our feet, then reced-
ed, and again gathered themselves into solid
masses. As we stood in the golden light of
that beautiful morning we knew that there
were those only a little way below who were
wrapt in shadow. While darkness and dis-
comfort were their portion, the silver lining of
the clouds which were enfolding them was a
vision of beauty to us. Perhaps we shall find
out some day that our standpoints in this
world may affect our vision.
—Ex.					RUTH RANDOM.


16	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Relief Society Conference of this Stake
of Zion will be held in the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Rooms on Friday, June 22nd, and
a prompt attendance of officers from the sever-
al branches is desired. Brethren and sisters
are cordially invited.
	THE Primary Associations of this Stake will


hold their Conference Saturday morning, in
the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, commencing at
ten a.m. By request of the President, Mrs.
Ellen C. Clawson, we invite the several Associ-
ations in the city and throughout the Stake
to bring as many of the children as can con-
veniently come. Every Association should be
well represented.
	THE Y. L. M. I. A. will hold their Confer-
ence Saturday afternoon, in rhe Assembly
Hall, and Mrs. Mary A. Freeze, the President
would be glad to see all the Associations well
represented by members, and most cordially
extends an invitation to all to attend, especial-
ly the young people of this city, and Salt
Lake Stake.
	MRS. Lockwood's speech occupies so much
space that we are obliged to leave other matter
over until next issue, but we think it eminent-
ly proper that the women of Utah should
know how forcibly she has spoken in the their
behalf.
	THE preparations for the two grand Con-
certs in the large Tabernacle on the 24th of
July are going forward under the able direc-
tion of Brother Evan Stephens and Elder
George Goddard with the Committees appoint-
ed for the purpose. Mrs. Priscilla Jennings
acts as chairman of the "Ways and Means
Committee" to represent the Deseret Hospital
interest in the affair, these ladies have the cos-
tumes and colors to arrange to represent the
different nationalities.


[Column 1]
MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
Office and residence. 11th Ward, 7 blocks east
of the Deseret National bank, and a half
block north, west side of the street.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.

﻿KNITTING FACTORY,
On 1st W. Ct., 2d and 3d North, Next Door South of W. H. Hooper's.
Men's Socks, Ladies' and Childrens' Stockings, Infants
Knitted Shirts and Shoes, Ladies' and Children's Hoods,
etc. Family Knitting done on Reasonable Terms.
CAROLINE C. RALEIGH,
19th WARD, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
	Blankets, 	Brown yarns		Cotton Batting,
	Flannels, 	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
	Shawls, 		Colored Yarns, 	Brooms,
	Linseys, 	Cassimers, 		Washboards,
	Jeans, 		Tweeds, 		Brushes, Etc., Etc.

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER,

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

ELLEN B. FURGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office and Residence on 2d South between 3d
and 4d East Streets.

Special Study has been given to SURGERY, DISEASES
OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNCS.
☞ Can be Called by Telephone Day or Night.

[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS ADN WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
☞ We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
WW. JENNINGS, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fants shoes,
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

[image of store]
HENRY DINWOODEY.
FURNITURE,
WALL PAPER,
CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUINS
AND WINDOW CORNIOES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY.

F Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods,
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS,
☞ CALL AND EXAMINE. ☜


[handwritten] Hisben's Ceffier

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

﻿The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 12.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1, 1883.	No. 3.


THE ARTIST CHILD.

"What are you doing, Bosque?"
	Gently he turned his head,
And I saw 'neath his little fingers
	Pencil and paper spread.
"And may I see your picture?"
	Then as he gave it to me
A shade came over the drooping face
	'Twas pitiful to see.

And then a thrill went through me,
	For I that place had seen,
Its walls loom up and seem to blot
	The valley wide and green.
And yet I asked him gently,
	"What do you call this place?"
"Its where they are keeping my father;"
	And turned away his face.

Six years old! But upon his head
	And in his childish breast,
That which would weigh a man's strong heart
	Upon his life doth rest.	
Think of it! While his comrades
	Played at their game of ball,
He, scarce more than a babe, sat alone,
	Sketching a prison wall!

Pictures for memory! Look,
	What will they be for him?
Those gloomy walls will unshaken stand
	When fairer scenes are dim.
Sunk in his soul's deep silence,
	Who can the growth foretell,
When years from now shall this artist paint
	The woes of Israel.

Christendom, reading bibles—
	Boast the advance you've made—
Again in the walls of our masters
	Our children's hearts are laid.
Heroes who left to us freedom!
	Look down on us to-day,
Where tyranny's graft on Liberty's tree
	Wasteth its life away.

Brick for brick as they stand there—
	Tower, and gate, and lock—
Theres a wall in Israel's soul
	That doth the tyrant mock.
Closer they stand together,
	Nor doubt, nor shrink to go
Through waters deep, and fear none but Him
Who will o'erwhelm the foe.
				AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
May 22nd, 1883.


[Column 1]
THOUGHTS ON MARRIAGE.

	The May 15th number of the EXPONENT
contains an article entitled, "Young Ladies and
Matrimony," which I think every young lady
should read, and follow the advice there given.
The writer says, "a woman who marries a man
that is her inferior, wrongs herself, her family,
and her whole life, for he will most likely drag
her down to his level." It must be so in the
very nature of things. A woman who has no
other object or aim than to live the life of a
true Latter-day Saint, and work out for herself
an exaltation in the Celestial Kingdom of God,
and feels the full weight of the responsibility
which she takes upon herself when she enters
into the marriage covenant, to bear the souls
of men, heirs to the everlasting Priesthood,
makes no other calculation than to be one with
her husband in all things, for "except ye are
one ye are not mine," said our Savior. She
looks for a man who is faithful. She marries
one professing full faith in the gospel, profes-

[Column 2]
sing to be virtuous and good, knowing by her
course of conduct in life what standard he
must come up to in order to become her hus-
band, he is all that and more too, he has no
vices, if he has any bad habits she cannot find
them out, when he approaches her he is all
goodness; when she is united to him she strives
with all her might to be one with him in all
things, after she becomes better acquainted
with him and sees that he is not what he pro-
fesses to be, although her whole soul revolts at
the hypocrisy (for hypocrisy is always detesta-
ble to a pure mind) still she remembers the
covenants she has entered into with him, they
must not be lightly broken, although he may
ignore them every day she must cling to him
as long as there is a reasonable doubt in her
mind about whether she would be doing him
an injustice by leaving him; in trying honestly
before God to keep her covenants and be one
with him, she descends to his level, and until
she has strength to break loose from the in-
fluences by which she is surrounded and say,
"as for me I will serve the Lord," she is not
her natural self, she is influenced and directed
by him, as is right and proper, as I contend,
that when a woman finds out that a man is not
worthy of her love and obedience, she commits
a sin by living with him; and on the other
hand I think she is not justified and should
never separate herself from him until she is
satisfied of this fact beyond a doubt. Young
ladies will ask, how can we safely choose a
husband if men are so deceitful? There are
many safeguards thrown around the children
of the Latter-day Saints which those of
the world are not blest with. First, their
parents generally give them good counsel,
which if they heed will lead them in the path of
safety, then those to whom they wish to be uni-
ted, live in some ward or branch of the Church
where there are presiding officers who can
recommend them if they have been faithful in
the discharge of their duties in the church,
(and if they have not they had better have
nothing to do with them) then last, but not
least, there is the Holy Ghost, the Comforter,
that has been conferred upon every soul that
has been baptized into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, by those holding
the authority of the Holy Priesthood, a con-
stant source of revelation to those who nourish
and cherish it and give heed to its promptings;
what! can young ladies receive revelations?
Yes; just as well as the President of the
Church, or the Bishop of a ward can in the
affairs that come within their sphere, but only
as pertains to their own affairs in life, and
what is of more importance to them than
choosing a partner for life? no! for time and
all eternity. Pray about it? Yes, is it not as
important the Lord should guide us in the
choice of a husband as it is that he should pro-
tect us through the day from accident, disease,
and death? Pray as well as watch. She says,
"marry for love, respect is all very well, and
that we should have and hold, but it will not
answer in place of affection." I agree with
her, but there is no lasting love that is not
based on respect, we may love a person for
their fancied virtues, and when we find an ab-
scence of them we lose the respect we enter-
tained for them, then love must die. "The
flower of love can never flourish except it is
moistened by the dews of admiration and res-
pect." Young ladies, do not think that you
alone are sufficient to make a selection, remem-

[Column 3]
ber that God is the father of your spirits and
the spirits of all men; He knows their hearts,
their most seeret thoughts, their aims, their
principles, and he knows yours also, he knows
the end from the beginning, he knows whom
you are fitted to mate with, he is the best
match-maker that I know of. Trust him and he
will not forsake you. Now some people (wise
people no doubt in some things) ridicule the
idea of love. (From being united to such de-
liver me." One of the greatest commandments
which our Father gave to his children was to
"Love the Lord our God with all our might,
mind and strength, and love our neighbors as
ourselves, (if this commandment was strictly
carried out we would love them better than we
do.) He so loved the world that he gave His
only Begotten Son as a ransom for us, He so
loved us that he created this beautiful earth
and placed us upon it, with our agency, the
privilege of doing as we pleased, commanding
us to do right, and keep his laws, but giving us
the power to rebel if we choose to do so, that we
might choose the good or the evil, that we may
by his help overcome our weaknesses and the
temptations of the adversary, rise in the scale
of intelligence, and finally become like Him,
and return home when we are fitted to enjoy
His presence and have finished our probation
here. Trials are necessary for our perfection,
and the Lord will try us, (if we are worthy of
trials) in whatever condition we may be
placed, but his grace is all sufficient.
	What among all the pleasures which this
world affords, can equal that of being sur-
rounded by loving kindred and friends, and
what has ever been revealed by our Father
that has given such exquisite joy as the knowl-
edge that husbands and wives who are united
together in the bonds of the new and everlast-
ing covenant will enjoy each others society,
not only "till death does them part," but
through all the countless ages of eternity, and
that instead of that love which they have for
each other growing dim with age, it will grow
brighter and stronger as our latent powers are
more fully developed and we assimilate more
to the likeness of Him who is the author of
our being. Why, it is the mainspring of all
other joys! I cannot believe that there can
be a perfect love that does not come from God,
and is not inspired by His Spirit.
	Oh! what can be more pitiable than the
condition of those who have no assurance of a
union with those they love beyond the grave.
What would eternal life be without the com-
panionship of loved ones? Eternal misery.
	Do not attempt to reform bad men; what
God has failed to do, and they have no dispo-
sition to do for themselves, you can never ac-
complish. Make yourselves worthy of the
best of men and then resolve with the help of
God to accept no other, nobler far would it be
to labor all your days and share with others;
accept plural marriage with a husband who
has been tried and proven, whose integrity to
the kingdom of God is known, and feel you
have made a success of your life, have accom-
plished the object for which you came here,
have secured eternal life, than fail in this and
gain the wealth of the world.		RUTH.


The Woman's Journal of June 16 ult., con-
tains an article concerning woman suffrage in
Utah, and refers to two other articles written
by ladies opposed to women voting.


14 

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

SCENES IN NAUVOO, AND INCIDENTS
FROM H. C. KIMBALL'S JOURNAL.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	The following interesting events written by
my father as they transpired, will, no doubt,
be read with interest by the Latter-day
Saints.
	"Tuesday, December 9th. The Twelve
met in counsel at Willard Richards' with two
Catholics; Mr. Tucker of Quincy, and Mr.
Hamilton, of Springfield, who came to con-
tract for our city."
	"Wednesday, 10th. Father wrote—This
morning went up to the Temple in company
with my wife and Sister Whitney—the morn-
ing very fine but cold. * * Found
President B. Young and a number of the
brethren. * * About half past ten
it was reported that Priest Tucker and his as-
sociates were below, waiting an interview with
the Twelve and council. Mr. Tucker and Mr.
Hamilton were admitted into the upper rooms
of the Temple, accompanied by Bishop Joseph
Heywood, who gave the gentlemen an introduc-
tion to those present. The propositions of the
council in regard to the sale of our property
were presented to Mr. Tucker in writing, who
read them over and then handed them to Mr.
Hamilton, who also read them. The gentle-
men were then invited into President Young's
room—present, besides the Twelve, were
George Miller, John M. Bernhisel, Joseph L.
Heywood and William Clayton.
	Mr. Tucker made some observations respect-
ing the two main rooms of the Temple. * *
President Young replied and explained in re-
gard to that matter, also the pulpits, place for
the organ etc.,and also the side rooms. Mr.
Hamilton asked a question as to the disposal
of our public buildings. In answer to which
Elder Hyde read aloud the written proposi-
tion and offered some explanations. * * *
President Young remarked that we wished to
realize, from the sale of our property, sufficient
to take all our poor with us in a comfortable
manner. If he was alone he could take his
wife with him and make his way to the Pacific
with little difficulty, but at the same time he
did not wish to do it. He would rather have
his wagons and go with all the rest of the
church comfortably. Mr. Tucker said he
thought it would be wisdom to publish our
propositions in all the Catholic papers and lay
the matter plain before their people—should
also think it advisable for the Catholic Bishops
to send a competent committee to ascertain the
value of our property etc. At the same time
they would use all their influence to effect a
sale as speedily as possible—thinks they have
men in St. Louis; New York and other cities,
who could soon raise the amount we want, but
the time is so very short, he does not know
whether it can be done so soon. He then asked
if we would be willing to have our propositions
published in their papers. President Young
replied we should have no objections, providing
it was understood that we reserved the right to
sell when we had the chance—Elder P. P.
Pratt thought it would be well to talk over the
propositions and investfgate them, so as to
have everything perfectly and clearly under-
stood. Mr Hamilton wished to ascertain upon
what conditions they could obtain two of our
public buildings—one for a school and one for
a church. * * * President Young
said he was well aware that there were many
men in the Catholic Church who could furnish
all the money we would want at once, but he
supposed it was with them as it was with a Mr.
Butler, who owned a wealthy bank, when asked
why he did not sign off more bills, he replied,
it was a good deal of trouble to sign off bills.
He supposed it was too much trouble for them

[Column 2]

to dig their money out of their vaults; but he
wished it understood that while we make a
liberal propositien to dispose of our property,
we must have the means to help ourselves
away.
	Mr. Tucker said their object was to write to
each Bishop and enclose our propositions in a
letter, at the same time advising him either to
come himself or to appoint a committee of
efficient men to come and value the property,
and enter into terms for a final agreement.
He said the sum to be raised was large, and
the time very short, * * but thinks
it can be accomplished—thinks they could be
able to give us a decided answer by the 25th
inst.
	President Young said he would like to add
a note to our proposals before they go for pub-
lication, to this effect: That if they agree to
our propositions we will lease them the Temple
for a period of from five to thirty-five years, at
a reasonable price, the rent to be paid in
finishing the unfinished parts of the Tem-
ple, the wall around the Temple Block and the
block west of the Temple and keeping the
Temple in repair. The council agreed to the
amendment, which was accordingly added to
the proposals and handed to Mr. Tucker.
Mr. Tucker seemed to give much encourage-
ment that an arrangement would speedily be
entered into to accomplish what we want.
Both the gentlemen seem highly pleased with
the Temple aud the city, and appear to feel
sanguine that the Catholics should get this
Temple and vicinity. About half past twelve
they departed, evidently feeling well to-
ward us. * * * * * *
	At a quarter to four, Elder Hyde came into
my room and brought tidings that our sherriff J.
B. Backenstos was clear and acquited. The
jury said if there had been no witnesses only
on the part of the State it would not have re-
quired two minutes to have made up their ver-
dict. They have got two of the mob witnesses
in jail for perjury, and Backenstos has gone to
Springfield to request the Governor to with-
draw his troops."
	"About half past one o'clock, father says,
Mother Lucy Smith, the mother of the Prophet,
arrived; * * the first time that the
old lady has been in the attic. She with Sister
Agnes, the widow of Don C. Smith, Sister
Mary, widow of Hyrum, her sister Mercy
Thompson and Elizabeth Ann Whitney took
lunch with my father and mother. He wrote,
Mother Smith says, "Write that I ate hearty."
He continues, all the rooms are nicely carpeted
and have a very splendid and comfortable ap-
pearance. * * * At three o'clock
Sister Mary Ann Young, Vilate Kimball and
Elizabeth Ann Whitney commenced washing
and anointing each other—being the first in
the Holy Temple of the Lord." We are here
reminded of the Prophet Joseph's words that
"The sisters are always first in all good works."
At twenty-five minutes past four o'clock Presi-
dent B. Young and H. C. Kimball commenced
washing and anointing Elder Willard Rich-
ards. Mother Smith went through the Holy
ordinances that evening with those who have
been previously mentioned as receiving them
in the life-time of the Prophet, so my father
wrote, and that some retired early, and the rest
continued working till half past three in
the morning, when President Young and all
present knelt down and, A. Lyman being
mouth, offered up prayer and praise to the
Most High, for his goodness. Father says," B.
Young and wife, H. C. Kimball and George
A. Smith, also Sister Mary Smith, her sister,
Mercy R. Thompson and W. W. Pheps and
his wife tarried in the Temple all night. We
only obtained about an hour and a half sleep.
In the morning Sister Young and the others
went home; B. Young and myself went to
Joseph Kingsbury's and ate breakfast, * *

[Column 3]

returned back to the Temple and found several
of the brethren and sisters had come in to re-
ceive their endowments. * * Sister
Vilate Kimball and Elisabeth Ann Whitney,
attended to the * * females. At
one o'clock Elder Orson Pratt came in; he has
just returned from his mission to the east."
Some portions of father's journal were written
by William Clayton. He wrote, "After we
got through President Young called the follow-
ing persons into Heber's room viz. H. C. Kim-
ball, P. P. Pratt, John Taylor, O. Hyde John
E. Page, George A. Smith, Amasa Lyman,
Newel K. Whitney, George Miller and Wil-
liam Clayton. The President then stated that
he had received a letter from Samual Brannan,
saying that he had been to Washington and
had learned that the Secretary of War and
the heads of the government were laying plans
and were determined to prevent our moving
west; alleging that it is against the law for an
armed body of men to go from the United
States to any other government. They say it
will not do to let the Mormons go to Calfornia
nor Orogon, neither will it do to let them
taary in the States, and they must be extermin-
ated from the face of the earth."
	To all earthly appearance we were then to
be scattered or wiped out of existence. We
were but a little handful and no power to look
to but to the Omnipotent, whose hand had
thus far kept us together and not the power of
man. But He, in his infinite mercy, had en-
dowed them and given them the key by which
his faithful servants and handmaidens could
approach nearer to His throne, and find
greater favor, because of their humble obedi-
ence to His laws and requirements. Father
says, "We prayed that the Lord would defeat
and frustrate all the plans of our enemies, and
inasmuch as they make plots and lay plans to
exterminate this people and destroy the priest-
hood from off the earth, that the curse of God
may come upon them, even all the evil which
they design to bring upon this people, and that
the Lord would preserve the lives of His ser-
vants and lead us out of this ungodly nation
in peace." After we got through there was a
unanimous feeling that the Lord would answer
our prayers and defeat our enemies. President
Young said we should go away from here in
peace in spite of our enemies.
	The holy ordinances of the Priesthood are
the things most dreaded by the enemies of
all righteousness, and it is him (the father of
lies) who is at work stirring up the hearts of
men to destroy it from off the earth. The Lat-
ter-day Saints are prepared for this and know
that he will leave no stone unturned to accom-
plish this end. How plainly we can see his
workings in the efforts made in these days by
his agents to stop not only the legitimate emi-
gration from the spirit world but also the hon-
est in heart from the various nations of the
earth; but how feeble are their efforts—Consul
Mason for instance trying to prove that "Mor-
mon" missionaries are bringing "over paupers
for wives," etc., but they all prove abortive,
and in the very course they are pursuing they
are inadvertantly publishing the Gospel truths.
and making proselytes faster even than the
missionaries can do; and we can’t but repeat
these words, "God works in a mysterious way
his wonders to perform." Because the keys of
the Priesthood which were to be conferred
upon Aaron and his seed have been handed
down and administered to the Latter-day
Saints, and because the faithful portion are
still determined to be faithful and true to the
sacred covenants which were made in the
Temple of our God, we are to be threatened,
harassed and persecuted to the bitter end.
	To be Continued.


County Convention on July 14th. Primary
meetings on July 10th. Ladies attend.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 1519


TO TIME.

Ho, ruthless invader! say whither away,
With thy merciless scythe and thy locks of gray?
Canst thou not for a moment prolong thy career
Ere thou takest the life of the dying year?
Hold thy shad'wy wings, and pause in thy flight
Ere thou givest this day to an endless night.
Dost thou feel no remorse as thou fleest by,
Has thy heart no throb, thy soul no sigh,
To give, as a tribute, to the last, the lone,
To the ruined tower with moss o'ergrown,
To the widow in tears for the life-blood shed,
To the orphan who mourns a parent dead,
To the childless sire whose son has found
A coffinless grave on the battle ground,
Or the wounded soldier who vainly cries
For a glimpse of home ere his spirit flies
To that land where peace immortal smiles,	
And the syren's fame no more beguiles,
To the drooping form of the maiden fair,
Or the fading flowers that deck her hair?
Can that lovely child on its mother's knee,
With its dying smile win no tear from thee?
Dost thou feel no pang for the wife's appeal,
As her midnight prayer on the low winds steal,
That he she so fondly trusted may
Repay that trust at no distant day?
Thou hast visited yon majestic tree,
And that yawning rent was made by thee,
That towering pile on the upland brow
Shows the mark of thy blasting finger now,
And the stately form of its master bends
'Neath thy withering touch as he slowly wends
His way where the hungry, old ivy crawls
To his gorgeous feast on the crumbling walls,
Thou hast sprinkled with silver my own dark hair,
And the once smooth cheek thy wrinkles bear,
And the form that in youth seemed to laugh thee to
	scorn
Is bent as before thee 'tis onward borne.
Yet thou art defied, yes, tyrant thou,
That feeble form with a furrowed brow
Hath a spirit that laughs thy seythe to scorn,
A soul that lived ere thou wert born,
A mind that can soar to the end of Time,
And in fancy hear thy funeral chime,
Thou may'st gambol, grim shade, with this mutable
									ball,

But not with the hand that made it, all
Thy power is crushed when he deigns to shew
How thy flight is confined to this sphere below.
Then linger a moment, tho' thy footsteps are seen
In the halls of kings and the village green;
Thou art monarch of this frail world of ours,
Of its loftiest domes and its tiniest flowers,
But a mightier monarch than thou hast decreed
That the soul of man from its spirit freed
Shall ignore thy power and rise above
Thy tireless wing to a home of love,
Where thy name is not heard or thy footsteps seen,
And the land is dressed in eternity's green.
								M. A. YAULTON.
	London.


(Column 1)
﻿IS THIS A LAND OF LIBERTY?
Where are thy far-famed laws, Columbia?
Where thy boasted freedom, thy protecting
care? Is this a land of rights, stern facts shall
say, when defenceless women are dragged from
their homes and placed in a prison; the sacred-
nes3 of their homes and firesides invaded by
those who should be the ones to protect them,well
may we ask the onestion, where is the spirit
of 76? where is the spirit of a Washington?
where ! oh where! is the spirit that animated
the framers of the glorious Constitution  of
America? Have our forefathers bled and died
in vain? Is there not enough of the spirit of
freedom left in the land to denounce such
high-minded oppression? Oh! ye Statesmen,
ye Legislators and rulers, pause and reflect ere
it be too late, and know that the Lord God of
Heaven rules and controls the nations of the
earth, that kingdoms, principalities and powers
of the earth are under his divine will. And
do ye not know that he inspired the framers
of the Constitution of America by the power
(Column 2)
of his will? Don’t think that He will allow
the Flag of Liberty, the ensign of freedom to
be dragged in the mire and trampled under
foot with impunity. No, the Lord will come
out of his hiding place and vex the nation,
and unless they repent he will send dire dis-
truction, plagues, famine and woe in their
midst, until they will be obliged to acknowl-
edge his almighty power.
	Upon what charge did the officers arrest
Belle Harris? None. What right had any
court, jury, or lawyer to pry into her private
affairs? None. And because she refused to
answer a question that was an insult in itself,
she was sent to the penitentiary, “for contempt
of court,” “to maintain the dignity of the
conrt,” ‘oh consistency, thou art a jewel.” It
was true dignity and chivalry combined that
refused bail to a lady brought into court with-
out any charge, only suspicion. 	*	*
“Thou carest uot much for character,
Thy aim is how to destroy,
And that by treacherous stealth.”
	We say to our sister Belle, put your trust in
that God who has watched over his Saints and
protected them from time to time from their
enemies, and be sure that the prayers of your
sisters are ascending up to the throne of grace
that you may have strength and fortitude to
maintain the principles of liberty and freedom
to which you were born a citizen of the Uni-
ted States. Stand firm to your integrity as a
daughter of the Republic, having a right to
the protection of this government against all
the encroachments upon the sacredness of
your home and fireside; and as a daughter of
Zion you know that those who suffer persecu-
tion for Christ’s sake, great shall be their re-
ward in heaven.
	The Almighty holds the helm, and He has
said through his prophet in this our day, that
inasmuch as we live our religion inviolate aud
keep his commandments He will be our God,
and we shall be his people, then why should
we despond? With God our Heavenly Father
for our friend, what will it matter if the whole
world be against us? Poor, weak, puny man
to fight against God, when their very breath
depends upon his mercy, they are measuring
arms with God, and He will smite them by the
power of his word, unless they repent in sack-
cloth; the cries of the daughters of Zion are as-
cending to the throne of God, saying, how long,
oh Lord, shall the cry of thy people ascend
before thy throne for redress for the wrongs
they have endured? But not our will be done,
but Thine. Most just and merciful Father, we
thy people trust in thee, we have confidence
in thee, and submit humbly to thy decree; at
the same time we contend for our rights, and
protest against the unconstitutionality of the
proceedings being euacted against us as a peo-
ple; we protest against all invasions of our
rights granted to us by the constitution; as
Americans we claim the right of protection
from all invasion of our rights, we ask, why
such p distinction between a Latter-day Saint
and a Gentile? Belle Harris was put in a
common prison where the worst of crimanals
are imprisoned, although not occupying the
same apartments, while a man charged with
bigamy is scarcely tried, and is left to run at
large in the commnnity and impose upon
the people. We think with the “Record
Union” “that the officers do show that the full
rigor of the law is enforced upon supposed
criminals when they are Mormons, and the
rigor is relaxed in the case of a Gentile crim-
inal.” The case does not show well for our
Federal officers.  It is the old cry, as it was in
the days of Christ when the Jews cried, “His
blood be upon us.” It is. the same spirit that
put our Savior to death; the same spirit that
killed the prophets and apostles in the days of
Jesus; the same that killed our Prophet and 
(Column three)
Patriarch in Nauvoo, and has put to death so
many of our brethren and sisters, and drove
them from State to State until they thought
they had driven them to their death beyond 
the Rocky Mountains, where no white men 
could live as they thought, but the Lord was
with his people and led them to a land where
they could be independant, and they have pros-
pered until they have become a power in the 
nation which has vexed them: so the adversary
is prompting them to annoy and raise a hue
and cry, it is a warfare between  the powers of 
darkness and the hosts of heaven, and it will 
continue until the kingdoms of this world are 
subdued and brought into subjection to the 
kingdom of heaven, and He reigns whose
right it is to reign of rightousness established upon 
the earth-. Them let us rejoice in the God of
our salvation, knowing that ere long the Lord
will appear in his glory to reward the faithful,  
	and to cleanse the earth from wickedness and 
corruption, and reign triumphantly a Conquer-
or. 
	Praying for the success of the EXPONENT
and the welfare of Zion, 
			Retpeetfully you sister, 
				SARAH A. FULLMER.
O[-]angeville, Emery Co., June 5th, 1883.


A PLEASANT PARTY.

	On the first of May the Primary Association
of the First Ward of Richfield with their presi-
dent and Second Counselor arranged a party
in honor of Sister Ruth Hayward’s birthday,
on that day she was sixty-nine years old; she is
first Counselor in the Primary Association.
She has been very faithful and interested for
the association, in teaching the children the
principles of truth. The children made the
day very pleasant with their songs, recitations,
dialogues, etc. Great credit is due the children
for their good order and the love they ex-
pressed to the aged. A number of the leading
sisters were present, and made some very en-
couraging remarks; also many of the parents
of the children were present.
	Sister Hayward was presented with some
presents, selected from the store by the Primary
girls; also many tokens of love. Sister Hay-
ward in a kind and motherly way expressed
her thanks for the honor and respect they had
shown her. Asked the Lord to bless the child-
ren. A bounteous picnic was then passed to
all in the house. The afternoon passed off
harmoniously, making in all a very pleasant
time.						MARIA.
	Richfield, Sevier Co., Utah, May 30th, 1883


A meeting of the lineal descendants of Gov.
William Bradford of Plymouth Rock, was
held in Cleveland, Ohio, May 10th, 1883. At
that meeting it was decided to publish a his-
tory of this distinguished family- All des-
cendants of the Bradford family are invited
to forward names and any facts of interest to
the secretary, S. B. Bradford, Carbondale,
Kansas, or the historian, Mrs. Lester V. King,
Auburn, New York. Any one disposed to
contribute means toward the history will
please send it to the treasurer and receiv-
er, Wm. Bradford Leach, Chilicothe, Mo.
	Mrs. Elmira Pinkham Tuft, feels to corres-
pond and assist in this matter. She is a lineal
descendant. Her grandmother was Abigail
Sterling Bradford; her own mother Betsy
Bradford Pinkham. Mrs. Tuft is also one
of the descendants of Tristram and Dyonis
Coffin. She is much interested in the subject
of geneaology.
	June 28th was the anniversary of the birth-
day of Sister Marinda N. Hyde, one of the
early members of the Church.


16 20	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
﻿
THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	JULY 1, 1883.


﻿IS IT IGNORANCE?

	It seems a very common thing with people
unaquainted with the facts to say, it is the ig-
norance of "Mormon" women "that keeps them
in bondage," that "makes them submit to plural
marriage;" when in truth the very contrary is
the case. It is because of the intelligence they
possess on subjects connected with their exist-
ence here and hereafter, as well as that of their
posterity and kindred, the hopes entertained,
and the actual knowledge concerning the future
that causes them to embrace a doctrine so un-
popular and so objectionable in the eyes of the
world. Such paragraphs as the following and
similar ones abound in the newspapers and
journals of the day: "It was hoped by giving
the women of Utah the ballot they would use it
for the destruction of the monster, which keeps
them under its iron heel, in hopeless misery."
These people may be well meaning, but they
talk nonsense and folly in the extreme. Who
are the "Mormon" women, who accepted plural
marriage when the principle was first revealed
to the Prophet Joseph, and taught to a few of
of the people called Latter-day Saints?
	They were just such sound, practical, intelli-
gent women as the foremothers of New Eng-
land and the women pioneers of those Eastern
States. Women prepared to encounter hard-
ships and privation, perils by land and sea for
the sake of the religion in which they devoutly
and implicitly believed. Aye, more! Deter-
mined not only to make the sacrifices incident
to all these sufferings, but still further to prove
their integrity to God by denying themselves
that others might be benefitted and exalted. Is
not this an actual demonstration of that golden
rule the Savior gave to his followers: "Do unto
others as ye would they should do unto you."
These noble women are like other good, pure,
virtuous women, industrially, morally and in-
telluctually. Religiously they are far above
them in the graces which elevate and adorn
human character. It is no wonder that contem-
plating these noble-minded women many are
led to exclaim, "it is not possible that you are
like us, for if you were you could not live in
such relationships." To esteem others equally
with yourself is necessary; to consider the rights
and privileges of those with whom you are as-
sociated as is requisite in one great family.
The women who entered into these sacred cov-
enants of marriage for time and all eternity ac-
cepted this holy order as a divine revelation
and commandment, and in all sincerety, with
the purest motives obeyed the same. To be
sure there has another generation grown up
since the establishment of the principle of ce-
lestial marriage, but has America any reason to
be ashamed of these young people? "By their
fruits ye shall know them, said the Savior."
Do they lack in natural intelligence, in physical
strength or vigor, or in any particular? Have
they not all the gifts and attributes that go to
make up nobility of character in men and
women? No one can say to the contrary and
speak truthfully.
	Speaking of the emigration from other coun-
tries, what difference is there here in Utah more
than elsewhere? None, except it be that Mormons
do more to assist foreign popluation in becoming
good citizens, and adapting themselves to the
conditions of the country. They are taught
more carefully and specifically in relation to the
laws and government of the country. This is a 
result of the perfect and thorough organization
of the Church itself, both with men and women;
There is every opportunity of becoming enlight-
ened on all general subjects. Mormon girls and
women have as sensible ideas upon marriage as
any people in the civilized world. They are
thoroughly taught and instructed to consider
well before accepting this sacred rite, and to
choose wisely. More particalarly are they
cautioned in this regard, because, the covenants
they make are not only for time, but reach into
eternity. It is an important matter to make
choice of a companion for this life, but how
much more so does it become when the union is
an eternal one. In order to investigate the "Mor-
mon" question it is essentially necessary to
know the people themselves, and not accept
testimony of reporters, tourists and sensational
writers, nor yet of political demagogues, whose
sole aim is to make capital by the votes of the
Territory, and turn everything into the hands
of their own party. "Mormon" peeple have
rights under the Constitution, and they will
seek to maintain them, women as well as men.
If anyone supposes these same women citizens
to be ignorant of the rights the ballot gives
them, then they know very little about the
women of this Territory, and our advice to them
is, let the matter rest until you have an oppor-
tunity of solving the problem by thorough in-
vestigation, and not from one side, and remem-
ber the words of the Savior, "Judge not, lest
ye be judged."


[Column 1]
﻿HOME AFFAIRS.

	"A Venerable Woman" is again omitted for
want of time to prepare the copy, but we have
some interesting items for the next issue.
	Independence Day, the glorious Fourth, is to
be celebrated at Fort Douglas with music, songs,
orations, reading of the Declaration of Indepen-
dence and other appropriate demonstrations of
a like character. Various games and amuse-
ments for the young people make a desirable
programme.
	ON Saturday, June 10th, Sisters M. P. Young,
E. C. Clawson and C. Cobb attended a special
meeting at East Mill Creek, called for the pur-
pose of organizing a Primary Association. Bish-
op Neff presided and Sister Clawson organized.
The following officers were unanimously sus-
tained: Fanny E. Oliver, President; F. M. Neff
and E. E. Fisher, Counselors; Mamie Neff, Sec-
retary; Eva Fisher, Treasurer. Twenty-seven
members were enrolled.
	PREPERATIONS are going steadily on for the
concerts in the Tabernacle in this city on the
24th of July. They will be very interesting in-
deed; one thousond or more of the sweet sing-
ers of Zion in the choruses will surely be an at-
traction. The best orchestral music and the
most popular singers Utah can boast will take
part in the programme. Posters and pro-
grammes will soon bo issued. The concerts are
under the direction of Evan Stephens, the
children's favorite.

[Column 2]
	CORRECTION: In the EXPONENT of June 15th,
on 3rd column of 1st page, 23rd line, the word
AND has been omitted, altering the sense
somewhat; the word AND should be inserted
so as to make it read, "there and at Brigham
Young's"
	THE Tenth book of the Faith Promoting
Series has been issued recently from the Juven-
ile Instructor Office. It is entitled, "Scraps of
Biography," and contains, "Sketch of an El-
der's Life," Father John Tanner; "Incidents of
Experience," Daniel Tyler; and Newel
Knight’s Journal. The book is exceedingly in-
teresting, containing many powerful testimo-
nies to the truth, the healing of the sick,
prophecies fulfilled and manifestations calcula-
ted to strengthen the faith of the young.
These excellent works should be in the homes
of all the Latter-day Saints, and certainly in
the libraries of the young folks.
	Sisters P. L. Kimball and H. M. Whitney
attended the Ladies Conference of Tooele Stake,
held at Grantsville, Saturday and Sunday.
There was a good attendance and an excellent
feeling among the people. On Monday the sis-
ters went over to Tooele and met with each of
the organizations' Relief Society, Y. L. M. I.
A. and P. A. From there to Pine Canyon,
where they had three meetings again, then at
St. Johns, and then at Vernon. On returning
they attended a meeting at Clover Creek where
Bishop de St. Joer organized a Relief Society,
with Mrs. Jemima Stookey as president. While
in the Stake the sisters visited among the sick
and administered to many, comforting and en-
couraging the sisters in their labors. We have
some reports for publication, but have not space
in this issue.
	ON Wednesday, January 20th, two Women's
meetings were held in Farmer's Ward, one at
ten a.m. to reorganize the Primary Association.
Mrs. Sarah Ann Cannon, the former Presi-
dent having resigned on account of moving
from the Ward, Mrs. Reba Pratt was chosen to
act aa President. Sisters Zina D. H. Young, M.
I. Horne, P. Woodruff, B. W. Smith, M. E.
Kimball, M. P. Young, Louie Felt, Ellen C.
Clawson and Camilla Cobb attended the meet-
ing. A sumptous dinner was prepared by the
sisters at the residence of Mrs. Angie Frink,
and at two p.m. a meeting of the Rslief Society
was held, Mrs. Emma Woodruff presiding.
	TUESDAY, June 19th, a meeting was held in
the Seventh Ward school house, Bishop Wm.
Thorne presiding, for the purpose of reorganizing
the Relief Society. Sisters M. I. Horne and E.
B. Wells were present by invitation. Bishop
Thorne placed in nomination Mrs. Mary Alice
Lambert as President to fill the vacancy caused
by the death of the late President, Mrs. Alice
Needham. Mrs. Lambert chose as her Counsel-
ors, Mrs. Harriet Woodbury and Mrs. Annie
Dinwoodey; Mrs. Mary Alice Woodbury was
chosen as Secretary; Mrs. Ella Broadbent, As-
sistant Secretary; and Mrs. Mary Alice Lam-
bert, Treasurer. These sisters were unanimous-
ly sustained by vote, and set apart under the
hands of Bishop Thorne and Counselors, Mc-
Lachlin and Woodbury.


AN INTERESTING TRIP.
THE LAMANITES IMPROVING, RELIEF SOCIETY
NEWS— SILK INDUSTRY.
“On the morning of the 14th of May I took
train and went to Brigham City for an "out,"
and for an indefinite time. On the 19th inst.,
in company with my brother, Lorenzo Snow,
and his son Alphonso, recently returned from a
Southern mission, I went by carriage to Washa-
kie, known as "The Indian Farm," in Box Elder


County, about forty miles from Brigham City,
and arrived at Bishop Zundel's before night.
	On out way we called, and were very cordially
received and hospitably entertained, at the
the residence of Brother and Sister Standing,
the parents of the brave young missionary who
was brutally murdered in Georgia.
	The next day being Sunday, at 10 o'clock, we
all went to Sunday School, which was conducted
by Elder Moroni Ward. A few white children
were in attendance, but the school mostly con-
sisted of, not only red children of small growth,
but full grown men and women, all seeming in
earnest to learn as fast as possible. I listened to
each class separately, and, while I was deeply
struck with surprise with the progress of the
scholars, I felt no less admiration for the untir-
ing perseverance of the teachers. By request I
addressed the school for a short time, Bishop
Zundel interpreting to those that did not fully
understand.
	At two p.m. we attended meeting. After the
sacrament was administered my brother preached
a short and interesting discoure, after which
Bishop Zundel organized a Relief Society, with
Sister Elizabeth J. Zundel president, Sisters
Melissa Hunsaker and Kohn (Lamanite) Coun-
selors; Sister Harriet Chandler Secretary;
Almira Hall Treasurer.
	The time would not admit of voting in the
members that day, but I have received a report
from the secretary, saying that at the next Sun-
day meeting forty-one members were received,
thirty-five of whom are Lamanites; several of
whom expressed their gratitude in being thus
organized, and their desires to learn to keep
house and to make clothing as their white sis-
ters do.
	One impressive feature of the services in the
afternoon meeting, which we attended, must
not be overlooked, i. e., the singing, which was
all performed by a Lamanite choir of six males
and six females. With the many variationsin
their tunes, which are very peculiar, the perfec-
tion of their time is truly astonishing.
	After the meeting was dismissed, the children
were called together, and I organized a Prim-
ary Association, with the following officers:
Philena H. Zundel, President; Eliza Ward and
Almira Hall, Counselors; Phebe Zundel, Secre-
tary; Hadden Ward, Treasurer.
	We were informed that Brother Chandler is
successful here in teaching a day school, which
is well attended; he also has charge of the Sun-
day School, but was absent on a visit—we did
not see him. The Indians are very industrious
under Brother Zundel's direction. This sum-
they propose building a number of dwell-
ing houses of brick of their own manufacture,
which will advance them much in domestic im-
provement. 
	On Monday we returned to Brigham City,
stopping to noon in Honeyville at Bishop Hun-
saker's, where a number of the brethren came
in for a few minutes' sociable, and where I had
the pleasure of meeting the widow of the much
esteemed Brother David Grant. She is daughter
of Bishop H., and is now President of the Prim-
ary Association of that Ward. I need not say
that we dined sumptuously-- the Bishop's hos-
pitality is proverbial.
	On the 23rd I accompanied President Harriet
Snow and Sister Mortensen, in a light spring
wagon, a span of horses, and a young lady
driver, to Mantua; not the place where Virgil
the poet was born, but where we met a live Re-
lief Society, had a good time and returned. On
the 26th, went to Willard City with the same
wagon, team and charioteer-- attended two
meetings of Primary Conference. The children's
exercises occupied most of the time—their recita-
tions were excellent and splendidly rendered.
The Bishop and other brethren were present.
	On the 31st, Brother M. Dudley came from
Willard City, for Sister H. Snow, her daughter
Abigall and myself, and we met with a large
congregation of sisters and brethren in Relief
Society capacity.
	On the 14th of June attended Primary Con-
ference in Brigham City; two meetings with
very large attendance, excellent exercises and
a very creditable primary fair. They exhibited
many beautiful specimens combining the useful
with the ornamental.
	The next day was R. S. Conference--two
meetings well attended-- it was truly a beauti-
ful congregation for the spirit of God seemed to
beam from every countenance. The large Tab-
ernacle in which the three conferences were
held was well filled, and the wards generally
well reported.
	The 13th was the Young Ladies Conference.
I met with them in the forenoon, had a good
time, listened to very sensible remarks, made a
few myself, and in the afternoon took the train
for my home in Salt Lake city, thus terminat-
ing my one month's "out."
	I now wish to append to the forgoing the
following silk report from Brigham City:
	Christine Forsgren of the 4th Ward, in 1881,
wove twenty-one yards of all silk warp, with
silk and wool fillings. In 1882 she wove fifteen
yards, all silk. In 1883 she has woven twenty
yards of dress goods, and seven yards of satin
vesting, and has ready for the loom, material
for fifteen yards of underwear. All this she has
brought forth from the elements. All of the
work done at her home.
	Christine Christiansen of the 3rd Ward has
thirteen yards thirty-three inches wide, now in
the loom all silk for dress. About one hundred
neckties have been made in Brigham city, be-
sides a qutntity of floss.
	It is estimated that one hundred and fifty
pounds of dry cocoons have been raised in that
city in the last three years. Ellen Stark sold
$29 worth in one year. 	E. R. Snow Smith.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 21


﻿WOMAN'S CONFERENCE.

	The quarterly Conference of Relief Society
of the Salt Lake Stake convened in the Four-
teenth Ward Assembly Rooms, in this city,
Friday, June 22nd, at ten a.m. and two p.m.,
Mrs. M. I. Horne presiding. After the usual
exercises verbal reports were given by the Presi-
dents of the several societies, and remarks suit-
able to the occasion were made by Sisters E. R.
Snow Smith, Zina D H. Young, M. I. Horne,
E. S. Taylor and others, calculated to comfort
and encourage the sisters in gaining spiritual
knowledge and intelligence.
	Saturday morning at ten a.m. the Conference
of the Primary Associations was held in the As-
sembly Hall, Mrs. Ellen C. Clawson presiding.
A large number of children from the several
wards were in attendance, and some exercises
rendered. The several Presidents reported
progress in their respective Associations. The
singing was particularly good.
	The Y. L. M. I. A. Conference of this Stake
of Zion was held in the Assembly Hall in this
city, Saturday afternoon, June 23rd, 1883, Mrs.
M. A. Freeze presiding. After singing, prayer
and singing inutes of previous conference
were read and accepted, and verbal reports
given from fifteen Associations. President
Freeze made a few enconraging remarks, fol-
lowed by Mrs. E. S. Taylor and Counselor Mat-
tie Horne. Sister Jane E. Molen of Cache
Stake spoke a short time, also Sisters Louie Felt
and E. B. Wells. Sister Maria Y. Dougall was
sustained by the Conference as Counselor to


President Freeze in place of Clara Y. Conrad,
deceased. Conference was adjourned for three
months. Singing and benediction.


CORRESPONDENCE.
Burkes Garden, Tazwell Co., Va.,
				June 11th, 1883.
DEAR AUNT EM:
	Thinking you would like to hear from me, and
of my success in the missionary field, and hav-
ing just got back from a trip through Withe,
Pulaski and Giles Counties, I take the opportun-
ity of writing. I have been released from my
former field of labor, in Smythe and Bland
Counties, and have been appointed to labor in an
entire new field, where they have never heard
the Gospel. My brother Golden is traveling with
me now. We met with considerable opposition
on our trip, especially in Withe and Pulaski.
We were not able to get places to stop at over
night, only at public houses, there y having to
walk long distances in the hot son; we were
turned away from seventeen places in two days.
Could get no places to hold meetings at all; but
we never allowed ourselves to become discour-
aged, but we were determined they should have
a testimony of some kind and insisted on them
taking our tracts and reading them, thereby
leaving them no excuse as regards being igno-
rant of the Gospel. After we got into Giles Co.,
we met an entirely different kind of people, hos-
pitable and kind, those with whom we came in
contact. We tried several days to get a place to
preach in, but were unsuccesssful until  met
with a Campbellite Deacon, who gave us the
privilege of preaching in their Church, provid-
ing we would not preach Mormonism, but if we
would take the Bible all well and good; this was
easily promised. (This was a prominent man
and one of education too;) we explained to him
what Mormonism consisted of. He was con-
siderably surprised. We held our meeting, and
I had the pleasure of bearing my testimony to
the most intelligent congregation that it has
been my lot to address since I have been here;
they paid strict attention, and I could see that
our words carried conviction to their hearts and
struck tender chords. At the close of the meet-
ing a number came up to us and made them-
selves acquainted, kindly inviting us to come
and see them whenever we came through that
neighborhood. We truly felt thanklul to God
for those kind friends, raised up for us in time of
need. We made the acquaintance of some of
the best families in the Co, and were treated
kindly by them; one in particular, Mr. Daniel
Cecil, who gave us a standing invitation to come
and see him. He is a man of wealth and educa-
tion, and very liberal in his views; seemed very
anxious to read our Church Works, which we
will take pleasure in furnishing him with. We
were truly blest on our trip, and feel to thank
God from the bottom of our hearts. We have an
invitation to preach in a Presbyterian Church
as we go back.
   On our homeward trip we stopped with a Mr.
John Allen; during the night his little two year
old son was taken very sick with the flux, which
is fatal in this country. He came into our room
during the night and acted as though he wished
us to do something, said but little, turned round
and went out. As soon as we arose we stepped
into the room to inquire about the child; there
they sat, both of them, crying as though their
hearts would break; it was a very sick child in-
deed. She, Mrs. Allen, came up to me and said,
"If you can do anything for him for God’s sake
do it.” I asked them if they would like to have
us adminster to the child, they said yes. We
knelt down and prayed, then laid  our hands up
on the child, rebuking the disease in the name


of Jesus. In a few moments it sank to sleep
the fever left it; our prayers were answered.
When we left they God blessed us over and over.
I told them not to give us the praise, but God
the Eternal Father; we were only humble in-
struments in his hands. This is the second
case of healing under our hands, the other being
a lady belonging to the Church; she had been
suffering from a chronic disease of nine years
standing; she was healed immediately. These
are great testimonies to us, and we feel to give
praise where praise is due. I enjoy my labors,
and feel to be energetic and wide awake and em-
ulate the example of all good men. I have
traveled in several counties, borne my testi-
mony whenever I could get the chance. I have
a good companion in my brother, one who has
got the spirit of his mission. I feel to thank my
Father in heaven for this mission, and hope
that I can fill it with honor is the greatest de-
sire of my heart. Remember me to all inquir-
ing friends. With kind love to self and family,
I remain,
	Your affectionate nephew,
		NEWEL. W. KIMBALL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.

	DIED, in Nephi, Juab Co., June 11th, 1883, Amelia
H. Goldsbrough, wife of Brother Henry Goldsbrough.
Deceased was born December 7th, 1814, at Little Com-
mon, Yorkshire, England. Was baptized by Samuel
Wood, October 20th, 1847. Emigrated with her hus-
band in 1857 to Salt Lake City, and came to Nephi in
1863. Was called and set apart by Bishop Bryan to
preside over the Nephi Relief Society, June 23rd, 1868,
which positioe she filled with honor and satisfaction
until February 28th, 1878, when she was chosen and set
apart by President Teasdale to preside over the Juab
Stake Relief Societies, Nephi, Mona and Levan; was
faithful to her duties. She won the love and affection
of the officers and members over whom she presided.
	The remains were followed from her residence to the
Meeting House by her family and relatives, her coun-
selor and secretary, the board and teachers of the Nephi
Society, the President of Mona Society, officers of Lev-
an Society ,and members of the Nephi Society.
	President Paxman, Patriarch J. G. Bigler, C. H. Bry-
an, G. Kendall and C. Sperry made very appropriate re-
marks, aided by the Spirit of God, comforting the be-
reaved that were present, and a fervent prayer by Broth-
er Joel Grover to God onr Heavenly Father for His bles-
sings to rest upon the family and bereaved husband,
who is now on a mission to England.
	The Nephi Brass Band was in attendance, and her re-
mains were conveyed to the Cemetery, followed by her
family and many friends.						COM.

	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT, adopted by the Relief So-
ciety of Nephi, June 14th, 1883.
	Resolutions of Respect to the memory of our Stake
President, Sister Amelia Goldsbrough:
	Whereas, it has pleased Almighty God, by the hand
of death, to take from us our beloved President.
	Resolved, That we recognize in her death the loss of
an able and worthy President.
	Resolved, That we esteem her past untiring, energetic
and faithful labors in the path of duty worthy of our
highest appreciation and emulation.
	Resolved, That we, sensibly feeling our loss, sincerely
and deeply condole and sympathize with her family and
friends, and absent husband in their bereavement, and
may we long remember her good example of patience
and perseverance in the path of duty, and strive to
walk in the path she so nobly trod.
	Resolved, That these resolution be spread upon our
records, and a copy be furnished the bereaved family,
also one be sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publi-
cation. 					AMY LORETTE BIGLER,
								Stake Secretary.
	Nephi, June 14th, 1883.

	Mary M. Edlefson, beloved wife of Brother N. C. Ed-
lefson, died, May 18th, 1883, at her home in Logan,
Utah, after a long illness. She was born February 10th,
1830, at Fyen, Denmark, was married in the fall of 1851,
embraced the Gospel in February, 1858, emigrated to
Utah in 1864, located at Hyrum, Cache Co., and in the

[Column 2]
year following moved to Ovid in Bear Lake Valley. In
the year 1877 she moved with her husband and family to
Logan.
	In August, 1882 Brother Edlefson and wife were called
to St. George Temple and remained there 5 months; al-
though Sister Edlefson was in poor health during that
time she enjoyed her labors very much.
	During her stay at St. George and after her return she
anticipated much pleasure in the prospect of laboring
in the Logan Temple. Notwithstanding her poor
health after her return home, she retained her
buoyancy of spirit and ardent hope that she would
recover and continued so until a short time previous to
her demise, but when finding death inevitable she be-
came resigned and willing to die, and departed this life
in peace and the full hope of eternal life. At the time
of her death and for several years previous she acted as
one of the connselors of the Relief Society of the Fifth
Ward of Logan. Sister Edlefson was a woman of rare
ability, was possessed of qualities that are necessary
to make a good Saint, wife and mother, all of which
she was to an eminent degree. She was the mother of
nine children, four of whom are dead, those living may
be greatly blest and aided by the lustre and goodness
of her example, for during her career in the Church she en-
dured many privations, both in her own land and in Utah,
for the Gospel's sake, maintaining with her own hands
her family while her husband performed several years of
missionary labor, in the midst of which she ever mani-
fested an implicit faith in the Gospel and the ordinances
thereof, particularly was this noticeable in her recent
illness with respect to the administration of the elders,
experiencing relief upon nearly every occasion when ad-
ministered to. She was greatly respected and esteemed
by all who knew her, as is evinced by the following
memoriam:
	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT to the memory of Sister
Mary Edlefson.
	Whereas, Almighty God has seen fit to take from our
midst by the hand of death Sister Mary Edlefson.
	Therefore, be it resolved, That while we bow in hum-
ble submission to the divine will of Almighty God we
realize that we have lost by her death a friendly adviser,
a motherly counselor, and more than all, a firm and
faithful supporter of the principles of the Gospel.
	Resolved, Tnat we treasure up her past efforts in
teaching us the principles of the Gospel, and advising us
for our best good, and that we emulate her worthy
example.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be spread
upon our minutes, and one presented to the bereaved
ones.				ANNIE ANDERSON, Secretary.
	Fifth Ward Relief Society, Logan, June 6th, 1883.


[Column 1]

R S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

ASHLEY, UINTAH CO.
	On the Fourth day of March, 1883, we met
and organized a Primary Association with Sis-
ter Abigail Oakes as President; Ella Reynolds
and Mary A. Bodily, Counselors; Sister Mary
A. Shoffer, Secretary; Sister Annie Brown,
Treasurer. They were blessed and set apart
under the hands of Bishop Hatch, Bishop
Shoffer and Counselors. These brethren made
some excellent remarks and advised the sisters
to take such care and interest in these meet-
ings as would encourage the children and be a
benefit to them through life. On the First
day of May we met and had a very interesting
meeting and picnic, songs were sung, and
pieces recited, and we enjoyed ourselves very
much indeed. President Abby Oakes gave us
some very good instruction which we highly
appreciated. May the Primaries prosper, is
the heartfelt wish of your sister in the Gospel,
	MELVIE BASSETT GLINES,
		Corresponding Secretary.

LOGAN, CACHE CO.
	Report of Primary Association of Cache
Stake of Zion, held in the Logan Tabernacle,
June 2nd, 1883. On the stand were Presi-
dent Jane E. Molen, Counselors Sisters Bar-
ber and Hansen, and Sisters E. S. Taylor and
E. Howard, of Salt Lake City. Conference
opened with the usual exercises of singing

[Column 2]

and prayer, reading of minutes and the Stake
report, etc. Presidents of the varions societies
gave verbal reports, The children were cate-
chised from "Bible Questions and Answers."
	President Jane E. Molen then presented be-
fore the audience the children whom the Pri-
mary Associations of this Stake had emigrated
from England.
	Sister Taylor spoke to the children, said a
few years ago there were no prophets nor apos-
tles on the earth, and how thankful we should
be that we are permitted to come upon the
earth when God has again restored the Gospel
to earth. When we are sick we should
call in the elders to anoint and administer un-
to us, then if we are not appointed unto death
we will be healed.
	Sister Howard said she was delighted to
hear the questions so well answered; and was
very pleased to know they remembered their
prayers, for if they would always do so they
would be preserved from accident. Little
boys, do not use tobacco, for it is a filthy
weed. Obey your parents, that you may
have long lives upon the earth. Attend
your meetings regularly and spend no time
in hunting for things that should be kept in
their places, for you will be held responsible
for all the time you have on earth. Set an
example worthy of imitation by these child-
ren whom you have emigrated. Be careful
of your health, and do not expose yourselves
to the cold and wet when it is unnecessary.
Do not be cruel to animals, no matter what
kind they are. Be humble, gentle and obe-
dient at all times. Always be cheerful and
happy, then the angels will attend you.
	Sister Barber exhorted the children to
treasure up the instructions that had been
given. Ever be good, kind and obedient,
that you may grow up good men and
women.
	President J. E. Molen thanked the children
for their good attendance and kind attention.
Asked the children each to save five cents
towards emigrating two more children from
England, a brother and sister to the little
boy and girl that had already come to Zion
through their efforts.
	Conference was then adjourned to the first
Friday and Saturday in September. Child-
ren sang. Benediction.
	LAVINIA PARRY,
		Secretary.
	Report of the Primary Association of
Cache Stake for the half year ending March
1st, 1883:
	Meetings held, 337; Number of Members,
1847; Increase, 205; Decrease, 97; Average at-
tendance, 773. Readings. Bible Chapters,
98; Book of Mormon, 14; Doctrine and Coven-
ants, 43; Other Church Works, 203; Home
Readings, Chapters, 672; Home Readings,
Verses, 1172; Miscellaneous, 391. Recitations.
Bible—Number of Verses, 320; Book of Mor-
mon—Number of Verses, 27; Doctrine and
Covenants—Number of Verses, 235; Other
Church Works—Number of Verses, 424; Mis-
cellaneous Books, 431; Testimonies borne,
942; Essays, 55. Financial. Cash received,
$217.48; Property, $106.78; Total, $324.26;
Cash Paid Out, $127.85, Devoted to Temple,
$83.23; Charitable Purposes, 65.12; Cash on
Hand, 38.41; Property on Hand, 127.53; To-
tal on Hand, 165.94.
	JANE E. MOLEN, President.
	LAVINIA PARRY, Secretary.

UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Societies of Utah Stake of Zion, held
in Provo City, June 1st, 1888. Present on the
stand, Counselors Mary John and Margaret
A. Cluff, Secretary, etc., Mary John presiding.
Sister Zina D. H. Yonng present also, with a
few of the brethren. Conference opened with


the usual exercises, reading of minutes, etc.,
and as there were no written reports, verbal
reports were requested from the Presidents of
the different societies of the county, which were
given with very few exceptions. As a general
thing the societies were represented as being
in a flourishing condition, united and willing
to do all they were called upon to do in the
way of caring for the sick, helping the poor
and the needy, and trying in every way to
build up Zion.
	Sister John was gratified to meet with so
many of the sisters; was sorry that we were de-
prived (through illness) of the society of our
beloved President, Sister Smoot, but hoped the
Lord would heal her and restore her to us
again.
	Sister Cluff felt glad to hear the reports;
knew the sisters were doing a great deal of
good; felt to have faith for Sister Smoot that
we might have her with us again; also spoke
of the long labors of Sister Holden as Presi-
dent of the Fourth Ward Relief Society for
over fifteen years. Said that although the Re-
lief Societies were working quietly we could
hardly realize the good they were doing.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young said, we have
come here to worship God. These societies
were organized by Joseph Smith, he said the 
oaganization of the Church was not complete
without them. We know not what we miss
when we neglect attending our meetings, every
sister cannot come to meeting, but let the
teachers visit them that their souls may be
feasted, how many times are our souls feasted
by visits from the teachers. Sisters, read the
Doctrine and Covenants; do not indulge in
much mirth; be prayerful; and careful of our
words when speaking of another; spoke of the
trials of the faithful, but that we could not en-
ter the Celestial Kingdom without having all
we could bear. Counseled the sisters in regard
to their children; give them good advice, teach
them pure principles--do not overtask your-
selves with work and abuse your tabernacles.
May our Father in Heaven bless us and ena-
ble us to be faithful.
	Just as the forenoon services were obout to
close a sister by the name of Tiffany was
moved upon by the spirit to speak in tongues,
which was intrepreted by Sister Zina D. H.
Young.
	Afternoon session commenced at two p.m.
Sister John said she wished to have a testimony
meeting, and gave leave for the sisters to speak
as they felt moved upon, a number of the
sisters bore a strong testimony to this work
and of the goodness of God to them.
	Mother Duke (over eighty years of age)
said, it is with peculiar feelings that I arise
before you again, and I ask myself how many
times shall I be able to meet with you. I was
among the first members that were organized
into a Relief Society by Joseph Smith. We
are the daughters of God, spirits that have
been reserved to come forth at this time to
gain an experience and return to Him; our re-
ligion grows better as we grow older, I am
proud of it. I expect to meet you all beyond
the veil, etc.
	Sister Thomas and Anna K. Smoot, both
bore a faithful testimony to the truth of this
work. Brother H. H. Cluff spoke on the prin-
ciple of Celestial Marriage, the principle was
true and for our exaltation and eternal in-
crease, blessings accompany our obedience at
all times; spoke of the responsibility of parents
in training their children aright, and surround-
ing them with proper influences; it was of
more worth to raise our cnildren correctly than
anything we could accumulate around us.
	Sister Zina followed with a few more re-
marks, said the principles we have heard are
true; we cannot pay too much attention to the
souls of our children; they are given to us, and

[Column 2]

they must bear off this kingdom; it is through
obedience that we receive our rewards.
	Sister John encouraged the sisters in all
good works. Explained some of our beliefs
and doctrines to a few who were present who
did not belong to our Church; bore her testi-
mony to the truth of the principle of Celestial
Marriage.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
				CAROLINE DANIELS, Secretary.
	RESOLUTIONS of respect upon the resigna-
tion of Sister Ruia A. Holden as President of
the Relief Society of the Fourth Ward of
Provo City:
	Whereas, In consequence of severe illness
our beloved President, Ruia A. Holden, has
been rendered incapable of attending to the
duties of her office, and has tendered her resig-
nation to the Society.
	Resolved, That while we deplore the neces-
sity of doing so, we accept her resignation.
	Resolved, That we appreciate her services
and labors in behalf of our society for upwards
of fifteen years.
	Resolved, That Sister Holden has the love
and esteem of the whole Ward, and will ever
be remembered with affection by us.
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions
be recorded upon our books with our minutes,
and be sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT and 
Provo Enquirer for publication.
	Committee: M. A. Cluff, D. M. Meecham,
Caroline Daniels, Nancy Haws, Mary M. Boy-
den.
	Provo City, June 12th, 1883.


19 

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DRESDEN—THE "SISTINE MA-
DONNA."

DRESEDEN, Oct 20, 1882.
	It was late in the evening when we entered
this city. We were weary from a long day's
journey. We had been looking towards
the place as a sort of Mecca where our pil-
grimage was to end for the present. We sent
out many an inquiring glance as the fiacre
rolled through the streets on our way from the
Bahnhof. There was a certain severe quiet-
ness about everything that impressed us in an
uncomfortable fashion. It seemed as though
barometer and thermometer had both fallen
very fast since the setting of the sun.
	The ride ended at last; onr driver opened the
door of our carriage. We were in front of a
goodly building, but no flight of steps could
we find by which we might ascend and see if
the rooms we had engaged were habitable, At
last a gloomy looking arch-way with a gleam
of light somewhere in its mysterious depths,
fixes our attention. We venture in on a
voyage of discovery. At the further end we
come upon the "front steps," a huge stone stair-
way leading up to regions above. Maids were
coming down with lights, and we find it is the
place we have bargained for. We follow them
up four flights of stairs to find ourselves on
the third etage. We make some mental com-
ments on the peculiar method of computation,
and wonder if the people with whom we are to
abide are in very reduced circumstnnces, and
question whether there can be any duty to
them which will induce us to live in a "tene-
ment house." Before we have settled the
weighty problem, a door is thrown open and a 
gentle German frau who writes "Von" before
her name, is making us welcome in her own
pleasant way. Her rooms are as pleasant as
her voice of welcome. She has a bountiful
supper spread for us. Her dainty looking
table, with its snowy cloth and shining silver,
is a pretty picture in the quaint old dining-
room with its polished floor and comfortable
rugs. The sleeping apartments are equally in-

[Column 2]

viting. We find their arrangement somewhat
different from those we left at home. We en-
joy even the difference. The trimmings to
ours are all blue. Queer curtains of some
odd texture shade the three windows, which
open into the room, swinging back by hinges
like doors. Toilet tables, one for each person,
sofas and comfortable chairs go to make up our
satisfaction in our surroundings, which we 
speedily appropriate.
	We are glad enough to avail ourselves of
the opportunity to test the somnolent influences
of the comfortable looking beds. We are
learning a lesson now and then in gymnastics
by practice in the art of keeping our most pe-
culiar coverlets over us. The beds themselves
throughout all Germany are usually comfort-
able for persons of medium height. The Ger-
man cabinet maker is, in all probability, short
of stature, and is a law unto himself in measur-
ing. What happens to the tall person who at-
tempts to get a night's rest in a German bed of
the regulation pattern, we can only guess. The
problem is fatiguing. We usually find the
sheet and a red blanket basted together. After
this comes the crowning glory of the structure,
the pride and delight of the German frau, the
feather bed. Yes, good friends, we sleep un-
der our beds. The shades of our grandmothers
for more than one generation back have
seemed to stand before us in the hours of the
stilly night, with most sympathetic eyes, as we
have shivered in the pale moonlight in a vain
attempt to lay hands on our tormenting adver-
sary. Night after night we wrestle with our
soft-hearted antagonist. We find the enemy
floored every morning, the battle to be renewed
every night. How long our constitution can
stand the strife, we have yet to learn.
	We do not breakfast early. It is not ortho-
dox to do so. We find delicious coffee and
rolls waiting our coming to the table, or ready
to be served in our room. Honey is usually
the only accompaniment to the rolls. We still
cling to our old ideas, and secure a substantial
meal before we start out for the day. With
the sunshine on the city we find it less sombre
and unattractive than in the evening. We
straighten out our belongings, make ourselves
feel a little at home, and then start out.
	There is but one direction for us. Be the
city ever so attractive it is nothing now. We
have a pilgrimage before us, the only altar be-
fore which we can bow is in the Zwinger. We
are amazed at the building when we reach it,
we find it so much larger and finer than we
had expected. It reminds us in many ways of
the palaces of France, built under the direc-
tion of that ease-loving and luxurious Monarch,
Louis XIV. Augustus, the strong, laid the
foundation of the building, and was the origina-
tor of the wonderful collection now contained
within its walls. We cross the great court
with a sort of bewildered consciousness that
one of the desires of our life is about to be
gratified. We enter the door, ascend the
stairs, pass through the rotunda, inquire our
way of the guards, and keeping on through
the corridors, enter at last a room containing
a single picture—the object of our search—
"The San Sisto, or Sistine Madonna." When
we reached the door, our impulse was to turn
back again. We had counted on so much,
we were half afraid to enter. We drew back
the curtain, which draped the entrance, and
were at last face to face with the wonderful
creation; this marvel, this inspiration, which
found lodgment in the reverent mind of the
gentle, tender poet-painter, whose wondrous
genius alone could place it on canvas. Words
die away from the lips of those who enter the
sanctury where this Madonna is enshrined.
The unearthly beauty of the gracious figure is
almost painful in its impressive majesty in the
first moments of our surprise. We feel more
than we can see or speak. We stand dumb


and bewildered. We are glad to find ourself
in a seat at last.
	After a little time we get accustomed to our
surroundings, and find there are others in the
room, all absorbed and intent in what is before
them. The painting is quite large, arranged
with excellent taste, so that it now appears in
the position for which Raphael intended it—
above an altar—choicely framed, with hang-
ings of soft, rich maroon-color back of it. No
words can give an idea worthy the reality.
The marvelous Madonna is of course the cen-
tral figure, With the babe nestling in its ce-
lestial beauty in her arms, she seems treading
the very clouds of heaven utterly unconscious
of everything except her precious charge. The
womanly grace of her divine appointment to
the motherhood of Christ seems crowned by a
dignity beyond our comprehension.
	After a time, we begin to take in the acces-
sories to this figure. We find St. Barbara on
the right, bent in homage to mother and child,
while Pope Sixtus prostrates himself at the
left. Our eyes travel down in search of the
cherubs, who are in themselves worth a journey
to see. They are as facsinating, as beautiful, as
bewitching as one could imagine.
	The little room, even the strong walls of the
Zwinger fade away from us. We are watch-
ing a young man, a poet, possibly, who is
sauntering on the outskirts of an Italian city,
in the rosy close of a summer's afternoon.
Orange blossoms and oleanders have flung
their sweetness into the softened air. There is
a hush of repose over everything, as the pen-
sive muser pauses beside a cottage garden.
In the latticed doorway a young mother is re-
peating the story of the child that was born in
Bethlehem. Her beautiful boys are weary of
their play, and are resting at her knee. The
chubby hands of one are placed under the lit-
tle chin, while the wondering eyes of the other
are upturned in loving admiration toward the
devout and tender mother. The listless look
is gone from the stranger's face; quietly he ap-
proaches, listens with eager eyes bent on the
children, till the story is all told—the questions
about the wonderful mother and child all
answered. Then this young loiterer stoops to
caress the lovely children and tell the mother
that if she will bring her boys on the morrow
to his home he will show them a picture of the
Virgin and her Child.
	There is a murmur of satisfaction that causes
us to raise our eyes. The beautiful twins are
glowing on the canvas before us, where the
hand of Raphael placed them in loving adora-
tion at the feet of the Madonna about whom
they delighted to hear.
	We look mechanically along the walls of
this grand gallery as we go out, but are unable
to fasten our attention in a satisfactory way on
anything. We hope to come many times, and
make ourselves familiar with much that is in it.
To-day is only an introductory visit, and we
wanted to come quietly, with a single friend,
to that one particular object of our pilgrim-
age. It is good to be alone sometimes with
those who know the value of silence.
—Ex.	RUTH RANDOM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	MRS. SARAH M. KIMBALL writes from
Belle River, St. Clair County, Michigan, that
she is well and finds much of interest there, but
she can better tell it after she returns
home than write it. However, she means
to write us a letter from New York, the home
of her childhood, after arriving there. Mrs.
Kimball has been to Nauvoo, at which place
many recollections crowded upon her. She
expects to visit Kirtland, where she was mar-
ried in the early days of the Church.


﻿THE History of Salt Lake City is to be writ-
ten by Edward W. Tullidge, by authority of
the City Council, at the request of a number
of influential citizens, both men and women.
The history is to be published in parts, magni-
ficently illustrated with steel plate portraits of
men and women of the Territory. It will also
be published in Tullidge's Quarterly Maga-
zine.
	THE Englishwoman's Review, for June, con-
tains a number of very interesting articles:
Preparations for the Reform Bill, Hospital
Management, Hysterical Old Maids, Second
Reading of the Deceased Wife's Sister Bill, Un-
derground Russia by Stepniak, Protection of
Girls, London School of Medicine for Wo-
men, Governess Association of Ireland, Club
for Working Girls in Soho, Hygienic Dress,
and other interesting matter.


[Column 1]
For Sale at this Office.

BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.

PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,			25c. per copy.
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,		40c.	"
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,				$1.00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco,	-	1.50	"

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.

PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
Office and residence, 11th Ward, 7 blocks east
of the Deseret National Bank, and a half
block north, west side of the street.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.

KNITTING FACTORY,
On 1st W. St., Bet. 2d and 3d North, Next Door South of W. H. Hooper's.
Men's Socks, Ladies' and Childrens' Stockings, Infants
Knitted Shirts and Shoes, Ladies' and Children's Hoods,
etc. Family Knitting done on Reasonable Terms.
CAROLINE C. RALEIGH,
19th WARD, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Buildings; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.
☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

ELLEN B. FURGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office and Residence on 2d South between 3d
and 4d East Streets.

Special Study has been given to SURGERY, DISEASES
OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS.
☞ Can be called by Telephone Day or Night

[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
☞ We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL's
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLES,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,	
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

[Image of store]
HENRY DINWOODEY.

FURNITURE,
WALL PAPER,
CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUINS
AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 to 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY.

F Auerback & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods,
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
☞ CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 12.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15, 1883.	No. 4.


AFFECTIONATELY.

TO MRS. MARINDA N. J. HYDE

	[On the 68th Anniversary of her birth.]
MY DEAR SISTER MARINDA,
						On this natal day
A small tribute of love, o'er your threshold I lay,
I now meet you in age—I have known you in youth,
Ere Cumorati unbosomed the Records of Truth.
Since then we have labored together in love,
Where the Spirit of God showered down from above.

Your heart all unselfish—your hand never slack,
Has been kindly extended to help those that lack;
With true greatness of soul you have sought out and
										blest
The sad and afflicted, and cheered the distressed,
Until "Mother in Israel." the title your due,
The pure daughters of Zion accord unto you.

With me, in our friendships, you've ever been true,
And my heart's full of blessings for yours and for you.
What a prize, honest friendship, a gem never sold
For the purchase of favor, nor the purchase of gold;
You are true to yourself—to your friends, and to God—
You've acknowledged His hand, and "passed under the
										rod."
Be your coming years happy—your last be your best,
Then bright as a sunbeam you go to your rest,
And receive the reward of your labors of love,
In the midst of the just in the mansions above.
If perchance I precede you, by first passing through,
To the loved ones, I'll bear a good record of you.
							E. R. SNOW SMITH.
	Salt Lake City, June 28th 1883.


[Column 1]
A SUMMER STROLL.

	'Tis a lovely morning! How cool the air,
how blue the sky, how sweet the voices of the
birds, how beautiful the flowers. What rest
and comfort to leave the dusty, busy town and
find a place so calm and peaceful. ’Tis indeed
a morn of summer splendor.
	Walk with me, dear friend, a little while,
through these lovely lanes, hedged in on either
side with wild rose and sweet brier bushes, and
note the little birds and squirrels, the white
rabbit, the chipmunk, as we pass along.
	All nature is so beautiful! Do you see in
yonder tree that yellow breasted blackbird,
and there close by his modest plumaged mate?
There must be a nest somewhere in these rushes,
yes, there it is with four little birdies in it, oh,
what sweet, pretty, happy things! Look to the
right. Did you see that gray squirrel running
in and out of the bush? There it is again; how
cunning he is. Let's rest awhile on this poor
fallen tree. How shattered and tortured it looks
—this fallen pine. Perchance one fair, bright
morn it stood as proud and happy as those stately
brothers there, waving their smiling boughs
in the glorious sunshine; and now all its bright-
ness, all its gladness, all its glory is dead and
gone, and here it lies mouldering in the dust, shot
down in all its beauty by the wrath of the rag-
ing heavens. How often in the happiest, fairest
day of life, the saddest, heaviest blow doth fall.
Poor fallen pine, once the fair dwelling of the
merry birds, now only a leafless, broken trunk.
	These are lovely flowers peeping up from
the grass; there are the little pink and purple
daisies with their great golden centers; how
often in childhood's days we gathered them and
wove our "daisy chains," and wound them
round and round ourselves, laughing at our-
pictures in the crystal water, and weeping when
the fickle chain faded and severed.
	How many chains we have woven since and

[Column 2]
wound them round and round our hearts, think-
ing them as beautiful and lasting as pearls,
and finding them as frail and fickle as daisies.
	There are butter-cups too and sweet-peas and
red-bells, sweet clover blooms and lovely white
lilies. Children of the soil, eyes of the mead-
ows peeping at us in the morn as the stars of
heaven gaze at us in the night.
	What a little impudent chipmunk, staring at
us so, how dare he come so near. Perhaps he
has a home near this old tree, and fears we
might molest it. To every living thing there
is always a spot somewhere on the earth dearer
than all other places, and this is home; man
with all his powers loves not more his palace-
of splendor, than these poor, creeping crea-
tures love their little hovels. Let us worry
him no longer, but hasten on and view other
beauties of this summer morn.
	How sweet the meadows are—what perfume
so lovely as the new-mown hay. That's the
sound of the medlark; did you hear it? And
there perched in that old cottonwood is a robin
what bird more enchanting than the plain,
homely robin. Some love the bright colored
birds of the south, I admire them, but only
love the plain, sweet songsters of the grove and
meadow, who tell their happiness to the worjd
by their sweet notes.
	Do we not more dearly love the one whose
soul is happy though her dress is plain, than
the one who flaunts the gaudiest colors, and
little cares what state the heart or mind is in,
so that the dress is beautiful and gay.
	The clouds are gathering in yon western sky
and there is still another spot along this pretty
walk for us to see so we must hasten on. It
lies across this pasture to the left, do you not
see that sheet of shimmering water there?
Along the shore some pretty shells may be
found which I would gather as a remembrance
of this morn.
	How kind is our Father in Heaven! No
matter where we stray, there is always some-
thing to delight us. Life has its pains and sor-
rows, but it also has its joys and gladness, just
as the day has its sunshine and shadow; and
the sorrows only make the life more beautiful
and complete. One who has never had a sor-
row knows not his own joys.
	The shadows of life, like those of day, only
mellow the glaring light and give it its varied
tints and colors. No matter how dark the
night is, there is always a morning awaiting us.
	These trees near by will give us shelter from
the approaching storm, and it is near us for
even now I feel the drops of rain, and faster,
faster yet, they come,
	Under the thick foliage of these gracious
trees we find protection from the storm, while
all around the heavy rain drops fall. 'Twas
only for a moment—and now the angry clouds
part and the pretty smiling blue peeps in be-
tween, We have wandered far to day, and
must seek our home. Let us not retrace our
steps, but take another way. Life holds so
many ways that no matter how beautiful the
paths we have passed, nor how rugged, and
steep the ones we meet, one would always
rather wander on than turn back again to the
ones trodden before.
	In dreams, and dreams alone, can the
past come back as beautiful and fresh as ever.
For in reality changes ever come, and a sin-
gle moment can make a change in any thing.
							CONSTANCE.


HABIT.

	Habit may be defined as a condition of mind
or body, which results from the frequent per-
formance of an action. Man is called a crea-
ture of habit. When a habit is once firmly
established it becomes our master, and we
rarely have sufficient strength of will to over-
come it, although it be condemned both by
reason and experience. Habits are good or
bad, as they are the results of actions that are
right or wrong. People often justify bad
habits because they find difficulty in overcom-
ing them; but the habitual drunkard who is
unable to govern his appetite, that is ruining
himself and distressing his family cannot say
he does no wrong because his habits are bad
and it is to late to reform them. Bad habits
are the fruits of bad actions; but the fact that
a man is unable to break the habit is no excuse
for the wrong.
	We should obey the teachings of conscience
it is the highest authority to which we can ap-
peal. If we think an action right we are
under the strongest obligations to perform it; if
we feel it wrong nothing should induce its
commission. If we neglect to listen to the ap-
peal of conscience once we lose our self-respect,
and feel a sense of shame and meanness. If
we commit the wrong the second time its warn-
ing voice is not so loud, and finally, after re-
peated failures to gain attention, it ceases to
urge us to do right. The law of habit which
enables the conscience to grow each day stronger
and more certain in its indication of right will
so surely if neglected and abused cease entirely
to give its friendly advice. It is a dangerous
habit to neglect the kind whisperings of so
friendly a monitor. The sum of a person's
good and bad habits constitutes his character
If the good is in excess he is said to have a
good character; if the bad predominate his
character is said to be bad.
	Can habits be changed? Yes, they may be
changed, but it is easier to avoid bad habits
when they are shown to us, than to correct
them after they have begun to control our ac-
tions. The habits of an old man are not often
improved. Youth is the time to form good
habits; if we have formed bad habits we may
overcome them the same way we acquired
them, that is, by practice. If the conscience
tells us that any habit is wrong it is our duty
to change it. There is nothing brave or manly
in giving up the hope of reform, or in whin-
ing and conplaining with a cowardly "I cant."
It is folly to expect to break off in a day the
bad habits that have been growing for years.
The reform can only be accomplished by con-
stant, careful attention, by courageously watch-
ing and fighting against the disposition to do
wrong. It is not an easy undertaking. Keep
busy. Idleness is the strength of bad habits.
Do not give up the struggle when you have
taken your resolution once, twice or a dozen
times; any failure only shows how much need
there is for your increasing efforts. When you
have failed to accomplish your desire, think the
matter over and endeavor to understand why
it was you failed so that you may be on your
guard. Be honest with yourself, and never
think you can bear a tempation.	H. L.
	Coveville, Cache Co., Utah, May 18th, 1883


You find poetry nowhere, unless you bring
some with you.—Joubert.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SCENES IN NAUVOO, AND INCIDENTS
FROM H. C. KIMBALL'S JOURNAL.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	It reminds me of a time in my father's early
history, previous to his hearing of "Mormon-
ism." It was in 1823 when he received the three
first degrees of Masonry in the lodge at Victor
Flats, Ontario Co., New York, and in 1824,
previous to receiving all of the rights up to the
Royal Arch Masons, the Morgan affair broke
out and the Masonic Hall in Canandaigua
was burned by anti-Masons, and all their re-
cords consumed. It seems that the Masons
were persecuted and the same unjust proceed-
ings were heaped upon them by the anti-Ma-
sons that have been upon those who hold the
Priesthood. "Not as many as three of us,"
father says, "could meet together. unless in se-
cret, without being mobbed. I have been
driven from my houses and possessions with
many of my brethren belonging to that fra-
ternity five times, by mobs led by some of
their leading men.	*	*	*	I have
been as true as an angel from the heavens to
the covenants I made in the lodge at Victor.
*	*	I wish that all men were Masons
and would live up to their profession, then the
world would be in a much better state than it
is now." The Prophet Joseph after becoming
a Mason said that Masonry had been taken
from the Priesthood. In Nauvoo I was ac-
quainted with the widow and daughter of Mor-
gan who exposed Masonry. I remember once,
when but a young girl, of getting a glimpse of
the outside of the Morgan's book, exposing
Masonry, but which my father always kept
locked up. Now if men should be true to Ma-
sonry and hold sacred their covenants to that
or any other fraternity, why in the name of
conscience should not our covenants to the
Great Master Mason be held as sacred? Yes,
and more binding and the greater should be
our obligations. At all events we intend to
prove true to our integrity and hold to the
sacred covenants and institutions which we
know have been established by the Almighty,
and are calculated to put mankind in posses-
sion of the means of salvation, temporal as
well as spiritual, and to bring us into our pro-
per sphere and relationship to God our Hea-
venly Father, and which has given to women
as well as men the true key that can unlock
the mysteries of the eternal worlds—bringing
back to our recollection those glorious things
which we lost remembrance of in coming down
to this dark world as wanderers in the paths
of darkness, ignorance and degradation. It
teaches ns to be virtuous, honest and upright—
to subdue and bring into subjection our fallen
natures, and requires us to put away our vani-
ties and not indulge in any thing which is low
or that would be offensive to God or the celes-
tial beings. These things were taught to ns in
that Holy Sanctuary, and ought to be riveted
upon our minds and upon those of our child-
ren, so as to be remembered and lived up to
in all coming life: And though we have come
far short of living what we profess, still we hope
to do so in time. But if because of the faith
and integrity of our hearts we are to be perse-
cuted and threatened—innocent women impris-
oned and the liberty and lives of an honest
and God-fearing people to be jeopardized be-
cause they are determined to be true to their
covenants, obedient to His commands; we want
them (who are the enemies of God) to know
and understand that we shall continue to
throw ourselves upon His mercy instead of
theirs—into the hands of men who have long
since proven themselves to be liars and trai-
tors, not only to their couutry, but to them-
selves and to their God; whom we know to be
doubly dyed in the darkest pools of filth and

[Column 2]
corruption; and we wish them to understand
that it will take more prisons and fetters than
they can provide to bind the souls of men, or
even to make of a Latter-day Saint a coven-
ant breaker—to deny or give up one of the
principles of our holy religion, the celestial
order of marriage not excepted, and every
attack made upon us only increases our faith
and determination to stand firm to the end,
come life or come death.
	Saturday, December 20, 1845, father wrote,
"President Young having slept in the Temple
last night was early at his post and dictating
in relation to the business of the day and ar-
ranging the workmen in order, etc., after
which he listened to a reading from Captain
Freemont's journal by Franklin D. Richards.
*	*	*	*	*	The morning was a very
beautiful one—the sun shining clear and
bright through the east windows of the room
in which the party were assembled.	*	*
The reading was finished at ten o'clock, at
which time Miss Eliza R. Snow handed in a
list of the females washed this morning, which
list she has taken for several days past. At
seventeen minutes past nine a.m. we com-
menced washing in the male department.	*	*
	"President Young left the Temple about
half past four o'clock to be absent for the
night.
	"At five o'clock a meeting was held in my
room.	*	*	We offered up thanks to
God and asked for the health of Bishop Whit-
ney's youngest child, also for mine, and that
God would turn away the wrath of this gov-
ernment from us and overrule things for
good."
	My mother's three youngest, David, Charles
and Brigham had been suffering from the
whooping cough for a month or more previous
to this, and continued to all winter. Her
babe and Bishop Whitney's were dangerously
sick with it when we were compelled to leave
Nauvoo in the month of February, 1846.
	"Sunday, December 21st," writes his clerk,
"According to appointment on Sunday last a
meeting was held in the east room.	*	*
Seventy-five persons were present, Elder H. C.
Kimball presiding." After mentioning the
names of the brethren and sisters, he says,
"At five minutes before eleven the song,
"Glorious things of thee are spoken" was
sung—Father John Smith then made a few re-
marks—blessed the bread and it was handed
round by Bishop George Miller—The wine
was blessed by Bishop Miller and handed
round by him. While the wine was passing
around Elder George A. Smith arose and ad-
dressed the congregation. He thanked God
for the privileges this day enjoyed, and spoke
of the difficulties under which the church had
labored to attain to the blessings we now en-
joy. Another thing he thanked God for—
Already had more than five hundred persons
passed through, and therefore, if half of them
should be like the foolish virgins and turn
away from the truth, the principles of the
Holy Priesthood would be beyond the reach
of mobs and the assaults of the adversaries of
this Church. Order was one of the laws of
heaven. When we come together	*	*
and unite our hearts and act as one mind, the
Lord will hear us and will answer our prayers.
He related an instance of some children being
healed and cured of the whooping cough in one
night through the prayers of himself and Elder
Woodruff in Michigan, while they were there
on a mission. Said that whenever they could
get an opportunity they retired to the wilder-
ness or to an upper room, they did so	*	*	*
and were always answered. It would be a
good thing for us	*	*	every day and pray
to God and in private circles.	*	*	*
We are different from what we were before we
entered into this quorum,—Speedy vengeance
will now overtake the transgressor. When a

[Column 3]
man and wife are united in feeling, and act in
union, I believe that they can hold their child-
ren by prayer and faith, and will not be ob-
liged to give them up to death until they are
fourscore years old. Sometimes men trifle and
destroy the confidence which each ought to have
in the other, this prevents a union of faith and
feeling. The apostacy of Thos. B. Marsh was
caused by so small a thing as a pint of strip-
pings—and his oaths bronght the exterminat-
ing order which drove us all out of Missouri.
	"The woman ought to be in subjection to
the man—be careful to guard against loud
laughter—against levity and talebearing. He
expressed his unfeigned love for the brethren
and his confidence in their endeavors to keep
these rules. "The Spirit of God" was then
sung. Elder Kimball next addressed the
meeting. He concurred in all that had been
said, the observation of these things is most
essential. About four years ago next May
nine persons were admitted into the Holy or-
der—five are now living, B. Young, W. Rich-
ards, George Miller, N. K. Whitney and H. C.
Kimball, two are dead, and two are worse than
dead. You have not got all you will have if
you are faithful. He spoke of the necessity
of women being in subjection to their hus-
bands, "I am subject to my God, my wife is
subject to me and will reverence me in my
place, and I will try to make her happy. I
do not want her to step forward and dictate to
me any more than I dictate to President
Young. In his absence I take his place ac-
cording to his request. Shall we cease from
loud laughter?	*	*	Will you never
slander your brother and sister? I will refer
your minds to the covenants you have made,
by an observance of these things you will
have dreams and visions.	*	*	*
We shall not be with you long. We cannot
rest day nor night until we put you in posses-
sion of the Priesthood.	*	*	If we
have made you clean every whit, go now to
work and make others clean."	*	*
There are from seven to twelve persons who
have met together every day to pray ever
since Joseph's death, and the people have been
sustained upon this principle. Here is Brother
Turley has been liberated by the power of
God and not of man.
	"Elder Cahoon bore testimony of the impor-
tance of those things which had been spoken,
and rejoiced in the idea that the things he was
taught in the beginning were the same things
now taught and remembered, and it is so be-
cause they are eternal things.
	The assembly was then formed for prayer,
and Elder John Taylor being mouth the whole
congregation united with him in prayer.	*	*
At ten minutes past two the meeting was dis-
missed and another congregation met in the
same room.
	"At three o'clock sand "Hosanna"—prayer
by Orson Hyde, after which by invitation of
Elder Kimball who presided (President
Young not having been at the Temple to-day,
and the duty of presiding having devolved
upon Elder Kimball as the next in successiou)
Amasa Lyman addressed the assembly, he
said, "Doubtless with most of the present as-
sembly it is the beginning of a new era in
their lives—they have come to a time they
never saw before—they have come to the com-
mencement of a knowledge of things, and it is
necessary that they should be riveted on
their minds. One important thing to be un-
derstood is this, that those portions of the
priesthood which you have received are all es-
sential matters.

To be Continued.


Do not wait for extraordinary opportunities
for good actions, but make use of common
situations. A long walk is better than a short
fight.—Goethe.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OUR MOTHER'S VOICE.

Oh, many are the thrilling sounds,
	E’er falling on the ear,
At which the heart with rapture bounds,
	While starts the trembling tear.
		Some love note pure,
		Some charming call  
	To make our souls rejoice,
But dearest, holiest of them all,
		Our own sweet mother’s voice,
	Our mother’s voice, our mother's voice.

When far away from that dear home,
	Made radiant by her smile,
Her prayers still bless us as we roam,
	Her words we lisp the while.
And if from other lips there flow
	The	blessings	and the prayer,
Though kindly greetings friends bestow,
	We miss her accents there,
Our mother’s voice, our mother’s voice.

Her songs of love, when others sing,
	Lose half their magic power;
To her our thoughts will fondly cling
	In every passing hour.
Where’er our wandering footsteps stray,
	Whatever be our lot,
That angel voice our hearts doth sway,
	It cannot be forgot,
Our mother's voice, our mother’s voice.
							SELECTED.


[Column One]
	A VENERABLE WOMAN.
PRESEMDIA LATHROP KIMBALL
		  [Continued.]
	It is impossible to give anything like an ac-
count of the sufferings and trials of the peo-
ple during their stay in Winter Quarters, and
had it not been for the faith and the determina-
tion to serve God, and to persevere in well
doing, thousands would have sunk under the
heavy burdens and afflictions. But the grace
of God sustained them, and they trusted Him
implicitly. Sister Presendia herself had many
spiritual manifestations, and especialy during
the winter of 1847, after the return of the
pioneers from the Salt Lake Valley. Many
things were shown to Sister Presendia, and al-
most as it were the heavens opened to view, for
her comfort and consolation in the time of her
great sorrow and sacrifice. These were sacred
things, given her for her own benefit, and to
show her what the future would be if she main-
tained her integrity to the cause she had es-
poused.
	Sister Presendia has frequently remarked,
that she was never so thankful for anything
in her life as for the manifestations she received
in those trying times at Winter Quarters; for
it hadkept her from yielding to temptations, to
doubt and murmur,and had supported and given
her courage in the darkest hours of her lonely
widowhood. When sorrows of various kinds
had pressed heavily, and her cup seemed to be
running over with bitterness, she could recall
to mind what had been shown her in vision,
and the promises made to her if she proved
faithful and true.
	Early in the Spring of 1848 a few of the 
Mormon Battalion found their way back to
Winter Quarters, on the Missouri River,
where they had left their families when they
were called to go to Mexico. They returned
almost literally starved; having undertaken to
cross the desert with pack mules, and be-
ing overtaken with storms and often losing
their way, lying at night on the ground beside
their mules; they persevered while their provis-
ions held ont, but when their store was ex-
hausted, they first cut up their saddles and
cooked the rawhide, then one by one the ani-
mals that had been so faithful and carried 
them so far, had to be sacrificed to appease the
pangs of hunger, and keep life in their bodies.

[Column 2]
Sister Presendia says she can never forget the
sight these brethren presented when they ar-
rived at Winter Quarters, ragged, barefooted,
their feet bleeding and torn, they seemed more
dead than alive, and looked very like Mohe-
gans, so rough and uncanny. They had to be
nursed and fed with the greatest care they had
been so long without food. One of these men
was Edward Martin, who died, in this city,
about a year ago. The others Mr. John Tib-
bets and Thomas Woolsey. Sister Presendia was
much affected by this circumstance, and al-
ways looked upon it as a miracle, their being
preserved to cross over such a wilderness in
the dead of winter, and find their way without
guide or compass.
	In May of the same year, Brigham Young,
Heber C. Kimball, Willard Richards and other
leading men of the Church, started enroute for
the valley, each of these brethren in charge of
a large company of Saints. Sister Presendia
and her little son Oliver left Winter Quarters
on the 6th of May. Her son George had not
followed her according to promise. Many
women had to drive their own team, yoke and
unyoke their cattle, milk their cows, if they had
any, and cook over the camp fires; the hard-
ships incident to a journey of this kind are
calculated to bring out all the weak points of
character, and to prove the integrity of the in-
dividual to the cause in which he may be en-
listed. Everyone who has crossed the plains
over the sand ridges, through the sage brush,
encountering Indians, buffaloes,wolves, etc., etc.
will, I am sure, bear me out in the assertion I
have made. Sister Presendia, like many others,
had much to endure, and drove her own team,
part of the way though in delicate health, and
sometimes unable to sit up; her cares and labors
were varied and numerous, but she enjoyed the
spirit of her religion, and was happy in feeling
that she was about to reach a place of refuge,
where the Saints could worship God according
to the dictates of their own consciences. She
however arrived here on the 22nd of Septem-
ber, and settled down to home life in the Old
Fort. January 6th, 1848, Sister Presendia
was confined with a daughter. The little one
was named Presendia Celestia, and was a very
bright and handsome child. The baby was a
great comfort to the lonely mother, who had
left her home and come thousands of miles
away. She grew to be very beautiful and in-
telligent and attractive. No daughter was
ever more fondly loved in infancy than this
little one, indeed she seemed rightly named
Celestia, for she was more like a celestial being
than a mortal one. On one occasion Presi-
dent Young inquired her name, and was told it
was Presendia Celestia; quick as thought he
said, celestial Presendia; and so it seemed she
was spirituelle in form and feature. Her
mother's heart was entwined around her so
firmly, that it seemed as though to be separated
even for a short time was almost insupportable.
But the purest and dearest are often taken in
infancy.	
			To be Continued.


[Column 1]
MUSIC.

	Reader, when you breathe even this word,
has it not a pleasing sound? Does it not pene-
trate the recesses of your heart and strike ten-
der chords, whose vibrations have cheerful
echoes? Favorably impressed with the word, 
let us peer into the nature and effects of the
art. Nestled close in the heart of every hu-
man being we find an appreciation of music;
in some clearly defined, in others awakened
only by peculiar circumstances, and on rare
occasions. Who has not been relieved by 
hearing the emotions of the heart portrayed 
by strains of music, in whose supernatural
charms we find power to soothe the aching

[Column 2]
heart, of assuaging sorrow, and even calming 
the aroused passions of the brute. 
	Go with me to the uncomely wigwam, or
battle ground of the uncouth savage, what
do we find? Music—employed and regarded
by those illiterate, benighted people as it is by 
our Christian world. Those rude, ungainly
instruments do their part, (as did the minia-
ture, ridiculed spy-glass of Galileo) urging the
warrior's faith; permeating through every vein
vim and courage; and like a stimulant reviv-
ing his exhausted form, cheering him on, on
to victory! Pass from this scene and note
the disconsolate mother leaning over her dar-
ling babe, whose fragile form (not prepared to 
encounter the chilling blasts of this cold
world) is fast yielding its mortal part to earth;
how pained and set her features, as she reluct-
anly yeilds her treasure, amd painfully 
watches its gentle spirit ebb with each fleeting 
moment; suddenly a heavenly strain of music
is wafted through the open window-- mark
 that change of countenance! those features 
seem calmed by the holy mystery of those 
sounds; something whispers that her rose-bud is
welcomed by seraphs; she is seemingly permit-
ted to peep into the horoscope of the future,
and in  doing so is assured that the chain now
severed will ere long be welded forever; that a
reunion will eventually come when mother 
and child, clasped in one long affectionate em-
brace, will enjoy unalloyed bliss in that world 
eternal where music dwells supreme.
	Music is not an art of recent development,
but has taken an important part in the graat
"drama of life" from the beginning. Our earth
launhed from the hands of its Creator had
accompanying phenomena, which in their var-
ied tones produce music.   Hark! the elements 
combine even while I write, and  proclaim in 
deep, fearful, roaring thunder, 'tis true. How
infinitely grand are those bass notes, telling in
their monotonous rumble of a greater, mightier
power than mortals can conceive! Is this not
music in its grandest, most perfect form? For
a moment we are now lost in the depths of a 
thickly wooded forest; how mournfully the
wind howls through the branches, natures own
harps; listlessly moaning, then suddenly burst-
ing into a violent passion of mingled grief and
sighs, and dying away into a pathetic requiem.
Those minor chords! What a seraphic tremor
in the human heart they cause!
	In fancy now we are seated by the choerful
peat fire of the fisherman; the gentle rain is
pattering on the roof, which, with the interve-
ning crackling of the embers, drums a lively
tune; a lull in the chat; the drops come faster;
through the windows the pale moon is seenoc-
casionally peeping from behind a dark Nimbus,
then hurrying on, seemingly driven from her 
path by the huge black clouds, far in the dis-
tance comes the sound of waves, one after an-
other; alternately roaring, moaning and dying;
now voluminous, now scarcely audible; swell-
ing and receding like the beautiful tones of a 
diatonic scale. "The voice of the Great Crea-
ter speaks in those mighty tones."
	Returning now on our imaginative tour, rich,
plaintive tones, issuing froma ssanctified altar
of worship, 'round which penitents are kneel-
ing and offering thanksgiving, fall upon our 
ears. Soul-inspired-- vent is given to their feel-
ings by means of singing, and involuntarily
praises are sent to their maker. In such wor-
shhip find we not a solace for all our cares? In 
the house of God where music abides we un-
consciously enjoy elysium, and in a dreamy 
reverie, picture ourselves shut out from this
cold world and its cares by a halo of peace,
typical of Eden's atmosphere.
					JENNIE HARRIS.
	Mesa City, Arizona, May 23rd, 1883.


Virtue is a rough way, but proves at night a
bed of down.—Wotten.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELLINE B. WELLS, . . Editor. 

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a.m. to
5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, - JULY 15, 1883.


TO THE BISHOPS OF THE VARIOUS
WARDS.

		SALT LAKE CITY, July 9th, 1883.
	Complaints have reached us to the effect that
in some of the wards of the Territory a dispo-
sition has been manifested by some of the Bish-
ops presiding to take possession of and disburse
the wheat which has been collected by the
members of the Relief Societies.
	This wheat has been collected by the mem-
bers of this society in the various wards at con-
siderable trouble and they are the proper custo-
dians thereof and responsible therefor to the
parties from whom it has been obtained.
	No Bishop has any right, because of his au-
thority as a presiding officer in the ward, to take
possession of this grain. It belongs to the socie-
ties who have collected it, and it is their pro-
vince to dispose of it for the purpose for
which it has been collected, and it should not
be appropriated or disposed of by any Bishop for
any other object.
						JOHN TAYLOR,
						GEORGE Q. CANNON,
						JOSEPH F. SMITH,
	First Presidency of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints.


PIONEER DAY.

	The 24th of July is fraught with memories
that are very dear to the hearts of this people.
The anniversary of the arrival here of the brave,
heroic pioneers who explored this mountain re-
gion when there was no trace of civilization,
must ever be looked upon as a day we should
celebrate. When we consider, too, all the
circumstances that caused the exodus of this
people from homes and associations dear to their
hearts, and that they came here because they
could have no abiding place among the so-called
Christians in this boasted land of freedom and
religious liberty, it calls forth some of the
strongest and tenderest emotions of the human
soul. The people came here a band of exiles,
fleeing from religious persecution; willing to
brave any danger, any peril for the sake of the
principles they had espoused, that were dearer
even than life itself.
	It is meet to celebrate the day with songs and
rejoicings, and to teach our children that it is an
epoch ever to be remembered by them as the
birth of freedom to the oppressed. Here they
planted the standard of liberty, and the stars
and stripes were unfurled to the breeze on that
memorable day. Thirty-six years have elapsed
since that time, and many changes have been
wrought during that period, some of which the
pioneers had never dreamed. Yet so far peace


has reigned, notwithstanding many attempts
have been made by wicked and unprincipled
men to take from this people what few privi-
leges they are permitted to enjoy as a Territory.
	At the present time perhaps there is a 
stronger influence brought to bear than at any
date previous. The incessant clamor of politic-
ians and office seekers, and also of ministers of
religion with small salaries sent out here to do
missionary work among the Mormons, has final-
ly succeeded so far as to secure inimicol legisla-
tion in Congress, and not satisfied even with
that, they still keep up the hue and cry, that
something further must be done. The fact is
this class of people are determined if possible
to wrest from the "Mormon" every right, not
only of citizenship, but the liberties and privi-
leges which every man of honor would rather
die than lose. The children of the Latter-day
Saints should know as much as possible, that
which their parents have suffered and endured
to establish themselves here and why they
came. And as a matter of history and to com-
memorate the 24th of July it is fitting to bring
our children together, that they may be duly
impressed with the importance attached to the
entrance of the pioneers into these valleys, and
with the significance of the fact that the Lord
led with a strong arm and an outstretched hand
his people up from the land of their enemies to
a place of refuge and that to Him alone they
should look for safety and protection in the time
of need.
	The Concerts which will be held in the Taber-
nacle under the direction of Evan Stephens
ought to be well patronized. Every inducement
that could be afforded has been offered to secure
a good house. The proceeds are to be used for
public purposes. For the benefit of Sunday
Schools, for the Deseret Hospital and to assist
Stephens' classes in their advancement in mu-
sic.


THE OLD FOLKS EXCURSION!

	On Wednesday, July 11th, the old folks of
this city and adjacent towns and country took
their usual excursion, this time to Provo, where
they spent the day in Brother Daniel Graves'
grove. These annual festivities for the old peo-
ple are very commendable, and are highly appre-
ciated by those who participate. To pay defer-
ence to persons advanced in years is a courtesy
and privilege that should never be neglected.
It is fitting that the younger and more active
should do all in their power to cheer and enliv-
en those who are upon the down hill of life.
	There was music and singing on the train,
and refreshments were served to all, a merrier,
happier party could scarcely be imagined.
Along the route at the different settlements
more and more were added to the numbers.
	At the grove the time was spent pleasantly;
the Provo Silver Band and Second Ward
(Provo) Martial Band played some charming
music, and Father John Colburn, aged 82,
danced a hornpipe. Father Graves deserves the
thanks of all for the kind courtesies shown to
the party, for the use of his grove and other ac-
commodations. The people of Provo all seemed
ready and anxious to render any kindness possi-
ble to contribute to the enjoyment of the occa-
sion. Ms. Smoot who has so long been ill, was
well enough to come out to the grove in a car-
riage to see and greet the company, and after
her long confinement to the house it was some-
thing of a recreation for her. Presents of vari-
ous kinds were distributed to those deserving
them for labors and good works, and all went off
well. The Committee are to be congratulated
upon their success, especially Brothers Goddard
and Savage, who are indefatigable in their ef-


forts to make the old folks happy and comforta-
ble on these occasions.


THE DESERET HOSPITAL.

	This Institution has now completed its first
year; and as it enters upon its second, we wish
it to be better understood than has been appar-
ent.
	With the approval of the First Presidency, we
commenced the Hospital, as no women on earth
except those of the Latterday Saints would have
undertaken so gigantic an enterprise, i. e. with
nothing. But we had faith in the support and
liberality of our brethren and sisters: and thus
far we have succeeded beyond our most san-
guine expectations. Many afflicted ones during
the past year, through the blessings of God on
our Hospital efforts and skill, have been re-
lieved of suffering which otherwise, probably, 
would have continued through life.
	It is very natural that in consequence of the re-
ceipt of many and frequent donations from vari-
oussources, that some persons should have im-
bibed the idea that the Deseret Hospital is con-
ducted as a charitable institution where patients
can be treated free of charge. We wish to disa-
buse the minds of those who have adopted this
erroneous conclusion.
	The Hospital is truly a benevolent institu-﻿
tion, but not a charitable one. Our sympathies
often prompt the wish that it could be such, but 
under existing circumstances it is an impossibil-
ity. Our sympathies prompt us to appropriate
much care, time and labor to furnishing and
conducting, etc., etc. (not one of the officers
and members of the Board of Directors has re-
ceived one cent for time and services rendered.)
	No person, not immediately engaged in it,
can form any correct estimate of the great ex-
pense of fitting up and furnishing the building,
and the constant outlay in providing for it, with
sixty dollars per month rent, besides full wages
to those who labor in the Hospital.
	The people have contributed generously, for
which we are truly grateful, and realizing that
the means bestowed is not our own, we use it as 
economically as circumstances will admit.
But withal, we do not propose to beg to meet
the expenses of invalids who come for treat-
ment. That devolves on the Organizations,
Bishops and County Officers of the Wards,
towns and counties of which the patients are 
residents.
	Every person, to obtain the benefits of the
Hospital, must present to the matron a Permit
signed by Mrs. E. B. Wells, the Secretary of
the Deseret Hospital Association. The Secre-
tary will require from those who are unable to
pay their expenses, a writing signed by a res-
ponsible person, or persons, that shall be a suf-
ficient guarantee for payment of Hospital fees.
Those who can pay will be received on their
own responsibility by giving satisfactory assur-
ances to the Secretary and obtaining a Permit. 
	We wish it definitely understood that cases of 
sudden injuries are exempt from the above re-
quirements.
	E. R. SNOW SMITH, President D. H. A.
In behalf of the Deseret Hospital Association.
	Salt Lake City, July, 1883.


A STRONG TESTIMONY.

	St. Mark Chapter 16, verses xvii and xviii,
"And these signs shall follow them that believe;
in my name they shall cast out devils; they
shall speak with new tongues:
	"They shall take up serpents; and if they
drink any deadly thing it shall not hurt them;
they shall lay hands on the sick, and they shall
recover.,'


In the year 1840 and 1841, the Elders of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
visited the little town of Grafton, Lorain Co.,
Ohio, and there they raised up a small branch,
consisting of sixteen members. In the summer
of 1841 this branch of the Church held their
meetings in a building that was used on week
days as a carpenter's shop, and consequently
was open most of the time having no lock or
key.
	On Sunday, towards the latter part of the
summer of 1841, the teacher fetched the sacra-
ment as usual, bread and wine; (the wine being
his own make from elderberries) he left the
bread and wine in a basket under one of the
work benches while he went to dinner.
	In the afternoon sixteen persons partook of
the same; when he returned home he took the
decanter containing the wine out of the basket,
and unthinking held it up between him and the
sun when he discovered quite a quantity of sed-
iment in it. This astonished him very much,
for when he put the wine into the decanter it
was perfectly clear. He said nothing about it to
any one, but the next day he took it to a chem-
ist and had it analyzed, it was found to contain
about an ounce of arsenic. And sixteen per-
sons drank of that poisoned wine, the writer of
this sketch among the rest, and not one re-
ceived any injury. Thus we saw and realized
the fulfillment of the promise, "if you drink
any deadly thing it shall not hurt you." But 
the offending party thought the joke too good to
keep. In about three months after a very wick-
ed young man in the town said the "Mor-
mons" could not be killed for he had tried it,
said he, "I put an ounce of arsenic in their
sacramental wine and they partook of it and it
did them no harm." His name was Dhru John-
son. In about four months after this circum-
stance transpired he quarreled with a man in
a ballroom and was stabbed and killed.
	Most of the witnesses of this incident are now
dead, one did live in Parowan a short time ago
and one lives now in Brigham City, Arizona.
	It has been impressed upon my mind for some
time to send the foregoing incident of history as
it seems as if all such items should be put upon
record. JOANNA C. TEEPLES.
	Holden, June 15th, 1883.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 29


[Column 1]
WOMAN'S VOICE.

	The Saints of God gain a great deal of strength
by perusing your paper, the valuable EXPONENT.
It is a duty, and should be a pleasure to give
our feelings and meditations from time to time
to gaining intelligence, so by them as well as
by our prayers we can strengthen one another;
and how necessary it is that we should help one
another, now above all other times, when
scourges and pestilence are come upon the earth,
according to the predictions of ancient and
modern prophets. For instance, in Doctrine
and Covenants a revelation given through
Joseph Smith, December 27, 1832, that not
many days hence and the earth shall tremble
and reel to and fro like a drunken man, and the
sun shall hide his face and refuse to give light,
and the moon shall be bathed in blood, and the
stars shall cast themselves dows as a fig that
falleth off a fig tree. These predictions are at
our very door, and how necessary it is to take
His, the Lord's, counsel in this matter. Read
from paragraph 119 to 127 in the same revela-
tion. If we would do this how much it would
strengthen us at that great and awful day!
Have we anything to do? There is the rearing
of our young, our little children that God has
blessed us with; how necessary it is to implant
in their minds while young, the principles of life
and salvation; to teach them to rely on God

[Column 2]
under all circumstances; to teach them to pray.
What is more softening and touching in its na-
ture than a little child's faith in prayer? To
corroborate this statement I will relate a circum-
stance: A little boy not four years old, was
playing alone by the side of the house; the
mother was drawn from her work by hearing
him say, Amen. She stepped to the door, where
the little one was playing, and there beheld his
little table, with his bread and cup of water; she
said, "What are you doing darling?" The little
fellow looked up, his face beaming with smiles,
and said, "I'se asking the bessing, I said bess
the Bissop, and make his feets well." The
mother caught her little one in her arms, and
thanked the Lord for her treasure. I will here
explain. A short time ago the Bishop of this
place met with an accident and had to have six
of his toes amputated; and not only having the
prayers of the Saints, but the prayers of the in-
fants for his recovery was touching in the ex-
treme. I narrate this to show the spirit that is
working upon our little ones. The Lord has
kept back the noble spirits, to come and take
bodies in this dispensation, to carry out purposes
upon the earth in these last days.
	There is a great work for the Saints to do, for
the Lord has set up His kingdom never more to
be thrown down; for he says, in Doctrine and
and Covenants, Sec. 652, "The Keys of the
Kingdom of God are committed unto man on
the earth, and from thence shall the Gospel roll
forth unto the ends of the earth, as the stone
which was cut out the mountain without hands
shall roll forth until it has filled the whole earth.'
Therefore, if we are partakers of this same Gos-
pel or kingdom, which we know we are, and
those who do not let them pray diligently until
they do know, can afford to stand the persecu-
tions of the evil one and his accomplices; they do
not know what power it is that impels them in
their evil work. We can truly say, in the words
of Jesus, "Father forgive them, they know not
what they do." God has said, "I will avenge
the wrongs of my people." We can afford to
wait his own time; the main thing is for us to be
alive to our duties and privileges, and all the
blessings that God has promised His Saints he
will assuredly fulfill. He has promised to fight
our battles, is He not as good as his word? Has
he not commenced already? Look at the na-
tions of the earth to-day! Who cannot acknowl-
edge His hand in this? "God moves in a mys-
terious way His wonders to perform." Let us
be wakeful to the times, and prayerful, so when
the Bridegroom cometh we will be numbered
among the wise virgins, with our lamps full and
burning.							J. E. C.
	Orangeville, June 8th, 1883.


A DELIGHTFUL PRIMARY.

	On Monday, July 9th, I was invited by Sister
Davis, President of the Primary of the Twenty-
first Ward, to be present at their annual meet-
ing, nothing preventing, I did myself the pleas-
ure of attending the same. Sisters Horne, Felt,
Toone and others were also present. There
was a fine assemblage of healthy, intelligent
and well behaved children ready to receive us;
the children opened by singing, and recitations,
dialogues, songs, and indeed all their perform-
ances were, I may say perfect, for scarcely any
prompting was needed, even little children of
three and four years of age recited without any
assistance, both boys and girls; it was really
wonderful. I do not like to particularize where
all was good, but I must name Eva Barfoot,
who exhibited decided talent in reciting; she has
the right ring in her voice, and her gestures were 
gentle and expressive; all the children did cred-
it to their teachers—and also to their mothers—


for "home tuition" was palpably visible among
them; they were promt to the call from the pro-
gramme, and any one could see it was natural
for them to be orderly and obedient; they all
seemed happy and to richly enjoy the meeting,
their sparkling eyes speaking their enjoyment. 
They were asked questions, which they prompt-
ly answered, evidently they were "at home" in 
the whole affair.
	When the programme was through Sister Felt
was called upon to address the children, which
she did in a most admirable, sweet, loving man-
ner, all her words giving edification and encour-
agement. This lady is especially qualified by na-
ture to be a teacher of children, she has the
winning tact that fascinates them, and her
teachings are full of practical common sense
principles, she is truly "a Mother in Israel."
	Sister Horne was then called upon; her teach-
ings are well known for their adaptability to all
whom she may address. Her work has been
long and able, and I trust length of days are 
stiil before her to continue the same labor of
love.
	I had nothing to do but to endorse all that
had indeed been the language of my own heart,
which I did in a few words. These primaries
are certainly the finest schools for our young
children, it seems to me to be a wide field in
which the seeds of progression and eternal life
may be freely sown, and that the produce must
be a hundred fold. Every heart in that meet-
ing seemed to be full of joy, and when we 
parted all seemed to feel it had indeed done us
good to be there. God bless the presidents and
all associated with the primaries, for it is a 
goodly work; God bless the parents of the child-
ren that compose them that they may realize
what a blessing such associations confer upon
their children, that they may ever urge upon
them to be punctual in their attendance, and
shew forth as beautiful a picture as we beheld
in the Twenty-first Ward last Monday. No 
where can that Scripture be more appropriately
fulfilled and realized: "Cast thy bread upon the
waters, and thou shalt find it after many days." 
	HANNAH T. KING.
	17th Ward, Salt Lake City.


EDITORIAL NOTES. 

	WE have received some very pleasant calls of
late, from very interesting people; one of them
M.s. James Couper, Glasgow, Scotland, who is
traveling in America for pleasure and informa-
tion. She spent a few days in this city and made
several calls with us on “Mormon” people. She
is a very finely educated and cultivated woman,
and has certainly had an opportunity to see and
learn something concerning our homes and insti-
tutions. She expects to sail for home on the
20th of July. We wish her a safe and pleasant
journey, and trust she may do some good in re-
moving prejudice. 
	THE delegates to the County Convention that
was held in this city, July 14th, transacted the
business for which they convened in a very
creditable and satisfactory manner. Among
other items of business they elected thirty-two
delegates to a District Convention to be held in
the City Hall, July 21st, to nominate members
to the next Legislative Assembly. Of the thir-
ty-two delegates, five are ladies, Miss Mattie
Horne, Mrs. John Q. Cannon, Miss Sarah E.
Vincent, Mrs. Charles W. Stayner, Miss Nellie
Colebrook. Among the alternates are Mrs.
Emily E. Brinton and Mrs. Isabella McGhie.
The County Central Committee of the People's
Party were sustained as follows: John Sharp, D.
O. Calder, J. R. Winder, Feramorz Little, Theo-
dore Mc. Kean, I. M. Stewart, J. S. Rawlins, A.
M. Cannon, John T. Caiue, Samuel Bennion,


John F. Snedaker, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs. S.
M. Kimball, Mrs. M. I. Horne, Thomas E.
Taylor.
	REV. BRADLEY ABBOTT and wife, who
visited Salt Lake City recently, brought a let
ter of introduction to the Editor of the EXPO
NENT from a gentleman acquaintance who re-
sides in London. Mr. and Mrs. Abbott
were less prejudiced against the "Mor-
mons," and more inclined to treat our
subject in a fair and logical manner
than the clergy generally are. They are people
of broad and philanthropic views and exceed-
ingly interesting in conversation, having trav-
eled very extensively in the holy land and on
the continent of Europe, and met with people
of all nations.
	Mr. Abbott has a large parish in London, and
is a man of great influence with the clergy, and
very popular among his parishioners. His wife
too is closely associated with him in all his cleri-
cal and benevolent labors, and finds a wide field
of usefulness for womanly efforts.
	Mr. and Mrs. Abbott are both advocates for
Woman Suffrage and realize the great good be-
ing accomplished in England by the suffrage
movement.
	A GUIDE to Salt Lake City, recently pub-
lished by Joseph H. Parry, called "The Mor-
mon Metropolis," is a very good work to place
in the hands of strangers to give them correct
ideas of our city and its environs, its places of
note, manufactures and institutions. The Guide
contains a map of the city which gives a good
idea of its situation; then an "Introductory," in
which the author states that "Mormonism"
gives to the city "its unique pre-eminence
amongst the cities of Western America." The
first settlement of the city by the pioneers and
the company who followed them is given brief-
ly and yet minutely. The latitude, longitude
and scenery of the city is given, also its altitude
and other interesting matter. The book is illus-
trated, containing excellent pictures of the 
Temple Block, Salt Lake Temple when com-
pleted, The Tabernacle, Salt Lake Assembly
Hall, President Young's Residence, Grave of
President Young, Black Rock and Garfield land-
ings, also Black Rock in the Salt Lake. The
Temple and Tabernacle are described, also other
public buildings and edifices, and the commer-
cial and manufacturing interests are well ex-
plained. Schools, Churches and newspapers are
well represented in this neat and complete little
hand book, and the author seems not to have
neglected anything of importance. Data, his-
torical and interesting, is furnished, and it will
certainly be of great benefit to tourists and
pleasure seekers who stop off to visit Salt Lake
City. The book is for sale at Parry's store,
north of Z. C. M. I. Price 25cts per copy.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Ann Shipley,
who departed this life June 16th, 1883.
	Whereas, an alwise Providence has called from us by
the hand of death our beloved sister,
	Resolved, that we recognize in the death of our sister,
Ann Shipley, the loss of an able, efficient and worthy
teacher in the Relief Society of South Weber.
	Resolved, that we esteem her past faithful labors and
devotion to duty as worthy the fellowship and highest
respect of us all.
	Resolved, that we condole and deeply sympathize
with the bereaved family and friends, in the loss of a
kind wife, affectionate mother and a good and respected
citizen.
	Resolved, that these resolutions be spread upon our
records, and that a copy of the same be furnished the
bereaved family, also the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for pub-
lication.				Yours, respectfully,
						JEANETTE COOK, President.
						MARY M. FIRTH, Secretary.


Our sister now has gone to rest,
	She has gone to dwell on a brighter shore;
She has gone to meet the ones she loved,
	Whom death had parted long before.

And may the ones that hero remain,
	Though cruel fate should bid us part,
Still in our memory to retain,
	The friend that from us did depart.
	- AGNES H. COOK.
South Weber, July 7th, 1833.

	DIED, in the Tenth Ward, Salt Lake City, June 13th
1883, of pnuemonia, Laura Maria, daughter of John L.
and Regina Ness, born in Salt Lake City, September 21st,
1869.
	Also at the same place and time, June 13th, of pneu-
monia, Joseph Alfred, son of John L. and Regina Ness,
born August 24th, 1874, in Salt Lake City.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, God in his alwise Providence has seen
proper to call from our midst to a higher sphere two of 
our members, who were greatly beloved by us all for
their gentle spirits, their diligence in the Society and
the respect we have for their parents,
	Therefore, be it resolved, that we, the members of the
Primary Association, do deeply mourn the loss of our
brother and sister, and we deeply mourn with their par-
ents. May they rest in peace till the resurrection morn.
	And be it resolved, that we present a copy of these
resolutions to their parents and publish the same in
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and place a copy on record.
	JEANIE MCLEAN,
	ELIZABETH EDMONDS,
	Committee.


[Column 1]
R S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS

CLOVER CREEK, TOOELE CO.

	On June 22nd, a special meeting was called
for the purpose of organizing a Relief
Society in this ward, Mrs. M. A. Hunter pre-
siding. We were favored on that occasion with
the company of Sister Presendia L. Kimball
and Helen Mar Whitney, of Salt Lake. There
was also present, of the Stake officers, Sister
Mary A. Hunter, Emily Warburton and M.
A. House. The following local officers were
selected and put in office by the unanimous
vote of the people, viz: President, Sister
Jemima E. Stookey; Counselors, Sisters
America Johnson and Mary Emma Davis;
Secretary, Mrs. Barbara A. Bush; Assistant
Secretary, Miss Lena Guhl; Treasurer, Mrs.
Mary A. Guhl. The ladies from the city ad-
dressed us in the kindest possible manner; giv-
ing advice and counsel, that would be well for
us all to remember. They also expressed them-
selves gratified at the warm and cordial greet-
ings they had met with on all sides. Eulogized
to the utmost our beautiful fertile valley, and
thought we had many things to be thankful
for.
	Bishop St. Joer spoke kindly and encourag-
ingly, and assured us that we could count on
him at any and all times, as a staunch and true
friend to the ladies. As the ladies from abroad
were a little crowded for time, and wished to
reach their homes that evening, our meeting
was of necessity brief; general good feeling
prevailing.				B. A. BUSH,
							Secretary.

HARRISVILLE, WEBER CO.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	Our settlement extends some five or six
miles from south-east to north-west: in consid-
eration of the scattered condition of the
Saints it was considered advisable to divide or
rather organize another Society in the western
part of the ward, the two societies to be desig-
nated as East and West Harrisville. The or-
ganization of the Society of West Harrisville
took place on April 28th, 1881. The Stake
President, Sister Jane S. Richards, and Coun-
selors were present, also the Bishop and his
Counselors, we were also favored with the

[Column 2]
presence of Apostle F. D. Richards, who gave
us some excellent advice and instruction in re-
gard to our duties as Societies and Saints. The
following persons were elected as officers: Mary
Hegstead, President; Mary Taylor and Eliza C.
Larkins, Counselors; Christina Hegstead, Sec-
retary; and Eliza Jane Rawson, Treasurer.
Since our organization the sisters have taken a
lively interest in their meetings and in doing
what they could by way of relieving the wants
of the poor and comforting the sick, and doing
what they could to forward the interests of
the Kingdom of God.
	Our President takes an active part in all our
meetings, and leads out in every thing that
we have to do, and to show our appreciation
of her many virtues as an energetic and lively
worker, and the kindly feeling the sisters en-
tertain towards her, we surprised her with a
cashmere dress pattern and trimmings com-
plete. This was at our second annual meet-
ing, May 24th, 1883.
	We all enjoyed this meeting, and will long
remember the good spirit that was manifested
by all who spoke. We hold our meetings
every two weeks.
	Ever desiring the welfare of Zion, etc.,
		CHRISTINA HEGSTEAD, SECRETARY.

JUAB STAKE Y. L. M. I. A.

	On the 23rd of June, at ten a.m., the Young
Ladies Association of Juab Stake organiza-
tion met in conference in the Nephi meeting
house, President M. E. Teasdale presiding.
	After the opening exercises the reports of
the various wards were read, and verbal reports
given, showing the growth and improvement
of the association. The Young Ladies Jour-
nal, a manuscript paper, was read and highly
approved by the speakers. The time was nearly
all taken up according to the programme, by
the members of the association, in recitations,
songs and short speeches; after which Brother
Charles Sperry, President Paxman's counselor,
spoke encouragingly to the young ladies.
Bishop Warner, Udall and Haws and several
other brethren were present. Much good coun-
sel and instruction was given, both by the
brethren and sisters, and a good spirit prevailed.
Singing. Benediction.
			JENNIE EVANS, SECRETARY.

JUAB P. S.

	At two p.m. of the same day and at the
same place, the Juab County Stake organiza-
tion of Relief Society, held their quarterly Con-
ference by appointment, Sisters Elizabeth Ken-
dall and Jane Pixton, Counselor of our late
President, presided over the conference.
	Financial and statistical reports were read,
and verbal reports given by the presidents of
the different branches. All went to show that
the Society was in a good condition, and that
the sisters are alive to their duties, and striving
to do all they can to help on the good word.
We all sorely feel the loss of our late President
Goldsbrough, but realize that the Lord doeth
all things well; let his will be done; yet many
a teardrop fell from those over whom she had
presided.
	Our conference being held on the 15th anni-
versary of the organization of our Relief So-
ciety, the Nephi Society met in the Pelief
Hall, in the evening. President Paxman and
several of the brethren met with us, and the
Spirit of God was manifest in our meeting.
Sister McClean and Harvey were here on a
visit, and spoke to the sisters, and bore testi-
mony of the good spirit and influence they en-
joyed in visiting with us.
	Altogether we had a time of rejoicing, and
felt to thank ou Heavenly Father for the
great blessings we enjoyed.
				AMY L. BIGLER,
							Stake Secretary R. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 31


PANGUITCH, GARFIELD CO.

	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Society of the Panguitch Stake of Zion,
held in the Relief Society Hall, June 1st, 1883.
On the stand, President Barbara Myers, Coun-
selors Alvira J. Clark and Sarah P. Crosby,
and several of the brethren. Conference
opened with the usual exercises of singing and
prayer, reading of minutes and reports, and the
presidents of the different societies gave verbal
reports, and also bore their testimonies to the
truth of the Latter-day work.
	President Myers made opening remarks; said
the Stake was so scattered, did not expect a
representative from every ward, but wanted
the sisters to be on hand to attend to their du-
ties as much as possible. We had a great work
to perform to put down iniquity; should set a
good example before the young, to be kind and
generous in our feelings, and not be quarrel-
some with our neighbors; wished the brethren
to meet with us, needed their counsel.
	President J. W. Crosby said he was sorry
there were not more representatives present,
urged the secretaries to get their reports up in
proper shape, said we had the ability, all we
needed was practice; regretted there was not
more interest with the young; said our societies
were for mutual benefit; wanted the sisters in
traveling round the Stake to urge the neces-
sity of storing grain, it being President Young's
counsel for years; said he wanted us to be on
our guard and cease evil speaking, and try to
entertain everything that was good and pure.
	Brother M. M. Steele said mothers should
be careful about the first impressions made up-
on their children; told us what our societies
were for, and to live up to their privileges, and
not withold the knowledge we were in posses-
sion of, but try and reclaim the erring.
	After singing and prayer, conference ad-
journed for three months.
					SARAH P. CROSBY,
								Secretary.


BELLE HARRIS' CASE.

	While this persecuted lady remains as a
prisoner without law or justice, we do not
think any reasonable person will consider it
out of order to speak in defence of the right.
Whether intended or not, the action of the
courts in this case aims a blow at the rights of
every woman in all Christian countries. With
this view, (which is a correct one) every right
minded woman in the nation should raise her
voice or wield the pen in the defence of a lady
who is a living martyr to the rights of women.
Ladies, listen! A virtuous, high-minded lady
is imprisoned for declining to answer an imper-
tinent lawyer whether she is married or single.
Let all mothers ask themselves whether they
would not think (if women have any rights)
that their daughters might be allowed to de-
cline divulging their social status without a
fine and indefinite imprisonment being im-
posed upon them. We presume the attorney
thought he could Paul Pry some from information
Miss Harris on the subject of her former
rumored polygamous relations, but this is only
supposition, as no such question has been
named, before the grand jury. The law sup-
poses nothing; with the same propriety might
a neighboring attorney ask one of our eastern
ladies whether she ever had any words with
her husband, if so, when and where? This is
no exaggeration of the case, nor does it do jus-
tice to our much injured heroine advocate of
the rights of our sex. From what we have
heard of the case, it Miss Harris had aught
but the cause of women at stake she might
have readily found an excuse to gratify the in-
quisitive attorney. Her ancestors for several
generations were highly respected American
citizens, and Miss Belle would suffer any sacri-


fice rather than bring disgrace upon her noble
sires who spent blood and treasure rather than
submit a to lighter yoke than she now wears, for
universal freedom, and especially for the eman-
cipation of women from the oppressive hand
of the legal (?) lords of creation. If noble,
high-minded men cannot alone break the foul
tyrant's rod. let the daughters of Eve stand in
the place designed by the Great Creator and
show themselves willing helpmeets, especially
when he takes the lead in the warfaae for the
elevation of women to her rightful position by
his side.
	In conclusion I ask American ladies every-
where (and especially those of my own native
State) to let their voices be heard and their
pens wielded in the defence of true and correct
principles of woman's emancipation, irrespec-
tive of condition, sect, or former station.
			Most respectfully,
					A NEW YORK LADY.


[Column 1]
DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	On the sixth inst., the Y. L. M. I. Society
was held in Sister Julia Howe's parlor, which
she kindly and politely places at the disposal
of the young ladies for that purpose.
	On that day Dr. Shipp had kindly acceded
to a proposition that she should lecture for the
young sisters' instruction, and about three
o'clock the room was filled; the invitation had
been general to all who desired to attend.
Meeting was opened with the usual prelimi-
naries, singing, prayer and the reading of the
minutes etc.; and I felt there was a sweet waiting
spirit in the room—at this moment Dr. Shipp
arrived, she had been engaged with a patient,
which detained her a short time, and I was
sorry to see she had been hurried, and was
flushed with the haste she had made to be punc-
tual; but a few moments sufficed to regain all
her wonted self possession, which, in her pro-
fessional duties, is a remarkable feature. I feel
I must here say a few words in description of
this lady physician, and I confess to some
favoritism in regard to her, but still, in all I
shall say I shall only be just. I have a keen
eye to all that is admirable in the human face
or form, in gesture or expression, and certainly
in manners. Sister Shipp is formed by nature
to elaborate her profession, and of course edu-
cation has assisted in this grand essential. Let
me here say, I trust she will pardon this little
loving freedom, if she thinks it needs it, when
I assure her my heart dictates my words, and
that truth and rich appreciation inspires them.
By this prelude I introduce Dr. Ellis Shipp
upon the tapis.
	In form and feature she is a living model of
her teachings, the former being as free as na-
ture made it, and denotes a perfectly healthy
organism; yes—an athlete of the refined, elas-
tic mould; her head is well placed, and its form
denotes equilibrium of temperament and
character; the features are purely womanly;
the eye in itself a study, denoting sensitiveness,
refinement and purity; yet with all there is
much force and quiet dignity in that character,
and great power of concentration. Though
she came from a sick chamber, and evidently
had hurried to keep her appointment, and was
heated with her walk and carrying her charts;
it took but a few moments for her to regain
her usual placid manner, and at once com-
menced her lecture, which she gave with the
calm dignity of one who fully realized the
grand importance of her subject, and that she
was expiating on the wonderful and mysterious
works of the Great Creator, exhibited in the
human organism; the care and preservation of
which she desired to impress upon her
hearers; was a grand responsibility laid upon

[Column 2]
the possessor; to arouse this knowledge and ap-
preciation, was the motive-power of her lecture;
and I felt that the youthful portion of her au-
dience must have received many a startling
idea, to which they had before been strangers—
their intense silence during the whole lecture
denoted their great interest, and called forth
from the lecturer warm enconiums. I feel
much impressed with the necessity of such lec-
tures to the young, and indeed to all ages; for
how much sorrow and sickness, pain, and often
death has been caused by sheer ignorance of
the science of life in young people of both
sexes. Surely our boys need teaching in this
august science equally with our girls! yet how
little appears to be thought of educating and
cultivating this wonderful, this beautiful struc-
ture that composes the human organism. How
often do the sublime words of the Psalmist oc-
cur to me: "We are fearfully and wonderfully
made." It appears to me that the whole range
of natural history would greatly assist in blot-
ting out the present fashionable, but deadly
theory of infidelity; such a study speaks
trumpet-tongued to every honest, intelligent
soul, of a Divine Creator; and when we see such
intense study has been bestowed upon the mor-
tal part, what may we not imagine of the
glory—the surpassing glory of the immortal soul
that inhabits it! well may every thinking mind
realize the fact that, our noblest study is the
study of ourselves; "Know thyself," was the
injunction of a wise, Greek philosopher, and
thre are volumes in those two small words!
Yes indeed, and that study should be especially
incorporated in the scholastic routine of every
boy and girl, and maturer minds would do well
to make themselves acquainted with the science
of life; that they might instruct the younger.
Who is so competent as a parent to lay—at any,
rate the rudiments of such a science before their
children, that they may grow up wise and pure,
strong and healthy.
	What fortunes are spent in training, culti-
vating and improving our noblest animals,
while being, made in the image of God, is
left to blind chance, without a thought beyond
feeding and clothing—the precious mind also,
left to grow like an unweeded garden; surely,
surely there must be a day of reckoning for
such unpardonable apathy, or thoughtless ig-
norance. "Oh daughters of Zion awake from
thy slumbers"—Oh! mothers in Zion write up-
on your memories as with a pen of iron, that
your children will transmit these organizations
they are now forming, even to coming genera-
tions; if feeble, meagre and unhealthy, frail or
deformed, so will they be transmitted. Will
you not desire to look forward to a noble lin-
eage, that shall then show forth a type of their
divine origin? Remember their bodies are the
habitation of an immortal spirit! surely as Lat-
ter-day Saints, with our light and knowledge,
we ought to lay these thoughts to our hearts—or
we had better have remained in the world
where the body at any rate is watched over
with especial care, that it may develop favor-
ably.
	God bless our teachers, in whatever shape or
form they come! God bless our lecturers, that
lay before us the laws of life and health and
longevity, all of which are incomparably above
the dross of gold and silver, fine clothes, or
handsome houses—for they bestow a heritage
that the possessor will be grateful for in all
coming time, and carry through the countless
ages of eternity. Such indeed compose the
germs of the immortal being, and should there-
fore be the daily lesson of daily life, to aid and
assist in a glorious development.


God often works more by the life of the
illiterate, seeking the things which are His,
than by the ability of the learned, seeking the
things that are their own.—Ans[---].


32	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


JUNE.

The queen of Summer—month of June,
	Is here with joy and song;
And oh, the roses and the posies
	So sweet, she brings along!

Cheery June days, warm and bright,
	So full of blissful life,
Give purest joy, without alloy,
	Nature with love is rife.

Her angels—butterflies, hover 'round,
	Fair types of the "new birth;"
And the white clover spreads all over
	Like snow, to cool the earth.

Love, fragrance, beauty everywhere;
	Around, below, above;
The bright birds sing, the welkins ring
	And echo, "All is love."

We, who love nature and her God,
	In sympathy can meet;
The birds are ours, and the flowers,
	Through them, in love, we greet.

We see the same sky overhead,
	The white clouds on its blue,
Or gemmed with stars—they too are ours;
	 A bond of friendship true.

Leaf, bud and blossom, fragrance, song,
	The bright blue sky above,
Our hearts atune, in merry June,
	To melody and love.

Love to God who giveth all—
	The blossom, bud and leaf;
Praise we'll sing to Natures King,
	The God of life and death.
							EMILY SCOTT.
June 23rd, 1883.


LOGAN Y. L. M. I. A.

	The regular Quarterly Conference of the Y.
L. M. I. Associations of Cache Valley Stake
of Zion was held in Logan Tabernacle, Satur-
day, June 2nd, at ten a.m. Present on the
stand were General Superintendent Elmina
S. Taylor and Sister Elizabeth Howard, Stake
Superintendent H. A. Preston and Counselors,
supported by a fair representation from the
Associations thronghout the Stake. After
singing prayer the minutes of last confer-
ence were read and approved.
	Counselor I. I. Cook made brief prelimi-
nary remarks, requesting those who were
called to make verbal reports to be brief and
comprehensive.
	Representatives from nineteen Associations
responded to the roll and briefly reported the
leading features of their meetings and the
work that had been accomplished since last
conference. The improved manner of report-
ing might be considered an index to the pro-
gress made by the Associations.
	The secretary presented the half yearly fi-
nancial and statistical report which showed an
increase in membership and the societies in
good financial condition.
	Supt. H. A. Preston expressed her apprecia-
tion of the reports from the representation and
gave a general report as Stake Supt., making
special reference to the officer's monthly meet-
ings which were inaugurated for the purpose
of securing uniformity and thoroughness in all
the associations.
	Sisters Taylor and Howard spoke at length
upon subjects of most vital importance to the
young ladies. They urged purity of thought,
word and deed, both at home and in society.
Everything should be encouraged in meetings
that has an elevating tendency. Good music,
good reading, historical and biographical exer-
cises should intersperse those of a religious
character, that the interest in the meetings
might be lively and that the mental tendencies
of each member might be cultivated.
	The Deseret Hospital was referred to by the


speakers, who explained the object and benefit
of such an institution among the Saints, and
all were invited to become contributors to a
general fund to aid in supporting it, as it is
not yet self-sustaining; small contributions col-
lected from each member would considerably
aid the Hospital in its charitable work.
	Sisters Cook and Preston made brief re-
marks in conclusion, expressing thanks for the
attendance of Sisters Taylor and Howard, and
for their valuable counsel and encouragement.
	Conference adjourned to meet early in Sep-
tember. Benediction.
			ALLY MARTINEAU, Secretary.


The only way to shine, even in this false
world, is to be modest and unassuming. False-
hood may be a thick crust, but in the course of
time truth will find a place to break through.
Byrant.


[Column 1]
For Sale at this Office.

BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.

PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,		-	25c. per copy.
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,		40c.	"
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1.		-		$1.00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco,	-	1.50

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
Office and residence. 11th Ward, 7 blocks east
of the Deseret National Bank, and a half
block north, west side of the street.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.

KNITTING FACTORY,
On 1st W. St., Bot. 21 and 31 North, Next Door South of W. H. Hooper's.
Men's Socks, Ladies' and Childrens' Stockings, Infants
Knitted Shirts and Shoes, Ladies' and Children's Hoods,
etc. Family Knitting done on Reasonable Terms.
CAROLINE C. RALEIGH,
19th WARD, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE, AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

ELLEN B. FURGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office and Residence on 2d South between 2d
and 4d East Streets.

Special Study has been given to SURGERY, DISEASES
OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS,
☞ Can be Called by Telephone Day or Night.

[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
☞ We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

[Image of store]
HENRY DINWOODEY.

FURNITURE,
WALL PAPER,
CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUINS
AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY.

F Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods,
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
☞ CALL AND EXAMINE. ☜


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 12.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1, 1883.	NO. 5.


LOVINGLY ADDRESSED

TO SISTER MARINDA HYDE ON HER BIRTH-
DAY, JULY, 1883.

There are some lives that should be told
By pen that's dipt in liquid gold!
Not that they wore an earthly crown,
Or slept on beds of elder-down;
Not that they robed in royal sheen,
Or bore the title of a queen
To whom grand courtiers bend the knee,
And kiss the hand in fealty.
All this is well, if good and true,
But such were not within the view
I had, when in these opening lines
I wished for gold to trace my rhymes.
A form that God himself has blest
Before my mental vision prest;
It bears the index of a soul
Formed and sustained by God's control;
And by that all-supporting aid
Has passed life's sunshine and its shade,
And both have left their well known trace
Upon the form and on the face.
But naught its beauty could destroy,
Twas made the brighter by alloy.
Yes, Lady, all that I can say
Shall but enlarge thy wreath of bay.
A humble offering 'tis I bring,
A humble song my heart doth sing,
And fondly lay them at your feet
On this your natal day—to greet
You with a sister's faithful smile;
Who feels to bless you all the while,
And pray you many days may see
That brings Nativity to thee!
And pray you many days may see
That brings Nativity to thee!
And rest assured had I the power
I'd renovate you from this hour.
I ask your life prolonged may be
Your children's children's children see.
And health and plenty still be thine,
And God be with thee, sister mine!
Accept the birthday song I sing;
Your loving sister H. T. King.
						HANNAH T. KING.
Salt Lake City.


SPIRIT OF SONG INSPIRE ME.

BY M. J. T.

Sweet spirit of song inspire me,
	Lend me thy magical lay;
Children are crying and tire me;
	Why dost thou linger away?

Spirit of song stay near me,
	And wait tilI the supper is through;
My heart is sighing to hear thee,
	But now there is so much to do.

My mind is confused with the hurry;
	My head like a cart wheel goes 'round
There is nothing but labor and worry
	In woman's whole life to be found.

There's knitting, and darning, and sewing,
	And cooking and washing, I trow;
A hundred things more that need doing;
	And baby is king, you all know.

Spirit of song, I am weary
	With cares that I cannot evade;
The weather is cheerless and dreary,
	And this the first rhyme I have made.

Come to my aid, I implore thee,
	Unto my sorrow give ear;
Clouds that are looming before me
	Fly when thy presence is near.

Polly is dusting the parlor,
	And Jennie is making the fire,


I'll put the tea kettle over,
	And then to my room I'll retire.

First I must tend to the baby
	And wash little Tommy's sweet face;
Susie has got her dress dirty,
	And Jack has been running a race.

Sister came over this morning,
	And wondered what made me so "blue;"
Cook left last night without warning,
	And what is a body to do?

There's a limit to every endeavor.
	Not matter how hard we may try,
Unless we are watching we never
	Can tell how the time passes by.

Spirit of song, you are glowing,
	And often my bosom inspire;
The rest to their slumbers are going,
	And I to my bed must retire.


[Column 1]
﻿TO MY LITTLE BROTHERS.

	Now I do not know of anything that pleases
me more than reading about the "Children's
Fair" in the EXPONENT, and I feel like prais-
ing them for their noble efforts of industry, al-
though I am behind time in so doing, but I
have not forgotten what I have read about
their little specified articles. Methinks I see
their little fingers turning and trying to fit
everything to its place, and their young minds
active in forming something new for each com-
ing fair. How nice and good this is of them
to respond to the call of those who are trying
to teach them the principles of industry. Do
not one of you little boys and girls neglect to
take an active part in each coming fair where
you live, you can all do something. I will
make a few suggestions to awaken a interest
in boys learning trades, and that while young.
Have any of you made pottery-ware? Little
cups, plates, saucers, pitchers and jars for your
little sisters to put in their play houses. Now,
I will try to tell you how to make pottery
ware, if I have not forgotten the process. My
father was a potter, and when I was a child I
have stood by and looked on to see the lump of
useless clay made into things of all shapes
and kinds for domestic use. Our loaf sugar
was first made in clay molds of various sizes,
these I have seen made and warehouses full of
them before shipment. Thousands of dollars
have been made by their manufacture. I
promised to tell how these things were made,
we will work on a small scale. Get some good
clay, make it fine by hammering it on a board
with a mallet; make a bench a yard long and
a half yard wide, with a hole in the centre to
place an upright through, on this put a wheel
plat, there must be something at the bottom
like a small spinning wheel arrangement to
move the wheel around with the feet.
	Make a high stool to sit on, put a basin of
water on the bench to wet your hands and the
clay, have a piece of thin wire, put a piece of
clay the size of an orange on the wheel, wet
the clay and wheel before putting it on, wet
your hands, now turn the wheel quickly, put
both hands around the clay and form it bulging
in the middle, place your finger in the centre to
make a hole, then use both hands to draw out
until your flower pot is made, take the wire
with both hands and carry it under the pot,
this cuts it off the wheel, place it on a board
to stiffen and dry, bake it in an oven.
	The potter can make any shaped vessel out
of clay on the wheel when in motion with his

[Column 2]
hands, without a pattern. Now, little boys,
would you not like to make dishes in this easy
way; you could sit all day at your work and
only get off your seat when the vessel is fin-
ished to place it upon the board to dry. You
must get your father to assist you in learning
to make those little things, and bring them to
the fair, and bring your bench and let us see
how it is made. You can find in the Scrip-
ture where it says you can make a vessel to
honor or dishonor. But I hope my dear
young friends may grow up to manhood ves-
sels of honor in the Kingdom of their Hea-
venly Father. I should like also to tell the
boys how to make felt hats if I do not make
my article too long. Two of my own
brothers and two brothers-in-law were hatters,
and my trade was to trim them. I worked
at it in the States and here in the city. I
trimmed hats for Brother Heywood and my
brother. I think a trade is a good help for
either sex, by this means I helped to support
myself and children while my husband was on
his various missions sounding the Gospel
trump to the nations. I have wandered from
my subject, I was going to tell how hats were
made.
	Heat a kettle full of water. Take a smooth
board and nail it on a stand, make the two
front legs shortest so that the water can run
ihto the kettle, make a proper height to stand
by. Get skins of animals and pluck out the
coarse hair, put this by itself, then pluck out
the fine, using a knife for this purpose. Take
the coarse and dip in the hot water, it will
begin to cling and pull together, then com-
mence to stretch and roll the piece up, free-
ly dipping in the hot water, stretch the cloth
in a round piece, make a round block of wood
large enough for a doll's hat, while wet pull it
over the block and leave a piece for the brim,
turn down with the block inside with the brim
on the board, and let it dry in shape. You
can leave it the natural color or dye it black.
This is what is called the fulling process. Now
try, boys, and make a doll's hat for the fair.
	To be continued to the little girls.
						MARY ANN PRATT.


Madame Rudersdorff, who recently died, was
a most entertaining woman, in addition to be-
ing a thorough musician. The stories of her
life are full of interest. She was a great
favorite with the Princess Royal of England,
who is now the Crown Princess of Prussia.
Shortly after the marriage of the Princess,
Madame Rudersdorff sang at a Court concert
at Berlin, and was invited by the Crown Prin-
cess to breakfast with her. They breakfasted
together informally, and afterwards madame
sang several songs of Handel's the Princess's
favorite composer, her Royal hostess playing
her accompaniments. After a while the Prin-
cess proposed a visit to the nursery. As
madame was sitting on the floor, with one child
playing with the charms of her watch chain,
another hanging over her shoulder, and the
baby in her arms, the door opened, and the
Crown Prince walked in. The Princess arose
and introduced her visitor. Madame looked
up, and, with her ready tact and wit, said,
"Your Royal Highness, I must either disregard
Court etiquette or drop the baby." The Prince
bowed courteously, and said, with a smile' 'Do
what you like with etiquette, but regard the
baby."—Selected


34	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SCENES IN NAUVOO, AND INCIDENTS
FROM H. C. KIMBALL'S JOURNAL.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	"It is not merely that you may see these
things, but it is a matter of fact, a matter that
has to do directly with your salvation, for
which you have talked and labored many
years. It is not for amusement you are
brought to receive these things, but to put you
in possession of the means of salvation, and be
brought into a proper relationship to God—
hence a man becomes responsible for his own
conduct and that of his wife, if he has one. It
is not designed that the things that are pre-
sented to-day should be forgotton to-morrow,
but be remembered and practiced through all
coming life—Hence it is a stepstone to ap-
proach to the favor of God. Having descended
to the lowest state of degradation, it is
the begining of a homeward journey; it is
like a man lost in a wilderness, and the means
with which we are invested here are to direct
us in our homeward journey. You then see
the reason why you are required to put away
your vanities, cease to talk of all those things
which are not conducive to eternal life. This
is why you are required to be sober, to be
honest, that you could ask and receive, knock
and it should be opened, and that when you
sought for things you would find them. It is
putting you in possession of those keys by
which you can ask for things you need and ob-
tain them. This is the key by which to obtain
all the glory and felicity of eternal life. It is
the key by which you approach God. No im-
pression which you receive here should be lost.
It was to rivet the recollections of these things
in your memory, like a nail in a sure place
never to be forgotton. The scenery through
which you have passed is actually laying be-
fore you a picture or map, by which you are to
travel through life, and obtain an entrance
into the celestial Kingdom hereafter. If you
are tempted in regard to these things here, you
will be tempted when you approach the
presence of God hereafter. You have, by be-
ing faithful, been brought to this point, by
maintaining these things which have been en-
trusted to you.		*	*	*	It is not
merely for the sake of talking over these things
that they are given to you, but for your bene-
fit and for your triumph over the powers of
darkness hereafter. We want the man to re-
member that he has covenanted to keep the
law of God, and the woman to obey her hus-
band, and if you keep your covenants you will
not be guilty of transgression. The line that
is drawn is for you to maintain your covenants,
and you will always be found in the path of
obedience, after that which is virtuous and
holy and good, and will never be swallowed up
by unhallowed feelings and passions. If you
are found worthy and maintain your integrity,
and do not run away and think yon have got
all your endowment, you will be found worthy
after a while, which will make you honorable
with God. You have not yet been ordained to
anything, but will be by and by. You have
received these things because of your compli-
ance with all the requisitions of the law, and if
faithful you will receive more. You have now
learned how to pray. You have been taught
how to approach God and be recognized. This
is the principle by which the church has been
kept together, and not the power of arms. A
few individuals have asked for your preserva-
tion, and their prayers have been heard, and it
is this which has preserved you from being
scattered to the four winds. Those who have
learned to approach God and receive these
blessings, are they better than you? The only
difference is they have been permitted to have
these things revealed unto them. The princi-
ples which have been opened to you are the

[Column 2]
things which ought to occupy your attention
all your lives. They are not second to any-
thing; you have the key by which, if you are
faithful, you will claim on your posterity all
the blessings of the Priesthood."
	Elder H. C. Kimball said, "The ideas ad-
vanced by Brother Lyman are good and true.
*	*	*	God is like one of us, for He
created us in his own image. Every man that
ever came upon this earth, or any other earth,
will take the course we have taken—Another
thing, it is to bring us to an organization, and
just as quick as we can get into that order and
government, we have the celestial Kingdom
here. You have got to know your brethren or
you never can honor God. The man was
created, and God gave him dominion over the
whole earth, but he saw that he never could
multiply and replenish the earth without
woman; and He made one and gave her to him.
He did not make the man for the woman but
the woman for the man.		*	*	But
if a man does not use a woman well and take
good care of her, God will take her away from
him and give her to another. Perfect order
and consistency makes heaven, but we are now
deranged, and the tail has become the head.
*	*	*	One reason why we bring our
wives with us is that they may make a coven-
ant with us to keep these things sacred. 	*	*
You can't sin so cheap now as you could be-
fore you came to this order. It is not for us to
reproach the Lord's anointed, nor to speak evil
of him; all have covenanted not to do it."	*	*
	Elder George A. Smith made a few re-
marks; he spoke principally in relation to the
importance of keeping sacred those principles
which we had received.	*	*	He
was followed by Elder Orson Hyde.	*	*
The congregation was dismissed by prayer by
Elder John Taylor.
	Those teachings and the wonderful experi-
ence of the Latter-day Saints since they were
given, and the apostacy of some who were then
such bright and shining lights, have led me to
indulge in deep and sorrowful reflections on
the same. The awful and irreparable loss of
those whose great light has become darkness,
because they forgot and transgressed the very
laws and principles which their own lips were
inspired to utter in that house of God, and to
proclaim it for years after to the Saints, and al-
so to the nations afar off. And do we realize
that this warning voice has been sounding in
our ears for more than half a century, and
that the Lord is now coming out from His hid-
ing place to vex the nations, and that He will
no longer be trifled with? These things we
were forcibly reminded of by the late terible
fire in this city. Though the threats of men
could not make our knees tremble, God is able
to, and to humble us to the dust, and which I
truly believe he will do, and that quickly, un-
less we change from our present course in mix-
ing up and following in the ways of Babylon.
Being absent from the city at the time of that
dreadful fire, when hearing the awful tidings
it sounded like a death knell to departed hopes;
and this feeling was not lessened when hearing
repeatedly these old familiar words, uttered
years ago. Brother Heber predicted that
"whisky street" (Main Street) would yet burn
like an old tinder box." We also heard Presi-
dent Young speak in a similar manner. If it
deserved that title then, by what name should
it now be called, with other places established
since then, and sustained by the outside ele-
ment, and which are in a similar state of
putrefaction? We little looked for any-
thing of this kind when coming away
to this far off wilderness, and for many
years we were almost entirely free from
its contaminating influence. But these things
we suppose are necessary to prove us. It has
long been foretold that God's judgments should
commence at His house, and it appears to me that

[Column 3]
this is but the beginning, and that it stands us
in hand to search into our own hearts, and ask
ourselves if we are living up to all of His re-
quirements. We read that "Those who fear
the Lord will prepare their hearts and humble
their souls in His sight, saying, we will fall in-
to the hands of the Lord and not into the
hands of men, for as His majesty is, so is His
mercy." But how much longer can we look
for mercy? What hath not mercy mixed with
judgment done? How can we look for it if we
are not keeping His commandments and
the "Word of Wisdom" given by the Lord
through His Prophet Joseph, to the Latter-day
Saints on the 27th of February, 1833. It
was sent greeting—not by commandment or
constrained, but by revelation	*	*	*
showing forth the order and will of God in the
temporal salvation of all Saints in the last
days.
	"Behold, verily, thus saith the Lord unto
you, in consequence of evils and designs which
do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring
men in the last days, I have warned you and
forewarn you, by giving unto you this word of
wisdom by revelation.	*	*	*	*
And all Saints who remember to keep and do
these sayings, walking in obedience to the com-
mandments, shall receive health in their navel
and marrow to their bones, and shall find wis-
dom and great treasures of knowledge, even
hidden treasures; and shall run and not be
weary, and shall walk and not faint. And I
the Lord give unto them a promise, that the
destroying angel shall pass by them, as the
children of Israel and not slay them. Amen.
	My father's clerk wrote the following: "Dec.
23rd. Almon W. Babbit entered the Temple,
was invited by President Young into his room;
he brings report that officers from Springfield
are here, and several of the state troops after
the Twelve; particularly Amasa Lyman.	*	*
At three o'clock John Scott informed George D.
Grant that an officer and assistants were
watching for President Young and others at
the front door of the Temple. Brother Grant
carried the information to President Young,
who soon devised a scheme by which their in-
tentions to carry him off might be frustrated."
The President directed Brother William Mil-
ler, who was present at the time, to put on his
cloak, but which happened to be my father's—
their cloaks being precisely alike. He threw
it around Brother Miller's shoulders, and told
him to wear it and also his hat and accompany
George Grant to his carriage at the door, etc.
They followed his directions. Brother Clayton
wrote: "As Brother Miller was about to get
into the carriage with Elder Grant, the officer
and five or six of his assistants arrested him
supposing him to be President B. Young. They
were about to drive away with him, having
made their boasts that they would get as many
of the Twelve as they could--take them down
to Warren, and have a New Year's frolic kill-
ing them, but they were persuaded to drive to
the Nauvoo Mansion and tarry until to-morrow
morning, when the validity of the writ would
be tested.
	"They were kept in profound ignorance of
their mistake.	*	*	Esq. Babbit
takes the legal management of the case, and
when they have stopped long enough to make
a good tavern bill will probably get their eyes
open and put off."
	"Esq. Babbit came in at five o'clock, and re-
ports that the officer	*	*	has left
the city and gone to Carthage with the prisoner.
*	*	Lawyer Edmunds, a partner of
Mr. Babbit's, has gone with them to act as
counsel for the prisoner. The officer has writs
for B. Young, H. C. Kimball, P. P. Pratt,
John Taylor, George A. Smith, Amasa Lyman
and T. Turley, who are all charged with coun-
terfiting the coin of the United States."

To be Continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EVENTIDE.

It was in the summer gloaming,
The soft, sweet, purple gloaming,
When the paler rays of sunset blended with the shadows
gray,
And the fragrance of the flowers was heavy in the air,
And the silver threads of twilight whiten'd all along
the way,
Till a ghost-like stillness stole over all the landscape
fair,
That we wander'd in the garden,
The grand, old fashioned garden.

Ah, 'twas in the subtle gloaming,
The weird, entrancing gloaming,
When the shadows deepen'd darker, and the stars be-
gan to shine,
And one felt the heart of nature in its gentlest, tend'r-
est hour,
That we pledg'd our troth together where the roses in
tertwine;
And we reveled in the realms of fancy's potent power,
While we saunter'd in the garden,
The dear, old, homely garden.

What the whisper'd in the gloaming,
The dim uncertain gloaming,
In that murmur'd undertone that falls so softly on the
ear;,
While it swept along the rose-trees like the flutter of a
wing
Ling'ring down among the grasses as a presence over-
near,
Left a charm for years to come like a precious, living
thing;
Aye, for years 'twas in the garden,
The rude, neglected garden.

Oft at even in the gloaming,
The vague and solemn gloaming,
Have I listen'd for the echo of that whisper 'mid the
flow'rs;
Rich and mellow were the tones, like music, soft and
low,
And my happy heart made answer in those dreamy, sum-
mer hours,
As we vow'd to love each other, in that far-off, long ago
In the shad'wy old garden,
The dear, enchanted garden.

And still the purple gloaming,
The fair, deceitful gloaming,
Comes forever with the summer, just the same at even-
tide,
With the memories that haunt me of the beautiful and
bright,
And the glory of the hours that will evermore abide
In the soul of one that waits through the dark and
stormy night,
For that promise in the garden,
The dear, old fashion'd garden.

It is sweeter in the gloaming,
The calm and tranquil gloaming,
To recall the happy mem'ries that around our hearts
entwine;
While we are young and ardent, the future seems so
bright;
We could not dream that sorrow would shatter love's
fair shrine,
Or that darkness, sad and dreary, could follow its de-
light,
When we linger'd in the garden,
The balmy, fragrant garden.
But tho in the summer gloaming,
The strange, fantastic gloaming,
We only see faint shadows in a dim, unreal way,
Or waken old-time echoes, as from a far-off shore;
Yet we know to those who're faithful there will dawn
a roseate day,
A glorious to-morrow that will last for evermore,
In that fair, Elysian garden,
The first, primeval garden.			EMILE.


[Column 1]
			TWO DREAMS.

	What does it indicate to dream of snakes?
It means enemies, is the quick reply; and it
seems quite reasonable; to dream of a slimy,
venomous snake coiling and writhing around
you and suddenly to feel its quick  power-
ful bite cannot indicate anything that is good.

			[Column 2]
	Now comes the query, who can it mean? and
the mind will quickly revert to some one who
has said or done something that did not seem
quite right—one whom we had thought was our
friend, in whose company we had spent hours
of pleasure and satisfaction—one in whom we
had trusted and confided (too much perhaps)
we will think with an already awakening sus-
picion; and we cull over in our minds things
that have passed between us of a little unpleas-
ant nature, and though we had dropped them
at the time as not worth thinking about, they
now begin to assume gigantic proportions.
Shall we now begin to hold ourselves aloof and
to watch her with a jealous eye? Common
sense answers, no, it is unsaintlike, and unbe-
coming those of our profession to harbor such
feelings in our hearts; besides, do not those
smooth-tongued hypocritical beings originate
principally in the minds of novel writers? Is
there not some good in nearly all mankind,
and are we not too ready to think evil of each
other, and to disregard these words:? "Be full
of charity, for charity covereth a multitude of
sins."
	I will give another version of the dream.
The serpent is surely the enemy of all man-
kind—both saint and sinner are liable, accord-
ing as they give him power, to feel is venom-
ous sting; and this will be so until Satan is
bound, for he is ever on the alert to lead astray
the children of men, and to cause them to do
that which will debar them for an exaltation
in the kingdom of God. Artful and cunniug,
he will know the weak points in each one's na-
ture, and where he cannot induce them to com-
mit great crimes he will sow seeds of discord,
of jealousy and hatred; for he knows where
there is unity there is strength, and where
families and communities are bound together
by the strong ties of affection—where there is
a oneness of interest, feelings and desires,
there he is cast out and hath no abiding place
in their hearts. Let us illustrate for instance
your dear ones—those whose welfare and hap-
pinesss you prize above all else—in short you
feel as though an exaltation in the kingdom of
God would be incomplete without their pres-
ence and their love, your soul is drawn out
continually with a desire to see them advance
in all good works, that they may overcome the
adversary of mankind. They each have their
different friends and associates; and lo, you be-
hold the repulsive form of the venomous rep-
tile slowly and continually winding its way be-
tween them; suddenly he will dart his fiery
venom one way and another, and their unsus-
pecting, unguarded hearts must feel his sting,
yet all unconscious of his presence they hug
him closer and closer, and all your warnings
and pleadings and your grief seem of little
avail. He blinds their eyes to their own
faults, yet magnifies the faults of others; even
your own unselfish wishes for the good of all
are miscontrued, and you are accused on both
sides of partiality and a disregard for their
welfare; but you cannot cherish and uphold
one at the expense of the other, and wherever
you see the green eyes of the monster peering
you strike at them, though you should wound
a loved one in so doing.
	If you succeed in getting one who you have
perhaps considered a little the most bitter in
their feelings to take a step or two towards the
reconciliation and union you so much desire,
the other is sure to be more that usually obsti-
nate. Thus the gap seems to widen and all your
hopes to be frustrated. Oft you pray and weep
in secret, and so time goes on and on. Some-
times when sad and weary with the struggle
you seek a word of sympathy, but meet a re
buff where you least expected it; some thought-
less, unkind expression will add the one drop
too much for your over charged heart, and
long after the one who so unintentionally
added the drop is resting in quiet sleep, un-

			[Column 3]
conscions of the storm of grief their words
have awakened, you will live over and over
again scenes through which you passed with
so much apparent fortitude. Your head and
your heart seem bursting; your nerves strung
to their utmost tension, and still your thoughts
fly with uncontrolable swiftness, and the bit-
ter tears flow until the small hours come, and
you are aware that the morrow will find you
all unfit for your duties and responsibilities,
and you strive with all your powers of self
command to quiet your nerves and court sleep.
	At length in that half unconscious state be-
tween sleeping and waking, your every pulse
throbbing with pain, another scene passes be-
fore you, the death bed—not the death bed of
your loved ones that you have lived over so
oft, but one that perhaps you think of less
frequently, yourself.
	This is not difficult to imagine in your pres-
sent state of mind and body, and you see your
dear ones whom you are to leave behind
gathered around, their faces expressive of
anxiety and grief. Your eye glances from face
to face and you call for other dear friends who
though at enmity with some present, are still
near and dear to you. They come; and in low
but earnest words you make them understand
your desire to see them reconciled with each
other. With an eloquence awakened by near
approach to the last great change, you point
out the way—you give them this key—that all
that is good, all that tends to bind together
with unity and love, the desire to overcome
evils in themselves, and a willingness to over-
look faults in others, comes from God—that
the opposite of this comes from the evil one,
and should be avoided, as it will surely lead to
misery, both in this life and the life to come.
You entreat them by their hope of the great,
reunion with those dearest ones who have gone
before, their desire for joy, happiness and
peace, and an exaltation in the kingdom of
God; to be ever humble and prayerful, that
they may oyercome the evil and cleave to
the good. Then with joy at seeing upon each
face a determination to give heed to your
words you close your eyes, not in death, but
into that rest that you so much need. Could
not some of us profit by this dream while we
are still spared to dwell together?
							DORCAS.


PRAISE	THE LORD.

     "Praise the Lord, oh my soul, and in every
thing, give thanks,” is written somewhere.
Shall we not as monuments of God’s mercy re-
member these sayings and apply them in our
lives and in our actions? What privileges do
we not enjoy above the women of the world,
whether high or low, rich or poor? God is our
friend, His protecting hand is over us for good.
The Savior promised his children that peace,
which the world can neither give or take away,
with all its power, its boasted arrogance and
wealth. The humble Latter-day Saint would
not exchange places with any of the great ones
of this earth, and why? Because the true sat-
isfaction of knowing God for himself reigns
within his bosom. Truth is mighty and it
will prevail, that is the portion that feeds the
Saints day by day, and makes them rejoice
exceedingly in all that transpires, for God is
their friend; thus it is written: “As thy day
thy strength shall be.” He preserves our
brethren and sisters as they pass through fiery
trials of whatever name or nature they may
be. I rejoice in seeing our cause so bravely
fought inch by inch by the noble of the earth
whom Satan is trying to devour; but we know
that God Omnipotent reigneth, and He will
subdue his enemies under his feet.
     God bless all Israel, and bless you, our dear
Editor, and your co-workers is my prayer.
								B.M.


36				WOMAN’S EXPONENT
THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	.	.	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN’s EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, 	-	 AUGUST 1, 1883.


THE COMING ELECTION.

	The August election is close at hand, and is
certainly quite an important event. The
Woman's Journal of Boston (which, by the way,
has had a great deal to say lately on the Utah
question) says, "the August election will prove
an important crisis in the struggle against poly-
gamy.	*	*	The issue will come home
more directly to the people than did the elec-
tion of a congressional delegate last fall." The
journal knows very little, seemingly, about Utah
matters, notwithstanding all the recent visits
of correspondents and editors to Salt Lake.
There is no need of any fears on the part of the
people's pary here, nor any cause for rejoicing
on the part of those, who desire to see the
"Mormons" who have settled this country and
made it possible for them to live here and amass
fortunes, lose all the rights of American citizens
after redeeming the desert. There are plenty of
legal voters for the people's party after all are ex-
cluded that the interpretation of the Edmund's
bill by the Commissioners could possibly dis-
franchise. The Federal officials, registration
officers and judges of election have been very
particular to hunt up every pretext against any
and every "Mormon," to hinder the polling of
votes by the people's party, but with all their
diligence they will not succeed in their efforts
to gain the possession of the offices and the
treasury of the Territory. They must wait a
little longer, and while they are waiting the
"Mormon" population will increase so rapidly
that the end of their waiting will be woe to all
their hopes.
	The Lord has given this land to His people,
and He will hold them responsible if they do
not maintain their rights to its possession by
being on the alert to preserve the freedom that
is so essential to the life and happiness of Ame-
rican citizens. Every man and every woman
that has the privilege of voting should consider
it a sacred duty. It is just as much a duty as it
is to pray. But so far as the election settling
the question of plural marriage, the Journal is
far astray. The Federal officials here care less
about that principle than the world imagines.
They want to get possession of the Territory,
divest the "Mormon" people of all rights, civil,
political and religious, and drive them from
their inheritances, if they will not submit their
consciences to them. Let the people be wise,
prayerful and vigilant, strong in maintaining
their integrity to God and the Constitution of
their country, and all will be well. The race
that is growing up in these mountain fastnesses
are abundantly endowed, by Nature, with the
tenacity of purpose, and the determination to
maintain the rights of the people who first
planted their feet upon this desert land ere it
passed into the hands of the United States gov


emment, and they will assert their rights at the,
polls by voting for those men who will honor
the positions they are elected to fill, and defend
the rights of the men and the women who
have, by their industry and intelligence, made
the country desirable, although many of these
noble citizens are now denied any political priv-
ileges.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	A VENERABLE WOMAN will be continued in
our next number. The manuscript having been
burned, there is some delay in getting the items.
	MISS EMMA ATKIN, daughter of George At-
kin, of Tooele City, is now spending her vaca-
tion at her home, after two years study in the
Woman's Medical College in Philadelphia. She 
has passed her examination in the first regular
course of study. Last year she spent her vaca-
tion in study with a class in elocution, in Coburg,
Canada. She will return to Philadelphia this
fall to pursue her medical studies, and graduate
as an M. D. She is a bright, intelligent girl,
and has all the necessary natural ability to suc-
ceed in the profession. Utah has just reason to
be proud of its young lady graduates.
	JOTTINGS BY THE WAY.—Is the title of a
neat little pamphlet of about 70 pages, by George
W. Johnson, St. George, Utah, containing songs
and poems, mostly of a religious tone, and some
prose articles that are very interesting. The
Johnsons were connected with the Church as
early as 1831; they are from the State of New
York, though the parents were from Massachu-
setts.
	Most of the poems are very good indeed, and
evince considerable poetic talent as well as a
mind clear to comprehend truth and the high-
er elements of human character. We see noth-
ing in it to condemn, and therefore commend it
to the Saints everywhere as worthy a place in
their libraries.
	NEW CLASS IN MIDWIFERY.—Dr. Romania B.
Pratt announces by advertisement that she will
commence a new class in midwifery on October
8th, at one o'clock p.m., at her office, over
Godbe, Pitts and Co's drug store. Her school in
this important branch of medicine, was estab-
lished in 1878, and has been eminently success-
ful, she having instructed two classes a year
from that time. Dr. Pratt is not only conver-
sant with the theory of the subject in its details,
but her active practical experience adds an im-
portant feature to her power to communicate
correctly all necessary information to her pupils.
Mrs. Pratt's office is pleasant and central, and as
the whole time is spent upon the subject in
hand, the student is enable to go to work
at once. The rooms are elegantly and conven-
iently fitted up for the course of lectures, and
she has all the needful apprutanances pertaining
to this branch of science, charts, manikin, etc.
Students from a distance can, by taking rooms
and boarding themselves, get along on compara-
tively limited expense. For terms see adver-
tisement.


OLD LETTER.
[EXTRACTS OF A LETTER WRITTEN BY EDWARD
	PARTRIDGE, FIRST BISHOP OF THE CHURCH
	OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS,
	TO HIS PARENTS AND FRIENDS IN MASSA-
	CHUSETTS OCT. 22ND, 1834.]

	I want you to be saved in the third heaven, or
Celestial Kingdom of God. This kingdom is
reserved for the Church of the First Born, even
those who have come up through much tribula-
tion. This is the kingdom that a man cannot
see unless he is born again; this is the kingdom
that a man cannot enter except he is born of
water and the Spirit; this is the kingdom a man
must forsake all things for. He must have
faith sufficient to even lay down his life for it if
required. I have forsaken the world for this
kingdom, and how soon I shall be called upon
to lay down my life for the sake of Christ I
know not; but if it ever be required of me I hope
I may have fortitude to withstand the trial and
not deny the Lord that brought me.
	Notwithstanding you are honest unto man I
ask, are you honest to God in all things? If not,
have a conscience void of offense before
Him? I leave you to answer these questions
yourselves. I can assure you it is not a trifling
thing to give up all for Christ's sake, to be will-
ing to even lay down our lives in His cause. I
know more about these things than I did when
I saw you last. I have been in the hands of a
wicked mob, and knew not but they would kill
me. I have even sat in my house for hours
with the door open, expecting the mob to take
me the second time, when one of their leaders
had sworn that I should die that day, or he
would. You may judge for yourselves what
were my feelings. I can say I felt composed,
and was determined to lay down my life if God
required it.
	I knew they had no power only as it was
granted unto them. I have seen the mob by
hundreds, armed, and to all appearances ready
to destroy men, women and children. Compan-
ies on horseback passing the houses of women
and children where there was no man. threaten-
ing the lives of all who did not clear out before 
night. They appeared to me more like fiends of
hell than men. Priests headed at least two of
those companies. I do not know but the revela-
tion of those scenes will more than ever con-
vince you that I am not sane; but be it so, you
must have your own opinion. I know I am not
deluded. I suppose you think that you would
not persecute any people as we have been 
persecuted. Take heed then that you do not op-
pose this work, for when the Lord withdraws
His spirit you know not what you may be left
to do. The Savior told his disciples that the
day would could that those who would put them
to death would think they were doing God's
service. And verily I say unto you they that
are not for us are against us; and the day will
come when all parties will join together as they
 did in Jackson Co. to oppose the truth and put
down the people of God. Therefore, I say, take
heed to yourselves lest, peradventure, you are
fighting against God. Christ and his Apostles
were never know to persecute, but bore all
things which that wicked generation was
pleased to put upon them. From this we learn
that those who have the Spirit of Christ never
persecute, but are always persecuted, as we may
learn both from sacred and profane history.
The Bible says, they that have not the Spirit of
Christ are none of His. Here is a criterion
whereby we may judge ourselves. I once more
entreat you to carefully examine this subject;
make not a hasty judgement, for truth will bear
an investigation. Spare no pains to ascertain the
truth, and remember that the Spirit of Christ
leadeth into all truth. Throw aside all prejudice
and remember that one truth is worth a thou-
sand errors. If you are wise you are wise for
yourselves; and may the Lord help you by His
Holy Spirit, that you may be wise in time, that
in eternity we may meet in the Celestial King-
dom of God to spend an eternity in His
presence.


PIONEER DAY.
The Twenty Fourth of July, Pioneer Day.
A Sabbath for the Saints. Blessed be the day
forever. Many thoughts crowd themselves into
my mind this morning. The contrast of thirty-


[Column 1]
﻿six and forty years ago. Well might the Pio-
neers shout from the fulness of their hearts,
when their eyes first beheld the broad acres of
this beautiful valley. They saw in vision the
future home of the Saints loom up in beauty
and grandeur; they saw a safe retreat from their
oppressors; they viewed with pleasure the lofty
mountains; the limped water flowing down
through the rugged canyons; and notwithstand-
ind the aspect of the country generally was for-
bidding, even that was in their favor, for no one
was so greedy as to desire its prssession in those
days. Here was a place for the Saints to rest
their weary feet; here was ground to stand upon;
here was water to drink and sagebrush to burn;
and with the few pounds of flour, and perhaps a
few ounces of sugar and tea. What more could
a people want? Well the peace and protective
influence that pervaded the place supplied the
lack of other things, for surely the people were
destitute of almost every earthy comfort. How
could it be otherwise, after being driven from
their homes and possessions time after time?
I look back upon the early days of this church;
the days in Nauvoo; when the Prophet Joseph
was with us; when he taught ME the principles
of plural marriage; my obedience to the same;
the varied circumstances attending it; his cruel
death; our exodus from our homes in the cold
winter, and the incidents attending our journey
in the wilderness; our arrival in these valleys.
I look with wonder upon the change that has been
wrought in the comparatively few years that
have past since we first arrived here; and I ex-
claim, "Surely the Lord's protecting hand has
been over this people!" In the days of Nauvoo
the holy order of celestial marriage was in its in-
fancy; it was not taught publicly, consequently
the people generally did not know of it. After
we crossed the Mississippi River it was not con-
sidered necessary to any longer conceal it. I
remember after crossing the river I sat myself
upon a fallen tree with my babe in my arms;
the snow was falling in large flakes, thick and
fast. I was cold and hungry, for food and cloth-
ing were scarce, and much had to be done before
comfortable quarters could be provided. Many
eyes were turned upon me, or rather upon my
baby; some with favor and some with disfavor
or contempt. Spiteful things were said, and the
oppressive influence that hovered over and
around me was so distressing that it seemed as
though I must sink; but God has sustained me
through it all.
	Spiritual wives, as we were then termed, were
not very numerous in those days, and a spiritual 
baby was a rarity indeed. On our journey from
Nauvoo the Saints would stop and form small 
settlements to recruit. I stopped at one of these
places a short time. Company after company
passed, and many hearing that a "spiritual wife
and child" were there, curiosity led them to
seek an interview. All pronounced the child
a bright and beautiful boy, the hondsomest child
they ever saw. And it was a child too born in
that despised relation called plural marriage.
Well, time has proved that all who professed to
be Saints were not Saints. Some did not like
that peculiar religious principle, although they
pretended so to do.
	I remember when my babe was about eighteen
months old I took him to a neighbors', one
woman looked at him and said, "Well, that is
the smartest spiritual child I ever saw." Another
lady asked her if she did not think spiritual
children were as smart as other children. She
answered she did not. I had my own thoughts.
Was it consistent to think the Lord would com-
mand his people to adopt a system of marriage
that would degenerate the mind of the human
species? I could not see it in that light. Well,
[...] those days the principle was new and strange,
[Column 2]
and so different from our traditions and the cus-
toms of our former lives, that we cannot wonder
that some balked a little. The contrast of to-
day and thirty-six years ago is very great in 
many respects. All know how it is to-day; but
few know how it was then. Now we see thrift
and plenty. The people have good homes and
an abundance of the comforts of life. Then it
was poverty and privation, toil and hardship.
But few children had been born in the celestial
order of marriage; now a great portion of this
territory is peopled with men and women born
in the order of plural, or celestial marriage,
with large families born and growing up in the
same holy order of matrimony, being taught in
all the pure principles of the Gospel. Truly the
Lord's hand is over this people for good. Blessed
be the name of the Lord.
								E. Dow.
	Salt Lake City, July 24th, 1883.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
NAUVOO THE BEAUTIFUL. 

[ON BOARD THE STEAMER PITTSBURG ON THE
MISSISSIPPI RIVER.]
LEAVING NAUVOO July 25th, 1883. 

MY OWN DEAR MOTHER:
	I tried so hard to write last night, but was so
tired that I fell asleep when I was writing.
Belle and I left St. Louis on the railway train
after eight o'clock on the evening of the 23rd,
and arrived at Montrose, Iowa, at five a.m. We
had such a day yesterday, such tramping
around that at night when we did stop we were
perfectly worn out. I was delighted with Nau-
voo. It is really a beautiful place, but such
stillness, such death-like silence, I never
dreamed of; they call it "The deserted City,"
and it is well named. Its situation is more
picturesque than anything I ever saw, and it
has such a weird, sad attraction about it for me,
that my eyes constantly filled with tears in spite
of all my efforts to keep them back. It was a
cool gray morning that we arrived at Montrose,
and the river was very quiet. We crossed in a
boat, and waited on the other side until our fel-
low traveler could go and find Mr. Smith and
his spring wagon to take us up to the hotel; he
soon came back with the old gentlemen and his
wagon. We rode up quite slow, so very slow,
that often I had to watch a stone or some object
on the ground to tell whether we were really
moving or not. However we did not mind, for
we had a splendid chance to look around at the
green fields, vineyards and beautiful hedges,
and the old tumbled down houses. Mr. Smith
pointed out to us several places where people
had lived whom we knew very well; it was very 
affecting. I thought of your sufferings, how 
perhaps you had gone through these same
streets, and of all the sorrow and trouble you
had known right there when you were so young.
It seemed like a dream that I, your youngest
daughter, should be so blessed as to have the
privilege of seeing all these same places. We
arrived at the German Hotel, called the Temple
House, about six o'clock Tuesday morning, July
24th; every one around us was German, but of
course they could all speak a little English.
	The house faced the north, and we had a nice,
large, quiet room up stairs with a porch in front,
and from it we could see where the old Temple
used to stand; we were exactly one block east of
it across the street. We had breakfast and be-
fore we went up to our room again, went up to
see what was left of the Temple, but where it
once stood is a nice, new, frame house, and the
store on the south west corner of the block is
built entirely of the Temple rock; it is as 
smooth and white as ever, and they say it does

[Column 2]
not wear away one particle. This store is used
for a drug store and post office, and is very
large, 100 ft. by 30. Ever so many foundations
and houses around there seemed to be made of 
this same rock, and several here have carriage
steps made of it, how we envied them; from
there we went one block east, and saw a very
little square house, built of the same rock, we
went in among the trees, it was a perfect grove,
and found that this was the city park, and the
little house was used as a sort of store house.
A man who was working in the park told us
that Mrs. Clark, who lived on the hill, could tell
us who had lived in all the old houses, but he
knew nothing, so we left him and started for
Mrs. Clark's; we went in several old houses to
inquire the way there.  * * The houses
are almost all occupied by Dutch people; we at
last found Mrs. Clark and her two widowed
daughters; they were very pleasant, and so kind
to us. We were a long time deciding whether
to go in or not, but we thought if we were not
courageous enough for that we would not find
out anything so (we braced up) so to speak, and
went in, and as I have already said, they were
very kind, and insisted on our stopping to dinner;
she went out with us and showed us where the
rest of the Temple rock was that had been
bought by Mr. Ritter, a very rich old man; one
of the daughters went over with us, and we saw
all there was to see, hunted round for a piece
with carving on, but only found one of those
immense heads, and it was perfect; the stone
was scattered over the whole block, and he has
sold a great deal; it hardly seemed possible there
could have been so much in the building. One
large piece with carving on, he sold to a man
from Chicago for $300, and he would not sell
that head for less; he gave us some small speci-
mens. We had dinner, and then, accompanied
by the two girls, walked down through the
beautiful fields, and passed the hedges (I never
saw anything so pretty as the hedges) to hunt
up some places, first we called on a Mrs. Ravel,
not knowing what she was. They told us she
knew so much, and she did, but much it was,
too many lies, a perfect hornet's nest, and we got
out as soon as possible; from there we came first
to Uncle Joseph Young's house, and it is a 
beautiful place! The largest evergreens I ever
saw, a fountain and a great many flowers; the
house, they said, was almost the same; two
story brick, with frame top, with little windows
and green shutters. From there we saw Brig-
ham Young's old house, story and a half brick—
west wing looks old, but there are some people
living there. We next went to the most interest-
ing place, the old Nauvoo Mansion. Mrs. Hudson
lives there. She took us through the house.
We first went in the parlor, with its large,
black mantle-piece; next the long dining-room,
where they told us they brought Joseph after he
was killed. * * *
*	It was full of old things, some china,
and everything was old all over. * * *
From there went to the kitchen where the old
well was, and had a drink out of the same old
well. They told us there had been no change
made in any part of the house. The water was
refreshing. * * We saw at the right
hand side of the kitchen the room that Mother
Smith had occupied; everything looked very old
and worn out. She took us up stairs into the
Prophet Joseph's room and into the closet where,
it is said, he used to hide, but she could not open
the secret door that leads up on the roof; she
told us of it, and said her son knew how to do it,
but we saw no door; we went in all the rooms,
and saw the same old stairs. Oh! how much we
thought of you, and wished you with us, but we
were afraid it would be too much for you. From
there we went to the Riverside Mansion, once
the "Nauvoo House," that was just started


[Column 1]
when you left. Some of it has been taken
down, and the main building is finished, or part-
ly so; Bydeman, once Emma Smith's husband,
and his wife live in it; its walls made me think 
of the Council House walls, they were so thick;
the first story is built of white stone just like the
Temple, and the walls of the first floor of one of
the wings of the same stone is still standing, it
alone is 123 ft. long, so you can imagine how
long they intended it to be. The other stories
are of brick, and all speak of how remarkable,
it is, that they should have stood so long. The
staircase is of walnut. The river is just a few
steps from the west door; the oak trees are still
standing; trumpet vines and the flowers have
climbed to the top, and looks beautiful. We 
bought a picture of Joseph Smith, and saw pic-
tures of the whole family. In their parlor was
the old secretary owned by Hyrum Smith, and
it is elegant, but very old fashioned; an old
checker table that Joseph owned, also a bureau
that was very handsome, and an old center
table elegantly carved. We then went across 
the street to Joseph's old home and drank out of
that old well too, and saw the grave-yard. The
house is just the same old house. *
*		We saw where they said he and his
brother lay; the grave is between two locust
trees; we also saw the little fruit frame
that stood over the grave for years; next we 
saw his old house, it was well preserved, not
used for anything. From there we went to
Aaron Johnson Esq's. old house. The old print-
ing office was moved away up the river, but we
saw the house, and went all through it. they
took the old fire-place away last winter, but the
rest is much the same; the sweetest young
married woman lived there; she was so kind,
and felt so sorry for us because we cried. She
had a sweet little baby about as large as Belle's,
with blue eyes. I cannot express my feelings
here, I was completely broken down, and could
think of nothing but you, my own sweet mother,
and of your sorrow. Next we went to H. C.
Kimball's, and it is a grand looking house; right
in the center of the old house is a white rock
about two yards in length with H. C. K, 1845, 
engraved upon it. There are some Germans liv-
ing in the house; they were very kind to us and 
took us all through the house; we went in the
large room * *	and the two bedrooms;
up stairs in all the rooms, and into the third
story, and up on to the observatory; there is the
most beautiful view from there I ever saw. I
thought of Aunt Helen, and I don't blame her
for speaking so often of her home, for it is beau-
tiful. I brought her a piece of a large evergreen.
They have built a wing on and the whole
place looks lovely; there is also a large block of
redstone on the east side of the house with the
same ingraving on. Next we went to where
Belle's father, Bishop Whitney, lived; the house
is all gone, and the prettiest place in Nauvoo
stands on the ground where his home stood; the
old back steps were there still. Then we went
to what used to be the old graveyard; some of 
the old graves are still left in the people's lots,
and others are moved to the new cemetery.
From there we went back to the hotel. Mr
Smith, the old man that took us around, told us
that all Joseph's prophecies had come true but
one, and that was about the "Mormons" coming
back. He said Joseph said it should become a
vineyard, and the Mormons should drink the
wine, and at that time there were no grapevines
there. Now it is indeed a beautiful vineyard;
miles and miles of grapevines and nothing else,
and we had some of the wine in St. Louis. He
also said it should be deserted, and should be as
a dead city; and oh, that is true! There is some-
thing about the death-like stillness that you
cannot express. I forgot to tell you that we went 

[Column 2]
out to Joseph Smith's farm and drank out of 
the very old well. Oh, such a day, I never ex-
pect to see anything like it again; such feelings,
ma; they are beyond all description. Every step
I took I wondered if you had ever been there,
and oh, how I did long to speak to you, and ask
you questions! It seemed as if you must be
there, and I would turn around to look. I never
had such a strange feeling. I could not find
father's house, but saw the Masonic Hall, where
they told me he once had his office, during some
trial, but there was an old gentleman, a Mr.
Morrell, that called on me last night, and was
to call this morning, that could have told me
everything, but we came away so early that I
could not see him again. We had to come on
this steamer for there was no telling when
there would be another, and we feel anxious to
get on our way esst. I should love to see you
all. There is never one moment that you are
not in our thoughts. I wanted so much to say
my letter was from Nauvoo, but it was so near,
just as we left, that I guess I might say so. * *
I do not forget any of you in my prayers, but
constantly pray for the health and safety of you
all. Give our love to all the folks and to all the
children. I shall try and write up my first
steam-boat ride for you. We are going from St.
Louis to Chicago, and then I expect to go direct
to Massachusetts. Good night, dear heart.
	Lovingly,
	LOUIS WELLS.


38	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


BELLE HARRIS AND BABY.

DEAR EDITOR:
	I am brim full of contempt and disgust at
the actions and rulings of the grand jury,
prosecuting attorney and judges, the whole heap
of them, Senator Edmunds included; and if
you can find or imagine any words which can
more fully express my contempt consider them
said. It is a disgrace to the whole nation the
way they are abusing that noble woman, Belle
Harris and her baby. Never glory in being an
American citizen again. I was born in Englandl
so I wont have to share the odium that is fast
making the United States a biss and a bye word
amongst the Monarchial Governments of the
world. Don't talk about the Spanish Inquisition
or the Star Chamber after this abuse of an inno-
cent woman. If the United States are not in-
augurating a religious persecution against the
Latter-day Saints I am mistaken; (I know I am
not) they have taken the right of franchise for
doing that which was not an offence at the
time of commital; they drag women and babes
from their homes and put them in prison with-
out trial of any kind, because they refuse to
answer impudent questions; granting, for the
sake of argument, that she is a plural wife and
has children in the marriage relation, which I
don't know anything about never having seen
the lady, what right have they to make her
criminate herself; is this just? They would for-
bid such a question to a murderer or a bank rob-
ber, but she, poor thing, is a Mormon, that
makes all the difference. There is something
said in the Declaration of Independence, (a
noble instrument), about worshiping God ac-
cording to the dictates of our own conscience,
and "taxation without representation." Oh!
but that you don't mean you Mormons, Oh no! "We
the Federal officials, have power under the Ed-
munds Law to persecute you until you bend
your consciences to our august will. We, the
Federal officials, under the Edmunds Law, will
blot out of your souls every religious sentiment
that is obnoxious to the minority who dwell in
Utah; we mean to pop all women into the Peni-
tentiary who have children in the marriage rela-
tion that we don't approve of; we will confiscate


all your property that we desire, with or without
law; we will degrade your children all we can;
we will heap insult on insult upon you until
you revolt, then we will call on the military to
exterminate you; mobs have killed your prophets,
your men, women and children before, and may
do so again. The American Nation is a great
nation, but you are only a handful of poor de-
luded fools; we are going to get rid of you now;
you have made this country so that we can live
in it, and we intend to have it for us and the
minority to dwell in."
	Yes, you have done these things, and more;
you have insulted and imprisoned our best men,
women and children, and will continue to do so
until the Lord says, enough. Then woe, woe,
unto you, for the plagues, sorrows and desolation
that will fall on you and follow your footsteps
wherever you may go; you shall see your dear-
est hopes blasted and come to naught, and the
cup of sorrow you are pressing to the lips of the
Latter-day Saints you shall drain to the dregs,
for it is your wages; the measure you give you
shall receive.					MARY.
	Grantsville, July 27th, 1883.


IN MEMORIAM.

	By the death of Bishop L. E. Harrington a gloom has
been cast over our little city. Having been Bishop and
President since the organization of American Fork as a
branch of the Church, he has endeared himself to the
hearts and affections of the people to that extent that
they cannot fail to realize their loss keenly; neverthe-
less we acknowledge the hand of the Lord in our be-
reavement, and feel to say, "Thy will be done."
	Leonard E. Harrington was born January 27th, 1815,
at New Lisbon, Oswego Co., New York. Embraced the
Gospel in 1842, and gathered with the Saints at Nau-
voo; shared in the persecutions of the Saints, and ar-
rived in Salt Lake City in September, 1847, having
crossed the plains in the first company of families that
came. In 1850 he became one of the first settlers of
American Fork, and has never ceased to labor for the
interest of his ward as Bishop, counselor, father and
friend until his demise, which occurred June 21st, 1883.
The funeral was the largest one ever witnessed in this,
place.
	At a special meeting of the Relief Society of Ameri-
can Fork the following resolutions were unanimously
adopted:
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father, in his infinite wis-
dom, has seen fit to call from our midst our beloved
friend and brother, Bishop Leonard E. Harrington, and,
	Whereas, We miss his kind and fatherly counsels,
realize that in him we have lost a firm friend, a man of
God, and one who was loyal to the cause of his religion,
and that of his country. A true friend of woman, who
did not hesitate, in his unflinching integrity, to plead
her cause in the Legislature of the Territory, in Conven-
tion and in every place and at all times, whenever op-
portunity presented itself, Therefore, be it resolved,
	That we, the Relief Society of American Fork, do
deeply deplore the loss of our beloved Bishop, Leonard
E. Harrington, and that we truly sympathize with the
bereaved family in their great affliction, and pray our
Heavenly Father to console them in their great be-
reavement, and be unto them an ever present help in
every time of need.
				MARY FINDLEY, President,
				EMMA FEATHERSTONE, Secretary.

	On Tuesday, June 12th, Mrs. Janet Gibson died sud-
denly at Bishop Sharp's, in the home of her daughter
Mrs. Annie G. Sharp. Deceased was the widow of
Elder Wm. Gibson, who labored for many years as a
missionary in the old country and also in America.
Deceased was born in Johnston, Renfrewshire Co., Scot-
land, October, 1813, her maiden name was Nichol.
	She was married to Wm. Gibson December 6th, 1881, in
Paisley. She was baptized into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints at Paisley, November 24th
1840, by Elder Francis Sprowl. During the time Bro. and
Sister Gibson remained in Edinburgh afrer they received
the Gospel, Brother Gibson was almost constantly en-
gaged in promoting the spread of the principles of
truth, and temporal affairs were a secondary considera-
tion. Sister Gibson labored faithfully in domestic af-
fairs, and was also zealous in spiritual things, always


advocating the principles of the Church. Their house
was always open to the Elders and to the local Saints
as a place of meeting and a home of hospitality.
Indeed they were generous to a fault, and willing to
deprive themselves that they might feed and clothe
those who were proclaiming the plan of salvation.
	In January, 1851, Bro. and Sister Gibson left Scot-
land for America on board the ship George W. Bourne.
Their family then consisted of two sons and two daugh-
ters, David, Annie, Jeanette and William. They were
ten weeks making the voyage across the Atlantic. Bro.
Gibson had charge of the company of Saints who came
across at that time. They went to St. Louis first and
remained there about two years, and Bro. Gibson pre-
sided over that branch a part of the time. Sister Gib-
son was like a mother to the younger Saints in that
branch of the Church. In May, 1851, while living in
St. Louis Sister Gibson had another daughter born, and
she named her Catharine. In May, 1853, the family left
St. Louis to gather with the Saints in the Valley. At
Loup Fork, a point not far from the Missouri River, the
little girl born in St. Louis died, and of course she had
to be buried by the way-side, which to a tender mother
such as Sister Gibson, was a very severe ordeal.
	The family arrived in the valley, and located in
Salt Lake City. Here some time subsequent,
Brother Gibson entered upon the practice of plural
marriage, and Sister Gibson went hand and hand with
her husband sustaining him and acting the part of a
loyal wife and a mother to the younger wives. In
no other way could Sister Gibson have so faithfully
proved her devotion to the principle as in the noblil-
ty with which she received to her home and heart the
wives taken in the patriarchal order of marriage. In
this she displayed that true heroism that elevates the
women of this Church and places them on a more
exalted platform than the women of the world. In
1867 Sister Gibson went with her husband on the Mud-
dy mission, where she endured much hardship and pri-
vation. At one time they had their house and every-
thing in it burned. In 1871 Bro. Gibson went on a mis-
sion to Philadelphia, while there he had a stroke of
paralysis and Sister Gibson went herself to Philadelphia
to bring him home. Her affection for her husband was
indeed unselfish. For the three years following she de-
voted herself to him night and day as if he had been a
child, for he required the same care and attention. In
1881 she went to St. George to do some work in the
Temple, and while there she attended to the ordinances
for the dead of her ancestry and that of her husband,
which was a great satisfaction and comfort to her.
	Sister Gibson was an exemplary Latter-day Saint,
always regular in attendance at meetings and greatly
interested in the Relief Societies and the Y. L. M. I. A.,
taking part in the exercises, ready and willing to testi-
fy to the truth at all times when called upon. She was a
fire-side teacher. Shs loved to speak of the principles
of the Gospel and explain them to the young or to
those in doubt. She was beloved by the young people
of her acquaintance, for she possessed that adaptability
that won their affections,
	She was, as it was remarked by one of the brethren
who spoke at her funeral, amiable in the highest de-
gree, patient, long suffering and kind, tender, forgiv-
ing and benevolent. Although she was a very unassum-
ing person, she was a woman who had read a great deal
and was intellectual in character. She was possessed
of true Christian charity, which caused her to over-
look weaknesses and encourage the weak and err-
ing in the path of right. Her whole soul was
in the Latter-day work, and she departed full of
zeal, having been ever faithful in all things in
fulfilling duties and responsibilities, even under the 
most trying and peculiar circumstances. She leaves only
one daughter, Mrs. Annie G. Sharp, and seven grand-
children to mourn her loss. "Blessed are the dead who
die in the Lord, yea, from henceforth they rest from their
labors and their works do follow them." E. B. W.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 39


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY 
REPORTS.
RICHMOND.

DEAR EDITOR:
*		*		*		*		*		*
	On June 4th we held our Annual Meeting; we
convened in our new Relief Society Meeting
House, which was  also dedicated at the same
time. Many of the brethren met with us on

[Column 2]
﻿this occasion. Bishop M. M. Merrill offered
the dedicatory prayer, which seemed to include
every blessing asked that could be desired to
be poured out upon not only those who had
been most energetic in its building and
rendered aid, but all the surroundings
thereof.
	The brethren praised our efforts and bid us
be united, thanked us for our aid in helping
the poor and visiting the sick, and for every
good word and work, that we should and had
performed. The financial report was read and
found to be satisfactory; inasmuch as we
have a building and appurtanances thereto,
worth $1,300, and our indebtedness on the
same something over $200, which we are now
trying to liquidate as fast as possible; besides
striving to fulfil our duty as helps to the needy.
President Merrill with her counselors, ever
desires the welfare of our valuable WOMAN'S
EXPONENT. Please accept our kind regards. 
		We remain, yours in the Gospel,
				A. J. MERRILL, President,
				B. BROWER, Secretary.
	July 22nd, 1883.

WASHAKIE.

	Minutes of the organization of the Primary
Association by E. R. S. Smith:
	"We thank Thee O God for a Prophet" was
sung by the children, after which Sister Snow
offered up prayer. The children sang, "In
our Lovely Deseret." Sister Fulena H. Zun-
dell was chosen President and unanimously sus-
tained; Eliza Ward and Elmira Pall, as Coun-
selors, were unanimously sustained; Phoebe
Zundell, as Secretary, was also unanimously
sustained; Sister Haddon T. Ward was sus-
tained as Treasurer of the Primary Associa-
tion. Number of names enrolled, 23.
	Sister Zundell gave out notice of the next
meeting, to be held on Wednesday, at four
o'clock.
	The congregation sang "O my Father," and
the benediction was pronounced by Elder Al-
phonso H. Snow.				P. ZUNDELL,
								Secretary.

JUAB PRIMARY.

	A report of the Conferenoe of the Primary
Association of Juab Stake of Zion. The
Primary Conference of Juab Co. held their
Seventeenth Quarterly Conference on Satur-
day a.m., June 24th, in the meeting house. The
meeting was called to order by Stake Presi-
dent, Hannah Grover. Singing. Prayer by
President Paxman.  Singing, "Great is the
Lord." Then the legal transactions were gone
through with satisfactorily.
	The different Associations composing the
conference were represented by their respective
presidents. Each showed  that the generality
of the young people are alive to their religious
duties, and are endeavoring to serve God ac-
cording to the best knowledge they possess.
	A portion of the remaining time was occu-
pied by some of the members of the Primary
in an interesting and pleasant manner, with
songs, recitations, etc. After the conclusion
of the exercises some of the elder people who
were present addressed those gathered. Each
spoke of the noticeable improvement of the
children belonging to the Primary Associa-
tions. In the conclusion of their remarks the
speakers exhorted them to pay attention to the
instructions and to treasure up the knowledge
given them by their able presidents, as the
knowledge thus gained would be of great use
to them in after years. 
	After spending a pleasant time the meeting
was closed by the choir singing an anthem.
Bishop Warner offered the benediction.
				L. ADDIE SCHOFIELD,
						Stake Secretary.


[Column 1]
THE 24TH OF JULY, 1883,

[AND CONSEQUENT REFLECTIONS.]

BY HANNAH T- KING

	July 24th, 1847, the pioneers entered upon
the site where now stands the beautiful
City of Salt Lake, named by the great histor-
ian, Burton, "The City of the Saints." But
it is July 24th, 1883, that I wish to make pal-
pable in a few thoughts that floated through my
mind while witnessing the celebration of that
day in the great Tabernacle, a day never to be
forgotten by young or old while memory holds
her seat; I wish I could do ample justice to the
subject, but I feel that I can but express
a moiety of all that passed through my mind
on that day while sitting as a unit among
many thousands that had congregated there-
in to take part in—or witness the performance.
It was a day especially for the exhibition of
the children, and I can say with truth they
formed a juvenile crowd that any nation
might be proud of--healthy, happy and most
intelligent; youth itself is beauty, therefore, of
course, it largely preponderated. 1,100 child-
ren varying from six to twelve must be ex-
ceedingly well trained to preserve order
throughout, but such was the case to a marvel-
ous degree; their musical education has been
under the training of Brother Evan Stephens,
and they demonstrated that it had been both
careful and laborious, he has indeed performed
a labor of love; and he must love labor to have
been enabled to accomplish so satisfactory a
denouement as we were charmed to witness on
the 24th; the children not only performed the
mechanical part well, but they evidently felt
the music of the soul throughout. I saw
many little feet beating exact time, as they
had been taught to do, and their flags (for each
child held a small star spangled banner)
seemed devoted to the same office; every piece
was admirably executed, and must have
thrilled the soul of the Master, who of course
held the baton. Brother Evan Stephens has
shown himself a public benefactor to the
children of the Latter-day Saints; the cultiva-
tion of music, like all the fine arts, is a refin-
ing, elevating science; a soul devoted to music,
and living in the cultivation of it, must live
and breathe an atmosphere of purity and ele-
vation of soul that no language could portray.
Brother Stephens has introduced our children
into this heavenly studio; he has given them a
taste of the grand and the beautiful, has
called out the faculty that lay dormant within
them—and which I trust will never be al-
lowed to die or even fade from out their souls;
for music cheers and soothes those who love it
is nothing else can; there is a heavenliness
about it that speaks to our spirit of the Great
Creator!—I watched those children closely,
and I felt I could distinguish in them, young
as they were, an appreciation of their kind
and indefatigable music-master, and I trust
they will never forget him, but remember him
in days to come as one who struck "the Harp
of a thousand strings," that the beneficent
Creator has placed in every human heart in a
greater or lesser degree; remember that he
awakened this in their young hearts, never I
trust to sleep again; he has strung the chords
to a harmonious tension, and through all com-
ing life its æolian strains will never cease to vi-
brate, but be as a lamp burning eternally on
their heart and brain, preserving them from
everything that is low and grovelling. God
bless and reward Brother Evan Stephens, and
may his life be preserved to carry out his mis-
sion among the Latter-day Saints.
	Then came the representatives of nations in
costume, and this must have been a work of la-
bor—some of the dresses were most elaborate
and costly; Elizabeth and Leicester, Napoleon


[Column 1]
and Josephine, the Goddess of Liberty and
Washington, and all were arranged with care
and exactness. The National Anthems of the
most prominent countries were rendered ap-
propriately, and had a thrilling effect upon
that vast multitude, for it was as a voice of
childhood and youth, which music so thrilling-
ly awakens. I thought I had no nation-
ality left in me, but when "Rule Britania"
struck up its soul-thrilling tones there came a
choking feeling in my throat, that had not
tears flown out of my eyes I might—had I
known how—gone off into a faint or some-
thing as foolish, but when the "Star Spangled
Banner" was played I felt the same sensation,
which reconciles me to myself, for I love my
adopted country with a true and loyal devo-
tion, and have never desired to leave her for
a moment, but grateful hearts should remem-
ber old friends and associations. Miss Cole-
brook sang the "Star Spangled Banner" "with
her soul in her glance." Miss Agnes Olsen
was as she always is, sweet, modest and unpre-
tending; her voice speaks for itself. Miss
Druce and Mrs. Swan Hull are ever charm-
ing, and our dear old charmer, Mrs. Sarah
Olsen Langford, was so kind as to give us a
pleasing reminiscence—'tis vain to attempt to
enumerate, I have not room, but all did well;
and every arrangement was admirable, and
shewed mind and ability. I am not a judge
of the bagpipes, but if "the concord of sweet
sounds" can be infused into it Brother Dunbar
is the one to do it, for he has a soul for music,
and has rejoiced our hearts in Lang Syne,
when President Young would rise up in the
Tabernacle and call out, "Brother Dunbar,
come to the stand and give us "Oh Zion."
And the whole assembly would catch the in-
spiration, so powerful is the charm of music
that speaks volumes in a few moments to
every heart, speaking in their own tongue.
Music is certainly one of the voices of God!
Who does not know it? Could Bro. Dunbar
have given us the volume that opened before
him as he played his bagpipes he would have
become a second Orpheus, but at present our
best thouhts will not live, even upon our own
lyre.
	Brother Goddard, the indefatigable
Brother Goddard was as he always is, untir-
ing in helping on every good cause, especial-
ly that of the children, Sunday Schools, et
cetera. Long may he live to fill his place in
his own admirable way.
	As I sat among the assembled thousands on
that morning I felt my surroundings were a
glimpse of the grand and fondly anticipated
Future, and for a few moments I gave my
imagination full scope and believed an Ideal
of the Hereafter was before and around me!
And as Brother Cannon made his few but
touching remarks a wide field of thought
opened before me. He described the scene 36
years ago when two beings entered upon the
site where now stands our beantiful Metropolis!
Then a carpet of sage brush covered the earth,
and the ever glorious firmament canopied the
scene. I imagined their thoughts and feelings!
I saw them spring from their horses and throw
themselves upon their knees, I could hardly
fancy they were capable of words, but the at-
titude and the adoring eyes needed no words,
they were in themselves a mighty thanksgiv-
ing. They had escaped from taunting, mur-
derous mobs, and now stood free, as they had
never been before; no power around them but
that of God and angels! Think of it! realize
as I did their situation at that moment! It
was the reward of a life! it was a grand, a
sublime moment, and silence spoke trumpet-
tongued! There has been many moments of
like description witnessed by this people with-
in the last forty years; they know in whom
they trust; they know for themselves that God
is with them—and with the wise and good es-

[Column 2]
pecially, and with the leaders most especially
Oh, may we all live to be worthy of such
holy, snch especial guardianship, such especial
revelations! May July 24th, 1883, be a start-
ing point for increased vigilance, for increased
watchfulness of SELF, that we may have power
to call down an increasing approval, and that
the work of the last days may roll with in-
creasing rapidity, that the winding up scene
may come.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


The National Educational Assembly, which
is to meet at Ocean Grove, N. J., in August,
has some live questions before it: “National
Aid to Common Schools,” “The Negro in
America,” “The Mormon Question,” and the
“Indian Question."—Ex.


[Column 1]
For Sale at this Office.

BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.

PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,		-	25c. per copy.
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,		40c.	"
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,		-		$1.00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco,		1.50	"

	MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
Office and residence, 11th Ward, 7 blocks east
of the Deseret National Bank, and a half
block north, west side of the street.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.

KNITTING FACTORY,
On 1st W. St., Bct. 2d and 3d North, Next Door South of W. H. Hooper's.
Men's Socks, Ladies' and Childrens' Stockings, Infants
Knitted Shirts and Shoes, Ladies' and Childrens's Hoods,
etc. Family Knitting done on Reasonable Terms.
CAROLINE C. RALEIGH.
19TH WARD, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

SCHOOL IN MIDWIFERY.

DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT
COMMENCES a new class in her office over Godbe &
Pitts' Drug Store October 8th, at 1 o'clock p.m.
This school was established in 1878. The Term of five
months, three lectures per week, is a practical course
for those who desire to enter at once into this work. It
is advised that those whose circumstances will admit,
attend a second course, for the subject is so comprehen-
sive that a repetition of the lectures is very advan-
tageous, especially to those of limited education.
	Other branches of medicine are taught only as they
bear especially upon this subject. More than that in so
limited a course would be too superficial. Manikin,
charts and instruments are used in teaching.
Tuition..................................................$30.00
Books...................................................$13.00
N. B.—Orders for books must be sent in early so as to
get them from the east in time.

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.
☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

ELLEN B. FURGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office and Residence on 2d South between 3d
and 4d East Streets.

Special Study has been given to SURGERY, DISEASES
OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS.
☞ Can be Called by Telephone Day or Night.

[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
☞ We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
LACES, RUGHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLAS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

[Image of store]
HENRY DINWOODEY.

FURNITURE,
WALL PAPER,
CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUINS
AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY.

F Auerbach & Bro.
A full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods,
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
☞ CALL AND EXAMINE. ☜


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 12.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15, 1883.	No. 6.


ALLIES RESOLVE

As Allie, wrapped in thought, survey'd
	Life's scenes as time revolv'd,
And true results in balance weigh'd,
	She nobly thus resolv'd

"I'll turn my thoughts to usefulness—
	With skill my hands I'll train—
I'll treasure knowledge that will bless,
	And wisdom strive to gain.

"I will not be a silly ape,
	That fashion's pow'r can charm,
And change into a hideous shape
	My nat'ral; lovely form

"I will not furnish ridicule—
	A theme at my expense,
By pandering to folly's tool,
	The world's extravagance.

"I will not condescend to be
	An advertising scroll,
A walking sign of mill'nery,
	A glaring sidewalk stroll.

"Their fulsome praise I will despise
	Who flatter gaudy show—
I'll seek to merit what the wise
	Sincerely may bestow.

"I'll mingle elegance and taste
	With sweet simplicity,
And will not give my time to waste
	On vain frivolity.

"I'll be a woman—one of worth,
	Whose setting sun shall tell
That Allie's mission on the earth
	"Has been accomplished well."
									E. R. S. S.


FRAGMENTS

OF EPISTOLARY CORRESPONDENCE.

	Dear Lady, Shall I not say dear Sister? I
felt from the first visit with you that you were
a sister spirit, and every succeeding interview
endorsed my first impression; it seemed hard
that you were forced to go away, your health
too improved so much while here. I am sorry
to hear you are again declining in health.
My dear, you will have to return here, for
here you were well; the climate is evidently
congenial to your system, as it is generally to
new comers; and I have remarked that the
sickly are soon restored to health; there is a
freshness and a purity in this climate that is
remarkable; I myself have experienced its
beneficial effects; my nervous system, which in
early life was fearfully sensitive, became in
this climate quiet and strong; and you know
how rapidly your health improved while here.
I feel the Lord desires you to be with His
people, He acknowledges you as one of His
fold; can you not—do you not realize the truth
of my words? I feel that the world, with all
its greatness and granduer, has not charms
enough to bind a heart and brain like yours.
	The grand, the sublime and the beautiful,
with all their varied appendages, are in store
for the Saints of God of all ages, but they
have to graduate for them in the High School
of the Lord before they can attain them, or
even have the faculty to rightly appreciate
them.
	Religion is an individual affair; it is between
each one land their God, and Him alone!
No human being, no human power, whether it
be as king, potentate or president—no Parlia-
ment or Congress has the right or the power to


attempt to stand between a human being and
his God! Freedom of thought, freedom of
judgment, freedom of action in the matter of
religion is granted to all the race whom God
made in His own image, and endowed with
His own attributes, their agency is chartered
unto them to choose who shall be their God,
and in what way they shall worship Him and
acknowledge his laws and mandates, and whom
they will serve, follow and obey; He endowed
them with God-like faculties, with reason,
judgment, understanding, veneration, adora-
tion and devotion; with a spirit that is bound
to worship, yet the human being bends in
worship as naturally as the willow to the
stream, it is the umbilical cord that binds it to
its Divine Parent.
	The subject has carried me away, and I for-
got that I was writing a letter. Will you
feel I intrude? if so, pardon me, for my inter-
est in you is great and imperative for your
spiritual welfare, therefore my conscience does
not condemn me. Accept the best wishes one
human being can offer to another.
			Thy friend ever,
					HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City.


[Column 1]
ADDSESSED TO Y. L. M. I. A.

AMERICAN FORK.

	Brethren and sisters, friends and members
of the Improvement Association, being called
upon to deliver the opening address, I deem it
my duty as well as a privilege to respond to
the call, trusting I may have the Spirit of God
to dictate me in the course of my remarks. It
is now eight years since the Associations were
organized, in which time there has been vari-
ous improvements. How much we have made
is before you to judge. What improvement
has been made is not entirely due to the efforts
of the young people, but to the efforts of our
kind and amiable President, who has worked
with untiring industry for our advancement
and for the good of the youth of Zion. In
my heart I feel to say God bless her, and may
all her efforts towards improvement be
crowned with success. The Improvement As-
sociation is a proper channel where good ad-
vice may be imparted unto the rising genera-
tion of this community, if we adhere to the
good counsel given. Some say they see no
particular good resulting from these Associa-
tions, such persons are found only among those
who care nothing for religion, and they have
no higher aim in life than the frivolities of
this world. How thankful would our parents
have been had they the privileges when they
were young that we enjoy! Young friends, we
have a great many advantages that our parents
did not possess.
	Are we thankful for the many blessings bes-
towed upon us, do we all realize our positions
as members of the Church and Kingdom of
God; are we fully alive to the necessity of pre-
paring ourselves for future usefulness? In the
revelations of the Lord given to us in the last
days, He says, "let the solemnities of eternity
rest on your minds;" the things of time are
small compared with those of eternity; is there
not enough in the prophecies and promises
concerning the things to fill our minds with a
determination to let the perishable things of
this world be only a secondary consideration?

[Column 2]
	The one main thing that we as young men
and young ladies in Israel lack is a proper ap-
preciation of the duties that devolve upon us;
if we knew it was at the risk of our lives to
get drunk and swear, would we do so, if we
were in the presence of a great earthly king
whom we knew would take our lives if we
committed such offences, would we gratify a
false taste or whim, throw away our lives? no,
indeed; but according to that which we all as
Latter-day Saints believe in, many of us break
the laws of that King who is able to take not
only our lives and end our earthly existence,
but he has all power over our souls and con-
trols our destinies through all eternity.
	If we knew and realized that by a few
years of hard study we could attain to all the
luxuries and honors this world affords, would
it not be an incentive that would cause most of
us to strive for it; but the Lord our Father has
promised us such blessings as are not to be
compared with any of the perishable things of
this life. For instead of the weakly, fading
tabernacle, ever subject to disease and death,
we are promised a glorious, immortal body, ca-
pable of enduring through all eternity, so also
with all things connected with our existence in
the eternal worlds, for the faithful are prom-
ised that instead of crumbling to decay as is
the fate of all things connected with this mor-
tal sphere of action, their glory and blessings
may continue and increase through all com-
ing time, and grow brighter through the lapse
of years; there are also great things awaiting
us pertaining to this life, for when the king-
doms of this world shall become the kingdoms
of our God and His Son Jesus Christ, the
children of to-day who have been reared in
the fear and admonition of the Lord, who have
rightly appreciated their privileges, and have
spent their lives in acquiring useful knowledge,
will have ample room to use all the talents
they possess. Let us be humble and prayerful,
as prayer is essential to salvation; prayer
serves to keep open the channel of communi-
cation between us and the heavens. Through
prayer the darkness that had hovered over the
earth for ages burst, and the light of everlast-
ing truth shone for it. Let us all endeavor to
be energetic and upright, and do all we can
for the further advancement of the work in
which we are engaged; let us be ready to aid
the poor and aged, for in so doing we will cre-
ate happiness; true happiness is not gained by
selfishness, but by making others happy. The
more we try to do this the more happiness we
ourselves will enjoy.
	May God give us His Spirit that we may
seek nnto him for wisdom and understanding.
And may the love of God be our guiding star
in all our Associations, is my prayer.
						ANNIE CHEPNIAN.


The lowest ebb is the turn of the tide
—Longfellow.

	Life is made up, not of great sacrifices or
duties, but of little things; in which smiles and
kindnesses and small obligations, given habitu-
ally, are what win and preserve the heart, and
secure comfort.—Sir H. Davy.

	Men seldom die of hard work; activity is
God's medicine. The highest genius is willing-
ness and ability to do hard work. Any other
conception of genius makes it doubtful, if not
a dangerous possession.—R. S. MacArthur.


42	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SCENES IN NAUVOO, AND INCIDENTS
FROM H. C. KIMBALL'S JOURNAL.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	I well remember the farce, and for interest-
ing particulars will refer to the "Life of Brig-
ham Young." He says, "There were my sons,
Joseph A. and Brigham jr., Brother H. C.
Kimball's boys and others who were looking
on, and all seemed at once to understand and
participate in the joke. They followed the
carriage to the Mansion House and gathered
around Brother Miller with tears in their eyes,
saying, father, or President Young, where are
you going? Brother Miller looked at them
kindly, but made no reply; and the Marshal
really thought that he had got "Brother Brig-
ham." Lawyer Edmonds, who was staying
at the Mansion House, appreciating the joke,
volunteered to Brother Miller to go to Carth-
age with him and see him safe through. When
they arrived within two or three miles of
Carthage, the Marshal, with his posse, stopped.
They arose in their carriages, buggies and
wagon, and, like a tribe of Indians going to
battle, or as if they were a pack of demons
yelling and shouting, exclaimed, "We've got
him, we've got him, we've got him!"
	"When they reached Carthage the Marshal
took the supposed Brigham into an upper
room of the hotel, and placed a guard over
him, at the same time telling those around
that they had got him. Brother Miller re-
mained in the room until they bade him come
to supper. While there parties came in one
after the other, and asked for Brigham, Bro.
Miller was pointed out to them. So it con-
tinued until an apostate Mormon, by the name
of Thatcher, who had lived in Nauvoo, came
in and sat down and asked the landlord where
Brigham was. "That is Mr. Young," said the
landlord, pointing across the table to Bro.
Miller. "Where? I can't see any one that
looks like Brigham," Thatcher replied. The
landlord told him it was that fleshy man, eat-
ing.
	"Oh, h——!" exclaimed Thatcher, "that's
not Brigham, that's William Miller, one of
my old neighbors."
	"Upon hearing this the landlord went, and
tapping the sheriff on the shoulder, took him
a few steps to one side, and said, "You have
made a mistake. That is not Brigham Young;
it is William Miller of nauvoo."
	"The Marshal, very much astonished, ex-
claimed, "Good heavens, and he passed for
Brigham!" He then took Bro. Miller into a
room, and turning to him, said, "What in
h—— is the reason you did not tell me your
name?" "You have not asked me my name,"
Bro. Miller replied. "Well, what is your
name?" said the sheriff, with another oath.
"My name is William Miller." "I thought
your name was Brigham Young. Do you say
this for a fact?" "Certainly I do," returned
Bro. Miller. "Then," said the marshal, "why
did you not tell me that before?" "I was un-
der no obligation to tell you," replied Miller.
	"The marshal, in a rage, walked out of the
room, followed by Bro. Miller, who walked off
in company with Lawyer Edmonds, Sheriff
Backenstos and others, who took him across
lots to a place of safety; and this is the real
birth of the story of "Bogus Brigham."
	They never believed for a moment that
Brigham or his brother Apostles were guilty
of counterfeiting. It was only an excuse got-
ten up for the want of a better one to drive the
"Mormons" to desperation, that they might
have an excuse for exterminating them; for
then they were looked upon as a dangerous foe
in a political point of view, the same as they
are to-day.
	Dec. 26th. "At about half past six p.m.,"
he writes, "Sheriff Backenstos came to the

[Column 2]
Temple—was admitted to the office room. * *
Had conference with President Young, H. C.
Kimball, Orson Hyde, P. P. Pratt, John Tay-
lor, Amasa Lyman and George A. Smith. He
gave an account of the occurrences at Car-
thage.	*	*	Said the United States
Deputy Marshal was in town with writs for
the Twelve and G. Miller.	*	*	*
	"Saturday, 27th.	*	*	*	None
of the Twelve present at the Temple except
Orson Pratt. At fifteen minutes past ten
o'clock the United States Deputy Marshal
from Springfield, by the name of Roberts,
came to the Temple in company with Almon
W. Babbit. He was freely admitted to every
part of the Temple to which he desired access.
He went into the tower, on the roof, and into
the attic story, passed through the various de-
partments into the east room where he intent-
ly examined the portraits and made inquiries
as to where they were severally, but obtained
no correct information. He was requested to
take off his boots in the preparation room,
which request he complied with. After re-
maining about a half an hour he departed.
About two o'clock he returned in company
with Sheriff Backenstos and a gentleman
whom the Marshal introduced to us as from
New Orleans. They visited the middle room
and the tower and departed in about a half an
hour. Doctor Bernhisel came in about one
o'clock—had borrowed the "New York Sun"
of December 9th, 1845, which contained a
letter said to have been written by Emma
Smith to the Editor. 	*	*	*
Elder Orson Pratt has been engaged in mak-
ing astronomical calculations from several ob-
servatories—he makes the latitude of Nauvoo
to be 40° 35' 48".	*	*	*
Elder Orson Hyde came in,	*	*	said that
the officers had been watching his house."
	"Sunday, December 28th. Meeting at half
past ten o'clock this day in the attic story of
the Temple.	*	*	A very large con-
gregation was present, some of the side rooms
were filled.	*	*	About two hundred
persons were present, clothed in priestly gar-
ments. President Young addressed the meet-
ing, it having been opened with prayer by P.
P. Pratt and singing the songs of Zion, "The
morning breaks, the shadows flee," and "Come
to me, etc." President Young desired them
to be wise and do honor to the cause they had
espoused, and bring no reproach upon the
character of Him who has given us of the
things of His kingdom liberally. "The keys
of the Priesthood are for the purpose of im-
pressing on the mind the order of the creation.
Adam's name was more ancient than he was.
It was the name of a man long before him
who enjoyed the Priesthood.	*	*	*
After his fall another name was given to
Adam.	*	*	The order and ordi-
nances prove the principles taught in the Bi-
ble. First, men should love their God su-
premely.	*	*	Liberty and happiness
will never shine upon men until they learn
these principles.	*	*	The love which
David and Jonathan had for each other was
the love of the Priesthood. God is a person-
age of tabernacle. The Son is a personage of
tabernacle. The Spirit, or Holy Ghost, is also
a personage, but not a personage of tabernacle,
but a personage of Spirit. God dwells in
eternal burnings—puts his hand through the
vail and writes on the wall. And any person
who goes through these ordinances, unless they
cleanse their hearts and sanctify themselves
and sanctify the Lord it will damn them.	*
We shall not be able to have another public
meeting here on account of the weight on the
floor—it has already caused the walls to crack,
prevents the doors from shutting and will in-
jure the roof. I see here 200 persons,	*	*
and the wood is to be supplied as follows—
1000 men, or as many as can be obtained, to

[Column 3]
go to the islands and cut wood, and send
teams to go and draw it to the Temple until
1000 cords have been obtained."
	"They sang the hymn, "Glorious things of
thee are spoken." Prayer by Amasa Lyman,
asking blessing on the bread. Passed around
by Charles C. Rich and George Miller. Bless-
ing on the wine asked by P. P. Pratt. While
the wine was passing around sang the hymn,
"Adam Ondi Ahman."
	"Elder Kimball next spoke—cautioned the
brethren and sisters against telling that the
Twelve were in the Temple. Alluded to the
stories in circulation that several persons had
been killed on their way through the ordi-
nances, etc., etc. After which a hymn was
sung, being led by Brother S. H. Goddard,
John Kay and William Cahoon, when they
united in prayer, Elder John Taylor being
mouth, and the congregation was dismissed by
Elder Orson Hyde. At five o'clock President
Young and H. C. Kimball, assisted by their
wives and Sister Whitney, washed and anoint-
ed for their health their three little children,
whose names are John Willard Young, Brig-
ham Willard Kimball and Mary Jane Whit-
ney."		*		*		*
	"Just at dark three of the dragoons sta-
tioned at Carthage came in with a man named
Noah Miller whom they wished to deliver up
to the proper officers. He was charged with
swindling several persons out of their proper-
ty. They brought a letter from Major War-
ren, the commanding officer, the tenor of which
was as above. This is on file among President
Young's papers, "President Young and his
wife and child, Elder H. C. Kimball and wife
and child, and several other persons remained
in the Temple over night."

To be Continued.


DRAPER PRIMARY.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:

	Yesterday, accompanied by Mrs. Louie Felt,
general President of the Primary Associations,
and Mrs. Ellen S. Clawson, Stake President,
I attended the Annual meeting of the Primary
Association of South Willow Creek, Draper,
Mrs. Smith and counselors presiding.
	In both sessions, forenoon and afternoon,
after the usual opening exercises, the time was
occupied with recitations by the children,
interspersed with short addresses by the Presi-
dent and lady visitors present. The recita-
tions were well selected and well rendered, and
all was conducted in such quiet, good order as
reflects much credit on the presiding Board.
	The influence felt was delightful, and truly
exhilarating—the interest never flagged. The
fixed attention of the children during all the
exercises was particularly pleasing, and very
remarkable. One strikingly interesting feature
of the day was, that quite a respectable num-
ber of young lads and lasses, boys and girls
nearly grown to manhood and womanhood,
members of the Association, who, for the sake
of the great benefits to be derived from these
educational opportunities, manifest a nobility
and superiority of character far above many
of their age, for they do not think it beneath
their dignity to be associated with little child-
ren. We had the proof of the benefits they
are securing to themselves before us. The
girls efficiently led in singing—one of the boys
dismissed the meeting in the forenoon, another
made the opening prayer in the afternoon, and
another, when asked by the president if he had
a recitation prepared, answered in the nega-
tive; he then arose and made a very nice ex-
tempore speech, which amply atoned for the
omission. These boys and girls are preparing
themselves for future usefulness and honor.
								E. R. S. S.
	Salt Lake City, Aug. 11th, 1883.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 48


LORD THOU KNOWEST!

There is a love that God may see,
	But must be hid from mortal eyes,
	Because it human law defies;
Because of earth it cannot be.

I speak of love—that glimpse of heaven,
	Because the heart is free as air,
	A sovereign organ, pure and fair,
That God himself to us has given.

Yes, many a heart such love has known,
	But hid it close from human view,
	And unto death to it was true,
Its last fond words, my own, my own!

The sorrow that must not be seen,
	When death that hidden treasure steals,
	And all that loneliness reveals,
And all that's left is what has been!

And what is lost to us alone,
	None knowing of the prize so held,
	The treasured "castle" struck and felled,
Yet none must hear one sigh or groan!

All gone from that poor stricken heary,
	The watchful eye—the ready hand,
	The woman's heart—It must expand
And mourn to see it all depart.

Wisdom, prudence, veneration too,
	all mingled in that humble friend,
	Whose sole appointment was to tend
His queen!—for such devotion love was due.

He served her husband, by reflection, he
	Shone into her heart—until
	He earned a niche that he himself should fill,
That by her gratitude unveiled should be.

Ye dark brow'd sophists! on your lip
	Your finger place, till you can tear
	The scales from off our eyes—beware,
You hold the balance with a righteous grip!

For queenship, who would sigh! to be
	Watched and judged, the inner life to scan,
	And all within the court of erring man!
Thou knowest Lord! we wait for thy decree.

Salt Lake City.				HANNAH T. KING.


[Column 1]
A VENERABLE WOMAN.

PRESENDIA LATHROP KIMBALL.

	It cannot be expected that coming here as
the Latter-day Saints did, without money and
only provided with the barest necessities to
eke out an existence, but there would be much
privation to contend against. None were
exempt. The families of Brigham Young and
Heber C. Kimball shared in these respects
equally with others. Sister Presendia lived in
a very poor home indeed and endured much
hardship in consequence. When her little
babe was quite small she had to put up an um-
brella over them in bed to protect them from
the thick, muddy water that came down
through the dirt roofs. Mothers who have lit-
tle delicate babes sitting in their comfortable
parlors or elaborately furnished nurseries, can
have little idea of the trials of the mothers in
those early days in the settlement of this val-
ley. Brother Edward Martin who had a much
more comfortable home than Sister Presendia,
and seeing how much she had endure wading
through the deep snow in the middle of win-
ter to feed and milk her cow, offered her a
helping hand, and she spent most of her time
at his house where she was made much more
comfortable. Under all these trials and diffi-
culties Sister Presendia was patient and
cheerful, thanking her Father in heaven that
He had permitted her to gather with his peo-
ple to the Rocky Mountains, and also that she
had been a mother under the new and ever-
lasting covenant of marriage. Her little babe
grew to be a most intelligent child. During
its infancy she devoted herself to the care and
development of this little one exclusively, ex-
cept household duties, always taking her with
her wherever she went.

[Column 2]
	"While residing in the old buildings of Heber
C. Kimball's, on City Creek, called the adobie
row, one Saturday I designed visiting my sis-
ter-in-law, Caroline Huntington, of the 16th
Ward, the same place where my present home
is situated. I dressed Presendia Celestia for
the visit and let Oliver, her brother, then 10
years old, take her over to my sister Zina's for
an hour or two, until I could finish doing up
my work and get ready to go; Sister Zina lived
with President Young's family, in what was
known for so many years as the log row. Oliver
took the child up in his arms and placed her
on his shoulder with her big doll in her arms.
As they passed out of the door she turned her
head back to me with such a pleasant smile,
it was such a tender good-bye, and seemed to
make an impression upon me at the time.
Oliver took her to the east end of the row, and
she called at every room and received admira-
tion from all the ladies until she reached the
dining room, where the family were seated at
breakfast, each one speaking to her so kindly
and admiring her loveliness. Brother Young
was also at the table, and kissed her last.
Oliver then started towards home with her,
Oscar Young and several of the other boys
with him. They crossed City Creek, and Oliver
sat her down to cut some sticks to make whistles
for the boys; it was but a moment, a fatal mo-
ment too, he turned around to look and she was
not to be found. Her little brother Oliver,
to whose care she had been intrusted, screamed
and cried out "a red dress." President Young's
family heard the confusion, they left the table,
and all began the search. That portion of the
stream that passed Brother Kimball's had just
been turned into the other, and disturbed and
roiled the water, so that the child could not be
seen. Elizabeth Culvert Chase jumped into
the creek, went down stream two or three rods,
and found the child. Meantime, my poor boy
Oliver, ran home and told me he could not find
her. Instinctively I knew her fate; I felt con-
fident that when Oliver set her down she had
turned to go back to Brother Young's, slipped
off the slab and fallen in the stream. I ran
across the street to Dr. Williams', they brought
her in, dead. No one seemed to have any faith
that she could be resuscitated, yet did all they
could to restore her to life, but the vital spark
had fled. My tongue turned cold in my mouth,
I felt that I was dying. With the courage of
a martyr I restrained my grief, that I might
live for my boy, for Oliver's sake. My joy and
hope to which I was looking forward in my old
age was taken. I thought of what Brother
Joseph had said, "Children I love, and children
I will have." She was taken to my room, as
we returned Sister Vilate Kimball said, "the
flower of the flock has gone."
	"Everything possible was done to console my
son Oliver, but the poor boy could not be com-
forted; he would retire and sit under the bushes
alone for hours. I never blamed him in the
least, he loved her so tenderly, that his heart
was rent with anguish too deep for words.
Zina, Lucy and Clara Young prepared her
clothing for her burial, and she looked so beau-
tiful, so lovely. She was buried on the 10th
of May. I tried to smother my excessive grief,
but after dark I visited her grave day after
day, and there on the sacred ground gave vent
to my sorrow in tears."
	"A few days previous to the death of my lit-
tle one Brother Kimball had a curious dream,
that seemed to be a forshadowing of evil. He
dreamed that he saw a serpent carry off one of
his children; he went into every house and
warned every mother to watch her children
carefully. I watched and prayed, and that
very morning I asked God to protect my child
from accident seen and unseen through the day;
but God knew best. She was innocent, lovely
and fair, beautiful to look upon, and was un-
doubtedly taken from the evil to come.

[Column 3]
Strange indeed, but the destiny of everyone of
the Prophet Joseph's wives, that have had two
children born in the new and everlasting
covenant, has been to bury their first born in
the covenant."
	"Sister Mary A. Hubbard, who now resides
in Willard City, came and staid with me about
two months, which was a great comfort to me.
She had a lovely babe about the same age as
mine, and it took my attention, and was a
great blessing for the time. After she went
home I gradually lost my appetite, and grief
filled my heart. In the fall my health became
very poor. My sister Zina and I went to Cot-
tonwood with our children to Brother Bank-
head's, to see if the change would be beneficial.
There I was taken very ill and thought to be
near my end. I was nigh unto death, my feet
were cold, my tongue was stiff in my mouth, I
could not speak, yet I was perfectly conscious; a
candle in the room looked like the most distant
star. It was a log house, and the walls had
sunk so that the door could never be opened
or closed tight without effort, yet the door
opened by invisible hands in the middle of the
night, and my father and Joseph Smith walked
into the room. I knew by that appreciative
spiritual power, which all possess to a certain
degree, that they were in the room, and I
turned my face to the wall, feeling impressed
they had come for me, and that if I should see
them, I must go with them. I felt that it
would be too much to leave my little Oliver,
my only one now left to me, alone in the world
without father or mother, with the burden of
his great sorrow upon him, for he mourned and
could not be wholly comforted for the loss of
his little sister. Brother Bankhead sent for
Brother Kimball, he came and administered to
me, and by the power of faith through the a-
nointing and laying on of hands I was healed,
and able to return home. Several Elders ad-
ministered to me at different times. I returned
to the city after an absence of a few weeks and
soon after my health failed preceptibly. I
went into a kind of decline, which developed
dropsy of the heart, and subsequently dropsy
of the entire body."

To be Continued.


The Princess Louise has promised to send a
number of her paintings to the Foreign Ex-
hibition in Boston, next October.—Ex.
	In Omaha, Neb., 90 saloons pay into the
treasury $90,000 for license. This is one item
of the liquor question, but what about the
money the State of Nebraska must spend to
take care of the paupers and criminals, and
what about the desolated homes and broken
hearts, that no amount of money can ever
atone for.
	There is a handsome monument now being
prepared, by command and at the expense of
the Queen. It is made of Aberdeen granite,
and is to be placed over the grave of the late
John Brown in the parish churchyard of Cra-
thie. Messrs MacDonald, Field, and Co.,
Aberdeen, are executing the work. It is of a
chaste design, the chief ornamentation being the
Scottish thistle on the cornice, which is carved in
relief and a border of oak and ivy, just as it
should be. The inscription is as folows:—"This
stone is erected in affectionate and grateful re-
membrance of John Brown, the devoted and per-
sonal attendant and the beloved friend of
Queen Victoria, in whose service he had been
for 34 years. Born at Crathienaird, December,
1826; died at Windsor Castle, March 27, 1883.
'That friend on whose fidelity you count, that
friend given you by circumstances over which
you have no control, was God's own gift.
'Well done, good and faithful servant; thou
hast been faithful over a few things, I will make
thee ruler over many things: enter thou into
the joy of thy Lord."—Selected.


44	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMEN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE E. WELLS,	-	-	Editor. 
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z.C.M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	AUGUST 15, 1883


[Column 1]
AN OPINION.

	The city is getting a goodly share of visitors
this season. The gathering or reunion of
Knights Templar at San Francisco has brought
numbers of gentleman and ladies from all parts
of the United States, and Salt Lake City being
one of the curiosities of the present day, people
come to see it as they go to see Mammoth Cave
or Niagara Falls. The ignorance many of
them manifest in speaking about Mormons is
most absurd and ridiculous. For instance, a[-]-
ter walking around the city for hours, to accost
a little girl and inquire, "could they see any
Mormons?" As if Mormons were in a cage, or
shut up like so many prisoners, when in all
probability most of the people they had seen
had been Mormons. There are many of these
intelligent, educated and cultured people who
really seem to think Mormons utterly unlike all
other folks. Perhaps this is not so very strange
as "they are everywhere spoken against," but
the fact that when they come right into the
heart of the city where this peculiar people re-
side, that they ask for information from their
enemies rather than the people themselves
seems a little outre. However, they are only
following the example of the Federal officials
and Commissioners, who profess to be so deeply
interested in the welfare of the territory, but
have never in any way sought to become ac-
quainted with the people, but judge them from
an outside standpoint.
	The questions now before the public and call-
ing forth so much comment from the press all
over the country, ought, in our opinion, to be
more fully discussed right here at home.
	Why should the people who settled this val-
ley and made it habitable and desirable be dis-
franchised and regarded as criminals, without a
trial? And why should they be thus punished
by being deprived of citizenship for that which
was not an offence against the law when the
actual circumstance transpired, but was only
made so by the Poland bill of 1882. To illus-
trate let us cite one case. The person married
in 1855, in 1856 the husband died, both were
American-born citizens, descended from those
whose forefathers fought for liberty in the strug-
gle for independence. Yet this woman, a widow
twenty-seven years, at the age of sixty is exclu-
ded from the polls, forsooth, because twenty-
seven years ago she was a plural wife. One
might bring up hundreds of exceptional cases,
but to no purpose, for the commissioners have
decided that no person who ever has at any time
been connected in plural family relations shall
be eligible to register or vote.
	One item more on this subject, here are the
wives of Heber C. Kimball, every one of them
native-born, intelligent women, property owners

[Column 2]
and tax-payers. They have been widows more
than fifteen years, but they, too, are excluded
the polls. The wives of Brigham Young, pion-
eer women, who helped to reclaim these desert
lands, he has been dead six years, but it makes
no difference, there is no exception made in
favor of any of these plural wives; no consid-
eration of their present condition, because they
were once married in that, to the world, detesta-
ble order they are forever doomed, if such men
are to bear away.
	"The mills of the Gods grind slowly, but they
grind exceedingly f[--]e;" and to those who are so
ready to judge and decide, and to condemn on
the slightest pretext, let them beware, lest
judgement overtake them, and they be found
without excuse.
	The world is ripe with wickedness and cor-
ruption. Do these honorable judges, sent here
to enforce the laws, take any measures to sup-
press iniquity and check the growth of vice that
stalks abroad at noon-day? No! They are not
here to interfere with places of this kind, with
the whiskey element or disreputable places of
any sort, but to put down a religious doctrine
and practice that is obnoxious to the world, be-
cause it is in direct opposition to the practices of
the generation in which we live. What is the
status of morality in Washington, New York,
Philadelphia and Boston, the most noted cities
of the east? Why, these tourists who come
direct from these large cities tell us—that
women are untrue to their husbands, to their
marriage covenants, that rich men have not
only a wife, but one or two mistresses. That
the young girl or woman that is led away and
seduced from the paths of virtue is cast out and
abandoned; society will not recognize her, but
the seducer, the villian who has deceived, mis-
led and betrayed her, is received in society and
his crime only winked at, and Madame Grundy
allows him to pass muster because "he must sow
his wild oats."
	Is it because of the desire to benefit and ele-
vate the people that this campaign has been in-
uagurated against the Mormons? Everybody
knows better. It is to gain possession of their
property and of the public treasury. To enrich
politicians and greedy office seekers from the
hard earned profits of the original settlers. And
what have the Mormons asked of the govern-
ment, simply justice, nothing more, or not even
that but to be left alone. History tells us "jus-
tice is the essence of government," and without
it all forms of government are tyrannies. Where
is the justice of the Edmund's law, or even its
consistency, when we consider the practices of
the world? But even were Congress desirous
of crushing out and destroying the system of
plural marriage as b[-]lieved and practiced by
this people; why trample upon the sacred
principles of the Constitution by making the
law retro-active, in opposition to the very ele-
ments of ju[--]ice. To condemn and actually
punish wit[-]ou[-] j[-]dge or jury cannot savor o[-]
justice, when the law declares that even crimi-
nals shall be tried by a jury of their peers. God
has in no way manifested his displeasure at the
practice of plural marriage in the present day.
On the contrary, He has in many ways made
known to those who are partakers of his spirit,
that it is by him approved; in fact He has
commanded his servants to enter into this holy
order of marriage. It is a matter of sincere re
gret to all who comprehend the necessity of ad-
hering strictly to the basis of true government,
when such highhanded oppression can be
countenanced by the executive admisistration,
knowing that the consequences must be disas-
trous to the country itself. A great writer
has said, "Constitutions are never overthrown
till they have pronounced sentence on them

[Column 3]
selves." There are many things to be considered
when one but touches a subject that involves so
many, and such important and complicated in-
terests as that of legislating against religions lib-
erty. However unjust legislation Congress may
enact, the Mormon people can afford to abide
by it better than the country can endure its de-
moralizing and corrupting effects.


MISS FRANCES E. WILLARD.

	Miss Frances E. Willard, the celebrated Lec-
turer and President of the Woman's Christian
Temperance Union in the United States, visited
Salt Lake Lake City last week and delivered
two of her brilliant and interesting lectures.
She is very pleasing in manner, also in her ap-
pearance upon the platform is a lady that to see
is to admire; and she is no doubt capable of all
she has undertaken; easy and graceful, and
"talks a great deal with her hands;" her ges-
tures are something indescribably fascinating.
She is doing a mammoth work in the temper-
ance cause. We had the pleasure of hearing
her lecture, entitled, "Mother and Son, or The
Mother and the Boy," which was touching in
the extreme. God speed Miss Willard in her
work for temperance and the ballot. The Union
Signal, published in Chicago, Ill., and edited
by Miss Willard's sister, is the organ of the
W. C. T. U. We are glad of the opportunity
of exchanging with the Union, and shall give it
favorable notice. Miss Willard has her secretary
traveling with her, Miss Gordon, of Boston,
quite a young person, very intelligent and
agreeable, and evidently devoted to the cause
of reform. They are organizing in the principal
cities of the Union, and laying out regular cam-
paign work that must eventually result in effic-
ient and permanent organizations, in towns and
villages as well as large cities. This is laudable
work for woman and much more creditable than
to be beseeching and entreating Congress, the
pulpit and the press to take measures to coerce
the consciences of a people who are themselves
engaged in a work of reform broader and more
philanthropic than the world outside have ever
undertaken since the days of the Savior and his
Apostles.


﻿LETTER NUMBER TWO.

CLEVELAND, Ohio, July 31,1883.

MY DEAR MOTHER:
	We are ready and waiting to go to Kirtland,
and I thought as I had a few minutes I would
write just a note. Cleveland is beautiful, very.
All that John Q. Cannon said of Euclid Ave-
nue is more than true. I was perfectly charmed
with it. There are two rows of trees on either
side of the street, and the branches almost
touch as you pass through. The residences are
grand, they have such immense lawns and
drives, the largest I have ever seen anywhere.
We arrived last night about eight o'clock; took
a carriage and rode from the depot to Forest
City Hotel. We were very much fatigued, for
the road from Chicago is very tiresome, and
they do not give you time to get anything to
eat except a cracker or cake. We were obliged
to stop here as we could not get a train to go on
until to-day; we have had a splendid time; we
went up Euclid Avenue, from there to L[-]ke
View Cemetery, where President Garfield is
buried. It is perfectly lovely, situated on a side
hill; we saw his coffin in the vault and the
place where his own tomb is to be. Two senti-
nels stand guard by his tomb all the time.
Lake View is also a very lovely place.
			NIAGARA FALLS, August 3.
	I did not have time to finish my letter in
Cleveland and so shall continue it here. We


have been to Kirtland and had such an inter-
esting time. B[--]lle's uncle and aunt (Samuel
Whitney and wife) are very nice people, and
were just delighted to see and entertain us.
They are very well off and did everything pos-
sible to make our visit a pleasant one. They
took us over to Kirtland, four miles distant from
Mentor, where they live. We went all over the
Temple and up to the top, had such a charming
view of the Kirtland hills. The Temple is be-
ing fixed up by the Josephite just as it was in
the early days when our people used it * * *
We visited Mr. Samuel Whitney's old house,
also Belle's father's old place (Bishop N. K.
Whitney's) and the old store; they told us these
were more natural than any of the old places.
The store is occupied, but the house is vacant.
We went to the house where Sister Sarah M.
Kimball was married and lived, Joseph Kings-
bury's old home, Joseph Smith's and Hyrum's,
his brother, and all the old places of interest.
The old graveyard by the Temple, saw Belle's
grandfather's and grandmother's graves, also
her aunt's; they all have very nice tombstones.
The folks were all very kind and nice, and Mr.
Whitney said if we should stay another day
we should have everyone calling on us, and he
expected any way that they would write an
article about us in the paper, * * of course
our names * * were registered from
Salt Lake, and Belle being introduced as N. K.
Whitney's daughter. * *	The
whitneys are pleasant people and well educated
and their surroundings are very neat and taste-
ful.
	The scenery there is exceedingly lovely, the
most beautiful hedges of sumach and sassafras,
and I thought so much of Annie and the "Order
for a Picture," that she recites so well, (I tried
to say it over to myself, but could not remember
it) the meadows where we went to see the
hedges were so pretty, and the new-mown hay
was so fragrant, oh, how I did wish that we
were all together, how much more we would
have enjoyed it.
	We met Sister S. M. Kimball yesterday at
Willoughby, where we take the train to come
here from Kirtland, she was just as delighted as
we were, but not so surprised, as she had regis-
tered at the Temple just after us, and had
noticed our names. She is having a delightful
time; her cousin, Ellen Granger, is with her.
We left them last night at nine o'clock; they
go on to Newark, Wayne Co., New York. * *
	We have been at Niagara Falls all day. I
had not imagined them half so grand as they
are. I have never enjoyed any sight so much
in my life; I will speak of them again but have
not time now. * * * * *
	Give my love to all the folks, also Belle's. We
are hurrying so to get to Massachusetts in time
for the Dickinson meeting I will write to you
from uncle's.		Lovingly,
						LOUIE WELLS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 45


[Column 1]
MUSINGS.

	In moments of deepest solitude many, many
things pass through my mind. I think some-
times, particularly after holding converse with
some unfortunate person who views every
subject from the darkest side, what a priceless
gift is cheerfulness; how the sight of a glad,
bright face cheers us in moments of sadness.
What a world of rest and joy does the face of
the husband, if at be a cheerful face, bring to
the tired, over-wrought wife and mother. On
the other hand, if it be a dark and gloomy
countenance with which he greets the loved
ones at his hearth, what a shadow seems to
accompany him there, casting a gloom over
the entire circle of home. In these reveries or
communions with myself, I cannot but admit

[Column 2]
that the husband and father has no light task
battling with the world and toiling for the
daily sustenance of his family, but would en-
treat you all, though you have great trials and
perplexities in your business with the world, do
not carry to your homes a c[--]uded or contracted
brow. Your wife may have many troubles,
though of less magnitude, may have been as
hard to bear. A kind, conciliatory word; a ten-
der look; one single endearing term will do won-
ders in chasing from her brow all clouds of
gloom. You encounter your difficulties in the
open air, "fanned by heaven [---][---] but
your wife is often shut in from those healthful
influences. Her health falls, and her spirits
lose their elasticity, and you wonder in your
heart the cause. Oh, be to her what you once
was in your happy courting days, and mark
well how the drooping flower will look up and
bloom forth again with a beauty almost celes-
tial; bear with her, she has sorrows and trials,
to which you are a stranger; but which your
tenderness and love can dep[-]ive of all their an-
guish; and above all things do not treat her with
indifference, if you would not scar and palsy her
heart, which watered by kindness would to the
latest days of your existence throb with serene
and perfect affection. Sometimes yield your
wishes to hers; do you find it hard to yield
occasionally? Think you it is not difficult for
her to give up always? Again, show yourself
manly so that your wife can look up at you and
f[-]el that you act justly and nobly, and can freely
give her entire confidence and trust to your
judgment. If husbands were a little more
mindful of these little things so important to
woman, methinks there would be many happy
homes which are to-day desolate, not because
love does not abide therein, but for the reason,
we forget or neglect to speak of it; husbands
more frequently, I think, fall into the error of
thinking it is quite needless to speak of love
after marriage, and if ever taxed with neglect
for the same, will reply, "You understand per-
fectly well that you possess my love why reiter-
ate it?" Why, indeed! The matter that ap-
pears so trivial to the husband, is to the tired
housewife of countless worth; it is literally a
part of her existence. Husbands, if you would
see your companion wear a happy face; if you
would see her bright and cheerful, at once a
faithful, loving wife and true mother, bringing
up your children in the right and proper way,
imbuing the principles of truth and religion
into their fresh young hearts and minds; if you
would bar forever the thoughts of woman's
rights from her mind, and make her think her
position at home is infinitely superior to any
political office she might ever aspire to; if you
would see all this you have but to woo her
every day, as you did in the happy past when
she was but a happy, thoughtless girl; she needs
your love and comfort so much more now than
she did then. Her cares are so numerous and
trying that ere long, deprived of her husband's
encouragement and affection, she sinks gradual-
ly into a careworn, fretful woman, a comfort to
none, not even herself, and the husband de-
plores his unhappy fate in being tied up for life
to such a shrew. He would do well to carefully
scan his own actions in the past, and see if such
a state of affairs could not have been avoided;
and your children, those bright flowers that
spring up almost unperceived into your path,
give them too a father's boundless love and en-
couragement. One of our popular writers has
truthfully said: "The father who plunges into
business too deeply that he has not leisure for
domestic duties and pleasures, and whose only
intercourse with his children consists in a brief
word of authority or a surly lamentation over
their intolerable expensiveness, is equally to be
pitied and to be blamed."

[Column 3]
	I have, no doubt, already called forth frowns
and disapproving looks from the male portion
of my readers, but let me assure them I am a
devoted friend of good men, and as there is al-
ways two sides to every subject I may some day
take the trouble to pen some of my musings
on the other side of this question. In conclu-
sion I will say, we often wonder why it is that
we see so much sorrow and suffering in life;
it is indeed a mystery, and one that no philoso-
phy can solve; but God is wise and just, and
has said that our trials work out for us a more
excellent and eternal weight of glory; then we
must look to Him for comfort and support in the
sorrows through which we are called to pass,
knowing that He doeth all things well.
	Then,
	"God help us all, and lead us day by day;
		God help us all!
	For who can walk alone the perfect way?
	Evil allures and tempts us, and we fall
	Alas, dear friends, our human strength is small,
	And which of us may boast? Ah, not a day
	Sifts thro' our lives but each has need to say—
		God help us all!"

Clover Dale Farm.						B. A. B.


AWAKEN THE PATRIOTS.

	The subject we wish to introduce or refer to
is rather painful as well as unpleasant. Shall
we soil the pure pages of our valuable paper by
inserting in its columns some items of the out-
rage committed upon a daughter of the Repub-
lic, viz: the imprisonment of Belle Harris. It is
without a precedent in the history of the Amer-
ican nation. We fail to find words in the Eng-
lish language to express the indignation we feel
while those who commit the crimes of prostitu-
tion and infanticide walk the streets at mid-day
unmolested. The same administrators of the
law that passed sentence upon Belle Harris for
presuming to follow the example of our Savior
when He was arraigned before the cheif judges
and rulers. It is recorded that he opened not
his mouth. Notwithstanding injury upon in-
jury added to insult to which the Mormon peo-
ple have been subjected for the last fifty years,
plundered, mobbed and driven; their leaders
martyred; their women outraged; in all this
the government looked on with silent contempt,
when most of those very persons, the victims
of these cruelties, were sons and daughters of
the patriot fathers. They loved the dear old
flag; they were born heirs to that heaven-born
freedom bequeathed to them by their veteran
ancestry. Maltreated and unprotected as they
have been under the government of the United
States, they have in no instance violated the
Constitution, or failed to honor the flag of our
country, and yet in the eyes of all nations, our
noble delegate, George Q. Cannon, who was an
honor to the Congressional Halls of our nation,
was deprived of his seat by a violation of the
Constitution. This we consider an insult, not
only to his constituents but to every American
citizen, and a stain on the escutcheon of our
country. Do the patriots sleep? O, God, awaken
them! Now, shall we who hold the birthright
of liberty sit silently by and see one of fair
freedom's daughters imprisoned for refusing to
answer impertinent questions? No! Belle
Harris has done honor to her sex, and placed a
star within her crown that will never fade, and
minist[-]ring angels bear record of her innocence,
and messengers bear the news to the land of
the patriots, who spilt their blood to bequeathe
that legacy that Belle Harris does not enjoy to-
day—Liberty! And should her case not receive
a righteous decision in the courts of earth, it
can be appealed to the councils of the Gods, and
then retribution will come; she can afford to


wait. The Saints were imprisoned anciently.
The Apostle Paul's imprisonment and defense
is a beautiful illustration of injustice and un-
righteous imprisonment, and the bles-ing of
God sending an angel to open the prison doors
when Paul and Silas were heard praying and
singing at midnight, when the prison doors flew
open and the keeper would have killed himself
but the mighty apostle said, "Do thyself no
harm; we are here," and the jailor washed his
stripes and was baptized the same hour. This
chief apostle testified that he had seen a vision,
and that Jesus had risen from the dead; for
this reason he was stoned and imprisoned; and
even in our day, under the sacred Constitution
that was given by inspiration, and the folds of
that dear old flag that still waves so proudly,
beckoning all nations to come to the land of the
free. Shall I write it? Yes, publish it; let the
world know and angels bear record on earth and
in heaven that mother and infant are incarcer-
ated in prison for the mother presuming to an-
swer the end of her creation, "multiplying and
replenishing the earth." We heard a talented
man say in a public lecture, that but few men
ever produced sons equal or superior to them-
selves from the fact of the mother being infe-
rior; if this be true, why not elevate women
and regenerate statesmen and patriots? Is not
the human family of more importance than the
animal creation?			WILLMIRTH EAST.


46	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE BOOK OF MORMON.

	The Book of Mormon is an account of the an-
cient inhabitants of America, where they came
from, how they came to this land, a short his-
tory of what took place with them, the teach-
ings of the prophets which God raised up to
them, and the appearance of Jesus to them, as
"the sheep of that other fold."
	It tells of his teachings to them, of his calling
twelve apostles as witnesses that he had risen
from the dead. That testimony and his teach-
ings were engraven on plates in what they
called the reformed Egyptian. This was a kind
of Phonetic, or short hand way of engraving
the history of the events they wished to record,
by certain marks and characters in use among
them for that purpose.
	The engraving was done on plates of gold, or
bras[-], and these were bound together by rings,
so as to form a book. These pla[-]es were handed
down from father to son, each one who kept
them engraving on them the events which hap-
pened in their day; till at last because of wick-
edness they were about to be destroyed, when
Moroni, one of the last of the prophets, by com-
mand of the Lord, hid them up in a hill called,
by them, Cumorah.
	When the appointed time arrived he gave
them to Joseph Smith, who translated them by
the gift and power of God.
	These plates and those they brought from
Jerusalem were to them what the Bible was to
the rest of the world.				KATRINA.


[Column 1]
R S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

BEAR LAKE STAKE.

	The tenth Semi Annual Conference of the
Relief Society of Bear Lake Stake was held at
St. Charles on the 21st and 22nd inst., Mrs
Julia P. Lindsay presiding. Singing. President
Lindsay said, * * we have met under very
favorable circumstances this morning, said she
and hoped the Spirit of the Lord would
rest abundantly upon us, that we might feel
blest and strengthened in our most holy faith.

[Column 2]
Roll was then called by the secretary and the
minutes of the previous conference were read
and approved. The societies were represented
as follows:
	St. Charles, Counselor Christina Willhelm-
sen; Bloomington, Sister Nelson; Paris, 1st
Ward, Sister Elizabeth Collings; Paris, 2nd
Ward, President M. A. Shepherd; Ovid, Martha
Carleson; Montpelier, P. Hogensen; Liberty,
Cotton Wood, Preston, Bennington, George-
Town and Soda Springs were not represented.
Fish Haven, President Frances Howell; Gar-
den City, Meadowville, Lake Town and Ran-
dolph not reported. Woodruff, President
Harriet Lee; Saleratus Creek not reported.
The statistical and financial reports were then
read and accepted.
	President Lindsay was pleased with the re-
ports as far as they went, but sorry that more
of the societies were not represented. Gave a
brief sketch of her trip through the southern
settlements; desired to visit the northern settle-
ments before conference, but had been deprived
that pleasure on account of the contagious
disease at Montpelier. Could see by the verb-
al reports that some of the sisters were slack in
attending their meetings, but willing to donate
and help in other ways. This is not all that is
needed. It is a mother's duty to attend, that
they may be prepared to teach their little ones.
We must be Saints in very deed, and be will-
ing to spend a portion of our time in the work
of God.
	Counselor Elizabeth Collings felt like doing
what was required of her. Had been greatly
blest in days gone by, and knew that the
Lord would assist her now, if she would rely
upon Him. What kind of people ought we to
be? We have many duties devolving upon us,
and one of the most importance is that of rais-
ing our children in the fear of the Lord. Their
minds are young and tender and we must set
them a good example. Teach them to be truth-
ful, honest and upright, and to live strictly in
accordance with the requirements of our
Heavenly Father.
	Sister Sarah Holmes felt that we were en-
gaged in a great and noble work. "We live in an
age when great things are transpiring among the
nations of the earth, as well as here at home;"
said that she could see that the prophecies were
being fulfilled. We came here to Zion to
learn the will of the Lord, and she felt that it
was our duty to do it; had been busily engaged
for some time in getting the genealogy of her
relatives, so that she would be able to do a
work for them when the Temples were finished.
What reward will we get if we never do any-
thing for them? How will we feel when we
meet them in the other world if we neglect
this all important duty? Felt that there was
a word of praise due to the people of St.
Charles for the way in which they had cleaned
and decorated the meeting house, as the Spirit
of God would rest more abundantly upon a
meeting in such a place.
	Singing. Dismissed by Elder Arthur B.
Clark.
	The P.M. was accupied by the Y. L. M. I. A.
	Second day, 10 a.m., July 22nd, 1883, Presi-
dent Julia P. Lindsay presiding. Singing.
Prayer by President Wm. Budge. Singing.
	President Ann Cook reported the Garden
City Ward.
	Sister Elizabeth Pugmire read the reports
sent in by the different Relief Societies.
	President Julia P. Lindsay said she did not
know how to express the gratitude she felt for
the privilege of meeting together under such
favorable circumstances, to give and receive
instructions. The condition of the societies
depended greatly on the teachers. "We may
think that the office of a teacher is not a very im-
portant one, but it is very necessary they should
have the Spirit of the Lord to dwell with them,
that they may be enabled to do their duties.

[Column 3]
Said. it is our duty, when our husbands are
not at home, to attend to family prayers night
and morning. We should call our children to
pray, beginning when they are young; have
them ask the blessing, and the Spirit of the
Lord will grow with them. A great responsi-
bility rests upon the mothers in Israel. It is
well understood that we have been for some
time anticipating having some sisters sent to
receive thorough medical instructions. We
have two sisters now in Salt Lake, and they
are progressing very well, but we do not wish
to stop at this. We wish to have one go from
every settlement, or, when the settlements are
small, one for two settlements, for it is very
necessary that we should have such in our midst
as are well skilled, and, by the help of God,
able to assist in sickness. Hoped the societies,
with such aid as the Bishops could give, would
take an interest in this important matter. We
are called upon in this stake, in common with
others, to donate to the Deseret Hospital, would
like to send all we can this fall. The Lord
has blessed us with means, let us use a portion
of it for the building up of His kingdom, and
in favor of such things as are necessary for the
prosperity of the people. Prayed God to bless
all, and enable us to serve the Lord our God,
in the name of Jesus. Amen."
	Counselor Elizabeth Collings said, we are in
a school to learn and improve; we should be
thankful that our spirits have been kept back
to come forth in the last dispensation, the wind-
ing up scene. It is much better to even be a
member of the kingdom of God than to dwell
in the palaces of the rich. Hoped that we
might be guided by the Holy Spirit, that when
we have finished our work here we might be
worthy of an inheritance in the kingdom of
God.
	Sister Emeline Rich	*	*	felt
truly thankful to behold the faces of her
brothers and sisters, and to see them in the en-
joyment of health; said, I see no pallid faces
before me; said she was particularly interested
in the remarks of President Lindsay, for she
had been engaged in the labor of nurse and
physician, and could say that the Lord had
opened the way before her in her studies most
wonderfully.	*	*	*	*
	President Wm. Budge said he had been
much interested in listening to the instructions
of the sisters; was much pleased with the re-
marks of President Lindsay, in regard to send-
ing sisters to the city to obtain a knowledge of
obstetrics. Good, faithful sisters full of integ-
rity and possessed of good judgment should be
sent, and those at home should provide the means
for them if they cannot furnish it for themselves;
he endorsed the propriety of the instructions
given in relation to household affairs. We
well know if there is a lack of understanding
and management at home, there cannot be
happiness there. Would like to have as much
time as possible devoted to the instruction of
the sisters, in regard to their religious duties.
A person who neglects his prayers, who does
not exercise the feeling of charity and kind-
ness towards his brothers and sisters, who with-
draws himself from the Saints, is not a Latterday
Saint. Would like all to be directed according
to the principles of truth. The people of the
world are guided continually by their own feel-
ings and with their interests, but we must be
guided by the principles of truth. We have
come from the midst of confusion, where we
should dwell in peace and union. May God
bless the Relief Societies, Young Ladies, Prim-
ary and all organizations, and let all labor for
the good of each other, is my prayer in the
name of Jesus. Amen.
	President Lindsay said the Relief Society
Conference would be adjourned for six months.
Primary would be represented at two p.m.
Would hold a two days meeting in Lake Town
the 12th and 13th of September, and also in


Randolph 15th and 16th of September; all are
cordially invited to attend.
	Choir sang an anthem, "Awake, awake, put
on thy strength O Zion!" Benediction by
Bishop John A Hunt.
		ELIZABETH PUGMIRE, Secretary,
		JULIA BUDGE, Asst. Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 47


[Column 1]
CORRESPONDENCE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	After an absence of ten years I find myself
again in the promising City of Logan. Promi-
nent among the edifices erected since my last
visit are the magnificent Temple and the ele-
gant and commodious Tabernacle, in which
Sabbath meetings are held. On Monday last
we had the privilege of going through the Tem-
ple, and as it was my first opportunity of visit-
ing a building of this character you may judge
of my feelings in viewing the elegant propor-
tions of this house of God. The workman-
ship, as well as the material, is of the most ex-
cellent kind. Great care is taken to have
everything properly done.
	It would not be right should I particularize
in favor of any class of workmen, as all the
departments show skill and faithfulness of exe-
cution. The Plaster-of -Paris work though
deserves a special mention, as it tends so much
to beautify the structure. The center pieces
of this material are being done by a Utah boy,
and display much taste and skill in design and
execution. The Utah material for this pur-
pose is much whiter and finer than that which
is imported from the east, hence is used in their
construction, as also in the other work. Those
who have assisted by their means in rearing
this beautiful structure will be blessed in a
day to come, and many will rejoice that they
have subscribed their names in so great a cause.
	A nickle fund, established by President
Moses Thatcher some years ago, has accumu-
lated over two thousand dollars towards the
building. Thus the young are privileged to
cast in their "mites," to aid in this noble work.
One little fellow a short time since asked the
privilege of going up to see the building, but
was told he could not, as it was against the
rules, and he might fall and hurt himself, but
he replied. "I've paid my nickle every Sunday
and I've got an interest in this Temple, and I
think I ought to be allowed to go up." So they
let him go. It is hard to restrain those who
help to build the temples, when they desire
privileges therein. And it is with different
feelings that those draw near who fail to do
their share in the great work. It will require
about $25,000 yet to complete the Temple,
which has already cost over half a million;
but this will soon be raised where everybody
feels interested. In passing through the rooms
the account given me of the Nauvoo Temple
by my father came vividly to my mind, al-
though I was quite a child when I heard the
description from my father's lips, but very pleas-
ing recollections concerning the Temple, from
which our fathers were driven, were inspired
as I gazed upon the inner beauty of this more
modern structure, and the peaceful influence
which pervaded the building, fills the heart
with unbounded joy and gratitude to God for
the Gospel privileges granted to us. Other
matters, on which I desire to write, must be
deferred till another time.
						E. M. STAYNER.
	Logan, July 27th, 1883.

	MOAN COPPY WARD, Yavapai Co., Arizona
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:

	Perhaps a few lines from this isolated place
may be of interest to the readers of your
valuable paper. As a Relief Society we are
doing the best we can under the circumstances;

[Column 2]
our numbers have again been reduced nearly
half by those who have moved away in search
of better locations. Our President has been
absent most of the winter and spring, and we
will soon have to give her up entirely for she
also will move away in a few months. It is
rather discouraging to us as a society to be
broken up so often. We hold our meetings
once a month as regularly as circumstances
will permit, at which we read the EXPO-
NENT and other church works, striving to ren-
der them a source of benefit and mutual im-
provement.
	At a meeting of the society held November
21st, 1882, Elizabeth D, Gardner, on account
of failing health, resigned her position as first
Counselor to the President. She was honora-
bly released by vote and Mary A. Farns-
worth chosen in the same manner to fill the
vacancy thus created. Annie D. Farnsworth
was appointed to act as secretary with the for-
mer one as her assistant for the present.
	A pleasant little affair took place here a few
days ago in the shape of a surprise party given
in honor of the above named Elizabeth D.
Gardner, who has returned to southern Utah
to visit her friends and benefit her health.
	Members of the Relief Society accompanied
by the Bishop and other brethren repaired to
her house the evening previous to her de-
parture.
	A dress pattern with a number of other
small gifts were presented with appropriate
remarks, which were affectionately responded
to by the recipient. Owing to her delicate
state of health no other exercises were in-
dulged in except music, vocal and instrumen-
tal. After wishing the aged and respected
lady a pleasant journey and a safe return all
withdrew, feeling that in blessing they had
been blessed.
	There has been a great deal of sickness
among the Indians in this vicinity during the
winter, and many have died. We have also
had considerable sickness among our children,
but through the blessings of our Heavenly
Father and the power of the Holy Priesthood
their lives have all been spared thus far,
though some of them were brought very near
death's door.
	There were two cases of sickness among the
Piute Indians of which I will make particular
mention. The one, a young man, came to our
house very sick; he had previously been bap-
tized and desired to be administered to for his
health. The brethren when they laid their
hands upon his head were impressed by the
Spirit that he would pass away. They or-
dained him an Elder. One of them offered to
take him home and care for him, bnt he
seemed to prefer his own mode of living and
soon returned to his wigwam among the sand-
hills. A few days subsequently Brother C. L.
Christensen, who is an Indian interpreter,
started to attend the Stake Quarterly Confer-
ence at Sunset. He called at the Indian camp
and found the sick man to all appearances
much better, he expressed himself as being
free from pain, and seemed very cheerful and
happy. Brother Christensen was absent about
ten days, and on his return called again, but
found the camp ground deserted, and that
they had had a very large fire just previous to
leaving, near which lay a portion of the re-
mains of a horse; by raking among the ashes
he discovered what appeared to be the bones
of a human being; the truth flashed upon his
mind in a moment. The Indian had died; they
had burned his body and killed his horse and
a number of other animals to accompany him
to the spirit world, according to their tradi-
tion, an expense which they could ill afford for
they are very poor.
	The brethren are laboring diligently to
teach them the fallacy of all such traditions.
Case No. two was that of their chief, an old

[Column 3]
man, who was taken very sick, after suffering
terribly for a number of days he sent for the
elders to come and administer to him, which
they did; he arose immediately from his bed
and requested baptism at their hands. Nine-
teen of his tribe followed him into the waters
at this time and a number have been baptized
since. Bishop Farnsworth brought the old
chief home with him that he might have
proper care and nourishment; he remained two
weeks, at the end of which time he was able
to return to his home on the reservation. As
soon as he was gone four of our little children
were smitten down with what appeared to be
the same dreadful disease with which he suf-
fered. One of the number, a little boy of ex-
ceeding great faith, was healed almost instant-
ly after one week's illness by the laying on of
hands. The other three were brought very
low, the fever remaining with them six weeks.
But they are all well now and the general
health of the people is good.
	Praying God to bless you and all who strive
to advance the cause of Zion, we remain,
		Your sisters in the Gospel,
		ANNIE D. FARNSWORTH, Sec.,
		MARY A. FARNSWORTH, Asst. Sec.
	P. S. We greatly appreciate the EXPO-
NENT, and desire to nenew our subscription to
the same.						M. A. F.


LETTER FROM OHIO.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Dear friend, it seems like a very long while
since I have enjoyed the privilege of writing
to you; a severe attack of asthma and house-
hold duties has prevented me. Now I should
like to tell “Sister Eliza”, as you all lovingly
call Mrs. E. R. Snow, that her favor was a
great pleasure to me. I also was made happier
by the lines of love from Mrs. Crocheron.
And to the two Sisters who addressed me
through the EXPONENT of April 1st, I wish
to say, most assuredly I believe there is a God.
The heavens declare the glory of God; the
firmament sheweth His handiwork. "It is Mrs.
Welby, I think, who says,

"O, who can lift above a careless look,
	While such bright scenes as these his heart engage.
And doubt, while reading from so fair a book,
	That God’s own finger traced the glowing page,
Or deem the radiance of yon blue expanse
	With all its shining hosts, the careless work of
								chance."

	Yes, dear sisters, I believe in God. You say
then that I must, if I believe in Him, keep his
commandments; and you quote from Scripture:
“Repent and be baptized etc.” I can almost
say, in regard to the commandments of the
New Testament, “All these things have I ob-
served from my youth.”
The Rev. A. Alexander in his “Evidences of
Christianity” says that, “Man is so constituted
that he mnst have some sort of religion.”
That he has a “natural propensity to pay relig-
ious homage to some object visible or invisible."
I believe he is right in the assertion, and feel
that as I drift into the sea of unbelief I am un-
happy. I do not dare, nor wish to be so pre-
sumptuous as to try to stand alone religiously,
yet cannot find any church or persons who be-
lieve just as I do. The Catholics are zealous,
and, from what I have heard, their priests
preach good Scriptural doctrine, but their re-
igion does not seem to effect their every day
dealings. They can get drunk, sell liquor,
swear and do any and everything—yet be zeal-
ous, good Catholics; they openly violate the
plainest laws of the state or corporation. A
zealous member of any protestant church is,
by reason of his religion, a good citizen, a
good neighbor and upright in his or her busi-
ness transactions; but, to be a Methodist, a
Baptist, Presbyterian or Mormon, I must be-


lieve that "our church" has the truth, the whole
truth and nothing but the truth, and all the
others are wrong, and God will, some day,
"come out of his hiding place and vex them
with a sore vexation." I love everybody, sym-
pathise with the sorrowful and afflicted, pity
the wicked and do not wish to see anyone un-
happy. Were I a preacher my text would be
"Come, ye disconsolate, come unto me all who
weary and are heavy laden, I will give you
rest." "Little children, love one another."
"Peace on earth, good will to men," "The Lord
is my shepherd, I shall not want." The form-
alities of baptism etc., I believe in, and would
not oppose the Catholic's idea of abstaining
from eating meat on Friday, in commemora-
tion of the suffering in flesh of our Savior, nor
their confession, if the practice was not abused.
If a "tree being known by its fruit" proves
anything in this question the Swdenborgians
are right, for every one of that church, with
whom I have been associated, is, in spirit and
in truth, a Christian. But I cannot believe in
Emmanuel Swedenborg. So, you see, dear
friends, why I fear stepping into religious mud;
there is always one thing or another in the way
to prevent my faith from taking root. And
yet I wish to be religious, and while I am wait-
ing, like Micawber, I will live up to my favor-
ite texts, by speaking well of the Mormons
every time an opportunity is given; will, with-
in my little circle of friends, break down the
prejudice against the Mormon Church as far as
I can, and will ask you to remember the fact
that your opponents here, hear only the evil re-
ports, that your light has not yet shone here,
that men see your good works and glorify God
thereby. Forget, so far as you can the wrongs
of the past—the past is dead; let the dead past
bury its dead. All lovers of God should lay aside
bitterness and evil speaking one against another,
and join in one grand army against the evils of
the world.		With love,
	June 3rd, 1883.			EMILY SCOTT.


48	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs. Jenny Welsh Carlyle is the person
referred to in Leigh Hunt’s “Jenny kissed me
when we met."

	The Fourteenth Annual meeting of the
Amencan Woman Suffrage Association will be
held in Brooklyn, N. Y., Tuesday and Wednes-
day, Oct. 9th and 10th, proximo, in the Acade-
my of Music.

	Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball writes us from New-
ark, New York: “I designed writing a descrip-
tive letter from here, but on account of limited
time I will not be able. F. D. will tell you of
my meeting your daughters; I felt very lonely
in parting with them.
	I have had much satisfaction in visiting the
place of my birth and the scenes of my child-
hood. Cumorah Hill is nine miles from here;
I will pass it to-morrow. The house in which
spirit rappings commenced is in sight of here,
owned by my friend. Many visit it and take
away relics. There are many scenes and remines-
ences in the surroundings here of deep interest
to me. I feel that I have thus far been blest
and prospered in my travels and associations.
When I left my native town, Phelps, yester-
day, I felt that my course was towards home,
though I visit many friends by the way.

	The State of New Jersey at its convention
in August presented a very laudable platform,
which was read and finally adopted with the
exception of the temperance plank. The doc-
ument favored among other things equal taxa-
tion and universal suffrage. Telegrams say a
warm discussion followed over the clause allow-
ing woman suffrage. It appears too, that there
were women delegates present, for the papers
say, Mrs. Mattie Hawland, delegate, arose to


speak, but began crying and sat down. We
shall be very glad if New Jersey carries off
the palm in voting on woman suffrage.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Miss
Susan B. Anthony are receiving honors from
ladies of high social standing in London. The
August number of the Englishwoman's Review
will contain the addresses of Mrs. Stanton and
Miss Anthony at a meeting of the Central
Committee of the Natioual Society for woman
suffrage of England, Scotland and Ireland.
The Rev. Moncure Conway paid Mrs.
Stanton a very high compliment, by stating
that she was both a born preacher and prophet,
and invited her to occupy his pulpit, which
invitation she accepted for July 22nd, ult.


[Column 1]
NOTICE.

	To Secretaries of Rel[--]f Soc'eties. Please
send in your semi-annual reports by 15th of
September. Those received after 20th of Sep-
tember will have to be om[---]ted, as our rep[-]rt
her[-] will then have been made out Please
[-]end to Deseret News Office for blanks, twenty-
five cents per d zen Also it will be quite a
favor for each secretary to see that her report
balances it will save that work being done here.
Let real estate and property be under one head,
and very much oblige,
				S. M. KIMBALL, Secretary,
						Per R. B. Prat.

For Sale at this Office.

BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.

PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2, 		-	25c. per copy.
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,		40c. 	"
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,		-		$1.00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco,	-	1.50	"

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
Office and residence. 11th Ward, 7 blocks east
of the Deseret National Bank, and a half
block north, west side of the street.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHIDREN.

KNITTING FACTORY,
On 1st W. St., Bet. 2d and 3d North, Next Door South of W. H. Hooper's.
Men's Socks, Ladies' and Childrens' Stockings, Infants
Knitted Shirts and Shoes, Ladies' and Children's Hoods,
etc. Family Knitting done on Reasonable Terms.
CAROLINE C. RALEIGH,
19th WARD, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets, 	Brown Yarns, 	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	 White Yarns,	Wool Batting,
Shawls,	 	Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,	 	Cassimers,	 	Washboards, 
Jeans,	 	Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc,. Etc.

SCHOOL IN MIDWIFERY.

DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT

COMMENCES a new class in her office over Godbe &
Pitts' Drug Store October 8th, at 1 o'clock p. m.
This school was established in 1878. The Term of five
months, three lectures per week, is a practical course
for those who desire to enter at once into this work. It
is advised that those whose circumstances will admit,
attend a second course, for the subject is so comprehen-
sive that a repetition of the lectures is very advan-
tageous, especially to those of limited edncation.
	Other branches of medicine are taught only as they
bear especially upon this subject. More than that in so
limited a course would be too superficial. Manikin,
charts and instruments are used in teaching.
Tuition.............................................$30.00
Books...............................................$13.00
N. B.—Orders for books must be sent in early so as to
get them from the east in time.

[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
☞ We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLES,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

[Image of store]
HENRY DINWOODEY.

FURNITURE,
WALL PAPER,
CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREOUNS
AND WINDOW CORNICNES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY.

F Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
☞ CALL AND EXAMINE. ☜


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 12.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1, 1883.	NO. 7.


LINES ON LEAVING ENGLAND.

Farewell old England! Thou hast been to me—
	Albeit a stranger to thine ancient strand—
A friend to whom, while longing to be free,
	I yet shall grieve to give the parting hand.
'Tis not that thou art fair, for fair thou art,
	Far more than fame—than fancy's tongue hath told,
'Tis not thy royal court, thy rushing mart;
	Thy verdant meadows, fields and forests old;
Nor ruins grey from time's unfailing flight;
	Nor palaces, nor temples manifold,
Nor all that woo's and wins the wondering sight,
	Where art and nature rivalling unfold.

Ah! no; all these I willingly forsake,
	For scenes to me far lovelier and more dear,
From which to part did erst this bosom shake,
	While from these eyes fell many a tender tear.
But 'tis that here I leave, perchance for e'er,
	Hearts loyal, warm and loving, but for whom
My ling'ring stay amidst, which doth appear
	As brief and bright as Spring's ephemeral bloom,
Would seem an exile desolate and drear.

Talk not to me, proud world, of worthier deeds
	Emblazoned on the scroll of earthly fame,
Where charity, self-trumpeted, may read
	On flattery's page each gift and giver's name;
Talk not of friendship, tenderness and truth,
	Till thou hast seen how bright that love doth burn,
Which sows the seed of unrespecting ruth,
	Nor hopes a golden harvest in return.

Can I forget, when friendless and alone—
	Outcast for sake of Him who lived and died
That man might live and never die—the tone,
	The kindly clasp, the cordial smile, that vied
With each the other, friendship's truth to tell?
	Or memory's air lose redolence of deeds—
Fair fruit of faith undying—deeds that fell
	Like sunbeams on the soul, or goodly seeds
On fertile soil, all fruitful of their kind,
	To bloom and blossom on through endless years?
No, no—rather shall all-remembering Mind
	Forget itself, ere mine itself forswears.

But see!—the sails are spread, the favoring breeze—
	Whereof our gallant bark hath little need—
Blows oceanward, and o'er the rolling seas
	By winged steam impelled we swiftly speed.
Friends, brothers, sisters dear! a last farewell!—
	Not long I trust, though long it still must be,
Howe'er so brief, till mutual bosoms swell
	With blest reunion's fond felicity.
Adieu! adieu! How sad the parting sound,
	Let sighing winds and sobbing waves now tell;
Onward speed onward, bark for Zion bound!
	Old England, bonds and Babylon!—farewell!
									O. F. WHITNEY.

June, 1883.


[Column 1]

RELIGION AND SCIENCE.

	The more we reflect on the uniformity of
these two subjects the more we will be sur-
prised that some people should think there
was so vast a gulf between them.
	Probably this opinion is partly due to the
teachings of some of the Christian Churches;
that God made this world out of nothing; this
they know is at variance with natural law,
and probably judging the remainder of the
Christian religion by that and a belief in a
God without body, parts or passions, they see
the absurdity and lapse into infidelity. The
Latter-day Saints could not do this! With
a correct idea of the Supreme Being,
and a knowledge of His laws, religion and
science cease to differ. Religion is only a term
applied to those laws and commandments, bap-

[Column 2]

tism, confirmation, etc., that immediately con-
cern our salvation; while the term science is
applied to the works of the same being, but to
understand which is not cousidered essential
to salvation.
	God has upon several occasions spoken to
men about his works. To Job He said, "Where
wast thou when I laid the foundation of the
earth? declare if thou hast understanding.
Who hast laid the measures thereof, if thou
knowest? or who hast stretched the line upon
it? Whereupon are the foundations thereof
fastened? or who laid the corner stones there-
of?"
	He gave Abraham the Urim and Thummim,
and among other things told him that the star
nearest to his throne was called Kolob, and
governed all those that belong to the same or-
der as this earth, and that one revolution was a
day unto the Lord, it being one thousand of
our years.
	"Then I, Abraham, talked with the Lord
face to face as one man talketh to another, and
He told me of the works which his hands had
made."
	He also instructed Moses, and Moses "cast
his eyes and beheld the earth, even all the face
of it, there was not a particle of which he did
not behold, descrying it by the Spirit of God.
And he beheld also the inhabitants thereof,
and there was not a soul which he beheld not,
and he discerned them by the Spirit of God;
and their numbers were great, even number-
less as the sands upon the sea shore. And he
beheld many lands; and each land was called
earth, and there were inhabitants on the face
thereof."
	God also told him that he had created worlds
without number and that "the heavens they
are many, and they cannot be numbered unto
man, but they are numbered unto me, for they
are mine, and as one earth shall pass away,
and the heavens thereof, even so shall another
come; and there is no end to my works."
	The New Testament informs us that Paul
was caught up into the third heaven. Joseph
Smith was also shown many great things, and
much was revealed unto him. From different
writings we learn that God has communicated
and shown a great deal to man, and that al-
though it is revelation it is not all of a strict-
ly religious nature, and is not essential to eter-
nal salvation as we generally accept the term.
It is certainly an easy way of gaining knowl-
edge, everything shown is perfectly under-
stood, there is no conjecture or uncertainty
about it.
	From the foregoing and our surroundings
we see that science and religion do not con-
flict, that God is the Author of both, and that
it makes no difference whether a given fact is
discovered by innate intelligence or communi-
cated by revelation, it is the same unalterable
truth, and came from the same source, for if
God had not given the intelligence man could
not have found it out.	ANN FELLOWS.


RIDICULE.

	Ridicule is a weapon that is often used with
success, when everything else fails, in defeating
the plans and purposes of people whose views
are different from those of the majority. Many
who are brave in other respects, and really
have a desire to do right, will give way and


go as others go, do as others do, often against
their own feelings and judgment, simply be-
cause they cannot stand to be ridiculed and
laughed at.
	They will stand persuasion, or even threats,
firmly; but let their friends, especially those
most loved, laugh and sneer at them, and they
will give way directly, as it produces a feeling
that nothing else does, and in persons who are
very sensitive it causes them a great deal of
suffering.
	It has always been the case, and I suppose
always will be as long as we are in this mortal
state, that some people are disposed to sneer
and make all manner of sarcastic remarks to
or about those, who, as they term it, are "too
religious," or are trying to do right. I would
ask, what is true religion? It is simply doing
right. But you say there are different ideas
of right and wrong; what you think is right
another may think wrong. True religion
teaches us to treat others as we would like to
be treated. To be upright and honest in all
that we say and do. Act on the square in all
things. Treat every one with respect. Good,
moral people who value a good character, but
do not claim any religion observe these princi-
ples, then how much more should we who have
had the privilege of being born and raised in
the Church of Christ, born heirs to the bles-
sings of the everlasting covenant, observe
these laws. We do not appreciate the privi-
leges we have. We do not possess the Spirit
of God when we do not try to live these princi-
ples, and scoff at those who do try. It is very
mean of a person to make no effort himself to
perform any duty, but will sneer at those who
do. Girls, let us try to perform our duties.
Be brave and strong in the cause of right;
have backbone enough to face all that is said
against us, or our religion. Strive to under-
stand its principles; the more you learn of it
the better it is. It is worth everything to us.
							MATTIE.
	Manuscript paper, Young Ladies' Journal,
Nephi, Utah.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	The highest form of Christian life is self-de-
nial, for the good of others.—Dr. E. A Park.
	Love's sweetest meanings are unspoken; the
full heart knows no rhetoric of words.—Boree.
	The years write their record on human
hearts, as they do on trees, in hidden, inner
circles of growth which no eye can see.—Saxe
Holm.
	True friendship, grounded on the covenant
of the Lord, possesses inconceivable force. It
is stronger than death, and able to silence the
voice of emulation, ambition, self-love, and
even relative affection.—T. Scott.
	A politician thinks of the next election; a
statesman of the next generation; a politician
looks for the success of his party; a statesman
for that of his country. The statesman wishes
to steer, while the politician is satisfied to
drift.—James Freeman Clarke.
	Without earnestness no man is ever great, or
does really great things. He may be the
cleverest of men; he may be brilliant, enter-
taining, popular; but he will want weight. No
soul-moving picture was ever painted that had
not in its depth a shadow.—Peter Bayne.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

SCENES IN NAUVOO, AND INCIDENTS
FROM H. C. KIMBALL'S JOURNAL.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	"Monday, 29th. Several men presented
themselves at the dwelling of President George
Miller this morning, some came into the house
and enquired for him while others remained
outside. It was suspected that they were after
him with a writ, and although President Miller
was present and before them all the time, no
one knew him; neither did any of the breth-
ren, several of whom were present, seem to
know where he was, and the suspicious indi-
viduals soon left. At two o'clock word was
brought that a company of soldiers were in
from Carthage. They proved to be four dra-
goons. They came up the hill; went around by
the east end and north side of the Temple, out
of the north gate and drew up in front of
President George Miller's."
	An alarm was raised that the troops were
endeavoring to get into the Temple, and Presi-
dent Young ordered the lights taken out of the
stair case, but they said they were searching
for hogs, said to have been stolen from Mr.
Hibbard.	*	*	After prayer
was over	*	*	President Young and
Elder Kimball went into the tower,	*	*
spent half an hour and returned—spent near-
ly an hour reading Captain Freemont's narra-
tive, then retired for the night."
	"Tuesday, 30th. Almon W. Babbit came
in at half past eleven and reported that the
marshal had left Carthage for Springfield, and
there would be no more danger from writs.
P. P. Pratt has been engaged part of the time
in forming a schedule for a pioneer company
of 1000 men to precede the body of emigrants,
to find a proper location, and to put in seed
early in the summer.	*	*	*
	"The labors of the day having been brought
to a close at so early an hour (half past eight)
it was thought proper to have a little season of
recreation; accordingly, Brother Hans Hanson
was invited to produce hisviolin. He did so, and
played several lively airs; several excellent
songs were sung, in which several of the breth-
ren and sisters joined. The "Upper California"
was sung by Erastus Snow; after which Sister
Whitney, being invited by President Young,
stood up, and invoking the gift of tongues,
sang one of the most beautiful songs in
tongues that was ever heard. The interpreta-
tion was given by her husband, Bishop Whit-
ney. It related to our efforts to build this
house, and to the privilege we now have of
meeting together in it—of our departure
shortly to the country of the Lamanites, and
their rejoicing when they hear the Gospel, and
of the ingathering of Israel. Altogether it
was one of the most touching and beautiful ex-
hibitions of the power of the spirit in the gift
of tongues, which was ever witnessed, (so it
appeared to the writer of this, William Clay-
ton). After a little conversation of a general
nature the exercises of the evening were closed
by prayer by President B. Young."	*	*
	December 31st, he wrote, "President Young
and Elder Kimball are superintending in the
operations of the day—examining maps with
reference to selecting a location for the Saints
west of the Rocky Mountains, and reading the
various works which have been written and
published by travelers in those regions."	*	*
At six o'clock the High council, the High
Priests and the Seventies met together for
prayer, each quorum by itself, and all dressed
in the	*	*	holy order of the
priesthood. Thus ended the year 1845, in the
Temple of our God."
	January 1st, 1846. Thursday. "This day
is the first of another year—the morning is
rainy, the ground very soft, and the mud very
deep. A heavy mist rests on the low ground

[Column 2]

under the bluffs; the sunlight is very dim be-
ing nearly shut out by the dark, heavy clouds,
which overspread the whole face of the sky,
and everything around wears a gloomy and
dismal aspect—but notwithstanding the un-
favorable appearance of things the brethren
and sisters are assembling together in the
house of the Lord to receive their endowments."
Thus wrote William Clayton; he also says—
"The plasterers have commenced this morning
to plaster the arched ceiling of the lower hall
of the Temple; the floor is laid, the frame work
of the pulpits and surrounding seats for the
choir and band are put up, and the work of
fitting the room for dedication and holding
meetings therein progresses very fast."
	New Year's evening I, with quite a number
of young friends, had the privilege of receiv-
ing the holy ordinances; and William Clayton
wrote the following:
	"After a little time had elapsed the whole
company were assembled together in the east
room; in number about fifty, and all knelt
down upon the carpet and united with H. C.
Kimball in thanksgiving to God for His great
mercy and goodness to us in granting us this
opportunity of meeting together in the house
of the Lord, and in prayer to Him that He
would continue to bless us, that He would bless
President Brigham Young with health and
wisdom, that he might be able to lead and di-
rect this people, and that the same blessings
might be extended to all his brethren of the
Twelve, and on the Saints, and that God
would bless our wives and give unto them
strength of body, that they might live and ad-
minister to the servants of God, that they
might see three score years and ten, and behold
the Kingdom of God established in the earth,
and that we might be enabled to continue in
Nauvoo in peace until all the faithful Saints
had received their endowments, and that when
the time to leave here should arrive that we
might have those things that we need to enable
us to go away in comfort—that to this end our
possessions might look good to those who are
round about us, that they may buy them and
pay us gold and silver and snch things as we
may need; also that God would bless our chil-
dren and all things that pertain to us, and dedi-
cating the whole company to God, gave Him
the glory through our Lord Jesus Christ.
Amen."
	Wm. G. Young and Adelia C. Clark were
then married by President Brigham Young;
his nephew, Brigham H. Young, and Sidenia O.
Clark officiated as groomsman and bridesmaid.
After asking them repeatedly if it was the un-
derstanding that they were to be married for
time and for eternity, and receiving an answer
in the affirmative, he then asked Hazen Kim-
ball and his wife (the latter being a sister of
the bride) if the bride's parents understood
their intentions and approved of them; and re-
ceived satisfactory answers. After the cere-
mony was over he pronounced various bless-
ings upon them. The clerk wrote the follow-
ing: "Two or three songs were sung, and Presi-
dent Young invited the company to supper,
which had been prepared. Bishop Whitney
and wife led the way, and were followed by
about half the company; the table not being
extensive enough to accomodate more. Presi-
dent Young said we could worship God in the
dance as well as in other ways, but strongly
impressed upon the minds of those present the
impropriety of mingling again with the wicked
after having come in here, and taken upon
them the covenants which they had. He spoke
pointedly to his daughter Vilate, and told her
that if she should do so after this she might
expect to meet the frown of a father.	*	*
He was followed by L. R. Foster, who concur-
red in the remarks of President Young, and
said he would like to have the question put,
that it might be known how many of those

[Column 3]

present were willing to make a covenant, etc.
Elder H. C. Kimball said, before the question
was put he wished to say a few words—He felt
thankful that President Young had touched
this subject, and also that we had this oppor-
tunity of meeting together in this manner;
said that those who were parents had become
responsible for the conduct of their children,
and for his part he should not be willing that
his children should meet with the wicked.	*
He said to his own children, that they had
covenanted here this evening that they would
receive the instructions, and listen to the coun-
sel of their father and mother, and he hoped
they would rememeber it.	*	*	*
Erastus Snow expressed his feelings in a few
words.	*	*	The President
then invited all those who were willing to cov-
enant that they would keep themselves from
mingling with the wicked to rise upon their
feet; whereupon all rose up.	*	*	*
Hans C. Hanson, a Dane, inquired if it would
be permitted for him to speak a few words,
and receiving an approving nod from the Presi-
dent, said he had been in the habit of playing
the fiddle for mixed companies among the
wicked, and that in such companies he had
seen very ungodly conduct, that on a certain
occasion he played for some who were called
Saints, but they went down to a steam boat and
got about twenty-five passengers to join them;
and, said he, they wanted to get away all
our girls—and there was very bad talk there;
when he saw the Saints enjoying themselves in
the dance as they did here, he made a coven-
ant with himself, that he would no more play
the fiddle for the wicked, but that the Saints
should have the use of his fiddle, and, that
when he went on a mission, he would leave it
with the Saints, and asked them if they would
take care of it. They answered, "Yes."
	The Spirit of God was present, and the spirit
of meekness, humility, and gratitude to God
for the great privileges we enjoy, so that tears
came into the eyes of many of those present.
Love and union, peace and harmony, pervaded.
The utmost decorum was observed; not a loud
laugh nor a rude jest saluted the ear.	*	*
	The persons present on this occasion were as
follows: President Yonng, his wife, and
daughter Vilate, and sons, Joseph and Brig-
ham, two little girls and infant; Elder H. C.
Kimball and his wife Vilate, his son William
H., with wife, and his daughter, Helen Mar
Kimball; John Young and Lorenzo Young
and his wife, Persis, their son William G., the
bridegroom, Phineas H. Young and his son
Brigham H. Young, N. K. Whitney and wife,
Horace H. and Orson K. Whitney, John Whit-
ney, Amasa Lyman and his wife, Eliza M. Par-
tridge, Caroline E. Partridge, Lucy A. Seely,
Clarissa C. Decker, Joseph C. Kingsbury,
Sarah Ann Kingsbury, Helen Jeanette Murry,
Mary Houston, Sidenia O. Clark, Adelia C.
Clark, Hazen Kimball and wife, Lorenzo Snow,
Eliza R. Snow and Mary Smith."
	When the President told us at about half
past two oclock that it was time to seek repose,
the sisters retired to the side rooms, and the
brethren stretching themselves upon the floor
or on the sofas—all were soon in the embraces of
"tired nature's sweet restorer, balmy sleep,"
with the exception of the bridegroom and bride,
and a few of their friends, who, being unable
to close their eyes in sleep from the abundance
of their joy, passed the short hours of the
morning in agreeable conversation in the
office.
	To be Continued.


Unction is the tongue of fire, and is just the
very gift which no universities, no degrees, no
amount of learning or critical attainment, no
cultivation of the science of belles-lettres or rhe-
toric or elocution can bestow.—E. Paxton Hood.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THANKSGIVING.

My God, to thee a grateful heart I raise,
Oh listen to my prayer of thanks and praise,
For all thy mercies and thy love to me,
Thy boundless love, so wide, so deep, so free.

I thank thee for this life, e'en with its care,
And for the power another's grief to share,
To cheer the weary, help the fainting stand,
Who find so much of earth a desert land.

I thank thee for the blessed gift of sight
To gaze upon thy works so grand and bright,
And on man's works, who fain would rival Thee-
And may he not, since he a God may be?

I thank thee, too, for all the senses five,
Bereft of any were but part alive;
To revel in the harmony of blissful sound,
Oh joy unspeakable therein is found.

More keenly prized by those who for a time,
Though brief it be, have lost this gift divine
And feared with anguish far too deep to tell
A silent world, wherein they have to dwell.

And for the blessing great to interchange
Thoughts and ideas boundless in their range,
All, all our faculties, more precious far
Than golden store, or fame's bright glittering star.

And, too, I thank thee for that other one
We may call sense, which Saints alone have won.
That touches with a magic wand the other five,
Making them all more intensely alive.

For friends and kindred and the Gospel light,
Whose beams can penetrate the darkest night;
For this dear mountain home and sparkling rill,
The peace and plenty which these valleys fill.

For watchmen who on Zion's towers stand
To guard the flock from wolves that prowl the land,
And once again for life, its joy and care,
And low on bended knee for the sweet hour of prayer.

And for thy spirit to the suppliant given,
The ray of light that guides us back to heaven;
Thy wandering children, travel-stained and sore,
Oh. meet them there when this brief life is o'er.—HOPE.


[Column 1]

﻿AUTO-BIOGRAPHY.

	I am the daughter of Oliver Granger, and
Lydia Dibble Granger, was born Dec. 29, 1818,
in the town of Phelps, Ontario Co., New York.
Of my father and mother's eight children only
myself and two younger brothers, (Lafayette
and Farley) remain. My father, Oliver Gran-
ger, had an interesting experience in connection
with the coming forth of the Book of Mormon.
He obtained the book a few months after its pub-
lication, and while in the city of New York at
Prof. Mott's eye infirmary, he had a "heavenly
vision." My father was told by a personage who
said his name was Moroni that the Book of Mor-
mon, about which his mind was exercised, was
a true record of great worth, and Moroni in-
structed him (my father) to testify of its truth
and that he should hereafter be ordained to
preach the everlasting Gospel to the children of
men. Moroni instructed my father to kneel and
pray; Moroni and another personage knelt with
him by the bedside. Moroni repeated words
and instructed my father to repeat after him.
Moroni then stepped behind my father, who
was still kneeling, and drew his finger over the
three back seams of my father's coat (which
my father felt very preceptiably) and said, "A
time will come when the Saints will wear gar-
ments made without seam."
	Moroni told him (my father) that he might
ask for what he most desired and it would be
granted. He asked for an evidence by which
he might know when he was approved of God.
The evidence, or sign, was given and remained
with him until his dying hour, being more
particularly manifest when engaged in prayer
and meditation. I love the memory of my father.
He died in Kirtland, Ohio, August, 1843, aged 47.
	I was married in Kirtland, Geauga Co.,
Ohio, by Warren Cowdery Esq., September
22nd, 1840, to Hiram Kimball, eldest son of
Phineas and Abigail Kimball, of West Fairley,
Orange Co., Vermont. My parents had pre-

[Column 2]

viously spent a year in Nauvoo, Hancock Co.,
Illinois; their present stay in Ohio was consid-
ered only temporary (my father sickened and
died there the next year). I returned with
my husband to his home in Nauvoo, Ill.,
three weeks after my marriage. We boarded
six months in the family of Dr. Frederic Wil-
liams, then went to housekeeping. My eldest
son was born in Nauvoo, Hancock Co., Ill.,
November 22nd, 1841; when the babe was
three days old a little incident occurred which
I will mention. The walls of the Nauvoo Temple
were about three feet above the foundation. The
Church was in need of help to assist in raising
the Temple walls. I belonged to the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; my husband
did not belong to the Church at that time. I
wished to help on the Temple, but did not like
to ask my husband (who owned considerable
property) to help for my sake.
	My husband came to my bedside, and as he
was admiring our three days old darling I
said, "What is the boy worth?" He replied, "O
I don't know, he is worth a great deal." I said,
"Is he worth a thousand dollars?" The reply
was "Yes, more than that if he lives and does
well." I said, "Half of him is mine, is it not?"
"Yes, I suppose so." "Then I have something
to help on the Temple." (pleasantly) "You
have?" "Yes, and I think of turning my share
right in as tithing." "Well, I'll think about that."
	Soon after the above conversation Mr. Kim-
ball met the Prophet of Joseph Smith, President
of the Church, and said, "Sarah has got a
little the advantage of me this time, she pro-
poses to turn out the boy as church property."
President Smith seemed pleased with the joke,
and said, "I accept all such donations, and
from this day the boy shall stand recorded,
church property," then turning to Willard
Richards, his secretary, he said, "Make a rec-
ord of this; and you are my witness." Joseph
Smith then said, "Major, (Mr. Kimball was
major in the Nauvoo Legion) you now have
the privilege of paying $500 and retaining
possession, or receiving $500 and giving pos-
session." Mr. Kimball asked if city property
was good currency. President Smith replied
that it was. Then said Mr. Kimball, "How
will the reserve block north of the Temple
suit?" President Smith replied, "It is just what
we want." The deed was soon made out and
transfered in due form.
	President Smith said to me, "You have con-
secrated your first born son, for this you are
blessed of the Lord. I bless you in the name
of the Lord God of Abraham of Isaac and
of Jacob. And I seal upon you all the bless-
ings that pertain to the faithful. Your name
shall be handed down in honorable remem-
brance from generation to generation.
	"Your son shall live and be a blessing to
you in time and an honor and glory to you
throughout the endless eternities (changes) to
come. He shall be girded about with right-
eousness and bear the helmet and the breast-
plate of war. You shall be a blessing to your
companion and the honored mother of a noble
posterity. You shall stand as a savior to your
father's house, and receive an everlasting sal-
vation, which I seal upon you by the gift of
revelation and by virtue and authority of the
Holy Priesthood vested in me, in the name of
Jesus Christ."
	Early in the year 1842 Joseph Smith taught
me the principle of marriage for eternity, and
the doctrine of plural marriage. He said that in
teaching this he realized that he jeopardized
his life; but God had revealed it to him many
years before as a privilege with blessing, now
God had revealed it again and instructed him
to teach it with commandment, as the church
could travel (progress) no farther without the
introduction of this principle. I asked him to
teach it to some one else. He looked at me
reprovingly, and said, "Will you tell me who

[Column 3]

to teach it to? God requires me to teach it to
you, and leave you with the reponsibility of
believing or disbelieving. He said, "I will not
cease to pray for you, and if you will seek un-
to God in prayer you will not be led into
temptation."
	In the summer of 1843, a maiden lady (Miss
Cooke) was seamstress for me and the subject
of combining our efforts for assisting the Tem-
ple hands came up in conversation. She de-
sired to be helpful, but had no means to fur-
nish. I told her I would furnish material if
she would make some shirts for the workmen.
It was then snggested that some of our neigh-
bors might wish to combine means and efforts
with ours, and we decided to invite a few to
come and consult with us on the subject of
forming a Ladies' Society. The neighboring
sisters met in my parlor and decided to organ-
ize. I was delegated to call on Sister Eliza R.
Snow and ask her to write for us a Constitution
and By-laws, and submit them to President
Joseph Smith prior to our next Thursday's
meeting. She cheerfully responded and when
she read them to him he replied that the Con-
stitution and By-laws were the best he had
ever seen. "But," he said, "this is not what
you want. Tell the sisters their offering is ac-
cepted of the Lord, and he has something
better for them than a written Constitution.
I invite them all to meet with me and a few of
the brethren in the Masonic Hall over my
store next Thursday afternoon, and I will or-
ganize the women under the priesthood after
the pattern of the priesthood." He further
said, "The Church was never perfectly organ-
ized until the women were thus organized."
He wished to have Sister Emma Smith elected
to preside in fulfillment of the revelation which
called her an Elect Lady.
	In the wanderings and persecutions of the
Church I have participated, and in the blessings,
endowments, and holy anointings and precious
promises that I have received. To sorrow I
have not been a stranger; but I only write this
short sketch to instruct and happify, so I will
skip to Salt Lake City, September, 1851, with
my two sons, Hiram and Oliver, my widowed
mother, Lydia Dibble Granger, Anna Rob-
bins, a girl that lived with me nine years
and married my youngest brother, and my
two brothers, Lafayette and Farley B. Gran-
ger. My husband was detained in New York
City, aud had become financially much embar-
rassed. The next year he came to me finan-
cially ruined and broken in health.
	I engaged in school teaching in the 14th
Ward to sustain and educate my family. My
salary was only $25.00 per month, but that
was much to us at that time.
	April 1st, 1854, my youngest son was born.
I discontinued school three months, then opened
school in my home. I taught eight years.
	I should have remarked that on arriving
here I sold our fit out (team, etc.) for a com-
fortable little home; this I have always con-
sidered providential. The Indian agent gave
me a nine years old wild Indian girl, whom I
educated and raised. She died at nineteen.
I named her Kate.
	My mother, who had lived with me 20
years, died in 1861, aged 73.
	My husband was drowned March 1st, 1863,
in the Pacific Ocean by the wreck of the steamer
Ida Hancock, off the coast of San Pedro, on
his way to the Sandwich Islands; aged 62.
	I was elected President of the 17th Ward
Relief Society, February 7th, 1857.
	In December, 1865, a little girl was brought
to me whom I adopted.
	November 13, 1868, a silver trowel and mallet
were furnished me and, assisted by a master
mason and surrounded by an assemblage of peo-
ple, I had the honor of laying the corner stone
of the first Relief Society uilding erected in this
dispensation.	SARAH M. KIMBALL.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, . . Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	Salt Lake City Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, SEPTEMBER 1, 1883.


[Column 1]
A CHANGE INDEED.

	What a change has come to this once quiet,
peaceful and orderly city. The citizens were
free and safe to walk the streets by day or by
night without fear or molestation or even an-
noyance. There were no saloons, no gambling
dens, no houses of infamy. All these have
come through the influences of the new civila-
tion, some of those who are so anxious to solve
the "Mormon Problem" have introduced into
our midst. They have succeeded in throwing
temptation to sin aud evil allurements in the
path of the unwary, and making slippery places
that they might fall. The Scripture says, "Woe
to the workers of iniquity," and woe to him
that rejoices in iniquity! Therefore let them
take heed that exalt in the downfall of any,
and more especially those that have said, "Let
us look upon Zion that she may be defiled." If
they have not actually used this quotation from
Holy Writ their words have been so similar
that it could not be mistaken for the fulfilment
of the prophecy of the ancient prophet of God,
who, looking down the long period of time to
the present, foresaw what would actually trans-
pire in the last days.
	A wicked and soul destroying influence has
taken firm hold of some of the individuals that
make up the population of our beautiful city,
and the power of evil has developed in a discord-
ant element, and so far transgressed the laws of
society and humanity as to stoop to a species of
barbarianism, as evinced in the terrible death of
Bishop Burt, and the summary vengence
wreaked upon the poor, miserable, cowardly as-
sassin. It is enough to make those who knew
this city as it once was in its quiet beauty and
peacefulness exclaim, "How has all this change
been wrought, and what does it portend?" We
who came here for the purpose of worshiping
God according to the dictates of our own con-
sciences, and fully anticipated the establishment
of a glorious Zion, can scaacely help a sort of
righteous indignation of things as they exist at
the present time. The Saints, were they per-
mitted to bear undisputed rule, would have
order in their ranks. There would not be the
slightest indication of this spirit of turbulence
and insubordination were "the people" the orig-
inal landowners to have complete control. As
the matter stands they are for the time being
compelled to submit to the confusion conse-
quent upon the disregard of law and authority,
because forsooth, "The powers that be" have
for the time being obtained such headway that
an exceedingly wise and straight forward course
must be pursued to overcome the reckless dar-
ing of unprincipled persons, who have no re-
gard for law, order, nor restraint of unholy and
wicked impulses.
	Such indeed are dangerous elements in a com-

[Column 2]
munity, whether they are men or women. The
time was when one could walk the street at any
hour of the night alone, without the least pro-
tection, save a conscience void of offence, and
would be as safe as in the shelter of home.
People seldom thought of locks or bolts upon
their doors, and could enjoy the free air af hea-
ven without so much of the fumes of tobacco or
whiskey. The name of God was not profaned
upon the streets, and no little boys or loafers
loitered around the street corners, making the
atmosphere vile with their foul language and
smoke.
	How beautiful, how serene and restful was
this city of the Saints, but now, O, how
changed!
	Why should there be such resistance to au-
thority? Simply because the local offices are in
the hands of the original people, "the
old settlers." A few men and women
have come into our midst and set up a cry
against the power of the "Mormon" Church,
that under the rule of "Mormons" men are not
free and independent beings; as though the civil
and municipal authorities were not just as faith-
ful administrators of the laws of the Territory
and city, and under the jurisdiction of the courts,
as if they were not members of that religious
body. This spirit of defiance has sprung up
and been nourished by a class of men anxious
to assume control of the affairs of the Territory,
its counties and cities, and even the consciences
of a people who made the country habitable for
them. They intend to get possession of every
place and position that affords any revenue, and
rule with a rod of iron. Talk of freedom, what
freedom would they give to the bone and sinew
of the country, the farmers, the mechanic; how
do they boast in public and in private. Talk of
protection, such protection as the wolf gives the
lamb. Have we eyes to see, ears to hear, hearts
to understand? then we know just what to ex-
pect from those boasters about freedom and in-
dependence and individuality.
	Take away from Salt Lake City the saloons
and such resorts as a certain class of people
claim to be an actual necessity, and they could
not live here, unless indeed they had enough
wealth to have a wine cellar of their own like
the old knights and barons of feudal times. Then
we might look for the peace and quietude once
enjoyed here by those who had come far and en-
dured so much privation for the sake of a resting
place even in the wilderness.
	Perhaps the dreadful occurrences of last week
may be a lesson to those who encourage a bru-
tal element instead of obedience to law. Gov-
ernments must exist, and the people must sub-
mit to be governed. Everybody is free to do
right under the law of the land, and if they do
wrong they must abide by the consequences of
that wrong, especially if it is an infringement
upon others. Generally those who make so
much ado a[-]out freedom are the class who tread
on the ri[---] of others, who want no law but
their owu lawlessness, and who have no regard
for law, human or divine. It is sincerely to be
hoped that the authorities of this city will in-
crease the police force, and that some of the nui-
sances upon our streets may soon be abated.
Who are these loafers who congregate upon the
corners of the streets and around the entrances
of the saloons? Idle, depraved and vile? Are
they members of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints? No, indeed, if they ever
were they have lost the faith. No man living
in the line of his duty would be seen in such a
place. The principles of this Church teach so-
berness, industry, diligence in good works, de-
corum and all that will elevate and purify the
life and character of men and women. The out-
side element in this community know this is

[Column 3]
true, but it does not suit their purpose to say so.
They represent this people as opposed to good
government, and especially to the control of the
Federal officers of the United States. Nothing
could be more unjust. This people have sub-
mitted to indignities heaped upon them on ac-
count of misrepresentations of this nature, hop-
ing and looking forward for a time when the
results of their integrity would be apparent,
when, after long waiting, the truth would at
last dawn upon the officers of this great Re-
public that "Mormons" were good citizens; law-
abiding, and ready to sustain and maintain the
principles incuicated in the Constitution and
Declaration of Independence.
	The few men and women who are so active-
ly engaged in misrepresenting the "Mormon"
people to the government, and by the means
of the pulpit and the press, will not succeed in
their base and wicked schemes, however shrewd
and far-seeing they may be. Mormonism or its
principles and people will outlive all such ene-
mies, and triumph over them. It is not an in-
vention of man, but the work of God begun on
the earth. "Mormon" men and women are not
working for individual advancement and ag-
grandizement, they are working in a higher
cause and for a more laudable interest than
actuates those who are living only for this
world and its vain ambitions.
	Those who think that Mormonism can be
overthrown by introducing the allurements,
vanities and temptations of the world will find
themselves terribly mistaken. A few may be
influenced who are weak minded, but no one
sound in principle, and living in the light of
the Gospel will be thus led astray. But woe be
to those who seek to bring disgrace and evil up-
on the Saints.
	To those who spread snares for the weak and
unsuspecting, and seek to decoy from the paths
of virtue and rectitude the young and the igno-
rant, no blessing can follow such a course. The
spirit of peace is that which should be sought,
and not to stir up strife and discord, either in
public or private. It is better to suffer wrong
than to do wrong; and how essential it is to con-
trol the temper and the tongue; and more than
this even to control the appetite. How much
misery and suffering is produced by the use of
alcohol. No tongue can tell the tale. It is im-
possible. And to think that this once fair and
happy city should be cursed with dram shops
and places of imfamy seems almost incredible
to one acquainted with the place from the be-
ginning, and with the record of the people and
the contempt in which they hold all such vile
and wicked practices. One cannot wonder that
the noble women of the Temperance Union on
their bended knees and with tears streaming
from their eyes entreated the saloon keepers to
close their doors that their husbands, brothers
and sons might be saved from the demon strong
drink. And may the time hasten on when
popular opinion may be so much against these
nefarious practices, these houses that lead down
to perdition, that the cities and towns of our
glorious land may be freed from the pollution
that springs from these prolific sources of evil,
that are at the present time devastating human
life and happiness more rapidly than anything
else. And here in Zion whose gates should be
closed against all impure and unholy influences,
the Saints should set their faces as flint against
all tendencies to the growth of evil, that she
might indeed be desirable and fair to look upon,
and the wonder and admiration of the world.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	WE had quite an interesting interview with
Mrs. Ada H. Kepley, attorney at law and


notary public, from Effingham, Ill. She was
on her way to San Francisco with her husband,
Sir, H. S. Kepley. The lady is one who has done a
vast amount of political work in a womanly
way, and is still activly engaged in seeking to
better the condition of women under the law in
her own state as well as elsewhere, and has
good hopes of equality before the law for men
and women in the near future. She is very no-
ble in appearance and fluent in speech, is cer-
tainly a woman of strong character, and well
calculated to to advance in the profession she
has chosen. She was quite free from prejudice,
and seemed to comprehend the situation into
which the Edmund's law has thrown this
people better than most strangers who visit
us.
	"THE Myth of the Manuscript Found"—is
the title of the last of the "Faith Promoting
Series," and is a work of real merit. It is by
Elder George Reynolds, and the author has
done himself great credit in collecting such im-
portant facts and compiling them so carefully
and withal connecting them together in such
an orderly and interesting manner as to attract
and keep the attention of the reader constantly
fastened upon the subject. It is a book of incal-
culable value, and must upon its merits have a
wide circulation, both in the Church and among
those who are not Latter-day Saints.
	The Book of Mormon and the Spaulding
Story have been a theme of discussion and spec-
ulation for over forty years, and Brother Rey-
nold's book throws more light on the matter
than has ever been brought to bear directly up-
on it. There is so much in the work to admire
as well as to interest, that it would seem almost
indispensable even in the home library. One
might read it over and over again with benefit
to himself. It gives positive facts and actual
testimonies instead of queries and assertions.
Be sure and buy it. Price 25 cents. For sale at
Juvenile Instructor Office, also at J. H. Parry's
book store, next door to Hardy Bros. and Bur-
ton's on Main Street, S. L. City.
	The Conference of Relief Society of this
Stake will be held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms in this city, on Friday, the 21st inst,
commencing at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. Secretaries
should forward their reports as early as possible
to Mrs. E. Howard, care WOMAN'S EXPONENT-
Every Society in the county should be repre-
sented either by the President or one of her
Counselors, or secretary. As it is expected some
business pertaining to the interest of the Socie-
ty will be transacted it is hoped all the members
will attend who can make it convenient. Bish-
ops and brethren of the priesthood are cordially
invited to be present.
	On Saturday morning the Primary Associa-
tions of the Stake will convene in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall. It is urgently desired
by the President, Mrs. Ellen C. Clawson, that
there should be a good attendance of the child-
ren from the various wards in the county as
well as a good representation of officers. The
Primary fair is in progress and ought to be made
a grand success. There is nothing stimulates
the energies of the little folks more than there
FAIRS. Be sure and forward reports to Mrs.
Vilate Young, the Secreary of P. A., Salt Lake
County.
	The Y. L. M. I. A. will hold their Conference
in the afternoon of Saturday, 23nd inst., com-
mencing at 2 p.m. The President, Mrs. Mary
A. Freeze, urgently requests the members as
well as the officers to be present, that they may
receive the benefit of the instructions given.
Send reports to Mrs. Augusta J. Crocheron, P.
O. Box 419, S. L. City, Utah.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
[FOR THE EXPONENT.]
CONSCIENCE: WHAT IS IT?

	Conscience has been variously defined, and
differently estimated. By some it has been des-
ignated, "The only correct rule of action"—by
others, "An innate power or faculty implanted
in our natures, independent of outward circum-
stances or surroundings." It has also been
termed "the highest authority to which one
can appeal."
	It seems to me that it would be difficult to
make more egregious mistakes. Admitting con-
science to be the test between right and wrong,
whose conscience would be the one by which
decisions should be made? People's consciences
vary nearly, if not quite as much, as the facial
outlines. What a motley variety of standards
of right and wrong! But, says one, God has
implanted the conscience in our organizations
for our guide.
	If God made the conscience why did He not
make all consciences alike? While A's con-
science justifies him in pursuing one course, B's
justifies him in pursuing an entirely opposite
one. For instance, I have been intimately ac-
quainted with a man whose conscience dictated
him to so strictly observe the Sabbathic law that
he refused to partake of food that was cooked on
Sunday; and I have been intimately acquainted
with other men whose consciences varied so
widely from that, that their housekeepers,
whether wives or servants, instead of the privi-
lege of attending meeting and partaking of the
sacrament on the Sabbath, were required to stay
at home and roast beef, make puddings, etc.,
that when those conscience men returned from
meeting they could regale their appetites with a
smoking, luscious dinner. Such probably had
been the custom of their ancestry.
	The wild, roving Indian's conscience justifies
him in stealing whenever he does it unde-
tected—the sin with him consists in not being
shrewd enough to evade discovery, but not so
with the educated one. In our everyday life
how frequently we find persons feeling fully jus-
tified in performing acts which others could not
do without self-condemnation. Why this dif-
ference, if conscience is an unerring dictator?
	Even here, with the Latter-day Saints, who
profess "one Lord, one faith, one baptism," are
all consciences alike? Far from it. We have
been differently educated, and early impressions
are not readily erased.
	God has implanted in the human organiza-
tion the germ of every faculty necessary for a
perfected glorified being; and these germs are
all developed or undeveloped according to cir-
cumstances.
	But, says one, can persons do wrong when do-
ing what conscience dictates? Yes, but at the
same time, they cannot act in opposition to
conscience and do right, for the plain reason
that they would be acting dishonestly with
themselves. Everyone, to be honest, must do
as his or her conscience dictates; but that is not
saying that the act in itself is right; this de-
pends upon the correctness of the standard by
which the germ of conscience is developed or
educated.
	There is one, and only one, perfect standard,
and that is the fulness of the Gospel, as taught
by Christ and His ancient apostles, and re.
vealed in this dispensation. The Latter-day
Saints have this perfect standard.
	The question may be asked why such a varie-
ty exists among them. The Saints have been
gathered from all countries—subject in their
training to almost every variety of circum-
stance; and habits of mind as well as those of
manners, are not readily exchanged. And al
though a perfect law, or system may require
but little time for its enunciation; facts show

[Column 2]
that more than a generation may be necessary
to mould a people by that law or system. Un-
der existing circumstances—taking into con-
sideration our imperfect education, and as Saints
of God, having possession of the Gospel; instead
of appealing to conscience as a reliable criterion,
it should be, "to the law and to the testi-
mony."
	It is presumable that, as soon as the Latter-
day Saints fully comprehend, adapt and educate
every faculty precisely in accordance with this
perfect system of faith and practice, they will
"see eye to eye" in all things, and become "one,
even as the Father and Son are on," and not
until then. E. R. S. S.
	Salt Lake City, Aug., 1883.


﻿THE DICKINSON REUNION

	ORANGE, MASS., Aug. 11, 1883.
MY OWN DEAR MOTHER:
	Here we are in your "dear old New England,"
that we have heard so much about all our lives.
*	*	*	*	*	*	*
	I went to the Dickinson meeting at Amherst
all alone, don't you think I was brave? I prayed
that I might be directed just what to do and
where to go, and I know that I was. Arriving
at the Amherst Depot there was a perfect jam,
but I looked out for a buss, and as it drove to the
hotel and all the others got out I followed suit.
I had no idea what to do next, but I saw two
real nice looking ladies standing near, and I
plucked up courage to go up and introduce my-
self; they were, as you may suppose, Dick-
insons ladies come to attend the meeting.
I do not know how one so dindent as I,
and timid in society, could do such a thing,
but I did. When they knew I was from Salt
Lake, which fact I lost no time in telling them,
I did not need to say anything more. I went up
stairs with them, and was introduced to Dickin-
son after Dickinson, hundreds of them, it seemed
to me. They wore all very nice people, and as
polite and kind as could be. We soon started
for College Hall.
	There were between two and three hundred
members gathered, and they kept coming in for
some time after. The President of the day, M. F.
Dickinson, Jr. of Boston, was a very fine looking
man, and presided with a great deal of ease and
dignity. Uncle has sent you the papers giving
you all the particulars much better than I can.
There were a great many vice presidents, a sec-
retary and recording secretary. In fact it was
quite an elaborate affair, and everything was in
perfect order.
	Prayer was offered by Rev. Leigh R. Dickin-
son, of Grace Church, at Great Bend, Pa., and
then an address of welcome was delivered by
the President of the day. The address was ex-
cellent, and must have been carefully prepared,
and his manner was pleasing and graceful. He
alluded in the most happy way to the worthy
ancestry of the family of Dickinson. There were
a great many very beautiful thoughts expressed
in his speech. He said a great deal about the
early settlers of New England, of their endu-
rance, their sacrifices and struggles for civil
rights and religions liberty. He said, "It is no
mean distinction to have descended from such
stock. One of those adventurous spirits was
our common ancestor."
	"It is now almost 250 years since Nathaniel
Dickinson landed at Boston, and prior to 1637
found a home at Wethersfield, 40 or 50 miles
below Amherst. In 1659 he planted the perma-
ment seat of our family, and deeply rooted the
name of Dickinson, and here nine succeeding
generations have already risen to call him
blessed." He gave quite a sketch of the family
history, and said "Nathaniel Dickinson died at


[Column 1]
Hadley, June 16th, 1676. The records of his
life deserve to be perpetuated. * * *
No pencil or artist has preserved to us the sem-
blance of his features, no gravestone marks his
resting place. We only know that he sleeps is
the only burying ground at Hadley."
	The next speech was from the orator of the
day, Rev. Charles A. Dickinson, of Lowell, a very
handsome and noble looking man. It was a
historical address, and was received with great
enthusiasm. He gave an extended account of
lineage, claiming all of the name as descendents,
whether spelling it Dickinson, Dickenson,
Dickerson or Dickarson. He stated that in
searching for the ancestry he had heard stories
enough to make a Dickinson cyclopedia. He
said, “I of course discovered among their faces
“my lord and my lady.” Out of the traditional
and historical lore * * I have
sketched such fragments as may enable you to
sketch for yourselves the outlines of our family
tree. We may congratulate ourselves that we
have noble blood in our veins; not merely the
blood of Plantaganets which has doubtless be-
come rather thin by this time, but the blood of
a sturdy line of honest men and women.” 
He spoke eloquently of a few of the distin-
guished dead, and glowingly of the future. His
speech was happily interspersed with poetry ex-
pressive of his subject, which made it all the
more interesting. The next was a poem by
Elizabeth Dickinson Currier, of Worcester, read
by the orator of the day, followed by a humor-
ous essay by Edward B. Dickinson, of New
York City; then a poem by Dr. Gideon Dickin-
son, of Milford. They were all very good and I
enjoyed the speeches very much. They had
what was called “a roll of honor,” hanging on the
wall, containing all the names of the Dickinson
family who had made themselves distinguished.
There was also a chart showing the branches of
the family, and giving some names and a few
dates. 
	After the close of the meeting the
members adjourned to the dining hall; Mr.
Plympton and his wife, of Boston, took me with
them. 
	After dinner we were all seated in front of the
hall for the purpose of having a picture taken.
There were a number of speeches by different
representatives of the family, all very good;
then the President read a telegram from some
member of the family in Colorado; next came a
letter from father, which was preceded by a very
neat speech from the President; he alluded to his
visit to Salt Lake four years ago, and of his visit-
ing places of interest, and being introduced to
father, who he said interested him very much.
He said when he was introduced to father he
told him his grandmother's name was Experience
Dickinson, and then they had an extended con-
versation about families, Dickinson and Wells.
He spoke very highly of father indeed, and then
begged leave to read the letter; every body
seemed delighted with it. * * *
	After the close of the meeting I went up on to
the platform and the President came forward
and introduced me to those who had taken part
in the exercises, and a great many more Dickin-
sons. I went home with the President and his
sister and sister-in-law; it was a lovely drive
through pastures and grand old trees; we passed
the Agricultural College and grounds, they are
just beautiful. The old farm house is a grand
old place. Some of the big elm trees had been
planted by their great, great grandfather. They
all welcomed me so warmly. They had heard
father’s letter read before the meeting.
	There was a reception in the evening, which
was very enjoyable. The time was spent in
singing, dancing, waltzing and in conversation.
After it was over I went home with the family

[Column 2]
and we sat in the parlor and chatted until all
were tired. * *	* * *
	The next morning Belle came over from
Thorndike, and we accompanied the party to
visit the large College; we enjoyed it very much
indeed; then we drove out to Old Hadley, which
was part of the programme. The drive sur-
passed any I ever had taken, and the scenery
too, right along the Connecticut River all the
way was grand. Visited the old home of Na-
thaniel Dickinson, the original settlement of
223 years ago. We went through the old grave-
yard. Some of the stones were so old that it was
impossible to read the inscriptions. * *
We took dinner on the top of Mt. Holyoke, and
the view there—was beyond description.
The whole valley lay before us with its fields,
pastures, woods and cities. I shall never, never
forget it. We could see into four different
states, and with the telescope could see and dis-
tinguish houses, churches, etc. The only regret
I had was that we could not have longer to stay
there. On that day we met ever so many more
nice people, and had a delightful time.
	We expect to have an interesting time here
going over all the places, of which we have
heard you talk so much, visiting your child-
hood’s home.
	Lovingly,
	LOUIE WELLS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LETTER FROM LAUREL HILL, TENN.

	Aug. 14th, 1883.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Allow me space in your neat little paper to
thank some kind person for sending me some
copies of papers from Salt Lake. They were
old copies, but were gladly received and highly
appreciated by all that have read them, except
some that have become so steeped in Method-
ism that their minds have become so contracted
that they will not expand for anything but the
M. E. C. Y. I have seen a great deal of Mormon-
ism lately, and will have to acknowledge that it
is quite a different doctrine to what I expected.
Jacob F. Miller and Brigham A. Holbrook, of
Bountiful, Utah, have been stopping with me
often; I find them perfect gentlemen in every
sense of the word, and my door is ever open for
them or any other strangers from Utah, preach-
ers or not, that come and conduct themselves as
Elders Miller and Holbrook. If God would hear
me I would say, God bless all such people and the
Mormon cause if it is as they preach it, and
condemn all such creeds and isms as I have been
raised to believe in.
	May you make the EXPONENT one of the best
papers in the world, that it may help woman
to have her full rights with man.
	I subscribe myself a friend,
		DR. W. E. SYPORT.


﻿DIED.

	DIED, at South Cottonwood, on the 10th of August,
1883, of convulsions, Sarah Lucretia, daughter of Joseph
and Annie M. Thompson, aged one year and eleven
months.


﻿LETTER II.

TO A MOURNING FRIEND.

	You have mourned, you have shed the sa-
cred tears, the only true “holy water;” you
have given nature her due; she is imperative
ever of her rights, and justly so; you have
amply responded to her demands; you have
raised the cenotaph! it points to hea-


ven, where pure spirits rest in beatitude; now
let the vision fade, let it gradually fade into
the past; secret, silent sorrow feeds on vitality,
and drains the springs of life, and produces
barreness of spirit; don't I know it? Away
with it! Life was made for action, not listless
repinings; turn another leaf in the book of life,
there are pages in it you have not yet studied;
seal down the past, and let "by-gones be by-
gones."
	There is a time in most lives when a great
sorrow has fallen upon us; it forms an epoch
in our lives, we feel the springs of life have be-
come dry and arid; the poetry of our life is
gone forever.

We feel as though a funeral pall
This mighty sorrow had let fall,
Upon our soul, our heart, our brain,
Never to be upraised again!

	We sit passive beneath its crushing weight;
this is our night of sorrow, "but joy cometh in
the morning—" Yes to every night there is a
day, a renewing power to the mental stagna-
tion; an angel descends as of old, and moves
upon the waters of our Bethesda! and lo! and
behold we are regenerated! We arise and
shake off the incubus, and again start in the
race of life, "like a giant refreshed"—Shall we
ever love again? We hope not; we never wish
to love any human being again; we have passed
through so severe a crucible, that the furnace
seemed "heated seven times hotter" for us—
but as time passes we find we have come out
purified if calcined—we seem to have new
thoughts, we view life through a more enlarged
Lens, we are calmer, more rational, the poetic
still mingles sweetly through our being, and we
realize that "the silver cord and the golden
bowl" still holds the precious gems of our soul,
which sorrow has only purified and reset in a
mould more becoming our present, improved,
because more enlarged view of life and its
appendages; the Car of Juggernaut has passed
over us—but the votary still lives! we return to
the dream of our youth, and it preserves us as
a talisman from all contamination, and brings
heaven around us with its cherubim and sera-
phim; as a "good Samaritan" fain would I
pour "the oil and wine" of sympathy into thy
bleeding heart—and I feel "the peace of God"
will surely descend upon you, and behind this
heavy cloud you will realize His smile of love
and peace.		Ever thy friend,
						H. T. KING.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Pursuant to a resolution adopted by the Re-
lief Society of the Auckland Branch of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
we forward the enclosed report with a request
that you will favor us with a publication of
the same in your valuable paper.
	A special meeting was called by the presi-
dent of the society and an invitation extended
to all the adult brethren and sisters of the
Auckland Branch. The meeting convened at
the residence of Sister Miles, on the evening of
July 3rd, ult. After singing and prayer, and
stating the object of the meeting, the president
of the society invited President William M.
Bromley to take the chair. A neat bound
volume of "Spencer's Letters" was presented
to Father Rogers in behalf of the society, ac-
companied with an address, read by President
Bromley, in which was set forth an expression
of the good feelings of the society, and their
appreciation of the many acts of kindness and
hospitality extended by him to the "mission-
aries," also to our beloved President Sister
Sarah Williams and family, during the absence
of her husband from his home, much of which


occurred even before he was a member of the
Church. Father Rogers responded in a very
affecting though brief speech. Hymns, songs,
speeches and other pleasing exercises were en-
gaged in. One noticeable feature was the uni-
versal regret expressed that we were soon to
say adieu to Elder William M. Bromley, who
is released, and will return home by the next
mail steamer, and the hearty God bless Bro.
Bromley was expressive of the love and confi-
dence he has won in the hearts of the people,
with whom he associated, and so ably presided
over during the past 2 1/2 years.
	The fruit and refreshment department was
presided over by Sisters Cox and Nelson; a 
plentiful supply thereof had been prepared
and all partook with thankful hearts; truly a
time of love and union was enjoyed, which
long will be remembered by those who partici-
pated therein.
	On the following Thursday the children to
the number of 28 were entertained at the res-
dence of Brother Cox, at which time nearly
all took part in the exercises, in songs, recita-
tions, readings, etc., and Sisters Cox and Nel-
son distributed fruit, lollies, refreshments, to
all, and it was pleasing to note the expressions
of joy and gladness as depicted in the actions
and upon the countenances of all present.
	Ever praying for the success of the EXPON-
ENT in its noble work, we subscribe ourselves
your sisters in the Gospel of peace,
	SARAH WILLIAMS, President,
	HANNAH COX, Secretary.
Auckland, New Zealand, July 15th, 1883.

CASTLE DALE, EMERY CO.
	Minutes of the Conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the Emery Stake of Zion, held at
Castle Dale, August 3rd, 1883, President Anna
M. Larsen presiding. Conference opened with
the usual exercises of singing and prayer,
reading of reports; the presidents of the differ-
ent societies gave verbal reports and also bore
their testimonies to the truth. President Anna
Larsen made opening remarks, said she was
thankful to see so many present. Expressed
her regret and disappointment at not having
Sisters E. R. S. Smith and E. B. Wells with
us as their presence was anticipated by all. She
knew their absence was unavoidable, and felt
to acknowledge the hand of the Lord in all
things.
	President C. G. Larsen said, he felt honored
in meeting with the sisters, and felt highly hon-
ored in arising to address them; felt pleased to
hear the reports and to see what had been
done towards Temple building; we had received
great blessings, but would receive still greater
ones when our Temples were completed.
Should try to look on the bright side of every
thing through our lives. We were here to
have a good conference; hoped all would feel
free to express their feelings, try to be con-
tented with our lot and not complain because
we do not have everything we might desire;
wished all to avoid running in debt; felt like
blessing and comforting all who were striving
to do right.
	Several of the brethren and sisters made en-
couraging remarks upon storing grain, train-
ing our children, not allowing their minds to
become prejudiced against any of the princi-
ples of the Gospel, and other subjects very in-
teresting and beneficial. All seemed to have a
desire to live their religion and be punctual in
responding to every call made upon them.
	After singing and prayer conference ad-
journed till the first Saturday in February.
	ANNA E. SEELY, Secretary.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 55


﻿The anger of an enemy represents our faults
or admonishes us of our duty with more hearti-
ness than the kindliness of a friend.—Jeremy
Taylor.


﻿LOGAN PRIMARY CHILDREN.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The 2nd district of the First Ward Primary
of Logan met at the house of President Emma
Pike to surprise on her 79th birthday a poor
widow named Ostlund. There were thirty
ladies present, among them, Stake President of
R. S., Mrs. E. Benson, and Mrs. Lucy Cardon,
Sister Townsend, Sister Ivins from St. George,
Sister R. R. Grant, the mother of Apostle H.
J. Grant, Sister Jane E. Molen, Primary Stake
President, Sister Stewart, Sister Henstrom and
a number of others. The teachers were sent
for the old lady, and as soon as she was seated
the door was thrown open and 50 primary
children sang with spirit "Open the door for
the Children." Prayer by Sister Molen. Sing-
ing "In our Lovely Deseret." An address was
then read by E. L. Crowther, after which all
the children shook hands with the old lady and
nearly all presented her with some little gift.
Sister Molen aud Sister Lucy Cardon ad-
dressed the meeting in a pleasing and interest-
ing manner. A song by Misses Lowe and L.
Lieshman; Reading by Sister Pike; Song,
"Sadie Ray," by the Misses Thompsons. Sis-
ter Henstrom spoke for a few moments on de-
portment, etc. A recitation by Minnie Ful-
mer; Select reading by E. L. Crowther, "The
Model Church."
	Sister Grant spoke in a very interesting way
to the children; exhorted parents to take time
to instruct them, sing, pray and read with
them. "Desire that old Sister Ostlund may
live as long as life is desirable to her, and then
pass through the gates of death without suffer-
ing, and on to her exaltation in our Father's
Kingdom."
	Song by Bertha Jones. Sister Ivins spoke
on purity and its beauty, and counselled the
children to read and educate themselves for the
great future; spoke a few cheering words to
the old ladies.
	Song, "Under the Snow," by Dagman Frank
and Miss Wilson.
	Sister Townsend spoke of the beauty of
truth; said if all mothers were as faithful and
noble as Sister Grant there would be more no-
ble sons. Exhorted mothers to pray with their
children daily, and to win their confidence;
teach them to keep the Sabbath day.
	William Pike recited the Lord's Prayer, all
the children joining in concert. Sister Stewart
spoke a few pleasant words. Song by Jennie
Bench. Sister Benson gave a few words of ad-
vice and comfort to all, especially to the aged.
Sister Pike addressed the assembly in a few
appropriate words, then closed with singing.
Dismissed by Sister Fjelsted, after which all
partook of refreshments. All felt it had been
a good, cheerful meeting.
	Our Primary was organized in June, 1883,
with the following officers: Emma Pike, Presi-
dent; E. L. Crowther and J. Lee, Counselors;
James Stewart, Secretary; Jenny Bench, As-
sistant Secretary; Katie Hansen, Treasurer.


PICNIC PARTY!

	A conjoint picnic party of the Second
Ward Relief Society and Primary Associa-
tion of Logan took place on Saturday, 11th of
August, at Johnson's new bowery. All the
pleasure seekers who were too old or too
young to walk were conveyed to the grounds
in carriages and other vehicles. When all
had arrived the opening exercises commenced
at 10:30 a.m., Mrs. R. Nibley presiding. Sing-
ing by the Primary. Prayer by Sister M. Bal-
lard. Singing. Then followed questions and
answers on the Bible by the Primary Associa-
tion, also songs and recitations, which were
very good
	The remainder of the time was occupied by


the Relief Society, and the recitations and
songs of the members were rendered in a con-
cise and pleasing manner. All present partook
of the bounties of life prepared for the occa-
sion. After refreshments, swinging, skipping
the rope and other sports were engaged in by
all. On the arrival of Sister Elizabeth Ben-
son, President of the Cache Valley Stake Re-
lief Society, her counselors and others (that
were invited but could not attend earlier) the
president, Sister M. Ballard, called the people
to order, and some choice songs and recitations
were given for the benefit of Sister Elizabeth
Benson and the other sisters. Sister Benson
made a few remarks; encouraged all to continue
in well doing; she said it would be a day long
to be remembered, especially by the little folks.
Thinking that they had been rusticating long
enough, President, Sister M. Ballard, thought
it would be well to close the day's enjoyment.
Singing by the Primary. Prayer by Sister
Mary McAllister at 3:30 p.m., when all re-
turned homeward, feeling well satisfied with
the pleasures of the day.
	EMELINE E. JAMES,
		Secretary R. S.
August 13th, 1883.


LETTER FROM OHIO.

DEAR MORMON SISTERS:
	It is coming towards the close of the year,
when all good business persons examine into
their accounts,stock on hand,liabilities, etc. Per-
haps 'twere well to settle up religiously now
and then—take an inventory of liabilities, as-
sets, profits and loss, and so on.
	Our communications began on the subject
of plural marriage. You came forward promp-
ly and answered my questions with seeming
honesty, and I accepted your statements that,
"peace and happiness were found in homes
where plural wives lived together."
	On that point, however, I was not a dispu-
tant, for in studying human nature, as I see it
in those about me, I have long been convinced
that such a change in the marriage relations
would conduce to the happiness and benefit of
the world. But I thank you, all the same, for
your testimonies to the truth of my impres-
sions.
	Perhaps some of you wonder whether your
letters have really had any effect on my mind,
or if I only write for pastime. I will say that
your kind, Christian words have, I trust, fallen
upon good ground, and will, in season, bring
forth abundantly. Almost thou persuadest
me; at least my heart goes out to you with
kindest feelings—akin to love, and I thank
God that we have become acquainted.

	Though we be strangers, far apart,
		In purpose we unite;
	Sympathy and love inspire each heart
		To live for God and Right!

	God is our father—yours and mine,
		As sisters we unite;
	Against all wrong we will combine
		To live for God and right.

	All prejudices thrown aside,
		In letters large we write,
	So all may read the words with pride,
		"We live for God and Right!"

Yours with love,
	EMILY SCOTT.


﻿Things that never happen are often as much
realities to us in their effects, as those that
are accomplished.—Dickens.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]﻿
"THEY SAY."

"They say," oh, well, suppose they do,
	But can they prove the story true?
Suspicion may arise from naught
	But malice, envy, evil thought;
Why count yourself among the "they"
	Who whisper what they dare not say?

"They say"—but why the tale rehearse
	And help to make the matter worse?
No good can possibly accrue
	By telling what may be untrue;
And is it not a nobler plan
	To speak of all the good you can?

	"Oh, how I hate the slanderer," is the uni-
versal cry. Everybody deprecates such a thing
as a slanderous tongue so that nobody will ever
acknowledge its possession, and every body
claims that they would not say any thing to in-
jure another for the world, it is entirely against
their principles, in fact it is awful to speak
evil of our neighbors, and no one has the least
desire to do it. Yet it has never been my
pleasure to meet the person who has not at
some time been the sorrowful victim of slan-
der, injustice and misrepresentation. If you,
dear reader, are acquainted with such a person
please honor me with an introduction and res-
cue me from the settled conviction that such a
one does not exist. Volumes have been writ-
ten about slander, but who ever saw anything
in its praise? It never appeared to meet with
the least appreciation from the pulpit, the press,
nor, it is claimed, the fireside, still it lives and
thrives and fattens, and the mystery is, who
feeds the serpent with its forked and poisonous
tongue, whose appetite is ravenous for the fail-
ings, mistakes and misfortunes of humanity,
seasoned and spiced with the condiments of
jealousy, envy, malice and thoughtlessness,
without these it could not exist an hour, and
all can testify that it has never been starved
to death. Now, who prepares the dainty,
nutritious dishes for slander's greedy palate?
Is it you and I? My conscience is clear, of
course; but why do you blush and look so con-
fused? Oh, you blush to think of that bit of
scandal you repeated at Jenny Smith's the
other day, of course you did not originate it,
"they say" set the story afloat so you thought
it no harm to tell a few of your friends and
hear what they had to say about it, and think-
ing that some parts of the tale seemed slightly
deficient and tame, you colored it with a few
suggestions aud opinions of your own, also
with what knowledge you had of the affair,
which by the way, your imaginative friends
will all ingraft in the story when they repeat
it, each one in turn filling in vacancies with
their own ideas and constructions, till, ere
long, the victim of all this talk is painted
jet black, but every artist will proudly disdain
his share of the painting. Talking on this
subject brings to mind a time when I felt to
blame myself for helping to feed that monster.
Once I positively knew something "real mean"
about an anquiantance, but I felt so generous
and charitable that I would not unvail the
fault to others for any price, till one day, in
an evil hour, I heard that this very person
had been speaking of some of my failings—
this I felt to be very unjust for I hadn't any
worth mentioning I knew—so just to prove
that he had no room to talk about other peo-
ple, I told what I knew, and felt that I was
entitled to a great deal of praise for telling
nothing but the plain truth. I've since tried
to quiet my guilty conscience with the thought
that "Truth is not Slander;" but when I reflect
upon the motive I feel that silence would have
been more noble than even truth; so I carry a-
round a secret contempt for my own weakness.
It don't seem possible that I could be among the
class who would love and make a lie, but I
know that I have "taken up a reproach against
my neighbor," and would be glad to prove

[Column 2]
that I alone was guilty of such an offense.
Since we are all brothers and sisters and child-
ren of the same wise and loving Father, why
can't we realize that the disgrace of our great
human family is no credit to us personally?

"How can it pleasure human kind
To prove humanity but base?"

SUN FLOWER.


[Column 1]
NOTICE

	To Secretaries of Relief Societies. Please
send in your semi-annual reports by 15 h of
September. Those received after 20th of Sep-
tember will have to be omi ted, as our t
her will then have been made out. Please
send to Deseret News Office for blanks, twenty-
five cents per dozen. Also it will be quite a
favor for each secretary to see that her report
balances it will save that work being done here.
Let real estate and property be under one bea[-],
and very much oblige.
				S. M. KIMBALL, Secretary,
						Per R. B. Prat .

ELLEN B. FURGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office and Residence on 2d South between 3d
and 4d East Streets.

Special Study has been given to SURGERY, DISEASES
OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS.
☞ Can be Called by Telephone Day or Night.

For Sale at this Office.

BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.

PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,		- 	25c. per copy.
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book, 		40c.	"
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,		-		$l.00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco, 	1.25	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE.
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, -	1.50	"

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
Office and residence, South Temple Street, one
block and a half west of the Valley House.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.

KNITTING FACTORY,
On 1st W. St., Bet. 2d and 3d North, Next Door South of W. H. Hooper's.
Men's Socks, Ladies' and Childrens' Stockings, Infants
Knitted Shirts and Shoes, Ladies' and Children's Hoods,
etc. Family Knitting done on Reasonable Terms.
CAROLINE C. RALEIGH,
19th WARD, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets, 	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds, 		Brushes, Etc., Etc.

SCHOOL IN MIDWIFERY.

DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT

COMMENCES a new class in her office over Godbe &
Pitts' Drug Store October 8th, at 1 o'clock p. m.
This school was established in 1878. The Term of five
months, three lectures per week, is a practical course
for those who desire to enter at once into this work. It
is advised that those whose circumstances will admit,
attend a second course, for the subject is so comprehen-
sive that a repetition of the lectures is very advan-
tageous, especially to those of limited edncation.
	Other branches of medicine are taught only as they
bear especially upon this subject. More than that in so
limited a course would be too superficial. Manikin,
charts and instruments are used in teaching.
Tuition..........................................................$30.00
Books............................................................$13.00
	N. B.—Orders for books must be sent in early so as to
get them from the east in time.

[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY., Utah
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENS WARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
☞ We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS.
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

[Image of store]
HENRY DINWOODEY.
FURNITURE,
WALL PAPER,
CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQU NS
AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY.

F Auerbach & Bro.
Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
☞ CALL AND EXAMINE. ☜


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 12.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 15, 1883.	NO. 8.


HEBER C. KIMBALL.

A daughter's hand has raised the veil
	That hid from stranger's view
The spirit gentle, pure and sweet,
	The spirit grand and true;
And those who deemed him stern and mien,
	And swift and keen of word,
Judged by the meed that error won
	In duty's service heard.

Grand in his stature, so his soul,
	In strength majestic bore
A burden if his wounded heart,
	Nor sign of suffering wore;
The eye that pierced the false of heart
	As clouds by lightning riven,
Within the walls of home illumed
	Their lives with light of heaven.

And he, who as commander stood,
	In childlike weakness bent
Pleading fo strength for him, for her
	Whose life with his was blent;
Ah, skeptic, ye who knew him not,
	Your judgement false withhold,
O, rich the gift! if to mankind
	His story could be told.

Scarce less than love he gave to God
	The love he gave to these—
The true companions of his youth,
	And children round their knees;
Yet, on the altar he resigned
	The dearest joys of earth,
And love divine, descending, gave
	Gifts of celestial worth.

A contrite spirit, broken heart,
	And noble work fulfilled,
These were the sheaves he carried home
	When his brave heart was stilled.
Joy, immortality, are his,
	His humblest prayers are won,
And heaven unto earth bequeaths
	The record of its son.

	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Sunday, Aug. 26th, 1883.


[Column 1]

"BE COURTEOUS."

	These words are a Bible injunction, written
with its usual sublime brevity; but our Lexicons
define the word "courteous" as "civil, well-bred,
kindness, favor, civility"—all this is part of
the Gospel, and should be inserted into our
daily vocabulary, because the exercise of it is
called for continually.
	It is getting to be thought, and taught by
some twilight minds, that affable, pleasant, con-
descending manners are servile! such minds
have no comprehension of what is truth and
beauty; so far from this, there is a high-toned
manner of the most exquisite politeness, that
would perhaps repel a person not accustomed
to etiquette and polite society—almost as much
as a freedom of manner used by an inferior
character.
	It is a general complaint that the children
and young people of the L. D. S. are very de-
fiicient in affability and politeness, i. e., in
good manners in general; and any one who has
mingled in polished society will acknowledge
this to be an absolute fact! Have they ac-
quired the notion from the book of the afore-
said teacher that they will compromise their
dignity by being "courteous"? Let me say—
any one who is satisfied that their dignity is
fully established is never in the least fear of
oompromising it! but when we see a real lady
or gentleman affable, condescending, gentle

[Column 2]

and considerate, even to the mendicant in the
street, and to all they may come in contact
with, a very halo of beauty at once seems to
surround them, and every right feeling heart
exclaims, even if the lip is silent, how beauti-
ful! I have found one I desire to imitate.
	True, genuine politeness is as free as air!
there is no stiffness in it, no "putting on style;"
that is a bogus affair, and at once denotes the
plebian. True nobility is ever humble and
unassuming; they were "born in the purple,"
and wear it naturally as their daily clothing—
Were we to come in contact with the good old
man, the Emperor William, we would see one
we might feel was "one of us"—and a Nor-
wich friend of mine, who often sees the Prince
of Wales riding around, when sojourning at
his seat of Sandringham, speaks of his great
affability to all classes, at the cattle show
shaking hands with the herdsmen, and con-
versing with them as if they were his equals,
and that he is delighted when he finds himself
taken for a Norfolk Squire, etcetera. Queen
Victoria has ever been noted for her conde-
scension; always receiving as favors to herself
the attentions of her court and servants.
	My young friends, drop all paltry assump-
tion, be determined to be natural, but see that
nature is cultivated in the highest school; and
remember, the best and highest teachings you
will find in the Gospel; that alone will give the
first principles of politeness; and those who
graduate through its varied "forms" will most
assuredly attain the covented diploma, that will
fit and qualify them to pass through life, evi-
dencing to everyone by their kind, affable,
condescending self-sacrificing deportment, that
they are living Christians, and consequently
bearing the badge and title of the Church of 
the first-born, even the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints.
	HANNAH T. KING.
Salt Lake City, Sept 13, 1883.


"WE AIM AT NOBLE WOMANHOOD."

	What is noble womanhood? Is it to dress,
sing, play upon the organ or piano, or make a
fine appearance in company, all of these ac-
complishments are very well in their places,
but they do not constitute a noble woman. The
mind may be well trained, but unless the gar-
den of the heart is cultivated, and good seed
is sown we will never, no, never make noble
women. There are many people who are well
educated, who are anything but noble in char-
acter.
	Let us set our aim high and then reach it.
We aim at noble womanhood. Let us become
then tru, noble-hearted women wherever we
may be found, whether in the kitchen, garden
or parlor. It does not detract form the lady
to be able to make a nice loaf of bread or cook
a meal of victuals, in fact there is no real lady,
in my estimation, but that thoroughly under-
stands everything pertaining to household af-
fairs. Therefore if we expect to come up to,
our aim, and be true, noble women, we must
understand all these things. There is no place
that makes a young lady appear more lovely
and truly lovable then when looking tenderly
and lovingly after her younger brothers and
sisters, doing everything for the comfort and
happiness of father and mother and never re-
membering self, except so far as dignity of
character and self-respect are necessary to a


noble life. Such a young lady is generally be-
loved by all who know her, she makes sun-
shine wherever she goes, and is what I would
term a noble woman.
	Let us all keep our motto in view, remem-
bering that we are the daughters of God, by
keeping His commandments, being chaste and
pure in every thought, and in the end we will
be worthy the title of "A Noble Woman."
		AUNT HANNAH.
	Manuscript paper, Young Ladies' Journal,
Nephi, Utah.


SCENES IN NAUVOO, AND INCIDENTS
FROM H. C. KIMBALL'S JOURNAL.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	"Friday, January 2nd. The weather was
clear and cold this morning. At an early hour
those who slept in the Temple were stirring,
and a large company had assembled in the ves-
try, waiting for their washings and anointings,
although it had been supposed the work must
cease for a short time for want of oil, but sev-
eral bottles had been brought in for temple
use by various individuals, so that by the time
it was wanted there were seventeen bottles.
These were consecrated	*	*	by the
following persons:	*	*	Amasa Ly-
man, George A. Smith, Joseph Young, Wil-
liam Crosby, A. O. Smoot, Charles C. Rich
and F. D. Richards.	*	*	*	After
the regular exercises and business of the day
were over and the meeting of the High Coun-
cil and the High Priests were closed, we had
some excellent instrumental and vocal music-
several members of the band having been invi-
ted in by Elder Kimball, viz. Wm. Pitt, Wm.
Clayton, J. F. Hutchinson and James Smith-
ers. They performed several very beautiful
pieces of music, and at the request of Presi-
dent Joseph Young played a Fisher's Horn-
pipe, upon which he broke the gravity of the
soene by dancing by himself. President Young
then invited some others to join him in the
dance.	*	*	After a short time
spent in dancing Elder Hyde made a short
address, and requested those present to unite
with him in thanksgiving and prayer to God—
which they did. A new song composed by
Wm. Clayton, called "Come with me," was
first sung by Clayton and Hutchinson, accom-
panied on the violin by Pitt and on the bass
viol by Smithers. When this was over an ad-
dress was made by Elder Hyde. After the ad-
dress and prayer the President gave permission
to any one to speak, or pray, or shout, or speak
in tongues. No one seemed to disposed to use
the opportunity, whereupon the president
arose and made a short address.	*	*
He alluded to the privilege which we now have
of meeting in this house, and said that we
could worship God in the dance, as well as in
other ways.	*	*	The way for us to
grow and thrive is for us to serve the Lord in
all we do; and as we have called upon the dif-
ferent quorums to meet together once a day, so
it will eventually be with the whole Church.
There will be houses for them to meet in. Re-
member the covenants that we have entered
into. No man is to be filled with lightness—
no brother or sister will be allowed to speak
evil of his brother of sister.	*	*	It
is the duty of the quorum to meet together—
we cannot enjoy it but a short time.	*	*


[Column 1]
We will praise the Lord as we please. Now,
as to dancing in this house—there are thou-
sands of brethren and sisters that have labored
to build these walls and put on this roof, and
they are shut out from any opportunity of en-
joying any amusement among the wicked—or
in the world, and shall they have any recrea-
tion? Yes! and this is the very place where
they can have liberty. We will go to a land
where there are at least no old settlers to quar-
rel with us; where we can say we have killed
the snakes and made the roads, and we will
leave this wicked nation to themselves for they
have rejected the Gospel. This church has ob-
tained already all they have labored for in
building this Temple, but after we leave here
(I feel it in my bones) there will be thousands
of men that can go into any part of the world
and build up the kingdom, and build temples.
If any want to faint, let them faint. If there
are any that don't want to go with us, don't
urge them. The United States Government
says, if we let the Mormons go out from this
nation they will give us trouble. Well, per-
haps their fears will come upon them. Where
is there a city of refuge on the face of the
earth but this? They have tried to break us
up, but with all their officers, all their troops
and all their power we are here yet. They
have got writs out for me, but they have not
got me yet, and when they do get me they will
get something else, I assure you. From Polk
down to the meanest bogus maker or whisky
seller it was resolved to break up the "Mor-
mons" this fall; and if I had hearkened to Col.
Backenstos we should have been broken up
and all put out of the way. Bnt when he re-
ceived correct instructions he acted right, and
the plan and trap which our enemies laid for
us worked so that it gave us the advantage
over them; and when he went according to
counsel he came off victorious every time.
We are hunted and persecuted and our enemies
try to trouble us in every way. We need a lit-
tle recreation. My mind is continually upon
the stretch, because I know the Church must
be saved. The Gospel must be preached to
all the world. Temples must be built, and
then add to this all minor matters, I tell you
no man knows, or can know the burden and
responsibility that rests upon my mind, unless
he experiences it. One thing I will do, I will
do my utmost to break down every thing that
divides; I will not have division and conten-
tion, and I mean that there shall not be a fid-
dle in this Church but what has Holiness to
the Lord upon it, nor a flute, nor a trumpet,
nor any other instrument of music. If Jos-
eph Smith had lived we should not have been
here, we should have been in some other country.
We can't stay in this house but a little while.
We have got to build another house; it will be
a larger house than this, and a more glorious
one, and we shall build a great many more; we
shall come back here, and we shall go to Kirt-
land, and build houses all over the continent
of North America. Last night we had some
of our young folks here—some of our children,
and they all covenanted that they would no
more mingle with the wicked. After closing
his remarks he gave permission for all that
wished to retire to do so."
	The traditions of our forefathers, which we
all inherited a portion of, were such that
dancing was once thought among the unpar-
donable sins. In the early days of Kirtland,
I remember that the ones guilty of indulging
in so gross a sin as dancing were considered
worthy of being disfellowshipped. They, like the
sects of the day, had received their training from
the old school where to sing a song or to laugh
or run upon the Sabbath day was too much for
the sanctity of those who believed in burning
men, women and children as witches, etc. At
the same time they professed to believe in the
Holy Bible, and upon which all profess

[Column 2]
to have founded their religion. But there we
find nothing to condemn dancing; but we do
read in Exodus, chapter xv, 20 21 verses:
	"And Miriam, the prophetess, the sister of
Aaron, took a timbrel in her hand, and all the
women went out after her with timbrels and
with dances. And Miriam answered them,
"Sing ye to the Lord, for He hath triumphed
gloriously." This same spirit was what filled
the hearts of the Saints of Nauvoo, who had
builded a Temple to the Most High. In the
midst of the most bitter poverty and persecu-
tion they had proven their faith by their works.
The Lord had been their shield and their de-
fense; though scourged and smitten from time
to time they had no cause to doubt but he
would still protect them and fight their battles.
This He had promised, through Joseph the
Prophet, that He would do, like as he did to
Moses in the case of the children of Israel if
they would go forward and do His bidding,
and after being delivered even out of the
seventh trouble their joy and gratitude was
poured out to their Deliverer in music and the
dance, and they felt to sing, "Thou in thy
mercy hast led forth the people, which thou
hast redeemed: thou hast guided them in thy
strength unto thy holy habitation."

"I'ts not to go to church to-day
And look devout and seem to pray,
And e'er to-morrow's sun goes down
Be dealing scandal through the town."

	"There are six things that the Lord hates,
yea, seven that He abhors—a proud look and
a lying tongue, hands that shed innocent
blood, a heart that deviseth evil imaginations,
feet that be swift to run to mischief, the false
witness that speaketh lies and he that soweth
discord among brethren."
	No one can truthfuly say that either Joseph
Smith's prophetic words, or those spoken by
Brigham Young and his brethren have failed.
Thousands upon thousands of this people can
testify to the fulfilment of their words spoken
concerning this latter day work in that early
day up to this time. They were placed upon
record for us and our posterity to read, fore-
telling events and what should be accomplished
in a far off country, of which we then knew
little or nothing. Then how can we disbelieve
the rest? And have we not witnessed and
helped to fulfil many of the predictions of
Isaiah? How plain and beautiful are these
words: "And there shall be a highway for the
remnant of His people, which shall be left
from Assyria, like as it was to Israel in the
day that he came up out of the land of
Egypt."
	"O Zion, that bringest good tidings, get
thee up into the high mountains; lift up thy
voice with strength, lift it up, be not afraid:
say unto the cities of Judah, Behold you God!
Who are these that fly as a cloud, and as the
doves to their windows? And the sons of
strangers shall build up thy walls, and their
kings shall minister unto thee, for in my wrath
I smote thee, but in my favor have I had mer-
cy on thee."
	"The sons also of them that afflicted thee
shall come bending unto thee; and all they
that despised thee shall bow themselves at the
soles of thy feet; and they shall call thee the
city of the Lord, the Zion of the Holy One of
Israel." "Fear not: for I am with thee: I will
bring thy seed from the east, and gather thee
from the west; I will say to the north give up;
and to the south keep not back: bring my sons
from far and my daughters from the ends of
the earth." We have cause to believe that
many of the sons and daughters of those who
persecuted the Saints are coming to a knowl-
edge of the truth, and already they are gather-
ing up to Zion; and how vain are the efforts of
man to put a veto to the great Latter-day
work which the Grand Ruler of the universe
has put his hand to, to accomplish in this the

[Column 3]
last dispensation of the fulness of time. Is it
not the sons of strangers that have brought
strength and muscle, and have builded our
walls and our cities, and assisted in bringing
this barren soil under subjection? Who are
these that fly as a cloud, and as the doves to
our windows, but the remnant of His people?
The prophet also said, "And the Gentiles shall
come to thy light, and the kings to the bright-
ness of thy rising. Lift up thine eyes round
about, and see: they gather themselves together,
they come to thee: thy sons shall come from
far and thy daughters shall be nursed at thy
side."
	But how many have remained true to those
sacred covenants made in the house of the
Lord, and continued true to the same? Has
He not been merciful, long-suffering and for-
bearing with us during all the years of our
pilgrimage? With all our sinfulness and in-
gratitude He has still extended towards us a
hand of mercy and prosperity. But are we
deserving the title of Latter-day Saints—follow-
ing as we are doing in the ways of Babylon,
and mixing up with the Gentile world till we
can scarcely be distinguished from them? "De-
part ye, depart ye, go ye out from thence,
touch no unclean thing; go ye out from the
midst of her, be ye clean that bear the vessels
of the Lord." So spoke the prophet Isaiah.
If we could but realize the great loss that we
are sustaining by disobeying any of the com-
mandments of God and remember that we
have got to render up to Him a strict account
for every act, word, and even every idle
thought, we would certainly do different, and
I think we would be more careful and put a
double guard upon that unruly member which
causes so many needless pangs and heart burn-
ings by the unfeeling criticisms, evil speaking
and tale bearing which are so commonly indul-
ged in—making mountains out of mole hills,
thereby sowing the seeds of enmity and dis-
cord and hatred between brothers and sisters,
and by those, too, who have covenanted before
God and His angels that they would cease the
practice and do it no more. Nor would there
be so striking a line drawn between the rich
and the poor by following and apeing, not
only the Babylonish styles, which are fast
creeping into our midst with all their stiff and
aristocratic forms, but other great evils which
are growing out of it. Pride and high mind-
edness we know that the Lord will not coun-
tanance. They are not according to the Gos-
pel nor the pattern set by our Savior, whose
only associates (we read) were the poor, and
they were looked down upon just as they are
to-day. It is very humiliating to confess that
we have such things in Zion, but which cannot
long be permitted for they are among the
greatest of sins, and which are calculated to
lead men and women down to perdition.

To be Continued.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LEMUEL, NOT SOLOMON.
DUBUQUE, Iowa, August 7th, 1883.
	"H. B. B.” recently contrasted Dr. Ham-
mond's idea of women with the description of
a virtuous woman found in Proverbs, and at-
tributed its authorship to King Solomon. But
this wisdom did not come from any love-sick
Solomon. The words are those of King Lem-
uel;—“the prophecy that his mother taught him.”
Apparently she “jumped at this conclusion;” a
wise one, considering her "neurotical condi-
tion."
	It is the abnormal, hysterical women who
usually put themselves under the care of male
physicians. Then these physicians judge all
women by these invalids. Doctors, like the
Hebrews, see a "fall," whenever women, Eve's
daughters, desire progress.
	MARY N. ADAMS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LIFE.

I watched a bud, as morning light
	Burst o'er the earth;
I saw it, as its leaves so bright
	Received their birth!

I saw it, when the noonday sun
	Shed forth its rays;
Its beauty seemed my sense to shun—
	I sang its praise!

I watched once more—the sun had set—
	Its beauty fled—
Around me nought save leaves I met
	To show 'twas dead.

And such is life—we blossom, die;
	Our acts remain,
Which, like the leaves, around do lie
	To mark our reign!

	JAMES H. WALLIS.
Salt Lake City, September 8th, 1883.


FOOT-PRINTS.

I was musing one day as I passed along
A thoroughfare trod by the daily throng,
In their calls to labor to and fro,
Or on missions of love or pleasure go.

Musing and reading the story found
In the language of footprints upon the ground,
A language few study or stop to read,
As they rush along at a lightning speed.

Some are here yet that I've watched for years,
Watched with trembling hopes and fears;
As I view the dangers that lie between
The present and future so dimly seen.

Some have passed on to the other side,
And the foot-prints have faded 'neath time's swift
	tide;
And some indelible stand to-day,
As milestones to guide the stranger's way.

I have watched in the days your four little feet,
Your little forms in beanty complele;
Sweet names we called them—May and Gay—
But in the bright spring-time one passed away.

And we wept for the lost and the one still left,
For her heart was broken, her life bereft,
But the little hands beckoned beyond the tide,
And now they're together the other side.

Foot-prints, oh, foot-prints, the tales you tell,
How many feet faltered, how many fell;
Some we thought firm as the Rock of God,
In an hour unguarded let go the Rod,

The Iron Rod that must guide our feet,
Till we gain the victory grand, complete.
Oh, Christ in heaven, the weak make strong,
And guard in this hour of sin and wrong.

Here are tiniest feet just entering in,
Here is youth and manhood strong to win,
Here's the footsore and weary whose journey's near
	done,
Whose crown for eternity's lost or won.

Here's the school-girl and maiden with bright dreams
	untold,
Here's the fallen whose virtue's been bartered and sold;
The strong and the feeble, the sin-stained and pure,
All mark the same thoroughfare, who will endnre

And keep safe their birthright life, endless life,
While making their journey 'mid trials and strife?
Again—oh our Father—let Thy love descend,
And guide us in safety e'en unto the end.

HOPE.


[Column 1]

BUCKEYES.

WHICH OF THE TWO SHALL VOTE.

	"Emigrants are coming to this country at
the rate of 5,000 to 6,000 per week. Did yon
read that, Harry?" asked Mrs. Dyle as she
turned over the paper to find the Society News
column.
	"Let 'em come," said her hnsband without
taking his eyes off Clara Belle's article, which

[Column 2]

he was hungrily devouring, in the Cincinnati
Enquirer.
	"Do you think it is well to encourage emi-
gration at such rates? I should deem it wiser
to limit it somewhat, and keep our lands for
ourselves. It looks to me like America will
be in the position of aged parents who have
unwisely given all the property to the children
and made themselves dependent on the unwil-
ling support of the children. Don't you think
so, Harry?"
	"Y-e-s, y-e-s, I guess—what did you say—
have you read Clara Belle's article?"
	"Of course not, when you have had the pa-
per ever since it came. I never read them any-
way. I was speaking of foreigners filling up
this country so rapidly, and asked if you ap-
proved of it."
	"What do I care, why need you; it is none
of our affairs."
	"None of our affairs! a'rn't we American
citizens, is it none of our affairs who comes into
our home? Are you—"
	Her husband laughed out, which caused
Mrs. Dyle to arise and push aside her chair so
suddenly that Harry looked up startled. "You
need not laugh," she said half angrily, "what
did I say so funny?"
	"Why, why, Bess, I wasn't laughing at you;
didn't you hear what you said, I was laughing
about Langtry and Freddy Gebhart—the pa-
pers say—O, yes, you were talking against
foreigners coming to this country; well, why
are you put out about it?"
	His wife made no answer, but continued her
reading, so he turned again to his. After a
few moments she asked: "What length of time
must these 1,000, out of the 5,000 who came
last week, remain before they are privileged
to vote—have a voice in law making for the
country? No doubt one fifth, at least, of the
number are males."
	Mrs. Dyle stood with flushed cheeks and
her black eyes flashing as she asked this ques-
tion.
	"Five years," her husband answered, "they
must live here five years and then become nat-
uralized citizens. They can know all about
the country in that length of time if they
read the daily papers."
	"Yes, certainly; if they read all Clara
Belle's articles, and everything that's said
about Mrs. Langtry and that Fred Gebhart,"
Mrs. Dyle answered, somewhat scornfully.
"How long has Pete Swarty, who keeps the sa-
loon on the corner, been here—ten years?
What does he know, or care about the coun-
try's right or wrong; is he as well qualified to
vote as I am?"
	"You! Do you want to vote?,'
	"No matter whether I do or not; but one ar-
gument brought against women voting is, that
'twill only increase the number of votes to be
counted and do no good. I think the same ar-
gument will apply to these emigrants."
	Mr. Dyle looked at his wife with a smile
which seemed a mixture of admiration and
contempt. Then got up, with a yawn, stretched
himself and went out, saying loftily: "Let
women attend to their own affairs; they know
nothing about politics."
	And, in his absence; Mrs. Dyle thought
over his words and felt—mad. "When he re-
turns we will compare notes and see which is
the best informed on political matters," she
said to herself.
		CHAPTER SECOND.
	Teatime arrived, but not Harry. Mrs. Dyle
had overcome her anger and was looking very
sweet and complacent in her white dress with
sprays of scarlet flowers in her hair and at her
throat. She had not given up her determina-
tion to have a political talk with her husband,
but, as a wise woman that she was, had con-

[Column 3]

cluded that she did know but little and would
ask for information.
	Everything was perfect in their little dining
room with its cool matting, choice pictures,
neatly set table and glittering crystal and sil-
ver-ware on the side-board. Mrs. Dyle prided
herself on being a perfect house-keeper, and
was an affectionate, good-tempered wife with-
al. She waited nearly an hour for the com-
ing of her liege lord, then drank her tea, ate
a little of the good bread; cake and fruit—her
heart growing heavy and sad.
	Too well she surmised the cause of his tardi-
ness. Doubtless he had found some compan-
ions who had also been reading of Langtry
and Gebhart and were toasting.
	She still waited another hour, then cleared
the tea-table, and taking a book on political
economy went to the parlor to read.
	A little after ten o'clock Harry came in.
Harry! Was it Harry, her husband? The
man who had left her in the afternoon with
such a pompous walk, who had said, "let wo-
man mind her own affairs, etc." was a fine
looking man in faultless attire—this man who
had just entered had his hat crushed in, and
on one side; his clothes were bespattered with
mud; there is nothing proud or manly in his
walk or appearance. His arms hang limp at
his side and the spit runs from his mouth as he
says with a foolish smile, "W-e-l-l, B-e-s-s, wat
yer (hic) 'pinion (hic) pol (hic) tics, eh?"
	Mre. Dyle looked at him in silence as he
dropped upon the sofa and sank into a drunk-
en sleep immediately, then, as she tried to re-
move his boots, she said, "One of the lords of
creation, oh, lordy!"
	EMILY SCOTT.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The Annual meeting of the American Woman
Suffrage Association will be held in Brook-
lyn, N. Y., on the 9th and 10th of October, in
the Academy of Music.

	Mrs. Margaret W. Campbell has devoted
most of August to Northwestern Iowa, in Clay,
Dickinson, O'Brien, Monena, Ida, Sac and
Carroll Counties.

	At last the will of Mrs. Eddy, of Boston,
has been approved. This generous lady left
$32,000, to be equally devided between Lucy
Stone of Mass. and Susan B. Anthony of New
York, to be used in the interest of "Woman's
Rights Cause." She has also left some money
to Wendell Phillips.

	If the men who devote themselves with pa-
thetically unprofitable zeal to exposing the
weaknesses of women would only spend half
as much time and ingenious effort in curing
these weaknesses, women would soon be Sam-
sons in intellect and morals.—Mrs. May Wright
Sewall.

	Miss Willard's California campaign "netted"
the W. C. T. U. of that State over one thou-
sand dollars, resulting from the collections
taken at her meetings. This she was strenous-
ly urged to take and use for her own necessi-
ties and work, but preferred to leave it behind
her to continue the ministration so well be-
gun.—Ex.

	Our Herald, published in Lafayette, Iudi-
ana, comes this week in a new form. It con-
tains 20 pages of matter, and is in size suitable
for binding. It will be issued the first Satur-
day of each month, and continues to be the
organ of the N. W. S. A. as it was when
printed weekly. It is always full of news,
fresh and interesting. The editor, Mrs. Helen
M. Gougar, is one of the brightest shrewdest
women in America, good looking and
pleasing in her manner, tasteful in dress, and
one of the finest speakers on the platform.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1883.


L. D. S. WOMEN'S MEETINGS.

	The Ladies' Conference at Provo commenced
August 30 ult., at 10 a.m., in the meeting
house. Mrs. Zina Young Williams, President
of Primary Associations of that Stake presid-
ing. Mrs. E. S. Taylor and Mrs. H. M. Whitney
of Salt Lake were present and addressed the
Conference.
	The Y. L. M. I. A. held their Conference in
the afternoon and evening, Mrs. Jane H. Tan-
ner presiding. President E. S. Taylor addressed
the meeting on subjects pertaining to their pro-
gress and advancement, urged them to live pure
and upright lives and keep the commandments
of God.
	August 31 the Relief Society Conference con-
vened at the same place at 10 a.m., Mrs. Mary
Johns, Counselor to Mrs. M. T. Smoot, presid-
ing, Sisters Eliza R. Snow Smith and E. B.
Wells were there to attend the meetings and ad-
dressed the sisters for a short time after the re-
ports had been given from all parts of the coun-
ty. These reports showed the Relief Society to
be in an exceedingly prosperous condition fi-
nancially. And each of the local sisters, those
who spoke, seemed to be growing and improv-
ing in spiritual things.
	In the afternoon Counselor John was neces-
sarily absent and by her request President E.
R. Snow Smith presided. Sisters Whitney,
Taylor and Wells each made a few remarks,
and then Sister Eliza R. S. Smith addressed the
congregation on various subjects of importance.
Sister Daniels made some remarks, and was fol-
lowed by Bishops Johnson and Madsen and
Mother Duke. During the afternoon Sister H.
A. B[-]ebee, President of Utah County Silk As-
sociation, gave an interesting account of the
progress made in silk culture. Sisters E. S.
Taylor and H. M. Whitney visited all the set-
tlements of Utah County south of Provo, hold-
ing meetings at Springville, Spanish Fork, Sa-
lem, Payson, Santaquin and Goshen. They
were absent nearly two weeks, and held twen-
ty-one meetings with the people in the county.
	On Wednesday, September 5, the Relief Socie-
ty Conference of Summit Stake was held at
Kama, Mrs. Mary J. Attwood presiding. Mrs.
E. Howard from Salt Lake was present and
addressed the meeting. The Y. L. M. I. A.
was held on the 6th, Mrs. Mary Rhead, Presi-
dent of Y. L. M. I. A. of Summit Stake, presi-
ing, Mrs. Howard giving instructions and en-
couraging the youg in the path of duty. Sept.
7 the Primary Conference was held, Mrs. Louie
Felt of the Salt Lake City, President of all the
Primary Associations, was present, and her re-
marks to the children were excellent and glad-
ly received. Mrs. Felt also accompanied Mrs.
Lovisa Roundy, the President of the Primary
Associations of Summit Stake, to one or two

[Column 2]
other places where they held meetings and
transacted some business in the interest of the
children.
	Thursday morning, Sept. 6, President E. R.
Snow Smith left the city on a visit to Box El-
der Co., and to attend the Ladies Conference
to be held in Brigham City. She will probably
stay at her brother's, Apostle Lorenzo Snow's,
two or three weeks. Sister Margaret P. Young
accompanied Sister E. R. S. S. to Brigham
City.
	Saturday and Sunday the Relief Society, Y.
L. M. I. A. and Primary of Tooele County held
their Conference at Tooele. Sisters E. Howard
and Rachel R. Grant of this city attended and
had an interesting time. The meetings were
presided over by their respective presidents.
Relief Society, Mrs. M. A. Hunter: Y. L. M. I.
A., Mrs. Ann Tate; Primary Ass'n, Mrs. Sarah
Hale.
	Tuesday, Sept. 11, a special meeting of the P.
A. of Union, S. L. Co., was held. M. I. Horne,
Lydia Ann Wells and E. C. Clawson of this
city were present. Bishop Phillips presided
over the meeting. A reorganization of the As-
sociation was effected.
	Wednesday the Relief Society of Union held
their annual meeting, Mrs. Elizabeth Richards
presiding. Present from the city, Mrs. M. I.
Horne and Mrs. M. W. Wilcox, both of whom
addressed the meeting.
	Friday morning, Sept. 14, Mrs. M. I. Horne
and Zina D. H. Young started for Sanpete to
meet with the sistesr of that Stake in their quar-
terly Conference at Ephraim on Saturday and
Sunday, 15 and 16. They will probably visit
Manti, Mount Pleasant and some other parts
of the county.


[For the Exponent.]
TWO BOOKS.

	Brother J. W. B. Jacobsen of Logan informs
me that he has the Agency for Utah Ter. for the
sale of books, entitled,

"FOR GIRLS,"
AND
"HOW TO FEED THE BABY."

	I have very carefully read specimen copie
of both, and find nothing in them but what
might have been written by Latter-day
Saints, and I heartily recommend them to
every household—not only as books to be read,
but to be studied and kept on hand for refer-
ence.	E. R. S. S.


[Column 1]
BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY.

	It is the 73rd anniversary of the birth of our
beloved and honored sister and mother in Isra-
el, Presendia L. Kimball. A goodly number of
the friends of this excellent lady have gathered
at her peaceful, quiet home in the 16th Ward,
as an acknowledgement of their appreciation of
her worth. They come with cheerful, happy
faces, their hearts full of blessings and baskets
of picnic. Sister Mary Gray takes charge of the
baskets and, with aids, arranges the tables pre-
paratory to lunch. No dinner ever surpasses a
well arranged picnic, (according to the writer’s
estimate) and such we partook of to-day. It is
not alone the ample repast which is provided to
satiate the appetite of the physical being, but
the pleasant chat, the kindly feeling and com-
pliments expressed, the soul-reviving senti-
ments which are sure to find utterance, and the
perfect freedom which exists around such tables,
that makes picnic dinners peculiarlly enjoya-
ble. Dinner over, we repaired to the cozy little
sitting room, and there resolve into a formal
meeting, over which Sister Phoebe Woodcuff

[Column 2]
being the senior lady present, is appointed to
preside. 
	Singing, “Come let us anew." Prayer by
Sister Lucy Russell. Sister Woodruff speaks of
the blessings surrounding us to-day, contrasting
these times to those in which her memory re-
calls, in connection with other similar events, a
day when one fine apple was given to her. This
apple she cut in four pieces, and each piece
served to make a dumpling for a dinner, and so
they had a good dinner each day for four days.
Sister Presendia saw such times; she has known
the trials and hardships through which the
Saints have passed, and now it is befitting that
her sisters should honor and bless her as they do
to-day. She has blest others all her life, and
may she be blest and live yet many years to
enjoy blessings upon this earth.
	Speeches follow from Sisters McLean, S. R.
Greene, Sanders, McAllister, Miss Vilate Cole,
Sisters Fanny Huntington, Fulmer, Miner,
Yure, Pyper, Pall, Paul, Dr. E. B. Furguson,
Buchannan, Brockhold, M. Gray, A. J. Hawley,
Rolfe, Harvey, Watmough, Emma Toone, Z.
D. Young, S. E. Russell and L. G. Richards.
	All ask blessings of long continued life and
happiness upon Sister Presendia; and testify to
the great power with which she is gifted in call-
ing down the blessings of God upon others, in
anointing and administering; also of her kind
and motherly disposition, her loving, sympa-
thetic nature, her wise counsel to the weak and
sorrowful, and her liberal heart and hands
toward all needing. The sisters are requested
to arise, and Sister Zina takes the lead in offer-
ing up petitions to the Almighty in behalf of
several friends who are seriously afflicted, to
which all unitedly responded Amen!
	Sister Presendia makes a brief speech. Her
heart is full of gratitude and blessings for her
sisters, and thankfulness to God. He blesses
her, she knows not how, only that she has what
she needs in the time thereof. She blesses her
sisters one and all, and hopes they are as happy
as their presence, with the favor of God, have
made her this day.
	She sits down, but is requested to take an-
other seat. She arises to comply with this re-
quest, and as she is about to take the chair
placed for her in the centre of the company, a
large and handsome winter cloak, appropriate
to her position and age, is thrown and wrapped
around her by Dr. Furguson, the instigator of
the plot. (This is not superfluous, my dear read-
ers, Sister Presendia had no comfortable winter
wrapper of any sort.)
	“This is too much!” said the “queen of the
day,” quite overcome. “Yes," responds one of
her court, coming forward for a kiss, “it is too
much and too warm for to-day, you are to wear
it next winter.”
	Then Sister Woodruff says, if we all want to
kiss “Aunt Presendia,” to do so, and then we
will dismiss. So we all kiss her while the cloak
is still around her.
	Perfect order is again established. We sing,
“Do what is right, let the consequence follow,"
and are dismissed with prayer by Sister E.
Toone. L. G. R.
	Salt Lake City, Sept. 7, 1883.


FOREIGN EXHIBITION.

	The Foreign Exhibition is, of course, the
great attraction in Boston this year. Through
the perseverance of Miss—and myself, and
on account of being connected with the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT and the courtesy of Miss
Nellie Brightman, Assistant Secretary, I had
the extreme pleasure of being shown through
the building, though at that time it was not
completed and consequently not easy to be ad-
mitted under any circumstances whatever. Af-


ter receiving my pass and a letter of introduc-
tion to a young gentleman inside, he very kind-
ly escorted me through the rooms and gave me
information in regard to the display. The main
building was superbly decorated with Turkish
and Persian rugs draped from ceiling to floor
and caught back with all colors and shades of
ribbon. This draping alone presents the most
gorgeous spectacle. Around this immense room
is a gallery in which each nation has its section
the lower floor is devoted to brilliant displays
from them all. It would be impossible to make
mention of the articles as they were so numer-
ous, and all so wonderfully wrought and beauti-
ful. Models in clay from Scandianavia, glass
ware, stone work, etc., etc., wonderfully made,
of which we have not space to tell. The hall
beyond was being fitted up for all manufactured
industries of every description, from confection-
ery stands to the exquisite glass and china paint-
ing from Germany, also lace work, machine
work and embroidery from all parts of the world.
All hands were busy here in packing and ar-
ranging. From this department we went up
into the Art room, and here the preparations
were almost completed; such a world of life,
so sublimely portrayed in marble and on canvas
that this seemed to me the most magnificent of
all. The placing and hanging was perfect in an
artistic point of view, and enabled the looker on
to observe aach one in particular as they were
arranged so that each gave new life and color to
the next. The pictures were mostly from Italy,
though Paris and Germany added their host of
beauties. There are many that we might men-
tion, but I fear my description would not be
vivid enough to enable the reader to imagine
them in all their grandeur, so I will only draw
attention to the one painted by the Princess
Louise, as this name alone would be sufficient
to call forth a great deal of curiosity. It is life
size and of a lady in meditation; there was a
grayness about the picture that made it inter-
esting to me, and quite objectionable to others
who were around me. The face was of noble
outline, regular features, no color abont it, and
gray eyes, the background and dress were gray,
which to me gave it a very sad, sweet look,
while some others who had seen it, I learned,
thought it too sombre. The statuary was ex-
quisite, and the display immense, one which I
recall very forcibly was of a child catching but-
terflies; this was beautiful beyond description,
I could go on mentioning one picture or piece of
statuary after another, but 'twould be in vain as
they all should be seen to be appreciated. There
was also in an adjoining room a wonderful dis-
play of tiles, statuary in bronze, needle work,
silk work, wood carving and everything; pro-
ducts, arts and manufactures of all nations. It
is needless to say that it will be a success, as all
the world are interested in it. It opens Septem-
ber 3, 1883, in remembrance of the Centennial
anniversary signing of the treaty of peace by
the representatives of the nations of the Uni-
ted States, Great Britain, France and Spain. In
some instances it is said, it will rival the Cen-
tennial and will be the first wholly FOREIGN
Fxhibition ever held in the world. It is under
the direction of the Foreign Exhibition Associa-
tion, Boston, Massachusetts, U. S. A. Incorpor-
ated 1882. The building in which the Exhibi-
tion takes place is quite central; it was erected
at the cost of over half a million dollars and was
constructed solely for this purpose.
								BEATRICE.
	Boston, August 27, 1883.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 61div="">WOMAN'S EXPONENT.				61
		
	div="">				WOMAN'S EXPONENT.				61


A VENERABLE WOMAN, which has been
omitted in the last two numbers, will be con-
tinued in our next.


[Column 1]
﻿LETTER IV.

BOSTON, August 25, 1883

MY DEAR FATHER:
	I got along famously with the Dickinsons, as
you no doubt have heard, and I hope you were
pleased with my visit.		*		*		*		*
	When I bade you good bye before leaving
home you seemed to feel a little frightened
about Belle and myself coming alone, but we
have gotten on wonderfully, and by being care-
ful and prudent have never had the slightest
difficulty, and all things have gone on so
smoothly that I often feel there is a special care
to guard us safely. I have constantly thought
of your telling me about your prayers whenever
you were journeying, and I have always prayed
for the safety of all. How mysteriously and
beautifully does God perform his work; I could
not but think of this as I sat in that meeting at
Amherst, to see the interest that is being taken
in hunting out genealogies, and how they had
worked, not knowing the why and wherefore,
only that they had that ardent desire to trace
the lines of their ancestry, they know not why.
Some of the gentlemen said they had spent the
greater part of their time for six years in this
way.
	We have succeeded in finding out some our-
selves, I am happy to say, some Dickinsons,
Woodwards and Whitneys. We are having a
delightful time and in our humble way, I trust,
doing some good in allaying prejudice. We
have a great many questions asked us and have
met a great many nice people; I constantly pray
for wisdom that I might be enabled to answer
any question correctly and in a manner that
would please both you and my dear mother.
	Boston is a grand, old city and we have en-
joyed our sight seeing so much to-day. I wish
you could have been here with us; so many
points of historical interest in which you above
all others take such delight, among the first is
Bunker's Hill and the monument, they kindly
pointed out to us the exact spot where the
breastworks were erected and the position of all
the troops, and the place where Gen. Warren
fell. We also saw here a copy of the real Bos-
ton news Letter, yellow and torn, it is placed
under a glass case outside the hall; we bought
a copy from the real one as a curiosity. At the
back of the monument is a statue of Prescott.
We next visited the soldiers' monument a short
distance from "the Hill." This is of white
stone and consists of three figures; one I suppose
to be the goddess of liberty with a wreath of
flowers in her hand, and just below on the right
a soldier equipped for battle ,on the left a sailor,
thus representing the navy and military depart-
ments. Next came the navy yard; how grand
the big vessels did look.		*		*		*
Our trip to Boston from New York yesterday,
especially up the Hudson river was grand, such
scenery, totally beyond my poor pen to describe.
We arrived in Boston this morning about 7
o'clock, and have been sight seeing all day, so
we are pretty well given out.		*		*		*
	Your loving daughter,			LOUIE.

				ST. LOUIS, Sept. 3, 1883.

MY DEAR MOTHER:
	In your last letter you said you were disap-
pointed at not hearing all about the dear old
places in New England, but really, although I
bathed in the same brook where Aunt Delia said
she thought you got your inspiration, still I did
not feel that I could do justice to the hallowed
spot.		*		*		*		*		*
	Aunt P. and D., Belle and myself ran over all
those dear hills, by the brook, over the moss
covered rocks, gathered ferns and berries just as
you did in that happy childhood of which you
have so often told us. O, how we all enjoyed

[Column 2]
it, Aunt D. told us so many sweet things about
your childhood, how once she led you all into
that very brook after you had held your little
meeting until she was tired, and how grandma
punished her for it. She laughed and cried as
she told it to me. None of us allowed ourselves
to get tired, but climbed up those dear old places
until we exhausted every favorite spot. We
took our lunch and ate it under the large pines
that grow in with the hemlocks at the back of
the house. Aunt P. and D. felt like children
that day, and it was really touching to see those
gray-haired sisters visiting the scenes of their
childhood. Who could write the volumes they
thought? Every now and then some pine nee-
dle or nut would drop on our heads, and how we
would start, and then our good aunts would
have some happy little incident to tell of when
they were girls, and the big tears stood in our
eyes many and many a time during that blessed
day. I shall have so much to tell you about old
places and friends. We went to the minister's
house, the parsonage where the minister, whose
wife you have told us so much about, lived, also
to Col. Whittaker's place and it is still very
grand thongh so old. Aunt Delia has sent you
such a nice picture of the old homestead; she
said it would remind you of many a happy day.
The old schoolhouse where you used to attend
school, and the very seat you sat in. I could
hardly tear myself away; in each place I staid
longer than any one for I loved to be alone, O,
why I cannot tell you, only that I seemed near-
er you and nearer the old days, and the silence
was sweet, you know how it is to feel thus, just
as we do when we visit the graves of those we
have loved, so I felt when I visited the places
once so dear to you. The little village church,
just the same old-fashioned seats and pews, and
we sang the Doxology there, for our hearts
were so full that we all had to give vent to our
feelings in some way. I stood just in the same
place where you once stood to sing and cousin
Lilian played the melodian. I never had seen
anything like it before, it was so old, but just as
sweet-toned as of yore, and many a tremble
there was in many a voice as we sang the good
old hymn. The folks all thought me so much
like you, dear mother, that they said they could
scarcely realize that they were not back again to
their childhood. The north pond where you
used to gather water lilies was just as beautiful
as ever, but I thought it too large to be called a
pond; there had been a great many lilies but
they had almost all closed up. It is as beautiful
as any thing I ever saw, such mossy banks, tall
frees, water lilies and boats made it so pictur-
esque that one could scarcely imagine it real.	*
	We visited so many of the old places, and
heard so many little incidents it all seemed so
real that we would be laughing and crying all
at the same time. The little juniper tree we
have so often heard you speak of is now a large
tree, and it is so beautiful, how I wish you could
see it. I broke off a branch for you.
	The next day we went to Petersham, where
you were born, and where the family home-
stead has remained for generations. What a de-
lightful spot it is! The once quiet village is
now a favorite summer resort, with many hand-
some hotels and numbers of the dear old houses
all filled with people, used as boarding houses.
We went to the old home where your father and
grandfather were born. We went through the
house from garret to cellar, into every nook and
corner, but we did not find any barrels of cider,
nor yet large quantities of honey or maple
sugar such as you have told us about, they are
gone now. Aunt Pallas knew everything for
she was older than aunt Delia, and she could
remember so much about the former days. How
many amusing things she did tell us of those


good,old times. She said she could see her grand-
father sit there just as he used to, and each one
in the old family circle. But they are all gone
now, and another generation of a very different
manner of living has possession, and the house
is kept by people just to preserve its identity.
We lunched in the very same old parlor where
your grandfather, great-grandfather and his
father used to sit and enjoy themselves socially
and entertain their friends. How very wonder-
ful it all seemed, there were the same old halls
and bedrooms, the antique fireplaces, and the
little corner ones in the bedrooms, cupboards
from ceiling to floor with their funny brass
handles, old and worn, and queer corner cup-
boards, too, such as I had never seen. Aunt P.
was very thoughtful and would every few min-
utes tell us some pretty little thing that caused
a merry laugh through the dear old halls; she
had not been there for a great many years, and
it was all as interesting to her as to us, who had
come so far to see the places so dear in the
memory of our mother. I made several sketches
there, the folks say they are quite natural. We
saw some people who remembered you when
a little girl trotting off to school. It did seem
so strange to us that they should recollect you
just as a little child.
	The places where the old factories stood are
much the same, but they are gone, though the
water still rolls on over its immense rocks. O,
those beautiful hills, brooks and meadows, how
I did see you gathering nuts and berries, and
running, bathing your face in the clear brook
that babbled on, Winter and Summer. Aunt
Della said 'twas all the same, you could never
feel right until you had run down to the brook
and bathed, "and that," she said to us, "is the
place where your mother drank in her inspira-
tion." She fancied she could see you under
those grand old trees with your dollies or some
fascinating book, and O how I watched you
trip through the meadows, over the hills, laugh-
ing and singing; I cannot tell you half I saw or
heard during those two days now, but will tell
you when I get home. I saw your old friend,
and she told us so much of your intimacy, and
her hair is still raven black and hangs in long
ringlets as when you knew her. She said, tell
you her happiest thoughts were of you and those
old days.		*		*		*		*		*
	I have so much to say about these things that
I could go on writing for ever, but I know I
must hurry as it is getting near time for us to
leave. In Boston we had an excellent time,
and though we were not there long thanks to
our relatives who knew every nook and corner
we saw Boston thoroughly. I forgot to tell you
before that we visited all the old graves at Pe-
tersham and I managed to get a great many
names and dates of the family. The cemetery
is a beautiful old place, and the ferns were al-
most as high as bushes. It had such a sweet,
sad charm for me on account of its being old-
fashioned and a little neglected, and I lingered
about the dear old graves until the party be-
came impatient. We repeated, "Three little
Graves," aunt P. remembered it so well, it
seemed so quiet and sacred that such a little
thing was really appropriate. There were many
other places we wanted to go to, but they all
took so much time and we were limited for time
and could not do more than we did. We are
going now to Atchison to see our relatives there
and then directly home, we shall be glad to
get home to you all again, I feel as if I could
scarcely wait.	*		*	Love to all.
						LOUIE WELLS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


FREE  LECTURES.
	Dr. Barney says she will give a number of
free lectures upon the subject of Medicine, or


the Laws of Life, and those interested in the
prevention of disease and prolongation of life,
and wish to become acquainted with some of its
laws are invited. Her first lecture will be
given in the 13th Ward Hall, October 9th, at 7
o'clock p.m., to to the Young Ladies' Mutual
Improvement Association.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

HEBER CITY.

Conference of the Relief Societies of Wasatch
Stake of Zion convened in Heber City Hall,
August 11th, 1883. Present on the stand were
President Emma Brown and her Counselors,
also the Presidents of the several societies.
Minutes of the last Conference read and ap-
proved. Reports were read by the secretaries,
showing the spirit of improvement. President
Brown made a few opening remarks; the sev-
eral presidents then represented their wards
in a very favorable condition. Sister Lucy
Young from St. George then addressed the
conference upon the principle of celestial mar-
riage, and related some of her experience in it.
Conference adjourned until two o'clock. Sing-
ing. Benediction by Bishop Foremann.
	Afternoon session. Meeting opened with the
usual exercises. Sister Young spoke to us
again in the afternoon. Spoke of the great
responsibility resting upon the fathers and
mothers in raising and training our children.
Our Father in heaven knows of our appoint-
ment, of our coming together to serve Him,
and He will be there by His Spirit to comfort
and instruct. That we should put our entire
dependence on our Father in heaven, both in
adversity and prosperity. He gives ns all we
enjoy, and we should say, "Thy will be done
in all things." Sister Young gave us very wise
and excellent counsel; urged the great necessi-
ty of going to the Temple to redeem our dead.
	President Hatch spoke a short time; was
pleased to know the Relief Societies were in a
good condition, and asked the blessing of the
Lord on all Israel. Conference adjourned for
three months. Singing. Benediction by
President Hatch.
			MARY BRONSON, Secretary.
			AVIS M. BRONSON, Ass't. Sec.


[Column 1]
CORRESPONDENCE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	By means of these great public conve-
niences, the Utah Central and Utah Northern
Railways, we are now enabled to return from
Logan in about a half a day, leaving that
point at 12.30 p.m. and arriving in Salt Lake
City at 7.40 p.m. on the same day. What a
difference from our wagon experiences of a few
years ago, when with jaded teams and more
jaded passengers the conveyances would take
three days between the two points. And this
was pretty good traveling too. But returning
from Logan we broke our journey at Brigham
City, and through the courtesy of Apostle Lo-
renzo Snow we remained over Sunday to at-
tend the Conference of Box Elder Stake. At
the morning service the speakers were Apostle
Carrington and Lorin Farr. In the afternoon
Apostle Lorenzo Snow and Elders Charles W.
Stayner and Charles O. Card occupied the
time. The remarks on Temple building were
particularly interesting to me, owing to my
late visit to the Logan Temple. It seems so
refreshing to hear historical facts in relation
to the building of the ancient Temples; and
even an account of their destruction in fulfil-
ment of prophecy is very strengthening to our
faith. In the adversity as in the prosperity of
God's people, we can see His great providences
made manifest, and learn a lesson which, if

[Column 2]
heeded, is fruitful of future blessings, I was
delighted with the prosperous appearance of
the northern cities. Their progress in building,
commerce and the general pursuits of a truly
civilized life; although the hated liquor traffic
forced upon the Loganites by the federal
court rulings is much to be regretted.
	Their schools, among which is that great In-
stitution, the Brigham Young College, are do-
ing much in training the young of those set-
tlements. This last named institution is partic-
ularly beneficial, owing to the fact that while
the Territorial District schools are debarred
from introducing any but secular studies, the
college endowed by the late President, is de-
signed to also instruct its students in the great
principles of the Gospel revealed to the Saints.
The educational faculties of this eminent place
of learning are not limited by consideration of
a merely political and financial character, as
are those of the schools established by law. I
deem this one of the greatest advantages of
the President's gifts to Northern Utah. While
the College embodies all that can be taught in
mere promiscuous establishments, under the
excellent watch care of Elder J. Z. Stewart
and Sister Ida Cook, it also nurtures that faith
in God which needs such tender training in
the minds of our youth. Too much can
scarcely be said on this important subject, to
encourage the establishment and maintenance
of such institutions in our midst.
	After a most pleasant, and I trust not un-
profitable visit, we returned in excellent
health and spirits, bringing with us the kind-
est remembrances of friends, prominent among
which were Sisters Preston and Martineau of
Logan, and Sister Snow of Brigham City.
		Your loving sister in the Gospel,
						E. M. STAYNER.

Salt Lake City, Aug, 1883.

MESA CITY, Aug. 27th, 1883.

DEAR EDITOR:

	In your favor of the 17th you express a
wish for me to write an article. I must say
you have a better opinion of my abilities than
I have myself, or you would not make such a
request. And the thought immediately came,
what could I write that would be anyway in-
teresting to your many intelligent readers, or
worthy of a place in your excellent paper.
Then I was reminded of the passage of Scrip-
ture referring to the several talents which the
Lord has given to His children; some more
and some less, and the consequnces if they
failed to improve upon these talents, and I rea-
lized that if I failed to improve upon the one
talent which I may possess it would be taken
away and given to the one who already has
ten and improves them. And who could I
blame? Nobody but myself. We are all
children of one Great Parent, and He in His
tender mercy has placed them upon this earth,
that they might, through obedience to His laws,
secure to themselves an eternal inheritance in
in the Kingdom of our God, and He has given
to us qualities which, if properly cultivated and
improved upon, will give us a knowledge of
right and wrong. So we are really left with-
out excuse if we transgress any of the known
laws of God. But Satan, that arch enemy of
all that is good and pure is on the alert con-
tinually to tempt and place obstacles in our
way to lead us astray from the pathway so
plainly pointed out by our leaders. And
wherein is our safety from his wiles? It is only
in a faithful adherence to our duties day by
day. Attending to our prayers, for this is
indeed the key to unlock the blessings of hea-
ven to His faithful children, for the Lord is in-
deed and in truth a prayer hearing God. Who
is there among the Saints of God but have had
some experience of this kind, who when trouble
and sorrows gathered thickly around them


and they have bowed themselves before their
Heavenly Father in a humble and contrite
manner, with faith in their hearts, (for without
faith it is impossible to please God) and ask for
assistance that has failed to receive comfort
and consolation?
	What a blessing to realize that we are ac-
cepted of God, and that we have one friend,
although all others should fail us; that we can
bow the knee, too, in time of trouble and af-
fliction, and how clear and smooth our pathway
seems; the rays of light and joy that pervade
the heart is like sunshine after a storm, such
peace, and joy, and love towards all mankind,
it is realy a foretaste of heaven; and no happi-
ness which wealth or worldly honors could
give would bear comparison with it.
	I have written these few thoughts at random,
and you are welcome to use them as you see fit.
The EXPONENT is always a welcome visitor,
and no pleasure which I receive is so great as
the perusal of it. May the blessings of heaven
attend you in your labors, is the prayer of
your sister,						S. M. P.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 63﻿


TO MY LITTLE SISTERS.

	I must try and call in my wandering mind
from the cares of life, and fulfil my promise to
my little sisters. I think of them so often
and am so pleased when I see them the subjects
spoken of, and engaged in making things for
the children's fair. I think of them as rose
buds blooming into life, fair and innocent, pre-
paring themselves for future usefulness in their
Father's Kingdom, to become Zion's bulwark
of industry in connection with their little
brothers, and when I read of the many little
things they make, which occupy their young
minds, and their little fingers active to accom-
plish some object, their faces beaming with
smiles, and oh, how happy they look and feel!
I look upon such as being the first and fore-
most to do the greatest good through the jour-
ney of life, and I hear those very li ttl girls
when at home, asking ma if there is not some
thing to do. Poor tired ma, shall I not do that?
and her little daughter can do many little
things to lighten the the burdens off her shoul-
ders, and make life to her comparatively easy.
A dutiful child makes a happy mother, and
gives her a joyful heart.
	My little friends listen to your teachers and
obey their good instructions; learn to be self
sustaining by cultivating tidy and industrious
habits, which will develop in you those pow-
ers of mind which you possess. Learn to be
neat sewers; there are a great many stitches in
plain needle work worth learning; hemming,
overhand, running seams, button hole stitch,
darning and patching. All this requires neat-
ness and practice. Little girls, get a knowledge
of all these things, and more, while you are
young, and when you are married women you
can in very deed be a help-meet to your hus-
band. Do not let your mind be carried away
by foolish fashions, but possess in youmelves a
stable mind, to be modest in your attire and a
determined will of your own to do and to act,
to please the noble and good, the honest at
heart, and holy beings who are not moved up-
on by the follies and weaknesses of human life;
make choice of that which will mould you for
a useful life and a noble woman. Our acts be-
speak our character, and bend the mind to
good or evil. Industrious habits, formed in
youth, make life's path pleasant and happy.
They lead out into broad fields of active
thought, where no idle time is spent; every mo-
ment of time should be employed to do good,
to help some one, even by the little folks; ma or
pa, brothers or sisters, if they are tired and
weary let them rest, and you do their part of
the work, and the Lord will bless you for so do-


ing, and say, "She putteth forth her hand to
acts of kindness and her name shall be honored
among the just." Read the truth in good
books, and lay up in store useful knowledge;
do not read fiction, as it weakens the memory,
the time is ill spent, and nothing gained to ele-
vate the soul.
	Let prayers direct you in all things, that by
the Holy Spirit you may be able to accomplish
much good, and make many nice things for the
next fair, and a nice written letter ot thanks to
your little brothers if they make you those
things I mentioned to put in your play-houses.
					MARY ANN PRATT.
	Salt Lake City, Sept. 8th.


[For the Exponent.]

INTRODUCTORY.

	In presenting the picture, REPRESENTATIVE
WOMEN OF DESERET, before the public, an
explanation may be appropriate, that the ob-
ject may be rightly understood. The picture
is intended to represent the L. D. S. Women's
Organization, rather than to draw attention to
those intellectual gifts and acquirements, which
in this connection are but secondary to the
spiritual or missionary labors of those repre-
sented.
	As in Salt Lake City is the head of these or-
ganizations, so these spiritual laborers were
selected by the precedence they hold.
	Throughout our Territory—indeed beyond
—are as many as sincere and faithful, noble
women, well deserving of every honor con-
tained therein; but there is, of necessity, a limit
in the present work, and that which would
have been a pleasure became an impossibility
at this time; but it is the purpose, in due sea-
son, to present another work which will be of
interest to our people.
	It is not the purpose of the compiler of
these sketches to furnish complete histories of
the subjects of the picture, to which this book
is merely an accompaniment to acquaint those
who may be strangers to them with an outline
of their labors and their virtues; to show, as it
were, what manner of women these "Mormons"
are. To do full justice to the originals would
require more space and ability than are mine.
But if the eyes of the stranger may be opened
to a knowledge of their purity, integrity and
faith in God, their heroic firmness and the
trials they have endured without wavering in
their allegiance to His cause, if any may be
convinced that this people are in earnest and
in the right, and that God is with them; if they
can realize that for men Mormonism is not a
cloak, a subterfuge and a selfish system, that
our women are not from the dregs of civiliza-
tion, led and controlled by stronger minds,
without a knowledge within themselves and
for themselves for their cause, it will prove a
joy and delight, a sweet return for my humble
but earnest efforts. O, that these truthful tes-
timonies, falling upon hearts that are as blocks
of ice toward us, might, like burning bullets,
melt their way therein, until, like Joseph's
brethren they would weep for injuries they have
done!
	And to the young of our people: if this
work shall cause them to appreciate their hon-
ored parents more by the nobility they have
proved, if it shall cause them to weigh the ob-
ject for which these sacrifices were endured
against the poor temptations of the present
time, if they shall question themselves—Shall
their sacrifices count for nought? shall their
example and their labors be lost on me, and
their hopes meet disapointment? If that com-
mand, "Honor thy father and thy mother,"
shall prevail and the sweet testimony of the
Holy Spirit convince and strengthen them in
the same faith and service unto their God, then
still sweeter and richer will be the reward.


That this work may go forth from my hum-
ble home as a missionary, a silent worker of
great good, is my fervent hope.
								A. J. C.


TO MY PATRONS:

	Owing to an unfavorable accident, and con-
sequent delay, the picture is not ready to de-
liver as I expected it would be before this time.
However, it will not be long now before you
receive both picture and book, which are in
progress in the hands of the publishers. I felt
that some must be growing anxious regarding
the matter, and that an explanation is due my
kind, benevolent friends.
	Yours very sincerely,
			AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.


WITH THE ZUNI INDIANS.

	Last summer when Mr Cushing went East
with the Zunis, he married a young lady at
Washington, to whom he had long been en-
gaged, and brought her back a bride to live in
an Indian hovel.
	He as compelled to join the tribe in order
to pursue his researches, for the Zunis are a
secretive people, and their religion and tradi-
tions are as secret as Masonry. After joining
them the leading men of the tribe endeavored
to persuade him to marry one of the dusky
maidens who sit around half naked in the sun,
mold pottery and weave blankets. And he
came near losing his influence with the Indians,
and even stood in danger of his life because of
his refusal to do so. Twice were women se-
lected for him, but he risked penalty of reject-
ing them, and would have fared badly but for
the protection of the native governor, who had
adopted him into his family and given him a
bed of sheep-skins in his rude home.
	Cushing told the Indians of his engagement
to a young lady in Washington, and of his in-
tention to marry her to live with them, and al-
though their preference would have been for
him to take a wife from the tribe, their gallant-
ry overcame their prejudice, and they received
the pale faced, brown-eyed bride with a respect-
ful and cordial welcome.
	Mrs. Cushing was the daughter of the late
Mr. Magill, who was for many years connected
with the venerable banking house of Lewis
Johnson & Co., of Washington, and was one
of the belles of the capital. Her devotion to
her husband runs parallel to his devotion to
science, for there are few girls would leave a
beautiful home at Washington for a mud hut
in an Indian pueblo, even for the men they
loved.
	A man or a woman who does not love luxu-
ry fails to reach or realize the privileges and
possibilities of existence; but he or she who
cannot dispense with luxury and enjoy rough-
ing it is a worthless weakling unfit for the tasks
and the triumphs that this great world offers.
Mr. Cushing belongs to that ancient fraternity,
the badge of which is always apparent, even
under the barbaric costume of the Zuni—the
honorable order of gentleman—and in his
rude surroundings and primitive accommoda-
tions every sign he gives detects this order to
which he belongs, and of which in Washing-
ton or in Zuni he will always be an orna-
ment.
	Mrs. Cushing does not enjoy life in Zuni as
her husband does. She does not and cannot
share his fascinations for the work in which he
is engaged. She hates the dirty women and
the naked children, and despises their filthy
ways, but she has made her mud hut a pretty
little paradise, and has developed the possibili-
ties of comfort even in Zuni.
	The clay walls of her rude house are hung


with blankets woven by the Zuni and Navajo
Indians, and compare in brilliancy of color tex-
ture, and design with the far-famed Gobelin
tapestries. The ceilings of undressed trunks
of trees are covered with bright figured cretons
and Japanese silks. The mud floor is strewn
with sheep skins, tanned by the Indians, that
are softer to the slippered foot than the rugs of
Oriental magnificence and ornaments selected
with refined taste, or framed with clever hands
after the models of decorative art, are hung
here and fastened there, and strewn every-
where. The Cushing residence is a mud hut
without, but within a bower of beauty.
	She has her sister, Miss Magill, with her,
who likes the Zunis better than Mrs. Cushing,
and is talking of adopting their peculiar dress
and joining their tribe.
	"I would do it," said Miss Magill; "it is so
funny and romantic, but I don't like to cut my
hair."
	Dr. Cushing, a brother of Frank, and his
wife are there as visitors, and Mr. Metcalf, the
well known artist of Boston.—Zuni (N. M.)
Cor. Chicago Inter Ocean.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The P.A. will be held in the Salt Lake As-
sembly Hall, Saturday, at 10 a.m., and
Y. L. M. I. A. at 2 p.m. at the same place.
	THE Primary Fair for the Associations of
Salt Lake Co. will open on Wednesday, the
10th inst., in President Young's schoolhouse,
just north of the Eagle Gate.
	THE Woman's Conference of this Stake will
be held Friday and Saturday, Sept. 21st and
22nd. The Relief Society meetings will con-
vene in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, com-
mencing at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m.
	Evan Stephens and his juvenile classes will
give an entertainment in the Salt Lake Theatre,
on or about the 22nd inst. It is anticipated
that the different nations will be represented
in costume and characteristic songs, similar to
those given on the 24th of July in the Taber-
nacle. The concert will be entirely for the
benefit of Mr. Stephens' classes. He deserves
to have a full house, and everyone who loves
music will get the worth of their money.
	The picture, "Representative Women of
Deseret," spoken of elsewhere, and the accom-
panying book of "Biographical Sketches," des-
igned by Mrs. A. J. Crocheron is something
original in its character. The picture repre-
sents the three distinct organizations, viz.:
Relief Society, Young Ladies Associations and
Primary Associations, not only by the portraits
of the officers, but by characteristic symbols.
Theology, Medicine, Literature, Art and Music
are also represented in the same way. The
drawing is by the lady herself, lithographed in
New York. Mrs. C. has displayed considerable
talent for drawing artistically, and the work
should certainly meet with encouragement on
that account, as well as perpetuating in the
memory the institutions and labors of the wo-
men in the Church.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Aunie E. Wilson and Isabella M. Leyburn
are the editors of the Electra, a literary maga-
zine just started in Louisville, Kentucky.
	The Association for the Advancement of
Women will hold their eleventh congress at
Chicago, October 17, 18, 19, at Hershey Hall,
Madison Street. 
	Women and Land, Mrs. Jennie C. Carr, 
Cal.; Duty of White Women of the North to
Black Women of the South, Mrs. Jennie
Marsh Parker, N. Y.; Labor and Capital, Mrs. 
Augusta Cooper, Bristol, N. Y.; The Women


of Utah, Mrs. Jeannie A. Froiseth, Utah; 
Hereditary, Rev. Antoinette Brown Blackwell,
N. J.; Benefits of Suffrage for Women, Mrs. 
Julia Ward Howe, R. I.; Historic Art, Mrs.
Mary E. Bagg, N. Y.; Mourning Garb, Julia
Holmes Smith, M. D., Ill.; Scientific Charity,
Mrs. Charles R. Lowell, N. Y.; Work of So-
ciety for Prevention of Cruelty to Children,
Mrs. H. L. T. Wolcott, Mass.; Work of the
Red Cross, Miss Clara Barton, Mass.; The In-
fringement of Personal Liberty by License,
Mrs. Mary A. Livermore, Mass.
	Entertainment for officers and speakers dur-
ing the congress will be provided, upon appli-
cation to Julia Holmes Smith, M. D., No. 390
LaSalle Street Chicago. All applications
should be made if possible before Sept. 15. 
	The post-office address for letters to members
of A. A. W. during the congress is Channing.
Club-room, 135 Wabash Avenue.
	The Chicago Women's Club will give a re-
ception to the congress at the Palmer House,
Wednesday, Oct. 17, at 9:30 p.m.
		JULIA WARD HOWE, President.
		KATE GANNETT WELLS, Secretary.


[Column 1]
ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
Office and Residence on 2d South between 3d
and 4d East Streets.

Special Study has been given to SURGERY, DISEASES
OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS.
☞ Can be Called by Telephone Day or Night.

For Sale at this Office.

BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.

PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,		-	25c. per copy.
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,		40c.	"
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1		-		$1.00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25 in morocco, -		1.50	"

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON.
Office and residence, South Temple Street, one
block and a half west of the Valley House.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.

KNITTING FACTORY,
On 1st W. St., Bet. 2d and 3d North, Next Door South of W. H. Hooper's.
Men's Socks, Ladies' and Childrens' Stockings, Infants
Knitted Shirts and Shoes, Ladies' and Children's Hoods,
etc. Family Knitting done on Reasonable Terms.
CAROLINE C. RALEIGH,
19th WARD, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

SCHOOL IN MIDWIFERY.

DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT

COMMENCES a new class in her office over Godbe &
Pitts' Drug Store October 8th, at 1 o'clock p.m.
This school was established in 1878. The Term of five
months, three lectures per week, is a practical course
for those who desire to enter at once into this work. It
is advised that those whose circumstances will admit,
attend a second course, for the subject is so comprehen-
sive that a repetition of the lectures is very advan-
tageous, especially to those of limited education.
	Other branches of medicine are taught only as they
bear especially upon this subject. More than that in so
limited a course would be too superficial. Manikin,
charts and instruments are used in teaching.
Tuition................................$30.00
Books..................................$13.00
	N.B.—Orders for books must be sent in early so as to
get them from the east in time.

[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
☞ We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

[Image of store]
HENRY DINWOODEY.

FURNITURE,
WALLPAPER,
CARPETS,FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUINS
AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALE LAKE CITY.

F. Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
☞ CALL AND EXAMINE. ☜


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 12.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 1, 1883.			No. 9.


WHEN HEAVEN'S SABLE GARB IS
SPREAD. 

"Night unto night showeth the knowledge of God;
the heavens declare His glory and the firmament show-
eth His handiwork; there is no speech nor language
where their voice is not heard."-DAVID.

When heaven's sable garb is spread,
And all is calm and still,
When, bright stars, glittering overhead,
The firmament do fill,
When full of majesty the moon
Mounts high upon her throne,
Then, oh I love my soul to tune,-
Jehovah's care to own!

I do not know why I should dwell
More on the things of God
When darkness, like a firm-bound spell,
Reigns overearth’s dark sod:
Yet then it seems a solemn, grand,	
Lends presence to the view,
And oh‘ I then do love to stand,
The works of God pursue!

Oft when the day of toil is done,	
And Nature is at rest,
When cares sink with the setting sun,
And all around seems blest,
I stand and gaze in yonder sky,
Where glitter orbs of light,
And feeble lips do fail when I
Attempt to tell the sight. 

Talk of man's works, inventions, schemes, 
And of his mighty power.
They are but baseless, empty dreams—
A fleeting, passing hour—
Compared with the eternal round,
The never-falling scene 
Of God’s grand works, that do surround
And everywhere are seen. 

Lo, take a single grain of .wheat,
Scan wrell its size and form,
Then with thy wisdom try complete
One like it, - uniform.
Or, ere the morning's sun does rise,	
Lo, take the sparkling dew,
And tell me if thou canst devise
A drop to match it true. 

You cannot, though your wisdom great
Seems wondrous here to man:
God’s works no one can imitate,
Though hard they think and plan.
Then as the sable garb of night
Each time the heaven spreads
I'll in Jehovah's works delight
Till life this body sheds.
					JAMES H. WALLIS.
Salt Lake City, Utah, Sept. 25th, 1883.


[Column 1]
AUTUMN, 1883.

HANNAH T. KING.

	Autumn ! calm, sweet Autumn is upon us, it
is a season in which the thinking mind is
drawn into deep reflection. The seasons, as
they roll interminably around, appear to me a
vivid picture of human life. January, with
its immobility, its shut up life, will portray
aptly the advent of the infant, the most help-
less and undemonstrative of all the young ani-
mal creation of God; every faculty is folded
up so closely that we cannot even guess what
sort of character it will ultimately develop;
but time rushes on, and behold Spring is here;
the infant has become a youth, life in all its

[Column 2]
young beauty; the being is all joy and gaiety;
it sees life through a jewelled lens, health and
strength invigorate the limbs, and the pure
blood rushes through the mysteriously organ-
ized system, and the heart and brain dance in
concert. Nature puts on her sweetest apparel
to welcome its presence, and the birds mount
their leafy tribunes and pour forth floods of
music to welcome youth and beauty. The
smile of heaven beams upon the earth, and the
very atmosphere breathes the ambrosial per-
fume of the scene; pleasure invites the youth—
the festive dance, with its sweet, soul-enliving
strains, call them out to revel in its maze;
health fans the cheek and invigorates the step,
and earth seems to them only a theatre for
their happiness and enjoyment. Like dissolv-
ing views, behold, before we are scarcely aware
of it, that scene has past forever to them.
Summer is here with all its rich profusion, na-
ture puts on her most gorgeous apparel, flow-
ers spring beneath her feet, and her head is
adorned with a chaplet of a thousand flowers.
The youth "of whom we spake" have grown to
maturity, they are now in full blown man
and womanhood. They have entered the are-
na of life, some are swallowed up in the vortex
of pleasure, which often is pain and sorrow in
domino, others are plodding on a rough road,
where thorns often pierce their feet and but
few flowers spring up in their pathway, yet
they press on and on, and perseverance and en-
durance make them heroic; and strange as it
may seem, yes, strange even to a paradox,
these are generally the chosen ones—the be
loved whom angels guard and help, and soften
their path by sweet invisible means, that cheers
the heart and makes strong the spirit, till en-
durance becomes a habit of daily wear; and
now and then they come upon an oasis in the
desert of life, on which they throw themselves
in sweet abandon, and experience such rich en-
joyment as the pampered denizens of wealth
can never realize. God is with them, there-
fore all is right. Others are in the mart or mer-
chandise, or the law courts, or the senate,
holding the reins and guiding the car of state
that strengthens and often builds a nation.
Others are poring over the midnight lamp,
making grand discoveries for future progres-
sion in arts and sciences, some bearing high-
sounding names that ring through the world
and make even nations tremble. Others work-
ing silently but unsleepingly, and their work
will yet upheave mountains, they are not
known or recognized by the magnates of the
world, but God's eye is upon them, and His
Spirit sustains and propels them. All, all are
employed in the complex laboratory of God's
wonderful and glorious creation in which
DESIGN is visible throughout the universe.
	Time unveils truth, seasons roll and change,
and all things are culminating to a fore-or-
dained terminus.
	Summer is past, and Autumn, sweet, pensive
Autumn is upon us with the world of wealth
that is her prerogative to shower down for the
children of earth to gather into the different
garners suitable to receive it, grain, fruit and
vegetables, food of every kind, all to be stored
away for the sustenance of the large family
of earth. Summer is past, and many are
saved and many are lost, or appear to be so,
but there is a future that will reveal secrets,
unravel gordian knots, remove mountains, and
make the rough places plain, when the judge of
all the earth shall come forth, holding his bal-

[Column 3]
ance even, and clothed with the robe of di-
vine justice, and by these shall the judges be
judged, and all the great rulers of the earth,
side by side with the obscure and the humble,
even to the mendicant. Wait, ye Latter-day
Saints, wait with patience, but with unsleeping
watchfulness; for verily you have a future!
	The autumn of life has now arrived, the hu-
man mind has attained its acme, is ripe and
concentrated. Those that we have reviewed
as youths and students, teachers and leaders,
have now matured into heads of houses and
families, fathers and mothers judges and coun-
selors, the honored, the beloved, and the re-
vered !
	One more season ! only one more on earth !
	Winter. Nature again prepares to fold her-
self up in the habiliments of death, seeming
death, who approaches and asserts his claim
and gently lays her down in apparent collapse,
but nature is infinite and immortal, she is
instinct with life, hence she calmly falls into
the arms of death, like a weary child on the
breast of its mother; she has a perfect knowl-
edge that he cannot hold her but for a little
season, she knows when her bosom's lord arises
in his warmth and splendor of invigorating
life, and breathes upon her inanimate form
and bids her arise and again put on her beau-
tiful robes of every hue and color, and come
forth to meet him, her lover and her lord, she
knows that death will flee away, and joyfully
she will obey the loved voice that summons
her to a glorious resurrection.
	And the human beings that we saw in the
glory of youth, where are they? Some passed
early off the stage, and the curtain of earthly
life hid them from our eyes, knowing nothing
of the wear and tear and turmoil of a long life;
others lived on to maturity, and they then also
passed away; but some live on to the evening
of life's little day, draining its cup of every
drop—many of them have filled up the mea-
sure of their days in usefulness, they have
been true and faithful to their God, to their as-
sociates, and to themselves ! Not perfect, oh,
no, none can be perfect in this probation, but
they desire it and they love and revere it; when
they possess it, when they obtain the society of
the perfect they will rejoice and feel at home
among such blest ones.
	Winter, yes, the evening of life has its
charms to the good who have led innocent,
peaceful lives, unspotted by the world, filling
the bill of life to the best of their ability, to
such the evening of life has its charms, and is
rich in blessings. If the elasticity of youth
is gone, if the glorious age of maturity and
vigor has passed, did not autumn reveal the
cornucopia that had been earned and now
pours forth its untold wealth for the worker?
To such the winter of life will bring a sweet
retrospect and also a sweet reward and a satis-
faction none can give or take away; to such
the evening of life is the sweet and glorious
sunset of a busy day, and the calm and the
peace, and the rest which is their right to take,
because they have earned it, is sweet and
calm as a summer morning; the smile of hea-
ven beams upon the workers, the laborers for
the good of all they come in contact with—
those that have ever built up and not des-
troyed, on such that beatific smile beams for
ever, they are simply waiting for the voice that
will whisper to them, "Come, ye blessed of my
Father, and enter into the joy of thy Lord."


66	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OUR TRIP THROUGH TOOELE.

	I feel prompted to do what I have many
times desired to do, but in consequence of
sickness and pressing duties it has seemed
next to impossible to snatch the time to give
proper expression to my thoughts and obser-
vations, dotted down last June while traveling
through Tooele Stake with Sisters Presendia
Kimball, of Salt Lake, President Mary Ann
Hunter, of Grantsville, Sister House, her Sec-
retary, and Sister Hale, President of the Prim-
ary Associations of that Stake, and Sisters
Warburton and Tate, of Tooele City; and I
feel it is due to the bretheren and sisters who
made us so welcome and took every pains to
forward us on our mission. Wherever we
went the same kind spirit prevailed. At the
close of a two days conference at Grantsville,
where we were greatly blessed and also grati-
fied by the presence of the Bishop and many
other bretheren Sister Kimball and myself
were taken to Tooele in company with Sisters
Tate and Warburton; the latter took me to
her home, where I was overwhelmed with kind-
ness by her, and also by the other Sister War-
burton. The moment I entered their door I
felt that I was in the house of my friends,
though previously we had been strangers to
each other.
	Sister Kimball was claimed by others of the
sisters, who had long known and loved her as
a mother in Israel. To me a ride in an easy
carriage is far more pleasant than the cars,
and I should fully appreciate one like this over
so smooth a road in the cool of the evening,
with a bracing breeze and the lovely perfume
from the wild flowers and the new mown hay,
which made it most delightful to me who had
been so long shut up in the city; I enjoyed the
whole trip through Rush Valley, it being all
new country to me.
	(The next morning Sister Kimball, myself
and a number of the sisters went to administer
to one who was very sick. Attended an inter-
esting conference of the Relief Society and
Young Ladies in the afternoon, and a very in-
teresting meeting of  the lady teachers which
was held at sister Warburton's in the evening,
where two or more afflicted ones were anointed
and prayed for.)
	Tuesday morning we started for Pine canyon,
where the same number of meetings were held.
Sister K. and myself rode with Sister Fredrica
Neilson, her husband leaving his work to ac-
company us; also Brother Tate. Sister Hunter
her secretary, and Brother and Sister Hale
met us there and they also accompanied us
through Rush Valley. On our return from
Pine Canyon, this being Sister Neilson's birth-
day, we were invited to stop and take tea with
them. She is one of the humblest of Saints.
They have a beautiful farm and a fine house;
are wealthy, I was told, and also that she came
here when a young girl, and since, quite a for-
tune having fallen on her in Sweden, she had
been back, not long since, to obtain it. And
certainly if she had been in the least dissatis-
fied with "Mormonism" or "Mormon" society,
might have remained there with her former
associates; but she would have sacrificed her
fortune rather than be deprived of the society
of the Saints in Utah, and the privileges and
blessings enjoyed here in Zion. I was told that
she had done a great deal for the Relief So-
ciety in that place. And, by the way, if all
who have grown wealthy here were possessed
of the same humble spirit there would be less
distinction shown between the rich and poor
in our midst.
	After returning that evening we went to ad-
minister to another afflicted sister.
	On the morning of the 20th we started for
St. John's arriving there a little after two where
we were welcomed by Bishop Burridge and
wife. After partaking of a sumptuous meal, 
which they had prepared, we adjourned to the
meeting house to attend R.S. meeting, then
the Primary, and it was really charming to see
and listen to the children's songs, recitations
and dialogues, and not one of them was un-
prepared. One of the least a pretty little
brunette of but five years astonished us; she
spoke a dialogue, and her elocutiou and acting
would have done honor to one of maturer
years. (We attended the Young Ladies Con-
ference in the evening, and next morning, after
the washing and anointing of a sister who was
lying very sick, we started for Vernon, where
we arrived between twelve and one, where of
course dinner was prepared.) Here we met with
the same warm welcome, and it was remarked,
that our meetings had increased in interest
from the first, and here it seemed as though we
had a still greater flow of the Holy Spirit.
Bishop Sharp, with a few other brethren, met
with us in conference, and they appeared high-
ly gratified, especially the Bishop, who ex-
pressed his pleasure in being visited by the sis-
ters, and thankful that he had attended the
conference; felt that he had been benefited by
hearing their teachings, counsels, etc.
	When this conference was dismissed those of
the Primary were on hand, and  were again
delighted with their sweet voices reciting their
fine pieces and singing the songs of Zion
which, by the by, were from Primary books,
published by Sister E.R. Snow Smith. These
were used in every settlement. One remarkable
feature  I noticed wherever we went was
the bright and pretty children. We witnessed
an excellent performance upon a large accor-
deon by a son of their President, Sister Esther
Bennion, aged twelve years. We took tea with
her, and in the mean time were treated to more
music, which was very charming. In the even-
ing a still more interesting meeting was held
at Sister Sharp's, President of the R.S. of
Vernon. I will here mention that Sister Kimball
and I were  guests, and the rest of our com-
pany put up at the Bishop's, who is the nephew
of Sister Sharp. (Though we had attended
three meetings each day and administered to
the sick and were up late every night, still we
were sustained, and in blessing we were blessed.
If we had been ministering angels I think
there could not have been more love and ap-
preciation manifested. Sister Sharp, who had
lately lost a daughter, had met with an accident,
and was in feeble health. She and a young
sister, her relative, desired to be washed and
anointed, which was done the morning before
we left; a daughter  of Sister Sharp's was also
blessed by Sister Kimball, whose mission seems
to be to bless and comfort the sick and afflicted.)
On our return we filled another appointment
at Clover Creek, where we were entertained
by Brother and Sister Stookey, and while par-
taking of the repast we were charmed by some
fine music, made by their little son, who played
very nicely upon the violin. This being the
sixth day we had traveled and held meetings
the sisters felt obliged to return home; there-
fore, but one meeting was held in this place,
commencing at two o'clock and lasting till half
past four, in which time a Relief Society was or-
ganized. Sister Jemima Stookey being appoint-
ed President, America Johnson, First Counsel-
or, Mary Davis Second; also a Secretary and
two Assistant Secretaries were appointed.
Sister Kimball spoke a short time, giving much
good counsel, and also Sister Hunter and two
or three others of the sisters, and one or two
brethren spoke. We had some very excellent
and encouraging remarks from the Bishop, Bro.
de St- Joer, who is an eloquent speaker as well
as one of the most humble of Saints.
	We left them feeling well stopped at Bp.
Burridge's in St. John's, as their son's wife de-
sired to be washed and anointed. When this
was done tea was ready, which we parteok of
and left at dusk, arriving in Tooele at ten
o'clock, where we first learned the shocking
news of the burning of the Council House, etc.,
which gave us very sad feelings, and we sat up
late talking of it and other events which are
casting their shadows before.
	(In the morning we were taken to administer
to  aged sister who who was very feeble; from
there to Bp. Atkins', where a daughter of his
was washed and anointed.) In the meantime a
sumptuous meal was prepared, which we had
barely time to partake of, the Bp. and his
carriage being in waiting to take Sister Presen-
dia Kimball and myself to the depot. It would
be useless to undertake to mention the names
of all those whom I formed so pleasant an ac-
quaintance with in  Grantsville, Tooele and
the other settlements in that Stake; but I will
sum them up as amoug the most choice jewels
of the earth; and though they may glitter less
brightly before the vain eyes of the world,
they are priceless, because they have been tried
in the furnace and proven, and they have the
ring of the true metal.
	In reading  the thousand and one gross
and malicious falsehoods, manufactured and
copied from one newspaper to another, for
the sole purpose of embittering the outside
world against this people, who founded Utah
and have beautified and made it desirable by
their united labor through years of toil and
privation, which could never be written, except
it be in the record that is kept above. I, who
know them to be false, having shared in the
privations, sorrows and sufferings of this peo-
ple from the very beginning, and know the
purity of their motives, cannot sit and hold my
peace. Why will they not see the truth, and
that those who mispresent us are peering
through the green eyes of that monster, which
had blinded them to every worthy deed, until
all our virtues are distorted and made to ap-
pear in the most hideous forms, and in their
o’er righteous zeal have sent commissioners to
punish us without trial, regardless of constitu-
tion and laws.
	This people have gathered here that they
might be able to enjoy their religion, and help
to build up Zion in fulfilment of prophecy,
which is considered a very great privilege, and
a right which they could not be persuaded to
relinquish; and thousands of the poor are
anxiously praying for the day to come when
they can gather up to Zion to dwell with God's
people, and none who are possessed of one
spark of truth of the spirit of Christ could
speak otherwise than in praise of a people who
have exhibited such proofs of benevolence and
Christian philanthropy towards mankind.
		More anon, from yours etc.
				HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
	Sept. 10th, 1883.


MISCELLANEOUS.

A picture of a ruined castle on the Rhine,
painted by a blind girl, is on exhibition in
Paris, and attracts a good deal of attention.
	Mrs. Mary A. Livermore has collected in a
volume her Lectures on Women, and it will
soon he published by Lee & Shepard, under
the title of "What Shall we do with our
Daughters?—Superfluous Women, and other
Lectures."
	The man was dust, refined, but the woman
was dust double-refined,—one remove farther
from the earth. The woman was made of a rib
out of the side of Adam,—not made out of his
head to top him, nor out of his feet to be tram-
pled upon by him, but out of his side to be
equal with him, under his arm to be protected,
and near his heart to be beloved.—Matthew
Henry.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LINES OF APPRECIATION.

TO MY KIND AND ESTEEMED FRIEND, SISTER
HANNAH T. KING.

Were I inspired a moment by the Muse,
That moment with an eager grasp I'd use
To writs in comely rhyming words to thee
My gratitude for kindness shown to me.
Thou didst not give me shelter, food, or drink,
Nor gold or silver with their magic chink,
Nor empty titles on me didst bestow—
As queens and monarchs oft their favors show—
But with a heart to kindness ever keen
A nobler guerdon for me thou didst glean,
A lovely group of ever living flowers,
Fresh and bedew'd with cooling summer showers.

"Appreciation"—sweetest flower of all—
	Surrounded by a group of "kindred thoughts,"
While "wishes kind" and "blessings pure" did fall
	In graceful wreaths around, with beauty fraught.
As earthly flowers when deftly grouped with care
	Would to the eye a magic charm impart,
So pleasing (only more) this present rare,
	Enchanted every chord within my heart
And as the giver—if he be beloved
	Lends more enchantment to the treasure gained—
So now with me, my heart was sooner moved
	That thou to praise my humble efforts deigned,
Thou whom I know enjoy the purest thoughts,
	Communion with the muses all divine,
Nay, inspiration's self thy mind hath taught,
	And thou could'st still enjoy that effort mind;
And then to know (from feelings there expressed)
	That thou didst realize the task of love
Which I have taken at my own behest,
	At which untiring still I hope to prove.
"A work of love," indeed, 'tis doubly so.
	For love I work, with love I am repaid,
And though I love the work itself, I know
	This love is born of loving my sweet aids.
The children (Heaven ever bless them all)
	Give their sweet smiles of love so free from guile,
While these are mind I'm happy in my thrall,
	However tiring be my task the while.
O, could I lead them onward, upward still
	To heights where masters tune the sacred song,
To revel in those mighty strains until
	To them the mastery of sound belong.

Alas! poor me! such hopes must soon decay;
	Such glorious aims I know can ne'er be won,
Too many obstacles bestrew my way,
	The grave will hold me, ere the half be done.
The strength and mind I fain would all devote
	To this loved task so dear unto my heart
Are daily wasted both by act and thought
	To clear a way for progress in my art.
And thus 'twill be while doing all I can
	I'll e're have this sad thought to think upon—
As o'er my labors past at length I scan—
	Had I the chance how much I might have done!
But as the acts of life pass one by one,
	And joys and sorrows past I shall review,
One spot of sunshine (and outshone by none)
	Shall be this act of kindness done by you.
And (if God wills it) may I yet assist
	To make the youth of Zion skilled in song,
And may you yet in rapture sit and list
	To our sweet songsters when ten thousand strong.

The Muse (offended at my boldness) would not come,
	And left my heart to tell as best it could
Whate'er it felt, so if I stumbling roam
'Mong flighty thoughts, forgive! I'm not at home
	In poet-land, O could I be I would.

	EVAN STEPHENS.
Salt Lake City, August 30th, 1833.


[Column 1]
A VENERABLE WOMAN.
PRESENDIA LATHROP KIMBALL.
[Continued.]
	“My health was very delicate, so much so,
that during the winter of 1850 I was under
the necessity of keeping a girl to wait upon
me. Sophia Curtis lived with me and took
care of me, she was so good and kind. My
husband thought I might die at any moment,
and told his family he did not know when I
might be taken away. In fact I feel

[Column 2]
assured it was only through mighty faith that I
was healed. During my severe illness the
Lord showed me many marvelous things and
I sang praises to Him on my bed of affliction,
as did the Psalmist of old. I cried and com-
posed as I sang. I told my feelings to Presi-
dent Kimball, and also what I saw and heard.
The Lord has been very good to me in the 
midst of deep trials, and I thank Him. he
has hitherto upheld and sustained me in the
hour of deep affliction. He has manifested
tenderness and mercy and given me strength
equal to the day.”
	“In the Spring the work of giving endow-
ments commenced and President Young called
Sister E. A. Whitney and myself to officiate
in the ordinances of the House of the Lord.
The position seemed as natural to me, as if I
had always been accustomed to it. We both
enjoyed the labor very much for we loved the
work and the Lord blest us with His Spirit.
We seemed to live above everything earthly or
trivial while engaged in those spiritual duties,
and we had many comforting dreams as well
as other manifestations that the Lord approved
of our ministrations. O, it is heavenly to be
thus employed; angels seemed to watch over
us, for had we not made every sacrifice will-
ingly that we might serve our Father in hea-
ven and keep His holy commandments? Sis-
ter Whitney was abundantly blest with gifts
and graces in spiritual things, and I loved her
as my mother, a mother in Israel to all the
daughters in Zion, and especially those who
had entered into the new and everlasting cov-
enant. One night she dreamed that we went
to the Council House where we officiated and
that I went into the large room and apparent-
ly danced in space, for I did not touch the
lloor, but kept above it. She said I was per-
fectly transparent, and there was not a spot or
blemish of any sort upon my body. Sister
Whitney stood against the door herself, as she
thought, so that no one should interrupt me
until I had concluded my dance. This was a
good testimony to me and also to her that I
was fit to minister in the holy ordinances. It
is not good to be too visionary, or place too
much confidence in dreams, but there are some
dreams that are given for the comfort and en-
couragement of the dreamer that strengthen
our faith and help us to bear the trials of life
and overcome the various obstacles that are
continually thrown in the way of the Saints.
In looking back over those days, I realize how
the Lord marked out my way and the bless-
ings that He poured out upon me, and I feel to
thank Him that He preserved me in many
strait and narrow places, and that my feet nev-
er slipped, though the way was sometimes dan-
gerous, for trials were plentiful in those days
and one needed to be on the alert, lest he be
taken unawares and fall through murmuring
or in an unguarded moment. My health kept
on improving every day, my spirit was cheered
and buoyed up and I seemed to take a new
lease of life.
	“About this time Dr. Willard Richards or-
ganized “the board of health,” and I was one
of the first to join and attend the lectures.
This was exceedingly interesting and opened
up a new field of labor and channel of im-
provement to the sisters. I shall always look
upon it as one of the greatest blessings to the
women of this people. Dr. Richards took the
utmost pains to instruct us and teach us con-
cerning the origin of life and the wonderful
organism of the human body.”


EXTRACT FROM A LETTER.
MRS. B. M. JOHNSON TO HER SISTER.
We are now not more than one and a half
miles from Tempe, but it seems like another
conntry. One evening, since we came over
here, I climbed up an eminence, not a high
one either, and had my first view of the coun-
try; and, truly, I never saw a lovlier sight;
in all directions was a country covered with
green, for although no grass grows, unless
planted, bright shrubs and brush grow thick
everywhere, with the native trees, mesquet,
pala verda, desert willow (a lovely thing
covered with delicate flowers), and several
other varieties. The course of the river is
marked by larger trees, cottonwood, and black
willow. Looking south the the scene is espec-
ially beautiful; the farms, ranches and the
trees of the Gila, some fifteen miles away, and
far away, so far that it is veiled in blue mist,
one large mountain, and farther south-east a
lower chain, but evidently belonging to the
same range. You know we got an idea that
there were no mountains here. Well, you
can't go amiss for them, low and high,
in ranges and just tumbled about promiscuous
like. They say the view from the top of Hay-
den's Peak is magnificient, as you can see
both sides of the valley; I could not help wish-
ing you were with us. One Sunday evening,
as we were coming over from Tempe, we stop-
ped in the middle of the river to let the horses
drink, and looking down the river was a most
beautiful scene. I could not describe it, but I
never saw a lovelier. You speak of ruins.
Yes, the country is full of them, but I have
not seen any of them yet, except an old canal
course, although we have some quite near us;
not more than a mile and a half are the ruins
of quite a large town, one building still stands
as high as our tent. East, about a mile, are
the ruins of an old fort; neither Indians nor
Mexicans know anything about their origin.
The most imposing ruins are the Casa Grande,
about thirty miles from Maricopa, a building
covering near five acres; room after room open-
ing one into another, with a large court-yard
in the contres walls still standing from ten to
eighteen feet. The building is made of con-
crete, and the Indians say that three hundred
years ago it was nearly perfect, being another
story high; they say there is still some very
fine plastering and painting to be seen on the
walls; this is of course from hearsay, but from
those who have been there. Not far from
Phoenix are said to be whole rows of houses
cut away up in the solid rock, with no visible
mode of entrance, and there is a story going of
late of a cave being found with a door, which,
when forced open, unlocked such a stench
that they were glad to close it again without
further exploration; this I do not give only as
a rumor. About thirty miles east from Mesa
are the Superstition Mountains, that no Indian
will set his foot upon; they say that long ago
three hundred Indians went up into them and
were never seen or heard from any more; that
when others went in search of them they found
the mountains covered with bones and strange
writings upon the rocks, that when they ap-
proached what appeared to be piles of rocks,
they would melt away, and the place would be
filled with little men. People who have been
there say the mountains are full of caves and
are gloomy and desolate enough to almost war-
rant belief in the superstition; and the strange
characters are actually there on the rocks.  I
find I have made a mistake about the location
of those rock houses; the rumored cave is twen-
ty-five miles from Phoenix, the houses hewn in
the face of the rock are on Eagle River, at the
head waters of the Gila; the large plateau of
level land above the canyon where they are
found  literally covered with ruins. I send
you some Arizona tooth-picks, specimens of
the protection that nature furnishes the giant
cactus that are thick around here, from the
baby just poking its burly head out of the 
ground, to the hardened veteran with his full
complement of forks and crotches.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,   Editor.

Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
#1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising'
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z.C.M.
I., East Temple Street. Business ours from 10 a.m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
Address all business communicatoins to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, OCTOBER 1, 1883.


ZION IS GROWING.
Conference is just at hand, and the city is al-
ready teeming with visitors and people hurry-
ing to get their trading and business of various
kinds done before the 6th of October. No doubt
it will be one of the busiest, as well as one of
the most pleasant conference gatherings that we
have had. The city is growing in beauty and
importance, and the Church itself, notwith-
standing all the powers arrayed against it, is
steadily, yes, rapidly advancing in power and
influence; in fact Zion is becoming established
in the tops of the mountains, and people from
all nations are coming to see and to hear and to
learn of that which they have heard every-
where spoken evil of.
Here in the midst of the Saints are those most
opposed, and most bitter against the progress
and advancement of the work, God has sought to
accomplish in this day and time. Every inven-
tion Satan is capable of manufacturing seems to
be used to destroy the Church, and bring the
Saints into disrepute. No slander is too infam-
ous, no falsehood too malicious to be published
and circulated against this people. And yet
they pass by it almost invariably in silence, for
to attempt to contradict these wicked misrepre-
sentations would occupy mere time than any of
this bnsy people can afford. Thore is too much
labor on hand to assist in rolling forth the King-
dom, to take any precious time to refute false
statements, unless it was positively necessary to
do so. The Mormons will live and prosper, and
no power on earth can hinder the Lord’s work
that He has set His hand to do. It is this im-
plicit faith and trust in divine power that unites
this people and gives them that confidence in
Jehovah’s protection that no amount of persecu-
tion, drivings or death itself can destroy.


WOMAN'S WORK.
	On a Friday afternoon, September 21st, we left
the city for Nephi, accompanied by Mrs H. M.
Whitney to attend the Woman's Conference of
the Juab Stake.
	On Saturday morning, Sept. 22nd, at 10 a.m.
conference opened in the meeting house, which
was beautifully decorated with pictures, ever-
greens, etc. President Paxman and his Counselor,
Joel Grover, Bishop Udall and many other breth-
ren were present, Mrs, Elizabeth Kendall pre-
siding. The minutes and reports were good, and
the speaking by the several presidents was
practical and appropriate, the singing heavenly.
In the afternoon, after some further speaking
from the sisters, Pres. Paxman made some ex-
planatory remarks upon the need of a complete
organization, rendered necessary by the demise
of Mrs. Amelia Goldsbrough, who had presided
over the Relief Society of the Stake. Pres. Pax-
man then nominated Mrs. Mary Pitchforth for
President, to fill the vacancy caused by the
death of the late lamented Mrs. Goldsbrough.
The nomination was sustained by the unani-
mous vote of the conference. The other officers
nominated were as follows: Counselors to the
President, Mrs. Amy L. Bigler and Mrs. Nico-
lena Brown; Secretary, Mrs. Mary Hoyl; Treas-
urer, Mrs. Thirza Maria Vickors. These received
the unanimous vote of the congregation. The
Relief Society of Nephi was also reorganized,
with Mrs. Maranda Bryan, President; Mrs. R.
K. Udall and Mrs. Ann Midgeley, Counselors;
Mrs. M. E. Teasdale, Secretary; Mrs. Hannah
Grover, Assistant Secretary; Mrs. Charlote
Evans, Treasurer; Mrs. Julia Bryan, Assistant
Treasurer A vote of thanks was tendered to
Sisters Elizabeth Kendall and Jane Picton,
Counselors to the late President, for their faith-
ful, diligent and efficient labors in the Stake
among the Society.
	Sunday morning the Primary Conference was
held in the meeting house. Hundreds of beau-
tiful, bright, intelligent children were assembled,
and many of the parents and others, Mrs. Han-
nah Grover presiding. The exercises were ex-
cellent and very well rendered; a manuscript
paper, called "The Busy Bee," was read by one
of the girls, which was well worthy of praise.
The articles were really very good for little folks.
Some very sweet singing from the children add-
ed much to the enjoyment of the occasion.
	THE afternoon was devoted to the Y. L. M. I.
A. They, too, had a paper read, it is entitled
“The Young Ladies Journal," and it contained
excellent advice and instruction to the youth of
Zion. There were several very creditable spirit-
ual exercise, and the tenor of all tended towards
genuine improvement. In the evening there
was a conjoint session of the  Y. L's. and Y. M's.
Associations, and the meeting was intensely in-
teresting. One particular feature of it was a
Bible exercise of the history of St. Paul, and
incidents of the lives of the apostles of Jesus,
which was given by Mrs. M. E. Teasdale in
such a pleasing and graphic manner as to be
most instructive as well as enjoyable.
	A Primary Fair was open during the time of
the conference, and there were on exhibition
many very handsome and creditable articles
made by the little boys and girls; also vegetables
of the best quality in the market raised by the
little boys. There was almost every variety of
needle work, from the plainest, neatly executed,
to the finest embroidery and elaborate fancy
work. Quilts and crochet work in great abun-
dance. Artificial flowers, wool, wax and hair;
fancy baskets, and many varieties of useful and
ornamental articles too numerous to mention.
	The Relief Society of Nephi, which has for
some years past been under the supervision of
Mrs. Mary Pitchforth, President, is indeed in a
thriving condition. The sisters own a lot con-
sisting of an acre of land in the suburbs of the
city, and have taken great pains to set out mul-
berry trees upon it; many of them, however,
have been winter-killed again and again, but
nothing seems to discourage these zealous labor-
ers in Zion's cause. They have also peach and
apricot trees bearing fruit there. A comfortable
log house is used for an old lady dependant for
support, and this year the Society has built two
very commodious rooms for the needy poor; the
house is of adobies and well finished, large glass
in the windows and everything quite modern.
The dimentions of the house are 30x16 feet, and
and it is well finished off even to the painting.
It shows what energy and perseverance can ac-
complish when the heart is in the work; for all
this has not been done without practical labor
and executive ability. The Relief Society own
a very good hall of their own, which they built
some time ago, and it has a good sized store-
room at the back with a cook stove in it, where
the donations are received on the day of the
meeting, and up stairs over this room is another,
with a very large cupboard, a sort of wardrobe,
where quilts, blankets, and such necessary com-
forts are kept until distributed, and in fact they
seem to have a good stock on hand; there is also
a cellar below for vegetables and wood. The sis-
ters own, in addition to this, a granary for the
wheat they are storing for a day of need. Cer-
tainly the example of these noble women is
worthy of imitation, and we know there are
many others engaged in similar laudable work.
and yet the world look upon the women of Zion
as degraded and drown trodden.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	WE have received from the publishers the
Directory of Ogden City and Weber County
a book of 214 pages. It is a very credit-
able work and must certainly be of great
advantage, not only to the city and county,
but to all individuals engaged in business
of any kind; to visitors and business men
who come from a distance. It seems to be as
perfect in detail as it is possible to get a book of
this kind, giving everything that the most curi-
ous or inquisitive need to know of the place and
the people.
	It is certainly a commendable little enterprise,
and the publishers deserve great praise for the
correct and careful manner in which it is com-
piled and edited.
	MRS. HELEN JACKSON, of Colorado Springs,
paid a brief visit to our city recently, accom-
panied by Mrs J. E. Mylne, of London, who is
spending a few months in America. Both are
ladies of culture and are much interested in our
principles and institutions. Mrs. Jackson has
visited Salt Lake before, and found so much of
interest here that she felt she must come again.
No doubt many of our readers know the cele-
brated H. H., who has written regularly many
years for “The Independent.” She is also a con-
tributor to The Century Magazine, and has
written several books, among which are "The
Century of Dishonor," "Vorses," "Bits of Travel
in Foreign Lands," "Travels at Home," etc.
Mrs. Jackson has carefully investigated the In-
dian question and rendered good service to the-
governement by making some astounding dis-
coveries of the treatment of the Indians by
those sent among them, etc. Her book, "The
Century of Dishonor," is upon this subject, and
well deserves patronage. She is a woman of
brilliant talent and greatly gifted in conversa-
tion.
	The Conference of Y. L. M. I. A. of this
Stake was held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall,
Saturday, Sept. 22nd, commencing at 2 p.m.,
Mrs. Mary A. Freeze presiding. After the ex-
ercises of singing and prayer, reports were given
by the presidents from some of the wards, and
then Mrs. Freeze addressed the meeting on sub
jects of vital importance to the young. Miss
Mattiie Horne spoke upon obedience and faith,
thought our religion comprehended everything,
urged advancement in intelligence, alluded to
the power and influence of evil spirits, also
spoke of the great value of time.
	Dr. R. B. Pratt made some good remarks upon
the importance of understanding the first prin-
ciples of the Gospel, said we must make our-
selves fit temples for the indwelling of the
Spirit of God, spoke upon purity and the pro-
tection of virtue, urged mothers to watch over
their children, and felt greatly impressed to ad-
dress young girls on such subjects as pertain to
purity of life and character. Spoke upon the


laws of life, and how necessary it was for our
young ladies to understand their physical organ-
ization and not transgress any of the laws of na-
ture; after all it is not only knowing the right
but doing it.
	Pres. Freeze made some closing remarks and
the conference was adjourned for three months.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


VISIT TO SANPETE.
	I left Salt Lake City Friday morning, Sept.
7, at Provo was joined by Sister Zina D. H.
Young. Arrived at Nephi we were met by
Pres. Paxman, took dinner at Sister Pitchforth's.
After dinner took the narrow gauge road to
Wales. Br. Franzten was there to meet us, and
we drove over to Spring City, arriving there
about 5 p m. The Sanpete Ladies Conference
was held at Mt. Pleasant, on Saturday at 10
o'clock a.m. and 2 p.m. From there we drove
over to Fairview and held meeting at 7 p.m.
	Sunday morning met with the Sunday School
at Mt. Pleasant, and also the Primary Associa.
tions. Held meeting in the evening at Spring
City at 7 o'clock.
	Monday we went to Ephraim, met with the
Relief Society at 2 p.m., the Primary Associa-
tions at 5 p.m. The children of the two Asso-
ciations at that place have gleaned this season
30 bushels of wheat.
	Tuesday we rode over to Manti, saw the beau-
tiful Temple and went all through it. Held
meeting there with the sisters. Then drove to
Mayfield, and held meeting at 7 p.m.
	Wednesday went to Gunnison, met with the
sisters at 10 o'clock, and from there went on to
Fayette and held meeting in the evening.
	Thursday morning drove over to Juab, 22
miles, and took the train for home. At Provo
Sister Zina stopped to visit for a few days, and I
returned to Salt Lake. Pres. Peterson traveled
with us the entire trip through the Stake. The
visit to Sanpete was one of the best and most
enjoyable of any I have ever taken. Every-
where the good spirit seemed to be poured out
in rich abundance, and both brethren and sis-
ters, as well as the children seemed more than
glad to welcome us to their midst. The sisters
in that locality are doing well and enjoying
their labors, and are ready for any good work or
laudable enterprise to help in the progress of the
Kingdom of God upon the earth. We shall re-
member with much pleasure our sojourn among
them, though our time was very limited. They
are a good, industrious and upright people.
May the Lord bless them in all their efforts is
my prayer.M. ISABELLA HORNE.


PRIMARY FAIR.
	THE Primary Associations of Salt Lake Coun-
ty held a very pleasing little Fair in President
Young's School House, 18th, Ward, beginning
Wednesday, September 20th. In all respects it
was a delightful showing of the handiwork of
the children. Each ward of the County had its
own stand, and each one held articles of peculiar
interest. To enumerate them, or classify them
would be utterly impossible; but the display testi-
fied the deftness of the little hands, and showed
how industrious all must have been to accom-
plish so much. There were displayed all kinds
of delicate work, from the most beautiful em-
broidery and painting down to the ordinary
darning, patching and cooking.
	One piece of work, deserving special mention,
was the piecing of blocks enough for a large
quilt; done by a little girl only four years old, of
the 3rd Ward Primary. The work was so beau-
tifully executed that the prize of a rocking chair,
given by Mr. Glass, was awarded to the tiny


seamstress. It was quite marvellous what the
little ones could do in the way of bread and
cake making. A very nice quilt, shown on this
occasion, was made and donated to the Temple
by the Draper Association.
	Though the girls had a greater display, the
boys came in for a large share of the praise.
There were some splendid samples of their
gardening, and one little fellow exhibited a very
fine bridle he had made. Among the patchwork
exhibited by the 8th Ward were some blocks
made by some very small boys, and they were
as nicely sewn as those the girls did. It is neces-
sary for the boys to learn to sew, and those little
fellows may well be proud of their first attempt.
	A pretty piece of music was composed by a
little girl of the 13th Ward, and on Saturday
afternoon she delighted the visitors by playing it
for them. This, with many other exhibits,
showed what great talent and genius there is
among the children. We hope the little ones
will continue in their good work.
	One thing deserving special notice was a calen-
dar of notable events in Church History. 33
pages of legal cap paper closely written, by a lit-
tle girl in the 15th Ward, aged 10 years. It
gives evidence of unusual ability and decided
tendency to spiritual influences, remarkable in
one so young.
	Many nice prizes were given by different
ladies and gentleman of the city. Such ones as
to give encouragement to the children.
							A. W. C.


WOMAN'S VOICE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We had our conference, as you are aware, the
second and third of August. We had a good
time together, the Spirit of the Lord was with
us, and many good instructions were given from
the sisters as well as from the brethren who
spoke. We were very much disappointed in not
having you come to visit us; in particular the
Primary children; their little hearts rejoiced
when we told them that you were coming to
speak to them, and after that they had heard
that the railroad was washed away, yet when
we went to our Primary meeting Saturday after-
noon, my little boy asked me if the sisters from
the city would not be there to speak to them.
I feel in my heart to ask God to bless the Prim-
ary children; they are but few here in Castle
Dale, but they are bright and intelligent children,
and they have improved greatly in the short
time since they were organized. It seems the
time passes along very swift, and every moment
ought to be precious to us; a moment is but a
small fraction of time, yet moments make up
the threescore years and ten allotted to mortal
existence, and few reach that period; they drop
all the way along, from early time down to old
age; though to some there are a few more years
allotted, but when the last day comes, whether
early or late, it is useless to plead for more time
to close up unfinished business; therefore let us
use the time and the talents the Lord has given
unto us to help to build up His Kingdom; and
listen to the small voice of the angel of time,
that follows us from our early days and whispers,
prepare! Let us live our religion and honor the
name of Latter-day Saint.
	May God bless all my sisters who work for the
advancement of the Kingdom of God. I wish
success to your paper, that it may be circulated
among the Saints to cheer and bless the sisters
of Zion.			CAROLINE A. LARSON.
	Castle Dale, Aug. 12, 1883.


There is none so homely .but loves a looking
glass.--South.


MARRIAGE.
	Was there ever a young lady who did not
think more or less about marrying? And was
there ever one who did not picture in her own
mind at any rate what kind of a man the
"lucky one" should be? Girls talk in a joke
about their "fellows," and have a great deal of
sport about who they are going to marry and
when the event will transpire, how they will
manage when they are married, etc. In listening
to them I am sometimes led to wonder if they
ever give the subject serious reflection, if they
ever think of the responsibilities and duties
that they take upon themselves when they
marry, for marrying is only the foundation,
and the duties of a wife and mother are many
and important, needing the exercise of patience
and wisdom. To choose a husband is no tri-
fling matter, when so much depends upon that
choice; for our whole life will be influenced
and our future happiness or misery depends
upon our choice. We all desire happiness, yet
how careless and indifferent we are in using
the very means that will secure this blessing to
us. Girls should never marry contrary to the
wish of their parents, if they do they will re-
pent it all the days of their lives. "Honor
thy father and thy mother, that thy days may
be long in the land." We are promised long
life and eternal life and happiness in the world
to come, through obedience to parents and
keeping the law of God, then should we think
of disobeying them in this the most important
event in our lives? How could we expect or
ask God for His blessing upon us when we dis-
regard His commands and set at nought the
counsels of loving parents, whose greatest de-
sire is to see us blessed and happy?
	Girls should never think of marrying outside
of this Church, unless they wish to throw them
selves away and forfeit all claims to the blessings
of the Gospel. Girls, never allow the attentions
of one who is not of our faith, no matter how
polite or gentlemanly he may be, nor how
handsome he is, or how rich he appears to be.
Be not deceived. Think not of his good looks
or his wealth. Be not enticed and flattered by
his attentions; do not permit them, lest you let
your affections overbalance your calm judg-
ment, in the thought that you can win him to
our side, to think as we do and receive our
principles. Do not delude yourself with any
such idea, if he will not do right and embrace
the Gospel because he loves its principles, he
will never embrace it for you, or if he does,
after he has obtained you he would "back
down" and apostatize because he was not gen-
uine, he was a fraud, a deceiver, and very like-
ly he would not only leave the Church, but
would abandon you who trusted him, leave
you forsaken and betrayed, to take care of
yourself as best you could; or if you remained
with him, if he did not desert you, you
would be cut off from the blessing of the Gos-
pel, because you had joined yourself with an
unbeliever, you would be one with him, for are
not man and wife one? Not only would you
suffer yourself, but your children after you,
and what right have you to deprive them of a
good father and the right to the blessings of
the Priesthood? We are told that a child's
first right is a good mother, and I think a
good father is just as necessary. It is direct
opposition to the commands of God to unite
with unbelievers. Has He not told us to keep
ourselves clean and unspotted from the world,
and not to partake of its influence, lest we
share in its plagues, and it is hard enough to
live as saints should do when we are all of one
faith, but doubly hard to struggle and fight
against an opposite spirit.
	Women naturally want some one to look
up to, to lead out, set the example and
then she can follow. If the head of
the house, the husband, sets a good example


all is well, if he does not, what then? Then,
again, among our own people, girls should be
careful and not give themselves away too
cheaply, but be sure to know that you are re-
ceiving as good as you give. "A virtuous
woman's value is far above rubies,—she is
priceless." If you are virtuous and pure, why
not require him, to whom you trust your hap-
piness to be the same? He should not only be
virtuous, but should be a Latter-day Saint in
the strictest sense of the term, in order to be
worthy the affections of a virtuous, loving girl.
If she is priceless she should not give herself
away to one unworthy of her. A good wife is
a precious gift from God, so also is a good
husband, and it is to Him that we should go
to seek wisdom to guide us in this matter, as
well as in other things, that we may not be led
astray, Ask our Heavenly Father to give us
a good husband, one who will love Him and
keep His commandments, and if we do our
duties well He will grant our petition and give
us "one that we can tie to," one of His noble
servants that we can safely trust without fear
of being deceived, and I think it would be bet-
ter to be one of  ten wives in the family of
such a man than to be the only one of a base
deceiver, who loves not purity or chastity, but
tries to destroy God's innocent daughters. Set
your mark high. Be not satisfied with a hus-
band of low, mean habits, who drinks, swears,
chews, uses profane language, or does anything
offensive to refined, modest and delicate feel-
ings or that comes in contact with the princi-
ples of our religion. Then if you are both L.
D. Saints, of course you will be married prop-
erly, in the House of the Lord, and begin life
together right, laying the foundation in right-
eousness, then you can go on step by step, en-
joying the blessing and favor of God.
					M. E. TEASDALE.
	Manuscript paper, Young Ladies' Journal,
Nephi, Utah.


[-]
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
		    REPORTS.
	WILSON WARD, WEBER STAKE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Primary Association of Wilson Ward
at present is in a flourishing condition.  We
held a Conference June 1st, 1883, President
Alice E. Stephens presiding. There were
present on the stand, a number of the sisters,
the Bishop and also the Sunday School Super-
intendent. A short time was spent in singing
and reciting, the President then called upon
Bishop B. H. Bingham to make a few remarks,
to which he responded, expressing himself as
being well pleased and entertained with the
exercises, also thought the Primary Associa-
tion a great benefit to the young.
	He was followed by Superintendent S. H.
Nielson who spoke very encouragingly to the
children.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing and benediction.
					GENEVA MARTIN,
							Secretary.

ADAIRVILLE, SHOW LOW, APACHE CO., ARIZONA.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society was organized May 19th,
1883, by Elder William Ellsworth, Sister
Harriet Whipple was chosen President; and
Sister Mary Adair as first Counselor; Mary
Ann Mc. Neil, Secretary; Belle Zara Whetten,
Treasurer. Meeting adjourned until the next
day, as Sister Whipple wished time to consider
as to her second Counselor, Sister Mary Han-
sen was then chosen.
	We have held seven meetings and one sew-
ing meeting. Number of members enrolled,
12. We are very few here, but as a rule feel
alive to our duties.
	Wishing the faith and prayers of our co-
workers in the Gospel, we remain, yours in the
true work,			HARRIET WHIPPLE,
								President,
					MARY. A. MCNEIL,
								Secretary.
			OGDEN CITY.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Ladies' Relief Society of Weber Stake
of Zion held their Quarterly Conference on
Friday, September 7th, in the Ogden Taberna-
cle. On the stand were President Lewis W.
Shurtliff, Mayor D. H. Peery, C. Middleton,
and other brethren, Counselors Hattie C.
Brown and Sarah J. Herrick, Secretary Mon-
ta Harris, Treasurer Melissa Hall and presi-
dents from the various branch societies
throughout the county. The meeting was con-
ducted in the absence of President J. S. Rich-
ards by Counselor Hattie C. Brown. Com-
menced at ten a.m. with the usual exercises of
singing and prayer, then followed the reading
of minutes and reports. Sister Hattie C.
Brown then addressed the congregation; ex-
pressed her pleasure at seeing so many of the
sisters and also the brethren out, it being a
busy season of the year; she regretted very
much that our beloved President was not per-
mitted to meet with us through the severe ill-
ness of one of her sons; she prayed the Lord to
comfort and bless Sister  Brown felt that
we would have a good time and that the Lord
would pour out His spirit upon us and we
would gain light, wisdom and intelligence
through it.
	Counselor Sarah J. Herrick said, she came
to the meeting to worship the Lord; hoped to
have His spirit ever dwelling in her heart,
when we have that we are indeed happy. She
realized we received great blessings every day,
and felt to thank the Lord for them. Was
glad to hear such good reports, they showed
the sisters were alive to their many duties; felt
that Father was pleased when He saw the
saints try to do their duties in the Kingdom of
God; spoke of the great life-work before us.
Prayed the blessings of God to rest upon us
all.
	Hon. D. H. Peery said he could not do jus-
tice to his feelings if he had not come to con-
ference; had not missed many for five years.
Spoke on the subject of self-denial; thought
we should be liberal in our dealings with the
poor, and then our Father in Heaven would
bless us with plenty; dwelt also upon the temp-
tations thrown around our young people; was
sorry to see it, but knew we had to be tried in
all things, both spiritual and temporal; asked
the blessings of God to be with this people
from the least to the greatest.
	President Lewis W. Shurtliff was pleased to
see so many sisters from the county, sisters that
he had known for years; was much pleased in
listening to the reports, but was greatly sur-
prised to hear of so few numbers of the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT being taken,
it being a paper especially adapted to
the sisters; hoped the sisters would subscribe,
as it was a good paper to have in every house-
hold. Spoke of the Gospel; thought the easi-
est part of it was the talking, the living and
carrying out our religion in our daily lives was
no very easy matter, it required great care and
attention to the little things in the daily rounds
of life. It requires the noblest men and wo-
men that God has created to be true Lat-
ter-day Saints. Thought it was a great comfort
to see the growth of this work; said the women
of Utah were, or should be, leaders, setting an
example worthy of imitation by all the world;
exhorted them to be faithful and not swerve
from any duty and not let any sacrifice be
too great to make for the great work we are all
engaged in. He spoke on a variety of sub-
jects, and closed by praying God to bless the
community with a spirit to do good and over-
come evil.
	Sister Brown made a few remarks and ad-
journed the meeting until 2 p.m.
	The afternoon meeting commenced with the
usual exercises of singing and prayer. The time
was then occupied by the presidents of the
various branches throughout the county. Each
gave a verbal report and bore a faithful testi-
mony to the work of God.
	Hon. C. F. Middleton gave much good and
wise instruction to the sisters, as did also Elder
Samuel Eggleston. The conference was then
adjourned for three months with singing and
benediction. 			MONTA HARRIS,
							Secretary.
		FIFTH WARD, S. L. CITY.
	Minutes of meeting held in the 5th Ward
Meeting House, called for the purpose of or-
ganizing a Y. L. M. I. A.  Bishop Brimley
stated the object of the meeting. After open-
ing exercises and prayer Sister Freeze, Presi-
dent of the Y. L. M. I. A's. of the Salt Lake
Stake, addressed the meeting on the necessity
of having Y. L. A's. Gave some excellent
advice to the young ladies in regard to the
company they should keep; the necessity of
keeping the Sabbath Day holy, and also to re-
frain from going on evening excursions. Sug-
gested that it was much better for both the
Y. M. and Y. L. to hold their meetings separ-
ately if possible, and every week, and occa-
sionally have conjoint meetings; that by hold-
ing their meetings in this manner, it placed
responsibility upon the young ladies that it
otherwise would not do.		*	*	*
	Sister M. Y. Dougall, Counselor to Sister
Freeze, urged the young ladies to rally round
their President and her counselors, as the suc-
cess of these meetings depend upon each an
every member. Prayed for the spirit of the
Lord to rest upon all, that they might fully
understand the important positions they hold.
	Sister Jane Freeze, Counselor of the 11th
Ward Y. L M. I. A., addressed the young
ladies on the necessity of attending to their
duties; urged them to be faithful and diligent
in the work they were about to take upon
themselves.
	Bishop Brimley thanked the sisters for com-
ing down, and for the excellent instructions
given. Spoke of the organization of a Y. L.
M. I. A., and the necessity thereof.
	Brother George Clark also spoke encoura-
ingly to the young ladies.
	The names of the officers were as follows:
Ellen Marsden, President; Rachel Brimley
and Alice M. Pettit, Counselors; Esther
Davey, Secretary; Harriet Winter, Treasurer.
	Sister Freeze said it was usual for the young
ladies appointed to office to speak to the meet-
ing.
	Sisters Marsden, Pettit and Winter, being
the only ones present, expressed their willing-
ness to do the best they could.
	Sister Freeze said she would like a report of
this meeting sent in. And it was also neces-
sary to have a representative in the meetings
held at Sister Taylor's residence, 1 ½ blocks
	The names of twenty young ladies were
then enrolled as members of the 5th Ward Y.
L. M. I. A., after which the meeting closed
with singing. Benediction by President
Freeze.			H. HARROW, Secretary.


Men who make sacrifices do not talk of
them. Those are true sacrifices which have
been done alone, and hidden. The world
knows too much of what we feel and what we
ose.—F. W. Robertson.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SCENES IN NAUVOO, AND INCIDENTS
	FROM H. C. KIMBALL'S JOURNAL.
		BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
	"Saturday, January 3rd," wrote the clerk:
"This was a clear beautiful morning--the air
comfortably warm--President Young having
been up late last night did not rise very early;
Elder Kimball was up somewhat earlier.
Uncle John Smith and his wife Clarissa came
in early in the morning, also Isaac Morley and
others." President Brigham Young (it ap-
pears), was quite sick during that day, was
suffering from chills and fever, and did not
come out of his room till five oclock in the
afternoon.
	The next day, Sunday, no public meeting
was held in the Temple on account of the floor
not being strong enough to support so large a
company as would have come in. In the
morning there was a council held in President
Young's room, and another in the afternoon, in
which it was d cided that David Candland be
sent to England. Brother Candland was
present at the council.
	"A letter was received this day from Samuel
Brannan in New York, also one from Pitts-
burg, signed William W. Salt, both of which
were answered. The one to Brannan under
the signature of Brigham Young--the other
was signed William W. Pepper, by David Mus-
tard, clerk--both written by Elder Hyde.
A copy of the New York sun, of December
19th, 1845, containing a letter from James
Arlington Bennett, to the editor, in which he
refers to a letter bearing the signature of
Emma Smith, published in that paper on the
9th of Dec., was also received by President
Young. Bennett’s letter to the editor con-
tained some things which were considered as
evidences that he was also the author of the
letter signed Emma Smith, at least that idea
was advanced by L. R. Foster, and was gen-
erally concurred in by those present, and was
referred to in President Young's letter to
Brannan."
	"The different quorums met in their respec-
tive rooms for prayers at the usual time, viz.,
the High Council and the High Priests.	*	*
	Monday, 5th. "This," he says, "was a pleas-
ant morning and many persons were early at
the Temple.	*	*	President Young's
health is almost restored. He was ready for
duty at an early hour--Spent morning in
hearing letters and newspapers, and giving di-
rections as to the business of the day." He
speaks of George D. Grant having received
ten or twelve letters from William Smith,
which, by Brother Grant's permission, were
read to President Young. The last was dated
at Cincinnatti, and was very scurilous. "The
quorums met at night as usual for prayer.
Prayed for the preservation of President Brig-
ham Young and his counsel and all the quor-
ums, and for blessings upon all the Saints, the
overthrow of our enemies, the healing of the
sick that are among us, for blessings upon the
house of Israel, and for our reception among
them, and for all the Saints abroad."
	On the 6th he speaks of Elder Babbit com-
ing into  the Temple before noon, "bringing a
letter written by Gov. Thomas Ford, to J. B.
Backenstos, dated Springfield, 29th, in which
he refers, among other matters to the probabil-
ity that the U. S. Government would send a
'military force to Nauvoo to assist in arresting
the Twelve, who are charged with counterfeit-
ing."
	The following named persons are mentioned
as engaged in working at the cushions or up-
hostery on the new altar:--Sisters Mary Ann
Young, Vilate Kimball, Elizabeth Ann Whit-
ney, Eliza R. Snow, Mary and Agnes Smith
(the wives or Hyrum and Carlos Smith),
Mercy R. Thompson and Sarah Ann Whitney.
	He wrote that evening: "At six o'clock p.m.
President B. Young and Heber C. Kimball,
with their wives, Mary Ann Young and
Vilate Kimball, left the Temple to go to Elder
John Taylor's to attend a party. This incident 
I well remember. It was called the Printer’s
Festival. Among the most pleasing incidents
that claim a place in my memory, were the
Printer's Festival, given annually by Elder
John Taylor who was Editor of the Nauvoo
Times and Seasons.
	It is more pleasant to dwell upon the sunny
side, though without a dark background and
an occasional shadow to the mental picture it
would be very tame and insipid. Thus it
would be with life had we nought but repose.
Were there no storms to meet--no rough and
angry billows to dash upon our devoted heads
while crossing over the ocean of life, nor any
dangerous foes to contend with and overcome,
we would neither appreciate our blessings nor
our deliverance, nor have learned to trust to a
Divine power for the same. And our experi-
ence would be of little value to ourselves and
of less interest to the ones who may read our his-
tory. The first printer's festival that I attend-
ed was with H. K. Whitney, who was one of
the printers, and this was held out on the prai-
rie at a farm (I think) of Brother Benbow's
in the summer of 1845. And there for the
first time I remember meeting Brother George
Q. Cannon who was but a mere lad and near-
ly, if not quite, the youngest boy in the office,
and I rather think that Judge Elias Smith was
the eldest, he being the business agent in the
office. This one given at the house of Elder
Taylor was the last, being about a month pre-
vious to our departure from our beautiful city
Nauvoo to become again wanderers upon west-
ern plains for the Gospel's sake--to seek an-
other home where those who drove us out be-
lieved that no white man could dwell.
	Among the guests at Brother Taylor's were
not only President B. Young and Counselors,
but others who, like them, had been kept se-
creted a goodly portion of the time. There
were one or two incidents connected with this
party which helped to stamp it upon my
memory. When entering Brother Taylor’s
door in company with my parents I was greet-
ed with the following salutation, "I wish you
much joy," ect., and it was repeated by every
one that met us, some person having started
the report that H. K. Whitney and myself
were married, which was all news to us, we be-
ing perfectly ignorant of any such transaction,
but as we found it impossible to convince them
to the contrary, Horace, who thought it a good
joke, and did not mind carrying it out, com-
menced there and then to call me "wife," and
for years after he invariably addressed me by
this title, though we were not married until the
3rd of the following February, President B.
Young performing the ceremony in the Tem-
ple, and on the 27th of the same month we
crossed the Mississippi, en route for the Rocky
Mountains. This was rather too long and
tedious a journey to be called a wedding tour
--thousands of miles over scorched and dreary
deserts, rocky mountains and poisonous lakes
of alkali, etc. But after all it had its sunny
side as well as its dark shadows, the descrip-
tion of which we must leave till some future
time, and return to the festival where Judge
W. W. Phelps was the next to be made the
victim of a practical joke. And as the Judge
had asserted that no one could play a joke
upon him, it did not end so pleasantly. The
offender happened to be the Judge's eldest
son, (Waterman) who was one of the
type setters and had a persistent habit
of playing practical jokes. He hap-
pened to be sitting behind the Judge, who was
seated in an easy chair, and pinned the cush-
ion to his father's coat skirt, who soon grati-
fied his irreverent son by rising and the ap-
pendage with him, which of course attracted
general attention, though but few had yet
come. But the Judge did not relish the joke.
His face colored up and a very black cloud
rested down upon his usually fun-loving visage
as he looked around and probably guessed the
author of it.  He left the room in a terrible,
passion and idd not return nor quite recover
form it during the whole evening. This cast
a momentary cloud over the ones who witnessed
this scene, but it would have been impossible
for any one, even the Judge, under similar cir-
cumstances, with a keen sense of the ridicu-
lous, to have refrained from laughing, though
we felt ashamed for his son whose bump of
reverence (if he ever possessed any) must have
sorely neglected to be thus lacking in the nec-
essary respect due to a parent. But how often
do we witness that same spirit of irreverence
paid to parents and to the aged. My youth-
ful training was such that I could never treat
my parents nor the aged with any undue fa-
miliarity. In the Holy Bible we read, "Hast
thou children? instruct them and bow down
their neck from their youth. Hast thou
daughters? have a care of their body, and
shew not thyself cheerful toward them." This
would be thought rather harsh treatment in
these days, but we should realize that a great
and an awful responsibility is resting upon
parents, and we need much of the Holy Spir-
it to assist us in the training of our offspring,
for there are seldom two who are constituted
alike--each one has his or her own peculiari-
ties; and many I believe will wake up in the
morning of the resurrection and find them-
selves childless because of their wicked and
brutal treatment of them in this life. But if
the youth could but be prevailed upon to lis-
ten to kind teachings or profit by other's ex-
perience they might avoid many of the gulfs
and quicksands which we can see lying in the
pathway before them. "A reproof from a
friend is better than smiles from a hypocrite."
	We read in Holy Writ that "the Lord hath
given the father honor over the children and
confirmed the authority of the mother over
the sons. Whoso honoreth his mother is as
one that layeth up treasure. Whoso honoreth
his father shall have joy in his own children,
and when he maketh his prayer he shall be
heard." Honor thy father and mother both
in word and deed, that a blessing may come
upon thee  from them. "My son, help thy 
father in his age, and grieve him not as long
as he liveth. And if his understanding fail,
have patience with him; and despise him not
when thou art in thy full strength, for the re-
lieving of thy father shall not be forgotten; 
and instead of sins it shall be added to build
thee up. In the days of thine affliction it
shall be remembered; thy sins also shall melt
away as the ice in the fair, warm weather.
Honor thy father with thy whole heart, and for-
get not the sorrows of thy mother. Remember
that thou wast begotten of them and how
cants thou recompense them the things that
they have done for thee?"
			To be Continued.


LIGHT AND SHADOW.
There are seasons—brief periods in ourexis-
tenee—when can truly say we are happy.-'
We feel a pure, calm contentment born of the'
spirit of light, which is not only a spiritual
elevation, hut the entire being seems involved.
The eye beams with an unusual brightness—s'
the step seemd to have regained its youthful,
elasticity. Sweet melody unconsciously falls
from the lips in some half-forgotten strain.
Oft the plainest face becomes beautiful as it
were by electrical inspiration. At the time we
may not be able to define the cause of these


emotions; but in more reflective moments we
are convinced their origin is of Heaven.
     Nothing in life can give such perfect con-
tentment and joy as the Spirit of God. In
whatever circumstances we may be placed,
that sweet, benign influence brings peace and
a secret satisfaction to our souls that must be
experienced to be understood.
     We cannot expect this life to be one eternal
sunshine—one endless round of comfort and
pleasure, for sorrow in some form will overtake
us howe’er propitious may be our course. This
seems necessary for the perfecting of this mor-
tal life. For:
	“The sweets of life would all be wasted
	On those who never grief had tasted.”
After clouds have o’ercast the horizon—cloth-
ing all nature in a shadowy mantle—how
much do we appreciate the bright sunlight !
After the chilling frosts of winter, how glorious
is the spring-time ! The bitter makes the
sweet taste the sweeter. Clouds cause us to
love the genial sunshine. Adversity .brings
humility and inspires gratitude for prosperity;
drawing us nearer that holy shrine from
whence all blessings flow.	E. R. S.


WOMAN’S	EXPONENT.


﻿IN MEMORIAL

     It is with feelings of the deepest sorrow that we
are called upon to record the death of Sister Maria Boe-
sen, which took place at her residence in Lynne, Weber
Co., June 11th, 1883.
     Sister Boesen was a faithful wife, a true and affection-
ate mother, and a faithful friend. From the time that
she embraced the Gospel she never faltered in her faith,
and her life was devoted to the discharge of her duties
as a Latter-day Saint in every position in which she
was placed. She leaves a husband and four children,
and many, many friends to mourn her loss.
     The following Resolutions of Respect to our beloved
sister, Maria Boeson, who departed this life June 11th,
1883, in the thirty-ninth year of her age, were unani-
mously adopted by the Relief Society of Lynne Ward:
     Whereas, God in his infinite wisdom has called from
our midst our Sister, who was greatly beloved and res-
pected by all for her kind and gentle disposition, her
pure, virtuous, and exemplary life, her fafthful labors
in our Society, and the many good qualities she pos-
sessed;
     Therefore, be it resolved, that we, the members of the
Relief Society of Lynne Ward, do deeply mourn the loss
of our beloved sister, Maria Boesen, and that we con-
dole with her husband, children and relatives in their
great loss, but while mingling our tears with their we
would point with joy to the hope of a glorious resur-
rection which all true Latter-day Saints will possess.
     And be it resolved, that we present a copy of these
Resolutions to her husband, and that a copy be sent to
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication, and that they
be spread upon our Record Book and that her good deeds and
untiring patience in doing her duty may be handed
down to future generations for their guidance in the
cause of truth.
(Signed) MARY BIRD, President R. S.
MARY A. GARDNER, Secretary.
Farewell, sister, we shall miss you,
But not more we'll see your face,
Until we are changed as you are,
In a higher, holler place.
Lynne, August 2nd, 1883.

     Resolutions of Respect to the memory of Sister Anna
Tracy, who departed this life September 1st, 1883.
     Whereas, an alwise providence has called from us by
the hand of death our beloved sister,
     Resolved, that we recognize in the death of our sis-
ter, Anna Tracy, a worthy teacher in the Relief Society
of Wilson’s Ward.
     Anna Tracy was born July 24th; 1850, and was the
daughter of Barlo Wilson and Agnes Hunter, was mar-
ried to Austin Tracy in 1867; was the mother of six
children, of whom three are left to mourn her loss. She
was a kind and affectionate wife and mother, and
gained the respect and love of all who knew her. She
died of consumption after a lingering illness.
     Resolved, That we deeply sympathlze with the be-
reaved family and friends who mourn her loss.
     Resolved, That these resolutions be spread upon our
records, and a copy be furnished the bereaved family,
also the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.
MARY STAKER, Ass't Secretary R. S.

 In memory of Sister Rhoda Ann Miller, wife of the
late Bishop Miller, and  President of the Relief Society
of Mill Creek Ward, who departed this life August 2nd,,
1883, in her 69th year, after a long illness. She was a
good and faithful member of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, and her many high and noble qual-
ities and deeds will ever be remembered by all who
knew her, for her history is full of kindness, and it
seemed her main object was to look after the poor and
see that they were all clothed and fed. Sister Miller held
the office of President for a number of years, which
office she filled as far as her health would permit.
Though afflicted and not able to attend much of the
time to the meetings, her good and comforting influence
was felt at all the gatherings of the sisters. We willmiss
our dear sister's company who has been taken from us.
But we realize that our loss is her gain. Our sympa-
thies are extended to the many relatives and friends of
the family. The funeral service was held in the Mill
Creek Ward House, on the following Sunday at ten
o’clock a.m., Brothers Joseph F. Smith, Angus M. Can-
non and Joseph E. Taylor addressed the congregation.
Sisters E. R. Snow Smith and E. S. Taylor were also
present. Loving hands  draped the house in white
and flowers.
     A large concourse of friends followed the remains to
the Salt Lake Cemetery. There she will await a glori
our resurrection.
NELLIE E. SPENCER, Secretary.
ANNIE M. MIKESELL, Ass't Secretary


[Column 1]

ELLEN B. FURGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office and Residence on 2d South between 3d
and 4d East Streets.
Special Study has been given to SURGERY, DISEASES
OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS.
Can be called by Telephone Day or Night.
For Sale at this Office.
BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.
PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,	-	25c. per copy.
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book, 	40c.	“
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, vol. 1,	-		$1.00	“
“ 	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
	of the author, bound in morocco, 		1.25 “
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	Georgo A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, -	1.50	“
MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
Office and residence, South Temple Street, one
block and a half west of the Valley House.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.
A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLEB, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Buildings; also HOME MADE
Blankets, Brown Yarns, Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,	Wool Batting
Shawls,	Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,	Caseimers,	Washboards,
Jeans,	Tweeds,	Brushes, Etc., Etc.
SCHOOL IN MIDWIFERY.
DR. ROMANIA B- PRATT
COMMENCES a new class in her office over Godbe &
Pitts’ Drug Store October 8th, at 1 o’clock p.m.
This school was established in 1878. The Term of five
months, three lectures per week, is a practical course
for those who desire to enter at once into this work. It
is advised that those whose circumstances will admit,
attend a second course, for the subject is so comprehen-
sive that a repetition of the lectures is very advan-
tageous, especially to those of limited education.
 Other branches of medicine are taught only as they
bear especially upon this subject. More than that in so
limited a course would be too superficial. Manikin,
charts and instruments are used in teaching.
Tuition..............     ....$30.00
Books..................  .....$13.00
N. B.—Orders for books must be sent in early so as to
get them from the east in time.

[Column 2]
Established October 1868.
Z.C.M.I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS'AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE, 
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house In the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.
----------------------------
Special to the Ladies.-,
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
					in
LACES,		RUCHES,	EMBRODERIES,
	FANS,	GLOVS,		PARASOLS,
		RIBBONS, 	COLLARS,	TIES,
	    And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department tor Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.
	HENRY DINWOODEY.
FURNITURE,
		WALL PAPER,
   CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUINS,
		   AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET
SALT LAKE CITY.
FAuerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMEN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 12. 		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15 1883.		No. 10.


"OUR MOTHER."
AFFECTIONATELY INSCRIBED TO SISTER MAY.
   Sister dear, we know our mother,
With her crown of golden hair,
Soon will leave, us for another
world more fair.

   A world that is not full of sorrow
And every haunting care,
Even in that blest tomorrow,
In that world more fair. 

In that fair world she'll meet our father.
WHo has left and gone before,
He has crossed the stygian river.
And safely reached the shining shore.

The let us strive to wear with honor,
in "due time"our crown of grey,
Also let us strive to join her
In that fairer world, dear May
			B.A. Bush.
Cloverdale Farm, Tooele Co., Oct. 2nd, 1883


THE WATCHER'S NIGHT THOUGHTS

Little crickets, so blithe and merry,
	Singing your night songs, gay and cheery,
Do you know you comfor the sad and sick,
With your "zr-r, zr-r, clip-cl-click"?

O, owl, in the tree, your "hoot-hoo-h-o-o-ty."
SOunds like a sentinel's "cry on duty!"
Telling the watcher she is not alone
In her vigils sad, by the dying one.

O, shining moon, as you go away,
You seem to tell us, 'tis almost day,"
That though your going may darken the skies,
The sun in his brightness, will soon arise.

Glittering stats, you stay all night,
Shining in brightly till morning light
Like bright rays of hope, high overhead,
Though all things earthly seem silent -dead.

The cricket, the owl, the moon and stars,
Begulling the silent, midnight hours,
Tell of a Creator everywhere,
And prove His power and loving care.
					EMILY SCOTT.


LINES OF LOVE.

TO MA SMOOT.

In a dream I saw Eternity,
	My eyes were opened wide,
AndAnd oh, the many beautiful things
	I saw on ev'ry side.
But one scene of all can I recall,
	A scene so purely bright—
I fear I cannot portray to you
	The glories that met my sight.

A mansion, with white shining pillars,
	Of lofty, marvelous grace;
The walls were jeweled, and windows wide
	Were draped with misty lace;
The garden was brilliant with flowers—
	The trees sung soft refrains
To the rippling trill of the waters,
	Sounding like falling rains.

Lovely clad angels with happy eyes,
	Flitted from side to side.
With questions I sought these beings bright,
	To which, one softly replied—
"This home was fashioned for one on earth,
	Whom you both know and love.
Would you like to look at the treasures
	Which she has stored above?


"These walls are festooned with jewels rare,
	Of thrift and Godly fears:
The floors are covered with trials borne,
	That shine like angel's tears:
Those flowers were strewn by children's hands,
	The fruits, a mother's woes,
Planted by generous sacrifice--
	The saddest tree that grows."

"Now see," she said, "the loveliest gift
	That woman could receive-
A diadem of more priceless worth
	Than mortals could conceive.
Glowing, glistening, and dazzling gems,
	Adorned this lovely crown:
While resting in waiting brilliancy,
	Cushioned with softest down."

"This crown is her husband's love and trust;
	Its gems, a woman's cares;
Set in with the gold of woo and pain,
	Embossed with many prayers.
Go! tell her we pray for our meeting here,
	But all must bide the law!
And when you see her kiss her for us,
	On earth they call her Ma."
									HONESPUN.


[Column 1]

		A BEAUTIFUL WOMAN.
	Yes! to-day I have seen that wonderful be-
ing of God's creation, a beautiful woman! She
fairly magnetized my eyes and one or two of
my senses-and all of my heart, that I gave her
free as air, I could not help it; I have been
looking back and cannot recollect that I ever
saw to my mind, a woman so perfect. I dis-
like sweeping assertions and they generally
are not true, but there are exceptions to all
things, and this is one, I am so glad I have
seen her! she has left an influence that I will
try to make beneficial-she was surely formed
as a model in more ways than one. She has
passed down another current, never more to
blend with me personally on earth, but spirit-
ually we shall communicate; for there was a 
powerful affinity between us; I will try to
draw an adumbrated portrait of her but feel I
cannot do her justice.
	Grandly tall! and proportion, which in it-
self is beauty, visibly stamped upon her from
the crown of her noble head to the sole of her
foot! No fat! but flesh and muscle to balance
her hight, her beautiful, womanly head finely
set on a graceful neck, and shoulders worthy to
bear the same; her profusion of hair amounting
to a marvel-but so gracefully arranged as not
to be cumbrous-her voice musical and the
deliverly of her words perfect! Her dress-
why it was entirely a model for any fashiona-
ble modist, and yet original! -rich in material,
but plain in make up-no vulgar jewelry about
her neck, but a simple ribbon bearing proba-
bly a souvenir of chaste-simple but recherche
--the ribbon tied as none but she could fix it-
her hat!-I ought to take a whole paragraph
to describe its elegance, but "I pass"-were I
a painter I should be apt to take the tout en-
semble of this unique woman as my model for
St. Cecelia, because with all this beauty and
chaste adornment, there was a sweet, womanly
simplicity, a suavity of manner, and a simple
dignity of deportment that gave the electric
charm to all she said or did-her earnest yet
gentle words, her manner so simple yet pol-
ished, bearing the impress of a patrician, yet
humble and entirely approachable.
	What a model! Had we such an one al-

[Column 2]
ways before our eyes we surely should improve
in our manners and address to each other-
which is often so chilling, so immobile, so ob-
tuse, so unlovable.
	I rejoice I was so fortunate as to have come
in contact with the faint outline I have des-
cribed-it has warmed me up, struck chords
that have long lain mute for the want of a
hand to strike them. Association of superior
natures, or rather perhaps I should say, man
ners is necessary to every one as a finish to ed-
ucation of whatever school. We are cultiva-
ted by such an association more in a few hours
than we could be in days or weeks of scholastic
friction. "One touch of nature makes the
whole world kin," -and this we realize in asso-
ciating with our fellow beings-especially our
superiors-this superiority needs to be defined
-in a few words, it does not consist in wealth
or position-it arises from the cultivation of
the heart and brain, and the association that
polishes and refines both these organs and
gives them tact and talent to diffuse amiability
and happiness among any society into which,
the circumstances of life often throw people
unexpectedly; a really well educated person is
at home in all society where goodness and res-
pectability prevail; and when brought in con-
tact with opposing elements it is often seen
that the "oil and wine" of love and kindness
emerging from such a spirit has the power to
still the turbulent element of ignorance, and
awaken an under current of love and admira-
tion, that was flowing silently in the bed rock
of a strange, hard nature, which the voice of
love and education had never cultivated.
	My beautiful friend, adieu! In spirit I kiss
my hand to thee, and aspirate a blessing on
thee and on they earthly pilgrimage! Thou
hast shed a stray ray or two of sunlight ou
my lonely but peaceful life; thy image is pho-
tographed vividly on my heart and brain.
Our spirits spoke to each other in a language
peculiar to themselves, and revealed things
that our present language could never proper-
ly make known. May the angels of God at-
tend thy steps, and peace and health be around
thy dwelling.
	Image of Beauty, Farewell!
							H. T. King.


HOMESPUN TALK.

	Yes, ma'am, I am Mormon! Mormon to the
backbone. I am no saint, and you won't need to
consult more than two of my numerous house-
hold to find out the truth of this statement.
You want me to tell you what Mormonism
means to me. Well, it means that I have a 
right to wear plain clothes, or rich clothes,
shabby clothes or old-fashioned ones;that I have
a right to put consecrated oil in or on my
children when they are sick, while my neigh-
bors have a right to call in quack doctors; it
means that I have a right to patronize home in-
dustries and co-ops, instead of building up
the men who would see me go to jail like An-
nie Gallifant and only rejoice thereat; I have
the privilege of giving my husband all the
wives he chooses to take, and take comfort
with them, too; that I have a right to teach
my children to respect the dear religion their
fathers suffered for and sometimes died for its
sake; it means freedom, peace, faith, and life, 
full and complete, both here and hereafter; and
it means—God in EVERYTHING!


74	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SCENES IN NAUVOO, AND INCIDENTS
FROM H. C. KIMBALL'S JOURNAL.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	I had nearly forgotten our artist, Brother
Major, from England, who commenced in the
summer of 1845 to paint our family group.
It was upon a large canvas, tastefully ar-
ranged,—my father and mother sitting with
baby in the centre,—myself at her side and
my brother William with his wife and little
daughter on the left, and four younger
brothers made up the family group. I sat for
mine more than any of the rest, and the face
was nearly completed before it was taken off
the frame to be packed away, which was done
only a short time previous to our leaving Nau-
voo. One of the same size, with President B.
Young and family was begun at the same time
—the latter I saw but a short time previous to
Sister Young's death—also another with the
First Presidency, B. Young, H. C. Kimball
and W. Richards, and the Twelve Apostles
sitting in council, whsch was hanging there in
the same unfinished state, Brother Major hav-
ing died many years ago.
	The following incidents close this volume of
my father's journal; and though he may have
continued it through the rest of the month, we
have not been able to find any clue to it. But
being a frequent visitor at the Temple I can
testify to the faithfulness of my father and
mother, and many more of my brethren and
sisters, who continued laboring there without
ceasing until the evening of February 3rd,
at which time my marriage took place. The
great work which the Lord had predicted
through the Prophet Joseph should be done in
that house was fulfilled in spite of all the
threats and the snares set by His foes to pre-
vent it.
	"January 7th. This morning there was an
immense crowd at the reception room waiting
for admission into the washing and anointing
rooms. The brethren came along bearing ves-
sels filled with all kinds of provisions for the
use of those attending to the ordinances of the
Lord's House. The supply is much greater
than the consumption. 	*		*		*
The supply of provisions brought in to-day has
been very abundant, and much of it has been
sent away to those families that are desti-
tute.	*		*		*		*		*
	"A letter was received this morning from
Mr. Tucker, the Catholic priest, informing us
that the Bishop could not raise money enough
to purchase our property, but would either pur-
chase or rent one of our public buildings, but
would not insure it against fire or mobs. A
council was held in Pres. Young's room, and
the letter was taken into consideration." The
result of their deliberation, it seems, was that
they would not answer the letter, that the
Catholics might go their own way, for they
would have no more to do with them. At six
o'clock that evening, he says, "The High
Priests held their different meetings in rooms
Nos. 8 and 10." After putting down each
name he continues, "The three meetings were
conducted by persons chosen in each one to
preside, and all the individuals in them were
clothed in priestly apparel, and the greatest
unanimity of feeling prevailed. The most
prominent things prayed for were, the preser-
vation of President B. Young and all the
Twelve, and that the ordinances of the endow-
ment might continue until all the Elders had
received their washings and anointings, and
that the Saints might all be able to procure
means by which they could remove from Nau-
voo to the west in a comfortable manner, and
for the sick, that they may be healed—and that
God would disappoint our enemies in all their
plans."
	He speaks of Sister Ann M. Foster going

[Column 2]
home about that time with her little boy,
Lucian R. Foster, Jr., "having been in the
Temple all the time since yesterday noon. Her
little boy was quite sick when she came, but
went away quite well." On the Sunday pre-
vious she brought him to the Temple, and at
the request of Brother Foster my father, Pres.
Young and P. P. Pratt laid their hands upon
him and pronounced upon him many blessings,
and among them that of life and health.
	"About 9 o'clock this evening Elder H. C.
Kimball and his wife, Bishop Whitney and
his wife left the Temple and went to Joseph
Kingsbury's to remain until William Kimball
should carry a load of persons, viz: L. R. Fos-
ter, Horace Whitney and Mary Ellen Harris
to their respective homes. After which he re-
turned and carried home his father and mother
in the carriage with the grey horses. Bishop
Whitney and his wife went home also in the
same carriage. President Brigham Young left
the Temple about 10 o'clock and went home
for the night."
	"This afternoon and evening the new altar
was used for the first time,—four individuals
and their wives were sealed. The altar is
about 2 ½ feet high and 2 ½ feet long and about
8 or 9 inches wide,	*		*		*		are
covered with cushions of scarlet damask
cloth. The Twelve and the Bishops with their
wives were present at the dedication this after-
noon." This closes his journal.
	Sister Mary Ellen Harris, mentioned above,
is living here in Salt Lake City, and is one of
my father's widows, and is known and respect-
ed by hundreds, not only for her faithfulness
to the Gospel, but for her many qualities of
head and heart. She has testified to me that
she was sealed in that Temple to my father,
and that she chose him because he was a man
of God, though her heart was grieved that she
should cause Sister Vilate Kimball one pang,
but felt that if she did not take this step her
own glory would be clipt. My mother, hear-
ing how Mary Ellen felt, caused her for ever
after to feel kindly towards her. There were
over twenty women sealed to my father in that
Temple for the same conscientious reasons ex-
pressed by Sister Mary Ellen; and five of them
were taken as the wives of the Prophet Joseph.
Those women were actuated by the one princi-
ple, salvation and exaltation in our Father's
Kingdom; though three or four became disaf-
fected in consequence of their light becoming
darkness, and they had not sufficient grace,
therefore, apostacy was the result. One who
left him in a rash moment never denied the
faith, and she speedily repented the step. It
was but a few years after, when afflicted with
an incurable disease, that she came to one of
his wives, Harriet S. Kimball, desiring the
privilege of remaining under his roof, where
she was received and nursed tenderly by Har-
riet, till death came to her release. I believe
that his wives were all honest when they took
this step. All had refused offers from single
men, and no earthly inducements were held
out to them to enter the plural order. They
were given to understand that this was to be a
life of trial and sacrifice, and no one was forced
to enter into this order only by the power of
the Holy Ghost, which bringing, as it did, con-
viction to their hearts, I may say did compel
them to accept and obey it. Pure and exalted
was their aim—they saw a glory which they
could not attain to accept they obeyed this ce-
lestial law, of which they would know nothing,
nor can they ever understand it only by that
same spirit, which will reveal all things to the
humble and contrite. To enter this much
talked of order (which those who openly sus-
tain and foster all manner of licentiousness
and crimes, professing to look upon it with such
holy horror, and enact laws to destroy us and
our family relations) is the first and grandest
step towards advancement in that great and

[Column 3]
purifying plan laid down by the Almighty, and
I know that it is a divine institution, and that
it places women as well as men upon a higher
plane, and will more quickly free her from that
bondage and curse which fell upon her through
transgression, than any other, and that the ones
who practice and advocate it will be the first
to stand again as man's equal, as did our first
mother, Eve, in the garden of Eden. Though
many blunders have been made by the inex-
perienced and wrongs committed by individu-
als, which they will be called to answer for
sooner or later, I can testify to the purity of
the principle, and that it is God-like in its
fruits, and has a tendency to expand the soul,
and to raise our thoughts and desires above the
groveling things of earth, which, through the
many generations that have passed away, has
become corrupt, narrow and contracted. The
ones who practice it as a God-given principle
become more pure and lofty in every thought
and desire; their aspirations reach to some-
thing higher than the gratification of earthly
lusts and those who remain true and virtuous
will continue to progress in the higher walks
throughout time and all eternities; while those
who reject it, and set themselves up to judge
and condemn and revile against the ones who
passing through the fiery ordeals, that are
necessary to purify and prepare us to enter
those higher grades, of which they know
nothing, having never crossed even the thres-
hold, will have dwindled and passed away, and
been forgotten, even "like chaff upon the sum-
mer threshing floor." They refuse to believe
facts though we publish and send them out in-
to the world, desiring them to know things just
as they are. We do not proclaim these things in
a boasting spirit, nor in and of ourselves, but
in the strength of Him to whose promises and
truths we have clung for more than fifty years,
and the latter are our most powerful weapons
against all the vile slander that can be raised
against us; and our faith is that we shall still
go on conquering and to conquer. We can
anticipate the feelings of our persecuters when
the truth breaks in upon them, and they awake
to their own condition; and the Lord knows
that they already have my sympathies.

To be Continued.


GOSHEN PRIMARY.
				GOSHEN, Sept. 22nd, 1883.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We held our fair on the above date, which
was a great credit to the children. They took
an interest in making many beautiful things
to adorn their persons and houses, and I think
it wonld be well to mention some of the arti-
cles made by our little ones, and also give you
an idea of the proceedings. Basket made by
Margaret Poulson, aged 10 years, rake, John
Poulson, 8 years; quilt, Elizabeth Burson, 11
years; bracket, Elizabeth Higginson; mat,
Annie Jaspersen, 8 years; bracket, Lydia Jas-
persen, 10 years; cushion, Eliza Dedds, 10
years; comb-case, Janet Jenkins, 10 years; veg-
etables, Hardy Jenkins, 8 years; hair switch,
Mary Laird; straw braiding, Josey Laird, 9
years; brackets, Elizabeth Standfiely, 10 years;
map drawing, Maggie Morgan; two cakes
made by two little girls about 8 years, also
needle work, flowers. knit and crochet lace, ti-
dies, a beautful nubia, nice mats of various
styles, and many beautiful things too numer-
ous to mention.
	There were also songs and recitations given
by the children, and we had a very pleasant
and interesting time together.
		SARAH ROBERTS, President.
		JULIA M. JASPERSEN, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


BIRTHDAY ADDRESS.
TO A YOUNG BROTHER ATTAINING THE AGE OF
			TWENTY-ONE.
	Another year has passed away.
And brought again your natal day;
And ended all minority
By ushering in majority.

The rolling years of life have run
And brought you up to twenty-one!
So now you enter life’s great mart
Summon'd to play your allotted part;
	And not in domino to play it,
But in your proper self essay it!
And truly you have well begun
The race or life, yes, well you’ve run.
You have been blest with parents kind,
Who've wisely trained your heart and mind,
And taught you how you might attain
That wisdom, which ’tis wealth to gain;
And God has had His eye on you,
And daliy watches all you do;— 
Lie ever passive in His hands,
Obeying all His wise commands;
Present your heart and brain to Him
To have, to hold them free from sin;
To strengthen, fertilize, and make
Them quick to bend, but never break.

You’ve entered by the Gospel door,
As Christ, your Savior, did before,
And now you may expect to meet
Not always roses at your feet!
For e’en the beauteous, gorgeous rose
Finds on its stem there ever grows
Thorns clustered round it thick and sharp,
A symbol of the light and dark:
To good and bad comes joy and woe,
A chequered life to all below:
But to a Saint of Latter-days
The sunshine comes in many Ways;
E’en in the storm there shines a beam,
A rainbow, with its prism gleam!
That comes so straight from God’s bright throne
It makes its brightness all our own.

The" Rod of Iron,” grasp it tight,
’Twlll put temptations all to flight;
Shut ears and eyes when such shall find you
And bid the Tempter get behind you!
Whatever shape he may appear in,
He does not always make us fear him
But as an angel fair and bright
He puts onr vigilance to flight.

Walk sotly in a prosp'rous day,
In Sol’s meridian burning ray
The shadow of a “Rock” we need,
And ’twill be there in very deed
If we will keep our, heart and eye
Upon the “Polestar” of the sky, 
That star so fixed will ne’er decline,
But in the darkest night will shine
Upon each Saint of Latter-days
Through all-the devious means and ways,
That often as a net is thrown
Around the feet of Heaven’s own!
And every Saint must surely meet
These serpent colls around their feet;
But silence keep—the fervent prayer
Will disentangle every snare:
And when’tis past—in looking back 
Along the woeful, dreary track,
In heart and soul you’ll kiss the rod
And say, “I see the hand of God!
And He it was who bore me up,
While drinking from that bitter cup!
Yes, God was with me, now I know,
Or I had sunk beneath that woe!
I rise from all a stronger man,
And heaven’s programme I can scan;
I’m wiser than I was before,
My mind is stronger than of yore;
I feel, and see, and know I am
A wiser and a better man I—”

I have not pictured blissful days,
You’ll meet them, sure, in many ways;
There’s much of good in store for you
If you are wise in al you do;
Pray, pray form wisdom!-- may it be
The ones great gift bestowed on thee!

For many a mind, both great and bright,
Has sunk involved in endless night
For lack of wisdom’s lamp to night
Her mighty halo round their head!
Wisdom in thought, in speech, in act,
To make success in life a fact!
All this you’ll need, my youthful friend,
Until life’s warfare has an end!

May heaven hold you by the hand,
That firm and faithful you may stand,
His son, His soldier, servant, priest;
Then in each one you will be blest;
And may this day return each year
Laden with joys your heart to cheer,
And friends and dear ones round you be,
Such are the prayers I pray for thee.
Accept the tribute I now send,
From one who is your faithful friend.
						HANNAH T. KING.
Salt Lake City.


[Column 1]

A VENERABLE WOMAN.

PRESENDIA LATHROP KIMBALL.

[Continued.]

	The board of health was indeed just what
the name indicated and even to this day the
good results of the methods Dr. Richards
taught are evident. They have never been
forgotten by those who had the opportunity
of receiving direct from him some ideas of the
knoweldge and experience he had gained by
means of a long and successful practice, and
also through giving heed to the suggestive
whisperings of the spirit and the exercise of
faith in God. He was an Apostle, holding the
holy priesthood, with power to administer in
all the ordinances of the same, and he was not
only willing but anxious to help forward all
who desired to become acquainted with the
principles he so well understood. He realized
that the gift of healing was a power, especial-
ly when combined with works adapted to the
circumstances of the case, and he felt that it
was quite necessary that those who officiated
among the sick, especially midwives, ought to
have all the blessings that could be conferred
upon them by those holding the keys of the
priesthood of God upon the earth.
	Accordingly he laid his hands upon the
heads of a number of the sisters who had pre-
pared themselves to act as midwives and also
administering to the sick and afflicted and set
them apart for this very office and calling, and
blest them with power to officiate in that ca-
pacity as handmaids of the Lord. Among
the number set apart at that time Sister Pres-
endia was one who received the blessing, and
from that day to this she has realized the
power and influence it conferred in her daily
administerings, not only when she has been
called upon to act as a midwife, but when
washing and anointing and blessing the sisters.
	There were other sisters set apart and blest
at the same time, among whom were Sisters
Elizabeth Ann Whitney, Laura Pitkin Kim-
ball, who were set apart to administer to the
sick. They appreciated this blessing for they
had implicit faith in the power of the priest-
hood.
	Sister Presendia says, "Sometime in the fall
of 1851 I was in delicate health and was
obliged to retire from the duties of the
Endowment House which had been so
beneficial to me, though I still felt the
blessings I had received therein accompanied
me to my home and in the daily routine of dai-
ly life. I was so happy I scarcely knew how to
be thankful enough for the blessings God had
bestowed upon me, and I rejoiced by day and
by night and looked forward like Elizabeth of
old to the time of my deliverance."
	"On December 22, 1851, my son Joseph Smith
Kimball was born. He was like an Isaac of
old to me.' I had been favored of the Lord to

[Column 2]
have a son born in the new and everlasting
covenant, and I looked upon it as a great
blessing to be thus honored.
	I was living in the adobie row just on the
north side of City Creek, where the first home
Heber C. Kimball built in the valley was sit-
uated. It was very comfortable compared
with what we had been acustomed to since
leaving our homes. It was there my son
Joseph was born, and I was so anxious that
he should grow up in the nurture and admon-
ition of the Lord that I prayed continually
that I might have wisdom to teach him those
things that would be for his highest good, that
he might grow up to be an honor and a bless-
ing in the Kingdom of God. I know now
that my prayers were heard, and I feel that
the Lord has been very merciful to me, and
that though many of my sons were taken away
when young, yet this one has been spared to
me, and in my old age he is my stay and com-
fort, and I expect he will assist me in my work
for the dead in the Temples of the Lord. He
grew to manhood under Gospel influence, for
I never lost sight of the promise I had made
to the Lord to train him up to do His bidding.
I have had more joy, more comfort and more
satisfaction in this one son, who was born in
this celestial order of marriage in the new and
everlasting covenant, than in all the other
children I have borne. He is to me an Isaac
indeed, and I feel to thank God that He gave
me so good and so noble a gift, and I acknowl-
edge His hand in all my trials and afflictions,
and realize that He has guided me safely
through, and that in my declining years I am
reaping the reward promised to the obedieut
and those who keep the commandments of God
without murmuring, and who endure persecu-
tion through evil report as well as good."


GLENWOOD PRIMARY.

	We held our first Primary Stake Fair for
Sevier Stake at Richfield, September 13, and
as far as the articles shown by the children
were concerned, they were excellent, but the
hall was scarcely large enough for such a dis-
play. To enumerate all would take up too
much space. It consisted of fancy work, co-
coons, knitting, home spun yarn, done by some
very small girls, patchwork, sewing, hair work,
mottoes, photography, crochet, wagons, rakes,
tables, cupboards, cradles, shovels, forks, cor-
rals, with cows, pigs, etc., spades, marbles,
dishes, vegetables of all descriptions, bread,
pies, cakes, pickles, preserves, cheese, butter,
canned fruit, catsup, etc., etc. All was excel-
lent, and deserving of great praise, but we
could not help admiring very much a minia-
ture threshing machine, made by Lewis Baker,
aged 13 or 14, who threshed some wheat, show-
ing that it really worked, also Brother Bean's
residence, made by his daughter Chloe, of
cardboard and paper, and a bridle made by a
young boy, also a fall-leaf table by Joseph
Harne, and many other note-worthy articles.
	We visited the Primaries lately and find
them much improved to what they were two
years ago. Ever praying for the welfare of
Zion,		We remain,
		LOUISIANA HEPPLER, President,
		PHOEBE PIERCE, Secretary.


Dr. Lucy Hall, of Massachusetts Woman’s
Prison, said, at the conclusion of a carefully
prepared paper, at the Social Science Associa-
tion, the other day: “Nowhere is there an ac-
tive work of reform more needed than among
the mill population of our State. Those who
know only what were the social conditions
there twenty or thirty years ago can form but
an imperfect idea of the depravity and dis-
order which now prevail in these localities."


76	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMEN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.

	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, OCTOBER 15, 1883.


OCTOBER CONFERENCE, 1883.

	The Fifty-third semi annual Conference,
which was held in this city Oct. 5, 6 and 7, was
certainly one of the largest and most interesting
that has ever been convened. It signifies the
growth and importance of the Kingdom of God
upon the earth. The large Tabernacle was
crowded to its utmost capacity, and hundreds
were unable to gain admittance. Indeed, the
streets were so thronged during the hours of ser-
vice that one might [---] have imagined meet-
ing was over. All this is prophetic. It forshad-
ows the glorious future to which the Saints have
looked forward with such fond anticipation. The
teaching and preaching during the three days of
Conference were [-]mi[-]enty calculated to edify
and elevate as well as comfort, and the Holy
Spirit seemed to carry testimony to the hearts
of all who heard. It was a season of refreshing
as well as rejoicing, and will assuredly tend to
strengthen the faith of the Saints.
	The progress of the work the Latter-day
Saints are engaged in, according to the statisti-
cal reports, is certainly most encouraging and
shows how completely the enemies of the work
have been defeated in their efforts to hinder its
spread. The fact that the immense congrega-
tions were edified and satisfied with the instruc-
tions given, and the spirit of the Conference is
sufficient proof in itself, to those acquainted
with the Gospel and its effects, that there was a
power and influence with those who addressed
the great concourse of people that satisfied the
soul of the lover of truth and intelligence; for
the "Mormons," as they are called, fully un-
derstand the genuine ring of the true metal and
cannot be palmed off with counterfeits, or a
semblance of Gospel truth.
	It was a very peaceful gathering, nothing
seemingly to annoy or disturb the even flow of
the Spirit of God.
	The music of the Tabernacle choir being as a
whole the composition of home composers, Lat-
ter-day Saints, was something out of the com-
mon, and marks in a noticeable degree the ad-
vancement in the higher attainments of this
people. Some of the pieces were sublime, many
were excellent, and all were good, and the su-
perior rendering of the music helped those who
listened to appreciate home talent in music. In
vocal and instrumental music the Latter-day
Saints excel, and this is an elevating and inspir-
ing element in the Church, in the home, and in
the community. A great deal has been accom-
plished in this direction, but when the Temples
are completed there will of necessity be an im-
mense number of the sweet singers of Israel
needed, as well as players upon the timbrel, the
harp and other instruments used for sacred wor-
ship, so that after all this is only the beginning.


In Zion it is expected will be found not only
the most skilled workman, but that the cultiva-
tion of all the higher attributes and qualities of
one's nature will bring the highest standard of
perfection possible upon this earth.
	In this connection so much might be said that
one can get but a faint idea, a glimpse only of
the beauty, the glory and the excellence of that
which is to come. But while one contemplates
all these magnificent results to be achieved he
must not lose sight of the identical present upon
which so much of the great future depends.


CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION.
			AND WOMAN'S SUFFRAGE.
	As per adjournment the Utah Constitutional
Convention met in the City Hall, Tuesday, Oct.
9, at 10 a.m, Hon. Joseph F. Smith President
in the chair. A majority of the delegates were
present. The roll was called and the chaplain,
W. W. Cluff, offered prayer. The President an-
nounced the death of Hon. L E. Harrington, 
First Vice-President of the Conventiton, which
occured since the last session, on June 21, 1883.
The President apointed as a committee to draft
a suitable expressino of the sentiments of the
Convention occasioned by his death, Hon. John
E. Booth, Provo, Arthur Stayner, Farmington,
and Joseph E. Stanford, Ogden. Committee
reported teh following resolutions:

	Whereas, Providence in its wisdom has, since
our last meeting, removed from us our highly 
respected Brother, the Hon. L. E. Harrington,
senior vice president of this Convention.
	Therefore be if Reselved, by this body, in con-
vention assembled, that while we sincerely de-
plore the absence of our beloved brother, we
acknowledge with pleasure the nobility of soul
and manliness of purpose which ever actuated
him in his walk in public life. He was a man
known intimately to the public for upwards of
35 years, during which time he, to an eminent
degree, enjoyed the entire and richly laden con-
fidence of the public. In a political capacity in 
which this body has more particularly known
him, we realize that he was strictly honest, un-
selfish, broad in his views, sanguine for the good
of the people, undeviating in what he recog-
nized as the right course. He served the Terri-
tory as a Legislator consecutively for 80 years
having been elected to the first Assembly.
	Resolved, That in the demise of our colleague
this Territory has lost a staunch advocate for
the rights of the people, a conscientious citizen
and a Christian gentleman.
	Resolved--That we extend our sympathies to
the family and relatives of our deceased friend,
and that a copy of these resolutions be furnished
to his family and be published in the Utah pa-
pers.
	Hon. John T. Caine moved that the report of 
the committee be accepted and resolutions adop-
ted as the sentiments of the Convention.
	Attention was called to the vacancy in the of-
fice caused by the death of Mr. Harrington, and
Mr. Caine nominated Hon. A. O. Smoot as
First Vice-President of the Convention. Sec-
onded and unanimously carried, and Mr. Smoot
took the Vice-President's chair. 
	The committee on nominations, appointed
June 6, presented the following report:
	Mr. President and Members of the Conven-
tion:
	Gentlemen-- Your committee on nominations
to whom was referred the duty of nominating a
successor to Hon. Wm. H. Hooper, deceased, as
member of the Constitutional Delegation to
Washington, beg leave to report and recom-
mend that Hon. Moses Thatcher be elected by
the Convention as delegate to fill said vacancy.
				D. H. WELLS,
				A. O. SMOOT,
				L. JOHA NUTTALL,
				EMMELINE B. WELLS,
			 Committee on Nominations. 
	Which was read and, on motion of Mr. Tan-
ner, accepted and the recommendation thereof
unanimously adopted, and Honorable Moses
Thatcher appointed.
	Hon. C. W. Penrose presented the following:
	Mr. President--I move that in case of a va-
cancy occurring in the Delegation to Washing-
ton from any cause, or if any member thereof
is unable to attend to the duties of Delegate,
during the adjournment of this Convention the
President be authorized to fill the vacancy by
appointment, Carried.
	Committee on printing presented their report
as follows:
	Mr. President-- Your committee on printing 
respectfully report that the reports of the Dele-
gates to Washington and of the committee on
statistics have been printed as ordered by the
Convention.		C. W. Nibley, Chairman.
	Mr. Nuttall presented the following mo-
tion:
	I move that when this Convention adjourns-- 
it be to meet at the place on Monday, April 7th,
1881, at 7 o'clock p.m. unless sooner called to-
gether by the President. 	Carried.
	After the reading and approving of the jour-
nal, on motion of Mr. Caine, the Convention ad-
journed.
	The committee appointed to present the Con-
stitution to Congress will probably be able to do
some real practical work in Washington this
coming winter, There can be no good reason
why Utah should not be admitted as a State.
Every condition that the Declaration of Inde-
pendence requires has been complied with and
yet the people are compelled to submit to have a 
Governor and other officials appointed without
their approval or consent, who come here full
of bitter feeling and prejudice to take charge of
the affairs of the Territory.
	However, it is only a question of time, for the
thrift and prosperity of the people, and the con-
stantly increasing products and resources of
Utah are bound to be recognized yet in such a 
way that it will be impossible to debar her peo-
ple from such self-government as statehood
will allow them. When Utah is admitted into
the Union as a State with a Woman's Suffrage
plank in its platform, the women of Utah will
perhaps be acknowledged as having a place
among the women of the nation, which is now
ignored. The newspapers tell us a great deal
about Women Suffrage in Wyoming, and that
women vote on school questions in seven differ-
ent States, and so forth and so on, but Utah,
where women have voted for more than twelve
years, is scarce considered; forsooth, because
"Mormon" women vote. Are not  "Mormon" 
women's votes as good as those of "Mormon"
men? And neither men nor women are allowed
to cast a vote, or hold an office of any kind if they
are now, or ever have been living in the practice
of plural marriage. Are there not people in the
world who hold what might be termed hetero-
doxical views of marriage? Indeed there are,
but they are not religious views! Now that all
this class of  "Mormons" are disfranchised, (un-
standponit) what can there be so distasteful
about woman suffrage here that it  cannot be
spoken of with other States and Territories in
that connection? Certainly the women of Utah
are as honest, as upright, as conscientious, as in-
dustrious, as temperate, as amiable as the
women of other parts of the Commonwealth.


It can only be the same sort of prejudice tha
existed in the days of our Savior, when it was
said, "Can any good thing come out of N[-]z[-]-
reth?" But notwithstanding all this hatred and
bitterness, woman's star is in the ascendency,
and the women of Zion will yet be among the
foremost in lifting a banner to the nations that
will be worthy of recognition. And men will
be purer and better socially and politically in
consequence of the advance made by the women
who are engaged in the struggle for equal po-
litical rights. We hope that during the coming
winter some rapid strides may be made towards
the consummation so ardently desired by all
woman suffragists, the passage of the sixteenth
amendment. It takes time to convert the peo-
ple to these new ideas on the subject of voting;
for only a few yet comprehend the advantages
to be derived from woman's influence in poli-
tics.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


(Column 1)

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE performances of the Home Dramatic As-
sociation during Conference were as good a rep-
resentation of the talent of the company as
could possibly be given. The presentation of
the two plays, "P[-]que" and "Green Lines of
England," were in good taste for the occasion,
and the crowded houses and enthusiastic ap-
plause proved how appreciative were the audi-
ences. Nothing could have been more appropri-
ate than these selections. The stage appoint-
ments, scenery, etc., and the way in which the
plays were put upon the boards, as well as the
exquisi e costumes of the performers were all in
admirable harmony.
	ON Tuesday the 16th inst. the missionaries
to E[-]rope take their departure from Salt Lake
to their fields of labor.—On Tuesday the 23rd,
it is expected they will sail from New York in
the steamer Abyesinia of the Gaion L'ne. With
these missionaries there will be several ladies,
some bound for the States, and of hers will cross
the sea. Mrs. John Reeves, of Ogden, goes to
England to visit her relatives. Mrs. Josephine
Smith to join her husband, Apostle John H.
Smith, now President of the European Mission,
and Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, who will go to
Germany and Switzerland, where her husband,
Elder John Q Cannon, has been laboring for
over two years, most of that time in Germany,
and has recently been appointed to preside over
the Swiss and German mission. We congratu-
late these sisters on the opportunity they will
enjoy, not only in visiting other countries, but
in aiding the Elders who are laboring in there
important missions to spread a knowledge of
the true gospel among the nations. From our
daughter Annie we shall expect to receive regu-
lar contributions to the EXPONENT, which will
no doubt add greatly to the attractions of our 
little paper.
	WE have received the first copy of THE
Woman's Tribune, published by The Nebraska
Woman's Suffrage Association, Motto: "Equali-
ty before the Law," price one dollar a year. It
is quite an undertaking, but Nebraska women
can surely sustain a paper of this kind in their
own interests, and it will be an important factor
in educating the people up to the standard nec-
essary to carry the state for woman's suffrage.
The editor, Mrs. Cara B. Colby, of Beatrice,
Neb., is a very able person, has excellent execu-
tive ability and literary attainment as well.
She can both plan and execute as well as speak
and write. We had the pleasure of meeting her
at Omaha at the N. W. S. A. Convention in
the fall of 1882, and know whereof we speak.
She has all the elements of character so essen-
tial for a thorough worker in the woman suffrage
field of labor, as well as those calculated to

(Column 2)

make her [-]n efficient journalist. We wish the 
paper every success, alo[-]it the first copy con-
tains the Circul[-]r of the Anti Polygamy Stand-
ard, which sets forth in the most odious manner
the condition of Mormon women, and calls for 
help to "commend this good work." This very
advertising of theirs will cause many to examine
the "Mormon" question, which these advocates
of rig[-]d measures from Congress who urge en-
fo[-]c[-]m[-]nt of unjust laws would gladly hinder.
Investigation of our question by intelligent men
and women is exactly what we "Mormons"
want.
	Dr. E S Barney, accordingto appointment,
gave her first free lecture on the subject of Laws
of Life to the Young Ladies Association in the
13th Ward, Oct. 9th, and we learn from those
who were present that full satisfaction was
given and that it was highly  creditable to her-
self. She was in the 8th Ward lecturing to the
Young Ladies on the 1[-]th of this month and
they listened with profound attention, and by
invitation she will continue the same subject on
the 26th of Oct. at ths same place at 8 p.m. Her
medical class has commenced ast her resilence,
and those that have come express themselvss
that the facilities which she offers to the stu-
dents surpasses their expectations. We learn
they still are coming, and it is to be hoped that
those interested will spare no pains in avail-
ing themselves of the offer before it is too late.


THE BOOK OF ETHER.

	The Book of Ether is one of the most inter-
esting books in the Book of Mormon. It is a
short synopsis or abridgement of the record of
Jaredites, which was written upon twenty-four
plates of gold. These plates were found by
the subjects of King Limhi, who were sent by
that monarch to discover the land of Zarahem-
la in the second century before Christ. They
did not find the land they desired, but wan-
dered into the northern continent, where they
found many remains of the Jaredites, and
amongst other things these plates. It was Mo-
roni who made the abridgement which is found
in the Book of Mormon, and he says he has
not written a hundredth part of what was re-
corded on the plates, but he has interspersed
the original narrative with many explanatory
notes, interpolations, prophecies, etc., of his
own. It seems from his remarks that the lan-
guage is almost entirely his own, and that he
has seldom followed the text of the original
records, as a man might in these days write a
life of Moses, founded on what are known as
the Five Books of Moses in the Bible, and yet
scarcely ever quote the original exactly.
	The Jaredites appear in their time to have
been the mightiest nation of antiquity. They
rose into power quicker than either Egypt or
Chaldea, and having the whole western world
as their domain, with no other race or nation
to oppose them. Their increase in numbers
was remarkably rapid, while at the same time
they developed a civilization peculiar to them-
selves, in which promises were realized accord-
ing to their faithfulness to heaven. They were
also threatened by their prophets with dire ca-
lamities if they forsook the Lord and practised
iniquity; unfortunately for them they frequent-
ly gave way to sin from too great prosperity,
and ultimately grew so wicked that they were
exterminated from the face of the land. The
wicked killing the wicked until there were
none left. And so they were destroyed. So it
is declared shall all nations be who dwell on
this most blessed land, when they utterly and
entirely forsake the ways of righteousness and
give themselves over to iniquity.
	The only account of this mighty people who
at one time filled both North and South Amer-


ica is contained in Mormon's abridgement.
Doubtless the time will come when much more
that is contained on the twenty-four golden
plates will be revealed. And then not only
shall we know more about the Jaredites, but
also of the earlier inhabitants of the world, for
these plates not only contain an account of
Jared and his people, but also of the creation
of the world, with a history of its people up
to the time of the building of the great tower
from whence Jared and his colony came.
								G. R.
	Manuscript paper, Young Ladies' Journal,
Nephi, Utah.


[For the EXPONENT.]
A FEW REFLECTIONS.

	While attending our late Conference and
listening to with much interest to the statistical
report of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints, which to many people is very dry,
but to me is full of intense interest; it is a
sermon of itself; it speaks volumes, my mind
reverts back to the time when the Church was
first organized, on the 6th of April, 1830, with
six members, with a young man at their head
but 24 years of age; not a graduate from any
of the known established colleges of the day,
nor a salaried minister, nor with any of the
qualifications supposed to be necessary to pre-
pare men for preaching the gospel in this
highly enlightened age.
	What were the qualifications of this young
man, Joseph Smith, the great Prophet of the
nineteenth century? We are told in the Book
of Mormon (Second Book of Nephi, Second
Chapter) that Joseph, who was carried captive
into Egypt, prophesied that in the latter days
the Lord would raise up a Seer, "and", says
Joseph, "his name shall be called after me; and
and it shall be after the name of his father."
Now, this is one proof that he was predestina-
ted to come forth and perform a certain work,
for Joseph further says concerning him, the
Seer, "and he shall be like unto me, for the
thing which the Lord shall bring forth by His
hand, by the power of the Lord, shall bring
my people unto salvation:"
	If there was any disposition to doubt that
Joseph Smith was the one here spoken of we
have only to call to mind the fact that in an-
swer to his prayers the Lord himself and His
Son, Jesus Christ, appeared to him and told
him that the Gospel in its fulness should be re-
vealed to him, not at that time, but when he
should be sufficiently educated. Was there a
college upon the earth at that time, in which
this young man could receive an education that
would fit and prepare him to bring forth the
Gospel and officiate in its ordinances for the
living and the dead? to build temples to the
Most High God and administer in His name?
Not this side of heaven. Jesus Christ himself
gave him his first lesson, then Moroni, an an-
cient Prophet of the Lord, came and unfolded
to him mysteries that had been hid from the
world for many generations; it took about nine
years to complete his education and fit him for
the work that was before him. After he had
been educated sufficiently was he fully pre-
pared to commence the great work for the hu-
man family? No, he had not yet received his
commission. When a person takes a normal
course of studies, with a view to becoming a
teacher, when their course is finished they have
to undergo an examination, and if they are
able to pass with credit to themselves and sat-
i-faction to their instructors they receive a cer-
tificate to that effect, and are then prepared to
enter upon their duties as teachers. Just so
with Joseph Smith, he had received his educa-
tion from Jesus Christ, the son of the living
God, from holy men that had lived on this
earth in ages long gone by, and who had come


from the courts of heaven direct from God the
Eternal Father, to teach and instruct him in
the duties that should be required of him, but
until those who held the keys of the everlasting
Priesthood, the authority by which men admin-
ister in the things of God, come and conferred
that same authority upon him he had no right
to act. But I am digressing; we started out
with the statistical report, which shows a
wonderful increase in our numbers since the
organization of the Church, and I could not
help but think that those who are waiting and
watching for Mormonism to die, would, if they
listened to that report, begin to get somewhat
discouraged, and conclude that for a dying in-
institution it was wonderfully thrifty. I lis-
tened attentively (I could not certainly be
called disinterested) but I have a great desire
to learn the true status of things generally, and
I must say that I failed to preceive any signs
of decay. I cannot think that our healthy
condition is due to any especial care that has
been bestowed upon us by those who are not
of us, as I have never, since I can remember,
seen anything that would induce me to to be-
lieve that we were a pet of even the parent
government that we love so well; they have
never provided food, raiment or shelter for us
when they could help it; they have even turned
us out of doors, and seem pretty determined
in their own minds to keep us out. I cannot
help but conclude that if our welfare had
depended upon their tender care alone
that we should have been, by this time, in
about the situation they would like to see us, to
use some of their own expressions, used up.
But we know in whom to trust; we know who
has sheltered us from the rude blast, who has
turned aside the wrath of the enemy and made
it an instrument for good, who has comforted
us in times of affliction, who has bound up the
broken heart and made it to rejoice in times of
sore trial, and "His arm is not shortened, and
His hand is stretched out still;" we have
nothing to fear but ourselves. Father's prom-
ises are sure, we have only to obey.
	RUTH.
Salt Lake City, Oct. 10, 1883.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

PANGUITCH STAKE R. S. CONFERENCE.
	The Quarterly Conference of the Panguitch
Stake Relief Society was held Aug. 31st,
1883, President Barbara Myers presiding.
There were present on the occasion Apostle
Erastus Snow, John R. Murdock, Prest. of the
Beaver Stake, Prest. J. W. Crosby and several
of the leading brethren.
	After singing and prayer minutes of the last
conference were read and approved, and verbal
and written reports were given. President
Barbara Myers said it was a very busy time,
but was glad to see so many out; circumstances
had prevented her visiting all the Stake. Ex-
horted the sisters to do all they could to teach
their children the principles of the Gospel.
Spoke of the storing of grain.
	Apostle E. Snow said he was pleased to meet
with the sisters, and also the brethren; spoke
of training the youth, felt to encourage sing-
ing and music to make home cheerful and en-
tertaining; not to give way to evil speaking,
but be ready to hold up the hands of the weak,
and those that are afflicted to give them joy.
	Prest. Murdock said it was with feelings of
gratitude he stood before us; did not know what
was calculated to do more good than these
meetings of the Relief Societies; felt to admire
the prospects we had before us; said it was the
small things that counted in the Kingdom;
that the sisters were the refining part of the
community; if we had intelligence it should be

[Column 2]

used; that the sisters had as much to do in
their sphere as the brethren, and one was not
without the other in the building up of the
Kingdom of God.
	Prest. J. W. Crosby Jr. spoke a few encour-
aging words; urged the secretary to get blanks
and get their reports up in proper shape; to be
careful how we censured others, and be gener-
ous in our feelings.
	Conference was adjourned for three months.
Singing. Benediction by Joseph L. Heywood.
	SARAH P. CROSBY, Secretary.

	OMER, ARIZONA.
DEAR EDITOR:
	We were first organized as a Relief Society
under the direction of P. J. Christofferson,
Jan. 1st 1879. We were then reorganized with
the assistance of Sister W. East, Stake Presi-
dent of Relief Society, Aug. 26, 1879, with
Sister Cecelia Hamblin, President; Mary
Skouson and Polly Greer, Counselors; Julia
Johnson, Secretary. A change was made in
the officers Aug. 24, 1881, with Sister Emily
Burke, President; Mary Skouson and Margrett
M. Dewit, Counselors; Mary B. Eagar, Secre-
tary; Ada A. Earl, Assistant Secretary; Celia
Jenson, Treasurer; and 29 members enrolled.
	The Society is now in a more prosperous con-
dition than ever before. Our Bishop and the
other brethren have kindly given us a lot, and
we have paid for the lumber to fence it; we
want to plant some mulberry trees, to see what
they will do in this country. We anticipate
building a house during the summer; we have
a very healthy climate and a good people; they
seem to be trying to live their religion and
build up the waste places of Zion. We are on
very friendly terms with our Mexican neigh-
bors; we can see a great difference in their
dress and customs since we came among them,
although none of them have embraced the Gos-
pel, yet there are some believing it.
	The EXPONENT comes to us like a dear old
friend to cheer and bless us; we prize it very
much in this far off land. Ever praying for
our sisters who are spending their time and
energies for the welfare of Zion, we remain
your sisters in the Covenant, E. J. Burk, Presi-
dent; Mary M. Eagar, Secretary; Ada A. Earl,
Assistant Secretary.

UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of Quarterly Conference of the Re-
lief Society of Utah Stake, held August 31st,
1883, Counselor Mary John presiding. Visi-
tors from Salt Lake City, Sisters E. R. Snow
Smith, E. B. Wells, H. M. Whitney and E. S.
Taylor.
	Conference opened with the usual exercises
of singing and prayer, reading of minutes and
reports of the societies throughout the county.
	Counselor Mary John made a few remarks,
in which she expressed her pleasure at meeting
with the sisters in conference again, and re-
gretted that we were deprived, through sick-
ness, of having Ma Smoot or Sister Cluff with
us; she would say that with the help of the
Lord she was determined to hold out faithful
to the end.
	Sister E. B. Wells was pleased with the re-
ports of Utah County, thought they would
compare favorably with any other reports she
had ever heard in any Conference of Relief
Society that she had attended. Said it was
wonderful to think the good these societies
were doing. There is power in the women of
Zion in helping the Priesthood; exhorted the
sisters to be more punctual in attending these
meetings. Spoke in the interest of the Deseret
Hospital and of the good it was doing for the
afflicted, and explained its practical workings,
invited the sisters to renew their membership,
etc.
	Sister E. R. Snow Smith said she was al-

[Column 3]

ways pleased to meet with the sisters in a con-
ference capacity. The Spirit of God brings
enjoyment, and when we unite together we
draw down the blessings of heaven. What a
blessing these organizations are, they bring us
together, like coals of fire, imparting warmth
and life to one another. There is a mutual
love that actuates these sisters towards each
other. We should realize our positions, and
so live that our examples would have an enno-
bling influence; let us put away our follies that
we may be worthy to join with holy beings, we
are not far from them. We must get rid of
all selfishness; let us become God-like that we
may be saviors on Mount Zion. We want to
live to do good, and the heavens rejoice over
us.
	Sister E. S. Taylor followed with some very
good remarks on various subjects. The Relief
Societies, Y. L. M. I. Associations, Primaries,
etc. Advised mothers to watch over their
children, give them good counsel and advice,
and use their influence in having them join
these societies.
	Conference adjourned till 2 p.m.
	Afternoon session opened with singing and
prayer, Sister E. R. Snow Smith presiding.
Said she would like to hear from the presi-
dents of the different societies, just as the
spirit dictated. We should always bear our
testimony when occasions offer, those testimo-
nies never grow old, for we know not that we
will be able to testify the same to-morrow that
we do to-day, for many have fallen away from
the truth.
	A number of the presidents bore a faithful
testimony to the truth of this work.
	Sister H. M. Whitney said, she could bear
her testimony to the truth of this work, "and
without we each have a testimony for our-
selves we can never stand. I love the saints
of God. We must be humble and prayerful
and live near to God and if we have weak-
nesses try to overcome them, and press forward
and draw our loved ones after us. I cannot
doubt this Gospel any more than I can doubt
my existence. Any one that will step for-
ward and sustain celestial marriage will be
blest in so doing; let us be united, for in union
there is power."
	Sister E. S. Taylor gave the sisters good
instructions, especially young mothers, in re-
gard to their children. Spoke of her knowl-
edge of the truth of celestial marriage, and
the result of it in her owu family.
	Sister E. B. Wells said, I think we have
had excellent teachings. Spoke of Doctor
Barney's offer to teach, and thought the sis-
ters should avail themselves of the opportuni-
ties given for instruction, as we were very de-
ficient in good midwives and nurses, more es-
pecially in the outlying settlements, and Dr.
Barney's offer was not often met with; said we
need to study to promote the prolongation of
human life, and how to be more healthy and
strong. We want to raise men and women
physically strong as well as intellectually and
morally so. Made intelligent remarks upon
this subject, as also upon education; advised
the sisters to become acquainted with law and
government, that those who had the privilege
of voting might do so understandingly.
	Sister Snow Smith said, I want to talk about
this medical school. There will never be such
an offer again; we ought to have 1,000 sisters
learning. We want knowledge. Death often
ensues just from the want of knowledge. We
should be up and doing. Woe to those that
are at ease in Zion. If the sisters can call
back to life the sleepy ones it will be a great
work; spoke eloquently upon this subject for
some little time.
	Bishops Johnson and Madsen both bore
their testimonies to the truth of this work and
also eudorsed all that had been said by the


sisters; exhorted all to live near to the Lord
and gain a testimony for themselves.
	Sister Duke could bear her testimony that
this was the work of God, and rejoiced there-
in.
	By request of Sister Snow Smith the sisters
sang the song, "I dreamed a dream." Confer-
ence adjourned for three months.
			CAROLINE DANIELS, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 79


NEPHI PRIMARY.

	The Nephi Primary Fair, held in the meet-
ing house on Sept. 21 and 22, 1883, was largely
attended by admiring visitors. The Fair ex-
hibited a variety of cooking, needle work, cro-
chet, etc., executed by the girls, vegetables and
a little wood work done by the boys.
	This is the third Fair the children of Nephi
have had, and there is a marked improvement
visible between each; not only in the number
of articles handed in for view, but also in the
execution and variety of them.
	On Sept. 27th the Primary had their Confer-
ence, which was held in the meeting house. It,
also, was largely attended by the Primary
Children, their parents and friends. The time
was occupied by the children's exercises and
addresses from officers and visitors.
			L. ADDIE SCHOFIELD, Secretary.


[Column 1]
A RICH KINGDOM BUT POOR SUB-
JECTS.

	We are learning a little about the city
wherein we have located ourselves for the
present. We find it a matter of congratula-
tion that there is an old open market place of
the most orthodox stamp—booths, and old
women and maidens in short dresses to offer
us their wares in the most guttural German.
	The Elbe runs through the very heart of the
city, and promises many a delightful tramp
over its old bridges. Soldiers and officers of all
ranks are to be met with at every turning.
Americans and English people are fond of the
place for winter, and quite an English air per-
vades one section of the city. We have rather
a far away feeling ourselves in this out-of-the-
way corner of Saxony. The country round
about is no doubt very beautiful, and the situ-
ation of the city particularly charming.
	The kingdom of Saxony is rich, the people
poor, taxes heavy, and living high. The land
is under good cultivation, but the people—es-
pecially the women—work hard. We have
seen here what we have not seen anywhere
else—a woman and a dog harnessed into a cart,
while a man, husband or father, perhaps,
walked comfortably along in the rear, or
loaded up the wagon for his team.
	The army claims the larger part of the able-
bodied men. The people seem industrious.
Beggars are not permitted in the streets, yet
we feel that there is more poverty here than
anywhere we have yet been on the Continent.
The working women have a worn-out look.
The children of the lower classes look poorly
fed. Nearly all of them are bow-legged or de-
formed in some way—the imperfection proba-
bly being due to lack of nutritious food and
overwork.
	We find by this afternoon's drive that the
environs of the place are very attractive, and
the city larger and finer than we thought. Au-
gustus II., called "the strong," was a lover of
show and splendor. To him the people
largely indebted for their start in art and civi-
lization. Augustus III. improved largely on
what he found. The princes and kings of
Saxony from that day down have not been
backward in enriching the kingdom in all di-
rections.
	The old palace is not by any means one of

[Column 2]
the ornaments of the place. It is dark, gloomy
and unsightly on the outside. Thus far it
proves a riddle to us, for it has anything but
an inviting exterior. Why, with means that
enables one to a choice of a habitation, any one
should be willing to remain long in its gloomy
vicinity, it puzzles us to divine, yet we are told
there is great wealth under the royal roof.
	The Grosse Garten, which is outside the
Pirna gate, is laid out as a royal park and is
the favorite drive of the king. It embraces
about three hundred acres. It is a most de-
lightful spot for afternoon riding. The princi-
pal entrance to the garden is adorned by mar-
ble vases of fine workmanship, having bas-re
liefs of the seasons and allegorical figures of
the four quarters of the world. There are
many fine statues through the grounds. A
handsome palace in the Renaissance style has
been recently erected within the park. The
Reitschel Museum and the Museum of Antiqui-
ty are among the attractions of this palace.
Several restaurants are scattered through the
grounds. Good bands of music lend a cheeri-
ness to the place. A beautiful pond is not the
least among its attractions. The swans, who
seem to hold it as their especial property, are
decidedly social in their tendencies, making
friends with us quite readily.
	We return from the Garten by another way,
getting a lovely view of some of the mountains
of Saxon Switzerland, and driving home past
several palaces and fine buildings. We discov-
er that there are very few detached houses for
single families. The Germans have a taste for
living in a horizontal direction. Where in
our way we would put up a block of buildings,
dividing it into separate houses side by side,
with dividing walls, steps and hallways appro-
priated to each house, these people would use
the room in their own fashion. They would
have but one large entrance, and all the rooms
on one floor would be the establishment of a
single family, who would in no way be brought
more in contact with their neighbors than we
are with the persons who live side by side with
us. Of course, as yet we do not see the par-
ticular advantages of this manner of living,
except that it is more democratic than our
own. Respectable persons of small means may
find more desirable homes, perhaps, than they
would otherwise. Prince and peasant fre-
quently live under the same roof, the aristo-
cratic part of the community taking the best
part of the building while the humbler mem-
bers climb up to the garrets or descend to the
basement.		*		*		*		*
—Ex.					RUTH RANDOM.


NOTES AND NEWS.
Princess Beatrice has agreed to furnish, at a
given price, some pencil sketches for an Eng-
glish monthly.
	Miss Sybil Carter spoke on Mormonism at
the Boston Ministers’Meeting in Pilgrim Hall,
last week. The hall was crowded.
	Mrs. Mary B. Clay, of Kentucky, has re-
moved to Ann Arbor, Mich., to secure educa-
tional advantages for her children.
	"The women needed a rebuke,” says a
friendly cotemporary, because some of them
asked for a governor who would not veto a bill
conceding a fraction of their political rights.
--Ex.
	It is thought that if women were eligible
for Parliament, Mrs. Fawcett would be the
first chosen. She was one of the four Misses
Garrett, two of whom distinguished themselves
as decorative furnishers and designers.--Ex.
	A Norwegian Methodist Church has been
organized in Salt Lake City, with a member-
ship of twenty-five members. A Norwegian
pastor has been obtained from Chicago, and a
lady as a teacher. It is supposed that there are
7,000 Scandinavians in Salt Lake City, and
30,000 in Utah.—Ex. This is pretty good testi-
mony that there is religious tolerance in
Utah. Different religious sects: come here 
and build up their churches and seek to
make convents unprevented.
	The autumn leaves are now donning their
gorgeous array. In the canyons, the beautiful
tints are so diversified that one cannot choose
between them; they remind one of a bevy of
beautiful girls, some possessing one charm and
some another, but all wonderully fascinating
and attractive. Not only are the hills and
mountain sides glorious in their foliage at this
season in flaming red and flaunting yellow,
with all the peculiar shades and variations, but
one can appropriate much of this beauty to the
adornment of the home. The grouping and
arranging of autumn leaves is a sort of dec-
orative art, and has a very pretty effect, espe-
cially when they are artistically woven or fash-
ioned in fanciful designs. Nature does much
towards making our homes pleasant, by fur-
nishing us the flowers, the leaves, the vines
the evergreens, the autumn leaves and winter
berries. Life is not devoid of beauty, nor of
pleasure, if one will accept the simple delights
of nature. 
	Woman suffrage in Massachusetts.—Demo-
cratic: “We believe in equal rights, without
limitation of sex.” Prohibitory: “We believe
in equal  political rights regardless of sex.”
Greenback: “Equal political rights for all, both
men and women.” Republican: “We favor a
pure and extended suffrage."
	It is impossible to tell the exact meaning of
this last sentence. It may mean every thing or
nothing, as far as the suffrage for women is
concerned. Taking the platforms as they
stand, it would be fair to say that they indi-
cate a growing public sentiment in favor of
suffrage, and are, taken all together, an ad-
vance on the platforms of previous years.
But before we congratulate ourselves, we shall
wait to see whether those who are elected to
the legislature, upon these platforms, show their
respect for the platforms by acting in conform-
ity with them. We shall be doubly glad and
grateful, if they all unite to relieve women of
the stigma and helplessness which disfranchise-
ment implies and involves, and to relieve
Massachusetts from its greatest shame, viz.,
that of degrading all the women of the Com-
mon-wealth to the political level of its male
criminals and idiots.—Ex


OBITUARY.

	Died, at Brigham City, Box Elder County, Septembe
11th, 1883, of consumption, in the thirty-ninth year of
her age, Elizabeth, beloved wife of John B. McMaster,
and daughter of Thomas and Elizabeth Forrest.
	Deceased was born at Romton, Dumcartonshire,
Scotland, March 6th, 1844; was baptized into the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints when eight
years of age, came to Utah in 1869, and has since been a
resident of Brigham City.
	As a Latter-day Saint her example was ever worthy of
imitation; a true wife and mother, and a faithful mem-
ber of the Relief Society. Deceased has for many years
held the office of a teacher; was also assistant secretary
and performed every duty assigned her with love and de-
votion. To say that we miss our beloved sister does
not express our feelings, but we know that our loss is
her eternal gain. May she rest in peace, as that was her
oft expressed desire before leaving us "to go to rest."
She died as she lived a faithful Saint of God. Her pa-
tience through her sickness was remarkable; not a mur
mur ever escaped her lips; on the contrary, her thoughts
were ever for the good of others until the last.
	To show their appreciation of her virtues the teachers
at the funeral, walked two by two at the head of the
corspe to the Tabernacle, at which President Snow pre-
sided.


[Column 1]

	She leaves a loving husband and three small children
to mourn her departure. I can truly say that for her
death had no sting. Her end was most peaceful—like a 
weary person going to sleep—full of faith in the Lord,
and at peace with all mankind, and with the hope of a
glorious future in the morning of the first resurection.
	She's passed from this cold world of care,
	Into a happier, holier sphere;
	To meet with friends who've gone before,
	Where pain or parting are no more.
		SUSANNA P. BOOTH, President.
		ANNIE N. BOWRING, Secretary.

	Died, at her home in Provo, Thursday morning, Sept.
20, 1883, Mrs Margaret Ann Foster Cluff, beloved wife of
of Harvey H. Cluff of that city. Deceased was born in
Cincinnati, Ohio, January 23, 1840, and came to Utah
when a child in 1851. On her sevententh birthday she
was married in Provo to Elder H. H. Cluff,
Sister Cluff was the mother of four children, three boys
and one girl, who all died when quite young. The lit-
tle girl died while Br. Cluff was absent from his home 
on a mission to Europe. This was a sad blow to the 
young mother, and she never seemed to be quite so well
in health or spirits afterwards, although carefully ful-
filling every duty in her home and in the Church as a 
faithful Latter-day Saint.
	She believed in and accepted as from divine authority
the principle of celestial marriage, and was willing that 
her husband should take other wives. She was a woman
of refined and sensitive feelings and sentiment, benevo-
lent, kind and sympathetic, anxious to do good, and
possessed good executive ability, which manifested itself
in the positions she was called upon to fill in the wo-
man's organizations.
	Sister Cluff accompanied her husband to the Sandwich
Islands, when he went there on a mission in 1869. She
labored there for five years, doing all in her power to as-
sist in elevating and ministering to the natives. Mrs.
Cluff was for several years President of the Young
Ladie's Associations of Utah Stake both before her
mission to the Islands and after her return home.
She was eminently qualified to fill this important
office.
	She also occupied the positian of President of the
Fourth Ward Relief Society of Provo, and was perfectly 
capable of filling that arduous position as well as the
others. She held these honorable positions to the
time of her death. After her return she was chosen as
Second Counselor to Sister Margaret T. Smoot, the
President of all the branches of Relief Society in Utah
Stake, which position she honored and was highly res-
pected in, proving herself very useful to Sister Smoot,
and in the labor to which she was called.
	In 1879 Br. Cluff was again called to go to the Sand-
wich Islands and take charge of the mission, and Sister
Cluff again accompanied him to his field of labor. She
was acquainted with the language and able to do much
good in teaching and instructing the native women; on
account of her capability for that office was appointed
President of the Relief Society on all the Islands. She
traveled continually and assisted the Elders in organiz-
ing several branches of the Relief Society on those 
islands.
	She returned home in 1882, and her health has been 
quite delicate most of the time, but she enjoyed herself
among her former friends and associates, and has now
gone to rest where there is no more pain or sorrow or
suffering forever. Sister Cluff was truely an estimable
women, a faithful advocate of the Gospel, and one who
had great opportunities of doing good. She has gone
to join her little flock behind the veil, and no doubt the
meeting of mother and children was one of rapturous
delight. Her memory will be fondly cherished by those
who had the pleasure of her acquaintance, and her ex-
ample is most worthy of imitation by the daughters of
Zion.
	The funeral services over the remains of this excel-
lent woman were held in the Provo Meeting House
Saturday, September 22. A large assembly of relatives
and friends were preseat. The speakers were Pres. A.
O. Smoot, Coun. David John and Bishop J. E. Booth.
	E. B. W.

	Died, in Newton, Cache Co., Utah, September 15, 1883,
infant son of William F. and Sarah A. Rigby, aged one
year, four months and seventeen days. He died of
cholera infantum and teething. The little one was the
first and only child of its parents, and its mother
grieves very much over his death, as the father is away 
upon a mission the the Southern States, he was called

[Column 2]

last February to go upon this mission. It will be sad
news to him, but the Lord giveth and taketh away.
May He give to those bereaved ones His Holy Spirit to
cheer and comfort them:

	Died, at Snowflake, Arizona, Oct. 3, 1883, Susie J.
Freeman, wife of James M. Stratton, and daughter of
John W. and Adaline Freeman, born March 24th, 1866,
in Washington, Utah.
	She has left a husband and young babe, besides many
friends by whom she will be missed. She has been a 
faithful member of the Y. L. M. I. A. ever since its or-
ganization in 1880. She was ever on hand to do good,
and attended her meetings, for duty never seemed a
task to her; she was in every sense of the word an ex-
ample to the young ladies, and worthy of imitation.
	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.—Inacmuch as it has
pleased our Heavenly Father to take from our midst one
one of our dear sisters, the first of our members by
death, we, the young ladies of the M. I. A. resolve to
manifest our appreciation and respect to our departed
sister.
	Resolved, That we will try to follow the example of
our departed sister in our lives.
	Resolved, That we condole with each other in the
great loss we sustain in our bereavement, and tender this
token of respect and sympathy to her husband, parents
and family, in their hour of trial, hoping that we will
ever emulate her worth.
	Resolved, That we present a copy of these resolutions
to her bereaved family, and publish a copy of the same
in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and place a copy on our
record. May H. Larson, Emma L. Smith, Della Fish,
Committee.


80	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office and Residence on 2d South between 3d
and 4d East Streets.

Special Study has been given to SURGERY, DISEASES
OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS.
☞ Can be Called by Telephone Day or Night.

For Sale at this Office.

BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.

PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,		-	25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,		 40c.	"
POEMS, by E.R. Snow, Vol. 1,		-		$1.00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco,		1.50	"

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
Office and residence, South Temple Street, one
block and a half west of the Valley House.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSIETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

SCHOOL IN MIDWIFERY.

DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT

COMMENCES a new class in her office over Godbe &
Pitts' Drug Store October 8th, at 1 o'clock p.m.
This school was established in 1878. The Term of five
months, three lectures per week, is a practical course
for those who desire to enter at once into this work. It
is advised that those whose circumstances will admit,
attend a second course, for the subject is so comprehen-
sive that a repetition of the lectures is very advan-
tageous, especially to those of limited education.
	Other branches of medicine are taught only as they
bear especially upon this subject. More than that in so
limited a course would be too superficial. Manikin,
charts and instruments are used in teaching
		Tuition..................................................$30.00
		Books....................................................$13.00
	N. B.—Orders for books must be sent in early so as to
get them from the east in time.

[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
☞ We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

a Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

[Image of store]
HENRY DINWOODEY.

FURNITURE,
WALL PAPER,
CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUNS
AND WINDOW CORNICES
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT SALT LAKE CITY.

F Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
☞ CALL AND EXAMINE. ☜


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
	VOL. 12. 		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1, 1883.				no.11.


AN OLD FOLK'S WEDDING RHYME.
	THEIR FIFTY-SEVENTH WEDDING DAY.
	One summer morn in early life
		Sweet bells rang on the air,
	Light footsteps hurried to and fro
		Around a happy pair.
	For on the good ship Union
		The captain, Christopher, stood,
	And by his side his fair young bride
		With courage true and good.

	Bound for a long, long journey
		Around the world so wide,
	Well freighted down with love and faith.
		For calm, or tempest's tide.
	And during fifty seven years,
		Captain and mate have sailed
	In safety over rock and reef,
		Through many a heavy gale.

	And every passenger they took
		They brought in safety through.
	And twice they stopt in heaven's bay
		And left there, dear ones, too.
	Long may the good ship Union sail!
		And their last journey o'er--
	May Captain Christopher andwife
		Anchor on heaven's shore.
					AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.


ONE LITTLE JEWEL.

Ambrose Pare! fair and noble!
	Dowered with Heaven's rarest charms.
Oh, the pure, ecstatic gladness
	When I hold him in my arms.

Nothing ever gave more pleasure
	Than a look into his eyes.
Tears assuaged by his sweet presence,
	As were banished all my sighs.

Oh, I ne'er could tire in gazing
	On his feature's perfect mold;
In their depths such wonder tracing,
	None but mothers can behold.

But the thousand little dimples
	All could see whene'er he smiled;
All could feel his gentle presence
	Though a little infant child.

And if e'er a happy mother
	Felt a pride in one she loved,
True 'twas I, though oft I trembled
	As by some deep impulse moved.

Yet I knew that he was given
	By a Father ever kind
As a brilliant beam from Heaven,
	To all else my heart was blind.

I never thought, e'en for a moment,
	That he might not long remain;
That the One who lends these jewels
	Sometimes calls them back again.

So absorbed with my treasure I scarce can remember
How have passed all the months since that chilly No-
	vember.
Let me think for a moment, yes, 'twas Maytime I know,
When the snow had all melted, the wind ceased to
	blow;
The hills were adorned with fair flowers and bright
	green—
I'm sure, for these flowers were the first he had seen.

But alas, the bright Springtime was to me, ah, so soon
Changed from glory and brightness to darkness and
	gloom.
From my beautiful babe I was destined to part;
He was snatched from my home, but not from my heart.
Far too pure for earth's coldness, its sorrow and sin,
Heaven's gate opened for him; he has now passed with-
	in.


O, that meteor bright that illumined my sky,
Soon passed from its zenith to realms upon high.
And to be true and faithful, to meet him again,
Is the guerdon I crave for this parting of pain.
Still honor the Father, the great all-wise Giver,
And join the loved ones near that "Beautiful River."
	E. R. S.


FORTUNE TELLING.

	I know this subject will be interesting to
most, if not all the young ladies who read the
EXPONENT. I have long wished that I could
express my views to the young ladies upon this
subject, but a fear that I should not do the
subject justice, has caused me to neglect it. I 
scarcely expect my views to harmonize with
those of all the young people, but I hope and
believe that there are some who will agree with
me. Young ladies, do you know who you are?
Well, I think I hear some young ladies say,
we think we do. Exactly, you think you do.
Well, now, to my mind if you understand who
you are, who placed you here upon this fair
earth, and what you were placed here for, you
will never need to go to some one who shuffles
a pack of cards, or turns a teacup to find out
what your fortune is. Is there a young lady
that can truthfully say that she has learned
that which made her feel happier, and brought
that spirit of peace, joy and comfort which the
Holy Spirit brings? I scarcely think that
young ladies who pray and attend their meet
ings will think of visiting fortune tellers, for
the Comforter has been bestowed upon all those
who have been baptized into the Church, and
its office work is to bring things past to our re-
membrance and teach us of things to come,
and take of the things of the Father and show
them unto us; we have prophets to guide and
direct us and warn us of danger, and by means
of prayer and a godly life there is an open
channel of communication between us and our
Father in Heaven; He can always communi-
cate to us anything that it is important for us 
to know, and it is highly important for us to
keep this channel open and free, that the still
small voice may always find a ready response
in our hearts, and live so that we may be able
to distinguish it from the promptings of the ad-
versary. Whatever God withholds from us,
after praying to him for knowledge concerning
the future, we may be quite sure is not intend-
ed for us to know, and if He will not reveal
the future to us we had better be without the
knowledge; many times if we knew the trials
which await us we would not be so well pre-
pared to pass through them as we are when
kept in ignorance of them until they come. At
all events God's way is the best way, and we
would lessen our troubles by learning it early.
Some one may ask, Did you never have your
fortune told? Oh, yes, I have tried both ways
and know whereof I write, and I would advise
all to cultivate the Holy Spirit, and it will
guide them into all truth, and reveal to them
those things that are proper for them to know.
	October, 1883.	RUTH.


OBJECT IN LIFE.

	I think we should all examine our hearts,
and seek to purify ourselves. We certainly
all have some object in life, and should ask
ourselves seriously what that object is, and


what the result of it might be. I saw an ac-
count of some leading American women going
to start a reform in dress, instead of following
after the harlots and disreputable women of
Paris. I think it is time every honest hearted
woman threw off the shackles which makes
slaves, by trying to imitate those whose only
aim is to lead to destruction and ruin.
	It is more than eight years since we made
the resolution to try and create our own fash-
ions, such as would be conducive to health and
comfort. Do we all think of this when we go
to make a dress? I hope so, and I think we
should guard against too much adornment, for
it shows that we worship the god of the world
instead of our Father in Heaven, for He has
said, "Let your garments be plain, and the
beauty thereof the workmanship of your own
hands." I think, sometimes, there will be a
great change before we as a people carry out
this principle, for imported things can be got
cheaper than they can be manufactured here,
but we all know home made articles are much
better. Then let us begin to encourage home
talent; there are many things that could be
made here, neckties and collars, hoods, jackets
stockings and other little things could be net-
ted, crocheted and knit. I do not mean for
every mother to do her own if she can't con-
veniently, but if these things were more en-
couraged there is plenty of ingenuity to make
them. And would it not be much better for
many of the young to learn to create some-
thing instead of using so much time in making
dresses for show? When Babylon falls we
will certainly have to make them or go without.
So let our object in life be to be honest, iudus-
trious, and do all the good we can, that in the
end we may feel that our days have been well
spent.	Your sister in the Gospel,
			MARY J. MORRISON.
	Manuscript Paper, "Young Ladies Herald of
Union." Spanish Fork, Oct. 16, 1883.


THE LAST CHAPTER OF SCENES IN
NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	At early twilight on the 3rd of February a
messenger was sent by my father, informing
H. K. Whitney and myself that this day fin-
ished their work in the Temple, and that we
were to present ourselves there that evening.
The weather being fine we preferred to walk;
and as we passed through the little graveyard
at the foot of the hill a solemn covenant we
entered into—to cling to each other through
time and, if permitted, throughout all eternity,
and this vow was solemnized at the holy altar.
Though gay and highminded in many other
things we reverenced the principles taught us
by our parents and held them sacred, also the
covenants which we had previously made in
that house, so much so that we would as soon
have thought of committing suicide as to be-
tray them; for in doing either we would have
forfeited every right or claim to our eternal sal-
vation.
	On the morning of the 4th the sun shone
brightly into the east windows of the Temple,
where a new scene was being enacted. A num-
ber of persons were busily engaged removing
articles of furniture, stoves, carpets and pic-
tures, etc., etc. President B. Young, and Bp.
N. K. Whitney were invited with members of


[Column 1]

their families and a few of our most intimate
friends to attend an infare given at my father's
house in honor of our marriage—reception is
the more modern name, and perhaps the
most proper as things are carried out in these
days. At the wedding reception, which I have
here casually mentioned, was our friend Sister
Emmie, now Mrs. E. B. Wells, Editor of the
EXPONENT. That evening was the first time
she had ever danced, as she had been brought
up to consider dancing very improper and wick-
ed. We had no glittering surrroundings, nor
had we any use for rich and costly gifts, but
we had what is better, warm and loving hearts,
that were knitted together by past scenes of
sorrow and suffering. It was the pure and
genuine friendship that could neither be
bought nor sold. The lively airs played on
the violin and flute and the bass viol drove
dull care away, and all joined in the merry dance
till the clock struck twelve, when the music
ceased and the blessings of God were invoked
upon us and all of His people, of whatever na-
tion they might be.
	When I was married father told me to never
drop my Kimball name, and for years I kept it
up, but it made my name so lengthy that I
have left it out, only when requested to add it,
but I love the name, and I am oftener addres-
sed by it than any other; I suppose it is owing
to the striking resemblance between us.
	Grandfather Whitney was in Nauvoo at the
time. He had come from Kirtland to receive
the holy ordinances in the Temple, and his
last words to me were, "I shall try and secure
the old homestead, in Kirtland, for you and
Horace; I want you to come and live there by
us." His wife was in Kirtland, and he was tak-
en sick on his way back and died in a day or
two after; and she survived him but a short
time. Her maiden name was Kimball, and her
son, Bishop Whitney, thought so much of her
that he adopted it as a middle name to his
four eldest sons. After he and my father be-
came acquainted in Kirtland they traced rela-
tionship. Both were natives of Vermont, and
the Prophet Joseph afterwards told them that
they were descendants from one and the same
branch of the Priesthood.
	Bishop Whitney said that his father was a 
natural prophet, and he put a great deal of
confidence in his words. He said to Mother
Whitney before leaving Nauvoo for Kirtland:
"I can only see N. K. till he gets to the moun-
tains, but you, Ann, will live a great many
years."
	This was a very hard thing for them to be-
lieve as she had always been a delicate woman
and was subject to habitual spells of sick head
ache, when Bishop Whitney would nurse her,
and he always treated her with the tenderest
care, and had never placed any hardships or
responsibilities upon her. But when on the
23rd of September, 1850, a little over three
years after the arrival of the pioneers Bishop
Whitney took sick and died, leaving his deli-
cate wife to survive him for many years, the
beginning of the prophecies' fulfillment was
made manifest.
	My father had a number of fine boxes made
to order; one he gave to me, and the morning
after I was married he said, "Now, Helen, go to 
and pack up your things." My wardrobe was
not very extensive, but what I had was good,
and I thought they were all that I would get
unless we manufactured the goods ourselvse,
and that would be a long time hence. I had a 
very long riding habit of dark green merino,
which father had brought me from the east; I
had worn it but a few times when we learned
that we were to leave for Mexico. So I put a
deep tuck in the center of the skirt, which was
then all the style, and wore it through the
winter, and it was still a good dress, being a 
strong material. That with a warm hood, muff
and boa made up my travelling suit. Few, I

[Column 2]

suppose, will understand the meaning of josie.
It was made the same as are Mother Hub-
bard dresses, only pleated in folds instead of
gathered, with a cape reaching nearly to the
belt with batting laid between the outside and
lining; these were considered very pretty, and
they were also very comfortable.
	I had some peculiar notions and ideas at
that time concerning our future destiny, and
the following were some of my reflections while
busily engaged packing and tucking away this,
that and the other—boxes containing letters,
notes and cards and many little gifts and tokens
of remembrance, as relics of my infantile and
childhood days, which would have been of lit-
tle value to anyone else, but were all of worth
to me: I thought, woman like, I will pack
away all my little ribbons, collors and laces,
ect., for we are going where we cannot purchase 
them. We are going out from the world to
live beyond the Rocky Mountains where none
others will wish to go, and we are never again
to mingle with Babylon, but remain a distinct
and separate people, where all of our clothing
will be manufactured, and all will be on an
equality.
	There will be neither rich nor poor among us,
and we will have none but the honest and vir-
tuous, and there will be no more snares and
allurements to tempt and lead the youth
wrong. Thus I meditated, but, alas, we found
too soon that "Satan came also." And I have
seen more of Babylon on this side of the 
mountains than I had ever dreamed of or
thought it possible to be in existence. But
time and experience has taught us that these
things were all necessary to prove us, whether
or no we will cleave to the Lord, or to the
Mammon of unrighteousness.
	Being short of wagons and teams, in order
to lighten the load we carried our change of
apparel in bags made convenient for that pur-
pose. We were assisted in onr sewing by two
or more of my father's wives, as there were
clothes to make for the boys and a great deal
to do and a short time to do it in. Harriet San-
ders Kimball came to live with us about a 
week previous to our starting. My mother
first met her at Uncle Joseph Young's, and it
was by much interceding with Sister Young
that she consented to part with her, she being
not only a superior cook, but an excellent
nurse, which Sister Young could appreciate,
being then in feeble health from the hardships
and privations that she had been obliged to en-
dure, like hundreds of others who, like her,
had been driven from State to State, and she
was among those who witnessed the awful
slaughter at Haun's Mill, Missouri.
	My mother's health was then feeble, and
she had three little boys with the whooping
cough—the babe was thirteen months old, who, 
as soon as he commenced coughing, would lose
his breath, and we would have to toss him out
into the cold air, which seemed the only thing
to bring him to. Bishop Whitney's family,
and a great many more were in a similar or
even worse condition. But when they heard
the cry, "To your tents, O Israel!" they left
their comfortable homes and the graves of their
loved ones and followed the voice of the one
whom they knew the Lord had chosen to lead
His people.
	I see by my husband's journal that it was
Monday the 16th that "Heber C. Kimball and
family left their home and repaired to the en-
campment on Sugar Creek," and that Presi-
dent Young had gone the day before. The
wagons father had sent ahead as fast as they
were loaded, and he with mother and family
were invited to stop and take dinner with Hi-
ram Kimball and wife, our respected sister,
Sarah M. Kimball. The day was pleasant but 
the weather freezing. My husband returned
and came over to camp next day.
	The following extracts are from Sister Jane

[Column 3]

B. Taylor's journal: "Monday, February 16th.
I left the city of Joseph and crossed the Missi-
sippi river, accompanied by my dear brother
Richard (Ballantyne), Brother William Tay-
lor and Joseph Kaighn. 	*	*	Being
very cold, after crossing the river we stopped
and took the use of a fire that had been built
and made ourselves a cup of coffee. And as
we had two cows along we had no lack of
milk.	*	*	While thus engaged He-
ber C. Kimball came across and expressed his
satisfaction in seeing me on my way to Califor-
nia. Having got ourselves warmed with our
hot coffee, William and I mounted the wagon
*	*	*	and started a little after sun-
down. Helen Kimball, daughter of H. C. 
Kimball, rode along side of our wagon until
she became so cold that she could not sit on
her pony. She stopt and we gave her some
wine, and Brother Dickson kindled a fire, and
we sat around and warmed ourselves. We
reached the camp at Sugar Creek about seven
o'clock." This, like a thousand other inci-
dents, had passed from my memory till Sister
Taylor reminded me.
	The pony that I rode belonged to my brother
Heber. It was first purchased for William
from a lady in Illinois, who had named it
"Happy go lucky," but William having grown
too large and heavy for it gave it to Heber. It
was a gentle little animal and stood about
three feet and a half high. Many a happy go
lucky ride I had taken over the prairies, and
when it paced or galloped it was as easy as a 
cradle. At Sugar Creek father's men had
pitched a tent and put up a sheet iron stove at
one end, and great log fires were burning all
through the camp. When we had warmed
ourselves we made our beds upon the ground
and laid down with grateful hearts for so com-
fortable a shelter, and slept soundly till morn-
ing. The snow was deep so that paths had to
be made with spades between the wagons and
tents. Camping out increased our appetites so
that our picnic was very nearly consumed be-
fore the camp was ready to leave Sugar Creek.
We had cooked up a great amount of provis-
ions, consisting of roasted chicken, beef, boiled
hams, pork and beans, bread, rusks and many
other eatables, beside sea biscuits and crackers,
which we could eat and eat and still be hun-
gry. I remember the day that Brigham 
Young called the camp together for the pur-
pose of organization. All the men came to-
gether at the sound of his voice as he stood up
in a wagon and cried, "Attention, the whole
camp of Israel."
	The same day, afternoon, he, with my father,
returned to Nauvoo to assist Brother Joseph
Kingsbury to procure teams. My husband re-
turned the same day to help his father. On
the 19th it began storming, and it was dismal
enough to give even a saint the blues.
	The next day Sarah Lawrence Kimball and
myself went back to Nauvoo where we re-
mained a week, she with her sister, Mariah
Babbit, and I with my husband's family.
	Sunday, 22nd, my father and President
Young returned to camp. The multitude of
teams crossing on the ice caused it to crack
and give way under them, and when we came
there to recross the river there was a slow
drizzling rain, and the ice was floating down
so that we had to remain till towards night,
and then we had some difficulty in getting
across in a skiff. But in a few days the wea-
ther turned so cold that the river froze over in
one night, and by the 28th the church teams
were able to drive over in safety.
	To be Continued.


82	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


The women of Ohio were out in full force
on election day. They served ballots and hot
coffee with equal vigor.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 83


HOW SWEET AND PEACEFUL IS
THE TOMB!

	"Pale death, with impartial step, knocks at the hut
of the poor and the palace of kings. They are all com-
pelled to take the same road: from the urn of death
shaken for all, sooner or later the lot must come
forth."—HORACE

How sweet and peaceful is the tomb!
	How calm and tranquil there!
As naked came we from the tomb,
	So naked we repair!
There all life's tumults sink in peace,
	Fade all earth's gilded joys;
The wicked from all troubling cease,—
	Their rage no more annoys.

There ev'ry weary pilgrim rests,
	There sleep the great and small;
There lay the tyrants and oppressed,—
	Death's sleep reigns o'er
There servant, master, foe and friend,
	Partake the same repose;
And there, in peace, the ashes blend
	Of those who once were foes

There lays the sinner steeped in vice,
	Hands red with human gore,
Who learned by crime's most foul device
	All virtue to abhor.
And there in peaceful, tranquil sleep,
	The holy saint does rest,—
Bright angels round him vigils keep,
	To make his slumber blest.

There lays the babe in swaddling clothes—
	No stain of guilt its share—
Calm and at peace, in death's repose
	It slumbers free from care.
The parents, too, lay 'side its form,—
	Their battle fought and won,—
They've stood the blast of life's rough storm:
	Now shines eternal sun!

The haughty voice, the despot's tone,
	The persecutor's sneer,
All lay there hushed, still as a stone,
	Silenced from their career.
The slave aside the tyrant sleeps,
	The young rests with the old;
No more the woeful widow weeps,—
	Death comfort does unfold.

The child, the boy, the parent stern,
	The tot'ring, feeble sire,
All to the grave their steps must turn
	When God their souls require;
Then, death, where is thy sting?
	O grave, thy victory?
Show me, when life its close shall bring,
	Thy painful jubilee!
						JAMES H. WALLIS.

Salt Lake City, October 8th, 1883.


[Column 1]
MARTIN TUPPER.

HANNAH T. KING.

	Those readers who have delved into Tup-
per's "Proverbial Philosophy" with the intense
and edifyiug delight that I have done, also
some of his poems, embodying some of the
highest and holiest affections and aspirations
of human nature, will not think it waste time
to spend a few moments with me in viewing
him as he stands to-day before the Literati of
England. This is an age of testimonials, and
the friends of Mr. Tupper are agitating a tes-
timonial to him while he is living to enjoy it.
This is sensible, and the very best kind of
testimonial. Like the generality of the poets,
Tupper is poor, and is seventy three years of
age; he resides at Norwood, a suburb south of
London, he has also a country house at Al-
bury. At Norwood he stores relics of his an-
cestors, who fought with Cromwell and his
"Ironsides" The name was formerly Von
Topphers, they were lords in their native coun-
try, but were driven out by the religious per-
secutions of the Spaniards; they then settled
in Guernsey, and have there been among the

[Column 2]
chief families for over 300 years. Sir Charles
Tupper, who recently arrived in London as
commissioner for Canada, is his cousin; Tup-
per was originally intended for the Bar, but
an impediment in his speech interfered, and
refering to this he said, "God intended to keep
me silent and thoughtful, and to do work
which I should not have done had I proceeded
with law, or into the church." His account of
the Proverbial Philosophy is that when about
eighteen he was engaged to be married, and he
wished to give his intended wife instructions
of "love and marriage"—he did not wish to
do it in prose or verse, and therefore he adop-
ted the style of the proverbs of Solomon, hence
the four parts—love, marriage, education and
friendship were completed at the afore-named
early age, but they were not published until
1837.
	When I read his beautiful "Family picture"
I can imagine that he carried out the beauti-
ful code he so religiously portrayed in his
"Philosophy." I here extract a few lines from
a sonnet entitled, "Guernsey."

Guernsey! for nearly thrice one hundred years
Home of my fathers! refuge from our fears,
And haven to their hope—when long of yore
Fleeing Imperial Charles and bloody Rome,
Protestant martyrs, to thy sea-girt shore
They came to seek a temple and a home,
And found her generous—I, their son, would pour
My heart full—all praise and thanks to thee,
Island of welcomes!—friendly—frank and free!

	The friends of the poet now in his seventy-
third year have organized themselves into a
committee, and publicly reqnest the readers
and admirers of the works of this author to
show their esteem by subscribing to a fund for
the benefit of his old age. Few, if any books
have been more read in modern times than the
"Proverbial Philosophy;"—"the Pilgrim's Pro-
gress" has scarcely been more widely read;
there is something in his writings that finds an
echo in all who read them; they are full of
strong practical religious sentiment. In Amer-
ica especially the book has enjoyed an im-
mense circulation. Many would suppose in
consequence of this universal circulation of
his works that he ought to be a rich man—if
his remuneration for his writings bore a pro-
portion to their sale, he wonld be living in
comfort, if not luxury—but such is not the
case, and hence his friends are seeking sub-
scriptions to a fund with which they purpose
to make a provision for his declining years.
Few successful writers have been so little able
to reap pecuniary advantages as Mr. Tupper—
misfortune has attended almost his life; one
publisher failed with an account on his books
of fifteen years standing; another firm allows
him only one penny per copy for a cheap is-
sue; while a third house is said to be selling an
illustrated and high-priced edition for which
the author has been paid nothing for three
years. The multitude of copies "pirated" by
numerous publishers all over America have
been of no benefit at all beyond fame and
good doing to this esteemed and excellent au-
thor, therefore, his friends hope and expect
that the enlightened and literary people of A-
merica will avail themselves of the present op-
portunity of recognizing by a liberal subscrip-
tion the ill-rewarded merits of one who has
been fifty years before the reading world, and
has done good to tens of thousands who now
have an opportunity of giving him a grateful
return and acknowledgement for the good they
have received, and the rich enjoyment with
which they have been entertained. There are
already 200 subscribers in the first list, and a
second is shortly to be published. Tupper's
admirers are legion, and now is the time to
make palpable their appreciation of him. The
working brain ought certainly to receive re-
muneration equally with the physical labor—
and in many noble instances it is rewarded as

[Column 3]
it deserves to be. The Laureate of England
has an annuity from the crown—and it is
many years ago that Queen Victoria ordered
a life annuity to be settled on Eliza Cook,
which, of course, she has ever since enjoyed.
	Another appeal is about to be made to the
English public on behalf of one of the hard-
est workers in literature, Dr. Charles Mac-
kay. A petition to Mr. Gladstone, praying
that the pension allowed to Dr. Mackay from
the civil list may be increased, has been
signed by Mr. Tennyson, Mr. Browning, Lord
Lytton, Lord Reay, Mr. Irving, Mr Sala, Mr.
Alfred Austin and other admirers of Dr.
Mackay's lyrical gifts, and his earnest labors
for many years in the cause of national educa-
tion.
	All this shows rich appreciation of the gifts
of God, for He is the Giver, and Bestower,
why should the gold and silver coffers be full
and "running over" and yet the workers and
the laborers suffer for the comforts of life,
while the drones and the butterflies and things
of that genus are often surfeited even to death
with the sweets and the lnxuries in which they
revel-and which as a maelstrom very often en-
gulfs them. All honor to the noble committee
who have opened up this fund for a worthy
writer, who as far as he knows it has preached
the Gospel in his writings and on such the
smile of Heaven beams for ever. Those who
have not read Tupper's works have a grand
treat in store for them. I have possessed them
for thirty years, and have read and reread them
and every time I see new beauties in them; as
I said, the Gospel spirit breathes through
every part of them, there are copious notes
to the Philosophy that are very instructive,
and contain much information; the "thou-
sand lines" that follow contain food for both
heart and brain; it is a book that should
be found in every library, and should be
often taken up as a book to refresh and
invigorate the soul. Joseph Smith said,
"Get good out of all good books," and this is
one he would have loved and endorsed. The
mind, to be properly cultivated, requires va-
riety, both in style and subject; in these last
days when time is so precious no trash should
ever be taken up or allowed on any bookshelf,
for the human mind quickly receives a taint,
or may be warped, never again to become
erect.


BENEFIT OF LAUGHTER.—Probably there
is not the remotest corner or little inlet of the
minute blood veseels (life vessels) of the body
that does not feel some wavelet from that great
convulsion (hearty laughter) shaking the cen-
tral man. The blood moves more lively—pro-
bably its chemical, electric, or vital condition
is distinctly modified—it conveys a different
impression to all the organs of the body as it
visits them on that particular mystic journey,
when the man is laughing, from what it does
at other times. And so, we doubt not, a good
laugh may lengthen a man's life, conveying a
distinct stimulus to the vital forces. And the
time may come when physicians, attending
more closely than at present, unfortunately,
they are apt to do, to the innumerable subtile
influences which the soul exerts on its tene-
ment of clay, shall prescribe to torpid patients,
so many "peals of laughter, to be undergone at
such and such a time," just as they do now
that far more objectionable prescription, a pill
or an electric or galvanic shock; and shall
study the best and most effective methods of
producing the required effect in each patient.
—Good Health.


There is, no knowledge of God where love
does not flourish.—Calvin.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	*	*	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, NOVEMBER 1, 1883.


[Column 1]﻿

BISHOP EDWARD HUNTER.

	This excellent and distinguished man depart-
ed this life on Tuesday evening, October 16,
1883, at his home in the 17th Ward, Salt Lake
City. He was perhaps quite as well known as
any man in the Church, occupying, too, a very
high position, which he was eminently qualified
to fill. Bishop Hunter was a man that every-
body recognized as possessing superior qualities
of head and heart. It was impossible even to
see him without recognizing the fact. The
writer well remembers when she first met him in
Nauvoo. At that time he was in the very zenith
of his manhood, the trusted friend of the proph-
et of God. He was what the world terms a man
of presence. His unflinching integrity, his ad-
herence to principle, his zeal for the right, gave
to his manly character still greater prestige.
He was the friend of the poor and unfortunate,
and these attributes eminently qualified him for
the office of Bishop. He was true as steel to the
Gospel and its interests, and all he possessed he
was ever ready to lay upon the altar for the up-
building of the Kingdom of God upon the earth.
He gave generously hundreds and thousands of
dollars, at different times, to assist in rolling on
the good work, not grudgingly, but with infinite
pleasure. He was one of nature's noblemen,
physically and mentally endowed with those
magnificient capabilities that mark the man of
destiny. He lived to a good old age, beloved,
honored and respected, and was indeed one
of the few who make no enemies. It might
well be said of him, he has gone as a shock of
corn fully ripe. He has left several sons and
daughters, and his illustrious example is worthy
to be followed by them. His widow must in-
deed be lonely, for to the aged as well as to the
young, death is always an unwelcome visitor,
and when he takes those who are nearest and
dearest, we cannot but mourn even though we
know they were fully prepared and willing
to go.
	Bishop Hunter was born in Newtown, Delaware
Co., Pennsylvania, June 22d, 1793. His parents
were Edward and Hannah Hunter. The ances-
tors of Bishop Hunter were of noble blood, and
the ancestral halls in England are still occupied
by descendants of the same line from which the
Bishop came. Br. Hunter went to Nauvoo soon
after the Saints gathered there from Missouri,
and was afterwards made Bishop of the Fifth
Ward of Nauvoo, ordained under the hands of
Presidents Brigham Young and Heber C. Kim-
ball and Newel K. Whitney.
	Bishop Hunter came to the valley in the first
company of families that left Winter Quarters
for the valley, starting after the pioneers, arriv-
ing here early enough to put in a crop, and in
the settlement of the city located in the Thir-

[Column 2]

teenth Ward, of which he was made Bishop,
and held that position until after the death of
Presiding Bishop, Newel K. Whitney. He was
appointed to succeed Bishop Whitney in that
office at the April Conference, 1851, and was al-
so appointed Assistant Trustee in Trust for the
Church. He received his ordination under the
hands of Presidents Heber C. Kimball and Wil-
lard Richards, and he chose at that time, as his
Counselors, Brigham Young and Heber C. Kim-
ball.
	Bishop Hunter went back to Winter Quarters
in 1849, to assist the emigration for that season,
and when he returned home he learned of the
death of Bishop Whitney, which had occurred a
short time previous. He had the greatest res-
pect and admiration for the Bishop, and he has
often expressed himself to the writer that his
impression on hearing that the Bishop was
dead was that he would be "called to fill his
friend's place." And it proved true.
	Bishop Hunter assisted in laying the north-
west corner-stone of the Temple in this city,
April 6th, 1853, and after the ceremony delivered
the oration on that occasion.
	There are many good things that might be
said of him, but his works praise him, his child-
ren rise up and call him blessed, and Saints
everywhere honor his memory and treasure his
sayings in their hearts.
	His first wife who had received the Gospel in
Pennsylvania and accompanied him to Nau-
voo, and from there to Winter Quarters, and
afterwards to the valley, who had stood by
him in all his travels and labors, died in the
valley in 1855.
	The funeral of Bishop Hunter was held in
the Assembly Hall in this city on the 19th
of October, at which time the house was
crowded. The body of the Bishop lay in state
in the casket from 12 a.m. until 2 p.m., that
all who wished might have the opportunity of
viewing the honored dead. The coffin was
literally covered with the choicest flowers,
beautifully arranged and was placed on the
Bishop's stand. The family and relatives were
seated immediately in front; in the middle of
the Hall, and at the left of the casket were
the pall bearers. On the stand were the lead-
ing men of the Church, and of this Stake of
Zion, and the services were conducted by
President John Taylor. After singing by the
choir Apostle Erastus Snow offered prayer and
the choir sang. The speakers were President
Taylor and Pres. Smith, Apostles W. Woodruff,
E. Snow and F. D. Richards. Each of these
men paid a glowing tribute to his memory and
exhorted the living to be obedient to the com-
mandments of God.


[Column 1]

KATE FIELD.

	Miss Kate Field of New York, the celebrated
"artiste and litterateur," is spending a few days,
here and is greatly interested in seeing for herself
this remarkable valley and the peculiar people,
everywhere spoken of on account of their dis-
tinctive religious views.
	Miss Field is widely and favorably known in
many countries for her literary culture and abil-
ity, her popularity as a writer, and as an author
of books and of a play which she brought out
in London.
	She gave a lecture in the Congregational
Church in this city, Tuesday evening, the 23 ult.,
to a full house and an admiring and appreciative
audience, though small because of the size of
the building. Her subject was, "An evening
with Charles Dickens." She handled the theme
in a most pleasing and happy manner. Her
voice is wonderfully clear and musical, yet capa-
ble of such variety of intonation as to adapt

[Column 2]

itself to every expression of her subject, whether
grave or gay, full or deep, low and sweet, or for-
cible and indifferent. This popular lady is
graceful and easy in manner, perfectly artistic
in costume, self possessed and master of the
situation, she made a most attractive picture on
the platform.
	The Dickens' lecture was so much in the style
of elegant conversation that one could almost
imagine himself taking part in it, and that
Dickens himself was present. It was so new, so
different from the generality of lectures and the
speaker so superior to the ordinary lecturer, that
it was more like a study of Dickens with an able,
efficient and beautiful advocate, than it was like
a lecture. She held Dickens up as a model, and
we shall not differ from her; besides, it is good
to have friends who tell the world the best side
of one's nature, if even after one's demise.
	Miss Field evidently loves her subject with
the ardent enthusiasm of a warm and generous
nature, and enters into it heart and soul, deter-
mined to persuade her audience to feel as she
does. She looks all that she expresses in words.
Her language is choice and elegant, and her en-
unciation distinct and pleasant. A woman of
culture and excessively facinating, yet withal
so genuine and sincere that she wins the admir-
ation and respect of all who come within the
sound of her voice. She makes those who al-
ready admired Dickens' talent still more in love
with him as a writer, and to the indifferent
reader she must certainly awaken a positive de-
sire to read and study his works more thorough-
ly because of her wonderful genius in describing
the humanity of the author. Altogether her
lecture was a rich treat, full of suggestions to
the student of human nature, and overflowing
with wit and humor to a most extraordinary de-
gree. Those who have read Dickens will,
after hearing Miss Field, take up his books with
fresh zest, and peruse them thoughtfully as one
who has an interpreter reviews that which was
to him before unintelligible. Miss Field has been
rightfully designated Dickens "most sympathet-
ic and intelligent interpreter."
	We trust she will be persuaded to give her
"Musical Monologue" in the Salt Lake Theatre,
as it is the one place best suited to a woman of
such celebrity. All such women are philanthrop-
ists in the most complete sense of the word,
for they give to humanity that which is better
than food or raiment, enlightenment of the un-
derstanding.
	Miss Field, the critic, the author and the ar-
tiste, with all her culture and attainments is as
simple and unaffected as a child; through this
her true nobility is so apparent as to entitle her
to the unbounded regard and esteem of those
who have the pleasure of meeting her, and
more especially when they have heard her
speak in public. Mingling with the world of
fashion and frivolity she seems to have escaped
unscathed. Her freshness and piquancy are
quite remarkable, and add a fine luster to the
polish of a woman of the world.


THE PICTURE AND BOOK.

	The Picture, "Representative Women of
Deseret," and the accompanying book are now
well underway. The proof of the engraving
has been received, but the engravers not being
acquainted with their subject, and the work
having of necessity to be done so far away—
there have been mistakes made which must be
corrected, and it will necessitate some delay.
The title page of the book is nicely arranged
typographically and reads as follows: Representa-
tive Women of Deseret, a book of biographical
sketches, to accompany the picture having the
same title. Compiled and written by August


Joyce Crocheron, author of "Wild Flowers of
Deseret," and dedicated to the originals of this
Picture and Book, their co-laborers in the
Church, and every true heart that will receive
their testimonies." The book is being published
here by J. C. Graham & Co. The following
verse used for the title page is in Mrs. Crocher-
on's original style, and is not only very sweet
and touching, but very appropriate:
	"O, spirits dear! ye light the path]
		That else were lone and dim;
	I follow where your sainted feet
		Lead onward up to Him,
	And hear above life's discords still,—
		Your heav'n inspired hymn."
	The originator and author of this unique work,
the drawing and designing all done by her own
taste and ingenuity certainly will do herself
great credit. The beautiful illustrations of the Lat-
ter-day Saints woman's organizations their sym-
bols and mottoes given in such a delicate fash-
ion as to show up the harmony of all, is indeed
quite a study. We cannot doubt that the work
will give satisfaction, and it is something so en-
tirely different to anything before designed that
it will be quite a novelty and surprise. Its his-
torical value will be an honor to the lady who
had the tact and talent, the energy and perse-
verance to understake the responsibility without
money, trusting to the generous public, and to
the patronage of her friends and admirers. And
we must not forget to add her faith in God to
bestow His blessing upon her humble efforts.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WE take pleasure in hastening to correct a
slight mistake in our last issue, where we
made it appear as if Mrs. Barney had given
an original lecture to the Y. L. M. I. Associa-
tion of the 8th Ward. The truth is she sim-
ply read through courtesy, Dr. Pratt's lecture,
which an imperative professional call intercept-
ed Dr. Pratt's presenting herself.
	MISS KATE FIELD will give her Musical mon-
ologue in the Salt Lake Theatre, Monday even-
ing, November 5. Those who wish to have a 
musical treat should be sure and attend. Lon-
don and American papers speak very highly of
her remarkable talent for a public entertainment,
and knowing a little of the lady's versatility of
talent we cannot help thinking her appearence
at the theatre will be a success professionally
and we hope it will be financially.


[Column 1]

VISIT AND REFLECTIONS.

	It would be a pleasure could we give a sketch
of our trip down through Utah Stake with Sis-
ter E. S. Taylor, and afterwards to Nephi with
Sister E. B. Wells; but there were so many
pleasing incidents attending our journeyings
and the interesting Conferences, with the greet-
ing of old friends and making new ones, etc.,
that it would be useless for one to begin as it
would take up too much space. But I can testi-
fy that we found them enjoying a kind spirit
and inspired by the same desire to become one
in spirit and in truth, which we met in every
settlement. I had never before visited farther
than Springville and I confess that I was sur-
prised, more especially to see what a multitude
of intelligent and neatly dressed children, with
such bright, happy and pretty faces that are
growing up in the midst of this people. The ex-
ercises of the Primaries were varied and inter-
esting, and their singing and all was very
charming. The Relief Societies and young peo-
ples Associations, judging from the reports that
were read and the full houses, with the good
order and attention paid to the speakers, were

[Column 2]

interested, and were trying to live up to th
principles of the Gospel, and assist in this great
work of improvement. It is very gratifying to
see what has been accomplished since these as-
sociations were instituted, and I thought, like
the Queen of Sheba, that the half had not been
told us. "A tree is known by its fruits," and 
from all that we saw I should judge that our so-
cieties are working in the right direction. And
these things give the lie to the abominable tales
told about the ignorance, vice and degredation
among the "Mormons," which, though we know
are instigated by pure jealousy, the world are
more than willing to swallow. There are those,
it is true, who are a disgrace, and others that are
drones in the hive. The disaflected ones, who
are always grumbling, are really to be pitied,
for they are standing in their own light. But we
need not wonder that Satan is up in arms and
making good use of the little time that is left
him, for Zion is growing in wisdom and power,
and swiftly spreading over this land of promise.
If God had not been on our side our institutions
would long since have died a natural death, and
Mormonism would not now be in existence.
But the united prayers that have been continu-
ally offered up in behalf of the Latter-day Saints
have been answered, and we have been protect-
ed continually from the hands of our enemies,
or their threats might easily have been carried
into effect.
	"But," the Rev. Dr. Talmage says, "go it
must, or the honor and virtue and life of this
nation will go. What headway can the Church
of God and reformatory institutions make as
long as this organized libertinism and enthroned
indecency are allowed to remain? The men ca-
pable of throttling this evil have not yet come
to the front. I wonder from what state they
will come, and in which Congress they will ap
pear, and what will be the mode of their attack.
Eight hundred captives of Mormondom, under
the care of their captors, allowed on the Sab-
bath day to pass through New York is a mon-
strosity, and of all the calamities of the week is
the most calamitous." O, ye whited sepulchers,
why, all the sins and iniquities that can
be scraped up and gathered from every "Mor-
mon" settlement could not be compared with
the description given by this same Rev. in one
of his best sermons upon the condition of society
where he thrives, and many others of the rich
and pampered Pharisees, who preach only for
hire and divine for money, but utterly refuse to
give the "Mormons" any quarter. We can read
daily of their wickedness and depravity, and
here is one little item published at Detroit,
August 1st; 1883. "At Bay City, this morning,
the bodies of five dead infants were found in a
vault in the rear of Mc Cormick Block." These
are trifling things, which are thought little or
nothing of, and are of every day occurence in
their boasted Christain circles. But such things
are horrifying to Latter-day Saints, who believe
in obeying all the commands of the Almighty,
and we are audacious enough to practice the an-
cient order of the Patriarchs. And we know
that hell is the portion of those who take what
they cannot give, the life of a human being, ex-
cept in self defence. The Rev. Talmage pro-
poses a different mode from Christ's teachings
in the New Testament, that would have told
them of Him who came to seek and save that
which was lost. It is true that a few batteries
opened on the hills around Salt Lake City might
once have put a quietus on the "Mormons," had
they not been held back by a higher power who
declared, "Thus far shalt thou go and no far-
ther.' It would be well for such as him to stop
before they arrive at "the day of judgment,"
and consider well their steps, that they pass not
false judgment, for they will have to meet it in

[Column 3]

that day when all must stand before the Bar of
God.
	We have had abundant cause to fear and
shun the smiling hypocrites who have lain wait
to ensnare our youth, and would glory in the
overthrow of our households. How they have
rejoiced and gloated over the ruin of certain ones
who have disobeyed the teachings and counsel re-
ceived from their parents and friends, and been
captivated by the charms and deceitful flattery
of their serpent-like tongues, who will exult and
laugh over the misery and desolation which they
have helped to accomplish, and then undertake
to palm their unholy deeds upon the practice
of the plural order of marriage, as in the case of
young Rich and Smith, but in so doing their
own ignorance and malice is made manifest--
neither of them having been born of what they
term polygamous mothers. They have openly
and insultingly told our youth to rebel against
our teachings as well as every righteous princi-
ple contained in the Gospel of Christ, which
every true Saint has striven so long and dili-
gently to instill into the hearts of their offspring
—encouraging our sons to get drunk, to frequent
gambling cells and houses of ill fame, or any-
thing to break us up, no matter how bad they
become so Mormonism is destroyed. Such will
be made answerable for the greatest sins of our
youth which are laying at the doors of these rep-
tiles in human shape. And they will yet have
to taste more of the bitter dregs of sorrow and
anguish than is now rending the hearts-strings
of those who have loved and cherished these
sons, who, thanks to the abandoned wretches
that have crept into our midst, have become fit
subjects for the criminals cell, God grant that
their example may serve as a deep and lasting
lesson to others who may incline to be wayward
and disobedient, and understand distinctly that
these are some of the choice fruits of Christian
civilizaiton. Yes, and they intend, if possible,
to make our peaceful and orderly cities the same
as their own, which are filled full of vileness
and corruption.
	And now let me say a few words to my young
friends and sisters, for I am interested in their
welfare and wish to see them all made happy.
Had we always lived as we should do could our
enemies have gained so strong a foothold as they
have in our midst? I think not. Had we strict-
ly kept the laws of God and of health, which be-
long to those laws, the destroyer could not have
obtained such a hold upon us, effecting our
bodies and our spirits, taking from us so many of
our loved ones, the little innocents that so twine
themselves around our tenderest heart-strings,
leaving so many stricken and heart broken pa-
rents and friends, who will mourn over their un-
timely death, and their own, seemingly, unjust
and needless bereavements, and often-times
murmur and blame Providence for the same.
But were we willing to search into our own
hearts and cross-question ourselves we might
then learn the true cause. We have all fallen,
and therefore are born and begotten in sin, and
we naturally cleave to the world and the things
of the world, and those who are not very careful
before they are aware of it will have drifted away
into darkness and unbelief, and apostacy is the
sure result. We have witnessed these things
from the very beginning, and know that it
would be far better if we would keep humble,
and always listen to the teachings and admoni-
tions of those whom the Lord appoints and
places as shepherds to guard His fold. We
should not slumber, but be wide awake to the
times and the scenes which are right at our
doors. Our time here is very short and precious,
and should be well spent. The reading of fic-
tion is a loss of time, for in that we can gain no
knowledge nor intelligence pertaining to our


past, present or future existence. Novels are
like husks to those who have once feasted on the
things of God—the pure bread of life, and have
continued to retain that spirit. Satan is manifest-
ing his power, and these spiritual rappings and
mediums, which have turned so many people's
brain, are only forerunners of the great and more
mighty manifestations which are soon to be wit-
nessed from the spirit world. There are mil-
lions of the dead looking to this people to attend
to the ordinances that will redeem and free
them from their prison house, but they will com-
municate in a more intelligent manner than the
present senseless and disgusting mode. We
should beware of Satan, and understand that his
doctrines are generally the first to be introduced,
and we have been warned of his power, which
is to be such in the last days that he will be able
to deceive almost the very elect. And may God
grant that our wisdom, union and faith may in-
crea e until Satan can find no foot-hold nor rest-
ing place in our midst. Then he will be bound,
and can no longer have power to afflict our bod-
ies or spirits.
				HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
	Oct. 18th, 1883.


86	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

SANDWICH ISLANDS.

INTERESTING REPORT.

	A Conference of the Relief Societies of the
Sandwich Islands was held at Laie, Oct. 5th,
1883.
	On the stand, Mrs. S. L. Partridge, Mrs.
Armeda S. Young; native Counselors, Kaahanui
and Nalie; also Pres. E. Partridge, J. H. Gard-
ner and W. G. Farrell. Meeting was called
to order by Pres. Partridge. The Society of
Laie having formed themselves into a choir for
the occasion, and being dressed in white, arose
and sang one of the old songs that used to be
sung when Brother George Q. Cannon was on
the Islands, and which was composed by Bro.
R. Allred. Prayer by Kaahanui. Singing.
There are fifteen societies organized on the dif
ferent Islands at the present time, from all of
which written reports were read except one.
Verbal reports were also given of nearly all by
Presidents or Counselors of the different socie-
ties, which reports showed them to be in a
flourishing condition. The figures of the con-
densed reports were as follows: Number of mem-
bers April 5th, 1883, 332; died, 17; removed,
17; new members, 67; total number of mem-
bers Oct. 5th 1883, 345; amount of money in
the treasury on April 5th, 1883, 330,13;
amount donated since April, 272, 79 1/2; given to
the poor, 55,20; expended for other purposes,
144,30; amount in the treasury Oct. 5th, 1883,
403,39 1/2.
	A few remarks were made by Sisters Part-
ridge and Young, and interpreted by President
Partridge, who also addressed the meeting a
short time, instructing them in their duties
and encouraging them in their labors.
	Most of the money paid out of the treasury
has been donated by the different societies to
assist in building a house for the use of the so-
ciety at Laie; it is considered necessary for
them to have such a house, not only for the ac-
comodation of the poor but for other purposes.
It would be hard indeed for anyone who has
not had the experience to understand the many
difficulties to be overcome in trying to introduce
and establish these societies among a people so
simple in their understandings, and so unaccus-
tomed to anything of the kind, aside from the,
to me, almost insurmountable difficulty of learn-
ing the native language, it is a labor which re-
quires indefatigable exertions, and patience

[Colmun 2]

without any limit, with a firm reliance upon
our Heavenly Father for guidance, strength,
and the necessary qualifications to fit us for the
duties of the mission. I can see two or three
different ways in which I could spend every mo-
ment of my time to good advantage, but have
to content myself with doing what I can and
letting the rest go undone. Our Conference
and the visit of the king passed off with an ex-
cellent spirit, and in a satisfactory manner in
every respect; we all regretted the absence of
the queen, who was unavoidably deterred from
coming by the serious illness of her sister, the
governess of Hawaii, who also intended com-
ing until she was taken sick. I will leave an ac-
count of the reception of the king to more in-
teresting correspondents than myself.
	A Primary Association was organized by
President Partridge, on the 19th of August,
Mrs. S. L. Partridge acting as President for
the present, and Mrs. Armeda S. Young First
Counselor, and Hanaa, native woman, Second
Counselor, and Victoria Kekauoha, Secretary
for the native language, Ernest Partridge in
the English, with 39 names enrolled. Here
again is the difficulty of trying to teach child-
ren without having sufficient knowledge of the
language to explain things in clearness and
the perfect understanding of the children;
however, we can only do our best, trusting that
the Lord will bless our efforts. We are very
much in need of cards and books, so as to assist
us in making our meetings interesting to the
children, also to ourselves.
	Wishing the EXPONENT every success, I re-
main your sister in the Gospel,
	S. L. PARTRIDGE.

	LEWISTON, CACHE COUNTY Y. L. M. I. A.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	A meeting was held for the reorganization of
our association on the 29th of June, 1883.
The following officers were elected: Mrs Re-
becca Rawlins, President; Mrs. Anna E. Funk,
First Counselor; Miss Louisa Waddoups,
Second Counselor; Mrs. Sarah A. Orchard,
Secretary; Miss Emma Kemp, Assistant Secre-
tary; Eliza J. Stephenson, Treasurer and Li-
barian. We have thirty-four names enrolled;
our average attendance is twenty-two; we hold
our meetings once in two weeks, and have very
good meetings. The young sisters all take a
part in helping to make our meetings interest-
ing, and try to do whatever they are called up-
on. As an association we are trying to im-
prove our minds, and learn the ways of the
Lord. Our meetings consist of speaking, reci-
tations, essays, songs readings, etc.
	Wishing for the success of the EXPONENT, I
remain your sister in the Gospel,
	SARAH A. ORCHARD, Secretary.


HYRUM PRIMARY FAIR.

	The Primary Association of Hyrum held a
Fair in the school house on Tuesday, Oct. 2nd,
ult., under the presidency of Lucy Wilson and
Georgina Ralph.
	This is the first fair held in Hyrum by the
Primary. The young ladies also took part,
and had a stand for the Y. L. M. I. A. It
was a pleasant and enjoyable affair, showing
the interest and industry of what little hands
can do. The articles exhibited were of the
usual kind, tidies, mottoes, wool flowers, pin-
cushions, one skein of home-spun silk by a lit-
tle girl aged seven. To enumerate them all
would be impossible; there was everything,
from a miniature parasol to a bed quilt.
Every one present expressed their surprise at
seeing how much the little ones could do.
	On the young ladies' stand were a great
many useful and ornamental articles. A cro-
cheted jacket, breakfast shawl and ladies'


hood, by Mrs. Bevans, equal to any imported.
A very pretty crocheted petticoat by Miss
Rolfson. One thing worthy of special notice
was a charming bouquet of natural flowers,
they were beautifully and artistically ar-
ranged, showing great skill and ability, by
Georgina Ralph. There was needle work,
quilts, carpets and many other thinga made by
the young ladies.
	A Primary meeting was held at two p.m.
After the usual opening exercises the children
took up some time in songs, recitations, etc.
	The Association was then divided into three
districts. Sister Alice Unsworth to have
charge over the first district; Sister Lucy Wil-
son over the second; and Sister Maria Hansen
over the third. The meeting was then ad-
dressed by Bishop S. M. Molen, Brother Col-
lins of Bear Lake, Sister Jane E. Molen,
Stake President, President Lucy Wilson, and
Sister Parkinson, President of the Wellsville
Primary. All were well pleased and spoke
encouragingly to those present.
	Meeting was then dismissed. Benediction
by James Unsworth.
	Wishing the success of the EXPONENT,
			Your sister in the Gospel,
				ALICE UNSWORTH, Cor. Sec.


PRIMARY FAIR.

	The Primary Association of Lehi City, Utah
County, held a very pleasing Fair, beginning
Friday, Oct. 19th. In all respects it was a de-
lightful show of the handiwork of the children.
Each district held articles of peculiar interest.
To enumerate them all would be utterly impos-
sible; it was quite marvelous what they could
do in regard to cooking, such as plum puddings,
pies, sponge cakes, jelly cakes, rice pudding,
cooked chickens, jelly, preserves and different
kinds of pickles and beautiful bread and but-
ter.
	A very nice show of wool flowers were given
on the occasion. One globe of wool flowers
was made by the First District to be donated
to the Temple; also three very nice quilts made
by the First, Second and Third Districts to be
presented to the Deseret Hospital. There was
some nice plain needle work, such as children's
dresses, pillow cases, down to netting and darn-
ing. There was a splendid show of rugs, tidies,
lily mats, daisy mats, mottoes, paper work in
the shape of lanterns, stars, wreaths, chains
and pen wipers. Though the girls had a
greater display the boys came in for a large
share of the praise. There was some splendid
carpenter work, and among the rest was a
threshing machine, made by a boy 14 years of
age, and a cupboard, book case, clock shelf,
corner brackets, reel, tool box and saw, made
by boys from 12 to 14 years of age. There was
a beautiful show of agriculture, such as fine
squash, cabbage, potatoes, red peppers, beets,
turnips, cucumbers, beans, onions, and a num-
ber of other useful things grown by the child-
ren of the Primary.
			SARAH A. BALL, Secretary.


ITEMS OF A LETTER FROM
BELLE M. JOHNSON.

TEMPE, Arizona.

	Yesterday a small company came over from
Tempe and we all went into the hills to see
the ruins of a large town that lies between
here and Phoenix. I wish I could describe
the loveliness of the scenery around and be-
yond them. It was late and we did not have
time to go over the town, only stopping at two
ruins, the first a building seventy or eighty feet
square, with a long hall on the south, and the
north divided into apartments, so the crumb-
ling rocks showed. But the most imposing is
a ruin at least 300 feet long by 150 wide—


that is guessing, which has an outer wall leav-
ng a space between for a wide drive perfect-
ly distinct, the corners as plainly visible as
ever they were. It must have been a stupen-
dous building, standing upon a solid mass at
least ten feet high, with two round elevations
on the north side still higher, probably towers;
it must either have been a temple, a king's res-
idence or a place of refuge for the whole city,
which is large. A large room on the east, out-
side the outer wall, built into it, has
been partly excavated and shows that the
place was destroyed by fire, as layers on layers
of ashes fill the centre, with blackened sea
shells as well as some not blackened, which
have been thrown out.
	The pottery here is of a better quality, also
being painted, and every thing shows it to
have been a place of importance. I had
strange feelings as I walked over their grave
of the past, and wondered what scenes had
been enacted there. Any one could spend
days at that place and not be satisfied, and it
is only one of many such in this country. I
would like to study up the Book of Mormon
now. We are plainly traveling in the tracks
of the Nephites. I could not sleep last night
for studying and thinking about that place,
and longing to know its history. A poem
written on that ancient pile ought to be grand.
We are living on the south side of a range
of hills that become ambitious now and then
and almost look like mountains; there are plen-
ty of quails, rabbits, coyotes and rattlesnakes
in them, and plenty of lovely little spots up
the gulches, minus water, besides strong indi-
cations of gold. The most fault I have to find
with the country is its partiality for thorns;
not content with supplying every native tree
with them, besides a half a dozen kinds of cac-
tus, they grow out of the ground in balls, just
like flowers do in other countries, and woe to
the barefoot or thin soled traveler who comes
in contact with them. It would make you
start to see one of our toads, they will about
fill a good sized wash dish comfortably. Just
imagine one of these pets hopping about the
house catching flies; lizards are plentiful, from
the little white ring-tailed variety to the Gila
monster, but we considered them nice little
pets since rattlesnake season commenced.
	While looking at the giant, thorny cactus I
often think of the poor man, Brother C. R.
Savage, perched up in one of them for a photo,
and think if he was going to set me up in one
I would speak to have it well covered with
sheet iron, wouldn't you?


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 87


[Column 1]
PEOPLE WE MEET.

	In this great world there are various ways
of gaining knowledge. It is often said
knowledge is obtained from books, or by means
of education, meaning such as one gets in the
schools. In one sense of the word this is part-
ly true, but it is very far from being the whole
truth. There are many other methods of ob-
taining knowledge. We hear a gerat deal in
the present day about self-made people, not-
withstanding all the schools, colleges and uni-
versities that cover the land, and from whence
the light of science beams with refulgent rays,
yet after all, these highly educated, college-
learned men seldom make so successful a mark
in the world, as those who struggling with ad-
verse surroundings develop those persistently
enduring qualities that are sure to grapple
with untoward circumstances, and overcome
what would be to the weak insurmountable
obstacles. It is true that experience is a dear
school, and it is also perfectly true tbat its les-
sons are far more impressive than those learned
from books.
	Not to undervalue book education, for that
I would not do, still there are many people who

[Column 2]
know more and can entertain and edify those
they come in contact with, much better than
men of profound learning. It is very pleasant
to be able to learn from people; one of the best
studies in the world is that of human nature as
we find it in the people we meet. And when
we add to that the varied experiences of differ-
ent individuals as they become known to us,
and the many interesting incidents that char-
acterize the life of every person whose history
is worth knowing, what a vast fund of infor-
mation is contained therein.
	For instance, we meet a lady whose life has
been apart from ours, one whom we had never
heard of, and she tells us something of her life-
experience, her peculiar circumstances, we be-
come intensely interested, she has traveled in
foreign lands, seen much of society in the high-
er circles and also associated herself as a phil-
anthropist among the humble, the needy and
the distressed. From her we learn many use-
ful lessons. We find her well posted in the
affairs of the nation, and able to converse in
telligently about the government and the poli-
cy of its statesmen, yet having a personal his-
tory full of material worthy a place in the li-
brary of the novelist. She tells us of the
noble self-sacrifices of her friends who are
striving to elevate others, of their struggles
against the sneers and reproaches of those who
live narrow and selfish lives. O, what
nobility of purpose nerves those, who in the
face of cruel opposition stand boldly forth and
proudly conscious of their superior power to
rise above the common conditions of mortals,
receive from those to whom their ministra-
tions seem almost divine the love and affection
that more than repays them for any annoyance
or self-denial it has caused. The story of a life;
what is it? It is the most intensely interest-
ing, thrilling and pathetic of anything that we
could possibly imagine, no matter whether the
person has traveled by land and sea, or
whether the life has been passed in a country
town without any great changes or interrup-
tions, it still has that peculiarly fascinating
charm that will draw around it that which
awakens the tender emotions of the heart. Let
half a dozen people meet together and each
one tell her peculiar experiences, what a vol-
ume is contained in the simple recitals, and
how much we may avoid what is evil, if we
heed the lessons thus given, or on the other
hand, what incentives there seem to be to pur-
sue an upright, onward course in the attain-
ment of the highest good possible. In this
way we may daily advance in the pursuit of
knowledge; but to do so we must actually
think, must concentrate our ideas, and devote
our energies in the direction to which we as-
pire; a careless, thoughtless person will never
accomplish much, for whatever one does there
must of necessity be work in it.
	We are always telling our young people to
read the biographies of distinguished people,
there is so much to be learned from them; that is
all very true, and the advice is quite proper, but
there is really much to be learned from the
people we meet every day, if we have the fac-
ulty to discern and study character. Not only
that, but the manner and appearance make an
impression, and one desires to emulate that
which is perfect in everything. The society
we associate with helps us to be better or we
retrograde. Improvement is the aim of all
who have even ordinary ambition, and when I
say improvement I do not mean alone in mind,
but in all that helps to make men and women
more perfect in every acquirement, and to be
able to help others as well as themselves. And
I argue that every good and great man or
woman does help mankind, and it should be
the desire of every Latter-day Saint to make
the most of the opportunities given, and in fact
not to wait for opportunities to come, but to
push forward and do all in his or her power

[Column 3]
to obtain knowledge on all subjects in every
way that is right and proper, and above all
ask God for wisdom to aid in the search for
knowledge, and to help us to discriminate be-
tween that which will ennoble and exalt and
that which will be of no advantage here or
hereafter. Seek to emulate those who have
given us the best examples, and look among
men of our own day and time. It is very
common to refer to those who have lived long
ago, patterns of excellence, and to ignore the
good and pure and noble of our own day.
The people we meet in the daily walks of life,
those who are really worth cultivating will
have power to influence us for good in some
direction, if only in our deportment, or con-
versation.
	If we are to prepare ourselves to associate
with angels and holy beings, and this is what
a saint aspires to, we cannot begin too soon,
and laying aside all that is frivolous and emp-
ty, do honor to the position we occupy on this
earth and prepare for an exaltation in the fu-
ture, which we can only obtain by our faith-
fulness, diligence and fervor in all good works.
							AUNT EM.


﻿FOR THE JOURNAL.

	Right has always met with oppression when
advocated by the few, yet. where that few have
stood with firmness and integrity to their
canse, triumph has been their reward. I do
not know of any time when this has been
shown more forcibly than in the early settle-
ment of America. The Puritans were a peo-
ple, it seems to me, who were directed by the
hand of God to take the course they did. They
were a conscientious, God-fearing people. A
people, too, who felt that they had a right to
worship Him in accordance with the inmost
promptings of their hearts. This they could
not do in that land where they then dwelt,
(being persecuted and driven from one place
to another) so they sought America, not be-
cause of its advantages, or comforts as a dwel-
ling place, but that they might enjoy their
rights unmolested. They left their homes,
and with hopeful, prayerful hearts started out
on their journey, not knowing that they would
ever arrive at the destination they sought, yet
trusting in God for their guidance.
	They reached the land and in time prospered
and grew. In after years, when the revolu-
tion broke out, this spirit of right was still a
prominent feature in the character of the Amer-
ican people. The majority of them had come
to this land that they might live in accordance
with the dictates of their consciences. So great
was the desire to maintain this that they fought
for freedom of conscience, and many of them
died for it. Then to make its establishment
more sure, it was made one of the articles of
our Constitution, that "Congress shall make no
law respecting an establishment of religion, or
prohibiting the free exercise thereof." This
was a liberty of which no other nation could
boast, and which has been a bright and shining
ornament to America, because it was a right
and just law. We have men in the halls of
Congress to-day who say they are proud of the
fact that they are Americans; who are proud to
tell of her liberty and her freedom; and these
very men are trampling into the dust the laws
of the Constitution and enacting in their stead
others contrary to the spirit of it, for the pur-
pose of oppressing, and finally driving the peo-
ple of Utah; and all because our religious
views do not coincide with theirs, and because
we choose to worship God as He has command-
ed that we shall. The Latter-day Saints are a
very few compared with fifty millions of peo-
ple; but we have the satisfaction of knowing
that we have right on our side, and the prom-
ise of Him whose word can never fail, that if


we do our duty faithfully we need fear no evil;
for He has established His Kingdom. never
more to be thrown down.		L. A. S.
	Manuscript paper, Young Ladies' Journal,
Nephi, Utah.


88	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
﻿IN MEMORIAM.

	In loving remembrance of Ella Olivia, beloved
daughter of Benjamin W. and Olivia Pratt
Driggs, who died at Plessant Grove, Oct. 21st.
1883, aged twenty-three years, six months and
twenty-one days.
	Our dear one has gone, though we can scarcely
realize the extent of our loss in the suddeness of
our bereavement. But when we visit the fam-
iliar places where we have been acustomed to
see her, we will miss the bright face, the gay
smile and the pleasant word that always greeted
us. We will miss her sweet voice in our sacred
worship, in our social reunions, in our griefs and
in our joys. And her last song was, "Think of
me kindly when I am gone." We will think
kindly of darling Ella every time we hear one of
the hundreds of sweet songs she sang.
	It was hard to say our sad farewell, and to see
her borne from the loving gaze of family and
friends in the fair bloom of her youth, but we do
not think of her with sorrow inconsolable, for
we know that she is happy with the blest, and
we feel as our sweet friend used to sing, "He
doeth all things well."
Farewell, dear Ella, sorrowing hearts now almost
	breaking,
	Would fain have kept thee had it been His will;
But since thy spirit is of heavenly joys partaking,
	The thought of thy blest lot our hearts with peace
	shall fill.

	DIED, at Enterprise, Morgan Co., September 14th,
1883, Sister Margaret Kirkman Green, after long pro-
tracted suffering, which she bore with great fortitude.
	She was born April 17th, 1817, at Manchester, Eng-
land, and when three years of age went with her par-
ents to Africa, she there joined the Church, being bap-
tized at Fort Beaufort, South Africa, 1854. Emigrated
to Utah in 1863 with five children and a granddaughter,
leaving her husband whom she expected would follow
the next year, but he never came; he died about a year
ago. She has one married daughter still in Africa.
	At the organization of the Relief Society of Enter-
prise Ward Sister Green was chosen President, and
faithfully discharged the duties of that position until
long continued sickness caused her to resign.
	She was a true and affectionate mother and a faithful
friend. Her faith in the Gospel was firm to the last.
						MARY HALL, Secretary.

	IN memory of Emma Olivia Croft, wife of John Croft
of Enterprise, Morgan Co., who died of dropsy and
heart disease September 29th, 1883. Sister Croft was
President of the Ward Relief Society, having been ap-
pointed to that position on the resignation of the late
Sister Green. She was also an able assistant in the
Sunday School, a duty she took great delight in. Dur-
ing her last illness she expressed a wish that the child-
ren should attend her funeral and strew flowers into
her grave, which request was complied with. She was
born at Rolston, Staffordshire, England, Feb. 16th, 1821.
Her many excellent qualities and good actions will long
be remembered by those who knew her.
							MARY HALL, Secretary.

	DIED, at the residence of her daughter in the 2nd
Ward, Salt Lake City, Mrs. Mary Laird, on October 20th
1883, of pneumonia.
	Deceased was born July 3rd, 1826, in Kilpatrick, Par-
ish of Kilpatrick, Denfrewshire, Scotland. Baptized in-
to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints on
November 22nd, 1843, under the hands of James Thom-
son, Glasgow Branch, Scotland. She was the daughter
of Hugh Renney and Elizabeth Checlman. She was
married to James Laird August 27th, 1847, at Darby,
Scotland. Emigrated to America in November, 1856,
Crossed the plains in J. G. Wooley's handcart company.
She lived at Mountain Dell Ward, and was President
of the Relief Society there. She leaves to mourn her
departure a loving husband, two sons, two daughters

[Column 2]
and twenty-two grand children. She was the mother
of four sons and six daughters. She lived and died a
faithful Latter-day Saint, looking forward to all the
promises of God pertaining to His latter-day work.

	Resolutions of Respect to the memory of Susan Clay-
son, who departed this life October 16th, 1883.
	Whereas an alwise Providence has called from us by
the hand of death our beloved sister,
	Resolved, That we recognize in the death of our sis-
ter, Susan Clayson, the loss of an able, efficient and
worthy counselor of the Primary Association and teach-
er of the Relief Society of Payson Ward.
	Resolved, That we esteem her past faithful labors and
devotion to duty as worthy the fellowship and highest
respect of us all.
	Resolved, That we condole and deeply sympathize
with the bereaved family and friends in the loss of a
kind wife, affectionate mother, and a good and respect-
ed citizen.
	Resolved, That these resolutions be spread upon our
records, and that a copy of the same be furnished the
bereaved family, also the WOMAN'S EXPONENT and the
Territorial Enquirer for publication.
	Fannie Sargent, Matilda Dixon, Sarah Brewerton,
Amy Hancock, Presidents of the four districts of Pay-
son Ward.
				Yours Respectfully,
					MILLIE STARKER, Secretary.


The Woman's Congress and the Illinois So-
cial Science Association have both been in ses-
sion in Chicago during October.
	The Woman Suffragists feel a little exultant
over the triumph of their cause in Washing-
ton Territory Legislature, October 17th, when
the majority vote was in favor of the ballot
for women.


[Column 1]
ELLEN B. FURGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office and Residence on 2d South between 3d
and 4d East Streets.

Special Study has been given to SURGERY, DISEASES
OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS.
☞ Can be Called by Telephone Day or Night.

For Sale at this Office.

BOOKS BY ELIZA H. SNOW.

PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,		-	25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,		40c.	"
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,		-		$1.00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco,		1.50	"

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
Office and residence, South Temple Street, one
block and a half west of the Valley House.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Contitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
flannels,	WhiteYarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yams,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence

[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
☞ We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS.
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

[Image of store]
HENRY DINWOODEY.

FURNITURE,
WALL PAPER,
CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUINS
AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY.

F Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMINE. ☜


[Handwritten "Hannah Hall"]

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

﻿The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 12.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 15, 1883.	No. 12.


LIFE'S SUMMER IS WANING.

How swift the fleeting years depart—
	Old time's stern hand we trace—
Which leaves, if not within the heart,
	Its impress on the face.
But yester morn to me it seems
	Since life's bright summer's dawn
Shed first on me its radiant beams,
	And now 'tis well nigh gone.

The hair that once was sunny brown
	Is changing fast to gray;
The pearly teeth once whit and sound
	Are falling to decay;
The eyes that once were clear and bright, 
	And sparkled like the dew,
Have now exchanged their lustrous light
	For one of sadder hue.
The face that in life's youthful day
	Was like the apple bloom,
Now plainly says that mortal clay
	Is destined for the tomb.
And with the transient bloom of youth
	That from my brow hath fled,
Lie many of its cherished hopes
	Entombed among the dead.
Yes, many castles bright and fair,
	Which fancy made complete,
Now lie like bubbles of the air
	In ruins at my feet.
And shall I mourn departing youth
	Who's evanescent joy
Hath given place to Gospel Truth,
	So pure, without alloy.
Ah, no! a thousand times more fair
	Is truth's effulgent beams,
A God to hear and answer prayer,
	Than youth's vain, fleeting dreams.
There is a beauty not of earth,
	That fadeth not away,
But for the faithful and the good	
	Increaseth day by day.
The Holy Ghost doth joys impart, 
	Which none but Saints may know; 
A balm it hath for every smart,
	A bliss for every woe;
Its joys end not with mortal life,
	Its peace can never die; 
The righteous still this gift possess
	In realms beyond the sky.
There may we meet, sweet friend of mine,
	When mortal life is through,
Where joys that fade so soon in time
	Shall be forever new.
When earth restored shall be our place,
	All pain and sorrow cease,
When Christ, the Lord, unveils His face
	To bring His Saints release.		M. A. F.


POLITICAL OSTRACISM.

	I have just been reading that (to me) amus-
ing article, the second annual report of the
Utah Commission. Let us quote from the
precious document, "It is thought that discrimi-
nation between those Mormons who practice
polygamy and those who do not, while not
likely to have much effect upon elderly men
who have already a plurality of wives and
several wives, must have great weight with
young men of the Territory, many of whom
are ambitious and aspiring, and would not like
voluntarily to embrace political ostracism."
	Well, for the sake of the honor and future
welfare of the young men of Utah, I hope that
the opinion of the Utah Commission is well


founded in that they are ambitious and aspir-
ing. Seeing that their fathers and mothers are
the most ambitious people upon the face of
the whole earth, not to obtain worldly honors,
but to become good and great, and that they
are aspiring to thrones, principalities and
powers in the celestial kingdom of our God, to
become Gods, even the sons and daughters
of God, if they were not aspiring they
would scarcely do credit to their paren-
tage and training. As for political os-
tracism, I fancy that they would scarce-
ly feel at home in any other element,
'tis their native air. Has the world ever
treated them, as brothers in the great family of
our Father? Their fathers and mothers have
counted the world well lost for the Gospel's
sake, and have freely forsaken all in obedience
to the call, "Come out of her, O ye my peo-
ple, that ye partake not of her sins, that ye re-
ceive not of her plagues."
	Brave young men indeed, if they cannot
bear political ostracism, when their parents
have not only borne that, but banishment
from civilization (so called) to a wild, barren
country, inhabited only by savages and wild
beasts, (even these were kinder than their
Christian friends) where it was hoped they could
not live. Worthy sons of such self-sacrificing
fathers and mothers. Had I a son grown to
manhood who would forsake the religion for
which his parents had suffered so much for po-
litical honors, or any other consideration, ex-
cept from an honest conviction that it was
wrong, I should be far, very far from proud of
that son.
	But I have no fears for the yonng men of
Utah. God has designed that a noble race
should be raised up in these mountain fast-
nesses, and trained in the nurture and admon-
ition of the Lord, for this purpose has the Lord
revealed that holy order of celestial marriage,
which the world make so much fuss about,
that a righteous seed might be raised up unto
Him, with greater faith even than their fathers
had, that they might bear off this great work
triumphant; and what is the world that they
should fear it, when they know they are en-
gaged in the work of the Great God?
								RUTH.
	November 1st, 1883.


PHYSICAL CULTURE.

	Gymnastics is a term of very extended sig-
nification. Among the ancient Greeks it meant
that part of physics which related to exercises
for the health. The Greeks understood well
what an intimate connection there is between
body and mind; how invariably the healthy or
sickly temperament of the one influenced that
of the other; so that when the body is strong,
healthy and active, the mind is elastic and ca-
pable of accomplishing a great deal; but when
the former is diseased and frail, the latter is
languid or depressed. The Spartans wor-
shipped the beautiful; but the beauty of the
face did not suffice; it had to be a beautiful
body; they saw the highest ideals of beauty on-
ly in the perfect human form. I quote in
brief from an article written by Dr. Holbrook
in the Herald, of Health. "The Spartans did
more than worship the beautiful and useful;
they took means to secure them. They gave
to every boy and girl such an education as
would secure to them bodily perfection. The


youths were almost continually out of doors;
every boy learned how to plant and harvest
the crops, every girl how to do household work.
The highest lady in Sparta did menial work.
In their early training in the gymnasium the
boys and girls contested with each other in the
simplest clothing—indeed in very little clothing
at all. Every physical power stood out bold-
ly. Every healthy Spartan girl was obliged
to marry; every sickly girl was obliged to ab-
stain from marriage. Girls were not allowed
to marry young; they had to be mature first.
Boys and men were treated in the same way.
No sickly young man could marry, but all
healthy ones were compelled to do so. For
five hundred years there was produced in
Greece a succession of the strongest and brav-
est men, and the most healthful and beautiful
women that have ever lived."
	I would like to say a kind word to Alice C.
Smith. I am very pleased to make your ac-
quaintance, and greet you warmly over moun-
tain and sea. You say you are a "coward
and so wear your old clothes—fetters," I am
not, but wear independently a short dress
about my work. If people do not like it they
are at liberty to dislike it, it is all the same to
me.						S. G. S.—Ex.


THE LAST CHAPTER OF SCENES IN
NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	During the week that we remained in Nau-
voo we called upon a few of our old neighbors,
among them was Dr. Weld, one of the oldest
settlers, where we spent one evening. My hus-
band's sister, Sarah Ann, accompanied us to
Mr. Hibbard's, who were also old settlers at
Commerce, and they had received the Gospel.
The "Mormons" settling there speedily in-
creased their wealth, so that instead of their
old log row a large brick mansion was soon
reared. But their worldly riches made a ship-
wreck of what little faith they possessed. We
had been associated together from the first set-
tling of Nauvoo, and the first party that my
brother William and myself attended in that
place was given on the first Christmas by their
little son and daughter, and after we were
grown up we were invited to several balls
given in their new home. In fact the old lady
had a number of times, when in a good na-
tured mood, thrown out sly hints that I might
be the wife ef her son William, who would be
the heir to their estate. Though their home
was beautifully situated upon the banks of the
Mississippi, with a lovely green lawn sloping
down from the house to the river bank, with
flowers and shrubbery, and the view from the
water was most charming, neither my ambition
nor my fancy would lead me in that direction;
for he had neither education, polish or wit.
	His father was what might be termed a fine
old gentleman, and was very generous and hos-
pitable, but his wife was quite the opposite, and
sometimes nearly a shrew. They owned large
orchards with a great variety of fruit, but to
see other people eating of it without paying
her caused her to feel very uncomfortable.
	Her son and youngest daughter were her
pets, and the latter had been lately married to
a cousin who had come there from the east.
We did not call out of any desire of our own,
but went by the request of a friend, as we were


[Column 1]
riding around for pleasure. When we entered
their door we met with so cold a reception that
it was like being in the vicinity of an iceberg.
Neither Mr. Hibbard nor his son were at
home, but the son-in-law was, and his looks
showed plainly how he felt towards "Mor-
mons," and that was the first time that we had
met him. There was but one in the room who
treated us with any degree of respect, and that
was their daughter, Mrs. Amos Davis, who was
the one we called to see. We ouly stopped a
few minutes, and before the hall door was
closed behind us we heard them roaring with
laughter, which, of course, was intended for
our ears. They thought, no doubt, that this
would crush us, but we considered the source
and felt as much relieved as though we had es-
caped from a hornet's nest. A few years after
we had settled in this valley we were told by
good authority that William Hibbard was
taken up with a gang of horse thieves some-
where in California and hung.
	Friday, the 27th of February, I bade my
last adieu to our home and city and recrossed
the Mississippi with Bishop Whitney's family,
whom he sent to camp in charge of Father C.
R. Lott, the Bishop remaining behind to see
his own and the church teams over, and he
came to the camp next day. Brother Joseph
C. Kingsbury and Wm. Clayton staid back in
Nauvoo to assist in winding up the church
business. During that time Wm. Clayton
composed a parody on the song, "Dido and I,"
and though I have forgotten the words, the
burthen of it was that the chores had been
left for the "Bishop and I," which was after-
wards sung in camp with much gusto by the
boys.
	It seems only a little time since those scenes
were transacted which I have been rehearsing.
When memory is once aroused how many a
forgotten incident comes up which has lain
hidden for years among the dusty and smoul-
dering cobwebs of the past. Just now my
mind reverts back to a lovely evening in the
summer of 1844, when strolling upon the hill
side with a young gentleman (Mr. Hatch) and
two of my girl companions who proposed, as
we came to the brink of the hill, that we
should seat ourselves upon some of the Tem-
ple rocks near by and watch the setting sun
with its beautiful reflections on the river and
our quiet city that rested in the valley below.
We little dreamed, as we sat there enjoying
the delightful scenery, more particularly the
lovely landscape beyond the Mississippi, until
the sun had sank behind the western hills, how
very soon our paths would be in separate di-
rections, and our cities abandoned to wicked
foes, and I be traveling with homeless exiles
beyond those hills towards the setting sun.
Scarcely seven years had elapsed since the
saints were driven from Missouri, and came
there weary, homeless and destitute,-hundreds
lying sick and dying with scarcely an earthly
comfort, or well ones enough to hand them a
drink of water or even to give a respectable
burial to their dead. And in the midst of
this scene my father and his brother Apostles,
who were sick, and their families, almost unto
death, started for Great Britian to fulfil a rev-
elation, and which the evil one was determined
to frustrate. But the Lord blessed them and
their families, as He had promised inasmuch
as they were obedient. And by faith and
perseverance, with the blessings of God, there
in the place of forests and sickly swamps lay a
beautiful and thriving city, with lovely farms
and villages springing up around us as if by
magic, and this had all been accomplished by
the toil and sweat of an honest and energetic
people, whose efforts and desires were centered
in the building of a Temple to the Lord. And
in this they had proven their love and devo-
tion to Him; for with willing hands and tithes
and offerings from their frugal store, and His

[Column 2]
assistance they had accomplished it, and been
endowed with those blessings and keys which
had been promised through His Prophet Jos-
eph, which were the greater riches, and of
these no man could rob them. Though the
wicked and lawless could drive us into the bar-
ren wilderness to endure the pangs of hunger
and death in many forms, and they could des-
ecrate and demolish our Temple, they could
not turn us from our faith, nor break down
the walls that preserved the virtue and chasti-
ty of "Mormon" women. We preferred to go
among the wild savages and suffer, if need be,
rather than forsake the only true religion or
to dwell in the midst of alarm. All the crimes
committed against the "Mormons" have been
allowed to go unpunished, which is a lasting
stain on our country, a boasted land of free-
dom and a refuge for the oppressed of every
nation. What mockery! The following is
from a revelation given to the Prophet Joseph:
"I, the Lord, justify you, and your brethren of
my church, in befriending that law which is
the constitutional law of the land. And as
pertaining to law of man, whatsoever is more
or less than these cometh of evil. I, the Lord,
make yon free, therefore ye are free indeed;
and the law also maketh you free; neverthe-
less when the wicked rule the people mourn."
	Though our people have long been oppressed
we have not lost any of that spirit and love of
freedom which inspired our fathers—the dar-
ing sons of liberty, to stand in their own de-
fense—but we shall not turn traitors to our be-
loved country nor its institutions, which we
know were formed by inspired men; but we
shall continue to sue for our rights, and leave
the rest in the hands of the Almighty, who is
already vexing them as he said He should do if
they would not cease their wickedness and per-
secution of His people.
	The testimony of the servants of God has
gone forth unto the condemnation of this gen-
eration, because the majority have hardened
their hearts against them, and in a revelation
to Joseph the Lord said, "Verily, I say unto
you, that woe shall come unto the inhabitants
of the earth if they will not hearken unto my
words. O! this anbelieving and stiffnecked
geraration, mine anger is kindled against
them." * * * * *
	"For a desolating scourge shall go forth
among the inhabitants of the earth, and shall
continue to be poured out from time to time,
if they repent not, until the earth is empty, and
the inhabitants thereof are consumed away
and utterly destroyed by the brightness of my
coming. Behold, I tell you of these things,
even as I told the people of the destruction of
Jerusalem, and my word shall be verified at
this time as it hath hitherto been verified."
The Lord also said, "Whoso layeth down his
life in my cause, for my name's sake, shall find
it again, even life eternal: Therefore, be not
afraid of your enemies, for I have decreed in
my heart, saith the Lord, that I will prove you
in all things whether you will abide in my cov-
enant, even unto death, that you may be found
worthy. For if ye will not abide in my cov-
enant, ye are not worthy of me." Concerning
those who have been afflicted and persecuted
and cast out from the land of their inherit-
auce, He said, "I, the Lord, have suffered the
affliction to come upon them, wherewith they
have been afflicted, in consequence of their
transgressions; yet I will own them, and they
shall be mine in that day when I shall come to
make up my jewels. Therefore, they must
needs be chastened and tried, even as Abraham,
who was commanded to offer up his only son:
* * * Verily I say unto you,
notwithstanding their sins, my bowels are filled
with compassion towards them: I will uot utter-
ly cast them off; and in the day of wrath I
will remember mercy."
	"I have sworn, and the decree hath gone

[Column 3]
forth by a former commandment which I have
given unto you, that I would let fall the sword
of mine indignation in the behalf of my peo-
ple; and even as I have said, it shall come to
pass.'
	It may not be out of place here to repeat a
few of the prophetic worde spoken in the Tem-
ple at Kirtland, much of which has come to
pass, and therefore our faith should be strength-
ened to believe that the whole will be as liter-
ally fulfilled. They were related to me by
Father Butterfield, of Santaquin, where I vis-
ited this summer. And Brother Charles Hyde,
the Patriarch, being at Father Butterfield's,
bore witness that he was present in that Tem-
ple, and heard the same things. The former
was doorkeeper there for two years. The Pat-
riarch, Father Smith, said, "It is a time of
peace now, but there will be a great apostacy
here among us. The judgments will commence
right here, and they will try to burn this Tem-
ple, but they cannot do it, for it will stand as a
monument for this generation to look at.
There will be men that you little think of who
will seek Joseph's life—then we shall be driven
from city to city—we shall go beyond the
Rocky Mountains into the valleys of Ephraim.
Then there'll be great excitement for Mexico
and Oregon, for the Lord will contrive a way
to call out the honest in heart." The Prophet
Joseph said, "Thus saith the Lord, the govern-
ment will send an army far away in the west
beyond the Rocky Mountains, and it will be
just before the north and south go to war, and
I will give it to you as a sign, as the Savior
gave the disciples, "When you see Jerusalem
surrounded with armies they may know that
their desolation is at hand." They heard the
mother of the Patriarch, Charles Hyde, give
the interpretation of tongues in that Temple.
Among the things spoken was that "this people
would be driven from city to city, and many
would shed their blood for a testimony to the
truth of this work, Joseph would be cast into
prison, and the people would say "Mormonism
is down." The trials would be so great that it
would seem as if the Saints could never go
through them. Then there would be another
that would be more severe than the first, and
it would appear as though they could never go
through it. Then the power of the Lord
would be made manifest, and their enemies con-
founded, and Joseph's name would then be sa-
cred among all nations." He said that some
of the Saints felt very sad over these things,
believing that the Prophet would have to die
before they could be fulfilled. We have wit-
nessed his death and the fulfillment of the
most of these predictions, and we know that
the blood of our martyrs is still crying from
the dust, and that He who has promised to
avenge His people of their wrongs will repay
our enemies four fold, and that all they have
taken from us will have to be restored with in-
terest; and let the faithless ones mark it down,
that day is nearer than many of us have imag-
ined.


90	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿"The woman's department at the Boston fair
has created surprise among those who think
women cannot invent. Some of the contriv-
ances are ingenious."
	"H. H." has a paper on Southern California
in the December Centnry. It is a description
of the founding of the "City of the Angels,"
Los Angeles, a story so picturesque and roman-
tic that the author declares it "a tale for verse
rather than for prose."
	How strange that so few people understand
what it is to stand on a principle, leaving the
consequences to take care of themselves, and
knowing that the final result of doing right is
always good!—Elizabeth B. Chace.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 91


I'LL LAY BY THE HARP.
BY MARY J. TANNER.

I had once thought to gather a bay for my brow,
	Or a laurel my crown to illumine;
But, alas, the illusion is swept from me now,
	And the poet is merged in the woman.

I had thought, when my cares and my sorrows were o'er
	And the downhill of life was inclining,
To spread out my sails for that beautiful shore,
	And bask where the sunbeams were shining.

But alas for the hopes that are centered on earth
	Where the storm clouds around us can hover;
They fade, like the spirit that's given them birth,
	Ere their brightness our hearts can discover.

We sigh for the touch of a hand that's divine,
	and long for a glory immortal;
But the light of our vision so dimly must shine
	through the mist that hangs over the portal.

We mark for our footsteps a path that is fair,
	And hope, by our labor, to gain it;
We grasp for the light that is guiding us there,
	But our hands are too weak to retain it.

As the traveler, who climbs to the top of the hill,
	Is lost in amaze to discover
Another one, higher and steeper, there still,
	He must climb ere his journey is over.

I have labored through life with a light just ahead,
	Like a star o'er my pathway to guide me,
But when I have thought on its portals to tread,
	The pleasure I sought was denied me.

I had thought in my own happy fancies to bask,
	And the thought to my soul was elating;
But my hands have grown weary with many a task,
	And my heart has grown heavy with waiting.

Then I'll lay  by the harp, for its strings are undone,
	and the sound of its music is dying;
The hopes I have cherished have passed one by one,
	and their fragments around me are lying.


PRIMARY FAIR.

PIMA, GRAHAM CO., ARIZONA.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT;

	By way of encouragement the R. S. and Y.
L. joined with the Primary in holding their first
fair at Pima, November 2nd and 3rd. Each
association was represented by separate tables,
being beautifully decorated with different
kinds of needle work, embroidery, (silk and
cotton) crochet, netting, lace ties. cushions,
cardboard ornaments, flowers, lamp mats, knit-
ting, home spun yarn, home made hats (which
met with a ready sale). The walls were nice-
ly decorated with a numerous variety of quilts,
rugs, and different kinds of ornaments. There
was also forty yards of rag carpet made by the 
R. S., and twenty yards by the Y. L., both be-
ing very good quality. We will not forget to
make mention of some very nice cotton raised
by the R. S. There was on exhibition speci-
mens of sweet potatoes weighing three pounds,
raised by E. W. East, also turnips weighing
six pounds, raised by J. W. Moody.
	As far as the Primary department was con-
cerned, it was simply beautiful, being nicely
ornamented with different kinds of pastry, but-
ter and bread, also a nice display of little toys,
consisting of picture frames, pin cushions, em-
broidery, doll's stockings, little chair and ta-
ble, rakes, butter paddles, churn dashers, ox
yokes, ladders, knives, etc., etc.; melons, pop-
corn and squashes were seen on the table,
raised by little boys under eleven years of
age. The talent displayed by the little ones
was excellent. We had almost forgotten to
mention the quilts and patchwork made by the
little girls, which were very nice, we will men-
tion the quilts and patchwork made by the
little girls, which were very nice, we will men-
tion in particular a little bed set, made by La-
prial Nuttall, aged five years, the hemming
would do credit to a ten year old girl.


We closed with a dance for the little folks,
interspersed with singing from the children.
"Watching for Pa" was sung beautifully by
two little boys and three little girls under eight
years of age.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion, we re-
main, your sisters in the Gospel of peace,
			WILLMIRTH EAST, Stake Pres.
			LUCINDA GUSTAFSON, Sec.


WOMAN’S VOICE.

	I hope a few lines from our Relief Society
in Marriottsville will not be intruding on the col-
umns of our noble little paper, the EXPONENT.
Ouo sisters, generally, are wide awake to their
duties, and show their faith by their works, in
looking after the sick, the poor and needy, of
which we have some few in our midst. They
also donate liberally to the Temple in course
of erection, and whenever calls are made to
help emigrate the Saints from abroad they
always respond, and I think keep pace with
the societies in other wards. We also have a
granary, and are storing up wheat. We have
purchased an acre of land and have two hun-
dred live mulberry trees, have done what we
could in the silk culture, and expect to get
our silk reeled this fall. Our Primary Associa-
tion held their fair in September. It was al-
together a success. The little folks showed
their taste and skill to good advantage. I must
make mention of the surprise we gave our
worthy President, Mrs. Ann Bickington. On
the first day of the present month (November)
being her 67th birthday. After she came out
of fast meeting she was escorted by the sisters
to Brother and Sister William Gill’s, where a
sumptuous dinner was in waiting. About
thirty of the brethren and Bisters surrounded
the table, and were enabled to do ample justice
to the good things before them, having fasted
all the morning.
	The afternoon was spent in a very agreeable
manner. Bishop Ritchie made appropriate re-
marks, and gave much good instruction.
Others spoke of their long acquaintance with
Sister Bickington, and of her integrity and
good works, wishing her many happy returns
of her natal day. She was then presented
with many gifts as tokens of respect, to which
she replied with a short but affecting speech.
After singing, benediction was pronounced by
Bishop Ritchie, and all dispersed, leaving our
beloved Sister Bickington to enjoy herself, hav-
ing the satisfaction of knowing she was respect-
ed and beloved by all her acquaintances.
The EXPONENT is taken by a number of our
sisters, and is read with much interest; it is a
noble paper and is full of choice  reading, and
some of the wise, learned heads that have so
much to say about the down trodden women
of Utah would do well to read our little paper.
As for myself I prize it. The Scenes and In-
cidents in Nauvoo is the first thing I read; it
brings back so fresh to my own memory the
trials and persecutions of those days, for hav-
ing been identified with this Church from the
days of Kirtland, Ohio, to the present time,
and been a partaker in all its persecutions I can
testify to the truth of  many things contained
in that article; and in closing I bear my testi-
mony to the truth of this Gospel. It is of
God and will prevail. The wicked will not
have power to stop its progress, for they cannot
measure arms with the Almighty.
		Your sister in the Gospel,
						N.M. TRACY.


MORAL COURAGE.

	What is moral courage? Knowing what is
right and daring to do it in the face of all the
world, is what I call moral courage. And the


person who lacks this is lacking in that princi-
ple that makes the man or woman. For with-
out the courage to calmly pocket the sneers of
evil-doers we will never amount to anything.
The persons that can do this and remain true
to themselves have one of the noblest elements
of heroism.
	That independence based upon thoughtful-
ness is needed by the young people of to-day
more than anything else. We, as young people,
are not stern enough. We lack the moral
courage to say, no, in the proper time and
place. We are too easily influenced to do
what we know to be wrong. There are some
people who say and do (and I believe think)
as the majority, because they have not the cou-
rage to investigate for themselves. I have no
patience with such a class of beings. If we
are intelligent beings and have any brain, let
us use it, and by using it improve it; in short,
let us think and act for ourselves. We as indi-
viduals are held accountable for our acts and
doings (not the "majority"). Let us first find
out what is right and then have the moral cou-
rage to do it at all times and in all places, ir-
respective of the opinions of the "majority"
of the world.		CONSTANCE WILDWOOD.
	Nephi.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Lousia M. Alcott has in press with Roberts
Brothers "Jo's Boys and How they turned 
Out," the long-looked-for sequel to "Little
Men." It may be looked for early in 1884.

	"The sovereign people" have given their ver-
dict. Hereafter the present cheif magistrate
cannot exhibit the tanned skins of babies from
the Tewksbury almshouse. The Republicans
of Massachusetts have "saved the honor of the 
State. Amid the general rejoicing, it would
be out of place to recall the fact that not a 
mother in Massachusetts, from the tip of the
Cape to the Berkshire hills, has any legal con-
trol over the skins of her babies, whether those
babies are dead or alive. This trifle is to be
passed over now, as it has been for many a
year. Some time in the far future, when
women shall have importuned the "sovereign
people" sufficiently, some attention may be
given to this little matter; also to that other
fact, not worth naming in this important cam-
paign, viz.: that more than half the same adult
people are denied tehir right to vote. Mean-
time, "the honor of Massachusetts is safe." Is
it? And if the women have anything to com-
plain of, is it all their own fault? -- L.S.
Woman's Journal.

	BRAIN-WORK AND FOOD.-- The notion that
those who work only with their brain need less
than those who labor with their hands has
long been proved fallacious. Mental labor
causes greater waste of tissue than muscular.
According to careful estimates, three hours of
hard study wear out the body more than a 
whole day of hard physical exertion. "With-
out phosphorus, no thought, " is the German
saying; and the consumption of that essential
ingredient of the brain increases in proportion
to the amount of labor which this organ is re-
quired to perform. The wear and tear of the 
brain are easily measured by careful examina-
tions of the salts in the liquid excretions. The
importance of the brain as a working organ
is shown by the amount of blood it receives,
which is proportionately greater than that of
any other part of the body. One fifth of the
blood goes to the brain, though its average
weight is only one-fortieth of that of the body.
This fact alone would be sufficient to prove
that brain workers require more food, and even
better food, than mechanics or farm laborers,—
Boston Journal of Chemistry.


92	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates; Each square, ten lines  of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
					Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, NOVEMBER 15, 1883.


[Column 1]
WHAT THEY SAY.

	We publish in this issue of our paper some
extracts from the Cincinnati Enquirer" about
"Mormon women," as given in a lecture by
Mrs. Angie F. Newman, also a few items from
the lecture by another Gentile woman who was
in the audience, and who comments on the sub-
ject as well.
	The papers of Cincinnati announced that
Mrs. Newman, of Nebraska, was in the city,
and had spent much time in Utah and closely
studied the problem of Mormonism as it relates
to women, and so forth, and that it had been
proposed to call a meeting of the ladies of all
denominations to hear her speak. Mormon
women are fast becoming a popular subject for
lectures, and by such means the Gospel is being
proclaimed because it makes honest people anx-
ious to know "whether these things be so." It
is very annoying to be thus cruelly misrepre-
sented, but the women of this Church know
that the words of the Savior are true: "He that
would be godly in Christ Jesus must suffer per-
secution." The "Enquirer" said Mrs. Newman
was prepared to give much intelligent and re-
liable information on the subject of Mormon
women. Let us see. She tells her audience
she has held argumentative conversations with
Eliza R. Snow and other ladies. We would
be glad to know who they are, for Sister Eliza
R. Snow had never heard of her, nor any other
Mormon woman so far as we can learn. How-
ever, as Mrs. Newman has told the ladies of
Cincinnati so much about Utah, we feel called
upon to speak in defense of these women she
condemns, and the homes she represents as so
degraded.
	Milton said: "So Truth be in the field, let her
and Falsehood grapple," but as regards the
women of this Church, Truth is scarcely in the
field, considering how Falsehood has been
flaunting her banner in the wind of public opin-
ion. It is time Truth came forward to the res-
cue and threw down the gauntlet in defense of
her own honor. It has been said that there is
a time when forbearance ceases to be a virtue,
it seems to us there is now a time when silence
on the part of the women of Utah would be an
ignominious reproach.
	According to Mrs. Newman the women here
are not ALL fools, and it is highly proper for
them to express themselves on what is most em-
phatically their own question, and as the race
is not to the swift nor the battle to the strong,
it may yet follow that Mormon women can
maintain their own ground and vanquish the
enemy. For Truth will eventually prevail.
Quoting the speaker's words, "Every house is
a house of prostitution!" How any sane woman
dare make such an assertion seems incredible!

[Column 2]
This is too much! Mrs. Newman from her
own statement lived here for some time in this
hot bed of iniquity, and a great many other
Gentiles manage to exist among the "Mor-
mons," and to thrive and grow rich and exceed-
ingly prosperous. They visit in "Mormon"
houses, but they probably don't know that they
are such dens of infamy. Now that Mrs. New-
man has given such "reliable information" on
the subject all the Gentiles will run away im-
mediately, no doubt, for fear of being contami-
nated.
	Mrs. Newman's assertion that "a man may
take for his wives his mother, grand-mother, or
sister" is as false as it is cruel. To speak so
positive one should have the statement well au-
thenticated, but she heard it possibly from some
wicked, designing, malicious person, someone pre-
pared to say anything false to injure the Mor-
mons. Our Savior said: "Blessed are ye when
men shall revile you and persecute you, and say
all manner of evil against you, falsely, for my
name's sake, for great is your reward in heaven,
for so persecuted they the saints that were be-
fore you."
	Mormon women are not only virtuous, but
chaste. The principle of plural marriage
itself tends to the strictest chastity, and child-
ren born in this order of marriage will, from
ante-natal influences, be purer in character. To
enter upon an explanation of this principle and
its consequent results was not our object and
would make this article too lengthy, however
briefly dealt with, but suffice it to say, nowhere
on the earth exist purer women than right here
in Utah, those who have embraced this sacred
order of marriage the world is so ready to con-
demn. Mrs. Newman with all her pretensions
evidently knows nothing of Mormon women,
their homes or associations. She says "there is
no love, care or tenderness," nothing could be
more untrue. There are no stronger ties of af-
fection existing upon the earth than those
which bind together the families who live in
the order of celestial marriage. This intensity
of affection helps them to bear the scoffs and
reproaches heaped upon them by those who can-
not understand the position they occupy, nor
the motives which influence them, and they
find comfort and solace in the society of each
other which unites them in the strongest bonds
of human sympathy, and strengthens the so-
cial strata that the Gentiles such as Mrs. New-
man and others of her class are trying to break
down and destroy. "Money," she says, "is
what is needed, and needed at once." For what,
pray? Not for the "Mormons," they are abund-
antly able to feed, clothe and educate their own
children, and are in no need whatever of pecu-
niary help. When this people were driven from
their homes, destitute pilgrims, without shelter,
by mobs who threatened the lives of even aged
men and defenseless women and children, no
one offered them aid or protection, though many
hundreds perished in consequence of the priva-
tion and suffering they were compelled to en-
dure from the persecutions of their fellow citi-
zens in this boasted land of liberty. Now the
"Mormons" are prosperous, and they would
scorn the idea of receiving money gathered
from the people of the United States to educate
their children. What about the masses of un-
educated children growing up in the eastern
citses and towns without homes, without proper
food? We read in the Boston "Woman's Jour-
nal" this evening, that Chicago has 30,000 pau-
per, Cincinnati has no doubt a moderate pro-
portion, and Salt Lake City has none; the la-
dies who contributed so liberally at the close of
Mrs. Newman's lecture to the fund to educate
the children of the Mormons, who are already
well fed and housed, as well as taught, would do

[Column 3]
well to use the means to provide for the desti-
tute and homeless in their own proud city, or if
Foreign Missions are their grand ambition there
are plenty of barefooted, half-starved children
in Ireland, and in other lands across the sea,
who need their benevolence; as for the Latter-
day Saints they spurn such offerings. The treas-
ures of the earth and the riches of heaven are
for the Saints in the due time of the Lord, and
they have no fear. There is so much opposition
just now to the Latter-day work that one can
scarcely take up a magazine or newspaper with-
out seeing some extravagent article on the Mor-
mon problem, as it is very generally termed.
	Dio Lewis' Monthly for November contains
one of the most ridiculous we have seen, writ-
ten by Dora Darmore, (Mrs. A. J. Boyer) former-
ly editor of the Golden Dawn, in San Francisco.
The lady passed trhough here in the summer of
1881. We have seen one of the articles published
in a New York paper. She wants "an army of
moral, industrious, intelligent young men" sent
here to marry the bright Mormon girls. Now, as
there are many hundreds of bright Mormonboys
expecting to marry these Mormon girls what
will Dora Darmore do with them? They will
certainly be in the way of her pet scheme be-
ing carried out, for Mormon boys are not only
very bright, but physically strong and steadfast
in purpose, and they assuredly will not be inter-
fered with in this way, so her solution of the
problem will fail. The lady has credited the
writer with some things she did not say, but on
the whole it was so long ago she has probably
forgotten what sort of language was used on that
occasion. She alludes to the care-worn counte-
nances of the faces of women in the Tabernacle,
but forgets to tell us there are any unhappy
women in the world outside of Utah, but as
most Mormon women know plenty of unhappy
marraiges outside the pale of the Church they
know how much her words are worth. Mrs.
Boyer stayed a few days in Utah, and she had
very little opportunity of seeing or judging the
character or motives of Mormon men and women.
She says, "God help and pity the unhappy
women of Utah, for the men who own them,
body, and soul, have no pity." Now, if there
are anywhere women more happy in their home
with their domestic relations, more satisfied
withtheir surroundings than these women she
pities so, where are they? As for the help of
God, the Latter-day Saints have it, and expect
to while they are faithful in keeping His com-
mandments. As for men owning women, if
women are not free and independent here,
they are not anywhere, for there is more freedom
for women in the Gospel than in the laws of
men. Mormon women are not asking for pity
form any source, they simply want justice, no-
thing more. We do not expect the world to be-
lieve in celestial marriage, but to respect our
religious belief and accord us the right the Con-
stitution of the United States guarantees to all
its citizens, the freedom of religious liberty.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	IN the last number of the EXPONENT, in the
article entitled, "Scenes and incidents in Nau-
voo," where Mrs. Whitney speaks of her hus-
band and herself as being proud and high-mind-
ed, it is a mistake, and should read, "light-
minded."
	A LETTER from Sister Mary Ann Hyde, of
Spring City, Sanpete Co., states that the Re-
lief Society of Sanpete Stake will hold their
Quarterly Conference at Moroni, Saturday, Dec-
ember 15, commencing at 10 a. m. Sister Hyde's
friends will be pleased to learn that she has re-
covered from her injuries so far as to be able to 
walk around now with one crutch.


[Column 1]
	ON Monday, November 12th, Sister M. I.
Horne and E. S. Taylor went to Sandy to meet
with the Relief Society and Primary Associa-
tion. The meetings were held in the new meet-
ing house, and were very well attended. Bishop
Holman was present and made some excellent
remarks. Wagon loads of sisters came over
from Union to attend the meetings and receive
instructions.
	The annual meeting of the Relief Society con-
vened at 10 a.m., Mrs. Wilhelmina Olsen presid-
ing, and the Primary meeting was held at 2
p.m. Much interest was manifested by the sis-
ters in trying to improve and renew diligence
in their labors.
	ON Saturday, November 10, we had the pleas-
ure of attending the annual meeting of the Pri-
mary Association of the Eleventh Ward of this
City, Mrs. Louie Felt presiding. There were
over one hundred children present. After the
exercises, which consisted of singing and recit-
ing from the little ones, two essays and one or-
gan solo, and the answering of questions from
"Bible Questions and Answers," remarks were
made by some of the ladies who were present by
invitation, Sisters M. I. Horne, E. S. Taylor,
E. B. Wells and M. A. Freeze, the last named
speaker dwelling with special earnestness upon
the "Word of Wisdom." After the remarks
of the sisters one of the girls of the Association
stepped forward and preceded by a few words
the presentation of a very handsome plain gold
ring to Mrs. Felt, a tribute of affection from the
children under her care. Mrs. Felt responded
in rather a touching tone, evidently affected by
this expression of their love, and said the ring
resembled her love for the children, as it was
without end. One of the secretaries then read
some verses composed for the occasion. It is
very evident that Mrs. Felt and those associa-
ted with her in this most excellent work have
won the love of those under their care, which is
a great point gained. One of the best features of
this particular Association is that regularly pre-
vious to the opening prayer the president inquires
if they know of any sick to be prayed for. And
the children state if there are any, and especial-
ly any of the members, and they are prayed for
in faith, and very often the sick have been
healed, or if not healed, benefitted by these
humble petitions, to which the most fervent
amen from the children is added. After the
meeting adjourned refreshments were served to
all in the house. These little meetings for spir-
itual education should be encouraged by the
parents, and every opportunity given for the
cultivation of faith and the Holy Spirit.
	MISS KATE FIELD gave her "Musical Mono-
logue" in the Salt Lake Theatre, Monday even-
ing, November 5th, to a large and intelligent
audience. It was something entirely different
from entertainments generally, quite original in
style and exessively funny. It was full of wit
and sparkle, and merriment was the conse-
quence. Everybody laughed, they couldn't
help it, and wouldn't if they could. If a good
laugh is a good thing for the health, then Miss
Field must have done considerable towards im-
proving the condition of her audience. To enu-
merate all the good points and elaborate upon
the entertainment would take more ability than
we possess, but will say it was thoroughly enjoy-
able, especially "The silent song," the "Spanish
Muleteer's song," with castanets, the toast of
the Englishman at the dinner party, "The Ital-
ian Opera Burlesque," etc., etc. Miss Field is a
clever humorist, and one appreciates the fact
most emphatically when they listen to her Mu-
sical Monologue. She is quite deserving of all
the papers say in her praise. No doubt her
play presented some time ago in London was
full of good hits and thrusts, as the name would

[Column 2]
indicate, "Extremes Meet." Her book, "Ten
Days in Spain," is said to be a very entertaining
work, and judging of the lady as a humorist, and
seeing the comic side of absurd and ridiculous
things, and able to present them to the public
in the most happy fashion, we should conclude
her to be adept in the style of writing bril-
liant and amusing articles on all subjects. I
suppose she will at some future time not far dis-
tant give the public some of her experience in
the West, that will be quite equal in point of
merit, jest and wittisiam to the London inci-
dents and the burlesque of Italian opera. Miss
Field is prolonging her stay in Salt Lake con-
siderably, probably to gathermaterial for future
use, in the meantime it is to be hoped that the
lady and her sharp shrewdness will be able to
discern truth from error, and facts from fiction,
and not be prejudices in her views by those who
make it their business to cram tourists, espec-
ially editors and writers. We wish her a pleas-
ant and profitable stay in our mountain home,
and success and safety in her journeyings, and
prosperity in her efforts for progress in the right
direction.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LETTER FROM CINCINNATI.
DEAR EDITOR:
	I send you some clippings from the Cincinnati
Commercial Gazette, and Cincinnati Enquirer,
and take a few moments of time from press-
ing duties at home and beside my mother's
sick bed to write to you concerning the lecture
of Mrs. Newman.
	"Mrs. Angie F. Newman, of Nebraska, is in
the city, and the guest of Mrs. Dr. R. H. Rust.
Mrs. Newman is deeply interested in all that
concerns the welfare of her own sex in physical,
social, and religious life. She has spent much
time in Utah, not only exhibiting a substantial
sympathy for the cause of Home Missions, but
has closely studied the problem of Mormonism,
as it relates to women, in its uses and abuses,
and is prepared to give much intelligent and re-
liable information on the subject. It has been
proposed to call a meeting, to be composed
strictly of the ladies of all denominations of the
city and suburbs, to be held on Monday next at
2:30 pm, at St. Paul M. E. Church, to meet
Mrs. Newman and hear an address. The lady,
who is said to be a very talented and attractive
speaker, is en route for the National Convention
of the W. C. T. U., at Detroit, and has consent-
ed to remain in the city for the benefit of those
who may wish to meet her.
	"The picture of Mormonism in its relation to
the classes of women are both startling and
painful. The stronghold of their system resides
in three dominant features: their missionary or-
ganizations, financial and ecclesiastical systems.
Every man, woman and child is required to
give one-tenth of everything they possess in
money and goods, and this brings in the im-
mense revenue of $1,097,000 per annum. Sever-
al hundred missionaries are employed continu-
ally, and it is expected to make two thousand
converts a year. In proselyting, the subject of
polygamy is never mentioned, but there is pre-
sented a pure organization of the "Latter-day
Saints.” They entrench themselves behind the
Christian's Bible, claiming that Jesus was the
founder of their system.
	"Among the civil features is the enfranchise-
ment of women, which is used to justify their
position and give the balance of power, and
every woman's vote serves to tighten the chains
of their degradation and bitter bondage. Women
are graded according to their capacity to work,
and children are loveless, deformed and a blank.
EVERY HOUSE IS A HOUSE OF PROSTITUTION. A
man may take for his wives his mother, grand-
mother and sister, and the presentation of their
teachings and its effects on their lives is such as
can scarcely be made in words. The basis of
their religion is polygamy, and woman's highest
office to reproduce the species. There is no love,
care or tenderness.
	"Mrs. Newman then spoke of the good im-
pressions made by the Home Missionary Socie-
ty in Utah. Hundreds of Mormon children at-
tend the Christian schools, which are the hope
of the country, and hundreds more would apos-
tatize did they dare,and a shelter were provided,
the speaker added,with much emphasis,“Ladies,
your societies are too parsimonious in paying
salaries to preachers and teachers who exhaust
all their sympathies and energies, and then
have to leave lest they starve. Money is what
is needed, and needed at once.” The most ab-
sorbed attention was elicited, and a generous
contribution given at the close of the service.”
	I went in to hear what she would have to say
on the interesting subject of Mormonism, and
will tell you that the report In the Commercial
Gazette of the speech, is correct as far as it goes.
But the reporter forgot to mention that Mrs.
Newman said of Eliza R. Snow and other ladies
there, with whom she had held argumentative
conversations for hours at a time, and then ac-
knowledged to herself that she had made no
headway at all towards upsetting the Scriptur-
al arguments they brought forward in proof of
Mormonism, that they were earnest, intelligent
and very superior women.
	That what Mrs. Newman said against Mor-
monism was in the words of a Mr. Bates; re-
peating word for word the article I sent to you:
once from the California paper. She also re-
ferred to Mrs. Stenhouse.
	Perhaps I expected too much from one who
had seen the evils of Mormonism, or I was preju-
diced, in your favor, beforehand, but I really did
not think that Mrs. Newman proved very much
against you though she is a good speaker and
seemed in earnest.
	Once I thought her arguments contradictory.
She said: "Home is a word not known in Mor-
monism; they have no homes, only kennels for
reproduction.” Then afterwards she said:
"These new converts brought from foreign
countries, many of them young girls, seeing the
Mormons in their thrifty, pleasant homes, imag-
ine that there could be no happier life than to
be one of the wives of these men, and to reign
with them as queens in paradise would be the
highest bliss; but they awaken from their
imaginative dreams in bondage, soul and
body.”
	Mrs. Newman, belonging to the upper, and
called, by her duties, to the lower strata of socie-
ty, must acknowledge that in her observations
of the rules and regulations of both, even out-
side of Mormonism, the same thing is true of
young girls and the married state. They never
learn the geography of the state well until they
get into it, then generally find that they have
traveled downward when they thought they
were going north, that the capital is Selfishness,
located on the river Lust, instead of Bliss on the 
Paradise river. Her observations certainly tell
her "in mournful numbers,'
	"That marriage bliss is mostly an empty dream,
	And things are not what they seem."
	I looked about me, before the lecture began,
and saw some familiar faces, and thought, how
well sealskin sacques and paisley shawls cover
hearts full of bitterness; I knew that some came
there because they must interest themselves in
something to take their minds off domestic trou-
ble, or go mad. And their goodness of heart
leads them into missionary work and keeps them
from taking opium or liquor to silence the cries
of their anguished souls.
	I am glad that Mrs. Newman spoke to the
ladies of Cincinnati; the subject of marriage, in
all its phases, it an important and interesting
one, and ever will be.
	As in agriculture—in fact in all nature there
is a constant demand for changes—the old stock
degenerates unless grafting, budding, and cross-
ing are scientifically attended to, so it may be
in social life. At any rate, Mrs. Newman, the
Mormons and others do well to stir and irrigate
the soil, scatter new seed; if the counsel and
the work be of man it will come to nought, but
if it be of God it will be established in due time
and cannot be overthrown.	EMILY SCOTT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WHAT IS LIFE?
				-------
	What is life, is it all sunshine, is there any
who can say, "I know no sorrow?" Some live
to dress, eat, drink and be merry, but life to us
would be dreary with doubts of an eternity.
Some may possess wealth, yet it cannot keep
the loved ones from the grave, or make children
loving and obedient, or dispel the dark clouds
that are destined to pass over their horizon. If
wealth will not fill our lives with sunshine then
should we murmer at our lot? Should we sigh
for that we cannot get, and fill our lives with
discontent, and employ all our time and talents
in following the prevailing fashion, and let our
hearts grow full of pride and vanity, and for-
get what life is for? No! Life is a school, as
many express it. Then let us try with as much
energy as if we were studying to get an educa-
tion, try to train ourselves in the fear and ad-
monition of the Lord. If there is anyting
that will bring us life eternal, and make this
life pleasant, it is the Gospel; wealth cannot
purchase it, yet it is within the reach of all.
Life is too short to be wasted in frivolity. We
should improve our time while we do live, and
do all the good we can, for if we waste our time
and talents we will regret it in the life to come.
Life is a stage, and men and women are actors
on it, says Shakespeare, and when we pass off
from this stage of action, we will appear on an-
other; and happy shall we be if we have per-
formed our part well while here. May the
Lord help us so to do. Amen.           D.C.
	Springville, 1833


[Column 1]

R S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS. 

PRESTON, BEAR LAKE STAKE. 
EDITOR EXPONET: 
	The Stake Presidency of Primaries, Sister
Annie Laker and Counselor, visited us March
6th. 1883, and organized a Primary Associa-
tion, which has generally been very well at-
tended. Sister Eliza Dalrymple acts as presi-
dent, and performs her duties to the satisfaction
of all concerned. We have thirty-one mem-
bers in our Association, officers included; aver-
age attendance nineteen. Our Relief Society
was organized March 12th, 1883, assisted by
Stake President, Julia P. Lindsay, and coun-
selors. Sister Martha Dalrymple acts as presi-
dent and is doing her duty as far as possible
with so few to assist in the work. We have
only ten members here now, several having left
here, but hope to be able even with this small
number to accomplish a work that will be ac-
ceptable before the Lord. With respect and
love for the noble women of Utah, we remain
the friends of truth and right. 
		AMANDA DALYMPLE, Secretary.
			NEPHI, JUAB STAKE.
	On the 22nd of September, 1883, at ten
o'clock a.m., the Juab Stake organization of
Relief Society held their 22nd Quarterly Con-
ference in the Nephi Meeting house, Mrs.
Elizabeth Kendall presiding. Present on the
stand, of the brethren, President Paxman and
Counselors, Bishops Warner and Udall, Patri-
arch J. G. Bigler, and Elder George Kendall;
of the sisters, E. B. Wells and H. M. Whitney
from Salt Lake City, the stake and branch
officers of Nephi, and others. After the open-
ing exercises and reading the minutes of last
conference President Kendall called upon
Branch President Pitchforth to represent the
Nephi branch, which she did, showing it was
in good condition, after which President E.
Kendall and J. Picton, in their usual kind
and motherly manner, made a few remarks
and gave good counsel to those present; felt
proud of their associations with the Relief
Society; spoke in praise of the teachers and

[Column 2]
members of our society. Was very pleased to
have our highly esteemed sisters with us from
Salt Lake City; did not wish to take up the
time as all were anxious to hear from them.
	President Kendall then introduced Sister
Wells, who made a few remarks. Said the
Relief Societies had made a great improve-
ment in our sisters, that they were better
women, better wives, and better mothers than
they would have been without these blessed
opportunities for development. That they are
so engaged in the good work that they do not
think half as much about the little trials they
have to pass through, but were seeking to bless
and comfort each other, and to do good to all
humanity.
	President Kendall then introduced Sister
Whitney, who said she was proud of her asso-
ciations with the sisters; was very pleased with
the singing, and also to come to Nephi.
Thought the hand of Providence overruled her
coming here. Said she was her Father's hand-
maid and was on hand to do her duty when-
ever it was made known to her. Spoke on Ce-
lestial Marraige, and how she had been greatly
blessed by advocating that principle. Made
many excellent remarks, and gave much good
advice to mothers.
	After singing conference adjourned till 2
p.m. Benediction by President Joel Grover.
	At 2 p.m. conference was continued accord-
ing to adjournment. After singing and prayer
President Kendall reported the condition of
the Mona Ward, which was good (the Presi-
dent of that branch being absent on account
of sickness). President Serena Aagaard re-
ported the Levan Ward as being united and
striving to do their duty in all things.
	Prest. Wm. Paxman was the next speaker.
Spoke of our late President, Amelia Golds-
brough, of her faithfulness, and of the able 
support of her counselors, Elizabeth Kendall
and Jane Picton, that on account of her death
it was necessary to have a reorganization. That
himself and counselors had talked the matter
over and had selected the following names for
officers: Mary Pitchforth, Stake President;
Amy Bigler and Nicolena Brown, Counselors;
Mary Hoyt, Secretary; Thirza M. Vickers,
Treasurer, who were all unanimously sus-
tained. Branch officers: Miranda Bryan, Pres-
ident of Nephi Ward; Rebecca Udall and Ann
Midgley, Counselors; Matilda E. Teasdale,
Secretary, Hannah Grover Assistant Secre-
tary; Charlotte Evans, Treasurer; and Julia
Bryan, Assistant Treasurer, unanimously sus-
tained. Levan and Mona officers sustained as
they were already organized.
	The balance of the time was taken up by 
excellent and appropriate remarks from Prest.
Kendall, Sisters Hannah Grover, Miranda
Bryan, H.M. Whitney and E. B. Wells.
	Prest. Paxman made a few closing remarks;
felt well pleased with the exercises of the day,
but felt that we had too little time to say all
the good things that were necessary.
	It was moved and carried that a vote of
thanks be returned to Sisters E. Kendall and
J. Picton for their faithful labors in the Re-
lief Society.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Benediction by Patriarch J. G. Bigler.
		MARY PITCHFORTH, President.
	AMY L. BIGLER, Acting Secretary.
		    FERRON CITY, EMERY CO.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I deem it a pleasure to have the privilege
of mingling my voice with my beloved sisters
in the EXPONENT, though we are far off in
this vicinity, seemingly away from the society
of our highly esteemed sisters who dwell in the
northern part of this territory, notwithstand-
ing this, we feel that we are greatly blessed of
the Lord, not forgetting to thank Him for His
many blessings toward us. 

[Column 3]
Our Relief Society was organized December
10th, 1882, assisted by our beloved President, 
Annie Larsen, and her Counselors. Sister
Mary Olsen was elected President, with Sisters
Eunice Molen and Dinah Wridgley as her
Counselors; Sister Hannah E. Stevens, Secre-
tary; Sister Hannah Henry, Treasurer. Since
that time we have been striving to do our du-
ty to the best of our ability, as a Society; we
hold our meetings monthly, and they are pret-
ty well attended, considering our scattered
condition; we have twenty names enrolled;
most of these sisters are striving to do their du-
ty as far as they know and understand. We
feel to uphold and sustain our president and
counselors in all their works and ways, for we
feel that they are chosen of the Lord to take
charge of the society here in this vicinity,
therefore, in order to be united we must love
and respect them, for the Lord says if ye are
not one ye are not mine. We have a desire
to do all we can for the advancement of His
Kingdom and for the building of Temples in 
which we can receive ordinances necessary for
our progression, and all other blessings which
the Lord has promised to the faithful.
	Ever wishing to be one with my co-workers
in the Gospel of Christ, as ever your sisters,
			      HANNAH E. STEVENS, 
			Secretary R. S.
		SPRING CITY, SANPETE STAKE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of Sanpete held their
Quarterly Conference at Mt. Pleasant, Septem-
ber 15th, President M. A. P. Hyde presiding,
The usual devotional exercises were rendered,
after which the minutes of the previous confer-
ence were read, also the statistical and finan-
cial reports. There presidents who were there
gave verbal reports each of her respective
ward. 
	The President, Mrs. M. A. P. Hyde, made a
few remarks, giving an account of her labors
and experience while in the St. George Temple,
also of the accident she met with while in St. 
George, which had caused her absence so
long.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young addressed the con-
gregation upon the duties of wives and
mothers, also on the necessity of the sisters un-
derstanding politics and government, that we
might know and understand our rights. Re-
ferred to the Primary Association work said it
was an apostolic work, and should be consid-
ered as such; mothers should not neglect to up-
hold the sisters who labor in the Primary.
	Sister Horne addressed the audiance, speak-
ing of the necessity of mothers realizing their
positions and learning to think and decide for
themselves; said if mothers realized that they
were bringing forth spirits from God not one
child would grow up to apostatize. Mothers
should live near to God, avail themselves of
the privilege of receiving knowledge from
Him, keep their nature in subjection to His
laws and commandments.
	President Peterson spoke of the importance
of looking after the dead, and of drawing near
to God; said that if we were not drawing nearer
we were certainly drawing farther away from
Him. Spoke of the factory, and the necessity
of being prepared to sustain ourselves, as we
would need factorios and the grain the sisters
have been storing for several years, before
twenty years, as Babylon will fall. Said the
young men and women should take an interest
in learning different trades, as these occupa-
tions will be necessary.
	Sister Hyde felt impressed to speak in
tongues, which she did, Sis ter Young interpre-
ting. 
	Singing by choir. Benediction by Bishop
Andersen. Conference adjourned, to be held
at Moroni, Dec. 15, 1883.
		FANNY KOFFORD, Secretary R. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]		
		PRIMARY MEETING.
	Primary Semi-Annual Meeting of the 20th
Ward convened on Friday, Oct. 26th. Present
on the stand, President Toone, Sisters E. S.
Clawson, L. Felt, Presendia Kimball, Fanny
Thatcher, E. B. Ferguson, Sister Mary Davis
of the 21st Ward, and Bro. T. B. Lewis.
	Exercises commenced by singing, "Love at
Home."
	Minutes read by Secretary. Essay on the
benefits of the Primary Associations, by E.
Salmon; Bible verses, recited by Frank Lewis;
Reading by Miss Lucy Savage; Recitiation by
Kate Sansom, a little toddler of three years;
Song by L. Sansom; Dialogue by Alice and
Lizzie Tibbins; Recitation from Rosie Romney;
Essay by Flora Phillips; Song by Lennie Sav-
age and Alice Clowes; Recitation by Josie Sim-
mons; Recitation by Nellie Lewis; Dialogue,
Lawrence Romney and Frank Pusey; Recita-
tion from Kate Romney; Duet by Emily Sharp
and E. Clowes; Recitation from Lily and Maud
Patten; Reading from George Ewing; Recita-
tion by Lucy Wright; Song by Ida Savage
and Ida Sansom; Essay by Georgina Toone
Recitation by Hugh Stainsburg; Dialogue by
Alice and Flora Reynolds; Recitation, Albert
Romney; Recitation, Maude Lewis; Recita-
tion, Paul Culmer; Song, Della Daynes; Reci-
tation, Isabel Romney; Dialogue, Mary Smalie
and E. Johnson; Recitation, Beatie Fowler;
Song, Martha Angell; Reading by Willard Pe-
tersen closed the exercises.
	Sister Louie Felt said that she had had a
rich treat; was glad to see so much improve-
ment, though at the last anniversary she
thought there could be no improvement; spoke
to the boys about missions; prayed that God
would bless them all.
	Sister Ellen Clawson felt as Sister Felt had
said, that every thing was so well done that it
seemed hardly possible to improve. Spoke of
the word of wisdom and hoped all the child-
ren would keep it and all the commandments
of God.
	Brother T. B. Lewis thought these anniver-
saries were the most pleasant part of the P. A's.
The children like them, the President likes
them, and your friends who visit you like
them. But if you want to make these anni-
versaries a success, you must attend punctual-
ly all your weekly meetings. Hoped the boys
and girls would be put into practice the lessons
taught in the pieces recited and do what is
right because it is right. Spoke about diph-
theria, and begged the children not to get
scared, but to attend to their duties and leave
the result to God.
	Sister Presendia Kimball felt so thankful to
meet with the dear children again; hoped they
would remember what Brother Lewis had said
and keep the laws of God and they should
grow up mighty men and women of God.
	Bro. Romney thought the children would
rather have the cake and candy than hear him
speak. Prayed for a blessings on those who
felt interested in the P. A.
	Bro. Levi Richards felt pleasure in meeting
with the children, and prayed for a blessing on
all.
	Sister Davis spoke a short time; hoped the
children would remember that God saw them
at all times.
	Sister Ferguson spoke to the children on
health and the care of their bodies while there
is so much sickness.
	Sister Toone hoped the mothers would more
frequently attend the weekly meetings. Asked
the children to thank the brethren and sisters
for their presence and invited them to come
again.
	A vote of thanks was tendered to Sister
Kate Romney for her services at the organ.
	Conference adjourned for six months, until
[column 2]
April 19th, 1884. Children sang, "I'm not too
young for God to see." Benediction by Bro.
Romney. Cakes and candy were then distrib-
uted to the children, and they were then dis-
missed. 					E. B. FERGUSON.


CORRESPONDENCE.
MESA CITY, ARIZONA.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It is so seldom the good people of our isolated little
city find themselves represented in your valuable paper,
I take the liberty of forwarding you a few items. The
heat of summer is over, and we are now enjoying the
most delightful weather imaginable. But we have
found to our cost that the excessive heat and accom-
panying disadvantages of the summer season, that we
have to endure in this southern climate, are not the
greatest evils in the world. That dreadful disease, small-
pox, made its appearance in our usually healthy city
over two months ago; and although we are now free
from the disease itself, it has left foot-prints of sorrow
in a great many hearts; and right here our much abused
warm weather has proven to be our best friend, as there
is no telling where our troubles might have ended if we
had had cold weather to contend with. We have had
forty-two cases in all, and eight deaths. Quite a num-
ber were only varioloid, while nearly one third were of
the very worst type, and believed by some of our Ari-
zona physicians to be closely related to the black small-
pox. Our death rate has been very low in comparison
to other places where the malady has raged, especially
at Phenix, where they have lost nearly two thirds of
their whole number of cases; for although they have a
good hospital and excellent nurses, they lack what we,
as Latter-day Saints, prize above their learned phsyic-
ians, namely, faith in God and the administration of
His servants. We have had some examples of heroism
among our people hero that are worthy of record.
History records the deeds of many brave men and
women facing death for home and country, but who
would not choose death at the cannon’s mouth rather
than a lingering, horrible death by small-pox.
The county offered to furnish nurses, if more were
needed than could be obtained here, but our people felt
rather to trust themselves in the hands of the Lord
than outside nurses, and in consequence quite a number
entered the hospital without being protected by pre-
viously having had the disease. Sister Eliza Stewart
was one of the first to sacrifice herself at the shrine of
motherly affection, being unwilling to allow her daugh-
ter Estella, aged 16, who had contracted the disease,
to pass from under her care. She remained with her and
both subsequently  died, leaving the home circle doubly
sorrowful. Both were faithful Latter-day Saints, and
are greatly regretted by the entire community.
Another case I mnst mention, Sister Susan Savage
left her home and children at the call of suffering hu-
manity, without even the protection of vaccination, but
armed with her faith in God and her religion, and with
promises made to those that keep the word or wisdom. 
In due time she came down with the disease in its worst 
form, and although to all human appearances she had
no chance for life, through the prayers and fasting of
her brethren and sisters, and her own faith and good
care she came off victorious, and now bears her testi-
mony to the comforter that was with her during her en-
tire sickness, in opposition to the evil spirits that
sought her destruction.
Other cases I might mention, but my letter is getting
too lengthy. We feel to thank the Lord that he has
been so merciful to us as he has, and appreciate our
numerous blessings more than ever. The welcome
ringing of our meeting house bell is again heard in our
midst, our Mutual Improvement and Primary Associa-
tions will soon be in active operation, and a spirit of
animation and cheerfulness is rapidly taking the place
of the horror and gloom of our small-pox siege.
With good wishes for the welfare of the Exponent, I
remain your sister in the Gospel,	
Zulie P. Kimball
Oct. 21st, 1833.	
BURNHAM, SAN JUAN, NEW MEXICO.	
Editor Exponent;
Dear sister, some time has elapsed since I have taken
up my pen to write a line for our dear little paper, and
even now my heart is so sad I scarcely feel able to do
so. Such very sad news has reached us from the Salt
River County. Two dear sisters and one little nephew
and my stepmother have all suddenly died with that
terrible scourge, the smallpox.
Mrs. Caroline Matilda Taylor, daughter of Alvin F.
and Camera Stewart, died Sept. 4th, 1883, at Phoenix.
She was in her twenty-ninth year. Her little son,
Keith Stewart, died a short time before. It is possible
Mrs. Taylor might have lived had she not been railed to
part with her child, but this trial and the fierceness of
her disease was more than that widowed heart could
bear. An hour or so before death her reason returned,
and she called for pen and paper, and wrote a request
for her brother to take care of her two little ones she
was about to leave without father or mother.
Camera Estella Stewart died Sept. 5th, at Mesa City,
aged fifteen years and one month. She was the daugh-
ter of Alvin P. and Eliza Stewart.
Mrs. Eliza Barnett Stewart, wife of Alvin F. Stewart
and daughter of John and Eliza Barnett, died Sept. 19th,
1883, at Mesa City, aged thirty-six years and a few days.
Farewell, dear ones, for awhile. Oh, how I had
longed to see your dear faces once more on earth: lonely
and isolated as we are the thought that you, my sweet
sister, might yet be near me has been such a comfort.
God bless and strengthen my poor father in this his
hour of trial. He, too, has just been at death’s door,
but was spared to remain with the little ones now left
motherless.
It is the Sabbath day, and I am alone. The littla-
ones are at play, baby is sleeping in his cradle. It is
but one short year since we laid his mother in the silent
grave, but his sweet baby heart knows no sorrow over
it. "We that have tasted so deeply from the bitter cup,
oh, how would we keep it from these innocent lips if we
could, but, alas, we cannot only for a short time. Our
Heavenly Father knoweth all things and doeth all
all for the secret good of His children, and in wisdom
has designed that all should taste of the bitter that
they might truly appreciate the sweet. We often
think that some have no crosses to bear, yet we cannot
always read the human heart, and each one realizes its
own burdens, and a stranger cannot understand them.
It is so sad to lay our friends away when we have done
all that skill and love could devise, but when we can
only hear they have died among strangers, without one
dear one to sooth their last moments, or a loving hand
to close the eyes whose depths we love to gaze into so
well, it is sadder still, and we then learn to appreciate
the privilege of caring for the dear ones to the last. If
our trials will purify us and cleans us from dross we
will not complain. We must be trying to live worthy,
so that at any time we are called we will be joyfully
greeted on the other side by the dear ones we now feel
so sadly at being separated from. God comfort all who
are called to mourn among the Saints, and give us
faith and light to live above the trials in life. is the
prayer of your sister,
Mary Stewart Burnham.


IN MEMORIAN.

ANOTHER FAITHFUL ONE DEPARTED.

 DIED, at Logan, October 21st, 1883, Sister Ann H.
Davis, wife of David W. Davis. Deceased was born at
Pendaren, South Wales, 5th of March, 1823; was
baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints January 1849; emigrated to Utah 1854; moved
from Bountiful, Davis County, to Logan at its early
settlement in 1859. Although disabled in her limbs
she was always an active worker in the Relief Society
in the ward she lived in from its organization, and al-
ways ready to assist the sick and afflicted in time of
need. A faithful wife and mother in all the trials
and privations of the early settlement of this valley,
and to her death a faithful Latter-day Saint. She was
never known to complain of her situation in life, al-
though her family were depending, to a great extent,
upon her industry with her needle, yet like a true Saint
she would lay aside her own work and attend to that of
the Relief Society, which she did for many years. Sister
Davis was greatly loved by all who knew her.
	Her funeral was attended by a large number of friends
and acquaintances. Although the Relief Society has
suffered a great loss, yet it is her gain, for she fought a
good fight and kept the faith.
Sister Davis leaves a husband, three daughters and eight 
grandchildren, also a large number of friends to mourn
her loss.				CATHERINE WATTERSON.
								President R.S.
	3rd Ward, Logan, Oct. 25th, 1883.


WOMAN’S	EXPONENT.


Yes, another has gone homeward;
	There were ties to keep her here;
With our love we would have held her,
	But the Master was so dear
That she could but heed His whisper
	As it thrilled her in the night,
Calling her to higher service
	In the land of love and light.

Oh! the hearth is poor and empty;
	None can fill that vacant place;
But we think of all her rapture
	When she saw the Savior's face.
Could she stay for eyes beseeching?
	Could she heed the hindering hands?
Jesus called, and now the servant
	By her Royal Master stands.

We have lost a standard bearer,
	Who was foremost in the fight;
True and tender, brave and loving,
	With a heart that loved the right.
But while we are weeping for her,
	She the crown of life has won;
he is resting by the river
	And has heard the words, "Well done."

And the heavens that are so wealthy
	With our dear ones gone before,
Shall be nearer, and yet dearer
	To our hearts for evermore,
Till we hear the Father's summons
	To come hither, and we go
Where all life is love and rapture,
	Where there is no death or woe.
						SARAH J. TARBET.

	It is with a feeling of regret that we are called upon
to record the death of Sister Jennette Rollins. She was
born April 9th, 1860, and died at her father's residence,
Bishop James McKnight, in Minersville, Beaver County,
Oct. 25th, 1883.
	Deceased had been residing at the Cave Mine during
the summer, and was moving home; her little brother
was driving the team, the horses became frightened and
were unmanagagble; she was thrown on to a rack stake,
which penetrated her right leg above the knee, and
came out  her thigh; after six days of intense suffereing
she expired leaving three small children, father,
brothers, sister and a large circle of relatives and friends
to mourn her loss.
	Whereas, God has seen fit to call from our midst our
sister, who was greatly loved and respected by all for
her virtuous, true and noble character, and her faithful
and untiring labors in the Y.L.M.I Association.
	Therefore, be it resolved, that we, the members of 
the Y.L.M.I.A. of Minersville Ward, do deeply
mourn the loss of our beloved sister, Jennette Rollins
and that we condole with her children, father and rela-
tives in their great loss.
	Resolved, that these resolutions be spread upon our
records, and that a copy be presented to the bereaved
family, also a copy be sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
for publication.    (Signed)
				LYDIA BLACKBURN, President.
				IDA HAMBLIN, Secretary.


OBITUARY

	DIED, at Centerville, Oct. 13th, 1883, of general debil-
ity, in the 79th year of her age, Ann, wife of John Hol-
land, daughter of John and Sarah Rennall. Deceased
was born in Maldon, Essex, England, Aug, 4th, 1805;
was baptized into the Church of Jesus of Latter-day
Saints June 13th, 1852; emigrated to Utah with her hus-
band and family, and arrived in Salt Lake City Sep. 2nd,
1860. The following spring moved to Centreville, where
she resided till her death. She was for years a teacher
in the Relief Society; she early learned and observed
the Mormon Creed, and died as she had lived, an exem-
plary Latter-day Saint.
	In the silent tomb she's gone to rest,
		Till the righteous dead in glory rise,
	The pure, the meek, the good, the blest,
		To meet her Savior in the skies.	COM.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Mrs. Frances D. Gage completed her 75th
birthday on Friday, the 12, ult.


Mrs. Mary A. Livermore has in press with
Lee & Shepard, her lectures, "What shall
we do with our Daughters?" "Superfluous
Women," and other lectures.
	"Sorosis held their first social meeting of the
season at Delmonico's, on the 1st Oct. Lunch
was served at one o'clock. The question for
discussion was:
	Resolved, That it is more philanthropic to
provide children of the poor instruction in in-
dustrial arts than in the higher branches of
the schools.
	Papers were read by Rev. Phoebe Hanaford,
Mrs. Esther Herman and Mrs. Meredith. The
discussion was lively. They, had also some
very fine recitations and music."
	At a meeting of the Executive Council in
Boston, Mass., October 16th, the Governor
took the ground that a woman was not a per-
son by declaring the place occupied by Mrs.
Clara T. Leonard vacant in the Board of
Health, Lunacy and Charity, amd made a
nomination for the vacancy. The correctness
of the ground the Governor has taken
in this matter will not be admitted, even
by all the parties interested, and it will no
doubt cause this question which has before
been agitated in divers places and in relation
to important matters, to come before the pub-
lic for discussion. We hope to hear more
about this matter which is of vital importance
to all women. If a woman is not a person,
what is she? What are her claims? I sup-
pose this great and wise man considers woman
a creature. We shall see what will come of
this controversy. Some wonderful enlighten-
ment no doubt.


[Column 1]
ELLEN B. FURGUSON,
PYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
Office and Residence on 2d South between 3d.
and 4d East Streets.

Special Study has been give to SURGERY, DISEASES
OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the 
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS
	Can be Called by Telephone Day or Night.

For Sale at this Office.
BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.
PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2	25c. per copy.
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,	40c.	"
POEMS, by E.R. Snow, Vol. 1,	-	$1.00 "
"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
	of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
bound in cloth, $1.25, in morroco, -	1.50	"

MRS. ELLIS R SHIPP, M.D.
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
Office and residence, South Temple Street, one
block and a half west of the Valley House.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO 
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns, Wool Batting,
Shawls,	Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linsoys,	Cassalmere,	Washboards,
Jeans,	Tweeds,	Brubee, Etc., Etc.

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M.D.
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Offic and Residence.

[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z.C.M.I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.

H.S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

[Drawing of building with WALLPAPER, DINWOODEY, FURNITURE, UPHOLSTERY, H. DINWOODEY'S, FURNITURE written on building]

HENRY DINWOODEY.

FURNITURE;
WALL PAPER,
CARPETS,
FEATHERS. LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUINS
AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY.

[large F on left side]

Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods.
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 12.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1883.	NO. 13.


FIGHTING THE BATTLE.

Pitiful, pitiful 'tis to see
	Our friends 'twixt poverty's "millstones" ground
Ring out an anthem of jubilee,
	When instead of fallen and crushed, they're found
Fighting the battle 'gainst "hard, hard times,"
	Vanquishing fairly so fierce a foe;
Strengthen the toiler who bravely climbs
	Ahead of despondency, want and woe.

Pitiful, pitiful 'tis as true
	The weak by the mighty are trampled down,
But yet there are worthies, a noble few,
	Heedless of profit or fair renown
Fighting the battle 'gainst monstrous wrongs,
	Steadily striving "the point" to gain;
Gladden such workers with cheerful songs,
	Lean to the lowly and blessings obtain.

Pitiful, pitiful 'tis to know
	For right and freedom the best have died;
But the ashes of martyrs revive and glow;
	The apostles of progress are scattered wide,
Fighting the battle 'gainst iron creeds,
	Clearing the vision of souls so blind,
Uphold the preacher who sows the seeds
	Of truth in the hungry immortal mind.

Oh, more than pitiful 'tis how fast
	Troubles and evils do start and grow,
Fearful the shadows they o'er us cast,
	But oh, there are many we're proud to know
Fighting the battle 'gainst grevious woes,
	Pushing their purpose with mind and might;
Honor the hero whose telling blows
	Count in the contest for aught that is right.

	EMILY H WOODMANSEE.
Salt Lake City.


[Column 1]
FRAGMENTS OF EPISTOLARY
CORRESPONDENCE.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	Many thanks, dear madame, for your kind
and prompt response to my letter; I will en-
deavor to answer it seriatim.
	I am pleased to take the place you have so
kindly allotted me, as one of the "beads" on
your "rosary;" which you keep "proudly and
lovingly by your side"—I fully realize the
truth of your remarks that women should draw
nearer to each other, and I have long been
convinced that it is cultivated souls that most
easily amalgamate, and the genial soul discov-
ers its congenial affinity, even in the dark.
This assertion I could readily elaborate, but
must not be too prolix, and the fact is patent;
a large heart and a broad brain are necessary
to form and cement that friendship which is
organized with the spirit, and with the under-
standing. The training of woman has been
and still is so defective; their schools need to
be sent to school that they may cease to mar
what God and some earthly parentage have of-
ten made so beautiful! Poor woman! I have
at this moment an "open vision" of the gener-
al teaching of girls from infancy upwards, and
I feel it marvelous that they are as good as
they are. God is at the helm and save the
frail human bark from "breakers" in a thou-
sand instances.
	How you express my own sensations when
you tell me yours. Your pride when you read
a noble article from the pen of a woman. I
read on and what an echo I hear in my heart
to your truthful workds. I can by rejoice
at your remark that my letter "coming before
breakfast gave you a pleasant beginning for

[Column 2]
the new day"—may I ever give you this pleas-
ure when you read my letters.
	Oh, no, dear lady, there is "no antagonism 
between us on account of religion," we will 
not even name that unless en passant, or you 
make an inquiry about it, and then you will 
find mine "the pen of a ready writer," for on 
that subject I am always "at home;" I am like 
you in respect of searching for truth, the 
hand-maid of God; and I want to behold  her 
in her subline nudity as she came from the 
courts of heaven; I want no tinsel of the world 
to garble her chaste and beautiful form, and 
may my eyes ever be pure and clear enough to 
behold and appreciate her. You speak of the 
opinions and the judgements by which you are 
surrounded. Let me say, the day of judgement is 
still in the future, though many presume to 
usurp the seat; as a people we should say with 
David in an hour of trial, "Let me fall into the 
hands of God, and not into the hands of man." 
	Your following remarks upon the different 
religions having a field for action allowed them,
is just; most righteous would it be that the L. 
D. S. have this same field of free action that 
they may develop themselves. Permit me to
say you are in error in speaking of the 
"corruptions," et. cetera. In the principles of 
our church there are no "corruptions," they 
are perfect, becaus God-given and not the 
work of man. Whatever is wrong among its 
members is their own work, and for that they 
must be responsible; it requires a very pure,
unselfish, broad-souled being to make a good 
Latter-day Saint. You say you have a relig-
ion of your own, and who has not? Especially 
one of strong individuality and a deep thinker 
—such bow to the statute laws of their 
church, but need the common law for the creed 
of their own souls and their own organizations,
so various and so complex is this said human 
organism! 
	Now you allude to polygamy and the "vir-
tuous indignation" out there; you are right-
eously sarcastic on their order of things; you 
mean to be just, but dear madam, "compari-
sons are odious" in such a matter, there are 
none, there can be none in time nor in eterni-
ty; your following words are good, and whole 
sheets might be written, for verily it is a pro-
lific theme; but I must remember it is a letter 
and not a homily I am writing. 
EXTRACT 2.
	I have just been reading the clipping you 
sent me from the "Daily Telegraph." I should 
like to sit face to face with the writer for a 
short time; I would set him a chair and then
say, allow me to criticize this writing of yours 
which I hold in my hand. In the first place 
you know nothing of the character of the man 
you so flippantly and unsparingly cut up as 
though you were an omniscient being. You be-
lie your own judgment in almost every part,
would such an equivocating witness be admit-
ted into any court where justice held her bal-
ance even? Judge ye all who read this article 
with their eyes open and no veil on their un-
derstanding; Brigham Young was as far above 
your garbled criticism as was Jesus Christ 
above that of the Jews and the Romans popu-
lace. 
	I would show him  where he knew he lied, 
because he contradicts himself, and I would 
show plainly that he is a "boughten article." I 
would also ask him, do you positively believe 
that a quarter of a million of people are all

[Column 3]
fools? The brainless, heartless beings you por-
tray them? My God! I wish the vision of 
your mind could be opened, that knowledge 
could be given unto you for a time, long enough 
to ever after give you common sense, the 
greatest gift  God, then your eyes wouid be 
open and you would behold your nudity—I 
would have liked to have placed you under 
the influence of that quiet eye that would have 
pinned you to your seat by the volley of truth,
of honesty, of power and of reproof which it 
would have emitted. Yes, I—only a woman 
would have made that man feel small as he had 
never felt before by the simple power of the 
spirit of truth which I posses as the gift of 
God, which surely would have been within me 
at the time I spoke to him. 
	Ah! one moment these scribblers speak of 
Brigham Young as a marvel among men, "One 
of the most successful men the present genera-
tion has known," and in the next sentence 
brand him as an arch impostor, "a man of no 
education and culture." They get a glimpse 
of the grandeur of the man's character, and 
they cannot but own it, or stamp themselves as 
ignorant dolts, but they try to throw it into the 
shade by speaking of his low birth, his non-ed-
ucation, et cetera. 
	What dupes such writers must be to their 
own narrow creed, to believe that a man unaid-
ed bya power not often known or acknowledged 
upon the earth, and without a collegiate edu-
cation, (which the world puts in the place of 
God) could have gathered together a quarter 
of a million of people—offering them no riches 
or aggrandizement of this world—but "sacri-
fice" is the first word of the covenant—aban-
donment of home and loved ones—a journey 
through a long and wearisome travel to a wil-
derness where no friends were waiting to re-
ceive them, no shelter to their worn-out frames 
but in the wagons in which they had made the 
journey, no food but what remained of that
which they had brought. Was rebellion heard 
against the LEADER of this mighty people?
Verily, no! Faith in God and this very lead-
er made "the rough places smooth" and the 
dark places plain. Wait-and see what history 
will tell of the man now, so belied, so mis-
judged, so misunderstood; it is sufficient for him 
and for this people to know, he was led by the 
hand of God-that all authorities in the Church 
of Latter-day Saints are led by the same spir-
it if they are in the path of duty—the most 
simple and feeble L. D. S. feels and knows 
there is a POWER mighter than man that holds 
ans guides the destinies of this "peculiar peo-
ple" The "Daily Telegraph" writer has faded 
from my mind, I seem to need one of Her-
schell's telescopes to again make him palpable-
this is a just and true figure of how the ene-
mies, and the opposers, and the would-be-wise,
and the skeptic, and the infidel, and every 
thing that hurts, or offends, or blights the pros-
pect, or impedes the progress, or for a time 
destroys happiness and peace, and every voice 
will be hushed that is screaming "sedition, re-
bellion, disloyalty to the constitution, evict
those people of the mountains," et cetera. We
will wake one morining and behold all such 
silent, the night had carried them away, and 
"joy cometh in the morning." Foot to foot,
shoulder to shoulder, hand to hand, heart to 
heart, brain to brain, like well-traiued soldiers 
let the Latter-day Saints move on. "The sword  
of the Lord and of Gideon" being thier 
mouth.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

A VENERABLE WOMAN.

PRESENDIA LATHROP KIMBALL.

(Continued.)
	"During the early period of the life of my
son Joseph I was engaged in teaching a private
school in the old schoolhouse built by Presi-
dent Young, in which, for many years, ward
meetings were held in that locality, also fast
meetings, where the children were blest after
the pattern of the Savior, and according to the
order of the Church of Jesus Chaist of Latter-
day Saints. There, on one occasion, Joseph
was blest by President Brigham Young, and
great things were promised him, among which
it was said that he should supersede his father
in holding the keys of the priesthood upon
the earth. I was very grateful for the bless-
ings and promises made to him by the one
holding the highest authority given to man
upon the earth, and yet it created in me a feel-
ing of greater humility as well as an ardent
desire to dedicate him more fully to the divine
work to be accomplished in this generation. L
felt the need of the Holy Spirit to assist me in
training him up in the nurture and admonition
of the lord."
	"Zion was growing and increasing, people
were getting more comfortable homes, and the
prosperity of the Saints was gradually becom-
ing apparent. From a barren and desolate
land villages and towns, farms and mills sprang
up by dint of the hard labor and energies of
the people, aided and blest by the Almighty.
My husband's wives were all made quite com-
fortable for those days, although now such
surroundings would seem quite old-fashioned
and countrified. We had to card, spin and color
our yarn, and weave, and the dresses made by
our own hands were more highly appreciated
by us then, than the silks and velvets some of
our young mothers are able to buy now. We
knew the worth of these things, for our own
hands had made them. We made our own soap,
we made our own molasses for sweetening, from
beets and sugar cane; we made our own candles,
and lived mostly by means of home made
articles. All this was a rich experience, and
taught us how to feel for each other, and to ap-
preciate every effort for advancement in the di-
rection of temporal progress. In those early
times in the valley the Saints were blest with
great faith, and there was very little sickness,
the gifts of the Gospel were enjoyed to a great
degree, the people were humble, and the pride
of the world was not so prevalent as it is to-
day."
	The next event of importance which oc-
curred in the life of Sister Presendia happened
on the 15th of November, 1853. She was
helping her son Oliver to move a lye leach
and was walking backwards and hit her heels
against a log and fell breaking her left arm.
The elbow turned downwards breaking the
ligaments of the wrist. In her own words,
"it was a terrible smash." She says, "I got up
by help of my knees and held my arm with
my right hand, straitened the arm and fixed
the bone so as to make it look natural and sent
for Brother Kimball. He said it looked to be
all right and he did not believe it could have
been broken, so sent for Dr. Ezra Williams
who lived just across the street, by this time
the arm was so painful I could hold it myself no
longer, and Sister Williams, the Doctor's
mother, held my hand for me. Dr. Williams
was not a surgeon and was unable to deter-
mine whether the arm was broken or not. Ac-
cordingly Dr. France was sent for, he under-
stood the human organism thoroughly and
knew directly what was dislocated and how to
dress the arm. Knowledge is power in such
extremities as this. I then learned my arm
was broken by the sense of feeling when the

[Column 2]

good doctor attempted to put it in its proper
place and bind it up. I was living at that
time where the old church blacksmith's shop
now is, in a small adobie house. Unfortunate-
ly for me fourteen months afterwards I fell on
the ice and broke it again, which was as a natur-
al consequence more severe and more trouble-
some than the first break. In those days we
did all our own spinning, coloring and weav-
ing. I had an English sister staying with me
by the name of Parsons to assist me as I was
unable to use my arm for some time. Sister
Parsons was a very good woman, very capable
and lady-like, but though she did her very
best, no one can do everything, and my sewing
was greatly behind on account of my having
had these accidents. Sister Mercy R. Thomp-
son, dear, kind-hearted soul, understanding my
circumstances made a surprise party and a
sewing bee all in one, and thus a few good sis-
ters helped each other and made up the child-
ren's clothing. Such kindness I shall never
forget. These were the times of scarcity, and
the Spring of 1856 was the time of the grass-
hopper famine, when those who had something
laid by lived on half rations, but many of the
Saints had no provisions at all and those who
were partly supplied, divided their scant store
with those more destitute than themselves. I
felt so keenly the sufferings of the people in
this time of scarcity that although I only re-
ceived half rations in common with the rest
of Bro. Kimball's family, yet I asked the Lord
in prayer to take away my appetite and give
me strength to keep up without it, so that I
might give my rations to the poor children who
had nothing. Strange as it may seem the
Lord heard and answered my prayers. I was
enabled to keep up my usual strength with
scarce any food at all, and the desire of my
heart was granted me that I might impart my
share to those who had none. In that dread-
ful time many were the scenes of distress piti-
ful to relate, and some were not able to endure
this severe test of their faith and apostatized
from the Church and went away. Some lived
on nothing but roots and greens for weeks to-
gether. Verily it was a time of trial that
pierced men's souls; to hear one's children cry-
ing for bread without a morsel to give is some-
thing that even strong men shrink from, and
the tender hearts of mothers in times like these
are torn with anguish."
	"In the summer of 1857 it was arranged
there should be a general celebration of the
24th of July, Pioneer Day as it is called, in
the tops of the mountains, at the head waters
of Big Cottonwood. Quite elaborate prepara-
tions were made and hundreds of the people
gathered there the day previous. Brigham
Young, then Governor of Utah, Heber C.
Kimball, Daniel H. Wells, George A. Smith,
and in fact all the leading men of the Church
went up to take part in the exercises and par-
ticipate in the enjoyments of the festive occa-
sion. They took with them their wives and
children, and many others joined the company,
for it was the people's holiday, and it was a
season of rejoicing for there had been a plenti-
ful harvest the year before after the famine,
and a day of prosperity seemed to have dawned
upon the saints."
	"Bro. Kimball had invited me to go up with
him, and Mother Whitney was with us. The
roads were steep and I walked so much going
up the mountain that I had chills and fever
that night. Mother Whitney administered
comfort to me and blessing and I was healed.
It was a splendid time of recreation, and vari-
ous pastimes and amusements were indulged
in, dancing, singing, orations, and O, how
grand the cannons sounded resounding from
peak to peak on these high mountain tops.
We were so near to heaven and heavenly be-
ings that every one felt the pure atmosphere
and all were so very happy. In the midst of

[Column 3]

this at what seemed a supreme enjoyment, a
time of liberty and peace, two messengers rode
into camp having just arrived from the plains
with the United States mail, and brought the
tidings of Johnston's army being on the march
for Utah. What a feeling came over the peo-
ple with these tidings. President Young had
only just before said if they will let us alone
for ten years we can save ourselves by the
help of God. The gravest matters of state
were discussed there during the next few hours
and the people returned with sobered counte-
nances and reflecting upon the serious condi-
tion of affairs."
	"The history of the Echo Canyon war is
well known, this was the next particular inci-
dent, it occurred the following fall and winter.
My son Oliver was one of the number who
went out with that expedition under Gen.
Wells, and many were the hardships endured
by those brave men. Their clothing was poor
and many suffered much with the cold on ac-
count of that. Oliver had his share of the
bitter experiences of that time and came home
when he was relieved from duty destitute and
worn out with fatigue."
	Following this was "the move," which trans-
pired in the spring of 1858.
	This wholesale moving was a time of
experiences, the people were comparatively
poor, especially in clothing and what is known
as family groceries, and any sort of delicacy or
luxury was rare, and was always saved for the
sick among us. President Kimball moved his
family south a few at a time, as did all those
who had large families, for whatever the world
may think of the advantages men enjoy in
having large families, there is certainly a heavy
responsibility resting upon them, especially
when there is any move to be made involving
a change of place or residence. Large bodies
move slowly, it is said, and that is why all
these large families could not move south at
the same time. Sister Presendia at this time
had her two boys, Oliver who was then a grown
young man and expected to do a man's work
in the family, and her little son Joseph, just
at a most interesting age.
	"It had been determined to leave our lovely
city to the army and all go farther south. Bro.
Kimball fitted up some teams and started a
part of his numerous family, I being one of
the number to make the first move to leave
our homes, the other wives were Anna Gheen
Kimball and Ellen Saunders Kimball, with
all our children. My son Oliver had been
married just before to Mary Ann Lack. Our
directions were to go as far as Springville and
remain there in care of Bishop Aaron Johnson.
We were most kindly received by him and his
family and well provided for. We left Salt
Lake City and our pleasant homes so endeared
to us because of our previous privations and
wanderings, on the last day of March, 1858.
We had no expectation of returning; we made
the sacrifice fully counting the cost. It was
no new thing for the Latter-day Saints, and
they seemed to accept it with the same spirit
of serenity and resignation, that has ever and
always characterized their movements in times
of the severest trial. While I was in Spring-
ville I was always busy, every one had to work,
it was an absolute necessity. I had left all, my
home, my furniture, my household appurte-
nances, such little things as are the ornaments
of home, it was very little we could take with
us, only the barest necessities, but all I wished
particularly for was my bedstead, lying on the
floor again was so hard after our long and
tedious journeys, it was annoying to be obliged
to submit to it again, and all on account of 
those who had already previously driven us in-
to the wilderness and been the cause of all
our hardships. Still there was no hardness in
our hearts, only pity for the condition in which
we were so unexpectedly placed.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

TO M.C.S.

Last but not least, unfailing, faithful friend,
	My heart sends forth its gifts of love to thee,
In language where the poet's sweet voice ascends,
The present joins, and with the future blends
	In choral song, a soul-felt harmony.

Well, listen, first unto the voice that sings
	Of the far years that form our mutual past;
While thoughts fair fingers fondly touch the strings,
And memory flies to fold her shadowy wings
	Over a realm whose treasures always last.

Forever last! for though estrangement's gloom
	Too often falls o'er friends we once have known,
Joys they have shared can never cease to bloom,
Searched for, and set, like flowers above a tomb,
	The troubled spirit calls them still its own.

I well remember, when a little child,
	Of wandering by a group of household graves,
The one fair spot, amid a forest wild,
Where blossoms bright, and rare, pale roses smiled
	Up to the boughs that bent like sylvan shades.

While leaning low to read the records there,
	A lady came and smiled, and whispered, "See!
This is my flower garden; full and fair
The buds expand and bloom above despair,
	The buried here were friends to you and me."

And so through life, amid the dearth and doom
	Of severed friendship, I have seemed to see
Those tender flowers upon the sunlit tomb,
And in my heart these words have since found room,
	"The buried here was once a friend to me."

But the voice sings, and bids us list again
	To the dear, tender tone that trembled up
Till the calm present joins to lead the strain
While spirit voices swell the sweet refrain,
	We drink delicious drops from memory's cup.

And gazing down into its tranquil deeps,
	A broken fountain faintly comes to view;
O'er its hushed source a heavy shadow sleeps,
And wearied hope amid the ruin weeps
	Great drops that gem the trampled flowers like dew.

It matters not by what rude hands, or when,
	The full, fresh font was shattered, but it seems
Song and bloom and beauty perished then,
That its dim waves will never flow again
	Beyond the barrier of broken dreams.

The picture grows, and lo, with laughing sound,
	Forth from its mossy vine-wreathed rock a rill
Leaps to the light, and the low hills around
Echo the songs that ceaselessly resound
	From the full waves that dance or dream at will.

Where'er it flows a fragrance fills the air;
	The daisy sleeps beneath the lily's shade;
Sweet song birds flit and flutter everywhere,
But whether bending bowers or ruins bare
	It wanders by, its song is never stayed.

Lovingly lingering where the summer lies
	Catching a ray from every sunbeam passed;
Touched by the tints that fill the far off skies,
Along its course the sparkling current hies,
	And near the silent fountain flows at last.

Leads gently by, and bubbling o'er the brim
	Fills the lone font and softly sweeps away;
Lends its own light unto the wavelets dim,
And leaping through the shadows gray and grim
	Fills all the air with grateful glittering spray.

Taught by the tide, the wakeued stream once more
	Wells forth to join the rapturous, ringing trill;
The shattered shrine resistless rises o'er,
And where dead flowers and silence slept before,
	Together glide the fountain and the rill.

Fearless and free where falsehood lurks in yain, 
	Through storm and shine the blended waters run;
Some mournful measures mingling in the strain,
Keeping their course along life's lessening plain
	To that far sea beyond the settling sun.

Even thus has Maggie's life flowed into mine;
	Thus undivided have our days sped on;
May every year some tendril new entwine,
Some sweet note rise, some soul gem softly shine
	To light the hours that wait the lingering dawn.

[Column 2]

The song is hushed—the touched chords tremble yet—
	The pen is stayed--but still the picture lives;
We list the dying sound with sweet regret;
But on the scene fair faith her seal has set,
	And friendship's hand the gift to Maggie gives.

	B.M.R.
March 13, 1875.


[Column 1]
HOLIDAY TIMES. 

	As the holiday season approaches it brings
to one and all many thoughts and peculiar to the
time. In youth they are joyous, not serious
thoughts; bright and fanciful pictures present
themselves, holding out a panorama of beauti-
ful visions where gladness, merriment and
feasting abound.  Who shall say this is not
good, and exhilirating to the mind and body? 
No one can dispute the fact.  We all know by 
experience, who have lived long in this world, 
that nothing is more injurious to health than
depression of spirits.  "Sadness tends to death,"
was a favorite saying of one of our dear sisters
who has gone from our midst, but whose ex-
ample of cheerfulness under the most trying 
circumstances of life is worthy of imitation. 
Courage to bear adversity is commendable, 
courage in poverty, if it be honest poverty, is 
a true sign of heroism.  It is easy to hold up 
one's head in prosperity, that requires no par-
ticular quantity of courage whatever, but to 
shrink into a nutshel because fortune, the gid-
dy dame, has been playing us some mad freak
is ignoble.  Others may frown upon one be-
cause of adversities, because of an empty purse, 
or "lack of the needful," but one should pre-
serve his own equinamity, should think well of 
himself, should have the courage to look his 
friends in the face, if his  honor has been
maintained through it all, and congratulate
himself that he has the stamina to brave mis-
fortune; it is a proof of genuine character not
to sink under an accumulation of difficulties. 
	
	"Dearly bought the hidden treasure
	Finer feelings can bestow!
	Chords that vibrate sweetest pleasure
	Thrill the deepest notes of woe."

	Never was anything more strictly true than
these poetic sentiments of Robert Burns.  It is 
indeed those who feel the most keenly who en-
joy most and who suffer most It is argued by 
some wise acres that all pain is alike, but the
most learned medecin knwos that there is all
the difference imaginable in the degrees of in-
tensity of bodily suffering, and the heart as 
well. Tell me that all men and women are 
alike, they all suffer alike, all enjoy alike, it is 
not true. Our intelligence teaches us differ-
ently when we reflect and reason upon the sub-
ject. 
	Let me not digress. I was intending to 
write of holiday times; well, even this has as
much to do with the poor as the rich, they en-
ter into the solid enjoyment of these festive oc-
casions with as true a relish for pastime and 
happy reunions, as do those whose wealth and
grandeur make them the cynosure of all eyes. 
But those who have means at their command
might be  more intensely happy if they sought
to bless the meek and lowly, and without os-
tentation in some delicate manner bestow such
attention as would afford grateful appreciation
without woundi[-]g the sensibility of the reci-
ient.To know how to scatter bounties grace-
fully is as ingenious a matter and requires as 
much tact and skill as to probe a wound in or-
der to heal it.  Jesus said, "Take heed that ye
do not your alms before men to be seen of 
them."
	Why do we not follow the teachings of our
divine Master? He sought out the poor and
visited them.  He went not into the mansions
of the great of the earth, but into the hedges
and byways, and He said, "Blessed are the
meek, for they shall inherit the earth." There 

[Column 2]
may be a shadow at the holiday season or 
times, even on the Christmas day when all 
should be at peace with one another and all the
world, but even that may be sanctified to the
good of those who accept all the vicissitudes of 
life as dispensations of a divine providence
for the best good of the human family.  A lit-
tle pensiveness is beautiful mingeld with the
hilarity of a Christmas gathering, the blend-
ing of the more sober and thoughtful with the 
gay and hilarious gives tone to the holiday pic-
ture, and seasons the two elements, softening
and subduing the more ecstatic joy. and these
elevate and modify the sober and reflec-
tive.  And one can scarcely help feeling a holy
awe and reverence even on the most joyful
Christmas occasion, when recalling the incident
that led to the celebration of the most impor-
tant event which has occurred in the history
of the world since the tragedy which trans-
pired in the Garden of Eden.  Therefore it is 
meet to mingle tears and smiles on such an im-
portant anniversary. 
	
	"The time draws near the birth of Christ; 
	The moon is hid; the night is still; 
	The Christmas bells from hill to hill
	Answer each other in the mist."

	O, how significant are these choice lines of 
Tennyson; how many hearts can echo the re-
frain; a mist of pearly tears envelops many a 
household at these holiday times; and yet 'tis
sweet to feel thus, 'tis even sacred, so much so 
that one would not lessen the pain for the ex-
treme of pleasure. 'Tis sublime to contem-
plate the glory of immortality, and when we 
recall the birth and resurrection of our blessed 
Savior, our hearts are enlarged, our souls in-
spired with a divine enthusiasm that blends in 
harmony the celestial elements of our nature
with the immortal kinship.  We are not what 
we were, but what we would be; 

	"With trembling fingers do we weave
	The holly round the Christmas hearth; 
	A rainy cloud possess'd the earth; 
	And sadly fell our Christmas eve."

	"At our old pastimes in the hall
	We gambol'd, making vain pretense
	Of gladness, with an awful sense
	Of one mute shadow watching all."

	Are there any homes where no shadow falls
on Christmas day? From out these happy yet
shadowy households has past perhaps the most
glorious, the most perfect, the most complete
personification that made life dear and desira-
ble. On Christmas day, once the advent of 
the blessed, the precious Messiah, are we not
permitted to obtain a glimpse of the "beyond,"
and to commune in secret meditation, in si-
lence, with those whose lives were interwoven
with ours, and who can never pass from our
memory while time endures. Blessed day! 
And blessed memories thou bringest, for though
joy waits on thy footsteps, and mirth and gaie-
ty are thy handmaidens, yet withal thou hast
a silent shadow in thy train of followers, it 
is the pall that hangs forever like a mantle
over the altar of consecration, where mortals
bow in adoration of the Omnipotent, and ac-
cept the inevitable, feeling assured of the felic-
ity that those attain to, who pass the ordeals 
necessary that their names may be written in 
the Lamb's Book of Life. 	AUNT EM.


The power of a man's virtue should not be 
measured by his special efforts, but by his or-
dinary doing.—Pascal. 

	Letters, or at least the letters of most peo-
ple, are unsatisfactory after long absence. The 
mystery that we want to penetrate, the soul
that we want to reach with our soul, cannot un-
veil itself to us on a sheet of paper, even if it
yearn to do so, and is willing to let us know as 
much as we can understand.—Jean Ingelow.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

     Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising 
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
    EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
    Address all business communications to
	Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, DECEMBER 1, 1883.


[Column 1]
DISFRANCHISEMENT OF WOMEN.

	Ere Congress assembled the various methods
to put down "Mormonism" were being aired
through the newspapers. Once it seemed as if
women had no part or lot in the matter, but
since the ballot was given to the women of
Utah, they have become an important factor
in the question that so astonishes, perplexes
and vexes the nation. Cassidy, of Nevada,
wants the women of Utah disfranchised. That
is not new, he wanted it last year. It is not
very chivalrous to say the least, to take any
civil rights from women, who, according to the
general acceptation of the situation, have so few
privileges of any sort. It proves, however, that
having the franchise does give women power,
that they are a strength even in their "weak-
ness." "Mormon" women vote for the men
whom they have known and proven, and this
is the proof Cassidy gives us, that they do not
know how to vote. If these same women would
cast the ballot for the men who come here and
call them fools, ignorant dupes, and their child-
ren a name one does not like to soil the paper
with, then, I suppose, they would be counted
brave and intelligent, and they might retain
the franchise with all propriety, because it
would help the "Liberals" to place and power,
	The women of Utah have for nearly thirteen
years gone to the polls and voted as their best
judgment dictated, and no man or woman can,
truthfully say any evil has grown out of it. On
the contrary, we affirm women have become
more cultivated in the public weal, and have
sought and imparted to each other information on
general questions pertaining to rights, govern-
ment, laws and their enforcement. When
women know more of these matters it will be
better for any country. The children of wise
mothers are always an improvement upon those
of ignorant ones, and the wife who can talk in-
telligently with her husband on politics, may
keep him at home occasionally, whereas, other-
wise, he would seek the companionship of some
man or set of men, in order to discuss the sub-
ject.
	As for men loving women more who know
very little, who are submissive and inferior, who
have no positive opinions of their own, why
they are certainly inferior men, and it is not
that class of men that strong minded women
would choose for husbands, so they need give
themselves no uneasiness on the subject at all.
These men will not seek such women for mar-
riage, and such ladies would refuse them if
they should. But marrying will go on just the
same, and the clever women will wait until
some great souled, brave hearted man does ask
them. And pending that event go on with
some noble employment, "doing good as she hath


[Column 2]
opportunity." But this is not the subject under
contemplation, it is Cassidy, of Nevada, on the
disfranchisement of "Mormon" women. What
good will this disfranchisement do? It will not
solve the "Mormon" problem at all, nor will it
effect the majority vote, only there will be few-
er votes to count, which will make the present
authority less trouble. Mormon boys are attain-
ing their majority daily, and will vote just as
they please, and there will always be enough of
them to outvote the opposite party, no matter
how it multiplies, rest assured of that fact.
Therefore, Mr. Cassidy might as well save his
credit, and redeem himself as far as possible
from the disrepute he incurred last year by try-
ing to moot this same offensive question, and
let "Mormon" women go on voting as it pleases
them, and it will not affect his politics in the
least. It is strange he should want to meddle
with this affair at all, as there is plenty of mate-
rial for him to work upon in his own state with-
out coming over into Utah, and moreover med-
dling with the affairs of women, which is never
a wise thing to do in any case; much less when
it comes to such a general matter as this one, of
the right to vote. "Mormon women are ex-
ceedingly ambitious; they not only want to vote
but to have their rights extended to holding
office—we trust this will not wound the sensi-
tive feelings of Mr. Cassidy. So far from relin-
quishing their own right to vote so honorably
obtained, and so nobly maintained, they are all
the time working in the interests of equal po-
litical rights for all women; and furthermore,
have interceded with the Legislature to so
revise the Statutes of Utah as to make women
eligible to office. Vex not thyself Mr. Cassidy,
for it may be that women can never get a ma-
jority of votes to elect them to any office, should
they be fortunate enough to receive a nomina-
tion, and even that is very uncertain. Certain-
ly not if men were as narrow-minded as the
honorable Senator from Nevada. Is it an easy
matter to take away this boon once granted
and exercised? One would not think so judging
from the records of nations and pepoles; how-
ever, "Mormons" are not to be dealt with in the
same manner as other folks. There is no excuse
for repealing this law except that "voting is not
good for women." There is a trite saying some-
where extant, that, "What is sauce for the
goose is sauce for the gander," and vice versa, if
voting is good for the gander it must be for the
geese necessarily, but lest we should incur the
displeasure of the author of the "Geese of Gan-
derica," perhaps it would be better to
choose some other term. Remember,
Mr. Cassidy, the Edmund's Bill disfran-
chised both men and women who had ever
obeyed the celestial law—and after doing all
that, one would think there would be a boun-
dary to the extent of disfranchisement. Now
no one goes to the polls who is, or ever was in
the practice of plural marriage. This ought to
satisfy all people who clamor so about the deg-
radation of that paculiar principle. Now,
whether our young people will throw away
their political rights, esteeming them as nought,
for the higher law, remains to be proven.
Nevertheless, there will always be a majority to
keep the ship Zion balanced. Wait and see. It
is possible that the generation born in this
holy order, and heirs to the Priesthood are to
make another epoch in the history of the
Church.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	We have received, from one of our favorite
contributors, a Christmas Story for our next
number. It is a true story graphically told. We
are exceedingly grateful for the article, and

[Column 2]
﻿think the readers of the EXPONENT cannot fail
to be pleased with, and appreciate the story, and
admire the author's style of telling it.

	THE Conference of the Relief Society of
Weber Stake will be held in the Ogden Taber-
nacle, on Friday, the 7th inst., meeting com-
mencing at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. The Y. L. M.
I. A. will hold their Conference on the follow-
ing Saturday, at the same place and same hours.
It is expected Sister E. R. S. Smith and Zina D.
H. Young will be present.

	WE recieve, by courtesy of some friend, a
copy of a "Swiss Woman's Paper," published in
the interests of the women of that country. It
is printed in German, though some parts of it
are in the Zurich dialect. It contains a contin-
ued story, poetry, and miscellaneous articles of
various kinds. The paper is published every
Sunday, and edited by Mrs. Eliza Honnegar, St.
Gallen.

	MRS ANNIE WELLS CANNON, formally con-
nected with the office of the EXPONENT, and
whose departure for Europe with the mission-
aries on the 16th of October was announced in
our columms, arrived in Bern, Switzerland on
the 5th of November in good health and spirits
after a very pleasant, though rather fatiguing
journey across land and sea. At Bern she met
her husband, Elder John Q. Cannon, now Presi-
dent of the Swiss and German mission, after
having been separated from him for two years
and three months. We are anxiously waiting
for a descriptive letter of her travels, etc. for
publication.

	THE Ladies Conference of Salt Lake Stake
will convene in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, Friday and Saturday, Dec. 14th and 15th;
commencing at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. each day. It
is hoped there will be a general attendance of
the sisters from the several branches in the
Stake. The Relief Society will occupy the day
on Friday, holding two sessions. The Primary
will assemble on Saturday morning. Children
from the several wards are invited. The Y. L.
M. I. A. will occupy the afternoon on Saturday.
A full and prompt attendance is earnestly de-
sired.

	A MEETING was held in the 2nd Ward of this
city, October 28th, ult., to reorganize the Primary
Association of that ward, Mrs. Sarah Wheeler,
President of the Relief Society, presided. Sis-
ters E. R. S. Smith, E. B. Wells and E. C.
Clawson were present by invitation. Sister E
R. S. Smith officiated in organizing. Bishop
Peterson and his counselor, James Leach, were
present and approved the proceedings. Officers
as follows: President, Mrs. Phebe C. Young;
Connselors, Johanna Olsen and Emily Hart;
Secretary, Hannah Olsen; Assistant Secretary.
Master Seymour Young; Treasurer, Pauline
Olsen. Remarks suitable to the occasion were
made by the visiting sisters, also Sisters
Wheeler and Young, and by Bishop Peterson.

	THE Juvenile Instructor Office have just is-
sued a new publication, "Lydia Knight's His-
tory." The first book of a series to be published,
entitled, "The Noble Women's Lives Series."
Price 25 cts. For sale at the Juvenile instruc-
tor Office, Salt Lake City. The author is
"Homespun," whose articles often appear in
our columns. It is a little different in the style from
such books generally, and well calculated to
please, as well as edify and instruct the reader.
The most minute details are strictly true, and
this ought to recommend it to the Latter-day
Saints. We are gratified that Homespun has
made this effort to do good, and cannot help con-
trasting her busy literary life, and many domes-
tic cares, with some of our sisters who think
when they marry and have one baby that they


can find no time for improvement, not even to
read. Sister Knight's history is similar to that
of hundreds of other upright, honorable women
whose persecutions and hardships, whose faith
and integrity to the Gospel of Christ has been
unflinching through evil report as well as good.
It is well for our young people to become ac-
quainted with the lives of those who have
helped in the beginning of the Church, who
have been among the early workers for Zion and
whom no accumulation of trials or difficulties
could cause to waver or turn away. There is
much rich material for history, for poetry and
for the drama among this people, and it is the
children of the Latter-day Saints who should
take up these facts and weave them into readable,
creditable prose and poetry, that will enrich the
literature of Zion. Homespun has begun a
good work and may she be able to accomplish
much in this direction, that will make her a
name worthy to be handed down to posterity as
a litterateur.

	THE Unity Club and Ways and Means Com-
mittee are busy preparing for the BAZAR for the
benefit of the Deseret Hospital fund, which will
open in the Social Hall on the 13th inst. It is
likely to be quite a large affair, as the Relief So-
ciety and Y. L. M. I. A. in the city, and also
in the country even, are invited to send in dona-
tions of whatever they like to give to this benev-
olent purpose. The Unity Club has been most
liberal in the past, and has aided the institu-
tion very much by the efforts of its members,
and as the winter is coming on it is an oppor-
tune time to help increase the means of blessing
the sick and afflicted. It is hoped, by those
whose labors have been unceasing in establish-
ing the Hospital, that the associations will re-
spond willingly and liberally to the call, both
the Relief Society and the Y. L. M. I. A. It
has been an immense undertaking and is still
in view of the fact of only a small proportion
being able to pay the full amount for the treat-
ment received. Then the officers labor under
another very serious difficulty, which is, that
they are renting the building, which is unavoid-
able on their part, and the rent alone amounts
to $720. a year, at the rate of $60, per month,
with other incidental expenses on the premises,
in addition to furnishing the house, keeping the
domestic and medical departments supplied with
every necessary for the use of patients and pay-
ing for help. It is quite a common occurrance
in other cities and towns for ladies to get up
bazars, fairs, theatres and entertainments for
thee benevolent purposes, and as Latter-day
Saints we should certainly be wide awake to
take care of those who need attention, kindness
and charity. The BAZAR will be arranged at-
tractively, and as this is just the season before
Christmas when people's hearts grow very ten-
der as the anniversary of time approaches when
"Peace and good will to all men" was declared
upon the earth, there is very little doubt of its
being a financial success.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 101


[Column 1]
EFFECTS OF THE GOSPEL.

	The fruits of the Gospel are life and salvation,
so we will take this as the key to our subject,
whose minute effects are countless, and we can
only tell a few, trusting they may serve as a
stimulant to thinking minds in studying upon
the principles of the Gospel, and its wonderful
effects upon the children of men. We will look
for a moment at the case of our first parents,
Adam and Eve, immediately after their trans-
gression and fall; cast out of the presence of God,
with whom they had walked in the Garden of
Eden, bowed down with grief and shame at
His displeasure, feeling bitterly the weight of
the curse resting upon them.

[Column 2]
	We do not know how long they were left in
this state of darkness and misery, but we know
that after a time God revealed to them the Gos-
pel plan of life and salvation, that it changed
all their weeping and mourning into songs of
joy and praises unto God for the mercies and
blessings made known unto them relating, not
only to themselves, but unto all their posterity.
It gave them strength to brave the thorns and
briers, the pain, and all the ills of their new con-
dition, as they went forth to work our their sal-
aation, to learn the sweet by the bitter in their
journey back to the presence of God.
	Turn to the Bible and read the effects of this
Gospel upon the disciples of Christ; how it
called them from their various avocations in life
to follow Him, the greatest teacher of the Gos-
pel the world has known. It gave those follow-
ers of Christ, those saints of former days, power
to battle against sin and Satan, to withstand
temptation, to bear the persecution heaped upon
them, and to many it gave the power to lay
down their lives for its principles. It sustained
Job in all his afflictions; gave strength to Paul
in his endeavors to sustain and spread abroad its
truths, and courage to David to dare the man-
dates of unjust and wicked men. Its principles
led Enoch and his followers on to perfection, so
they had to be removed to a higher, purer
abode.
	Let us now look for a moment at the effects of
the lack of the Gospel among men. Do you
think if the Jews had possessed one spark of its
spirit and light they would have crucified Jesus,
and said, "Let His blood rest upon us and our
children." No, its light had gone out; been des-
troyed by the evils and abominations that filled
the nation. Would the world have mocked and
derided Noah as he builded the ark and warned
them of the coming destruction? No, it is the
utter absence of the spirit of the Gospel, its
principles and power, that brings ruin, misery
and desolation upon individuals and upon na-
tions.
	We can read the records of the past, can trace
therein the marvelous results of the Gospel, see
its mighty effects. How Israel was prospered
and blessed while she walked in its light: how
Egypt was favored of the Lord while she heark-
ened to its promptings, and the dire results of
both in failing to regard its principles and teach-
ings.
	But let us come nearer home that we may
not only read but see its workings and results.
It was that which sustained our Prophet Joseph
Smith through years of intense labor and perse-
cution until he established again in the earth
the true Church of Christ; until he began again
a work that reaches from the beginning unto the
end of time. Its voice has reached unto the
ends of the earth; no spot so high, so low or des-
olate, but it has or will reach, as thousands of
our Elders testify, and as tens of thousands of
the dispersed of Israel bear witness who have
gathered from the Islands of the Seas and from
parts afar off. We have seen by its magic power
the desert places become fruitful fields and smil-
ing gardens; the restoration of faith and confi-
dence almost fled from earth. The work is on-
ward; the battle for a time unceasing; but weary
not, for there will come a day of victory and
rest, for the Great God has decreed it, and when
the work of the Gospel is fully completed we
will find our sin-stricken world redeemed and
restored to that high position from which it has
fallen.								HOPE.


BE DILIGENT AND FAITHFUL.

	Should we not make it our daily business to
live our religion according to our professions,
walk uprightly as becometh the children of the


Most High? Why have we come here, is it
not that we may prepare ourselves to enter into
a higher and holier life, which is to last forever?
In what way shall we prepare for the next life,
is it in repining and complaining of our lot,
wasting our time in frivolity and nonsense?
Should it not be a question with us, in what
way can we use our time, which has been al-
loted to us here, in wisely preparing ourselves
for that great future where we shall reap the re-
ward of our doings here upon this earth? Would
it not be pleasant to contemplate that while liv-
ing here to-day that we are trying to do the
very best we know how, seeking continually to
know and do the mind of our Father which is
in heaven being obedient to those whose right
it is to guide us along, ever striving to live hum-
ble and prayerful. Jesus said that for every
idle word and thought we will be called to give
an account. Have not all of us a talent, one if
not more, if so, should we not put that talent
out to usury, ever striving to do good, be kind
and loving to our parents, brothers and sisters,
and all those with whom we are associated.
Can we be in the society of the kind and pure
without feeling comforted and strengthened un-
der such an influence? If we expect to associate
with the intelligent we must seek to become in-
telligent ourselves. Should we not be meek and
lowly that we may become more and more like
our Elder Brother, Jesus Christ, who said,
"Where He was His should be also." To pre-
pare ourselves to be like Him must we not fol-
low out those sublime teachings where He said,
"Do unto others as you would wish others to do
unto you, to forgive others their trespasses as
we hope to be forgiven our trespasses." Jesus
also said, "If you love me keep my command-
ments." Are we diligent in keeping the com-
mandments of God as we receive them from
time to time? Jesus also said, "Let your light
shine before men that others seeing your good
works might glorify your Father which is in
Heaven;" also, "He that is ashamed of before God
and His holy angels, and he that is not ashamed
of me before men him will I not be ashamed of
before my Father and His holy angels. Let us
then be up and doing, striving with all our
might to so live that we may have a testimony
within us concerning the work of God in these
last days, which shall be like a well of living
water springing up unto eternal life. The
pleasure of this life are nothing compared with
those we experience when we feel that we are
living up to what we profess, walking in the
line of our duty, and doing good.
						AUNT HANNAH.
	Nephi.


THE WORD OF WISDOM.

	I thought I would write a few words upon the
Word of Wisdom. I feel timid in so doing for
I believe it means so much more than our weak
minds can comprehend, except we are enlight-
ened upon it; but if we show our willingness we
may learn little by little until we become per-
fected in it. Some think to quit drinking tea
and coffee a great sacrifice, but I think those
who feel that way will esteem it a very small
thing before they are tried as Abraham was.
Nearly all human beings think they came into
the world to be tried; so let us each ask our-
selves the question, do we believe our Heavenly
Father has revealed these truths for our benefit?
If we do we should rejoice that we have the
privilege of showing our appreciation of them,
and try to adopt them in our every day life. I
fear, if we are too weak to try, that we will like-
wise be too weak to stand when the destroyer is
on the errand of death.


If we read the eighth verse of the fourth chap-
ter of the Book of Helaman, Book of Mormon,
Nephi, son of Helaman, says, "That except the
Lord doth chasten His people with many afflic-
tions, yea except He doth visit them with death
and with terror, and with famine, and all man-
ner of pestilences, they will not remember
Him."
	Let us think of these words, and imagine our-
selves each a missionary to watch and guard
number one, that we may study the laws of
life and salvation and try to carry them out,
whether it is the Word of Wisdom or any other
good principle, that we may be found with oil
in our lamps when the Bridegroom cometh, is
the desire of your friend,
						MARY J. MORRISON.
	Manuscript Paper, "Young Ladies Herald of
Union," Spanish Fork, Nov. 15th, 1883.


102	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	OUR TRAVELS BEYOND THE
		MISSISSIPPI.

	BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	Camp life in February was quite a novel ex-
perience, and might be called a pleasant one
at Sugar Creek when compared with what was
laying before us; more especially the youthful
portion—they feeling no particular responsibil-
ities resting upon them, nor any great hard-
ships as yet. The band played every evening,
and Hans C. Hanson, an adopted son of my
parents, was very fond of playing his violin.
My husband would often join him with his flute,
and there being quite a number of young people
in my father's family we could form a cotillion
or French four by the big log fire, and often we
did so at evening, and danced to amuse our-
selves as well to keep our blood in proper
circulation. I there took my first lesson in
the Danish waltz. The weather was so cold
that it was impossible to keep warm without
exercise. Many declared that they had never
suffered so much from the cold as they did at
Sugar Creek, and we were informed that nine
children were born the first night the Saints
camped there. Feb. 5th, 1846. The inspiring
music by William Pitts' brass band, which was
organized into companies of tens to travel to-
gether, often gladdened the hearts of the Saints,
and helped greatly to keep their spirits from
sinking. They appointed Wm. Cahoon and
Howard Egan captains over them.
	Before starting from Sugar Creek the fol-
lowing memorial was addressed "To his excel-
lency Governor of the Territory of Iowa:
HONORED SIR:
	The time is at hand in which several thou-
sand free citizens of this great Republic are to
be driven from their peaceful homes and fire-
sides, their property and farms, and their
dearest constitutional rights, to wander in the
bareen plains and sterile mountains of western
wilds, and linger out their lives in wretched ex-
ile, far beyond the pale of professed civilization,
or else be exterminated upon their own lands
by the people and authorities of the State of
Illinois. As life is sweet, we have chosen
banishment rather than death, but, sir, the
terms of our banishment are so rigid that we
have no sufficient time allotted us to make the
necessary preparations to encounter the hard-
ships and difficulties of these dreary uninhab-
ited regions. We have not time allowed us to
dispose of our property, dwellings and farms,
consequently many of us will have to leave
them unsold, without the means of procuring
the necessary provisions. clothing, teams, etc.,
to sustain us but a short distance beyond the
settlements; hence our persecutors have placed
us in very unpleasant circumstances.
	To stay is death by fire and sword; to go in-

[Column 2]
to banishment unprepared is death by starva-
tion. But yet, under these heart rendering cir-
cumstances; several hundreds of us have started
upon our dreary journey, and are now en-
camped in Lee County, Iowa, suffering much
from the intensity of the cold, some of us are
already without food, and others have barely
sufficient to last a few weeks; hundreds of
others must shortly follow us in the same un-
happy condition. Therefore,—
	We, the presiding authorities of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, as a com-
mittee in behalf of several thousand suffering
exiles, humbly ask your Excellency to shield
and protect us in our constitutional rights,
awhile we are passing through the Territory
over which you have jurisdiction. And,
should any of the exiles be under the necessi-
ty of stopping in this Territory for a time,
either in settled or unsettled parts, for the pur-
pose of raising crops, by renting farms or up-
on public lands, or to make the necessary pre-
parations for their exile in any lawful way, we
humbly petition your Excellency to use an in-
fluence and power in our behalf, and thus pre-
serve thousands of American citizens, together
with their wives and children, from intense
suffering, starvation and death. And your pe-
titioners will ever pray."
	In the diary of President Young was writ-
ten as follows: "Our homes, gardens, orchards,
farms, streets, bridges, mills, public halls, mag-
nigcient Temple and other public improvements,
we leave as a monument of our patriotism, in-
dustry, economy, uprightness of purpose, and
integrity of heart, and as a living testimony of
the falsehoods and wickedness of those who
charge us with disloyalty to the constitution of
our country, idleness and dishonesty."
	On the first day of March the majority of
the companies left their encampment. The fol-
lowing is copied from Sister Jane B. Taylor's
journal:
	"Sabbath morning, March 1st, a meeting was
called for the purpose of giving general instruc-
tions to the brethren regarding their journey.
Bro. Kimball exhorted the Saints to be diligent
in prayer to Almighty God all the day long. He
called especially upon the heads of families to at-
tend daily to family worship, and to give heed
to counsel, assuring them that if they did so
God would bless them, and angels of God
would go before them, and would be the break-
ers up of our way. He left the camp with
family shortly after meeting was dismissed—
Brigham's family towards evening."
	There was a great amount of sympathy mani-
fested by the people as we traveled through
Iowa. Many visited our camps, and wherever
the companies stopped our men were able to
find employement. The splendid music made
by the Nauvoo Brass Band quite surpassed
anything that had been heard in that part and
they were cordially invited to play at every 
settlement, and requested to give a number of
concerts—this they did after consulting the
Presidency, and for which they were gererous-
ly recompensed. Thus we see that God did
fulfil the predictions made that day by my
father, and truly His angels went before us,
and He was the breaker up of our way.
	It will be remembered by those familiar
with our history that a letter was received
about this time from Samuel Brannan, con-
taining a copy of rather a strange agreement
between him and a Mr. A. G. Benson, which
he desired the authorities to sign. This, it
seems, was read at a council held by a number
of the Apostles in a valley half a mile east of
the camp. Sam Brannan was scheming for
nought but worldly profit, and wanted the
Latter-day Saints who had been exiled to join
him, and a host of political demagogues to as-
sist them in their plans to settle upon the sea-
shore, then to rob them, after which the ar-
mies of the U. S. could compel them to sub-

[Column 3]
mit. Brannan already had charge of the
company of Saints who went around in the
ship Brooklyn, whose sad story "the half has
not been told." The idea of our deliverance,
coming through such a sonrce. Ex-Postmas-
ter Kendall and Benson, his agent, and others
had hood-winked Brannan into the belief that
"unless the leaders of the Church signed an
agreement with them, to which the President
of the United States, he said, was a "silent
party," the government would not permit the 
Mormons to proceed on their journey west-
ward. This agreement required the pioneers
"to transfer to A. G. Benson & Co., and to
their heirs and assignees the odd numbers of
all the lands and town lots they may acquire
in the country where they may settle. In
case they refused to sign the agreement the
President, it was said, would issue a proclama-
tion, setting forth that it was the intention of
the Mormons to take sides with either Mexi-
co or Great Britain against the United States,
and order them to be dispersed." This was
one of the plans instituted by Lucifer, who
wanted to reconcile God and Baal, but we had
wiser heads, who understoood their duty bet-
ter. President Young and his brethren were
determined to carry out the plans previously
laid out by Joseph Smith; and they saw the
wisdom of settling in a country where they
could be out of the reach of ruthless and ex-
terminating mobs, until Zion had increased
ad put on her strength. The Apostles did
not desert their people to run from their ene-
mies, as advised by Mr. Benson, to avoid be-
ing arrested; but it was in God that they trust-
ed, and to Him alone the pilgrims looked for
that protection which had been withheld from
them by their own countrymen. And it was
Him who led and placed them here upon the
"mineral back-bone" of the continent, and
this fact, with the wonderful prosperity that
has attended the Latter-day Saints, makes it a
constant eye-sore to "Uncle Sam."
	In that first exodus there was such a great
desire among the people and such a determina-
tion to emigrate with the first company that
there were hundreds started without the nec-
essary outfit. They could neither procure suf-
ficient teams nor provisions, which retarted
our progress, and was the cause of a greater
amount of suffering than there would other-
wise have been. And my father, in speaking
of it, said, under the circumstances it would
take years to reach the mountains.
	Our difficulties commenced the first day that
we started from Sugar Creek; and my trials as
well. My father had one large family carriage
in which mother and the children and most of
the women folds were obliged to ride or else
walk, as his wagons were all so heavily loaded;
I did not consider that my marrying had les-
sened my claims, nor given any one else the
right to my place by the side of my mother,
and it was something of a surprise and a
trial to my weak faith to find that my father's
family had become so large that he had not
conveyances for them. One of his wives
(Christine Golden) who came from Philadel-
phia and was living with the family of Bro.
Jedediah Grant at Sugar Creek, was unknown
to me until I met her there. She was a very
proud-spirited woman, and that morning father
sent her to his carriage, but finding it crowded
full she turned without a word and went and
rode that day with Sister Grant. After be-
coming acquainted we made our confessions,
and many a time we have referred to that day
and laughed heartily over it, as well as other
things that once vexed and tried us. At every
bad place the teams had to be doubled, and
the first day we were detained, it seemed to me
hours, while they crossed over a deep ravine
and drew the loaded wagons up a steep hill on
the other side. The rest had all got out of the
carriage, and while I sat holding the reins the


wind was so cold and piercing that it seemed
to me as if I should perish. We only made
six miles and encamped for the night on a
small creek about fifteen miles from Farming-
ton. "The same evening President Young ar-
rived with the remainder of the camp, except
the artillery, which came up later in the even-
ing." (H. K. Whitney's Journal.) The
snow had to be cleaned away to pitch the tents,
and our beds were made upon the frozen
ground. We were not blessed with a stove
in our tent that night and it was impossible to
get warm by the camp fire; so that night I laid
nothing off, not even my hood or josie. But
the weather moderated before morning and
the back bone of winter was broken. We
started from there about noon and traveled
only seven miles in consequence of the bad-
ness of the road. We passed through Farm-
ington on the 3rd and encamped three miles
beyond—making ten miles that we traveled
that day—the mud made traveling almost im-
possible. We overtook President Young here,
also Bishop Miller, who with his company had
been encamped about a week.

To be Continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 103


[Column 1]
OLD LETTER.

	Looking over some old letters the other day
to see what I could dispose of to make room
for more, I found this one from Prof. Barfoot.
I thought perhaps 'twould not be amiss to pub-
lish it. How beautiful to me was this dear
old gentleman, one of nature's noblemen in-
deed, and the inheritor of a distinguished title,
which he held of no worth compared with the
honor of a Latter-day Saint. He was a man
of education and culture, though so excessive-
ly diffident and unassuming that few people
knew him well enough to appreciate his worth,
How delicate and refined his thoughts and
ideas were, and how reverentially he referred
to the Gospel and the influences of the Holy
Ghost.
	I loved to go into the Museum and talk with
him, I always came away wiser than when I
went, he imparted knowledge, as he did every-
thing, unobtrusively. How sorry I have felt
that I had not known him longer, and that I
had not more time to spend in his society. Be-
cause of this lack of time I occasionally wrote
to him, and his answers were always prompt,
edifying and instructive. The letter given
here was spontaneous, and one gets so much
fault found with them in this world that a little
appreciation is very acceptable. The great
fault of many of us is that we neglect the peo-
ple we meet every day to worship those at a
distance, or who have lived in another period
of time, and after they have gone we mourn
that we gave so little heed to them, or perhaps
that we have neglected them.

DESERET MUSEUM.

SALT LAKE CITY, July 16th, 1881.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Dear Sister, I have been made pleased with
your pen-pictures of natural objects I love so
well;, what a fascination there is in gazing, even
mentally, on "the old forest," "the moss
grown rocks," "the sea—the shells and the
corals, gems of the ocean, the ferns and
flowers and clinging moss." We love to call
up these associations, and with them emotions
of the "auld lang syne" hinted at in the beau-
tiful verses: "In my first primeval childhood."
Our religion is full of poetry of this kind. The
"memory of the past" extends indefinately
backwards, expecially when the Urim and
Thummim ("the hights and perfections") of
the Gospel are with us. Then we can realize
dimly, dreamily it may be, something of the
past, when we dwelt in the presence of our Di-

[Column 2]
vine Father and delightful thought, of our
Divine Mother.
	And, then, when we sit beneath the canopy
of heaven, and are animated by a perception
of its vastness, what a sense of freedom is rea-
lized, although, as you remark, "The most love-
ly things of earth seem insignificant compared
with the grandeur and exquisite beauty of the
starry heavens." You have added to the pic-
ture, "by moonlight," which lends an addition-
al charm to the scene.
	As to your "guess," "Some day, may be, we
shall enjoy all these beauties and more, and
our hearts and souls be satisfied?" We shall.
	Now, the "Transcendalist" tells us that our
brain has been made for us, and that associa-
tions are mentally reproduced by our environ-
ments, which bring to the mind pictures of the
past as they were seen by our progenitors.
This is very kind of the philosophers, but I
would rather believe that we have a dim, it
may be a dreamlike remembrance of the past.
I think that our conception of "transcendental
physics" is more rational. If we have enjoyed
the beautiful things of our "primeval" garden,
where the flowers and trees, the living waters
and the living light were none the less lovely
because we were innocent; why not, by the
light of that spirit that "shall bring nll things
to our remembrance," have a glimpse now and
then of past beauties to cheer us on the way?
	As to the desires for "culture in art, litera-
ture, and the studies of nature," Parley P.
Pratt gives us some beautiful illustrations of
the influence of the Holy Spirit in his "Key
to Theology," And to some of us, who have,
in a degree, receieved of the things of the king-
dom to which we have been made heirs, to
whom the patent of nobility has been given,
signed, sealed and delivered by the living
Priesthood of our Heavenly Father; what won-
der if, at times, the remembrance of the glories
of our "primeval childhood" should be re-ec-
hoed in our souls and gladden our mental eyes
with their sweet sounds and dazzling beauties?
	I thank you, my sister, for your kind words,
they remind me that I am a Latter-day Saint.
What a glorious world you have to sow the
seeds of truth—seeds which never, never die!
	You shall have something for your valua-
ble magazine, I am glad of your prayers—
The prayers of the Saints have often aided
and sometimes given me a new lease of life.
	Very faithfully yours in the Gospel, with
fervent wishes for your prosperity,
					JOSEPH L. BARFOOT.


HEBER PRIMARY FAIR.

	The Primaries of the East and West Wards
of Weber held a Fair Nov. 14, in the Ladies'
Hall. There was a very fine display of fancy-
work, knitting, crochet, mats, patchwork, flow-
ers, baskets, cookery of all descriptions, pies,
cakes, plain and fancy bread, butter, jellies,
etc. There were also drawings, woodwork,
etc., done by some very small boys. There
was a variety of other things too numerous to
mention.
	There were present at the Fair, President
of the Stake and her Counselors, Presidents of
the Associations of the Wards and their Coun-
selors, also the Bishops of the Wards. It was
also largely attended by the children, their
parents and friends.		MARION TODD,
								Secretary.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

WASATCH STAKE.

	The Conference of the Relief Societies was
held in Heber City Hall, November 9th 1883,
Mrs. Emma Brown presiding with her counsel-
ors. Local authorities present Pres. Hatch

[Column 2]
Bishops Foreman and Rasband. Minutes of
former conference read and approved; also the
reports, showing the societies financially in a
flurishing condition. Sister Brown made
some remarks; she also read a piece from the
EXPONENT, "The Prophet Joseph's counsel to
Relief Societies." The presidents of the sever-
al wards each gave a verbal report, showing
the spirit of improvement. The secretary then
read a letter from Sisters Snow and Wells,
which was full of good counsel and encourage-
ment. Pres. Hatch then addressed the confer-
ence upon the Word of wisdom; he felt pleased
to meet with the sisters. A good spirit pre-
vailed throughout the conference.
	Conference adjourned for six months. Sing-
ing, "We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet."
Benediction by Bishop Foreman.

JUAB STAKE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	During the past two months the presidency
of the Relief Society of Juab Stake, in con-
nection with President Paxman and party,
have visited the different branches of Relief
Society of this stake.
	Found the sisters alive to their duties, and
laboring earnestly for the advancement of
Zion's cause. Also visited Juab Station, Oct.
30th, and organized a Relief Society and
Primary Association in that branch. The fol-
lowing officers were elected for the Relief So-
ciety: Mrs. Hannah Kinder, President; Mrs.
Susan Witbeck, and Mrs. Mary E. Taylor,
Counselors; Mrs. Mary F. Bigler, Secretary;
Mrs. Christena Jensen, Treasurer.
	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Juab Stake will be held at Nephi,
Dec. 15th and 16th, 1883.

MISS M. E. HOYT,
Secretary.

SANTAQUIN Y. L. M. I. A.

DEAR EDITOR:
	I write you a few items in regard to the
Y. L. M. I. A. of this place. It is now ten
years since they were first organized. Ever
since that time this association has been grow-
ing in interest as well as numbers, until it has
reached nearly every young lady in the place.
Mrs. Nettie Tietjen, who has been President
for the past five years, has resigned, being
about to leave the place during the winter, and
the following persons were sustained as officers,
and set apart by Bishop George Hallady and
Second Counselor, E. W. Clark: Rosetta Open-
shaw, President; Annie Anderson and Emma
Wall, Counselors; Augusta Tietjen, Secretary;
Sadie Harris, Assistant Secretary; Bettie Boss,
Treasurer. E. J. Stickney, Supt.

SANTAQUIN PRIMARY.

	The President of the Primary Association of
Santaquin having also resignd, a reorganization
of the same was attended to by Bishop George
Hallady and First Counselor, Eli Openshaw,
which took place Nov. 17th, 1883, with the
following sisters as officers: Elizabeth Wall,
President; Agnes Clark and Annie Broad-
bent, Counselors; Josephine Ahleen, Secretary;
Maud Kirkman, Assistant Secretary; Augusta
Tietjen, Treasurer. E J. Strickney, Supt.

FOUNTAIN GREEN PRIMARY.

	The Fountain Green Primary held their
Conference and Fair Nov. 24th, 1883; the
Conference being at 10 o'clock a.m. in the
school house. The little ones did their part to
make it interesting, by giving recitations, dia-
logues, essays and singing beautiful little songs.
After which we had some very good remarks
from some of the brethren and sisters who
were present, expressing their pleasure and sat-


isfaction with the exercises. Following this
the children were surprised with a little picnic
of apples, cakes and candy, being passed to
them by the committee. They were then dis-
missed for an hour, to meet again at the Fair
at 1 o'clock p.m. in the hall.
	It was a very pleasing sight to look upon the
many different things prepared by their little
fingers for the occasion. There were a great
variety of ornaments, such as mottoes, zephyr
flowers, cases of many different forms, tidies,
collars, some bead and some crochet; rugs,
quilts, stockings, and some very neat hand-sew-
ing in a dress made by a little girl. There was
also a nice assortment of confectionery; cakes,
pies, jellies, etc. There were also some very fine
vegetables, and some wood-work prepared by
the boys. There were many other things too
numerous to mention. At four o'clock our
Bishop made some very good remarks and dis-
missed by prayer.
			HANNAH COLLARD, President.
			ANNIE ANDERSON, Secretary:


104	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE ETHICS OF ECONOMY.

	There is a curiously erroneous idea pervad-
ing among certain classes of people that there
is something extremly plebeian about economy,
and conversely that it is a good form to spend,
in an apparently careless manner, with an air
of "I don't care anything abont the cost; I
mean to have it." whether the commodity be
dry good, confectionary or carriage hire. This
free-and-easy way of dispensing one's income is
to a notable extent an attribute of a certain
class of women. Men, who more generally
earn their money, are usually more select in
their methods of spending while they also
spend more liberally. Women of wealth sel-
dom fling money about so lavishly, as having
been accustomed to its use they better under-
stand what money represents. As a usual
thing it is the people of small, but prompt in-
comes, salaried people, who spend the most
lavishly and extravagantly. These, too, are
the people who complain of the cost of actual
living; who grumble about rent and grocers'
bills when they spend each month nearly an
equal sum in little expenses for they know not
what.
	Professor David Swing, of Chicago, has re-
cently been moved to utterance on this univer-
sal complaint about the cost of living, and re-
ferring to it he says:
	But the table is not the only place where the
bill of family expenses need not be large. In
all departments of home-life money is thrown
away. The custom is to open an account at
some popular storehouse and let the dealer
charge what pleases him. Thus the corner
shopkeeper gets rich and the family in the cot-
tage grows poor. Let the rich fatten these
shopkeepers; the humbler class cannot afford
to be charitable. There is no fixed price for
one in ten of the necessary commodities. Peaches
are fifty cents a basket or a dollar a basket, not
according to quality, but according to the sel-
ler and the place where sold. It is well to buy
of the dollar man if we wish to help him along,
but if the buyer needs help he would better
look up the fifty-cent man—the peaches being
the same. The millionaire sends out and pur-
chases a clothes wringer for three dollars; that
is well; it helps the seller; but the humbler
housekeeper can buy the same article exactly
for two-thirds of that sum. One thing is cer-
tain, that nothing is more flexible and submis-
sive than this very expense bill. But it does
not follow that one must have an enormous in-
come, and be beyond the reach of all perad-
venture. It is far better to take some risk
than to be homeless. A plain dinner in one's
own home, with one's beloved wife at the other

[Column 2]
end of the table, is better than a table d' hote
feast away from these other attractions. If eat-
ing were the main aim of existence, then the
proposition to sell wife and children and home
and books and hire a French cook would be
worthy of consideration.
	There is a further consideration involved in
this matter of scattering one's income about.
We spend our money for what we like. Our
expenses represent our tastes and our tenden-
cies. If our idea of social intercourse is that
of fragmentary conversation between the
courses of a French menu, we buy dinners for
our friends. If books and pictures represent
happiness we invest in those. If in dry goods,
we contribute to the prosperity of the merchant.
At all events we spend our money for what we
like, and are like that for which we spend our
money.
	It is an indication of character, and has also
its inflex influence on character. The matter
of amusement-going is one involving several
interests. Unquestionably the money invested
in a good dramatic performance or a fine opera
is a better investment than if put in the bank.
It is capital invested in the culture of life.
But who are you who have no interests, no en-
tertainment, no occupation at home, that you
must each night contribute your money and
your time to a company of strolling players,
whose performance may be all very well for
empty-headed people who must be externally
amused, but is quite the reverse for one who
has in himself the power of intellectual activ-
ity. The conservation of energy and of time
is a lesson greatly needed in the average indi-
vidual life of our great cities.—Selected.


[Column 1]
ELLEN B. FURGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office and Residence on 2d South between 3d
and 4d East Streets.

Special Study has been given to SURGERY, DISEASES
OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS.
☞ Can be called by Telephone Day or Night.

For Sale at this office.

BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.

PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,		-	25c. per copy.
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,		40c.	"
Poems by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,		-		$1.00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco,		1.50	"

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
Office and residence, South Temple Street, one
block and a half west of the Valley House.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.

A LARGE STOCK
Of home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Casiemers,		Washboards
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE IN GODBE PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephone Communications between Office and Residence

[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARD,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
☞ We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, SUPT.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

[Image of store]
HENRY DINWOODEY.

FURNITURE,
WALL PAPER,
CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUINS
AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY.

F Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMINE. ☜


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 12.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1883.	NO. 14


<t' .="" ',="" t.,yte;ieftw="" by="" the="" things="" wo="" suffer'="" jsnch="" ls="" onr="" maker’s.plan;="" [olt,what="" deep-sach="" irpable—="" h="" 'mjttjfh="" blessing="" instead="" of="" a="" ban.="" ilwhatlf="" afatbr’d(j)="" nnmber'!,x="" ;="" ,="" n="" vo="" f="" can="" terlly="" do="" ns="" theyplease?="" %="" -="" j?.wht="" if="" dhq="" aimless-slumber="" ri="" j'or="" bay-'8onlitaka="" thinoeaso?”'="" .ft="" '.belter="" pur'slrengllr="" to="" measure—="" “="" "’gainst="" host'="" “the="" ills="" thatbe,”!="" :.="" -than'="" to'="" sink;="" jn="" sands="" call’d="" pleasure,="" r="" u="" that="" circle="" prosperity’s'sea.'="" constant="" tenslon-r-="" ”jtho="" straits="" tiiat="" the.="" poorest="" kubw—="" than'be="" void="" comprehension="" senses="" sufferer’s="" woe,="" "="" i="" b="" j="" better="" learn="" compassion="" ranch="" we="" keenly="" feel,="" .than.="" to.="" follow="" tyrant,="" fashion!="" .a,'blare="" her="" whims="" and="" will.="" ‘="" better'to="" need="" assistance="" ;.."="" an="" lean="" on="" father’s="" lore,="" than="" widen="" tha="" bpacc—the="" distance—="" i)0tthttearthan'the="" hearjens="" abore..="" ’="" l="" <!the="" test="" of‘dur="" souls="" convictions.™="" .v="" r.iil="" ‘the="" gauge="" trust="" truth—="" t="" atfsuch;are.our(llght="" afflictions—="" 'jpount.mrq,="" croym,.forsooth.="" leant="" things'.wo="" ',‘8nch'isburmaker’ap'lanj="" :="" 'oft="" what="" deem'buch'tronblo-="" ris'a'blessldglnsteadbf="" a’ban.),="" vot="" i.="" esfirrh,-="" woodsunsee.="" 8ait:lake="" clty—..j="" 4.c="" <="" div="">A BLESSING INSTEAD OF A BAN.

"We learn by the things we suffer"
	Such is our Maker's plan;
Oft what we deem such trouble—
	Is a blessing instead of a ban.

What if a favor'd(?) number;
	Can verily do as they please?
Wat if the aimless slumber,
	or say—"soul take thine case?"

Better the constant tension—
	The straits that the poorest know—
Than be void of the comprehension
	That senses a sufferer's woe.

Better to learn compassion
	By much that we keenly feel,
Than to follow the tyrant, Fashion!
	A slave to her whims and will.

Better to need assistance
	And lean on our Father's love,
Than to widen the space—the distance—
	'Twixt the earth and the Heavens above.

The test of our souls convictions—
	The gauge of our trust and truth—
Such are our light afflictions—
	Count them, a crown, forsooth.

"We learn by the things we suffer"
	Such is our Maker's plan;
Oft what we deem such trouble—
	Is a blessing instead of a ban.
					EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.

Salt Lake City.


CHRISTMAS

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	There are days in the year that seem to ar-
rest us in our busy life of toil and every day
enjoyment; at these times, we seem to resolutely
catch time by the forelock, and say to him,
stay with us a few moments, and help us to
take a look back on the road we have traveled,
and time seems to accede to our entreaty and
at once takes us up into a high mountain, from
which we stand and gaze down the indistinct
and interminable road we have traveled; we go
back as far as the eye can take us—and
memory rises up and shows us our nursery
home where as little children we were fostered
and cared for, and every want supplied by
our loving parents. Those beautiful parents,
how they stand out in bold relief in that dim
vista as the Lares and Penates of that beloved
home; how much we remember, and yet there
seems a veil of mist overshadowing that cradle
of childhood.
	Memory brings us higher up the vista—
we are taking the leap into the grand arena of
life! we become actors on the broad stage of
terra firma; we voluntarily take a part—we
throw off the domino, in which we acted out
our childhood under tutors and governors, now
we take a character, and in that we intend to
walk the stage of life; there is much that en-
chants and dazzles our brain, the tinsel of the
stage is fascinating, we look not beyond, the
arena seems all for us, and those associated
with us; the audience seem smiling approving-
ly upon our debut, and we are elated, for the
springs of life are bright and sparkling—we

[Column 2]
array ourselves in our character role, and we
walk the stage with an elastic step, there is a
concord of sweet sounds about our ears, and
we feel inspired to carry out the role we have
undertaken. We labor to propel our destiny,
and we dream of eclat and applause crowning
our exertions. The scenes are shifting—the
glory and the beauty of the opening ones are
changed—dark and gloomy ones take posses-
sion, but we plod on. Alas! the poetry of the
stage has vanished, but we work on determined
not to be discouraged; we bid adieu to the poet-
ry, except a small portion which we lovingly
lay up in the depths of our soul, that we be
not quite starved. We then heroically take
up the prose of life; we find it is something
more substantial, more nutritious, more suit-
able for the wear and tear of this work-a-day
world.
	We have now attained the maturity of
character and reputation; we make a Home,
we people it with beings of our own creation,
we have dropt all play-acting, we are now sur-
rounded by the stern, matter of fact realities
of the world's wide stage! we have passed the
rocks and shoals that all human beings have to
pass through, more or less, we have been per-
mitted to recognize the hand of God, we real-
ize that He has been the Grand Organizer and
Governor of our lives.
	This day of Christmas also teaches us to re-
member the Savior of the world, the Redeem-
er of the human family; Him whose name we
have taken upon ourselves, and whose service
we rejoice in, and are trying to magnify our
calling. Let us then be cheerful, let us rejoice,
let us even be merry, but let us remember to
temper all our moods with dignity and sobrie-
ty, that were we summoned to quit this stage of
life in the midst of our rejoicing, we might
calmly and smilingly quit these sublunary
scenes for the grand empyreum of our Father
who art in Heaven, so that when the final cur-
tain falls on our earthly pilgrimage we may
hear the plaudits, not of an earthly audience,
but the chant of myriad voices singing Wel-
come the new inhabitant of Heaven, enter in-
to the Joy of thy Lord.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	"Her Majesty has outlived nearly all the men
who surrounded her throne when she was first
placed upon it. Only one man of the Cabinet
of 1837 remains. Earl Grey was the Viscount
Howick who as Secretary for War took the
oath at Kensington Palace. The name of
Lord Melbourne suggests almost another age.
Lord Palmerston, Lord John Russell, and Sir
John Cam Hobhouse have long passed away.
Lord Lansdown's great grandson inherits Bos-
wood. We believe that there are only three
members of the present Parliament who were
in the Parliament of 1837. These are Mr.
Gladstone, Mr. Christopher Talbot, and Mr. C.
P. Villiers."
	"The Queen has had eight Prime Ministers.
They are all gone save Mr. Gladstone. It is
not wonderful that Her Majesty sometimes
speaks as though she found herself in a world
she does not know. With her strong attach-
ment to old friends, her dislike of new faces,
and the difficulty with which she can reconcile
herself to new acquaintances—with new inter-
ests occupying men's minds in society, art, and
literature, it is no marvel that the Queen, hav-


ing spent a life for twenty-two years almost of
seclusion, hardly understands us or where we
stand. Yet to-day there is no man or woman
in England who would change her for another
monarch."

	Sometime since we published something about
Mrs. Clara T. Leonard and Governor Butler's
opinion about a woman not being a person.
The "Daily Evening Traveler" of Nov. 24,
published in Boston, Mass. contains the fol-
lowing, besides the statement in detail which is
too lengthy for our columns:
	"The full bench of the Supreme Court sent
to the Governor and Council yesterday its de-
cision upon the point raised as to whether Mrs.
Clara T. Leonard is lawfully a member of the
Board of Health, Lunacy and Charity. The
Governor declared her place vacant on the
ground that she was not a person, and made
an appointment to fill the vacancy which he
held existed. The Council declined to accept
the Governor's interpretation of the law, and
an appeal was made to the court, which now
decides that Mrs. Leonard is a "person" under
the statutes, and that she is as fully and as le-
gally a member of the board as any other one
of the eight who are her colleagues."


A CHRISTMAS STORY FROM
REAL LIFE.

	There lived, in a settlement on the frontier
of Southern Utah, in the year 1872, a family
consisting of a man and his wife and two
children; one a boy of five years, the other a
babe of three months; their home, a rude hut
made of lumber and willows covered with can-
vas, indicated to the passer by they were labor-
ing under the difficulties and deprivations of a
new settlement. It was winter; and the mor-
row would be Christmas Day! The ground
was white with snow, and the few trees in the
garden looked like pyramids of crystal; for na-
ture's misty king had paid them a visit the
night before and scattered his shining pearls
around. Old Sol was smiling, and nature
looked grandly beautiful! but to the woman in
that humble cot everything was dark and
dreary. She was thinking, what had she for
Christmas dinner? Where were the turkey
and other delicacies that should grace the
table? Bread and butter were the only con-
tents of her cupboard. To the mother the
dinner was only of secondary importance; she
thought of the little stockings that should be
hung up that evening, and the presents that
she would like to put in and around them. But
she had no money to buy with, and the coun-
try furnished no such luxuries.
	Their relatives, who lived in the north, had
plenty. Her brother-in-law had gone to Salt
Lake City and he was expected home soon.
Would they send presents by him? A ray of
hope was in that thought, for her friends had
been very kind to her. But would he be
home to-night? She feared not. In the midst
of her cogitations a bright little fellow came
running in.
	"Oh, ma! Santa Claus will be here to-night.
You must hang up my stocking."
	"I am afraid, my boy, Santa Claus will not
visit us; we are too poor."
	"Mean, old thing! not to come because we
're poor; he ought to come all the more. I
know ma! Uncle Ralph's gone to Salt Lake


[Column 1]
City, and grandpa will give Santa Claus money
and send him in uncle's wagon."
	"My son, I fear Uncle Ralph cannot get
here to-night."
	"Don't cry, ma, if the cross, old Santa Claus
does not come to-night he will be better na-
tured by New Year's, and then he will bring
us lots of presents. What a jolly time we will
have! Never mind the stocking ma—here
comes pa!" and away he ran laughing to meet
his father.
	Christmas came and passed as the mother
had predicted, and no Santa Claus; though a
ray of hope had entered her heart from the in-
nocent prattle of her little son, and she looked
forward with some degree of pleasure for the
coming of New Year's Eve. The week drag-
ged slowly by, but at last the welcome sound
of Uncle Ralph's "get up George!" to his team
was heard. The mother's heart leapt for joy,
for it was New Year's Eve. The joyous voice
of her boy was soon heard.
	"Now, ma, here is Uncle Ralph! Come and
see if he has brought Santa Claus."
	"My child, your uncle is weary and will
want his supper; we will not trouble him yet."
	"Oh, ma! just ask him if he has brought
Santa Claus. Of course Santa Claus will no
come until I am in bed, only let me know."
	"I think your uncle has brought him, but
here is your father! we will have our supper
first, for it is getting late."
	The little fellow could scarcely eat his sup-
per he was so excited.
	Said he, "I wonder what I shall have? I
hope it will be a horse and wagon, and marbles;
how I would like a drum! but I suppose Santa
Claus will think I am not big enough. I want
lots of candy. Pa likes candy, don't you pa?
What will baby have? A rattle I suppose; he
is too little for anything else." And he drew
himself up with an air of importance. "A nice
dress for you ma. Oh, dear! I wonder what
else."
	The mother listened with pleasure to the
prattle of her little one, hoping yet fearing,
while the father looked smilingly on and said
but little.
	"Pa, why don't you talk, don't you think
grandpa has sent Santa Claus?"
	"I hope, my son, he has, for ma's sake and
your's. You must not be disapointed if he
has not."
	"Oh, but I shall pa! for they've got lots of
things up there and we have so little here."
	"I think he has, my son, so go to bed and
dream of the horse and wagon."
	"Yes, my boy," said the mother, "go to bed
and ma will hang up your stocking; I think it
will be full in the morning.
	After the mother had put her son to bed
she crossed the garden to the house of her
brother-in-law. A rap on the door, and at the
well-known sound of the "come in" of a country
place, she entered.
	"How do you do Ralph? I hope you have
had a pleasant journey."
	"Not very pleasant, Mary, but my health is
very good."
	"Did you see my father or brothers?
	"Well, I did see your father, I met him in
the street and had a little chat with him; I did
not see any of the rest, I was so busy I did not
call on them; I wished to get home before the
cold weather set in. What going? Oh, no, sit
down and have a chat by this warm fire.
New Year's to-morrow, Mary; a merry time."
	"Not to-night, Ralph, I must go home to the
children. Good night."
	The mother got away as quick as possible for
fear she would break down. She could scarce-
ly walk home her disapointment was so great.
As she entered her husband's face changed to
one of pity, for he saw how greatly she was dis-
appointed, but he wisely said nothing. She
threw herself into a chair and burst into tears.

[Column 2]
	"They have sent us nothing; not even a lit-
tle candy for the children. If they had sent
us some tea and sugar and some candy for the
children I would have been satisfied. Ralph
and Eliza, the cruel things, sat there and
laughed. They knew what I came for, but I
could not ask them. Selfish things! I expect
they have plenty for themselves."
	At this outburst of feeling the husband said;
	"Do not take on so, Mary, Ralph may have
something for you—you say you did not ask
him."
	"No, I felt too proud to ask him. If he had
brought anything he would have said. My
friends do not care for me; they have plenty,
and so have yours. They are all alike—sel-
fish."
	"Hush, Mary, your father and brothers
have been very kind to you. We will not al-
ways be as we are now, this place is but newly
settled."
	"Yes, John, I know that to my cost. Why
were we sent here? nobody cares for us, no, not
even the Lord."
	"Mary, why do you talk so? you are general-
ly so full of hope and thankfulness; you are
not yourself to-night."
	"Myself? no! look at that little stocking
hanging by the chimney; see that sweet face so
smiling and hopeful. I think of the morning,
when the little fellow will leap from his bed
with a joyous shout to find his stocking, empty
—empty. How can we bear the look of that
disappointed face? I do not care so much for
myself it is for my boy."
	"I think, Mary, you are mistaken; I feel
Ralph has something for you."
	"At that moment there was a tap on the door
and a laughing face peeped in, while a cheery
voice siad, "John, come and help me lift a box
out of my wagon."
	"The night is cold, Ralph, wait until morn-
ing, and I will help you unload."
	"I do not know about waiting till morning,
the box is marked M. E. L., I think Mary will
want to see her goodies."
	It was like an electric shock to the mother.
She started to her feet and exclaimed, "Oh,
Ralph! how could you be so cruel as not to
tell me?"
	"You did not ask me, Mary, so I thought I
would give you a surprise."
	"I forgive you, Ralph, but it was a very
cruel one."
	In a few minutes the men returned with a
box weighing nearly one hundred and fifty
pounds; at sight of so large a box the mother's
emotions were so great she could hardly con-
trol herself; she managed to articulate, "Come
in, Ralph, and see what my friends have sent
us."
	"No, thank you, Mary, you shall have all
the benefit of the surprise yourself, without
anyone else to share your pleasure. I wish
you much joy of your New Year's gift, and
may this be but a foretaste of the good things
to come. As it is but a short time till morn-
ing I will be a little hasty, and wish you a
happy and prosperous new year. Good
night."
	And away he tripped with a merry whistle,
feeling satisfied that he had been the means of
taking a load from that mother's heart, and of
sending a ray of sunshine into that humble
abode.
	"Now, Mary, what do you think of the good-
ness of the Lord and the kindness of your re-
latives?"
	"Say no more, John. I am ashamed of my
weakness; I feel that I have been almost wicked
in my repinings; I acknowledge my fault to
you, and will humbly ask the Lord's forgiv-
ness."
	"Well, well, Mary, do not feel so bad, it was
natural that you would be bitterly disappoint-
ed. Now for the axe; I know you will not

[Column 3]
sleep until your box is opened; I do not think
I would, and of course we must fill the child-
ren's stockings. How pleased the dear boy
will be when he finds that Santa Claus has
been here."
	One—two strokes—there, it is open. "Look
first, Mary, I will shut my eyes."
	"Oh, John, see! how many things. A nice
dress for me, two hoods and sacques for baby,
how pretty! dresses and shoes for baby, hat,
suit and shoes for Johnney, and here is the horse
and wagon and marbles he wished for, and a
small bucket of candy set off with the glorious
flag of our country. How the boy will shout
when he sees them. Here is a trumpet and
rattle for baby; look, John! here is tea, sugar
and rice, cans of salmon, lobster and oysters,
raisins, currants and candied peel, with a few
green apples; these are for mince pies; no tur-
key, but a ham instead; jars of preserve, a bot-
tle of brandy and one of whiskey—for sick-
ness I suppose. Spices—ha! ha! as sure as I
live a bologne sausage as long as my arm! oh,
dear! I do not know how they got so many
things in the box. Do not let us take any
more out or we will not know where to put
them."
	"Mary, I feel quite slighted; I do not see
anything for me."
	"Nonsense, John, what does a great fellow
like you want of anything; besides, they knew
you would get most of the good things, and to
prove it I will open this can of lobsters and
make you a glass of brandy and water, that
you may drink their health, and mine, too, if
you like, for I feel very well, thank you."
	The mother had very little sleep that night.
Her heart was full of gratitude to her Heaven-
ly Father for his goodness, and she humbly
asked His forgiveness for her want of faith in
Him. She thought of the kindness of her
friends, and prayed that the Lord might bless
them through the coming year. Then her
thoughts wandered to her sleeping boy; how he
would clap his hands and shout for joy when
he saw his presents; and again she thanked the
Lord for his goodness.
	Day was beginning to break, when a little
head was raised from the pillow, and a hushed
voice said;
	"Ma, are you awake?"
	"Yes, my son."
	"Did Santa Claus come? Did you see him?
May I get up and see?"
	Before his ma could answer he espied the
full stockings with the other things hanging
around them; he sprang from his bed with a
joyous shout.
	"Oh, ma, pa, look! get up and see what lots
of things Santa Claus has brought us. I told
you he would be better natured by New
Year's."
	The tears came to the mother's eyes, and she
thought how little those living in affluence re-
alize the pleasure they could give their friends,
who were not so favored, by imparting to them
a little of their substance.
	Since that time the settlement has gradually
developed; other children have been added to
that little family; the little stockings have
been yearly hung up, and Santa Claus has
never failed to pay his accustomed visit.
					M. ELIZABETH LITTLE.


106	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Nothing so increases reverence for others as
a great sorrow to one's self. It teaches one
the depths of human nature. In happiness we
are shallow and deem others so.—Charles Bux-
ton.
	However early in the morning you seek the
gate of access, you find it already open: and
however deep the midnight hour when you find
yourself in the sudden arms of death, the
winged prayer can bring an instant Saviour
near.—James Hamilton.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 107


REMEMBRANCES OF THE OLD
LION HOUSE DAYS.

'Tis Christmas Eve, and a freezing night,
As I sit by the grate a lonesome wight,
When up from the coals springs an odd figure,
Than my fore finger not much bigger;
He smiles at my start of deep surprise,
Answering then my questioning eyes—
"Oh" he says, "I'm the Christmas elf,
Have I never been seen by yourself
On a misty, frosty Christmas morning?"
Up to my knee he springs, all scorning
The start I give of cowardly fear
To have so strange a being so near,
And pointing into the grate says, "look!"
Down fall the coals like leaves of a book;
A picture forms as they fall aside
Of a hall both long, and low and wide,
With rows of doors now opened all,
To let the children into the hall;
I hear the echo of shout and call,
As they greet each other with merry glee;
"Christmas gift," and I smile when I see
The girls hold plaster-of-paris dolls,
The boys are tossing their leather balls;
I turn to the elf upon my knee
To ask a question—"look, now!" says he;
A fall of the coals has changed the view;
The opening doors are there, it is true,
But the hall is high and light as well,
And down the stairs is rushing pell mell
A crowd of children, their gifts to find,
Bestowed by father so nobly kind.

The older girls scream with delight
As they find a stove polished so bright,
With tiny kettles, very complete,
A cast-iron stove, small, handy and neat;
The little girls reach the height of their wishes
Finding for each a new set of dishes.
What dinners were planned with dishes and stoves,
Invitations are issued, one might say in droves;
The boys are happy with drums, swords and skates,
With books, and marbles, and whips, and slates;
Such greetings, such fun, such laughter, such noise,
Sure never was heard from girls or from boys.
I try to peep into one of the rooms,
And down fall the coals, and up there looms
A room so long, with tables all spread
And children around them, and up at the head
Sits a man with a noble majestic air,
Keen, kind blue eyes and bright brown hair,
And he smiles when he sees his children's joy,
While he prays that Satan may none destroy.

The turkey, and chicken, and pumpkin pies
Load down the tables, and the children's eyes
Are silently picking out that piece of cake
Which, when the time comes, they will take.
The coals are slowly falling apart,
I look at the elf with throbbing heart,
But he points down to the grate, and so
I look at the scenes spread out below.
They pass along, and each one leaves
A throbbing pain as of one who grieves;
In every scene is the dusky hall,
The opening doors and the merry call,
And in the toes of each stocking stout
The package of candies measured out,
The mothers look with happy gaze
Upon their children's merry plays,
And into every changing view
The father's presence goes through and through,
Until, at last, the fire dies down;
From my knee jumps the elf with a frown;
Up the chimney on a spark flies he,
And cries, as he goes, "you'll never be
More blest and happy than when a child."
I roused myself, and almost smiled,
To think the scenes had such a seeming
Of very truth, when I'd been dreaming.
									HOMESPUN.


FLIRTATION.

	This is something that right thinking minds
always have, and always will condemn, but
the majority do not, if we are to judge from
their actions.
	In the world there is a class of ladies and


gentlemen, who tamper with the affections as
if they were mere toys; who think it is a great
achievement to win hearts and cast them away
as unfeelingly as they would the pebbles on
the sea shore. The laws of men condemn to
death those who deprive their fellow-beings of
life, but there is no law of human origin that
can reach the murderers of peace and confi-
dence, but sooner or later the hand of God
reaches them, and the anguish of a guilty and
remorseful conscience is the harvest of the seed
they have sown.
	This cruel, unfeeling custom, practiced by
many of both sexes, is one great cause of the
doubt and distrust that holds such universal
sway on earth; the evil is apparent, but who
can stay its progress? Surely it should have
no place here with the people God has chosen
to restore to earth faith, truth and confidence.
I believe there are but few who realize the ex-
tent of this evil, few who think how much easi-
er it is to lose than to regain, and that when
we once lose confidence in one it plants a doubt
in our hearts concerning all, which it may take
years to eradicate.
	It has always been a marvel to me how any-
one possessing any feeling of humanity, any
sense of right and justice could trifle with the
purest and holiest feelings of the soul, merely
to satisfy their selfish vanity. The one princi-
ple taught by Jesus—"Do unto others as we
would have others do unto us," if faithfully
obeyed, would effectually rid the earth of this
evil, and many others which afflict mankind.
								S. E. R.


[Column 1]
PROMPTINGS OF THE HOLY SPIRIT.

DEAR SISTERS:
	It is with pleasure that I sit down to write a
few lines for the paper. "When I am dictated
by the Holy Spirit to write, then is the time
that I feel that I want to respond to the dicta-
tions of that spirit. If we try to do whatever
we are called upon by that spirit we will find
that we will be greatly benefited by so doing.
One may ask, "How can we know when it is
the Spirit of our Heavenly Father, or whether
it is from the evil one?" We read in the thirty-
fifth section of the old edition of the Doctrine
and Covenants, how to distinguish these differ-
ent promptings. If it is the Spirit of our
Heavenly Father that dictates us to do certain
things we will feel a burning influence within
our bosom, but if it is from the evil one we
will have no such feelings.		*	*	*
Now, if there are any of us that may have a
manifestation given unto us that we cannot un-
derstand who it is from, the only true way that
I have found out is by bowing myself before
our Heavenly Father, and humbly and sincere-
ly ask if it was He that dictated me, or if it
was from another source, and I have never
rose from my knees without He made it known
unto me whether it was right or not; but, sisters,
we must remember that faith is required in or-
der to have our prayers answered. We have
got to put just as much confidence in Him
when we ask for anything as if He were stand-
ing before us, and we were personally talking
to Him or our prayers will not be answered;
for remember, our guardian angel is always
around us, who knows our thoughts, whether
we are sincere or not.	*	*	Yet some
of us have more faith than others, but we know
that there are different gifts given unto the
Church, some have one gift; and some have an-
other; so if we have the gift of faith let us ex-
ercise it in doing some good, though we may
feel that all the good we can do will not
amount to anything, but remember that,

"little drops of water,
	little grains of sand,
Makes the mighty ocean
	And the pleasant land.

[Column 2]
And perhaps with our efforts and little deeds,
though they may seem to us very small, may
be the means of doing a great work in years
to come; so don't let us think there is not any-
thing to do, but let us feel there is no end of
doing good, and that we cannot do enough,
and let us spend our days worthy of imitation,
for we all know that our mission on earth is
short, and what is the use of us struggling to
obtain a lot of earthly riches, when we know
that we have got to go and leave it all behind?
"We ought to rather store up our riches in. hea-
ven where we will be sure to obtain them again
for there neither thieves nor robbers can take
them from us. These are the kind of riches we
ought to seek after, and not after things that
will cause us to lose faith in our Heavenly
Father. Before closing my remarks I feel like
bearing my testimony to the truth of this work;
I know for myself that this is the Church of
God we are engaged in, for I have many testi--
monies to bear.
	I will now testify to one, and that is the gift
of healing. In my childhood days I was tak-
en sick with a fever, which fell upon one of my
limbs and left a running sore, which continued
to run until I was getting up into my teens, and
then I began to think of the promises that had
been made to me many a time by the servants
of God, and especially of the time when I re
ceived the ordinances of the Lord's house, for
they promised me there that I should be made
whole and become healthy and strong; and as I
sat pondering over these things I knelt down
and asked my Heavenly Father in mighty
faith to heal me from my afflictions as had been
promised, and that I might obtain all blessings
that were in store for me. I rose from my
knees, took the oil, anointed the afflicted part
and drest it up again for a week; I then un-
dressed it, it looked much better. I then
prayed and anointed it again, and never looked
at it again for two weeks; when I looked at it
the next time it was perfectly whole, and has
ever since remained so. Now, sisters, is this
notastroug testimony to me that God hears
our prayers? If we only had faith there would
be no end of receiving blessings from our Hea-
venly Father. Ever praying for the Associa-
tion I remain your sister in the Gospel,
					ELIZABETH SMITH.
	Manuscript Paper, Young Ladies Herald of
Union, Spanish Fork, Nov. 14th, 1883.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Still I am learning.—Michael Angelo.

	We are shaped and fashioned by what we
love.—Goethe.

	Many a woman who does not know even the
multiplication table can "figure in society."—
Yonkers Statesman.

	Religion is reproached with not being pro-
gressive; it makes amends by being imperish-
able.—J. Martineau.

	The women of Washington Territory can
vote, and are equal before the law with their
husbands and brothers. There is great rejoic-
ing in consequence of the passage of the bill
granting the right of suffrage to women. A
grand ratification meeting was held. There
was "booming of cannon and ringing of bells."
Addresses of congratulation by noted people.
and letters and telegrams were read congratu-
latory of the success. The affair ended with a
magnificent banquet.
	We add our most sincere congratulations
also, and believe it is a decided step towards
the advancement of the Territory.
	Governor Newell, of W. T., signed the bill
granting the suffrage of women at 11:40 a. m.,
Nov. 22nd, 1883, with a gold pen, presented to
him for the purpose by the ladies of Olympia.


108	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, DECEMBER 15, 1883.


[Column 1]
VARIOUS METHODS.
	One can scarcely item[-]ze the bills that are be-
ing introduced into Congress to settle the "Mor-
mon" question. And this is not all, the Presi-
dent of the United States, the Chief Executive
of this great and free Republic, recommends
Congress to annul the organic act from which
Utah derived her power of government, and
place her people under a national commission,
to be appointed by him and confirmed by
the Senate. In regard to this matter it is dif-
ficult to express one's self, such an idea is so far
removed from the spirit of the Constitution, or
even the letter thereof. Of all the several bills,
that of Senator Lapham is the most ridiculous.
It is sufficient to convince those who know, how
little people outside really do know of the actual
circumstances of the "Mormons." To pass laws
to destroy statutes that never had an existence
is an inconsistency, that is new enough to be
original. Senator Lapham has an original
method of solving the problem, but unfortu-
nately for him there is no material to work up-
on, as there never was any law passed in the
Utah Courts, or the Legislature of the Territory,
which recognized plural marriage, consequently
there is no such statute to annul. Congress is
the only authority on this subject, except the
Ecclesiastical authority. Congress has twice de-
cided to legitimatize the children born in plural
marriage, once in 1862 and again in 1882, this is
more of an acknowedgement of the validity of
this order of marriage than the Legislature or
statutes of Utah have ever demonstrated. In
reference to these matters one can but use the
proverb so apropos to the matter. "Man pro-
pose but God disposes." All nations are in the
hands of Him who turns and overturns king-
doms and powers at his will. It is not only that
Congress is besieged to "wipe out the Mor-
mons," but ministers and editors are entreated
to lend their aid to accomplish the work. What
do these people fear? Mormonism is not popu-
lar, the doctrine of plural marriage is offensive,
therefore the United States has no occasion to
fear that it will find a great number of converts.
There is too much sacrifice to be made, it re-
quires laying all upon the altar of one's faith.
A complete consecration. There are only a few
people in the world who are willing to take up-
on themselves such sacred obligations. It
seems as though the world are more "scared"
of "Mormonism" than "Mormons" are of the
unjust legislation and persecution waged against
them and their institutions.
	Religious papers advocating the sword to be
used "to cut the cancer out" seems incredible,
and yet it is true in many instances. Is this ac-
cording to the teachings of our Savior, the
great Master, the examplar for all mankind? In
the editorial columns of one of the oldest and

[Column 2]
most influential newspapers published in Bos-
ton, we find the following extreme language
usd:
	"The Salt Lake City of the ancient world
was Sodom.	*	*	The evaporations of
the Dead Sea steam up to the heights of Ju-
dah."
	After a great deal of very severe language the
editor says: "Has it any rights that a United
States government is bound to respect?	*
Is not the conviction now forced upon a fair
scrutiny that this sore is a cancer, and that the
only healing is to be found in cutting it out?"
etc , etc. This Doctor of Divinity is probably
not a Doctor of Medicine, or he would know that
cancers very frequently break out again after
having been removed by the knife, and were it
possible to kill all "Mormons," and so destroy
every root and fibre of "the cancer," the Gos-
pel would assuredly spring up elsewhere, for it
is not possible for man to cope with the Al-
mighty. Not only that but ere they had half
accomplished such a bloody purpose fear would
take hold upon them. How can such men as
the Rev. De Witt Talmage, Lucian E. Smith,
D. D. and Joseph E. Foster, D. D., advocate
the shedding of blood? Ministers of the Gospel
of peace. Heralds of light to a benighted
world. How pure in heart these men must be!
How can they live in New York and Boston !
But this pious editor and minister says, "We are
not sure that the people of the United States
would not uphold and approve the action of the
President who should take this matter into his
own hands, even if he had to stretch a point to
do it. They hope for very little from Congress.
Millions of them fear to see Congress assemble,
and rejoice when it adjourns. But were there
some way in which a mighty officer and captain
ike the President could gird on the sword and
make a descent on that house of ill-fame, there
would be glory in it, more than that of a third
term, for the President who undertook it—provi-
ded it be done soon." And so on and so on and a
great deal more, closing by saying, "Thirty days
of Oliver Cromwell would suffice for an honora-
ble and healthy end to the thing."
	Is this "religion pure and undefiled?" Mr.
Editor, consider a moment,—what, do the
women and children and the "Mormon" people
think when they read such sentiments as these?
The Scriptures which you profess to take for
your standard expressly say "Thou shalt not
kill." It was written by the finger of God on
the tables of stone. How do you reconcile your
views to the teachings of the Savior whom you
profess to believe in? "Vengeance is mine; I will
repay, saith the Lord." He has also said, "Fear
not him who can only destroy the body, but
fear Him who can cast both soul and body into
hell." Evidently these infuriated ministers do
not know what they are talking of, but it is time
they stopped to reflect, or if it is war to the death
let them take the advice a Mormon mother
gives to Talmage, "Head the army" them-
selves, and not ask President Arthur to do bat-
tle for them. Alas, "how have the mighty fal-
ten!"
	We as a people are in the hands of an alwise
and all-merciful Father, who will not suffer a
sparrow to fall without His notice, and though
"the heathen rage and the people imagine a
vain thing," yet will He remember those who
serve Him and keep His commandments and
the way of their escape will be sure.


LETTER ONE.

	BERNE, Switzerland, Nov. 6, 1883.
MY DEAR SISTER MELLIE:
	The scene that perhaps will interest you most
that I have seen is the beautiful country o


France. No wonder there are artists there, one
would think such a country could produce no-
thing else. We left the little steamer after a
tiresome yet rather amusing night on the Eng-
lish Channel, and took cars at Dieppe for Paris.
What I saw of Dieppe was smoky, dirty and
ugly, and my introduction in to France was any
thing but pleasant, but the town was not many
yards behind when my eyes rested on the lovli-
est scene, I thought, that I had ever beheld, but
the farther we went the more beautiful the
landscape became. I thought with the French
oh! there is nothing like "Ma Belle France."
Miles and miles of magnificent forests, all so
beautifully tinted with the autumn frosts.
Everything was gay and bright, and the
flowers thickly strewn all over the valley. I was
sorry there was no one to tell me what valley it
was, but I am pretty positive it was the valley
of the Seine and Marne, for after leaving the
one river we followed the other through to Par-
is. Since having seen Switzerland I have
learned it (France) was not the most picturesque
region, but abounded in those quiet charms
which grow upon the sympathetic traveler.
'Twas Sunday morning and the sun shone
brightly, the air was full of birds singing their
praises, and I thought that all France seemed a
grand conservatory of art and music. At one
o'clock we passed through Rouen, which is a
very beautiful place, and at three o'clock we
reached Paris. No pen can describe the loveliness
of Paris. I cast aside the soul-delight the pass-
ing panorama had given me and threw myself
wholly into the enjoyment of this most wonder-
ful city. I could only be there four hours and
in that time I "took in" the Grand Opera House
and Hotel, the shops in the Palais Royal, Les
Champs Ellyses, and then just stared at every-
thing. The buildings everywhere strnck me with
wonder and admiration; every few minutes we
would reach a restaurant where in front were a
number of little marble tables and chairs, and
peeple sat there drinking wine. They were only
wine tables. I saw more beautiful women and
elegant dresses in the few hours spent in the
streets there than I ever saw in all my life be-
fore. Those large crowned hats I wrote to Lou
about from New York are much worn, both in
London and Paris. In London the ladies do
their hair very low, in Paris very high, with
short curls in their necks. The afternoon was
lovely, and being on the principal promenades I
thought I saw the styles pretty well. I didn't
take time for dinner, though I had had nothing
to eat all day, for I wanted to see as much as
possible. Switzerland is the most beautiful, in
a natural point, of anything I have yet seen.
			Your loving sister,
								ANNIE.


LETTER TWO.

	ZURICH, Nov. 17th, 1888.
MY DEAR MOTHER:
	Switzerland delights me greatly, it is so beau-
tiful; nature has indeed favored her. The whole
country from one extent to the other abounds
in picturesque scenes. The walks are most
charming, winding as they do, now through a
grand old forest, then opening into a beautiful
green, country winding by the river side, climb-
ing over the hills; just such walks as would fill
romantic souls with poetry and song. The for-
ests, the streams, the lakes, the hills covered
with vineyards, all are lovely, but dearest of all
to me, are the grand old mountains towering in-
to the clouds. Their snow-covered peaks remind
me of home, where the Wasatch Mountains
tower towards heaven, and whose hills
and peaks I have always loved.
	Every thing I see amuses and charms me,


[Column 1]

and especially have I been delighted with Zu
rich. It is the finest city in Switzerland, and
has a life and stir about it not found in many of
the Swiss cities. The farther East one goes
there is quite a perceptible change in the habits
and ways of the people, they seem to have ad-
vanced more with the age. As we traveled
from Berne to Zarich I busied myself watching
the passing scenes, and only think, mother, at
last I have seen a castle—two of'them—at Burg-
dorf and at Aareburg. Both are beautifully sit-
uated on the top of a hill with a river winding
right beneath and overlooking a most lovely
country. When we children used to read our
fairy books and nursery rhymes, we often
wondered if we should ever see a castle, and we
used to fancy ourselves dwelling in one. A
sight of one is sufficient to dispel all desire of
living therein, for they are certainly gloomy
enough to please a Blue Beard, and they look
like prisons where the sunshine of happiness
never enters.
		BERNE, NOV. 21st. 1883.
	Dear mother, I thought it best not to finish
my letter until I had seen more of Zurich and
could tell you something of that beautiful city,
and now I have seen so much I scarcely know
where to begin; but first, when we reached
Berne yesterday afternoon we found your welcome
letter of the 3rd inst. awaiting us, and oh, we
were both so pleased with all the good news you
had to tell, and so glad that our baby and you
all were so well. I though much of you all on
father's birthday and would have liked so much
to have been there to wish him many happy re-
turns. I felt it all the same and prayed for his
happiness and long life. Every one on the ship
who knew me knew it was his birthday, and
knew, too, how it was being celebrated, and
some laughed at me for talking so much about
it, it was the one day they all thought me
home-sick. But I know you want to hear about
our journey so I return to Zurich. The first
thing that I saw was, of course, the railroad sta-
tion, and a good-description of this wonld fill
pages in itself, I cannot even attempt it,
but suffice it to say it is the most elegant sta-
tion I have yet seen, surpasses even the Gare de
Lyon at Paris. From this station is the most
beautiful street of the city, and as fine a street
as can be found anywhere. It is quite wide, and
the buildings on it are most elegant; it extends
from the station at one end to a little park at
the other, which opens on to Lake Zurich, at
the end of this street is a large bridge, just erec-
ted, which spans the arm of the lake. There
are several fine bridges crossing here, for the
lake runs right through the centre of the city,
and the two principal streets are the first on
either side of the stream, running parallel with
it. From this last bridge there is to be a beau-
tiful drive along the banks of the river,
down one side and up the other. It, with the
bridge, will cost twenty million francs. On this
beautiful street, the Bahnhof St., is situated the
large and handsome store of Henerberg, the fa-
mous silk manufacturer, we walked all around
the place and gazed in every window. Such beau-
tiful things there were—silks in every shade and
shape, from the crawling worm up to the finest
lace and brocade. One window particularly in-
teresting was where the process of silk manu-
facture was displayed. There were the worms,
the cocoons, the first spun silk, the raw silk, the
fine silk, and the pretty butterflies. I wonder if
this beautiful dress is the reward this homely
little worm receives for his industry. We didn't
only walk around this wonderful place, but we
walked in finally. There was one window filled
with lace work, and I thought of Mell, how she
would enjoy looking at that. The lovliest hon-
iton point I ever saw. Speaking of the silk in-

[Column 2]

dustry makes me think of our own feeble at-
tempts at home in this line. There are some
sisters in our Church in Zurich who have al-
ways worked in this industry, and who are very
poor, would it not be to the advantage of both if
those working so hard to promote this industry
at home would emigrate some of these sisters. I
dined with one who spools the silk, she has such
a lovely machine, can wind fourteen spools at
once; there are several in the branch who work
with the silk in different ways. One young sis-
ter is a hand weaver and makes silk handker-
chiefs, etc.	*	*	*	*	*
	It would fast suit you the way the houses are
built and the grounds laid out. It is not even and
particular, but the vines and trees and flowers
are just beautiful and there is a wildness about it
which just makes it more romantic and delightful
than these little flower-bordered lawns could
possibly do. There is a very fine university
here, but they tell me at these universities the
chief honor is not to learn the sciences, etc., but
to carry a scarred face, and I readily believe it
when I see the students. They all dress fine
and wear the queerest kind of hats, signifying
that they belong to a certain club, and they all
have the most dreadful scars on their faces, the
more scars they have the prouder they feel.
	We left Zurich Tuesday morning and at noon
reached Winterthur, a very old city, noted per-
haps more for age than anything else. In the
upper part of the city are the ruins of an old
Roman fort, built in the time of Ceaser and
called by him Winterdorum.
	We spent a few hours in this place very pleas-
antly, met some of our Church members, such
nice people and they are all so glad to see us
and treat us so kindly.
	We left Winterthur in the afternoon for
Shafthausen. This was a beautiful ride, and for
a long way was right along the banks of the
river Rhine. We reached this place at six
o'clock and went to see a Bro. Haage, a very
good man, he has quite a nice home here and a
lovely family. We stayed here over night, a
meeting was held in the evening where I met
almost all the members here, they are a very
nice, cheerful people and I very much enjoy
meeting with them. They sing beautifully, and
seem to have such a good spirit within them.
We left Shafthausen early in the morning
wishing to walk to the Rhine Falls before tak-
ing the train. It was abont an hour's walk and
we quite enjoyed it, for the scene after leaving
the narrow streets was very beautiful. This is
also a very old city, having been begun in the
ninth century. Wine making and agriculture
are the chief industries, though there are also
large watch factories here. At last we reached
the falls. At Niagara one is struck dumb with
wonder, but here one sees just enough grandeur
and beauty to loosen his tongue and he can rave
over the foaming waters to his heart's content.
The scene is very impressive, for the water
gushes over the rocks, through them and under
them, and then right upon the side at the top
of the precipice stands an old ruined castle.
Some parts of it have been fitted up for tourists
during the summer months. Here was a sta-
tion where we took train for Basel, we rode for
miles along the banks of the Rhine with the
vine-covered hills of Switzerland on one side
and the broad country of Germany on the other.
We were soon on the German side, and every
now and then along the road we passed a cruci-
fix where the passers by stop and cross them-
selves, the women bow and the men uncover
their heads.
	The head dress the women wear is so funny.
It is a wide black ribbon fashioned into a little
bonnet and then long black ribbons hanging
down to the bottom of their dresses. This is Ba-

[Column 3]

den style. We reached Basel early in the after
noon and after John Q. had attended to his bus-
iness affairs there, we walked around the city a
little. 'Tis a large town, has some fine hotels
and buildings, but is not a pleasant place, at
least so I thought. I never saw so many
Churches anywhere in my life. The bridges
here are very fine, in fact I believe Switzerland
delights more in bridges than anything else.
The Rhine runs right through Basel and there
are some elegant bridges spanning it. We
walked across it once or twice and I thought
what a lovely river the Rhine was, no wonder
it is so famous, and yet I have seen so little of
it. How grand it must be to go all along its
banks and view its ruined castles, its ever
changing scenes. The following morning we
left Basel for Berne, stopping only once at Lies-
thal for an hour where we visited the brother
of Bro. Goss and another family.
	I hope you are not worn out with this long
letter. I know you want to know where I go
and what I see, and have tried to give you a
simple if not a well written account. John Q.
joins me in love to you all, our mother, fathers,
sisters, brothers, aunts, uncles, nieces, nephews,
friends and precious little baby.
	Your loving daughter,
		ANNIE WELIS CANNON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 109


AN INDIGNANT MORMON MOTHER.

DEAR EDITOR:
	I felt very indignant when I read the "reliable
information" that Mrs. Newman had given the
ladies of Cincinnati concerning the Mormons in
their domestic relations. How could a woman
who had been to Utah and seen our comforta-
ble homes, our pleasant surroundings and our
people, and talked with them as she said she had
tell such wicked falsehoods? It was all as false
as false could be. But the ladies who heard her
no doubt swallowed it as a sweet morsel. They
would rather hear stories like that about Utah
than hear the truth. "A generous contribution
was given at the close of the service," which
will likely go into the lecturer's pocket instead
of being used to benefit the "poor, degraded
Mormons." I felt that if I were near her I
would give her "a piece of my mind," but not
having that opportunity I take this privilege of
speaking in my own defense through the EXPO-
NENT.
	I am one of those Mormon women that she
so wilfully misrepresented, and I know of no
"chains of bitter degradation and bondage." I
entered into plural marriage of my own free
will, because I knew it was right. I believed
that God had a right to reveal His laws in this
our day, and because I believed that I had the,
right to obey those laws and thereby show my
faith by my works. I chose to obey God rather
than Congress. I have never regretted the step
I took. God has blessed me for honoring that
law; I am satisfied, contented, and happy in my
home. I love my husband, his family and my
children. I do not have to "take liquor or opi-
um" to keep me from going mad, or to drown
any feelings of bitterness within my heart. I
have no time or disposition to indulge in bitter
feelngs towards any one. I am earnestly en-
gaged attending to my own affairs, working out
my own salvation. The Spirit of God makes
me happy. I am not in need of the sympathy
or the aid of our Christian friends, but I am
proud of being a "plural Mormon wife." Talk
about women being slaves in bondage, and hav-
ing to sustain that order of marriage to please
the men, is worse than nonesense. It is absurd.
If the women did not know for themselves that
that principle was true, or if they did not wish
to embrace plural marriage, where is the man or


[Column 1]
set of men who could compel them to do so? I
am surprised that a woman should have such a
limited knowledge of the nature and disposition
of her sex as Mrs. Newman shows by her re-
marks. Women know as well as men that the
Gospel of Jesus Christ is true, and having this
knowledge they are just as anxious to practice
the principles of righteousness as the men are.
Women very frequently decline to marry good,
steady, single young men and marry one who
has a family. Why? Because they believe
they have the right to marry the man of their
choice, and if they choose to marry a man who
already has a wife they think it is nobody's bus-
iness but their own. If Mrs. Newman calls it
prostitution for a man to live with his wives,
support them and educate their children; what
does she call that which the world practice,
where men only acknowledge one wife, but
have mistresses in secret, and do not own
their children, but cast them off. She
didn't say anything about the thousands
of women who are betrayed every year in
the world, where the one wife system prevails.
Nor did she speak of the multitude of children
who are fatherless, made so by the corruption
of their parents, who throng the streets of the
great cities of the East. How much "love, ten-
derness and care" is lavished upon those ragged,
half-starved little waifs who get a living by
stealing, begging, or by any way except hones-
ty.
	We believe in obeying the first great com-
mand that God gave to man, multiply and re-
plenish the earth, and we, unlike some Christian
ladies, do not employ any unlawful means to
prevent having offspring. We look upon child-
ren as a great blessing, as a heritage from God,
and no Latter-day Saint is satisfied to live in a
childless home. We are taught that children
come from the presence of God our Father, and
that it is a privilege to have a body and gain an
experience on the earth. We also believe that
their spirits will return to God if they keep His
laws while on the earth. Believing this, how is
it reasonable to say that we have no affection
for our children. They are the light and joy of
the household, they are the future hope of Isra-
el. They are all well provided for with every
thing that love can suggest. Loving parents
and teachers spare no pains to instil into their
youthful minds principles that if practiced will
make them good men and women in this life
and exalt them in the presence of God. I know
that this is true. I have been born and raised
in this Church. I can testify that I have never
been taught to do wrong, but all my instruc-
tions have been to be honest, truthful, virtuous,
kind and obedient, to treat others as I would
like to be treated. When children are disobedi-
ent and take a course that leads them into sin,
parents know no keener sorrow.
	Mrs. Newman says hundreds of child-
ren attend the Christian schools, and
hundreds more would apostatize did they
dare and a shelter were provided. Dear
me! Who has provided a shelter for those who
have already dared to apostatize? Do they not
remain in our midst without being molested?
Let our Christian friends provide a shelter and
give those who are afraid an opportunity to flee
from us, for if there are any of that class among
us they are welcome to "flee," for we want no
"cowards in our band who will their colors fly.,'
The Latter-day Saints know no fear, only the
fear of displeasing God. They are like Lord
Nelson was when a child, when his grandmoth-
er told him she thought fear would drive him
home he said, "What is fear, I never saw it."
We know it is false. Our Heavenly Father
knows it is false. He knows our out-goings,

[Column 2]
our in-comings, and the desires of our hearts; He
hears our prayers and knows our hopes. He has
preserved us in the past; He will do so in the
future. He also knows what our enemies are
doing. He knows their plans and secret combi-
nations, and He will reward them according to
their deeds of darkness, and some day they will
find themselves outside the gates of the "city,"
among those who "love and make a lie;" while
the despised and persecuted Mormons will have
an inherltance with the apostles and patriarchs
of old, with Jesus Christ as their King.
						M. E. TEASDALE.

	Nephi, Dec. 11th, 1883.


110
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


REFLECTIONS.

	Do you think we would be prepared for the
coming of our Savior to earth if we adhered to
the proposal of the Rev. Henry Ward Beecher?.
For me I should rather accept the message of
the angel to the Prophet Joseph, who requires
all to strictly observe and keep the commands
of Jesus, which He gave when He dwelt upon
the earth. To such He gives a portion of His
Spirit that the same results will follow in ac-
cordance with their faith. Thousands know this
for themselves but not for another. But oh!
the power that worldly pursuits have to obliter-
ate these truths if we neglect to be faithful In
thanking Him for these blessings and ask divine
aid in the future.
	A thrill of joy took possession of my mind up-
on hearing the recital of the three watchmen
who saw the beautiful phenomenon, Nov. 20th,
at about half past five in the morning. It seems
the light was of a beautiful pinkish hue, which
moved to Ensign Peak and rested upon its top
fifteen minutes, then loomed up into the hea-
vens about one hundred feet, where it remained
until sun rise dispersed it from view. I think
it is a good omen. I always look upon Ensign
Peak as a sacred spot, or at least will be so,
when the flag of every nation will be unfurled
to the breeze, welcoming all nations to the King-
dom of God, for He say, "All who will come,
may come and drink of the waters of life free-
ly."
	You will find the testimony of these gentle,
men in the Evening News of November 21st,
1833.	M. E. K.


R S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

THE WHITECHAPEL BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY,
LONDON.

	By the emigration of the late President,
Elizabeth Young, and one of her Counselors,
Susan Witpin, it became necessary that this
society shonld be reorganized, President Gar-
ner having notified the Conference President,
E. H. Nye, of the position of affairs, and he
attended the meeting of the branch on Sunday,
Oct. 21st, 1883, when a reorganization of the
society was effected. The following Elders
were likewise present and assisted Elder Pic-
ket: viz. Elders Clawson and Denney.
	Towards the close of the afternoon meeting
Prest. H. Garner made a few remarks relative
to the proceedings about to take place. Prest.
E. H. Nye then followed with a brief but in-
structive address appropriate to the occasion.
He said, sisters appointed to leading positions
in the church should believe in and teach all
the principles of the Gospel, not simply be-
lieving in some of them, and rejecting others.
	Elder Picket then followed in a similar
strain and pointed out that the sisters about to
be chosen to fill these vacancies should be the
best women in the branch. President Garner
then proposed Sister Mary Garner to be Presi-


dent of the Relief Society; Sisters Mary Wa-
terfall and Harriet Heath, Counselors; Sister
Ann Gill to continue to act as Secretary. This
was seconded in each case, put to the vote and
carried unaaimously. Sister Mary Garner was
set apart under the hands of Prest. E. H. Nye,
Sister Waterfall under the hand of Elder Pic-
ket, and Sister Gill under the hands of Elder
Clawson, Sister H. Heath not being present.
Prest. H. Garner said it gave him great satis-
faction and even joy that the several names
he had submitted had receieved the entire ap-
proval of Prest. Nye and the rest of the breth-
ren. He then proposed that the society thus
organized should hold their first meeting Oct.
28th, seconded by A. R. Clark, carried unani-
mously.	ALEXANDER R. CLARK,
	Branch Secretary.


OUR TRAVELS BEYOND THE 
MISSISSIPPI.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	Wednesday, 4th, we remained in our tents.
Early that morning the band came and played
for the benefit of President Young and breth-
ren.  In the afternoon, they having received
an invitation from the people of Farmington
to play, went after obtaining the mind of the
President, where John Kay, our favorite song-
ster, sang one of his best, "The sea, the sea."
They were treated with the greatest respect
and kindness, and given an excellent supper at
the Galt House, and afterwards escorted a mile
towards the camp. My husband and brother
William accompanied the band, and according
to the former record they "returned to camp
about 9 p.m. This day Bishop Miller left camp
and went ahead to seek a new place. Brother
Kimball's family and our own all continue
well, hearty and in good spirits."
	The following little incident occurred in the
early part of our journey. Two or more of
father's young wives were walking behind the
wagons when night overtook them and the
wagons being out of sight, and, not daring to
proceed alone, they stopped at a farm house
where they were kept all night and treated to
the best the house afforded. The nicest room
they had—belonging to their only son—was
given them to sleep in, and after breakfast he
escorted them to the camp, which though but
a little distance off was hidden under a high
hill to the left of the road. Father had cau-
tioned his wives and folks about lingering be-
hind, and this had a tendency to make them re-
member it.
	My husband wrote, "Thursday, 4th, struck
our tents about ten a.m.—had not proceeded
more than ten or fifteen rods when the axletree
of one of father's wagons was broken, in conse-
quence had to leave it behind and put the load
on our other wagons. I went two miles ahead
on horseback to a little place called Bonaparte
—at this place we crossed the Des Moines
River and camped after going a short distance,
having made only three miles this day. I then
proceeded two miles further to Bro. Kimball's 
encampment, who with several others, includ-
ing the artillery, had stopt on the open prai-
rie."
	"Friday, 6th. After having struck our tents
*	*	*	Bro. Kimball and family
went on, I waited till our folks came up and
proceeded about six miles to Indian Creek,
where we arrived at two p.m., and took up our
quarters for the night—they having made
eight miles to-day—very bad muddy going." 
	"Saturday, 7th. Before starting this morn-
ing a man living in the neighborhood, four
miles south of Keosauqua, by the name of
Cochrun, came to our camp and laid claim to a
yoke of father's oxen, saying that they had
strayed or been stolen from him three years


[Column 1]
p﻿reviously. To avoid disturbance father paid
him $30 in gold, and about ten o'clock a.m.
struck our tents and traveled about nine miles
and encamped on a small creek by the side of
the road."
	Towards morning father was sent for to
return to Bishop Whitney's camp. Next
day Bro. Markham arrived, bringing the news
of the birth of a son to my father's wife, Sarah
Ann. This was the 8th day of March, and
the child was called David, as also the valley
where he was born. Next day towards even-
ing father and President Young went to Bish-
op Whitney's camp and blessed the child. The
same evening Bro. Wm. Clayton with the
band came up and camped with us, for which
we were all glad, as they entertained us every
evening when in camp. This place where we
were camped was called Richard's Point, on
the borders of a small wood. The majority of
the camp of Israel were there, where we were
obliged to remain over a week in consequence
of stormy weather.
	My husband wrote.—"The number of souls
in Zion's camp, this side of the Mississippi, at
the present time somewhat exceeds 2,000.
Wm. Kimball conveyed Sarah Ann in an easy
carriage to the camp this day. Before leaving
the Valley of David father (Bishop Whitney)
had the good luck to exchange a span of horses
for two yoke of oxen and thirty bushels of
corn, with a man living in the vicinity."
	The band having received an invitation from
the people of Keosauqua to come and play,
they went on the 10th and 11th, and the Court
House was crowded with an appreciative audi-
ence. They received an invitation to repeat
their concert the next evening, which they did,
were also invited by the citizens to take a ride
on a "light boat," and as they neared the land-
ing a cannon was fired twice. At this place
they cleared about $30. Concerning that place
Horace says in his journal: "This place, the
county seat of Van Buren County, lies about
ten miles east of our present encampment on
the Des Moines. Wednesday, the 11th, in ac-
cordance with the invitation the band went
again to Keosauqua, Wm. and myself accom-
panied them."
	"Thursday, 12th. Very stormy—the rain
has fallen almost incessantly since Tuesday
last. To-day received a letter from Watter-
man Phelps, stating the general news in Nau-
voo, among which was that Wm. Smith and
George A. Adams had arrived there and were
about to organize the church—that John E.
Page and Rufus Beach had joined the Strang-
ites—that Luke Johnson was again received
into the church on Sunday, the 8th—that Col.
Kane was there and was to leave on the 10th
inst—that the ice had got out of the river and
the steamboats were running, etc., etc."
	This was quite a newsy letter, and all these
things were interesting to a people who were
traveling away from their homes, never more to
behold them. But there was no mourning nor
lamentations, we felt too glad to have made our
escape. And the first evening after the warm
sun had dried the earth, the young people
were out dancing by moonlight—determined
upon being happy, or at least to snatch all the
pleasant moments and enjoy them as they came
along. Some of the camp were already pros-
trated with chills and fever in consequence of
want and exposure. It now rained almost in-
cessantly, and Bishop Whitney's daughter, Sar-
ah Ann, was in a critical state part of the time
while there. And Mother Whitney, who
stayed with her daughter, and, like all the rest
was exposed to cold and wet, took the rheuma-
tism, and it settled in her left wrist, which had
been broken the previous winter by jumping
from a buggy when the horse became frigh-
tened one evening as she was returning from
the Temple. She could not be convinced that
it was broken, although the Bishop's father,

[Column 2]
who was a doctor, told her that it was broken,
and that she ought to have a doctor to set it,
he being then too old to attend to it himself.
Her hand and arm commenced to wither away,
and one day while on the journey Father John
Smith called to her tent to see her, and notic-
ing her hand and wrist enquired into the cause
and seemed to feel greatly interested in her be-
half. He called for a bottle of consecrated oil
and administered it with prayer and mighty
faith, and he prophesied that flesh should come
upon that arm and hand, which was literally
fulfilled, though the wrist was out of place.
	Horace continues.—"Richard's Point, where
we are now located, is situated on Chequest
Prairie, and here we are likely to remain for
some time at least, as the roads are almost im-
passable.
	"Friday 13th. The clouds having cleared
away this morning the weather assumes a more
smiling aspect, which, after three days inces-
sant rain, is very acceptable.
	"Saturday 14th. O. P. Rockwell and Ed-
win Cutler started on horseback for Nauvoo to
carry letters. Lyman Whitney and myself
took a short excursion into the country for the
purpose of trading for oxen—returned, hav-
ing partially effected an exchange."
	The weather having continued favorable
there was a fair prospect of our being able to
resume our journey in a day or two, but on the
17th it commenced clouding up, and before
midnight began a slow, drizzly rain, which
continued the remainder of the night, so we re-
mained there till the 19th. The quadrille band
went to Keosauqua on the same day by invita-
tion, to hold another concert. The weather
continued showery till the evening of the 18th,
when it cleared off pleasant. Horace wrote
the same day. "The corpse of Bro. Edwin
Little was brought into camp and interred to-
day. He was taken sick here a few days ago,
and was conveyed into the country in order to
have skillful treatment and to be shielded from
the inclemency of the weather; but notwith-
standing all was done for his relief that human
aid could afford, he died to-day while in the
wagon on the way to the camp. His disease
was the quick consumption. He appeared to
be reconciled to his death, and died in the full
faith of the Gospel."
	"Thursday 19th. This morning about
eleven o'clock struck our tents and proceeded
on our journey.	*	*	The weather
fine, though rather cool—the roads quite
smooth—traveled about twelve miles and
pitched our tents on a small creek which also
bears the name of Chequest, on the land of a
widow—name unknown. We are now travel-
ing through Davis County, which joins Van
Buran County. Brother Kimball's family
and ours are well—Sarah Ann gaining
rapidly."
	"Friday 20th. Our route being chiefly on
the prairie the roads were very bad; crossed
Fox River to-day, traveled fourteen miles and
encamped about four p.m. in the edge of a
small piece of timber—very poor muddy place,
being destitute of a name, consequently gave it
one, viz., Slough of Discontent. The prairie
through which we have been traveling to-day,
and shall for a day or two, is called the "New
Purchase," on the "Fox Divide."
	"Saturday 21st. Started at half past nine,
proceeded eleven miles and encamped on the
edge of the timber about four miles from the
River Chariton." That evening the band over-
took us, and before retiring they played a few
tunes before President Young's tent and
father's. Oh, what dismal days those were!
And the next day was Sunday—cloudy and
disagreeable—as we started in the morning
and crossed the bottom, which intervened be-
tween us and the Chariton River. We had
considerable difficulty in crossing that stream,
on account of the steepness of the descent on

[Column 3]
its banks. After crossing there was a very
bad hill to ascend, and they were obliged to
double teams in both places, besides the assist-
ance of a number of men to hold back, and
push up hill. This labor consumed the great-
er part of the day. We encamped on the top
of the hill in a small piece of timber. How
fresh in my mind are some of those tedions
days of rain, sleet and mud, and sometimes
hunger, for already were our rations poor and
pinched, it being the intention at that time to
cross over the Rocky Mountains the same year.
One important event transpired that dismal
morning, while we were crossing the bottom
between our camping ground and Chariton
River, which was indelibly written upon my
memory. We passed the wagon of Sister Zina
D. H. Young, which had halted upon
the east bank, where she had a beauti-
ful son born, and he was named Chariton. I
have never met that son nor heard his name
without its reminding me of Chariton River,
and the circumstances attending our sojourn
there. The following, written by Sister Zina,
is worthy of a place in our history:
	"I had been told in the temple that I should
acknowledge God even in a miracle in my de-
liverance in woman's hour of trouble, which
honr had now come. We had traveled one
morning abour five miles, when I called for a
halt in our march. There was but one person
with me—Mother Lyman, the aunt of George
A. Smith; and there, on the bank of the Chari-
ton, I was delivered of a fine son. On the
morning of the 23rd Mother Lyman gave me
a cup of coffee and a biscuit. What a luxury
for special remembrance! Occasionally the
wagon had to be stopped, that I might take
breath. Thus I journeyed on. But I did not
mind the hardship of my situation, for my life
had been preserved, and my babe seemed so
beautiful."

To be Continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A WORD FROM PROVO.

	Knowing that your interest, dear sisters, is
the same for all parts of God's vineyard, we
will tell you of our welfare.
	The young ladies are just as busy as bees.
They have had a fair this fall, which was suc-
cessful in every particular, and leaving a bal-
ance of $80 (eighty dollars) in the treasury,
which will be given for charitable purposes,
and to assist in the erection of our new Taber-
nacle. The spirit of reform and union that is
growing in the hearts of the Saints is manifest-
ing itself for good. Those who are Saints are
more determined than ever, and those who are
indifferent are getting deeper into the unsafe
mire of neutral ground.
	Our Conference, which has just past, was
about as poor as we ever had, owing to our
President, Jennie Tanner, being away, and our
beloved Sister Taylor not being here, but we
enjoyed ourselves, the few that were together,
and felt encouraged, as we always do after do-
ing our duty.
	Our Primary Associations are in a flourish-
ing condition. We have not held a fair in
Provo this year, but we held a concert, which
was the most successful one ever given in Provo,
clearing $40 (forty dollars) in our treasury, af-
ter paying seven for tithing, five to the Hospit-
al and ten to our Stake Tabernacle and paying
all expenses. The knowledge our little ones
have of music, order and prompt action is of
greater worth to us than all the money made.
	Our Primary Band is now under active
practice, and the boys are coming to the front
for once, proving that they only need a wise
and interesting plan to make them as active as
the girls.
	We read with interest the reports of other
societies and we are trying to keep pace with
them in the cultivation of the youth of Zion


Ever praying for the cause of truth, and for
those who are engaged in it, we will say good-
bye.		ZINA Y. WILLIAMS, President.
		ELENORA HAWS, Secretary.
Provo, Dec. 9th, 1883.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MRS. MARY A. LIVERMORE.

	In Melrose, one of the most beautiful of the
suburbs of Boston, Mrs. Livermore lives.
Within and without, a home beautiful with
works of art, with books, with gifts of love,
and souvenirs of foreign travel; with its views
of the clear lake to whose edge the lawn slopes
down; embowered in trees through which you
catch the outlines of purple hills, and more
beautiful in its family relations of love and
sweetness. Just opposite, across the street,
lives Mrs. Livermore's only married daughter,
whose husband is the principal of an impor-
tant Boston school. The pretty grandchilden
run in and out. Seperated by a heavy por-
tiere from her chamber is Mrs. Livermore's
study. On two sides books line the wall from
floor to ceiling. A revolving bookcase that
holds nearly three hundred volumes more
stands near the desk. The most perfect order
prevails. Nothing short of this could prevent
Mrs. Livermore from being utterly swamped
and submerged under the never-ending tide of
accumulation. A two days' absence will de-
posit seventy-five letters on her desk, a large
number of which must pass under her person-
al direction, if not claiming her personal an-
swer. Nothing less than her wonderful direc-
tive power would keep this accumulating ava-
lanche within bounds. Order is heaven's first
law. And it must be the first law of the life
that would enter here into the conditions of
that higher existence, for it is this which holds
the secret of Mary Livermore's youth, her un-
tiring activity, her conservation of energy. It
is that she is living this spiritual life amid
earthly conditions. It is the divine energy that
animates her, the force of a celestial gravita-
tion, the action of spiritual laws. With change
of word we find the secret of her force to be
told by Tennyson in his lines:
	"Her strength is as the strength of ten,
	Because her heart is pure."
	She is the most deeply religious, and yet
tenderly human, of any woman I ever knew.
Her nature is attuned to the keys of celestial
harmonies.
	LILIAN WHITING.
Bostoa Evening Traveler.


"Mrs. Stanton and Miss Anthony have ar-
rived safely in New, York."
	"Mrs. Grace Beebe, aged 101 years, died at
Plainville Mass., on Monday. Her father built
the old frigate Constitution; and her brother
draughted the vessel's lines."
	"It was a striking coincidence that the New
Northwest' the first journal to advocate equal
rights for all on the Northwest coast, was also
the first to publish to the world the news of the
great equal suffrage victory in Washington—a
result for which it has labored untiringly for
nearly thirteen years."


OBITUARY.

	DIED, in Goshen, Utah County, September 24th, 1828,
of typhoid fever, Ann, the beloved wife of Thomas
odds, and daughter of Peter and Jane Richardson. De-
ceased was born in Eggleston, County of Durham,
England, March 20th, 1829.
	She in an early day obeyed the law af Sarah, and was
faithful to her covenants, and died as she had lived, a
faithful Latter-day Saint.
	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT to the memory of our be-
loved sister, Ann Dodds.


Whereas, The Lord has called from our midst by the
hand of death onr beloved sister.
	Resolved, That we recognize in the death of our be-
loved sister the loss of an able and efficient teacher in
the Relief Society of Goshen Ward.
	Resolved, that we esteem her past faithful labors and
great devotion to duty as worthy the fellowship and
highest respect of us all.
	Resolved, That we deeply sympathize with the be.
reaved husband and family, in the loss of a kind wife
and affectionate mother.
	Resolved; That these resolutions be spread upon our
records, and that a copy of the same be presented to
the bereaved family; also the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for
publication.
	ELLISON GOURLEY,
	LOUISA TAYLOR,
	MARY JOHNSON,
		Committee.

	Resolutions of Respect to the memory of Mary
Thomas, who departed this life July 14th, 1883, in
Goshen, Utah County,
	Whereas, An alwise Providence has called from our
midst by the hand of death our beloved sister.
	Resolved, That we recognize, in the death of our sis-
ter, the loss of a worthy member and efficient teacher
of the Relief Society of Goshen Ward.
	Resolved, That we esteem her past faithful labors as
worthy the fellowship and highest respect of us all.
	Resolved, That we deeply sympathize with the be-
reaved family in the loss of a kind wife and affectionate
mother.
	Resolved, That these resolutions be spread upon our
records, and that a copy of the same be presented to
the bereaved family, also the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, for
publication.	ELLISON GOURLEY,
			LOUISA TAYLOR,
			MARY JOHNSON,
				Committee.


ELLEN B. FURGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON
Office and Residence on 2d South between 3d
and 4d East Streets.
Special Study has been given to SURGERY, DISEASES
OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS.
Can be Called by Telephone Day or Night

For Sale at this Office.
BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.
PRIMARY-SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2, 25c per copy.
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book, 40c.
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,	$1.00
'' Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
of the author, bound in morocco, 1.50

MRS.ELLIS R. SHIP, M.D.
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
Office and residence, South Temple Street, one
block and a half west of the Valley House.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building: also HOME MADE
Blankets, Brown Yarns, Cotton Batting,
Flannels, White Yarn, Wool Batting,
Shawls, Colored Yarns, Brooms,
Linseys, Cassimers, Washboards,
Jeans, Tweeds, Brushes, Etc., Etc.

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M.D.
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILLDING
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence

﻿ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1863.
Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
	 MENTS,
 CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBROIDERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes
	112,114,116,118 East Temple Street.

HENRY DINWOODEY.
FURNITURE,
WALL PAPER,
CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUINS
AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY. 

FAuerbach & Bro.
A Fall and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMPLE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 12.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANURAY 1, 1884.	NO. 15.


[Column 1]

MEDITATIONS OF THE NEW YEAR.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

The clock strikes twelve! another year is gone!
Yes, passed and gone into eternity
As stars sink into space, as morning
The mind runs back into the moonlit past
As natural as it draws the light of life—
Runs down the vista of recorded time
Our steps meandering have traveled o'er;
The voices and the music float again
Over the retrospective ear of love;
Filial, parental, and fraternal love.
Our ear is quicken'd, and those glorious chimes,
That erst rang in the new auspicious morn,
Burst vividly from out this page of memory,
In tongues inspiriting with life and joy.

We stand upon a gentle eminence;
Our eye—the eye of mind feels strained	zing—
Gazing back into the far off past.
We try to crowd the past into a thought,
A retrospective thought, and live it o'er
Again—but the brain grows dizzy, refusing
To embody it—but memory rises up,
And by its mystic aid I note the
Sunny spots—the sunlight still upon them;
And the flowers of memory still cast
Their perfume, e'en to where I stand to-day,
With all the mystical associations
That flowers—like music—ever bring.

Yonder—a long way off, I see as 'twere
A speck—of almost my infantine days,
Guarded and tended by the eyes of love,
The voice of wisdom, and the hand of care.
And yonder, far away, I see the dark
And gloomy spots I traveled o'er in days
Long past—e'en in my childhood's hour—long ago
How they broke my heart, yea, shook my brain,
And left me like a stranded bark upon
Life's dark and turbid waters, and I see,
E'en where I stand, the spot where it was staid.
I seem to hear a voice that said, "Be still—
No more contend to mix thy waters with
The sweet and sparkling river of her life."
And there its waves were stay'd, and still they stay;
And on I pressed, and worked my heart and brain
To make some flowers spring beneath my feet.
I can see the little altars—childlike—
That I raised—where'er I went I had a shrine;
The earth my hassock; in the sky was God,
The Temple of my worship and my love!
Praying for light, for happiness and peace,
Struggling upward to my soul's desire,
Thro' the chaotic mass of childish ignorance;
Thus I retrace my youthful course of life,
On, and on, till maturity was gained,
And peace and satisfaction were attained.

Again I look, and lo! a mighty change
Evolves—that changes all my course of life!
I see the pathway broken up and rough,
And pitfalls all around that fright my soul,
And gazing still, a mighty sea I cross,
With all its storms and tempests overhead;
And then a range of mountains we must cross,
But flowers, and birds, and nature's beauties
Spring around the path interminable.
Thus we travel on for days and weeks, yea, months,
With many "ills that flesh is heir to,"
And bitter sorrow, language never tells
Enough, that death closes up that scene for aye.
Like one of old I cried, "Lord, save; I perish."
My heart and brain in mercy hold; I'M THINE,
My Father, for time and all eternity—
I dedicate myself, my all, to Thee!
Accept, release, and send me peace, thy peace
The world can never give or take away.
It came, softly, calmly, certainly it came,
Came distilling like the morning dew—
The sun effulgent rose—and I was saved! 

[Column 2]

Sweet peace came back, and threw her downy mantle
O'er me, never more again to leave me quite.
Clouds may flit above my head, around my path,
But never can I suffer as in days
Now past among the things that were for aye;
I still am human—still may err unwisely,
Yes, still in full may lack the attributes
That make indeed a Saint of God complete;
But still the sweet assurance has been given
That struggling on the vict'ry I shall win,
If calmly, bravely—struggling to the end.

Life is a mystery! and thick the veil
That hides the spiritual from the actual,
A cranny now and then emits a glimpse
Of glories, which e'en imagination
Fails to grasp and rivet on the human brain.
'Tis like a twinkling vision of the eye,
Evanescent—startling—thrilling—and is gone.


[Column 1]

A DAUGHTER OF THE PATRIOTS.

Dear Editor.
	In reading the 15th of November number of
the EXPONENT I must say with you, that the
time has come when to remain silent would be
an "ignominious reproach," let us therefore
bring Truth into the field to grapple with
Falsehood, "and throw down the gauntlet in
defense of our own honor," in the defense of 
our homes, our chastity, and our liberty; in the
defense of our children's rights, born under the
bright flag of liberty, the ensigin of freedom to
all nations, as the haven of rest for the op-
pressed of all countries. What was it that in-
stigated the Fathers of our Country to revolt
against the rule of England? Was it to ag-
grandize themselves, to gain conquests, to gain
territory, to place crowns upon their heads?
No, it was to throw off the yoke of bondage, to 
burst the fetters of slavery, and to stand on
God's earth free men; free to think, free to act,
(as long as they did not infringe on the rights
of others) with their souls untrammeled, their
consciences free to worship God in their own
way, to establish laws for their own best inter-
est, independent of the whole world. For this
they bled, for this they died. This was the
spirit and intent of the men who framed the
Constitution of America. Then shall men, be-
ing influenced by the clamor of those eager for
spoil, drag out the foundations and undermine
the structure of liberty, and destroy what has
cost so much of life and treasure to establish?
Then what means the stringent measures
which have been enforced by the commission,
or by what right has a commission been ap-
pointed? What have we done that we should
be treated as enemies? What law have we
broken? Are we not a law-abiding people?
Have we not (being qualified) asked to be ad-
mitted into the great family of States, present-
ing a Republican form of government? Have
we not sufficient population? Are we not an in
dustrious people, and an honest people? Have
we not built up a desert and made it "to blos-
som as the rose," built towns, cities, railroads,
schoolhouses; and do we not encourage educa-
tion, advancement, enterprise and honesty?
And have we not facilities for a self-sustain-
ing community? Yes; and more, we are a
God-fearing people. Then what is the matter?
Oh, you believe in plural marriage, and claim
you have the right, but we have decreed its
downfall, and you must and shall submit, or
we will go behind the law and institute some-
thing similar to the old law of the Inquisition.
President Arthur says, "It is useless to attack

[Column 2]

it with anything but the strongest weapons."
Well may we say that Justice and Equity has
fled from the land.
	It is the duty of the President of this grand
republic to deal impartially with the people
nnder his supervision. I am led to draw a dif-
ferent conclusion from the tenor of his mes-
sage, as in the case of Alaska he exhibits a
fatherly care for their rights, and recommends
measures for their protection, but in the rec- 
ommendation for Utah he manifests the oppo-
site spirit, almost a tyrant, seeking to deprive
a whole community of their natural born
rights, making them slaves to opinions formed
without knowledge. The President has no
right or authority to assume absolute control
of the affairs of Congress without limitation;
he has no right to interfere with the personal
rights of the people without judicial trial.
Where can he point out a law in the Constitu-
tion giving him the right? Even a President
is limited in his powers when he attempts to
pervert the law; what part of the Constitution
of the United States is it that affirms the in-
capacity of a majority in any given locality of
having the right to control its own affairs?
The Constitution gives the people absolute pow-
er over their own domestic arrangements, and
who has the right to take it away? Who gave
them the right to send our avowed enemies to
rule over us without our consent? And must
we submit? Is there not a God in heaven
whose arm is strong enough in the defense of
the oppressed? When the Saints were driven
from their homes in the States into
a howling wilderness in the winter, 
who in all this great nation held forth
a helping hand to protect them? Even
the widow, the fatherless, the aged and infirm?
None. What did the nation say, "Your cause
is just but we can do nothing for you," but we
will take all your able bodied men to fight our
battles; you must help yourselves, which we
did, the Lord helping us; He blessed His peo-
ple and led them to this land which then be-
longed to Mexico. What did the people do,
did they raise the flag of Mexico and revolt
against the government? No, they did not.
They proudly unfurled the stars and stripes,
and planted the ensign of freedom in this
mountain retreat, and on their bended knees
thanked God for this haven of rest; vowed to
defend it with their lives, their all. Then to
secure good order in their new country they
proceeded to create a government which was 
Republican in all its parts, and being no law in
the United States with regard to marriage (only
what is called in England, the common law)
which was, that every State or Territory should
regulate its own marriage laws, therefore they
felt at liberty to marry according to the law
and will of the Lord, which they had a right
to do, and claim that the celestial law is a ten-
et of our religion, and a matter of conscience 
between us and our God, and that no nation,
no Congress, no legislature, no man has the
right to curtail us in this matter, as it is ex-
pressly forbidden in the Constitution to make
expose facto laws; we believe it right to sustain
the laws of the land, but we do not believe
that men have the right to bind men's souls.
	In reading the News I came across some
clippings from Henry Ward Beecher,in which
he says, "Its ignoble origin must not lead us to
despise it; it is one of the great forces of mod-
ern society." What does he mean? Does he
mean that because Joseph Smith was of hum-


[Column1]
ble birth, that the origin of Mormonism is ig-
noble? Where have our great statesmen, our
great inventors, our reformers and our great
nation come from, was it not from men of hum-
ble birth and origin? Men who were not
afraid to work with their hands, their hearts,
and their brains? Has not our nation made
itself great by the bone and sinew of the work-
ing class? Are not the working class God's no-
blemen? Mr. Beecher shows his lack of
knowledge when he says, "the emigrants that
come here are all ignorant, and that the wom-
en here don't want a multitude of wives around
them." Who told him the sentiments and
wants of the ladies of Utah? At least the
women here have the good sense to know what
their rights are, and intend to use every legal
means in their power, with wisdom, to maintain
them, and one thing they have learned is this,
to mind their own business.
	I also read with disgust the clippings from
Mrs. Newman's address. How dare she make
the assertion, "that every house in Utah is a﻿
house of prostitution,  that there is no love,
care, or tenderness; that our children are love-
less, deformed and a blank," or "that we have
no homes, only kennels for reproduction?" How
dare she say that we are in bondage soul and
body? We defy the world to produce a more
free, happy, or chaste people. A people that
are bound together by the bonds of true affec-
tion and love. We defy them to produce a
more healthy, upright, intelligent, or perfectly
formed lot of ohildren, no blanks. We teach
them ourselves, by the help of God our Hea-
venly Father, the principles of life, of health,
of purity; we teach them to avoid the evils of
the world, and to keep themselves from con
tamination with the evil practices of the world-
We need no help from our enemies. We po-
litely invite the missionary society to use the
money collected for children nearer home, as
we have plenty and don't need it. We spurn
all such help. We depend on God our Hea-
venly Father in the noble work of raising our
children in the fear and admonition of the
Lord. We have confidence in our husbands;
we know them to be men of God, and that
they hold the holy Preisthood of God, and we
do not cover broken hearts under sealskin
sacques, or take opium or liquor to keep us
from going mad. We know that the Lord has
commanded His people to obey the law of ce-
lestial marriage; and we obey it because we
love it, not because we are forced to. It has
been given to raise up a righteous seed unto
the Lord. We know that our husbands are
honest in their obedience to this law, and that
they provide for their families as honorable
men. The world do not comprehend our mo-
tives, but we know they are pure, and the
Lord will be our judge. It can be proved by
Holy Writ that God approved this practice in
olden times, and shall we raise our puny arm
against God. The Lord delights in the chasti-
ty of women, and so do His servants. Chasti-
ty is the germ of true nobility, and imparts a
dignity to the character of every man and
woman who possesses it. It is a precious gem,
and there is no people on the earth who appre-
ciate it more than the people of Utah. We
have a holy horror of the crimes of adultery
and licentiousness, and we have the greatest
ambition to keep ourselves pure, both in body
and mind, and also honest in thought,
word, deed, and to keep free from the evils of
the world. We feel it our duty to defend
ourselves, our religion, and our rights, and let
the world know that our standpoint is truth,
honor, purity, chastity and integrity. We be-
lieve in God, and that He will hold us ac-
countable. In Him we trust. Let us as
Saints live so near unto God that we may have
His approbation from day to day, and His
Spirit to guide us in our every day life.
	I hail with delight the arrival of the EXPO-

			[Column 2]
NENT, and thank God that we have such able
women to defend our rights as those that con-
tribute to its columns.
	Praying for the advancement of the King-
dom of God, I remain your sister in the Gos-
pel of Christ,			SARAH A. FULLMER.
	Orangeville, Emery Co.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HAVE WE CHARITY?
  I cannot blame the world for the view they
take of the order of celestial marriage.  With
the spirit of the world how dreadful would be its
consequences.  St. Paul says the carnal mind is
not subject to the will of God, neither indeed
can be.  Accordingly envy, hatred, and malice
must be the result.  With this spirit they may
well fear to marry even one wife.  Being of dif-
ferent temperaments and differently educated
there is danger of giving offence at any time
besides those who live for pleasure would be
taxed with too many burdens to enjoy a life of
ease and comfort.  Looking at this side of the
question how foolish to marry at all.  I think
they have forgotten, or they do not wish to
know what our Savior says upon the subject,
that is, "The man is not without the woman,
or the woman without the man, in the Lord."
We are not perfect, nor can we attain to perfec-
tion without each other.  The spirit of the Gos-
pel being opposite to the spirit of the world.
This spirit brings faith, hope and charity, com-
bined with purity of purpose and sincerity of
heart.  With these virtues the burdens of a
family would be a pleasure, because prompted
by the right motive.  The Lord judges by the
motives and intents of the heart, which are all
known to Him, because He knows what spirit
we are in possession of.  All spirits are known
to Him.  I believe that every one of the evil
spirits had access to our Savior at the time He
fasted forty days and forty nights.  Then He ob-
tained power over them all, because He did not
yield to their promptings.  He did not command
those stones to become bread, or cast Himself
from the pinnacle of the Temple.  He knew
those evil spirits from that time henceforth; and
He knows when we cherish them in our bosoms.
We are told that God made us in His own im-
age; do we not then possess a germ of the Deity
within our hearts; consequently little children
are fit for the Kingdom of God, as the Savior
said they were; accordingly they deserve to have
righteous parents, those who fear to offend an
all wise Father, yea, even the Creator of all
things, for by Him they are and were created,
and a commandment given to progress as He
had designed they should.  Why then do they
who take the opposite course expect the blessing
of God our Father to attend their efforts.  Do
they deserve it?  Do they deserve to be honored
and beloved in their declining years by a God-
fearing posterity; for such children would fear
to offend their earthly parents.  I believe they
honor and respect us even as we honor and love
the laws of God.  They may be tempted and
led from the straight and narrow path for a sea-
son, but by the earnest prayers of their parents
they will see their folly and return at the some fu-
ture time.  If we learn by contrast they will do
the same.  But you ask, is it wisdom to raise a
posterity when you cannot properly educate and
clothe them?  This is well thought of.  But this
is not all they need.  A good moral and relig-
ious training will do more for them even though
they are poor, because with this they will be
lovers of intelligence and, with it, will see the
propriety of developing their abilities, and will
make a proper use of their talents and time.
How many can you find who labored with their
own hands for their support and saved money
to attend school, where they have received prac-
tical education which made them useful mem-
bers of society.  Is not Benjamin Franklin one
of this class?  He progressed until he received a
diploma as Master of Arts.  He had a common
education, it is true, yet he considered him e f a
self-mace man as to science,the higher advance-
ment, How many people have I known who
have gone with a few others to some remote
valley and settled there; rearing good families
who hardly had time to devote three months in
the year to book learning, yet in learning from
observation they could not be surpassed.  But
those people were a righteous people, who feared
God and observed His laws; those who remem-
bered the words of the Savior; "He who hear-
eth these sayings of mine and doeth them, I
will liken him to the man who built his house
upon a rock, etc.  And the rains descended and
the floods cams and the winds blew and beat
npon that house, and it fell not, bscanse it was
founded upon a rock. While those who take
the opposite course were compared to the man
who built his house upon the sand. I have
learned by observation that there are people who
come to these valleys full of faith, and seem to
be full ef intelligence, as to worldly objects; they
are active and energetic, etc but as soon as
they begin to prosper in temporal things they
have no time to pray oreven to ask a blessing
upon their food. Allis business, business, nn-
til they can accomplish their purpose. By this
time they have lost the spirit of thanking the
Lord for blessings, but take credit of their own
abilities, and proceed in their own strength.
Finally conclude to spend their time in looking
at the faults of others, not thinking of their
own (for we all have some weak point in enr na-
tures which if not guarded will cause us to
Stumble, or become a stumbling block to some
one else). I would ask, what kind of families
would such people raise? For we are told that
he who cannot govern self is not fit to govern
others. There is a large percentage of that class
however. How many I cannot tell.
 Our Savior compared the Kingdom of heaven
to ten virgins, five were wise and five were fool-
ish. The foolish said unto the wise give ua of
your oil for onr lamps have gone out. Accord-
ingly they went to sleep In a cold state, and
awoke in the same condition. For it seems that
both the wise and foolish slept. But those who
had the oil were easily lighted. So also with
the Saints, those who live according to the rules
our Savior has given to all the human family
will possess a portion of Hla Spirit even in pro-
portion to the rules they live by. This light and.,
intelligence will fill their minds with the true
light which St. John speaks of. He saya.lt light-
eth every one who cometh into the world.
But this Is not all: for it teaches us to be self-sec-
rifloing people. “If a man compel thee to go a
mile, go twain; If he smite thee on the cheek
turn the other also. Bless them who persecute
you; bless and curse not.” Tula is called the
higher law. None but noble,mind can condes-
cend to do this. And why do they? Beoauee
they know that those who persecute are foolish
virgins, they have not the oil the Savior spoko
of. Yet there will be a people who must obey
the higher Jaw to prepare the way for the second,
coming of our Savior to the earth.
 Such a people can live In that holy order
known as plural marriage. They can love their
neighbors as themselves, and deal out even-
handed justice to all. They may fiot live as
perfectly as they ought to-day-—but It will be
done in peifeotion sometime.
 Not only be, but we will have a kingdom of
peace, where none shall molest or make us
afraid. And the time spoken of by the prophets,
raying that “he who will not take up his sword
against his neighbor must needs flee to Zion for
safely.” This will be the result of the sacrifices
we are making to-day. 'Nor do wo make these
sacrifices in vain. This will produce a pure state
of society. A pure love, which is not the cold,
sordid love of worldly gain. No, we will reach
a higher mood, a noblerestimate of man. Be
earnest in the search for good, anu speak of all.
the best we can. This Is the faith of
M. E. Kimball."


Minnesota sends to Congress this year the
first Scandinavian ever elected to the national
legislature. His name is Kanute Neilson, and
he represents a race of men who are fast gain-
ing prominence in the politics of the North-
west.
	An illiterate man who was violently de-
nouncing the presumption of women in asking
for the ballot, was asked by an intelligent lady
where he derived the right to settle the matter.
"What right,"said she, "has any man in just-
ice to say we ladies shall or shall not vote?
You have the power, but whence did it come?
Is it an inherent right of man, or is it an usur-
pation and an assumption of a privilege that
really belongs to all? What right have you to
say to me that I shall not exercise a privilege
that you enjoy, especially when I have a large,
property and you have none? You have the
power to vote a tax upon my property, and I
have no power to defend myself. Is it right?
Is it just?" The logic of the lady set us think-
ing.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


THE YEAR THAT'S GONE.

It has passed away to the other side
Of life's swift river's rolling tide,
With its cargo of smiles and bitter tears,
Of joyous hopes and trembling fears.

It has passed away and the freight has placed
Where the names of its owners are clearly traced,
Shall we blush to own it, oh, pause and think,
It awaits our coming; time's ships ne'er sink.

It has passed away, and, brothers dear,
What have ye sent with the bygone year?
Were deeds of honor and mercy thine,
Does charity's mantle thy stores entwine?

It has passed away, and, sisters mine,
What have we sent on the wings of time,
What have we stored in the harbor wide
On the other side of time's swift tide?

It has passed away, did it bear false pride
And vanity on to the other side,
With selfish deeds and slander vile
That turns to tears the angel's smile?

It has passed away, and we welcome now
The new born year with song and vow,
Of faith received and friendship strong—
May they remain while time flies on.

It has passed away, oh! may we strive
Our treasures to send that they may arrive
On eternity's shore and await us there
To encircle our brows with laurels fair.

	HOPE.


TO MARY J. TANNER

Lay not aside your harp, dear friend,
Its musical air waves afar,
Trem'lous with its low, sweet sound,
And other sad hearts stir
To nobler purpose, truer love.
If there's no bay for you now,
Yet angels, in their home above,
Weave a garland for your brow.

The poet merged in the woman, yes
A true poet still, I ween,
While a dear woman's tenderness
In the poetry sweet is seen.
And the light that was just ahead
Is reflected bright afar,
Lighting a path for others to tread,
Aye, the light of a guiding star.

A morning star for youth's glad spring,
To pilot a voyage of life;
A beacon light to the wayfaring,
Seen above sin and strife.
Your heart is heavy with life's great care,
Cherished hopes shattered and lost;
But should one crush a diamond rare,
He would treasure the diamond dust.

Those fragments of hope may brightly shine,
Like atoms of diamond dust,
When you have reached the hand divine,
And given to others a trust.
Then lay not aside your harp, dear friend,
Tho' you travel down life's hill,
'Twill cheer you on to your journey's end,
And vibrate for others still.
EMILY SCOTT.


"NOTHING LOST."
	As we look around us in the laboratory of
nature, we find that motion is one of the gov-
erning laws of the Universe; we see it in the
shaking of an aspen leaf, the trembling of a
dewdrop, or the swelling of an ocean. Motion
involves change, and this change is made man-
ifest in the most subtle movements.  The silent
dropping of water wears away the hardest
rock; the water itself is converted into vapor
which rises to form the clouds; these condense,
and in the form of rain percolate the soil
filter through the everlasting hills, return to
the original condition, pure, cold water, com-
pletes the cycle, yet nothing has been lost.
	Again we see this change in the erosion of
the grand old mountains by the wind, the rain
and the frost.  Here chiseling the rock into
grotesque forms of architecture, reminding one
of the old castles in the days of chivalry, with
parapet and gable, and moss-grown tower—
yonder hurling the sand with such force
against the stony masses that the sharp angles
of the particles cut like myriads of diamond
points, carving their way through the bulwark
of rock, leaving the dolomite standing like
giant sentinels guarding the pass to the "En-
chanted Valley"—the form is changed, but no-
thing is lost.
	Then we see the furrowing of the plains by
the rivers as they sweep irresistibly onward to
the ocean, carrying in their embrace the mate-
rial for new continents, and the ocean ceaseless-
ly lashing its rock-bound coast gradually en-
croaches upon the land, moulding its beach in-
to varied forms of beauty.  The mighty reefs
that have taken the little coral insects thou-
sands of years to build, the roaring cataract,
the deep, dark caverns with their colossal col-
umns of solid masonry, all containing the ac-
cumulated strength of ages, yet all are subject
to change.
	If we enter the domain of the vegetable
kingdom, we find organization and disorgani-
ation constantly taking place.  The building
up of inorganic matter into organic com-
pounds, which after aggregating and arriving
at maturity, bear seed, and by the process of
decay return to the elements from which they
were elaborated.  The solid particles sink to
the earth that cradled them, while the volatile
matters escape into the great atmospheric res
ervoir from which they were drawn—the cycle
is complete—nothing is lost.
	In the life of man, says Draper, there is no
going back;  the morose old veteran cannot re-
turn to the genial confidence of early man-
hood, the youth cannot return to the idle and
useless occupations of boyhood, even the boy is
parted by a long step from the innocent credu-
lity of the nursery.  The course of man is
progressive, yet he should not accept the de-
ception that all that he does is determined by
his own volition, for at the close of our days
we learn how great is the illusion, and that we
have been swimming and struggling in a
stream which in spite of all our voluntary mo-
tions has silently and resistlessly borne us to a 
predetermined shore—a shore we all must 
reach; but this is not the end—all is not lost.
	Man may well stand appalled when he sheds
the last bitter tear over some departed loved
one, if he contemplate only upon the havoc
relentless nature will so soon make upon the 
hallowed form before him; that perhaps in
years to come some sturdy oak will sink its
rootlets into the earth and take up all that re-
mains of the one he cherished.  This is true
transmigration of matter, but not of soul. The
casket from which the glittering gem is gone
is consigned to the cold embrace of earth, and
although the casket itself yields to the irrevo-
cable decree of decay and dissolution, its or-
ganic compounds resolving themselves into the
inorganic constituents from which they were
eleborated, all moulding into apparent nothing-
ness—yet nothing is lost.
	To the materialist who looks upon man as a
creature who lives and moves and has his being
upon this planet, and at last wraps his drapery
around him and lies down, not to "pleasant
dreams," but to dream no more, how insignifi-
cant the end must appear, and what a mockery
is life.  Then would the Cyreniac's theory of
happiness be the one to accept, that of the idea
of pleasure being the chief aim in life, but
anon the end cometh, which to the materialist
is annihilation.  Ah! but 'tis not so, the soul,
the intangible is preserved, no corrupting influ-
ence it to affect, no corrosive agent to destroy,
freed from its mortal clay, it wings its way to
its God, there to await and obey His man-
dates.
	Man can discover the eternal in the van-
ishing of present events, and through the
shadows of time.  Contend as he may that all
is lost when this life ceases, but when the "last
bitter hour comes," his physical powers weak-
ened and exhausted can no longer control the
strong spirit which yearns for its better home.
It was this that caused one of the greatest athe-
lists while upon his death bed to exclaim, "Oh
God! if there be a God, accept my sould if I
have a soul!"
	When we contemplate upon the influence of
man, we find that it does not perish with the
individual, but may be felt through all coming
time.  The divine influence of Christ has come
down through the centuries, and has been a
balm to thousands of human hearts; the truths
that were discovered by the ancients exert
their influence upon the world to-day, they
are just as potent now as they were then; the
teachings imparted at a mother's knee have guid-
ed men to the highest pinnacle of honor and re-
nown; words of purity and love emanating from
honest hearts have been the guiding star to
thousands who without them would have been
wrecked on the quicksands of life; a little
psalm inspired ages ago has come singing down
through the centuries, and has been a beacon
light to myriads of storm-tossed mariners.
	The good that men do is never lost, but ra-
diates from them and imbues with its benign
influence all that comes within its sphere, just
as heat radiates from the solar centre and gives
warmth to the surrounding media.  The good
and the evil that men do is not "interred with
their bones," and the evil also had its sphere of
dissemination, contaminating all who partake
of its influence. Would that the grave could
as effectually cover up the crimes of men as it
does their wasted tabernacles; but 'tis not so,
the wrong remains as a witness to condemn
the oracle that sent it forth.  "It needs be that
evil comes, but woe unto them by whom it
comes." Woe unto those who attempt to mar
the fair face of truth, crush the innocent, and
with the dark drawn dagger of the mind
"drink deep the crimson current of the heart,"
dark is the record they leave behind them,
dark will be the hour of reckoning.
	Truth is the principle that men should most
seek after, for it is eternal, and he who finds it
and shows it to the world has accomplished a
work that can never be lost.
	"Go seek for the truth, 'tis the brightest prize
	To which mortals or Gods can aspire;
	Go search in the depths where it glittering lies,
	Or ascend in pursuit to the loftiest skies,
	'Tis an aim for the noblest desire."

	Nations rise and fall, empires are only sand-
hilss in the hour glass of time, they crumble
spontaneously away by the process of their own
growth," but their influence is not lost, that
which is good remains through all coming time,
and aids in guiding the destinies of nations
that are to follow.
	Man should come to the conclusion that his
chief concern is with himself, that his influ-
ence in this world is not lost, but lives after
him to exalt or to condemn. "Thou wast alone
at the time of thy birth; thou wilt be alone at 
the moment of death; alone thou must answer
at the bar of the Eternal Judge."
							"ISIS."


There are few signs in the soul's state more
alarming than that of religious indifference;
that is, the spirit of thinking all religions
equally true, the real meaning of which is,
that all religions are equally false.—F. W.
Robertson.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	EDITOR.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a.m. to 
5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, JANUARY 1, 1884.


THE NEW YEAR, 1881.

	A Happy New Year to all our friends and pat-
rons, and may it be a prosperous one indeed.
Utah has good prospects if things can take their
legitimate course. The great fuss being made
all over the world and through the pulpit and
press will do no real harm, if no more positive
adverse legislation is pushed—but men, anxious
to obtain power and influence, are busy with
divers schemes and plots to undermine and des-
troy that which more than thirty years of hard
and constant toll has built up. Should these
politicians and demagogues succeed in their
wicked machinations to bring down persecution
upon the "Mormons" again, it would only mill-
tate against them, for disgrace and punishment
ever follows with relentless hand those who
seek to build themselves upon the ruin of others.
It is no less true of peoples than individuals.
Where are those who bitterly persecuted the
Saints in Missouri and Illinois? Have they rid-
den to popularity on this "Mormon" hobby
they are so fond of parading before the public?
No, emphatically no. They have gradually sunk
into insignificance, or have died ignominious
deaths, so sure does retribution follow those who
seek to exalt themselves by crying others down.
Utah deserves prosperity, the labors of her peo-
ple have been worthy of such a result, worthy
of statehood, but it remains with Congress to
prove how far they will comply with the inter-
ceedings of the majority, and secnre to the citi-
zens of this growing Territory the rights and 
privileges accorded under the flag of American
freedom.
	However, there is great hope that the new 
year may bring peace and plenty, and that Utah
may continue to be in the future still prosper-
ous, her homes still happy, her people following
out the great and grand principles that have
been advocated and taught by wise men and
patriots in all ages.
	And hoping and believing all will work to-
gether for good to those who serve God and work
righteousness, we again most heartily wish all a
happy new year.


[Column 1]

EDITORIAL NOTES

	THE holiday number of the Contributor con-
tains some very interesting articles. Elder Geo.
Reynolds' papers, upon the Book of Mormon,
are calculated to educate our young people in
the Book of Mormon literature. This is a result
ardently to be desired, for heretofore this won-
derful book has been more or less neglected.
Bro. Reynolds' articles are so smoothly and
pleasantly written that the subjects treated up-
on will awaken a new interest for the young.
	"Angela," the prize story, by Augusta Joyce

[Column 2]

Crocheron, is thrillingly rich in pathos and ten-
derness. The language is choice and poetical,
and the incidents of the story prettily woven to-
gether with the golden thread of love on the
swift-flying shuttle of thought in the hands of
a tasteful and artistic weaver of the various col-
orings that blend harmoniously in the mantle
that falls gracefully over the actual and gives
it the perfection of an ideal picture.
	The second best story, by Homespun, is given
in the young author's happy style, and is really
worthy the place it occupies. Homespun is
traveling rapidly up the hill of literary merit
and getting honors by the wayside.
	The poem, "A Christmas Idyl," is the gem of
the magazine; it embodies two pictures, artistic-
ally drawn in outline and beautifully elaborated,
as well as delicately embellished. In fact the
sublime theme the author has chosen seems
most ably handled by inspirational genius. No
loftier subject could have been selected, and
every word seems to fit in its proper place as
harmoniously as a strain of heavenly music.
	One cannot read the Idyl without feeling a
sort of solemnity and grandeur in his own soul.
Such poetry is exalting in its nature, and we
congratulate the young Bishop on his success,
and trust he may yet reach the realization of
his most ardent aspirations as a poet and an
author, in elaborating the wonderful themes
with which Mormonism so richly abounds.
	MISS KATE FIELD will deliver her popular
and interesting lecture, entiltled "An Evening
With Dickens," in the Social Hall, in this city,
on Monday evening, January 7th, for the bene-
fit of the Deseret Hospital. We had the pleas-
ure of hearing the lady on this subject when
she first came to Salt Lake, and know whereof
we speak. All the admirers of this celebrated
man's writings should hear Miss Field; who was
a personal friend of his, and makes the audience
feel as though they could almost see Dickens
himself. The lecture is for a benovelent pur-
pose and should be well attended on that ac-
count, as this is the season to bless and succor
the poor and unfortunate, and at the beginning
of a new year it is fitting to be kindly and gen-
erous. We hope to see the hall crowded.
	Miss Field is not only an author, a lecturer
and a humorist, but has good dramatic ability.
She brought out her play in London some years
ago, which was very highly spoken of by the
English paper; it was styled "Extremes Meet."
Her books are very interesting, "Ten Days in
Spain," "Hap Hazard" or "Travels in America
and Europe," "Pen Photographs of Charles
Dickens "and Charles A. Fecheter, or "Life of an
Actor," his Hamlet in Europe and America,
etc., are some of her works.
	Miss Field is also a practical business woman
and noted for her talent in this direction, which
is rather unusual for an author. She was one of
the first to help introduce the Telephone into
England, did the literary part of the work, and
is one of the original stock holders in the firm.
	JAMES DWYER ESQ has for sale the North
American Review containing, an article by
Prest. John Taylor, followed by one from.
Gov. Murray, each representing his views on the
situation of Utah at the present time, etc. The
articles are placed in contrast as they are pub-
lished, and it would seem that every lover of
patriotism, of truth and justice, should be able
to judge which is true and which is hollow as
well as false. Get the magazine and read both
opinions.


[Column 1]
A WOMAN'S OPINION.

	If the o'er prudish portion of eastern society,
who claim to be in such awful jeopardy lest they
should be polluted by a few "Mormons" away

[Column 2]
out here in Utah, who persist in believing and
practicing the patriarchal order of marriage, and
whose corrupt tastes and imaginations cause
them to think evil where there is no evil, could
realize that they also live in glass houses, and
that we are daily posted concerning the rotten
condition of their own social circles, in which
move the very ones that cry the loudest against
us, and desire so much to "solve the polygamy
problem," would but stop and look matters and
things square in the face, and let reason rule,
they might very quickly solve it.
	There are greater problems than the plural
wife system, of which they would do well to
seek a solution. First, practice the "Mormon"
creed, "Mind your own business," then study
how you may best cleanse the inside of the plat-
ter, then there is no danger but the outside will
be clean also. Gather up the low, ignorant
masses of wretched humanity that have been
so long allowed to exist and increase in their
midst. Yes, in the very heart of our boasted
and enlightened nation, which professes so
much, but has done so little in the way of true
benevolence, or even common mercy, we real-
ly think it would be more Christianlike to com-
mence there instead of working up a wicked
crusade against a handful of inoffensive people,
who mind nobody's business but their own; and
even the conversion of heathens afar off might
be left till a few of those in their own midst
were saved. As Uncle Sam has great wealth at
his command, would it not be commendable in
him to render more assistance toward this good
work, instead of leaving it all for these "Mor-
mons" to do? taking their lives in their hands
and going without purse or scrip, as the Savior
commanded, some having already been killed
by those ignorant people, for proclaim
ing the truth to them. And the
same will apply to other nations where
our Elders have been traveling to pro-
claim free salvation to the Gentiles, and to gath-
er out the poor and the maimed, and the halt
aud the blind, as Jesus said they should do, that
His table may be filled. We have been given
to understand what to expect from the rich,
who made all manner of excuses, as they could
not spare the time. "Therefore," said Jesus,
"none of those men that were bidden shall taste
of my supper. If any man come to me, and
hate not his father and his mother, and wife and
children, and brethren and sisters, yea, and his
own life, also, he cannot be my disciple." Thou-
sands of that class will seek admission when it is
too late. There will also be found those who have
not on the wedding garment, but they will
be cast out into outer darkness, where they will
be weeping and wailing and gnashing of teeth.
The common cry about the ignorant scum who
gather up to these mountains from the different
nations, shows that they understand not the
Scriptures, nor do they desire to, for they have
hardened their hearts against them, just as Jes-
us predicted, and they do not see the marvelous
work that is being accomplished by the Al-
mighty, right in the very midst of them. This
is the greatest and the grandest mission that
has ever been given to a people, and like every
good work of this kind, it must be performed by
the few that are ready and willing to labor un-
der the the counsel and direction of inspired
men, who will not vary from the principles and
the rules marked ont by our Savior, but are
ready to take their lives in their hands to
go and proclaim His Gospel to a wick-
ed and untoward generation—waiting till
He thinks fit to reward them. "Many
are called but few are chosen;" which words will
apply to this people as well as to any other.
Those of the more favored are expected to teach
the poor and the ignorant classes, who have
lacked the opportunities, how they may al-


so become free, self-supporting and independent
citizens, instead of keeping them down as they
have been in their own countries, where they
could not own an inch of ground, and knew no-
thing, only to earn their daily pittance, and even
then they had scarcely enough to keep soul and
body together, and they might have lived and
died in that condition had they not heard the
Latter-day Gospel, which has power to save
all who will come under its banner; and we know
that if they keep the commandments of God
they will be enabled, in time, to arrive at the
true standard of excellence, and will, in their
turn, become also saviors upon Mount Zion.
	Thousands, who have  gathered to these val-
leys, will to day testify that they are realizing
these blessings.  The Lord has said that "the
wisdom of the wise shall perish." And we are
witnessing proofs of it daily, even in the Execu-
tive of this nation, who accepts the false testi-
monies and exaggerated tales, gotten up by
our enemies for nothing but a political pur-
pose, which is as plain to our understanding as
A B C. Our delectable Governor says, "A man
must be on the ground to understand the ques-
tion." So we should think; but what about the
Governor absenting himself from his post for
months at a time, (though heaven knows we
have no earthly use for him). "Enjoying the
repose and comforts of a New York hotel, etc,
etc., doing his best trying to work up a 
spirit of hostility against the "Mormons." I
think that none of the old settlers of Utah could
be found saying that "the earth yields forth
fruits by little labor; the more fertile spots in the
United States are found in the hands of the
Mormon Church, etc., etc." If the soft and
kid gloved hands of his Excellency, and a few
others of the same clique, had been hardened
with honest toil as have those of the "Mormon"
pioneer's, who, by their patient industry and
zeal, made habitable these same "fertile spots,"
they might be better able to judge, if not more
willing to tell the truth concerning Utah and
its founders, instead of making idiots of them-
selves, and venting their spleen upon the "Mor-
mons," thinking to gain more power aud popu-
larity by so doing; but they will go down as sure
as there is a God in heaven, just as others have
done, who have sought to infringe upon our
rights, and the disappointment of such we know
will be sufficient torment.
				   HELEN MAR WHITNEY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


THE WIDOW'S MITE

	THE WIDOW'S MITE ASSISTS TO BUILD THE
			LOGAN TEMPLE
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The subject of the Logan Temple is ever a
pleasing one to the Saints, especially is it so to
those of this Temple District, who have so gen-
erously given of their means and their labor to-
wards its erection, and as it approaches comple-
tion the greatness of the undertaking appears
more apparent, as also the magnitude of its cost.
	The total donations, as reported at our last
Quarterly Conference, showed the interest tak-
en by the Saints, and spoke loudly in their favor
and of the devotion they possess in regard to the
great Latter-day work, and an ardent desire for
the redemption of their dead.
	There is, however, a class of donors whose do-
nations are included in the total referred, to
which I wish to draw attention, who have aided
to swell the vast amount of contributions; that
of a number of widows, both in and out of the
district of our acquaintance, who have donated
2,108.23, which is truly the widow's mite.
	We have undertaken to complete a list of this
class of donors, and thinking there may  be


others, whose names we have not got we wish,
through the medium of the press, to call the at-
tention of the Bishops, and Presidents of Relief
Societies, and ask them to aid us in ascertaining
how many of such individuals reside in their re-
spective wards, and if possible the amount each
has donated, as we are unable in this office to
determine these facts on account of many dona-
tions being handed to us in bulk by these offi-
cers, for which we receipt the ward thus contri-
buting, and not individuals; more especially is
this the case among the wards comprising the
Temple District.  An offering of the kind in
question is peculiarly impressive, from the fact
that it is absolutely free from any affectation or
desire on the part of the person donating to be
seen of men, for the purpose of obtaining their
plaudits and approbation, but proceeding from a
pure desire to give to satisfy their consciences,
superindenced by a strong feeling of duty to as-
sist in such a laudable purpose, when taken in
connection with the circumstances that ordinar-
ily surround a person bearing the appellation of
a widow, the act takes on the character of a
sacrifice, and makes it doubly sanctified.  The
many donations of this class are well worthy the
admiration of the Saints, and should arouse a
spirit of zeal in their hearts to assist all in their
power to complete the Temple, that while the
widow gives her mite, sometimes all she hath,
the Saints out of their abundance may give
amply and have abundance left.  Many visitors
seem surprised at seeing the work so nearly fin-
ished, and express themselves well paid for the
interest they have taken in its erection, and
look forward with anxiety to its completion and
dedication, which is in the near future.
	Appreciating the generous acts of all who
have contributed towards the erection of the
House of the Lord,
	I remain, yours respectfulIy,
						C. O. Card.
Logan, Dec. 20th, 1833.


[Column 1]

IN MEMORIAM.

LORENZO M. RICHARDS.

	It is always painful to record the death of an esteemed
friend, but a duty and a privilege as well, to pay res-
pect and offer sympathy to those bereaved in the time
of trial. Brother Richards died in Ogden City, at the
residence of his father, Apostle F. D, Richards, on the
morning of December 21st, ult., aged 26 years. He was
a young man of great promise and had been a very ac-
tive and energetic business man, even though so young.
He was honored and admired, we might with safety say,
beloved by all who had the pleasure of his acquaintance.
His death was the result of an accident which occurred
while he was riding about six months before his demise.
His suffering a greater part of the time was most in-
tense, yet he was ever patient and marvelously cheerfnl
considering his physical pain.
	From a child he has always manifested a love for the
Gospel, and had unwavering faith in its principles. His
integrity was unquestioned, and his love of humanity
unbounded. During the long and severe illness of Br.
Richards he was carefully and faithfully nursed and
tended by his wife, his mother, and sister his father
and brothers also sharing the watching and attention
day and night.
	There are many who mourn with the family of Bro.
and Sister Richards, and deeply and truly sympathize
with them in their sorrow, but it is vain to offer conso-
lation to those bereaved until some tears have given re-
lief, then the words of Scripture and divine truth are the
sweetest that can be given to the human heart. Jesus
died and rose again, even so those who sleep in Jesus
shall also live again with Him. The same body which
is buried will rise again, purified and glorified. Paul
says, "It is sown in corruption, it is raised in glory, etc."
	The true Latter-day Saint does not fear death, it is
the rending asunder of the ties of affection that is pain-
ful. Bro. Lorenzo did not fear death, but he wished to
live to fill his mission on the earth, and he was abund-

[Column 2]

dantly happy in his home ties. May our Father in mer-
cy soften the grief of his young wife, of his father and
mother, and help them to look beyond the grave to the
immortal reunion in the celestial kingdom, is our most
sincere prayer.

RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED TO THE FAMILY.
[From the Ogden Herald.]

From a couch of pain and sorrow
	Has a noble spirit risen,
Soaring up to joyful morrow,
	Where the worlds in splendor glisten
Round the throne of the Eternal
	In His majesty and pow'r,
Where a cycle's but diurnal
	And a century but an hour.

Round his lifeless form are weeping
	Parents, wife, child, sisters, brothers—
Weep ye not; he's only sleeping;
	Faithful hope love's anguish smothers.
Bravely with the body's illness
	Waged his manly soul the fight,
Till he conquered in the sillness
	Of that last and sombre night.

Though the eye of mortal blindnes
	Cannot peer behind the veil,
We've assurance that his kindness,
	Truth, and honor did not fail
To secure him in celestial
	Regions that exalted crown
Which so far exceeds telestial
	And terrestrial renown.

Ere this has his unclogged spirit
	Entered through the sacred portal,
True to promise to inherit
	Glories, bliss, and life immortal.
Weep ye not—Lorenzo's waiting
	For ye all beyond the shore
Where earth's ties are reunited
	To be sundered nevermore.

COM.

	Resolutions of Respect to the memory of Margaret
Ann Cluff, who departed this life September 20th, 1883:
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father has seen fit in His Al-
wise Providence to call from our midst our beloved sis-
ter, Margaret Ann, wife of Harvey H. Cluff;
	Resolved, That we recognize in the death of our sis-
ter the loss of an able, efficient and devoted saint and
co-laborer with Mary John as counselors to Margaret T.
Smoot, president of the Utah Stake Relief Society; also
as president of the Relief Society of the Sandwich Is-
lands.
	Resolved, That we condole and deeply sympathize
with the bereaved family and friends in the loss of a
kind and affectionate wife, and estimable woman and
a faithful advocate of the Gospel, who has gone to join
her children in a more extended sphere of usefulness.
	Resolved, that we chrish her memory and regard her
virtues as ever worthy of emulation.
	Resolved, that these resolutions be spread upon the
records of each Relief Society in Utah Stake, also that
a copy be furnished the bereaved family, also the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT for pnblication.
	MARY J. TANNER,
	ALICE S. NEWEL,
	ANN S. DUGDALE,
	SARAH GOODMAN,
	MARIA J. BOOTH,
	CAROLINE DANIELS, Secretary.


OUR TRAVELS BEYOND THE
			MISSISSIPPI

	BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY

	I remember how nearly forlorn I felt some
of the time during those dismal, stormy days;
being in Bp. Whitney’s camp I was separated
from my dear mother by an almost impassable
road of mud, and was all of a quarter of a
mile away from father’s camp.  So one morn-
ing I undertook the disagreeable and perilous
journey on the back of a little white Ginnie,
which Father Lot had given to one of the Bp’s
little boys in Nauvoo, and, by the by, she had
carried me over the Mississippi the last time
that I crossed it to Sugar Creek, accompanied
by Horace on his pony.


[Column 1]	
	Ginnnie stood about three feet from the 
ground, and the mud being so deep, I felt some
dubiety about our accomplishing the journey
that day in safety, but being stimulated by a
touch of home-sickness I persevered without
regard to appearance or the mud, with which
I was gererously bespattered. On the oppo-
site side of the road from father's camp was
the camp of the Nauvoo Brass Band, and O[-]
their woe-be-gone appearance I could never for-
get; and how I looked over at them with a pity-
ing gaze from the door of my mother's wagon.
They were actually swamped in mud; but what
was most surprising, under the circumstances,
not a sad face did I behold. The women were
out around, and would give me a cheerful nod
as they were attending to their domestic duties
and all the camps were in a similar condition.
The following incident was related to me con-
cerning Bro. Wm. Pitt and wife, who, like
some of the rest, were sick with the ague
caused by the cold and wet weather, and one
night they were left behind in the mud, and
were not missed till late the next morning
when some of the band went back and found
them. Those were sorry times, but who, be-
sides the Latter-day Saints, can understand or
explain the reasons for such patience, and even
cheerfulness under like circumstances, having
been expelled, though they were law-abiding
citizens, from their homes, and at that time of
the year, enduring such hardships and priva-
tion, that would have disheartened any but
the true Saints, who were willing to make sac-
rifice and be tried, even though it be seven
times in the furnace of affliction.
	"Monday 23rd," Horace wrote, "This after-
noon, about two o'clock, had quite a hail
storm,	continued storming with
rain and hail alternately through the day and
night. Yesterday Bro. John Butler came
from Bishop Miller's camp, which is seven
miles ahead—he seems to like to be in advance
of the main body, as he always pulls up stakes
at our approach, and goes ahead with his com-
pany. Brother Butler thinks it would be a
good idea to go back twenty miles or so in or-
der to get on a road which goes through the
settlements, as the country through which we
are traveling affords scarcely any provender for
our cattle, some of them having had no susten-
ance for two days, with the exception of what
they could browse in the woods."
	On Tuesday we had snow which continued
with little cessation through the day.  "In the
afternoon," wrote Horace, "Bros. Pond and
Burns went into the country about eight miles
and bought twenty bushels of corn at twenty-
five cents a bushel—rather scarce at that price.
	To-day saw three deer carried by
our tent that had been killed by the hunters—
first that we have seen on our journey.
	"Wednesday 25th. Continued snowing
through the day till evening, when it cleared 
off pleasant. This afternoon Brother Pond
took my colt and two of our team horses into
the country with the intention of exchanging 
them for oxen.
	"Thursday 26th. Tolerably fair to-day—
hail fell a little this afternoon—saw Bp. Miller, 
P.P. Pratt, O. Pratt and George A. Smith
pass by our tent on their way home; they came
up from Bp. Miller's camp by request to hold
council.
	"Friday 27th.	This forenoon
Bro's Brigham and Heber went ahead seven
miles to Father John Smith's camp, where they
were met by Bp. Miller and where he had
formerly been encamped, but which he had
left and gone a few miles ahead. Here they
proceeded to make a new organization of the 
companies. B. Young, H.C. Kimball, P.P.
Pratt, John Taylor, Peter Haws and Bp. Mil-
ler, who had formerly been captains of com-
panies were promoted to the office of president,
and their places filled by others. In our com-

[Column 2]
pany the vacancy of the office of captain was
filled by Stephen Marham, an able and effici-
ent officer. In each company there was ap-
pointed two commissaries and a clerk. In our
company the leading commissary is David
Yearsley. His business is to go ahead and en-
gage grain, procure jobs for the company, etc.
Our distributing commissary is Jedediah M.
Grant, whose business it is to distribute corn,
oats, etc., when brought into the camp. Our
clerk is John Pack, whose business it is to re-
cord all essential matters pertaining to the com-
pany.
	"Saturday, 28th. To-day a council was held,
but little was done except ratifying what was
done yesterday at Father Smith's camp.
The roads are improving, though there are
some very bad places ahead yet, as we learn
from our men who occasionally go out in pur-
suit of game, which in this section consists
principally of deer and turkeys. There has
been a number of them already brought into
camp."
	Bishop Whitney disposed of a feather bed
at this place valued at $9.00 in exchange for
a cow, with a man living six or seven miles in
the country. Brother Pond returned, having
disposed of the colt and another team horse
for two yoke of oxen. He had been over in
the State of Missouri where he made the trade,
and one of the oxen proving lame Brother
Pond swapped him for another, giving $9.00
"to boot;" On the 31st O.P. Rockwell re-
turned from Nauvoo. My husband and broth-
er Wm. received some papers from Phineas
Kimball, brother-in-law to Sarah M. Kimball.
Porter started back to Nauvoo in a few days.
	Wednesday, April 1st, Horace wrote, "Brig-
ham, with all the camp except our fifty, start-
ed on their journey—intend going only six
miles to Father Smith's camp, where they are
to wait till we come up in order to hold a
council. To-day father's company employed
themselves in making ox yokes and doing
other chores necessary for the journey.
This evening wrote a letter to Nauvoo for H.
C. Kimball."
	Thursday, 2nd.  "About half past eight
struck our tents and proceeded to Father
Smith's camp on Shoal Creek, where we found
Bro. Brigham.		When we
arrived they were holding council. Bro. Kim-
ball went to it and returned with the news that
we were going on; consequently his company—
the artillery and some others went on five
miles farther and encamped on Prarie Creek,
a branch of Shoal Creek, leaving Bro Brig-
ham's company behind—were piloted a short 
distance by Bishop Miller and another brother
who then rode on to their camp.
Took leave of Porter at Brigham's camp, who
returns to Nauvoo to-day the bearer of several
letters. This day quite cloudy, but no rain.
Before leaving Shoal Creek camp unloaded one
of my wagons and sent it after corn with an-
other, putting the load on one of the other
wagons. Crossed the Missouri State line this
afternoon."
	"Friday, 3rd. This morning soon after
breakfast Brigham's company overtook us—
after stopping a few minutes went on to Bish-
op Miller's camp, where they intend to feed.
During last night three of our oxen strayed
away, consequently were detained after the
rest of the company had left. I proceeded on
foot to Bishop Miller's camp—had not gone far
before it commenced raining, which continued
through a greater part of the day and night."
Some of our experience during those days
could not be written, neither could time erase
them from my memory. This day that he
last mentions the road lay over a prarie, and
the earth being soft and inundated with the
previous rains, all that could were obliged to
walk to favor the poor animals. Our feet
would sink into the deep mud at every step,

[Column 3]
and some of us came near being minus of
shoes; as for umbrellas, they were rare articles,
and we had the cold, pitiless rain beating
down upon us all the way till we were chilled
and shaking with the cold, and were very
grateful to find a sheler and a comfortable fire
in Bishop Miller's tent, where something warm
was given us to drink before ascending the
steep hill on the opposite side of Shoal Creek.
Bishop Miller was encamped on the south fork
of that strem, and father took his company
on to the top of the hill, where we encamped.
Horace continues,  "Thinking the rain might
hinder father from coming on, I started back,
had not gone far before I met Brother John-
son (of the artillery) who informed me that 
father had recovered his cattle, the men sent
out in pursuit having found a man in the act 
of driving them off,		being
about twelve miles from here, he is said to
have been seen in our camp this morning.
Father started about one o'clock and arrived
here at three p.m., and encamped with Bro. 
Kimball's company. We had not been here
more than two hours before the team that had
been sent out in pursuit of corn arrived, bring-
ing fifty-one bushels. After ascending the 
hill Brigham with his company continued on.
	Joseph Kingsbury broke one
of the thills of his buggy this morning soon
after starting, occasioned by the horse jumping
suddenly."
	"Saturday, 4th. From the rain of the pre-
vious day and night the little creek on which
we are encamped is much swollen; continued
raining through the day and night, consequent-
ly had to remain with pitched tents."
	"Sunday, 5th. This morning the sun arose
in unclouded splendor. Brother Kimball
called the poeple of the camp together and ex-
horted them to the observance of several du-
ties which had hitherto been neglected—one
of which was that the captain of each ten
should call his company together and partake 
of the sacrament, which was accordingly 
done."
	On waking next morning we found it rain-
ing, and continued on without cessation till
evening, when it had the appearance of clear-
ing off, but all at once, as Horace describes it,
"the sky was obscured with dark heavy clouds,
the distant roaring of the wind was heard,
which accompanied by a cold rain, soon burst
upon us with all its fury, blowing off hats and
caps,and prostrating the tents, of which but few
were found standing in the morning. Though 
the storm, or rather hurricane, continued the
most of the night, but little other damage was
sustained, except the inconvenience of being
wet by the constant dripping of the rain
through the covers of the wagons, where we
slept, or rather, passed the night."
	I remember this very well. The camps were
about ready to retire to rest when the storm
overtook us; some were in the act of evening
worship and others were preparing their beds
or closing their tents and wagons for the night,
when the hurricane overtook us "as a thief in
the night," and not a wagon cover or tent could
withstand it except the ones that were fastened
down. Those who had no covering sought
shelter with the ones that had till morning,
when the tents were pitched and things right-
ed. Next day it was very cold and windy,
though tolerably fair. The day previous men
had again been sent into the country for corn.
	To be Continued.


118	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Man's best powers point him Godward.—
Spurgeon.
	Edward Everett Hale estimates that 10,000
men whose daily business is selling liquors
over the counter voted for license in Boston
last Tuesday.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 119


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

UTAH COUNTY.

	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Societies of Utah County, held in the
meeting house, Provo City, Nov. 3rd, 1883,
Counselor Mary John presiding. Ma Smoot
was with us again, also Sister Zina D.H.
Young. Meeting opened with the usual exer-
cises of singing and prayer, reading of minu-
tes of former conference; also reading of the
Resolutions of Respect to Margaret Ann Cluff,
who since our last conference had left us for a
holier sphere.
	Sister John felt thankful to see Sister
Smoot with us again, and to see the house
so well filled with the sisters. Would like to
hear from the president of each society, as
there were no written reports this conference.
	The presidents, but with few exceptions,
some being absent, responded to the call, re-
ported a good feeling generally among the sis-
ters, and a desire to do all in their power to
care for the poor and the needy, and to help to
build up the Kingdon of God, but as a general
thing it was the faithful few who were ready to
respond to every call made upon them.
	Ma Smoot made an effort to speak to the sis-
ters, but her feelings so overcame her that she
could not say what she wished. She said, "My
sisters, I feel more than I can express; I am
happy to be in your midst again, and to see so
many faces here to greet me. I pray that I
may yet be able to be with you again; I feel to
bless you in the name of Jesus, and I pray the
Lord God of Israel to bless you all. Amen."
	Sister Young said, if I should do justice to
my feelings I should like to sit still and listen
to the sisters. The Spirit of God is in our
midst. The spirit that is within us creates an
influence around us. Evil influences are as
contagious as small-pox, Let us purge our-
selves of every iniquity; let us have faith in
God, and not fear, for when our hearts are
filled with fear we cannot have faith. We
have a beacon light ahead to guide us, let us
make fast our feet in the Gospel of Christ; we
are making rapid strides but sometimes I
think we are very slow. Let us not put any-
thing between us and the Spirit of God. Sis-
ter Young spoke a short time in the interest
of the silk. Bore her testimony also to the
truth of celestial marriage; said that the Proph-
et Joseph was told that this work could not
progress till celestial marriage was practiced.
	Sister Beebe, President of the Utah County
Silk Association, spoke in the interest of the so-
ciety; told in brief what they were doing, and
what they were trying to do, etc. A sister at
her house was weaving silk, had woven forty-
five yards; some of it was woven for handker-
chiefs; there was one dress pattern, a small
check black and white, twilled very nice; the
goods were on exhibition at the stand. The sis-
ters were invited to come and inspect them at
the close of the meeting; there was also some
silk prepared for filling another piece of goods,
cleansed and colored by Sister Beebe; it was a
bright blue, and will make nice material for
dresses when woven, it is in the loom now. The
silk business, in Utah County, is progressing
slowly but surely. Conference adjourned till
2 p.m.
	Afternoon session opened with singing and
prayer. A few of the presidents reported their
societies, after which Sister Young spoke again
on various subjects; first in the interest of the
Deseret Hospital, thanking the sisters for their
help, said their expenses were great and their
income small.
	The speaker spoke of the deep laid plans to
overthrow this people, of the secret societies
that were being organized for that purpose, etc.
She advised the sisters to read the papers an
become informed of what was transpiring

[Column 2]
the world; and said, rear your children in hab-
its of industry. When we are gone our child-
ren will have to carry on our work. Never
speak lightly of anyone before your children,
they remember it, and may speak of it again.
The Gospel enters into our everyday life.
Help those that are weak, do not condemn any-
one. I believe there is an increase of faith
among the sisters. Let us pray that Ma
Smoot may stay with us till she does the work
for her dead friends.
	We know in whom we trust. It is those
that are looking for Him that will be ready
when He comes. We are drawing nearer to
our God; let us invite the good spirit; we do not
know what a power it is, shielding us from evil.
God is merciful, let us humble ourselves be-
fore Him. My heart is full. I pray that the
peace of God may be with us and around about
us forever.
	Sister Tiffany bore her testimony to the
truth of this work, and also spoke in tongues,
which was interpreted by Sister Young.
	Bro. John said he had been pleased in listen-
ing to the remarks of the sisters, could endorse
what had been said; spoke on the word of wis-
dom. We must be Saints in very deed; we
must not oppose the law of God. Our enemies
are trying to destroy us; we must get more of
the Holy Spirit, and it will help us even unto
death. Be kind to each other, sustain those
over you, and if any have done wrong let
them have a chance to reform, and be humble
and wise. We cannot be too humble, etc.
	Bishop Johnson followed with a few remarks,
exhorting all to faithfulness in performing
every duty. Conference adjourned for three
months. Benediction by Bishop Johnson.
				CAROLINE DANIELS,
							Secretary.

SANPETE STAKE

	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Society of Sanpete Stake of Zion, held
at Moroni, Dec. 15th, 1883, President M. A. P.
Hyde presiding, assisted by her Counselors,
Sisters E. Allred and S. Peterson. Conference
opened with the usual exercises of singing and
prayer, reading of minutes and reports. Presi-
dents of the various branch societies gave ver-
bal reports, also bore faithful testimonies to the
Latter-day work.
	Prest. M. A. P. Hyde addressed the confer-
ence. Spoke of the difference between the
present time and twenty years ago, when
mothers had to toil and spin, etc.
	Sister Sarah Peterson gave an account of her
visit to the east; dwelt upon the different relig-
ions of the world. Spoke concerning the gath-
ering of wheat; said Brigham Young was a
Prophet of God; and he encouraged it. Im-
pressed the mothers to exert an influence
with their sons and daughters to keep them
pure and spotless, so that they might be pre-
pared to enter into the house of the Lord.
	Helen A. Madsen, Stake President of the
Primary Associations of Sanpete Stake, spoke
on the subject of celestial marriage; said those
who were entering into it were going into a
higher school, and it would save and exalt
them in the Kingdom of God.
	Bishop Irons felt to greet the sisters in con-
ference, and asked the blessings of Almighty
God to rest upon them, etc.
	Singing. Benediction. Conference adjourned
to meet again at 1:30 p.m.
	Afternoon session opened with singing and
prayer. Sister E. Allred addressed the sisters
on our many privileges, which, if we lived up
to, would prove a great blessing unto us.
Prayed God to bless the sisters of Moroni.
	Prest. M. A. P. Hyde bore her testimony on
celestial marriage; and said that she was sealed
to her husband by the Prophet Joseph Smith,
and had lived in that order now forty years,
and knew and realized that it was a glorious

[Column 3]
principle. She than sang in tongues, which
was very heavenly.
	Bishop Allred was thankful for Relief So-
cieties, and all associations that were organized
by command of the Lord. Dwelt upon the
law of tithing, etc., etc.
	Bishop Madsen testified that the Spirit of
the Lord had been in our midst throughout
the conference. Advised the sisters to teach,
and do all the good they could, and the Lord
would bless them.
	At the close of the conference the Moroni
Brass Band played some lively tunes, and
charmed the people with their enlivening
music. Conference adjourned to meet at Foun-
tain Green, March 15th, 1884.
			MARY A. HYDE, Secretary,
			NORAH ROBINSON, Asst. Scc'y.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The enclosed minutes sent were written by
young beginners, who have been chosen and
voted in to take the place of Sister Delia Kof-
ford, and assistant secretary. Sister F. Kofford's
family have been very faithful in the discharge
of their duties, as secretaries in this ward, and
in the stake for many years. They have ten-
dered their resignations of necessity, to attend
to other duties. Sister Delia will probably
move to another field of labor, where I hope
she may be appreciated as she deserves to be, as
a good and faithful member of society. May
the blessings of God attend her.
						M. A. P. HYDE.
	Spring City, Dec. 19th, 1883.


ETHICS OF SLEEP.—The ethics of good sleep
should form a part of household morality. It
is hardly an extravagant assertion that com-
paratively few people, after childhood is passed,
know by experience what perfect sleep is, and
satisfy themselves with a poor apology for this
most perfect refreshment.  Rising tired and
weary from a disturbed, imperfect sleep they
proceed to summon up lost energies by strong
tea or coffee, which in its turn again interferes
with perfect rest at night, and this process of
life, more than any mental or physical labor,
wears women out and makes them prematurely
old. “I have been reading myself to sleep
after retiring,” said a Boston woman the other
day; “and when I have done this for two or,
three nights I can see that I look five years
older.” It is an experience that any woman
can verify, and conversely, she can see that
sleeping in a perfectly dark and well ventilated
room brings back the contour and the roses of
childhood or early youth.
	The most perfect sleep is obtained by care-
fully closing the blinds, raising and lowering
the windows  to admit plenty of pure air, and
drawing down the heavy shades, thus making
the room perfectly dark.  Then, on going to
bed, go there to sleep, not to write or read, or
think or plan, but for the most valuable of all
things, the foundation of all activity and ener-
gy,—perfect sleep.  A few nights of this ex-
perience will work a magic transformation in
looks and in feelings.
	Above all, let us divest ourselves of a tra-
ditional prejudice that there is somehow virtue
in early rising.  When early sleep is obtained
early rising is indicated by nature, by waking;
but artifically produced it is pernicious.  Un-
less there is an exceptional reason, it is far
wiser to sleep till one wakens naturally, and
one hour then will do the work of three when,
one comes to it tired, unrefreshed, “Nature's
sweet restorer” is of all things, the most invig-
orating.—Selected.


Those with whom we can apparently become
well acquainted in a few moments are general-
ly the most difficult to rightly know and un-
derstand.—Hawthorne.


WOMAN’S’ EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
﻿THE TENTH PLAGUE OF EGYPT.

Egypt, the mighty queen of earth, haughty and
Proud, had dared to measure arms with
The poor Hebrew’s God.
Joseph and his great work were long forgotten
Or ignored by him who now the sceptre
Swayed with iron hand;
Israel, the foster-child, was now a slave,
Bending beneath the heavy load and galling
Chains of thraldom.
Long had their cries ascended unto heaven
Unto their God, forgotten, maybe, in their
Brightest hours,
But the All-merciful heard and forgave,
And now the time for their deliverance
Had come; Moses with his mighty
Rod stood forth at God's command to
Lead them out of bondage.
Pharaoh had laughed to scorn the 
Mandates of Jehovah to let His people go
To worship, and fulfill their covenants
To Him, had sneering asked if it
Was with the breath of children, the
White hairs of second childhood or
The straws of their brick-kilns that the
Eternal throne of Egyyt was to be confounded.
To Moses the Lord had said:
"I have made thee a God to Pharaoh and
Aaron shall be thy prophet;
Speak unto him all that I command thee,"
So undaunted had they stood, yet meek
And helpless (so far as mortal aid was theirs)
Before the king and his fierce soldiers,
With ax and spear ready to drink their blood;
Nine times had that mysterious rod been
Lifted o'er Egypt, and each time been
Followed with new horrors, the thought
Alone of which to-day turns the heart
Sick and faint; yet was the
Hebrew still in chains.
	Egypt, though desolate, unyielding still,
Then said the Lord to Moses, yet one more
Plague will I bring to Pharaoh and
Egypt, then surely will he let you go,
"Say now unto my people take of the 
Blood of a lamb and sprinkle the
Lintel and the two side posts, and
None of them shall go out of the door
Of his house until the morning,
For at midnight shall I go forth to
Smite all the first born of Egypt, and
They shall die; but I will pass by my
People that hearken to my command,
That all may know that I am the Lord in
The midst of the earth."
	Ah, fearful night that followed, such
As the world had never known before
Nor will again;
Surely as night crept down all Egypt
Must have felt the coming doom.
We read with careless eye in holy writ,
"The first-born of the land shall die;"
But can we realize its dire fulfillment?
From the king's palace to the home low,
Death in its fearful march this night shall go.
No home but had its dead, from each
Came forth the ery of bitter woe and wild
Despair, and the beast, too, mourned their
Dead with almost human grief;
While above the wall of lamentation
A voice was heard proclaiming,
"This for the blood of the Hebrew children;"
Surely their's had not cried to heaven
In vain.

	Can any dream what Hebrew parents
Felt in their long watch that night?
For surely not an eye was closed, as in
Deep awe and heartfelt prayer they
Watched and waited, hearing the
Wail of their oppressor's mortal anguish;
Their wild, fierce lamentation,
Then with what job heard they the words
Of the stricken king--
"Get ye forth from among my people."
Then were their fetters broken, then
Did a nation of slaves breathe the
Sweet breath of freedom, and with
Faces set towards Canaan's land went
Forth to offer sacrifice and songs of
Praises to God, their great Deliverer.		HOPE. 

[Column 2]
	EXERCISE.--Exercise is a necessity; it pros
longs life, and greatly improves living; it fits
us better for our duties; without it, we do not 
more than half live.  He only who exercises
sufficiently can know the joy of good health-
good digestion, refreshing sleep.  It causes the
blood to circulate quickly, freely, and equally,
and will drive away the blues.  It increases
respiration, thus bringing a larger quantity of 
the elixir of life, oxygen, to purify and vital-
ize the blood.  It rounds and hardens the mus-
cles, and educates them into ever-ready, faith-
ful and efficient servants of the will.  It lim-
bers the joints and strenthens every part of 
the body.  It invigorates the mind, and ren-
ders it active and efficient in all its operations.
--Ex.


A stranger, journeying in France, fell sick
unto death. His friend called in a physician,
who demurred about giving him professional
services, fearing the wherewithal might not be
forthcoming to settle his bill. The friend, pro-
ducing a one hundred franc bill, said:
	"Kill him or cure him, this is yours."
	The sick man died and was buried, and the
doctor, finding his money slow to appear, re-
minded the survivor of the debt.
	"Did you cure him?" he asked.
	"No, sir."
	"Did you kill him?"
	"Certainly not."
	"Then you have no claim on me, sir. I wish
you good-day."


OBITUARY.  
     Died. in Salt Lake City, Utah, December 17th., 1883,
of inflammation of the bowels, Jemima, the beloved
wife of the late Charles Brown, and daughter of John
and Dinah Offes.  Deceased was born at Loring, County
of Norfolk, England, April 8, 1814.  She joined the
Chnrch of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in early
days and passed through many trying events, but was
ever true to her covenants, and died as she had lived, a
faithful Latter-day Saint.				Com.
     Millennial Star please copy.


FOR SALE at this Office.
	BOOKS by ELIZA R. SNOW
PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos 1 and 2	25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book, 	40c
POEMS, By E.R. Snow, Vol 1
"	Vol. 2 containing steel engraving
	of the author, bound in morocco, 1.25
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, 1.50
	MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP, M.D.
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
	Office and residence, South Temple Street, one
	block and a half west of the Valley House
	SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
	OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN
A LARGE STOCK
OF HOME MADE TRUNKS for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building, also HOME MADE
	Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
	Flannels,	White Yarns,	Wool Batting,
	Shawls,	Colored Yarns, Brooms,
	Linseys,	Cassimers,	Washboards,
	Jeans,	Tweeds,		Brushes, Etc. Etc.
MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M..D.
	OFFICE 15 GODBE, PITTS & COB BUILDING
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence Twelfth
	Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
	    Special Attention given to Disease of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
	OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence
	ESTALISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z. 	C. 	M. 	I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah
	IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF  
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS,GROCERIES
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS 
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
	PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
	GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
	H.S. ELDREDGE, Supt.
	Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
				in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
		RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
		and an elgant assortment of
	DRY GOODS:
special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118, East Temple Street.
	HENRY DINWOODEY
FURNITURE,
		WALL PAPER,
CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBERQUINS
	AND WINDOW CORNICES
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
	SALT LAKE CITY.
Auerbach & Bro.
	A Full and Complete Stock of
		MILLINERY
	Spring and Summer Goods
	AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS
	CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 12.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15, 1884.	No. 16.


TO PEARL.

[INFANT DAUGHTER OF LORENZO W. RICHARDS
DECEASED.]

How strong are the ties 'tween the dearest and truest,
	How ruthless is death when he snaps them in twain!
When we sense that some loved one can never come to
	us,
	How crushed is the heart with the parting and pain.
The glorified dead are the fortunated only—
	Misfortune and sorrow no more will they know;
Alas! for the living, the loving and lonely—
	Only those who have suffer'd can fathom their woe.

God grant it, indeed, that these sorrowful mourners
	May prove that for good our afflictions are given;
We're here but "to-day," even transient sojourners;
	To-morrow you'll meet with the lov'd ones in heaven.

To the sweet, tender bud from the tree now trans-
	planted
	We offer this tribute of pity sincere;
Not for thee is the boon that to many is granted,
	The protection and love of a father so dear.

May the angels of mercy be charg'd to attend thee;
	May your sorrow bear fruit of the loveliest kind;
To the love of "the Father of all" we commend thee,
	In whom ev'ry orphan a Parent can find.

While you mourn for the father, whose name you can
	honor,
	His loss to your mother you never will know;
May your love be a light that will shine down upon her,
	And comfort her heart in despite of her woe.

For surely our children can comfort or grieve us
	More than anyone else in the whole world beside;
If of long cherish'd hopes by their deeds they bereave
	us,
	'Twould indeed have been better if early they'd died.

The name that you bear is both honor'd and hoary,
	'Tis known and respected at home and abroad;
Oh! be not the one to diminish its glory,
	Nor turn from the path that your fathers have trod.

For the truth may you seek, yea, and find the refreshing
	Pure waters of life as they flow from above.
May your life and your labors be truly a blessing
	To the Kingdom of God and the friends whom you
	love.				EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.


WOMEN IN POLITICS.
				-------
	Dr. W. Hammond has failed to produce
any physiological reasoning why women should
not exercise the right of franchise, and become
educated pertaining to the laws and politics of
the nation. Now, as we belong to that unfor-
tunate class whose brain is deficient in weight,
we would like to ask the learned philosopher
whether the superior intellect consists in the
quantity or quality.  This learned anatomist
further asserts that the governing power of the 
world is to be found in the brain of the male.
Where shall we go to find a precedent, not in
our own dear native land of liberty, but back
to the old monarchial governments of Europe.
We learn from history that queens have often
excelled kings in the administration of civil
government, not from a superior power of rea-
son or intellect, but from a clearer moral
sense of justice.
	It has been said that Isabella I. was the
greatest and noblest ruler that has ever gov-
erned Spain, because she sought to do right.
	Theresa Maria, with a very limited educa-
tion, was the wisest and best sovereign who has
held sway over Germany, because she labored
for the good of those she governed.  What is
said of Victoria of England.  Her refined
taste and graceful propriety of manuer, coupled
with her superior intellect has casued vice and
folly to retire abashed from her majesty's pres-
ence.  And 'tis said that the English people
rejoice when the sceptre passes into the hands
of a woman.  Compare the reign of this noble
woman with that of the kings who preceded
her, and see if her success as a ruler for the
last forty-three years will not encourage those
who are deficient in weight of intellect to cul-
tivate that organ, the brain. It is said by men
of knowledge had a king been in power that
England would have been involved in blood-
shed and war.  Compare the administration of
the government of the United States to-day
with that of England with that sacred instru-
ment, the Declaration of Independence, to
point out the way, and it should be  the poli-
tician what the compass is to the mariner at
sea; and while this heaven-born boon of free-
dom was held sacred and inviolate the admin-
istrators were blessed with wisdom and peace,
and prosperity reigned throughout the land.
What are they doing in Congress to-day?  Writ-
ing stringent bills in violation of the Constitu-
tion to oppress and destroy the portion of its
subjects that worship God according to the dic-
tates of their own consciene. How long will
free-born American citizens stand silently by
and never raise their voices against such pro-
ceedings; we declare to the world that we claim
and assert our consitutional rights; not chang-
ing the meaning of the clasue in the Consitut-
tion as the Supreme Court did in the Rey-
nold's case, making it mean you can believe as
you please; who ever heard of any one worship-
ing God by believing and not acting or speak-
ing.  Under a monarchial government Eng-
land protects her subjects and also foreigners
in their religious worship; while the represent-
atives of a republican government are disfran-
chising and oppressing, and have failed to pro-
tect a portion of its citizens in their constitu-
tional rights.  It is said that history repeats
itself.  When the iron heel of oppression, under
the monarchy of the old world, stood upon the
neck of our Puritan Fathers, insomuch that
their souls thirsted for freedom; they not only
braved danger in crossing the mighty deep, but
suffered privation and danger from the red
men of the forest, but laid down their lives for
that most sacred heaven-born boom, liberty.
Did not our mothers share in those perils and
dangers? Did they not feel the patriotic fire
of freedom burning in their inmost souls, in-
spiring them with courage to exclaim, on ,on,
to victory?  Now, we would ask the learned
philosopher of the nineteenth century, what
has been done by the party in power to ele-
vate women? What has been the popular
teaching of the past relative to woman's
sphere? Oh, she is too refined to meddle with
politics; it is not necessary for her to know
anything about the law; it is very unpopular
and not lady-like to go to the polls and vote.
What is the result?  Where are our states-
men and patriots?  Have they been regenera-
ting and progressing since '76? Read the Con-
gressional Records from the day that Cullom
Bill violated the spirit and letter of the Con-
stitution, that same spirit is prevailing in
the hearts of some of the senators and repre-
sentatives to destroy the original letter and
meaning of the Constitution, which is more sa-
cred and dear to every American citizen than
life itself. 			E. PLURIBUS UNUM.


A FEW THOUGHTS ON THE VEXED
QUESTION.

	We are pleased to note the stand which has
been taken by the Executive Committee of the
New York State Woman Suffrage Association
on the proposal of Senator Edmunds, to de-
prive the ladies of Utah of franchise. This is
highly commendable and much more saint-like
than the course advocated by him and others,
who are becoming cranky upon this "Mormon"
wife question—at least, when undertaking to
solve what they term "a problem," which does
not exist, only in their imagination. We
would like to ask some of the proud ladies of
our Christian land, whose squeamishness over
this plural order causes them to turn up their
eyes in such holy horror, and their lips with
scorn and contempt at the name of "Mormon,"
and also those who would advocate the extreme-
nation remedy proposed by some of their Chris-
tian divines and lady lecturers, who like Mrs.
Newman would like to see all "Mormon" wo-
men disfranchised, and feel themselves justified
in so doing, and sending circular letters to all
countries from whence the "Mormons" draw
their converts, describing the horrors of poly-
gamy in Utah, at the same time professing
for us such charity, do they fully realize, were
they to accomplish their ends, the great amount
of suffering, the weeping, the wailing and ut-
ter desolation that this would bring to the
hearts of the widow and the fatherless, whose
cries would ascend up daily and hourly to Him
who has promised to be their Father, until He
would avenge them of their wrongs? Do any
of them suppose for a moment that the women
of Utah would be such fools as to leave homes,
where they are called by the honored name of
wife, and their children acknowledged as law-
ful heirs to the father's name and estate, to
work in their establishments to earn their daily
bread? What palpable ignorance is exhibited
by such. It makes one laugh it sounds so lu-
dicrous. The idea of the ones who desire mak-
ing their escape from this Territory to do so by
an underground railroad. Why, one might
suppose that Mr. Newman had been asleep as
long as old Rip Van Winkle, and we feel to
pity him, we do indeed; and all the rest of them,
and were we not the most charitable people in
the world we should despise them for their ig-
norance, their superstition and slavish subjec-
tion to the current of popular opinion and
popular sentiment. But we assure such that we
are laboring for their enlightenment and their
elevation in the scale of manhood. And would
that they could see their own situation, and re-
alize that the most alarming and crying evils
of the day—the twin relic if they please—
which has so utterly demoralized society is
nearer home than Utah. We think it high
time that some effective and lasting remedy
should be administered instead of legalizing
the crimes of political theft and prostitution—
letting the harlot, the fornicator, the adulterer
and the murderer of innocents go "scot free,"
instead of fighting an imaginary evil which
has borne no such fruits. These are some of
the common usages and customs among those
self-righteous souls who preach morality and
go into occasional spasms over the marrying
propensity of these "Mormons," and would
trample them under foot, also the constitution,
and every law and principle of our govern-
ment, which we were taught from our earliest
childhood to love and revere. But will they


dare to apply this anti-republican, anti-chris-
tian method to the “Mormons,” and continue to
allow their vile and wicked practices to be
carried on right under the very nose of Chris-
tendom, and all these things be sustained and
screened under its broad mantle?  We would
welcome the honorable of the earth, and would
that they could all come and see for themselves,
if they would only let reason rule instead of
prejudice and hatred, the offspring of these
sleek and crawling sycophants and scandal-
mongers,who gain their living in our midst by
lying and distorting every truth to deceive the
simple and unwary—there is no other place
where such creatures could remain unpunished,
and the innocent be made the target of the
press and the pulpit—united only in the one
scheme—sweeping us out of existence, and tak-
ing possession of the rich harvest that lies so
temptingly before them.
  But though the hundreth decree has gone
forth that “Mormonism” must die, it never be-
fore appeared so much like living—in fact it
seems to have taken a new lease, and the heav-
ier the breeze, the swifter we will sail into note
and popularity.  Though our enemies have
never yet accomplished their ends, still they
seem very jubilant over their great expecta-
tions, particularly from the present philan-
thropic measures of Mr. Cullom, and there are
thousands who are willing and anxious to set
the dogs on us to speedily finish up their foul
work.  But we ask, in all conscience, why the
knife should not be first placed at the root of
the cancer which is eating and undermining
their own social circles, and if nothing else will
do but bloodshed let them begin there instead
of waging war upon an “ignorant, benighted
and superstious people, who are just simple
enough to accept the truth and nothing but the
truth, however humble may be the source; and
therefore are not half so likely to spoil as are
those who dwell in the polluted atmosphere of
the great metropolis, of which all are so well
posted—their own press being filled with ac-
counts of the most dishonest, wicked, corrupt,
and desperate deeds in high and low places,
and such unheard of crimes—that the sound of
it is enough to make one’s very blood curdle in
his veins.  The Latter-day Saints may feel
proud to be distinguished by their title, and
God grant that we may ever be worthy of this
distinction.  As President George Q. Cannon
remarked, in our late conference, “He evident-
ly designed this land for just such a people as
the Saints, and their enemies have driven them
to the fulfillment of their destiny.”
    Whose wrath is the most to be dreaded that
of the Almighty or that of His subjects, for
instance, these pharisees, priests, office-seekers,
and a few men who now form the Supreme
Court of the United States? Who besides Him
has the right or the power to prescribe for us
our religious belief and practice?  He tells us
that faith without works is dead—but Congress
passes a law to prohibit the free exercise there-
of, when they know as well as we, that they
are forbidden to do this by the Constitution--
Polygamy is upheld by Scripture, which they
also know. Then away with their flimsy ex-
cuses.  They hate us just as Cain hated Abel,
because we are favored of God, and it is our
union which they dread, and our wealth and
power is what they covet.
                             HELEN MAR WHITNEY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


DESTRUCTION AND DESOLATION
		YET TO COME.
			------
DEAR SISTERS:
	I often think how good it is that we have
the privilege of meeting together in our Asso-
ciations, and exchanging our  thoughts, for in
this way, we become unified.
	We learn in Doctrine and Covenants 143rd


page, 7th verse, that the elect of God are those
who do not harden their hearts.  The 8th
verse says; "Wherefore, the decree hath gone
forth from the Father, that they shall be
gathered in unto one place upon the face of
this land, to prepare their hearts and be pre-
pared in all things against the day when tribu-
lation and desolation are sent forth upon the wicked."
	I think if any people on the earth have
cause to rejoice it is the Latter-day Saints, and
yet we mourn to think there is so much hard-
ness of heart in the world, for the majority of
mankind reject the revelations which our
Heavenly Father has revealed in this dispen-
sation, whereby the inhabitants of the earth may
escape the calamities which will surely come.
	Doctrine and Covenants 144th page, 18th
and 19th verses says: "Wherefore, I, the Lord
God will send forth flies upon the face of the
earth, which shall take hold of the inhabit-
ants thereof, and shall eat their flesh, and
shall cause maggots to come in upon them, and
their toungues shall be staid, that they shall not
utter against me, and their flesh shall fall
from off their bones, and their eyes from their
sockets."
	The 20th verse says: "And it shall come to 
pass that the beasts of the forest and the fowls
of the air shall devour them up.:
	We do not fear, we only pity those who are
seeking to take our rights and liberties from us,
for we know to well what their fate will be.
The Bible also speaks of many things that will
befall those who persecute the church or Saints
of God.  Isaiah, 49th chapter, 26th verse says:
"And I will feed them that oppress thee with
their own flesh, and they shall  be drunken
with their own blood as with sweet wine, and
all flesh shall know that I, the Lord, am thy
Savior, and thy Redeemer, the Mighty One of
Jacob."
	In the 9th chapter of the Revelations of St.
John, it refers to locusts being sent upon the
earth, and unto them was given power as the
scorpions, and they should not hurt the grass
of the earth, neither any green thing, neither
any tree; but only those men which have not
the seal of God in their foreheads.
	The 6th says; "And in those days men shall
seek death, and shall not find it; and shall de-
sire to die and death shall flee from them. The
locusts are compared as horses prepared for
battle, and on their heads were, as it were,
crowns like gold, and their faces were as the
faces of men.."
	The 10th verse says: "And they had tails
like unto scorpions, and there were stings in
their tails: and their powere was to hurt men 
five months." Much more is said, but I
thought this enought.
	We feel more like praying for those who op-
press us, that they may repent while there is
time.  As for the true Saints, if we lay our
lives down in this cause we know that we shall
find them again.
					MARY J. MORRISON.
Manuscript Paper, Young Ladies' Herald of
Union, Spanish Fork, Dec. 17th 1883.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.

NEPHI, JUAB STAKE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The R. S. of Juab Co. held their Quarterly
Conference in the Nephi Meeting House, Dec.
15th, President Mary Pitchforth presiding.
After the usual devotional exercises, the min-
utes of the previous conference were read, also
the statistical and financial reports.
	The presidents of the different branches
gave verbal reports of their respective wards,
showing them to be in good condition and
working harmoniously with the Priesthood of
God.


Sister Elizabeth Kendall then bore a faith-
ful testimony to the truth of the Gospel; was
truly thankful that her life had been spared to
meet with the sisters again in a conference ca-
pacity; felt that these organizations had been
the greatest blessing ever conferred upon the
sisters, and that they appreciated their privi-
leges and were striving to qualify themselves
for every duty dependant upon them, both tem-
poral and spiritual.
	Counselor Joel Grover was the next speaker;
expressed his gratitude for the privilege of
meeting with the sisters and partaking of the
Good Spirit; exhorted the sisters to faithful-
ness; said the trials and difficulties encumbered
upon us by our enemies seemed to give us en-
ergy and strength.
	Sister Jane Picton spoke of the Salvation
Army in the world, thought the title would be
a very appropriate one for the sisters of the R.
S. Said they were truly a salvation army, for
they were laboring for the temporal as well as
the spiritual salvation of the human family.
Our enemies are doing all they can to anni-
hilate us, but if we are true and free from sin
they cannot overpower us.
	Bishop Udall spoke for a short time, and en-
couraged the sisters in a kind, fatherly way;
prayed for God's blessings to attend their la-
bors. After singing and prayer the conference
adjourned till 2 p.m.
	The conference convened at 2 p.m. accord-
ing to appointment. After singing and prayer
Sister Amy Bigler spoke of the progress of the
society here, and the duties and responsibilities
of mothers in rearing their children.
	Short addresses were made by Sisters Han-
nah Grover, A. Midgely, N. Brown, and R.
Udall, in an encouraging and sisterly man-
ner.
	President Wm. Paxman spoke of the indig-
nation and bitter feelings of the world against
us as a people, of their plots and schemes to
destroy us; also spoke of the financial crisis
which is bound to fall upon this people; advised
all to keep out of debt, be economical and ab-
stain from all unnecessary luxuries; seek the
Spirit of God and act with wisdom in all
things, and be prepared for the great events
which await us.
	President Mary Pitchforth wished to thank
the brethren and sisters for the prayers they
had offered in her behalf during her late ill-
ness; was truly happy to be able to meet with
them in a conference capacity. Conference
adjourned for three months.
			MARY PITCHFORTH, President.
			M. E. HOYT, Secretary.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	The woman's department in the Hospital
for the Insane, in Indianapolis, is hereafter to
have a women physician. For more than
twenty years Dr. Mary F. Thomas has labored
through every available channel for the ap-
pointment of a woman physician in the Insane
Asylum, bringing the subject before every Leg-
islatnre and before the Indiana State Medical
Society. Others have urged the measure, and
now it is an accomplished fact.
	A beautiful lamp shade cover is made of gar-
net satin ribbon, torchon lace and small plush
balls. To find the needed lengths of ribbon
and lace, measure around the bottom of the
shade and allow for each three inches more
than the exact measurement. Run the lace
neatly on the edge of the ribbon and sew to-
gether. Shirr the ribbon three-quarters of an
inch from the upper edge, leaving the shirr
string long enough to tie underneath. Fasten
the balls on the lace, and embroider all the
solid parts of the lace with embroidery-silk cor-
responding in color with the ribbon nsed.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.				1


ADDRESSED TO SISTER PRESENDIA
			KIMBALL.
It should be higher pens than mine to sing thy praise,
And grateful peans to thy memory raise,
But in the speaking silence breathing round
My trumpet small gives no uncertain sound!
But craves to speak the truth regarding thee,
And which would fill a volume grand and free.
Thy life is known to Saints of latter days,
In holy rites, and round the sick one's bed
Thy gentle step is heard with noiseless tread,
To bless, to comfort and prescribe in faith
Some simple remedy that may save from death!
And then thy prayer--a sister's prayer of love
Calls down a blessing from the realms above!
Yes, many, many hast thou blest indeed,
By means so gentle, yet so grand in need;
And then the form--from whence the living breath
Has pass'd, and laid the weary one in death,
With pure and holy touch thy hand has deck'd
In saintly robes the body death has wreck'd,
And given peace and satisfaction in that hour
To loving friends who mourn death's awful power.
Who does not know the balm it brings to see
Our treasured dead approach'd with sanctity?
They have become so sacred in our eyes
As though a part of us had pass'd into the skies!
As though by some mysterious means we had become
Allied more closely with our eternal home!
In many such a sad, yet holy scene,
Hast thou a kind, efficient helper been;
And now in your declining years, dear friend,
May friends be round you till the final end
In sweet acknowledgement of days gone by,
When you in times of need were ever nigh,
Not only to the rich, but chiefly to the poor
Thy aid was freely given o'er and o'er;
A crown eternal is in store for you,
But earthly blessings now are surely due.
The things of earth the earthly body needs,
And nature is imperative when'er she pleads,
Yet oft, alas! through life we often find
the good, the pure the noble and the kind
Lack much, which they in truth have fairly earned,
But well I know you have the lesson learned
To be content with that you do possess,
And feel the hand of God to thank and bless.

Dear friend, my heart feels full in praise of thee;
Long may your life be lengthen'd out to be
A calm sweet evening now "the day is done,"
And God, and you, and all the Saints be one,
Such is my heart's devotest fervent prayer;
I crave your friendship I may ever share.
Accept the simple song my heart doth sing
Your friend and sister, HANNAH TAPFIELD KING.


[Column 1]

THE HUNTINGTON GATHERING.

	The event of the season with us, as a family, was the
gathering of all the members of the Huntington family
possible, at Springville last Christmas. It seems so pleas-
ant to record scenes of joy and gladness in this world of
disappointment and sorrow, and among the bright spots
of my life will ever gleam that of my meeting with my
loved and honored kindred, the 25th of December
1883.
	Onr programme was as follows: Visiting cousins,
aunts, uncles, etc. through the day, and at six p.m. we
all assembled at the City Hall, a large and beautiful
building, which had been secured for the occasion by
William, the eldest male member of our kin in this Ter-
ritory. The large hall was brilliantly lighted; with
dear Aunt Presendia, my honored mother and dear Aunt
Fanny, Uncle Dimick's widow, Uncle's William and
Oliver sitting on the stage, made as grand and beauti-
ful a picture as one would wish to look at, with a few
friends and sub members of the family as a back ground.
Facing them, in the body of the hall, were the sons and
daughters with their husbands and wives and their
children; which are not a few, and a few invited friends,
complete the picture. A solemn hush, a sweet peace
stole over the assembly, broken by that immortal
hymn "O! My Father." Prayer by Bishop Packard. A
song selected from the history of the Huntingtons, that
was composed for a similar occasion, in Stanford Conn.,
1857, "A Welcome," Wm. Huntington; "Selections
from family history," O. B. Huntington; "Speech,"
Presendia Kimball; "Speech," Zina D. Young; "Address,"

[Column 2]

in behalf of Dimick Huntington, deceased, Z. Jacobs.
These last three speeches were delivered while the four
original members, with Aunt Fanny, supported by Zeb-
nion, who spoke for her, were standing in a semicircle
on the stage, and was truly a very touching little scene.
Then came an original poem, written for the occasion
by Bro. William Clegg.
	[Poem.]
A gratifying aspect we here to-day behold,
A sight of more attractiveness than a store of shining
	gold;
A host of people, in whose veins there flows one kindred
	blood,
Who have come to greet each other with feelings pure
	and good;
The representatives are they of an illustrious line,
Whose noble deeds in days of old on history's pages
	shine.
The Huntingtons successors of a bold and manly sire,
Whose heart in old chivalrous times beat high with 
	martial fire;
A race of leading spirits through the ages that have
	stood,
Well known and foremost in the ranks among the brave
	and good,
The name was one that should endure, as plainly now
	appears,
For vastly it has multiplied as onward come the years?
What numbers must have answered to this greatly
	honored name
Since it first shone conspicuously upon the roll of
	fame.
Yes, since the bold "Siward" drew forth his glittering
	sword
To the present time, did hist'ry room for our name af-
	ford.
In the eleventh century, (more than eight hundred
	years
Have fled, since first on Albion's annals "Huntington"
	appears).
'Twas placed on "Siward" by the king for faithfulness
	maintained
In aiding Malcolm to the throne Macbeth through crime
	had gained;
To unseat this vile "Usurper" valiantly he fought,
Performed his duty well, as by his times and conscience
	taught,
And England's King, admiring much his actions in the
	field,
Appreciation plainly by exalting him revealed,
As a mark of "Royal Favor" the Monarch on him placed
A "Title," whence the wide spread name we proudly 
	own was traced;
In peace, in war, at home, abroad in struggles for the
	right,
In law, in education, dispensing truth and light
In the vanguard ever present, in science, or in art,
In all that seemed for human good the Huntingtons
	took part;
And when the land that gave them birth their liberties
	denied,
Some crossed the broad Atlantic and intolerance defied.
In sixteen hundred thirty-three a pilgrim crowd were
	found
Their native land forsaking, for the home of freedom
	bound,
But ere they reach the shore the "resistless shaft,, is
	thrown,
And the leader, Simon Huntington, by death is stricken
	down.
There while his wife and children in bitter anguish
	weep
He sinks into the ocean to take his last, long sleep.
His sons are our forefathers, a few here that claim can
	boast,
But through this great "Republic" they form a mighty
	host,
As teachers and examplars in morals widely known,
A band of men who never fear their sentiments to own.
The stream of time still rolling on brought on the Lat-
	ter-days,
When the fulness of the Gospel sheds forth its glorious
	rays;
The cause of universal good the Huntingtons espouse,
And strive the sleeping millions from slumber to arouse.
Yes, some all risking for the truth have braved a frown-
	ing world,
And in the face of bigotry the Gospel flag unfurled;
They find their noble lineage links with Abraham of
	old,
A pedigree more precions than earth's princes may un-
	fold,

[Column 3]

They, too, have learned how they can aid the myriads
	passed away,
And meet them all in glory in a fast approaching day.
To say that all were faultless, that none recreant had
	been,
Would claim for human nature what never yet was
	seen;
But here we see rejoicing a goodly number met,
Inclined to bless each other and all errors to forget.
Let those who love the Gospel its riches still proclaim,
And never dim the lustre of their' grand, historic name.
And those who may have stepp'd aside in a dark and
	trying day,
Reform at once, and travel on the bright celestial way.
Then when this mortal life is o'er and all in death shall
	rest,
May all now present meet again, in mansions of the
	blest.	WILLIAM CLEGG.
	This was followed by songs, recitations; next danc-
ing; how we did dance. The old ones led out, then
came the children; it seemed like old times, for every
eye beamed love, and every lip was wreathed in smiles.
	Much of our enjoyment was due our kind and noble
friend, Brother Boyer, who devoted himself to our enjoy-
ment the whole evening; "his kindness shall never be
forgot." Supper, and such a banquet! it was grand!
The table did not groan exactly, but we did. Over two
hundred partook of the bounteous feast.
	At midnight we separated, each heart filled with
gratitude and love for such a "never to be forgotten"
event.
	A member of the Huntington family.
		(ZINA Y. WILLIAMS.)


HONOR TO WIDOWS.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We had a very pleasant affair on Friday,
the 3rd inst., gotten up by the officers of the
Relief Society in their new hall for the widows,
widowers, missionaries wives, newcomers, and
a few old people, numbering over seventy. Pre-
cisely at one p.m. dinner was served. After
dinner, speeches were made by John C. Naile,
J. Beck, Counselors W. H. Winn and Andrew
R. Anderson and Bishop T. R. Cntler, inter-
spersed with songs and dancing until five p.m.,
and all who participated felt it had been a
time of rejoicing and one long to be remem-
bered.			R. STANDRING, President,
				M. A. STANDRING, Sec.


WOMEN PHYSICIANS IN INDIA.

	In response to the invitation of the Bombay
merchants' committee several months ago
formed to induce first-rate female physicians
from England to establish themselves in that
city, Dr. Edith Pechey sailed for Bombay a
fortnight ago. She is to be followed by an-
other medical woman, and both are to be at-
tached to the hospital and dispensary which
the merchants are about to found. Dr. Pechey
is the woman who in 1870 won, but was not al-
lowed to receive, the Hope Scholarship in the
University of Edinburgh. She and her com-
panion are to receive liberal salaries, and will,
besides, have abundant opportunities for pri-
vate practice. "It is thought probable," says
The London Standard, "that the foundation-
stone of the hospital may be laid by the Duke
of Connaught, who will thus well represent the
interest expressed by her Majesty in 1881, in
response to a pathetic appeal of the Maha-
Raja of Puna, who besought her to send medi-
cal women to the aid of the perishing sufferers
in a thousand zenanas, into which no male prac-
titioner can enter."


Fine bunches of grain, grasses, etc., tied with
bright ribbon, and mounted on a panel of
plush, or velvet, make handsome ornaments.
Autumn leaves, crimson maples, or firey
sumachs, make happy effect against an olive
panel, the ribbon being red shading to brown.


124	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I.; East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, JANUARY 15, 1884.


[Column 1]
	SUFFRAGE IN UTAH.

	The clause in Senator Edmunds bill, abolish-
ing woman suffrage in Utah, is calling forth de-
nunciation and severe criticism, and will bring
down upon his devoted head the indignation of
all good suffragists. Whether the fact is under-
stood and appreciated or not, woman suffrage
has been a success in Utah. Almost without
exception women have gone to the polls; and
they have voted as their own judgment dictated;
and the women of the Latter-day Saints have as
strong opinions of their own as the women of any
other community, misrepresentation to the con-
trary notwithstanding.
	Why the Senator from Vermont should trou-
ble himself about "Mormon" women at all is diffi
cult to understand 	It would s[-]em all-sufficient
for him to propose general, special adverse leg-
islation for Utah, without singling out women
to make specific legislation for. He must look
upon woman suffrage as a power, or why should
he wish to abolish i[-]; if it is a positive power
then in the hands of the intelligent and wise it
may be a power for good, and if so then the na-
tion needs it, for the neccessity of powerful
agencies for positive good seems at the prese[-]t
t[-]me to be imperatively essential.  There is
little doubt of suffrage in the hands of women
effecting a general reformation in the morals of
society.  Women are not likely to vote for men
who will license growing evils in the midst of 
the great cities of the world.
	The Ladies of the Woman Suffrage State Ex-
ecutive Committe of New York, who are as 
clever and as shrewd as any women in the 
world, have entered their protest, by "denounc-
ing Senator Edmund's proposition for the dis-
franchisement of the women of Utah as a gross
wrong to the non-polygamists and to polyga-
mists by compulsion, and is punishment with-
out trial of those who believe in polygamy.
New York senators and representatives are
called upon to resist the proposition."
	These women have indeed been fearless in
thus speaking for those who believe in this prin
ciple which has been so much legislated against-
and is so exceedingly unpopular.  It is quite re-
freshing to hear of any one saying those Mor-
mons who are being disfranc[-]ised should have a
trial.
	There are people in Utah who know how un-
just has been the ruling in regard to disfran-
chisement.  The very fact that the oath applied
to the citizen who registered included ("in the
marriage relation") shows plain[-]y that it was 
only intended for those who pract[-]sed the prin-
ciple of plural marriage, and allowing the most
vile and disreputable, wheter man or woman,
the privilege of the elective franchise, which
Mormon women have held as a sacred boon giv

[Column 2]
en them from God.  No matter how intelligen[-]
or clever a woman might be, a property owner
and tax-payer, a widow or a wife, if she had
ever at any time in her life lived with a man
who had at any time in his life been in the prac-
tice of plural marriage, she was by that exclud-
ed from the polls.  Is not this stretching the
thread of the law to its utmost tension?  Yet in
the very face of this fine spun theory—women
who were known to be Magdalenes, were sl-
lowed to go and register and vote.  The same
or similar, with men, and this is the example
of consistency practically carried out by the
Utah Commission.
	Alice Stone Blackwell has written at some
length upon the subject of disfranchising Mor-
men women in the "Woman's Journal," pub-
lished in B[-]ston.  After going over the ground
and telling what she heard in Utah last sum-
mer, and so forth, she very adroitly sums up the
whole matter by saying, The two questions
which suggest themselves in regard to this "fore
most good feature" of Senator Edmund's bill,
therefore, are—first, where is the justice of it?
and secondly, where is the use?
	This phrase, "foremost good feature," is from 
the Boston  Herald, a very popular paper and
ably edited, but opposed to woman suffrage.
	The Herald had said, "Senator Edmund's new 
anti-polygamy bill contains several good fea-
tures, foremost among which is the provision
abolishing woman suffrage in Utah.  This right
of the slaves and dupes of the Mormons has
proved a bulwark of defense for polygamy, and
it should be withdrawn."
	People stand off at a distance and call the
women who have helped to lay the foundations
of this Territory dupes and slaves.  It is easy
calling names, but is it fair?
	The Mormon women pioneers were most of 
them from the Eastern States.  They were
women of the intelligence and endurance, with
strong religious convictions like their foremoth-
ers and fathers, the Pilgrims.  Their religion
was dearer to them than their lives, for many
died, and those who lived, lived as it were by
faith.  Privation and hardship, poverty and toil
were their daily companions.  Yet through all,
the implicit confidence in  God that He would
be the God of Israel in the latter as in the for-
mer times supported them while passing through
the most severe ordeals.  It was given to the
Mormon people to open up this great country,
they had the nerve to endure it because they
were actually driven into these mountain fast-
nesses.  And it was also a fulfillment of proph-
ecy.
	But to return to the subject of the franchise.
Women in almost every part of the civilized
world are agitating this question, and it is but a
matter of time, for woman's star has risen and
the brilliancy of its light is peering into dark
places and illuminating the darkness of centu-
ries.  When women combine together with
great tenacity of purpose it will be strange in-
deed if they do not succeed in their undertak-
ings.  As the poet says,

"Where is the man who has the tact and skill
To stem the current of a woman's will?
For when she will she will, you may depend on't,
And when she won't she won't, and there's an end
on't."

Mormon women are no exception to this gener-
al rule.  They are as positive and strong willed
as other women.  Principle controls them.
They have e[-]poused a faith, a doctrine, and they
maintain it and sustain it with as much fervor
and devotion as do "Mormon" men.
	They are as jealous of their rights as any other
class of women on the face of the earth, but
they are also ready and willing to make sacri-
fices of self upon the alter of their faith.  Should

[Column 3]
they be despised for this?  Is it not honorable?
Have not martyrs and heroes in all ages of the
world done the same thing? Why are "Mor-
mons" despised and hated because they are zeal-
ous and ready to make sacrifices for their relig-
ion, while others who have taken the same
course are held up as patterns of zeal and fideli-
ty to a noble cause?
	There is a large class of women who are work-
ing for equal political rights, and they are fast
becoming a power in the land—and by and bye
that power will be an overwhelming force, and
the Congress of the United States will pay more
respect to them than it seems inclined to do 
now.
	We wish these advocates of woman suff[-]age
success.  The time has come when woman's 
moral forces are needed in the regulating of
laws for the suppression of vice and crime.  Are 
they not an interested party? It is not alone
because of unjust taxation and a desire to stand
equal with their husbands and brothers, but it
is for the better protection of the home, the
foundation of all good government that women
are asking and interceding for political rights.
It is a broad and  momentous question.
	Most sincerely do we appreciate the noble
stand taken by this women of New York, who 
sp[-]ke in defense of our right of franchise, and
we know that every woman who has voted in
Utah and felt the privilege a sacred boon will
join with us in thanking these intelligent ladies
for manifesting an interest in our cause.
	There are several ladies who have spoken pub-
licly on our question in  times past in the halls
of Congress and before Committess, who de-
serve to be faithfully remembered by the Mor-
mon people, and to have their names recorded
for their courage and fearlessness in airing an un-
popular cause, and one which they knew would
bring censure upon them.  Foremost among 
these noble and grand women are Mrs. Sara An-
drews Spencer, Mrs. Belva A. Lockwood, of
Washington, and Miss Matilda Hindman, of
Pennsylvania, and Mrs. Elizabeth Lisle Saxon,
of New Orleans.
	Perchance we have some friends still, and if
not we know in whome to trust, and in the fu-
ture as in the past, we will look to Him for pro-
tection who will not let a sparrow fall without
His notice.  Think of it, ye wise men and great,
and consider well the policy you would adopt
towards a people whose pronounced religious
principles has caused the worled to hate them.


EDITORIAL NOTES

	THE Utah Legislature convened in the City
Hall, Monday, January 14th.; nearly all the
members present. After some preliminary cer-
emonies the necessary officers were elected, Hon.
W. W. Cluff was chosen President of the Coun-
cil; C. W. Stayner, chief clerk; Hon. James
Sharp, Speaker of the House; and Junius F.
Wells, chief clerk. The oath of office was ad-
ministered by Secretary Thomas.
	ON Tuesday morning, Jan. 15, a joint session
of both Houses of the Legislature convene[-]
and His Excellency, Governor Murray, was in-
troduced by Hon. W. W. Cluff, and delivered
his message to the Legislative Assembly.


SIGNS OF THE LAST DAYS.

	Hark! ominous sounds come from afar! Dis-
asters by sea and by land.  Shipwrecks—cy-
clones—tornadoes—earthquakes—fires—explo-
sions—wars—bloodshed—murder most horrible—
suicides—secret combinations, accidents of all
kinds, nation against nation, husbands killing
their wives, mothers killing their children, bro-
ther against brother, sickness and death stalking
through the land. Surely the word of the Lord
is being fulfilled in the last days, and His judg-
ments are going forth upon the whole face of


the land. And the end of the wicked draweth
nigh. All eyes are turned towards Zion. The
President of the United States counsels against
the people of God. All sects are united in the
one object—annihilating the Mormons; but ac-
cording to the signs of the times they will have
plenty to do at home without interfering with
this people. And God grant that all the honest
may be gathered out from the nations before
the land is laid in waste And may He help
the saints to live more righteous, that they may
be worthy of His protecting care, and of the en-
joyment of those blessings that flow from His
bounteous hand. That they may be prepared
to meet Him when He comes to dwell on Mt.
Zion and enjoy His presence forever and for-
ever.							E. DOW.
	Salt Lake City, Jan. 13th, 1884.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
A WOMAN'S VIEWS.

	In reading the President's message we find
the following: "I am convinced, however, that
polygamy has become so strongly intrenched in
the Territory of Utah, that it is profitless to at-
tack it with any but the stoutest weapons which
Constitutional Legislature can make; I favor,
therefore, the repeal of the act upon which the
existing government depends, and the resump-
tion by the National Legislature of the entire
political control of the Territory, and the estab-
lishment of a commission." Compare the ad-
vice with the following: "Any Legislation
whereby Congress may supplement the guaran-
antees which the Constitution affords for the
equal enjoyment by all the citizens of the Uni-
ted States, of every right, privilege, and immu-
nity of citizenship will receive my unhesitating
approval." What a favor! What a distinction!
What! destroy our territorial government!
What for? Forsooth, take away the rights of a
loyal people, born free men and women, living
under the starry flag of liberty. Is it because
we take the right given us by the Constitution,
to regulate our own domestic affairs? By what
right does the President, or Congress, presume
to interfere with our local laws? Did not the
Congress of this nation grant us a territorial
government, with the power to make our local
laws according to the views and good of the
people? The organic act of the territory gives
us the right to make laws with a view to the
best interest of the people, (providing we do
not make any that will come in contact with
the general government) and we have the privi-
lege of making our marriage law to suit our
ideas; if we conclude to have no wife at all,
whose right is it to interfere? It is strictly a
point upon which local authority has jurisdic-
tion, we do not ask any other state or territory
to incorporate in their code of laws any that are
obnoxious to them; we do not interfere with
them as to what laws they shall make, neither
do we acknowledge their right to interfere with
ours. Even the President has no right when
he stoops to oppress and pervert the spirit and
intent of the Constitution, much less to incor-
porate a reign of Ecclesiastical Inquisition, and
pander to the clamor of religious bigots, and
rule and control the consciences of men, and say
what they shall incorporate as principle in their
religion. Why not say to the Catholics (when
they believe in celibacy) that they shall marry,
or to the Jew, that it is the will of other relig-
ionists that the seventh day is the Sabbath; this
government has no right to require us to aban-
don any principle of our religion, and make us
forego the dearest constitutional rights we pos-
sess. It is the climax of oppression, and we
must submit or have our territorial government
destroyed. I ask, who are the traitors? Traitors
to the people's interests; traitors to the trust re-
posed in them, and to the Constitution of Amer-
ican liberty. We as a people love and revere
the Constitution as an inspired document, but
we deplore a corrupt administration; we

[Column 2]
sincerely pity those that have lost sight of
the true principles of freedom. We as a peo-
ple claim the right to have a state government
(having the requisite qualifications) to manage
our own affairs, and be protected in our rights by
the present government; what do we find?
Those that should protect us going back to the
old colonial time, using force to compel a free
people to become serfs, to have no voice as to
who shall be their rulers, to establish a mon-
archy in this free land of America. Well may
we ask, 'Is this a land of liberty?" Taxation
without representation was the cause of the
Revolutionary war, and what are the custodi-
ans of the people's rights doing to-day? Are
the statesmen, legislators, and senators of this
great nation taking a course to perpetuate the
principle of freedom and union, and maintain a
union of state and people? Is not policy and
party interests sapping away the very found-
dations of this once great nation?
	Look at the secret combinations and secret
societies, and look at the struggle between cap-
ital and labor, and the lack of confidence in men
of position, and the distrust in those that should
defend the union and equal rights to all who set
foot upon American soil. How much of brain
or good judgment is shown in the management
of national affairs?	*	*	Once in a
while there is a man that dares to defend the
rights of the people, that has a spark of the
spirit that animated the bosoms of the revolu-
tionary fathers, and that want to protect the
fundamental principles of this great republic;
we say God bless such men. The seeds of sedi-
tion and civil war are being fostered like a
smouldering volcano, and unless the rulers and
statesmen rid themselves of their selfish-
ness, and let honor, truth and justice be their
motto, they will have enough to do nearer home
than Utah. The day has come spoken of by the
prophets of old: "howl ye, for the day of the
Lord is at hand; it shall come as a destruction
from the Almighty, and they shall be afraid;
pangs and sorrows shall take hold of them; they
shall be in pain as a woman that travaileth;
they shall be amazed one at another; their faces
shall be as flames: behold, the day of the Lord
cometh, cruel both with wrath and fierce anger,
to lay the land desolate, and He shall destroy
the sinners thereof out of it." The time is com-
ing when all they that persecute the saints of
God will be cut off from the face of the earth,
for the Lord has said by the mouth of His
prophets, in the last days He will send dire des-
tructions upon the ungodly, famine, pestilence,
plagues, and that they should slay one another
until the land should become desolate. Then
we as saints of God do not complain, for we
know in whom we put our trust; we know that
whosoever lives godly in Christ Jesus must suf-
fer persecution; then what effect does all this
clamor, all this extra legislature have upon this
people? Does it weaken their faith, does it
make them feel like forsaking their religion, or
the principles thereof? No. For we know that
God will protect His own, and that our enemies
can have no power over us so long as we do
right, and we ask no favors of our enemies, only
our just rights.
	I will say a few words in regard to our fran-
chise. It is passing strange that our wise sena-
tor, Mr. Cassidy, should have so much intelli-
gence and wisdom when his mother was a
woman, and women are such fools that "they
don't know how to vote." Are not women the
ones that implant the principles of manhood, of
intelligence, of honor, of honesty and refine-
ment in the bosom of man, even before he opens
his eyes on this world. Is it not the refining
influence of women that stamps the morals of a
a community, that is the foundation of good so-

[Column 3]
ciety? Take a community where men has the
predominant influence, (say in mining camps,
for instance.) and what is the condition of socie-
ty? It is of the lowest grade. On the other
hand, let women have the predominant influ-
ence and the reverse is the result. Read the
history of all our great men, and you will find
that it was the training they received at their
mother's knee and the modifying influence she
held over them prompted them to greatness
Then who shall dare to raise a voice to deprive
women of their rights? Are they not citizens;
are they not persons? If not, what are they?
Is not one citizen equal with another? As
women can hold property and is taxed for that
property? If a woman violates the laws of the
land she is held accountable to the law, she also
has the right to the protection of this govern-
ment the same as a man, but she must not vote
(she does not know how to). Why not? I claim
that women have the same rights as men, and
that they have brain enough to know who to
vote for, they, as a general rule, do not let policy
rule them to the exclusion of principle, in the
choice of men for office; they vote for men that
have proved themselves capable, that have the
people's interests at heart, and that will perpet-
uate the principles of freedom and equal rights
to all citizens. I hold that a citizen is a citizen,
whether man or woman, if not, why hold a
woman responsible to the law? Has not a
woman the same power to think, to act, and
study; are not her intellectual powers as great
if cultivated? Has she but the same power to
educate herself as man? Certainly she has. If
she has not had the opportunity to develop
those powers, it is because man has deprived
her of her natural rights; man has stood in the
way of his own interests, instead of raising
woman to her proper sphere, and making her
his equal, a counselor, a companion, and a help-
meet truly, and having an intelligent wife, he
has contented himself with having a household
drudge, a thing of convenience. But a dawn is
breaking for the women of this nation, and she
will show in the near future that she is not on-
ly capable of voting, but of holding office. Mr.
Cassidy will find that the day has passed for
men to fight against the advancement of women,
for they have one faculty more prominent, per-
haps, than men, which is pertinacity. We
claim as our right to say who shall make our
laws, who shall rule over us, and who we will
vote for. We do not intend to be enslaved with
out a protest. Where will you find a people that
have shown the indomitable will and perseve
ance, that have accomplished what this people
have, in the some length of time? Or a people
that have shown the amount of intelligence
and statesmanship ability, or the powers of en-
durance? Does it all show a community of ig-
norance? No; we are a people that are governed
by the power and intelligence of Almighty
God, and herein consists our power of unity, be-
ing inspired by the same spirit we are united in
all things; this is why we vote as a unit, this is
what makes the wicked tremble. It is not a
small handful of people that priests and people
are fighting against, but the Almighty Father,
the ruler of the heavens and the earth; that
King before whom every knee shall bend and
every tongue confess His power, His might, and
His right. Praying for the welfare of the King-
dom of God.				SARAH A. FULMER.
	Orangeville, Emery Co., Dec. 23, 1883.


WASHED TO DEATH.

	I am aware that in writing upon the subject of wash-
ing little children too much I will come in contact with
an old-time established custom, which is more univer-
sally indulged in to-day than ever before. Most of the
mothers think that if they do not wash their little bod-


[Column 1]

les over once or twice every day they have neglected
their little darlings almost beyond forgiveness. Mothers,
it is not so, but by the washing of them yon have done
them a life-long injury. Some may stop here, not wish-
ing to read any further. To such I would say, read the
article through and reflect upon and comprehend the
plain self-evident facts herein contained, and then if you
are not convinced that little children are washed too
much I will trouble you no more upon the subject.
	Man was not made nor constituted to be an amphibi-
ous animal, in fact his whole body naturally resists the
outward application of water, and most children decid-
edly object to it when old enough to say so; then the
daily washing of them usually ceases; but my object is
to speak for those who are not old enough to speak for
themselves, during which time the greatest injury is
done to them.
	The principal office of the pores of the skin is to pass
off constantly an insensible perspiration, and in a 
healthy person they will allow just enongh to escape to
keep the system in a healthy condition, without any ar-
tificial appliances. Nature will do its own work. The
application of water to the skin opens and relaxes these
pores, which will allow a superabundance of insensible
perspiration to escape, and anyone can readily under-
stand that this would weaken, not only the pores and
skin, but the whole body, if often repeated.
	Most children when born, and for a few days after-
wards, have healthy pores, with a lively glow on the
skin and a firmness to their flesh, which would remain
and the glow gradually wear off if nature were allowed
to take its own course, but they all soon disappear after
being subjected to the daily water baths, and in the
place of the glow on the skin it assumes a sickly, pale
white, and the firm flesh becomes soft and flabby, al-
though the child may be fleshy, and there is but little
muscle in the arms, and when handled the flesh almost
seems to leave the bone. In fact healthy pores need
washing no more than healthy bowels need physic, and
the former is weakening and injurious to the human
system as well as the latter, and who would think of
giving physic to their children daily as they give them
their baths.
 	Healthy men have been brought to extreme weakness
by taking a daily bath, but have regained their usual
strength and vigor after omitting the baths, and boys
have received lasting injuries by going in swimming too
often or by staying in the water too long. The judici-
ous farmer is careful not to irrigate his grain too young
or too much, knowing that if he does so it will turn
pale and lessen his crop at the time of harvest. How
much more ought mothers and nurses to be careful of
the tender plants under their charge, and not wash
them too much and thereby weaken them and lessen
their harvest of life.
	Man and the horse are similarly constituted. Who
ever saw a colt take a voluntary bath, or even the
young of any animal to do so. All nature proclaims
against it.
	Bathing is good in consumption, liver complaint and
other diseases when the pores need opening. Emetics
are also beneficial in some sicknesses, but who would
give a daily emetic to their children? Medicine that is
good in sickness is injurious in health. Water is a
powerful extractor of the electricity aud other health
promoting elements of the human system, as may be
witnessed by placing the hand in warm water for a 
short time. It soon becomes white, wrinkled and weak-
ened.
	Some may ask, "How often should I wash my body?"
There are some parts that need spunging off daily, but
some physicians decidedly object to their little children
being bathed all over in water oftener than once in a
week or two. And then, mothers, why not take the
word of the Lord for it, and use "strong drinks for the
washing of the body." But do not wash daily with
water and then with liquor, for the liquor cannot restore
that which the water has taken away.
	I do not expect to write in this short article an hun-
dredth part of what would be necessary to fully venti-
late a subject so new and in direct contact with an al-
most universal practice, but only sufficient to get the
people to reflect for themselves on the many things con-
nected with this subject too numerous to mention, for
when I reflect upon it I feel, as it were, an inspiration
upon me to call to the mothers to stop and consider for
themselves, and realize what they are doing to the lit-
tle cherubs God has given-them, and forbear before it is
too late.
	I do not wish to be understood by adopting the cap-
tion of this piece that I think the children are washed
to death at the time of giving them their baths, but by

[Column 2]

their pores being opened and relaxed so often, thereby
giving the vitality of life an avenue of escape, reducing
the muscular and nervous powers, debilitating the
whole system, making it more liable to catch cold, re-
quiring a closer confinement from the fresh air, thereby
depriving it of the endurance necessary for the tender
plant to pass safely through teething, measels, whoop-
ing cough and many other complaints that children are
heir to, and they succumb, and death takes them away,
for the doctors nor their medicine cannot restore the vi-
tality which has been slowly but surely washed out of
them, and the parents and relatives are left to mourn
their loss, and wonder why it was so? The answer
could be constantly given, "You have innocently
washed your child to death."	S. F. ATWOOD.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿OUR TRAVELS BEYOND THE
			MISSISSIPPI.
	BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
     On the 7th a message came from President
Young, who was twelve miles ahead, requesting
my father and the rest to come on. That day
Horace succeeded in getting a wagon for us
and also a gentle yoke of oxen. Previously we
had had no place in particular. I had traveled
mostly with my mother, and our lodging had
been, like that of hundreds of others, on the
ground. But here was a new lesson for
Horace, who from a school boy in Kirtland
had done little else but printing and school
teaching—yoking up and driving oxen he had
never before undertaken. On the 9th, after
leaving this place, he wrote, “Started this
morning about eight o’clock—took my first les-
son in the science of oxology.” On taking the
ox whip to drive, the first thing he did was to
go on the wrong side, and then had to endure
the roars of laughter from several of ths boys
who were standing ready to witness his first
effort, but some of them were quite as green
as himself in the practice of ox driving. But
after seeing his chagrin one of them took the
whip and drove a little ways to give him an
idea how it was done, and he soon became as
handy in yoking, unyoking and driving ox-
teams as any of the boys, and even some of
our sisters were schooled in the  same science
before we got to our journey’s end, as numbers
of our brethren who came out from Nauvoo as
teamsters, returned after a little; some of them
taking their teams with them, after we had ob-
tained some from other quarters.  We had
doors, generally, cut on the left side of the
wagon covers. Boxes and bags of grain, etc.,
were packed in the rear part of our wagon,
upon which our bed was made. We had our
provision chest in front, which served as a ta-
ble, and between was just room for my chair—
this being my only piece of furniture—the
most of our household chattels having been
left in our house in Nauvoo. I could now knit
and read as we traveled, and Horace could
read or play his flute as he liked, and none, I
think, but those who had a like experience can
form the slightest idea of the appreciation and
happiness it gave us, to have a little wagon all
to ourselves, which, under the circumstances,
was next thing to paradise.
     “On taking the team to drive,” Horace says,
I went into Brother Kimball’s company—had
not gone far before it commenced to rain,
which continued through the day and night—
traveled seven miles and encamped about six
p.m. on the open prairie, in one of the most
disagreeably muddy places I remember ever to
have seen—drove our horses and cattle about
a mile to the nearest wood, which consisted,
principally, of elm trees, and afforded them an
excellent opportunity of browsing. Some of
father’s teams got stuck in the mud, and had
to stop a mile or two back, and none reached
us except Joseph Kingsbury with the buggy,
the one horse wagon, and Sarah Ann’s wagon.
Bro. Pond broke his harness in attempting to
extricate himself from a mud hole. Bro. Lo-
renzo Young and others of our company were
unable to come up, as also Parley P. Pratt and
his company.”
     The muddy camping place, mentioned by
Horace, was one not easily to be forgotten.
The dismal places were the ones that seemed
to impress themselves the most indelibly upon
my memory, but this one really had its pleas-
ant side, for I remember how grateful I felt
there to be under a tight wagon cover, where
we were comfortable and secure from the cold
and beating rain, which; falling upon the cov-
er, served as a kind of lullaby to soothe us to
sleep. And in the morning my cousin Netty,
the head cook, brought us some warm eatables,
requesting me to stay in the wagon, as she
would rather bring our breakfast to us than
have me bothering around in the mnd, to which
arrangement we very cheerfully submitted.
     “Friday, 10th,” wrote Horace, “This morn-
ing found the rain had not ceased falling, bnt
on the contrary, pouring down with redoubled
vigor.  Getting our cattle from the woods, we
started about noon, doubling our teams, when
it cleared off—leaving Joseph C. Kingsbury
behind, as also three of Bro. Kimball’s teams
in the care of Hans C. Hanson—traveled three
miles and a half and encamped at three p. m.
on the East Fork of Locust Creek, near where
Brigham had previously encamped—one of the
most beautiful locations for an encampment
my eyes had ever beheld, in fact it seemed as
if expressly designed for our use, and in con-
trast with the place where we had last stopped,
a perfect paradise.”
     “Saturday, 11th. Bro. Kimball’s horses, ox
teams and men, including myself, went back
after the wagons left behind. Wm. Kimball
put four of his horses on Sarah Ann’s wagon,
and one ox team was taken back a mile fur-
ther to pull one of father’s teams out of a mud
hole, and the folks all got to the camp about
half past three o’clock—the same time we did
with the ox teams. When we arrived found
Brigham here with two other brethren—they
were in council. Bro. B’s camp is two miles
from here.	*	*	To-day made a coal
pit that we might be able to do some black-
smithing.”
     “Sunday, 12th.	*	*	A meeting
was called at 11 a.m.,present, B. Young. H. C.
Kimball, P. P. Pratt, O. Pratt, A. Lyman, G.
A. Smith, J. Taylor, Bishops Whitney and
Miller, and several others. Bro Young spoke;
gave some good instruction, and concluded
with a plan for our future movements--that
was to send fifty men ahead to the source of
Grand River, and then to make some improve-
ments--fence in about two miles square—build
some huts, plant some grain and  garden seeds,
then save their garden seeds, which would not
otherwise keep any length of time—after that
for the main body to follow them—from here
we are to take a north-west course till we ar-
rive at the head of Grand River--from there
proceed to Council Bluffs, on the Missouri
River, then over the mountains, leaving be- 
hind at our new settlements those that
have not the means to prosecute the journey,
thereby furnishing a sojourning place for those
who may hereafter come on from the States.
Bro. Brigham and the brethren with him went
back to their camp after having taken dinner.
In the afternoon Bro. Kimball called a meet-
ing; gave some good advice to the brethren—
partook of the sacrament and dismissed with
prayer.	*	*	*	The weather has
continued fine since Friday last. To-day a
number of our teams, also two of Bro. Kim-
ball’s, went to bring np the remainder of our
company, viz: Bro. Lorenzo Young, Lyman
Whitney, and a wagon that father had left be-
hind. We are now in Putman Co., Missouri.”
   “Tuesday, 14th. Struck our tents and pro-
ceeded to Bro. Brigham’s camp,	*	*	where


[Column 1]

we arrived late in the day.	*	*	Had
to double our teams some distance across the
bottom, as also the hill on which we encamped.
*	*	Soon after arriving went to Brother
Willard Richards' tent, which is called the
post office of the camp of Israel, where Charles
Decker had just arrived from Nauvoo, bearer
of a number of messages and letters." That
evening the band also came up, and they
played for President Young and father before
retiring. All remained at this place till Thurs-
day except Bishop Miller and company, they
went ahead next morning. Horace wrote:—
"This afternoon the pioneers of our company,
consisting of about twenty men, with others
from Bro. Brigham's camp, started for the head
of Grand River.	*	*	Bro. Kimball
gave them a good deal of advise, such as never
to involve themselves in any quarrels, strifes or
contentions with the inhabitants, but on the
contrary, to court their favor by every possible
means in their power. Bro's Kimball and
Markham accompanied them a short distance
on their route, and gave them other good coun-
sel.	*	*	Hans Hanson took his cow
and went with them."
	As I learned, through the mail, that Wm.
Clayton was the father of a child by his wife,
Diantha Farr, who was left with her parents in
Nauvoo. I bore the tidings to Wm., whose de-
light knew no bounds, and that evening Hor-
ace, myself and a number were invited over to
their camp, Wm. being one of the band, whose
encampment was only a short distance from
ours, and which event Horace mentions thus:
"In the evening there was a grand christening
held at Bro. Clayton's camp, in celebration of
the birth of his child in Nauvoo."	*	*
	Thursday 16th. Left our encampment at
half past 9 a.m., proceeded about six miles and
encamped at 2 p.m. on the prairie near where
Bro. John Taylor and George A. Smith had
encamped the night previously. To-day eight
rattlesnakes were killed by our company, and
two of the oxen in the same were bitten. One
of Wm. Kimball's horses lips was swelled con-
siderably, supposed to be occasioned by the bite
of a rattlesnake. To-day is the first time we
have seen any of these reptiles on our journey."
I remember that day, and of seeing our men
killing snakes in the grass, where our tents
were afterwards pitched, and it was enough to
give one nervous spasms to see them, and then
to think of sleeping in the neighborhood of
such dangerous enemies.
	Horace continues:—"As we progress on our
route game grows quite plenty, more especially
deer and turkeys, of which there are several
almost daily brought into our camp; vegetation,
also, is now commencing to spring up around
us, which we consider quite a blessing, as we
have had no corn for our cattle for two or three
days. Brother Brigham and the band are en-
camped within half a mile of our place—on ar-
riving here had to drive our cattle a mile or
two to give them a good chance to feed."
On the morning of the 17th our company
proceeded about eight miles and encamped in
a grove of hickory on a stream called Medicine
Greek, named by the Indians, no doubt. Prest.
Young, Bp. Whitney and others, with the
band, had encamped three quarters of a mile
ahead, and father, learning this, determined to
go on.
	Horace says:—"We started about five p.m.,
and after descending the hill and crossing the
creek we were detained by the fire on the
prairie about three quarters of an hour, and a
number of us were obliged to stand by with
sticks to whip out the fire in order to make
onrselves a road" or passage through it; we then
went on without interruption to the place where
the rest of our company were encamped. Here,
also, we overtook Bp Miller's company. Our
two principal hunters, Bro's Higher and Smith,
went out before starting this morning, and cut

[Column 2]

down two bee trees, bringing into the commis-
sary three pails full of first rate honey—they
also killed two deers and turkeys during the
day, which was distributed to the company."
Saturday, 18th. Father started his wagon
and we went two miles and camped, when he
returned to a council, Horace says, which "con-
sisted of the principal authorities of the Church,
together with the captains of tens, fifties, hun-
dreds, etc. Their decision was in accordance
with the former suggestions of Prest. B. Young.
Council being over father, with his family
started aud came up with us, Bro. Brigham re-
maining behind, as also Bp. Miller and the
band. Bro. Taylor is encamped within a short
distance of us—took a short fishing excursion
down the creek this evening—caught three fish
but not very large ones; some few cat fish. This
afternoon they sent into the country for corn."
	"Sunday, 19th. Fine weather this morning,
Porter and Edwin Cutler came from Nauvoo
with the mail to-day; left there last Thursday.
Some families have started and are starting
from there all the time. This afternoon, at
four oclock, a meeting was called between Bro.
Taylor's and our camp. Bro's Taylor and Kim-
ball spoke at some length, giving a great deal
of good instruction, cheering up the hearts of
all. Bro. Kimball told us it would be neces-
sary to allow only one half pound of bread
stuff per day to each individual for 500 days in
going 1,500 miles over the mountains. Had a
letter from our pioneers, stating that they had
a job to do of building a jail and storehouse,
worth $250, on the East Fork of Grand River,
thirty miles from here. Yesterday wolves were
seen around the camp."
	"Monday, 20th. Beautiful day, the birds
begin to sing, grass to grow, and everything as-
sumes a pleasant aspect. Bro. Pack came in
with one of the teams sent out after corn.	*
They had to pay 20 cts. per bushel. Brother
Spencer, who has been a long way back, just
came up with us this afternoon. In' the last
mail Bro. Kimball received a number of the
Hancock Eagle. He and father went back to-
day to attend the general council."
	"Tuesday, 21st. Bro. Hosea Cushing and
Wm. King, who had been adopted into father's
family, came in, bringing twenty-two bushels
of corn. My brother Wm. not returning with
them prevented father from starting that day.
Bro. Brigham and Bp. Miller and companies
passed us that morning. An Indian was seen
for the first time passing through our camp—
there was said to be an Indian encampment
somewhere in that vicinity—were out hunting.
Bro. Pond and Durfee, who came that far with
their teams to assist Bp. Whitney, were releas-
ed that day with their teams to return to Nau-
voo to their families. That evening it com-
menced raining, and continued most of the
night, accompanied by thunder and lightning.
Father and Bp. Whitney arranged their load-
ing while there—taking out some things to dis-
pose of for provisions to the inhabitants. Horace
wrote four letters for my father to send back
by Porter—namely: to two of his wives, Sarah
Noon and Amanda Gheen, Bro. Winchester,
Bro's O. Hyde and W. Woodruff."
	"Thursday, 23rd," Horace wrote, "This after-
noon Wm. came back, having explored most
of the country as far as Grand River—saw our
pioneers there, who, he says, find plenty of work
to do—cattle are rather scarce there, an Ore-
gon company having traversed the region
round and engaged above 500 yoke of cattle
previous to his arrival. Bro's Pond, Porter,
Vm. Cutler and Father Durfee started back
to-day, taking two buggies with. them. Porter
took my watch with him to get fixed. About
three o'clock p.m. we started and went four
miles, and encamped about dusk on the edge
of a ravine in the open prairie, where there
was beautifnl feed for our oxen and horses, the
grass being of very high and thick growth,"


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 127


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

OGDEN, WEBER CO.

	Minutes of the 18th Quarterly Conference
of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Weber Co., held in
the Ogden Tabernacle, Saturday, December
8th, 1883, President Sarah Herrick presiding.
After the usual opening exercises and reading
of minutes Prest. Herrick addressed the meet-
ing. She was truly thankful that we were
privileged to meet this morniug under so favor-
able circumstances, and that we were favored
with the presence of Sister Zina Young and
several of the brethren. Felt a deep interest
for her young sisters, and desired to do all in
her power to assist them to become wiser and
better; could see they were improving; hoped
they would continue to attend their meetings,
and ever make good use of the time allotted
them.
	Verbal reports were given by Presidents E.
N. Hill of the 1st Ward Association; R:
Monch, 4th Ward; E. S. Richards, 2nd Ward;
M. M. Halls, Huntsville. Each felt encou-
aged, by the advancement the members were
making, to continue their labors. Notwith-
standing their efforts to induce all the young
ladies to attend the meetings, some appeared
careless and indifferent, such they intended to
visit, and try by every means in their power to
awaken. They desired to live humble and
prayerful, ever seeking the Spirit of the Lord
to guide them, that their labors might result in
much good.
	Sister Zina D. Young had listened with in-
terest and pleasure to the minutes and reports.
Believed a good work was being done by the
associations of this county, which she trusted
would continue. Wished to see the youth of
Zion excel in everything that was good; and in
order to do this they must have pure hearts,
must be obedient to those placed to lead them,
seek to learn and practice that which is right,
and eschew all evil. After having Sister Jos-
ephine West read from a discourse of Prest.
Taylor's what he had said in regard to round
dancing, wished all who felt to carry out this
counsel to raise their hands. Many, if not all
hands were raised. This she said gave her
pleasure, for she was satisfied they would re-
ceive a blessing by so doing. Prest. Young
did not approve of this amusement and desired
that the people would not engage in it. Urged
her young sisters to attend their meetings reg-
ularly, to observe the word of wisdom, be kind
and obedient to their parents, and seek to pre-
pare themselves to fill honorably the noblest
position to which they can aspire, that of wife
and mother. Spoke of the Primary Associa-
tion, said it was our duty to encourage the
children to do right and attend their meetings.
Her prayer was that the Lord would bless and
prepare us to enter His presence with a fulness
of glory.
	Elder Joseph E. West was indeed pleased to
see the young ladies so ready to observe the
admonition of Prest. Taylor in regard to our
amusements. The Central Board of the Young
Men's Associations of this County were making
arrangements to give a series of parties in Og-
den, and a committee had been appointed to
visit the Y. L. Association to ascertain if they
would join them. They intended to conduct
these parties strictly in accordance with the
wishes of our leaders. They would hold a
meeting to-morrow night in the vestry, and
Prest. Anderson would like the officers of the
Y. L. A. to meet with them. Without a union
of effort and action we could not accomphish
what we desired. We must work in harmony,
and use our influence in the right direction.
 Meeting adjourned till 2 p.m.
 Afternoon session. Congregation sang, "Re-
deemer of Israel." Prayer was offered by
Bishop Robert Mc.Quarrie. Presidents M. E.


[Column 1]
Russell, of Riverdale; Annie Madsen, of Mar-
riotts; Ellen Waldron, North Ogden; and Mary
A. Crane, of Lynne, then reported the condi-
tion of the Association over which they presi-
ded. The reports were very similar to those
given in the forenoon. All thought the coun-
sel in regard to our amusements was good;
would try to observe it and help others to do
so. The Riverdale young ladies had already
given up round dancing, as it had been known
to them, by one of their number speaking in
tongues, that it was displeasing in the sight of
God.
	Prest. L. W. Shurttiff was gratified to see
the interest manifested by those called to pre-
side over the associations of this county. He
felt to say, God bless them and help them to do
the good their hearts desire. Could assure his
young sisters that if they would follow the ad-
vice of those placed to guide them, all would
be well. Sincerely hoped they would give
heed to Prest. Taylor's instructions, which we
had heard read to-day. Spoke at considerable
length on the many duties devolving upon us
as saints; also gave many words of praise and
encouragement. Prayed the blessings of the
Lord to rest upon all who were striving to
work righteousness.
	The meeting was also addressed by Bishop
R. Mc.Quarrie, Elders Wm. R. Stowell, L. J.
Herrick, Counselors Emily S. Richards and
Josephine R. West. Each heartily endorsed
all that had been said, and felt to do all in
their power to assist in carrying out the in-
structions of Prest. Taylor.
	Counselor E. S. Richards thought it would
be wisdom to discard round dancing altogether,
and took a vote to learn how many were of the
same mind. A majority were in favor of
abandoning it.
	Prest Herrick felt that the excellent teach-
ings we had received to-day would prove a
great blessing to us, for she was satisfied that
we would not only remember, but practice
them. Would endeavor to have her young la-
dies comply with the wishes of those in author-
ity, and would try by her example and advice
to encourage them to love the truth, and do
only that which is right. Warmly thanked all
who had contributed to make the meeting so
pleasant and interesting, and adjourned the
conference for three months.
				R. CANFIELD, Secretary.

ST. JOSEPH STAKE, ARIZONA.

	The First Quarterly Conference of the St.
Joseph Stake of Arizona, convened in the
bowery at Pima, Sept, 2nd., Prest. Layton and
Counselor D. P. Kimball were present, also the
Bishops of the various wards. We were
pleased to note some five or six of the Mormon
Battalion present, also the Patriarchs of the
St. Joseph Stake, Wm. Mc.Bride and Phile-
mon Merrill. Reports were read from four
different organizations of the R. S., which were
encouraging. S. David, Pima, Curtis and
Graham wards were in a progressive condition;
there is also an organization of R. S. at
Thatcher, which is prospering. The society at
Pima had sent twenty-five dollars to a poor
widow in Arkansas, to assist her to emigrate,
and she arrived here just in time to see and
hear Apostles Young and Grant, whose visit
here was highly appreciated by the saints. The
cry of the watchmen on the towers of Zion has
saluted our ears in this remote land, and the
majority of the people are trying to reform
	The young men that were called to labor
among the House of Jacob are responding and
beginning to qualify themselves to fill a great
and important mission.
	The Second Quarterly Conference of the R.
S. and Y. L., together with the Primary As-
sociation of the St. Joseph Stake of Arizona,
convened in the Hall of St. David, Nov. 30th,
1883. Friday morning at 10 o'clock meeting

[Column 2]
called to order by Prest. W. East. After the
usual exercises there was much good instruc-
tion and powerful testimonies given by the pre-
siding board, exhorting the sisters to magnify
their calling and seek to establish home indus-
try, and by all that is sacred and true not to
neglect the training of the youth of Israel.
	We mothers must teach them faith while they
are yet young, that this principle may be cul-
tivated and grow into a mighty power in the
earth. The young people and Primary Asso-
ciations have been organized for the special
training of those noble spirits that have been
held in reserve to come forth to receive this
education preparatory to the Kingdom and
coming of our Lord and Savior, and God will
hold us responsible.
	Prest. Layton expressed himself well pleased
with the report and spirit of the sisters' confer-
ence, and wished us to continue our meeting
Saturday morning, as the Apostles had not ar-
rived, which we did, and heard encouraging re-
marks from Patriarch Merrill. The young
ladies were ably represented by Counselor
Rhoda Foster. The young ladies of this Stake
certainly deserve credit for good behavior and
willingness to perform their duty.
							W. EAST.
	P. S. I am acting as School Trustee in
this district; our secretary will send you a full
report, with wages of officers and Sec.	W. E.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.

	DIED, at Alpine, Utah Co., Dec. 30th, 1883, Theodocia,
beloved wife of Wm. Brown. Deceased was born at Al-
pine, May 5th, 1852. Three weeks previous to her death
she gave birth to a babe that lived only one week. She
had been a great sufferer for many months, and her
death was a happy release from this mortal tabernacle.
She died in full faith of the Gospel: she was for many
years a faithful member of the Relief Society, and never
failed to bear a faithful testimony of the Gospel and of
the power of God.
	We feel to sympathize deeply with the relatives and
friends, of which she has many. She leaves a husband
and three children to mourn her loss.


ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1863.
Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.

IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,

HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.
________________________________
Special to the Ladies.
___
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes. 
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.
_________________________________________
HENRY DINWOODEY.
____
FURNITURE,
WALL PAPER,
CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUINS
AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY.
____________________________________________
FAuerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMINE.
____________________________________________
For Sale at this Office.
_______
BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.
_______
PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,	- 25c. per copy.
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book, 40c.	"
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,		- $1.00	"
	"	vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco, 1.25	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco,  1.50	"
__________________________________________
DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
Office and residence, 11th Ward, No. 31, Seventh
East Street.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.
_____________________________________________
A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOLLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,		Brown Yarns,		Cotton Batting,
Flannels,		White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.
______________________________________________
MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE IN GODEE PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the 
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 12.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 1, 1884	NO. 17.


[Column 1]

TO SISTER ELIZA.

Sister Eliza, how shall I convey
The wishes that surround your natal day?
Or voice the love, the vast appreciation
That prompted this, your birthday celebration?
My inability had disinclined me
To undertake the present task assign'd me,
Knowing that abler ones, and older, too,
Could best bestow a tribute worthy you;
Yet if I fail to fitly grace my theme,
I trust you'll still accept my warm esteem.

Thousands of Saints to-day would fain express
Their recognition of your usefulness;
Their voices, as "the sound of many waters,"
Would own you first of Zion's veteran daughters;
Yea, one and all to you this place accord,
Assigned you by the servants of the Lord,
Nor could our brethren have ordained a wiser,
Or naturally, more able organizer.
You've led your sisters on in righteousness,
And systematically soothed distress;
Have formed societies whose purpose pure
Has helped the helpless and relieved the poor;
Nor have you toiled and traveled thus for gain,
Nor have your faithful labors been in vain.
In Zion's stakes, through all their breadth and length,
Lo! Zion's daughters have increased in strength,
Till with the Priesthood of "High Heaven" they stand
Shoulder to shoulder like a marshalled band,
Willing and waiting, disciplined and true,
Ready indeed the will of God to do.
Our little ones have also had a share
Of your unceasing and iustructive care;
Many the blossoms that we trust will bring
A glorious and abundant harvesting.
Even under God this state of things is due,
In a great measure, to your efforts true;
And yet to-day, in spite of cares so weighty,
Body and mind, you're sound and staunch at eighty.
You number fourscore years, without a doubt,
Pardon the pride that makes me tell it out;
I know you're not ashamed of being old,
Or else your age you never would have told.
Why is it some who've sense commit the blunder
Of underating "Eather Time," I wonder?
Why should we wish his traces could be hidden,
Why treat him coldly, like a guest unbidden?
'Tis just as well for folks to condescend
To take Time's hand and own him as a friend.
Doubtices he's partial to a special few,
And thus it is he's gently dealt with you;
Long may he favor you as heretofore,
At least another twenty years or more,
Unless of life you weary, may you see
Enough of time to make a century.

Fourscore to-day! Oh! what you must have seen;
A wonderful experience yours has been;
Honor'd indeed to be the mate, the wife,
Of one whose sacred mission cost his life;
Consort of Joseph, martyr, saint and seer,
Whose memory unto all of us is dear;
How much more so to those we cannot tell
Whose privilege it was to know him well;
Who were by him beloved, and to him sealed
By the grand principle from heaven revealed.
Rare courage they possessed, (the faithful few)
Who entered into covenants so new,
Who, while their aim as falling snow was pure,
Had ev'ry kind of slander to endure.
To wrestle, not alone with vain tradition,
But with vindictive, murderous opposition,
Through deepest waters truly have you past,
Through persecution's scathing, fiery blast,
Endured the days when our loved leader fell
To glut men's malice and the spleen of hell,
Yet firm your faith, e'en while yonr heart strings bled,
For Christ yon knew was still "our living head."

Soon as for you the dearest ties were riven
Lo! from their rightful homes the Saints were driven,
To seek upon the pathless prairies wide

[Column 2]

The common rights their country had denied;
Their only shelter and their only home,
Were canvas walls; or heaven's vaulted dome.
Deprived of all the luxuries left behind
They murmured not, but all their strength combined
To reach the distant, designated spot,
Where mobs no more against their peace would plot.
Mighty aud strong God raised them up a man
Of dauntless courage to direct and plan,
As Moses led the Hebrews through the sea
So Brigham Young (a man of destiny)
Was called to guide God's people day by day
And lead them in "a solitary way."
The sense of freedom so supremely sweet
Invigorated weary hearts and feet.
And thus they reached the valleys of the West,
And 'mid the "everlasting hills" found rest;
Yet whilst they journey'd on the lonesome plains
The camp of Isr'el sang your cheering strains,
Such glowing words that bade them courage take
To bear their burdens for the Gospel's sake.
And so for years your glorious gift of song
Has helped the weary and the faint along.

One incident 'mong recollections rife
I fain wonld mention of my early life;
Grant me forbearance while I thus recall
One epoch more eventful than them all.
Auspicious time, when truth's eternal light
Flooded my soul with its effulgence bright.
Truth found me seeking it when but a child,
Happy was I to find it undefiled;
But those I fondly hoped would share my joy
Daily endeavored to my faith destroy.
So ridiculed by all and frowned upon,
These words of Sister Snow's oft cheered me on,
"My heart is fixed I know in whom I trust."
Immortal lines, they cannot, will not rust.
Full oft I ponder'd them within my heart,
Till of my daily thoughts they formed a part,
And ever as I conned them o'er and o'er,
So ev'ry time my faith was strengthen'd more,
Nor can I help but wish their anthor blest,
Whose high resolves my youthful mind impressed,
Who "touched my heart' and wakened the desire
That God would thus my soul inspire.

How shall we e'er forget that hymn of praise
Familiar to the Saints of Latter-days,
Even "O my Father?" The exalting strain
Uplifts the spirit into heaven again,
And makes us recollect our royal birth,
However humble is our lot on earth.
Even as incense doth the song ascend
When Zion's singers' sweetest voices blend,
And as we list to the triumphant swell
We feel that "Zion prospers, all is well."

But time would fail me, nor do I desire,
To count the fruits of Zion's earliest lyre,
Enough that you have used the talent given.
And rendered back the interest due to heaven.
Ah! who shall prostitute a gift divine
To laud themselves alone in every line?
If God to one or all a gift imparts
Give Him the praise with undivided hearts;
Give Him the glory, as 'tis right we should,
By helping up the struggling multitude.
And this indeed excites our admiration
That Sister Snow has used the concentration
Of mind and body, heart and soul and brain
To build up Zion and to right maintain.
Devotion to the truth, yea, consecration,
Aloof from love of public estimation,
Has won for her a more enduring crown
Than present praise or cheaply bought renown.
	S. L. City, Jan. 21st., 1884.


[Column 1]
A BIRTHDAY ADDRESS.

	Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith, the anniversary
of your 80th birthday is assumed to be suffic-
iently momentous to be worthy a social reun-

[Column 2]
ion of friends, many of whom have been long
tried, and with you have borne the heat and
burden of opposition to the great innovation of
the latter-days.
	We are well aware that mnch demonstration
is not congenial to your quiet, practical mode
of life. You prefer to be known by your
deeds, rather than by the eulogies of admiring
friends. But for an hour of social pleasure of
friend with friend, a more auspicious time than
your birthday we thought could not well be se-
lected. This evening we combine two pleas-
ures in one—the meeting of numerous friends
and the pleasure of pausing in this busy life of
ours to make special note of the natal day of
Zion's Poet—Laureate.
	Modesty is a gem becoming to the bosom of
all true women, and we know none prize it
more highly than yourself, yet we presume to-
night, and we shall hope not unpardonably, to
thus bring you to the front and review in your
presence some of your good works.
	Your life is contemporary with two of the
greatest events in the annals of modern his-
tory, namely, the growth of the American Re
public and the time when God has set His hand
to prune His vineyard for the last time. With
both you have identified yourself, and adorned
many events with poetic garb that will immor-
talize and hand them down to posterity. We
should not forget in our short panorama of
your life to-night the high praise which is due
your parents, for success in after life depends
much, very much, upon starting out aright.
Under their wise teaching and counsel an in-
tellectual soil was prepared, which was fertile
when the seed of truth was sown. And the
mystic skill of economy taught you by your
mother has stood you in good part, both in
your personal comfort and as a public teacher
of the science of life. Your high appreciation
of the Pearl of Great Price when you found
it was shown by the complete renunciation of
all worldly honors and emoluments, and even
the comforts of life, and in your counting every
sacrifice as without weight in the balance with
truth. The dauntless and undying heroism of
woman's love was exemplified in the choice of
your husband. The law of God, which gave
you perfect right to recognized wifehood, had
been long and deeply buried beneath the dark-
ness of many ages. But your souls were wed,
yours and Joseph's the Prophet, with the appro-
bation of the great Father of Light and sealed
by the authority and power of the holy Priest-
hood, which gave yon strength to live and love
in silence, regarding his presence and teachings
as a boon above all others. And when the
saddest of sad days came, when your husband
became a martyr for truth's sake, upon the al-
tar of a broken heart you burned the incense
of eternal vows, and with tear-stained eyes up-
lifted to heaven, cried, "To labor in thy vine-
yard, O Father, doing the work that Joseph
has given me, I consecrate my future life."
Thus we interpret your long and useful career
amoug the Saints of God. Yonr life's trials—
the death of your husband did not quench your
poetic fire, but through it you poured forth
your sorrow in accents which comforted your
own heart and the hearts of the Saints. Your
deep suffering made you a sympathizing friend
and wise counselor to many in the dark hour
of trial. As priestess in the House of God
many have received rich blessings under your
hands, and with lovlng hearts remember you
as a great mother in Israel.


[Column 1]
	As an organizer we find you holding the po-
sition you justly occupy as leader of the Lat-
ter-day Saint Women Associations. From the
time our late lamented Prest., Brigham
Young, called upon you to assist in reorganiz-
ing these charitable and far-reaching for good
societies, you have been unfaltering and untir-
ing in your labors until all Zion is one vast
map of organization, and no poor or destitute
need have it to say, "I know not where to go
for help." Your labors have not stopped in
providing for the temporal wants of the poor,
but the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement
Associations are organized all over the land
for the spiritual culture and the general in-
struction of those verging into the important
and holy positions of wifehood and mother-
hood. How can we estimate the value of your
numberless words of wise counsel given, which
like the circling waves from a pebble cast into
the middle of a great sea, widen and enlarge
until they touch the shore of posterity. And
your indefatigable spirit of organizing does not
stop with the youth of Zion, but reaches down
to cull the tender buds, fresh from the mater-
nal bosoms, to form the Primary Associations,
where the seeds of truth are sown in virgin
soil, and the twig is bent as it is desired to
grow. And thus the cycle of organization, as
a wheel within the greater wheel of the Priest-
hood, is completed, and no one in all Zion who
responds to the call need stand alone without
the pale of organization. Thus the bond of
everlasting love, as warp of the web into which
we are all woven as woof, forms us into one
harmonious family, which already, though so
small, is fast becoming the terror of the wicked
world.
	In the midst of all these labors poetic effu-
sions flash through the interstices of your
work, which is a grateful assurance to us that
the oil of life has not yet burned low, but, like
the wise virgin, you keep your lamp trimmed
and burning, awaiting the coming of the Great
Bridegroom.
	The journey to Palestine, which by permis-
sion you participated in, was an important
epoch in the world's history, which it little ap-
preciates, but we who know rejoice in and are
proud that a woman assisted in that great la-
bor of love for truth's sake. The mighty pow-
er of endurance you displayed in that exten-
sive journey, and your long life of incessant ac-
tivity is a monument of the divine truth of
the word of wisdom, which teaches to be tem-
porate in all things, and the value of system
and order in all the duties of life.
	We congratulate you that your life has been
permitted to so nearly span the era between
the planting of the last dispensation and the
final victory of truth over error. We know the
day of victory is near at our door and we earn-
estly pray, if it be the will of providence, that
your days may not be ended until truth be en-
throned, and its feet are firmly planted upon
the neck of error.
	Though "Party-zeal" with "Deceit and
Greed," and all their horde, are vigorously work-
ing to rob the women and all the truest Saints
of the Latter-day of their most sacred rights as
American born citizens, we pray you may yet
see the fulfillment of the promise which has
been revealed to you from heaven, that in-
vestigation, inquiry, truth and knowledge and
their adherents will gain the victory, because
they are stars of brilliant flame and shine for
the true heirs of this favored land of Joseph-

"There needs no sail for Zion's ship—
	Our foes may pause and wonder;
They move us on at every clip,
	And row their own crafts under."

	In conclusion, beloved chief of the sister-
hood of the Saints, permit us this night anew
to reassure you of our most earnest co-opera-
tion in all your labors in the interest of human-
ity, of our unwavering faith in your destiny.

[Column 2]
And our constant prayers are that your au-
tumnal days of life may lead into paths strewn
with flowers of fairest hue and sweetest frag-
rance and fruits of eternal flavor, springing
from the seeds sown by your arduous and glor-
ious toil on earth. Your life work we accept
as an example worthy of emulation by all your
contemporaries and posterity, and long may
you yet remain with us as a beacon warning off
danger, and as a High Priestess and faithful
watchwoman on the towers of Zion, guiding
and directing all to our Celestial Home.
					ROMANIA B. PRATT.
	Salt Lake City, Jan. 19th., 1884,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

A VENERABLE WOMAN.

PRESENDIA LATHROP KIMBALL.

[Continued.]

"We remained at Bishop Aaron Johnson's 
in Springville with his numerous family in
peace and good feeling with us all, until the
word of the Lord through President Brigham
Young was that the Saints might return to
their homes. I had watched for the smoke of 
our lovely city, which we had so cheerfully re-
signed to its fate, for we were determined to
lay it in ashes rather than leave our homes and
the fruits of our toil to fall into the hands of
our enemies, who, not content with driving us
from the borders of civilization, had followed
us into our mountain retreat. God had
changed the programme, the people, some of
them, were soon en route for our vacated city.
We had cheerfully made the sacrifice and He
had accepted it. As fast as was convenient
one family after another returned to the city,
and other places that had been vacated. The
conclusion was in my case that Martha Knight
Kimball and I should remain awhile in the
southern settlements, I was moved to Provo
and stayed there until September. The door-
yards were full of tall grass and the fruit trees
wern loaded with beautiful peaches and apples.
Sister Vilate (that blessed woman, a mother to
us all, when I think of her my heart swells
with gratitude) would give Bro. Kimball no
peace until he sent for me to return to the fam-
ily.
	Sarah Ann, Lucy, Mary H. and myself oc-
cupied the house that had been built for the el-
dest son William. I felt that I could do more
good at spinning and weaving for those who
needed it most, as all depended on their own
labor for clothing. In the evenings we pared
the fruit to dry. We spent the fall and winter
very pleasantly, four wives in one house, with
little children. This will seem like an anoma-
ly to our Gentile friends.
	"Early in the spring Howard Egan was sent
back to St. Louis to buy groceries and real nec-
essaries for family use. I gathered $5.00 and
sent back for carpet warp. Mary Kimball and
I had made the first rag carpet made in the
city. When the warm spring weather came
we "thinned out," and I went to live in the 17th
Ward, on the lot formerly owned by Hosea
C[-]shing, an adopted son of Bro. Kimball's.
My son Oliver had remained in Springville af-
ter I left there. He went freighting to Lower
California, and during his absence his wife cor-
responded with my eldest son George, who
held out great inducements for Oliver to take
his family and go back to St. Louis, Mo., and 
go into business with him in the woolen fac-
tory. The next spring he went East with Esquire
Wells who was going to England on a mission.
His wife was anxious he should go back, for
she had lost her faith in the Gospel. My
Agony of soul could not be told or written
when he left. I have never shed many tears
since, as the fountain was broken up."
	"Aunt Huldah boarded with me and taught
the 17th Ward school. I was alone with my
little boy Joseph, one out of nine children, and

[Column 2]

yet I lived. On the 27th of June Sisters Han-
nah T. King, Susan Schettler, Zina D. H.
Young and myself concluded to spend a por-
tion of that solemn day on Ensign Peak and
made the summit, prepared ourselves with re-
freshments, then rested ourselves, took our din-
ner and then built an altar of stone, carried
and piled up, around the altar we knelt and of-
fered up our prayers to God and thanks that He
had raised up a prophet in these last days and
the Gospel had been restored to the earth, and
that we had been of the few that had received
the truth. We sang and blest each other and
it seemed to us the spirit of the martyred pro-
phet, whose death we commemorated on that
sacred spot, was there and took cognizance of
our sacred honor to him. Several years after
I visited the sacred spot and the pile of stones
remained nearly as we left them."
	"I remained in the 17th Ward until the ap-
proach of winter, my labors were blest, I had
a good garden, as Bro. Campkin remarked, I
had the best crop that had ever been produced
on the lot. During all this time, however, I
never neglected any calls to visit the sick, the
dying, and the dead. I always took great
pains in preparing the dead beautifully for
their final rest, remembering what the Prophet
Joseph Smith had said, "dress your friends as
though they were going into the best of com-
pany." Never leave them with any part of
their clothing incomplete. I have no fear to
meet the many that I have helped to lay away.
When the winter came Bro. Kimball, to lessen
his expenses, gathered closer his numerous
family. Huldah B. and Harriet S. were in the
same house with me and our children. We
enjoyed ourselves and lived very harmonious
and quiet together. In the spring we were to
be again separated. My little son Joseph was
then eight years old. His father baptized him.
He bought a house and lot for me in the 16th
Ward, near to my brother's, Dimick B. Hunt-
ington, and on the 7th of April he sent for me
to go to his private room and gave me a bless-
ing and told me to write it and it should be
fulfilled, which I have realized to the letter.
When he had said all he wished to me, I said,
Bro. Kimball, when I make this move to-day I
shall have moved twenty-one times by your re-
quest, and I shall consider I am of age and
wish to remain in the 16th Ward for the fu-
ture."


KATE FIELD AND HER LECTURE.

	To show how little Bostonians know about
Mormons and their public buildings, we repub-
lish the following from the Woman's Journal,
but which first appeared in the Boston's Travel-
ler:
	Miss Kate Field repeated her lecture, "An
Evening with Dickens," in Salt Lake City,
for the benefit of the Mormon Hospital. She
spoke in the "Social Hall," a Mormon build-
ing, dedicated by Brigham Young,and is prob-
ably the first Gentile who ever stood on its plat-
form. Her audience were almost exclusively
Mormon, attentive, but unresponsive. Just
before the lecture began Governor Murray en-
tered, and his entrance created considerable re-
mark, the lines are so strongly drawn there be-
tween "Saint" and Gentile. When questioned
as to why he came, Governor Murray replied:
"I wanted to show my respect for Miss Field,
and I thought wherever she could afford to go I
could. Moreover, I wish to support everything
in Utah that is compatible with loyalty to the
government."


Pretty napkins for trays and fruit dishes are
of cream-colored momie cloth, with designs of
grapes, peaches, plums and apples, mingled
with their leaves. The work is either in Ken-
sington or etching style, and the napkins are
finished with a border of drawn work and a
knotted fringe.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 131


A BIRTHDAY TRIBUTE

TO ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.

What offering shall we bring
	That shall be fitting to this day!
Not merely ceremonial words
	That chill the warmth in what we'd say.

Nay, time hath caught away the veil
	Custom oft weaves as a disguise,
She better loves the simplest speech
	Wherein the heart's true meaning lies.

Earth—jewels rich and rare?
	The gift would fail its sweet intent;
To win those that in heaven shine
	Her whole life's labors have been spent.

Then shall we bring to her
	A wreath of fame, her hymns to praise?
Nay, this were little, for her brow
	So long hath worn the poet's bays.

Could some one wreathe in song
	A loftier theme than e'er was sung?
Nay, she hath heard harmonies roll
	Too rapturous sweet for mortal tongue.

A people's blessing, then,
	Upon her well loved name.
Yes, bring her this, for well she knows
	Her Father gives the same.

His people's greeting comes
	Throughout our land, from o'er the tide,
From out the hearts of faithful Saints
	Responsive echoes far and wide.

Thousands whom she hath met
	But [---], within a sacred place
Hold in sincerest, fondest love
	Remembrance of her name and face.

The cycle of her years,
	Like a rich golden cord, doth hold
Those precious works, whose value are
	Only by tongues celestial told.

Peace, joy, attend her path!
	May this day, through returning years,
Find every link in friendship's chain
	Around her in immortal spheres.

AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.


[Column 1]

A SKATING PARTY.

	There were nine in our party that night fif-
teen years ago. Such a party! and such a night!
The moon had just past the full, and hovered
low over the eastern hills. Not a cloud in the
sky; each star shone clear, and in its brightness
seemed to stand alone in the blue firmament
that arched us over. It was so still, so calm,
so cold, and all was so white. The rising moon
shining on the spotless snow was met by a
thousand dancing lights, as radiant and lus-
trous as diamonds, while the eye never wearied
of the brilliant scene, and the heart drank
deep of the holy calm that descended upon us
like a mantle of peace.
	There were nine in our party that night:
four boys and five girls; and in the happy way
of fifteen years ago we went to the old mill-
pond. One of the boys provided the horses, an-
other the wagon bed and the hay heaped high
over the sides, another hunted up the bobs or
runners, and we all furnished our own rugs and
wraps. Just as the moon rose over the tips of
a tall elm tree, which stood in front of the
home of my sweetheart, we gave one wild
"hurrah!" which sounded loud and clear as only
it can sound on a cold, clondless night, and a-
way we went.
	We were happy that night, fifteen years ago,
the full laugh, the merry song filled the crispy
air, and many a window blind was raised, and
many a curious face peered out into the moon-
lit night in the hope of learning to what merry
party the pleasant tones belonged; and we
could see the bright flames reflected on the win-
dow panes as the fire on the hearth leaped high

[Column 2]

for the moment and then subsided into a steady
glow.
	There were nine in our party that night. An
odd party, was it not? But we did not think
so, for the sweet face of the fair girl who had
no beau that night was beloved by us all. She
came because we insisted; because she worked
hard and supported a widowed mother and
crippled sister, and because her sweet disposi-
tion aud the smile on her care-worn face drew
every heart out to her. She was happy that
night; her low and moving voice mingling 
cheerily with ours.
	We passed through the village, down the
long lane, over the hill where the winter wind
was keen and chill; and we drew the dear form
of the one nearest closer and closer to our own,
and looked into the pale and lovely face by our
side, made still paler and lovlier by the great sil-
very moon, which shed its wealth of rich light
upon us all, and upon the leafless tree and the
unsheltered and lonely bush near the cross-road.
On! on we went! every heart beating gaily—
every soul full of song and joy, till the old
mill, dark and dismal, came within view.
And we stopped at the same place where we
used to go on summer evenings when taking
the stealthy swim. We drove full on to the
ice, strapped on our skates and were soon glid-
ing over the smooth mirror which nature cre-
ates that the fair heavens may see themselves
reflected at that season even when frost reigns
supreme.
	Oh! we were happy that night! So happy
that the hours seemed but moments, and flew
by with noiseless tread. Not one thought of
care entered our bosoms; no one dreamed of
anything but the glory of the night and the
rapture of the hour. So none saw the bent
form that came across the ice towards us, nor
noticed that it moved slowly to the spot where
the spring was known to be, and where the
pond scarcely ever froze, save only at rare
times, when it was covered by a thin film of
ice—no one saw the form suddenly bend for-
ward and then sink; but the wild scream that
rang out on the midnight air struck such ter-
ror to my heart that I could never forget it,
were I to live till the millennium shall dawn
upon benighted man. We stopped, breathless,
and listened; but the stillness seemed rather to
grow from the anxiety with which we hearken-
ed, in hopes of catching the faintest sound.
Long, long we listened, but the beating of each
fond heart that in its terror crept closer to our
own, was the only sound to which the quick and
waiting ear gave heed. No one spoke; all
moved silently to the old-fashioned sleigh, and
we started home. The song had died on our
lips, the mirth had departed from our hearts,
and we went back past the old church yard,
where the tombstones, half buried in the snow,
were covered with diamonds and nature's
prisms, in which the cold moon could see its
beams reflected with the many colors of the
rainbow. And nearer and nearer was drawn
each slender form, and closer and closer beat
our hearts in tender unison; and no one ob-
served the sweet girl who was companionless
that night, until she fell against my shoulder
pale and rigid, when her lips closed with a wail
of anguish that resolved itself into the pitying
word, "Mother." Her pale face was upturned
to the moon, and seemed ghastly in its white-
ness. We chafed her hands and rubbed her
cheeks and temples; but though she breathed
and sighed her eyes never opened to the silvery
moon again; her voice no more burst forth in
song; and when we carried her into the humble
home, of which she had been the life and sup-
port, she was dead. How shall I describe that
scene? The home was still and deserted by life;
the embers burned low upon the hearth, and
close beside it, cold and peaceful, and in the
arms of death, lay the poor, crippled sister.
But the mother was not there; she had followed

[Column 3]

her daughter to the pond when the cripple
breathed its last, and the next day her body
was found beneath the ice near the spring.
	It is fifteen years since that night. I have
seen much of life, I have suffered much, and
have beheld much suffering; but the memory of
that hour is as fresh and vivid as it was just
fifteen years ago. Of that party only two re-
main. The sweet faces and manly forms are
laid to rest beneath the sod in the old church-
yard; and to-night, while the moon is just past
the full, while the stars shine clear and high,
in my mind's eye I can see the old tombstones,
with the new ones interwoven, half buried in
the snow, covered with diamonds, and reflect-
ing back the moon's cold rays, and I sigh and
shut mine eyes, and pray God that none of
those I love should ever have so sad an experi-
ence with a skating party.	S. S.


MISS RUSSELL IN ARIZONA.
DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	I promised you to  write before leaving home
whenever I found anything of interest.  Well,
one would be dull and blind indeed to find no-
thing worthy of note between here and Salt
Lake City, to me there was so much that the
trouble is where to begin and how to tell it, or
describe it best to others.  The good wishes of
our friends in regard to our journey were fully
realized, for it was just as pleasant as it could
be, not the slightest accident or anything un-
pleasant on the way.
	In coming through the Truckee County, the
immense piles of lumber and wood was quite a
sight in itself to old Missourians, who are still
partial to wood fires, although deprived of
them for a great many years.
	The snowsheds and tunnels annoyed me very
much, as they robbed us of much of the grand-
est scenery, I think one would need to be snow-
bound ou the road a time or two to make them
appreciate the sheds.  There are lovely little
hamlets, and cottages alone, here, there and
everywhere, all through the Sierras, some looked
most pleasant and home-like, others wild and
desolate. Coming down what they called blue
canyon is the grandest sight I ever saw, and
you need to be fascinated by the wild, magnifi-
cent beauties of nature there to take your mind
off the danger, to make you forget the fearful
leaps the train is liable to take; one was,
wrecked there about a month before we came
so a gentleman on the cars informed us.
	At Sacramento we spent several hours; visit-
ed the State House, which is a very fine build-
ing, and the grounds around are beautiful,
saw oranges and lemons growing for the first 
time, also palm and many other trees and
plants new to me. Went down to the river,
(Sacramento) and found several boats at the 
landing, which much reminded me of old Mis-
souri days.
	Temple is about thirty miles from Maricopa
Station; the road mostly level.  Last Monday
a number of us climbed to the top of a peak
or young mountain a short distance north of
the settlement, and had a fine view of the sur-
rounding country.  We saw Brother B. Young
going up after we started down, and he was
much pleased with what he saw, judging from
the discourse he gave us that night.
	From the peak you can see a vast country
spread out in every direction; Salt Lake valley
could be set down in one corner easily. One
ruin, plainly visible from the mount, has the
appearance of having been a fort, or fortified
castle; I am anxious to visit it, but have not
had an opportunity yet.
	The City papers are welcome visitors, and
help us  forget that we are so far from home.
I think if this country has to be built up by
our people they had better hurry up and ex-
tend the Utah Southern down this way.
		I remain, sincerely your friend,
	TEMPE, Jan. 9, 1884.		S. E. RUSSELL.


132	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine.Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, FEBRUARY 1, 1884.


[Column 1]

WOMAN'S SUFFRAGE.

	Immediately after seeing the telegram in the
papers, stating that the Executive Committee
of the N. W. S. A. of New York had protested
against the disfranchisement of the women of
Utah, etc., a telegram was sent to Mrs. Lillie
Deveruex Blake the President, and the ladies
of the Committee, a brief and sincere acknowl-
edgement, thanking them for the interest they
had taken in the matter. The dispatch was
signed by Eliza R Snow Smith, President of
Latter-day Saint Women's Organizations, Zina
D. H. Young, Fi s[-] Vice President, M. Isabella
Home, Second Vice president, Sarah M. Kim-
ball, Secretary, Presendia L. Kimball, Bath-
sheba W. Smith, Elizabeth Howard, Romania
B. Pratt, M. D., Ellis R. Shipp, M. D., Martha
Pual Hughes, M. D., Kate Wells, Zina Y. Wil-
liams, Ellen C. Clawson and Emmeline B.
Wells, Vice President National Women Suffrage
Association for Utah. The dispatch was pub-
lished in the "Daily Evening Telegram," and
other eastern papers. Since then letters have
been received from leading ladies in the east, as-
suring us of their hearty support in maintaining
woman suffrage, and expressing the opinion that
the unjust legislation against Utah would not
be sustained by the majority in Congress.
	Senator Edmunds has lost prestige with the
women suffragists, by advocating disfranchise-
for the women of Utah. Perhaps he had an
idea that there were more girls than boys
among our young people, and by the abolishing
of the franchise for women the "liberal party"
might gain ground, but that is not the case.
There are quite as many, if not more, boys born
in Utah than girls, and the idea that the off-
spring of plural marriage are mostly girls is far
from the truth. However we do not support
woman suffrage because there is any need of it
for the People's Party, not at all; but upon the
principle of legitimate right and political equal-
ity. That women are as well qualified as men
are to cast a vote and to give opinions, or even
decisions upon important matters, that they are
legally entitled to joint consideration and partici-
pation in the public weal, and should be equal
partners in the great governments of the world.
When it is well known that the most just and
equable of sovereigns have been women, why
should the people protest against the simple
right of franchise, the first preliminary step to-
wards political advancement. That is always
highest, best and most complete in which man
and woman both participate, and the highest
political and general good will be attained when
men and women work harmoniously for the in-
terest of the human family; politically as well
as morally, socially and religiously.
	The Governor of Iowa recommends prohibi-
tion and woman suffrage in his message to the

[Column 2]

Legislature, which is very encouraging to those
ladies who have labored so arduously in their ef-
forts for equal rights.
	Washington Territory is the third among the
Territories of the United States to give women
the franchise, and there is a recommendation to
Congress to appoint Mrs. A. J. Duniway Gov-
enor of the Territory. We have had some ac-
quaintance with the lady, and have no doubt
but she would fill the position with honor and
dignity.
	As for honesty and uprightness of character,
women have always been credited with a high
degree of conscientiousness in all matters of
business, and we have heard men remark, who
had been in business for years, that they never
lost a debt through the lack of honesty in a wo-
man. We should be very glad to see Mrs. Duni-
way appointed Governor; she justly deserves the
position for her able and efficient labors in
bringing about the passage of the bill granting
women political equality.


AN OVATION.

	On Monday, January 21st, Sister Eliza R.
Snow Smith, President of the Latter-day Saint
Women's Organizations, received such an ova-
tion as is seldom accorded to a woman. The
party met in the Social Hall at 5 p.m , and the
exercises began about six o'clock. President
John Taylor made some preliminary remarks
suitable to the occasion, and congratulated Sis-
ter Eliza on having arrived at the age of four
score years. A good spirit seemed to rest upon
all assembled to pay this tribute of respect to a 
veteran mother in Israel, and the widow of the
Prophet Joseph Smith.
	Prest. George Q Cannon took charge of the
meeting. Singing by the company, "O, My
Father." Prayer by Prest. George Q Cannon.
Address of welcome, by Sister Zina D. H.
Young; Reading, an original poem, by Mattie
Horne, composed for the occasion by Emily H.
Woodmansee; Song, by Bishop O. F. Whitney,
and remarks by Apostle Erastus Snow and Wil-
ford Woodruff. President A. M. Cannon, Prest.
Joseph F. Smith and Prest. George Q. Cannon
interspersed with songs and readings. A basket
of the choicest and most delicate flowers 
and vines was presented to the honored lady
from the ladies of the committee, and a hand-
some and fragrant bouquet from Sister M. M.
Barratt.
	We publish in this issue, the poem read by
Miss Mattie Horne, and also the poem by Sister
Crocheron, ready by Mrs. Susa Young Gates, and
the address by Dr. Romania B. Pratt.
	We add our sincere congratulations to that of
her many friends, and trust that she may live
until she is satisfied with life, in the full posses-
ion of every faculty of mind and body.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES[-]

	THE picture entitled, "Representative Wo-
men," and dedicated to Sister Eliza R. S. Smith,
the President of the Latter-day Saints Women's
Organizations, is now ready. The artistic part
of the work, which has been designed by Sister
Crocheron, is certainly very pretty, and shows
plainly the lady's talent. The work was litho-
graphed at the Graphic Office in New York,
and the likenesses are photographs taken in
this city. There is a book of pen-sketches of
about 140 pages, which will enhance the inter-
est of the picture.
	The organized work, which has been done by
women of this Church, is represented by the
leading officer of each society or association, and
the mottoes and emblems are expressive. Lit-
erature, education, music, science and art are al-

[Column 2]
so represented, and have appropriate symbols.
Altogether it is a very unique affair, but being
something entirely new will naturally meet
with criticism, though the object of Sister
Crocheron was a good and laudable one, and she
deserves success and patronage, for she has la-
bored under an accumulation of difficulties in
bringing the work before the public.
	MISS EMILY FAITHFUL: This distinguished
gentlewoman arrived in Salt Lake City Thurs-
day morning, January 18th, accompanied by
her private Secretary, Miss Charlotte Robinson.
She remained here about ten days, and during
that time we had the opportunity of meeting
her several times.
	Miss Faithful is well known in Great Britain,
America and Canada as a writer, a lecturer, a
philinthropist and reformer. She is connected
with the Princess Louise in philanthropical and
emigration work.
	Miss Faithful is the daughter of an English
clergyman, but is not herself bound by any
sectarian or restrictive ideas. When a young
lady she was presented at court, and has been
associated with the best people in England. She
is greatly admired not only in her own country
but in America also.
	She gave her celebrated lecture entitled
"Modern Shams" in the theatre in this city,
and was received with appreciative enthusism.
She was faultlessly dressed, and appeared per-
fectly at ease and natural; no attempts at dis-
play of language, no unnecessary gestures, no
pacing up and down, but graceful in manner
and simple in style, she appealed direct to the
intelligence of her audience, who were intent
in listening, and gave the strictest attention to
the speaker.
	The lecture itself was a decided and eloquent
protest against the shame, extravagances and
subterfuges of modern times, and the worship
of mammon, the god of this world, and especial-
ly of the present age. She thinks the present
style of living, of dressing and of public dinners,
parties, etc., is tending to an increase of jealousy
and hate among the working people, and will
eventually, if not arrested in its progress[--]y a
sensible change for the better, bring about a
state of things similar to the French revolution.
Her lecture was matter of fact, truths that every
one could receive, and she gave it in a clear and
happy manner, calculated to make a deep im-
pression on those who heard it.
	Miss Faithful is affable and amiable in man-
ner, a woman whom one can love and admire
for her nobility of soul and thorough apprecia-
tion of the needs of the age. She has great
good sense and marked ability; these qualities
combined with a superior education and exten-
sive travel make her a most charming conversa-
tionalist.
	We are very sorry she had not more time to
spend in the city, for her lecture was so highly
appreciated we feel confident it might have been
repeated to a full house.


LETTER III.

BERN, Switzerland, Dec. 17th, 1883.

MY DEAR MOTHER:
	You say you have had no letter from me after
I left New York before the one from Bern, writ-
ten on the 5th ult. I wrote you a long letter on
board the Oregon the day we sighted land, and
put it myself into the mail bag to be sent from
Queenstown. I am sorry you did not get it, as it
gave a brief description of the magnificent vessel
we sailed in, and a full account of my voyage,
with all its pleasures and annoyances. I think
every one on board wrote letters home; I won-
der if they all, like mine, never reached their
destined goal.	*	*	*	You wonder if


[Column 1]
we have glowing grate fires and lights such as
we have at home; and you will be surprised to
hear what kind of fires we have. Our room I
believe I tried to describe before, and if I ne-
glected mentioning the stove I did very wrong,
for it is a principal feature of the room, both on
account of its size and use. In all the houses
here, and ours is no exception, they have large
porcelain stoves, some square, some round.
Some are very prettily ornamented and look
very nice in a room. The fire is made on the
outside in the chimney, it seems to me, and
when it once heats up, this great oven or table,
the room becomes gradually warm. The heat
is even and moderate, and the best of it all is,
there is never any smoke or coal dust, or sign of
fire in the room. The fire is laid and lighted in
the hall, and one is never bothered with sweep-
ing up hearths or taking up ashes in one's room.
They are very queer things, and I fear my des-
cription is not very lucid.
	This morning John Q. and I went through an
art museum; this is the first museum or gallery
I have visited, and some of the pictures inter-
ested me very much. There were some very
good pictures and some very poor; but most of
them were very odd and very old, and these in-
terested me and I enjoyed looking at them very
much. The prettiest and the most interesting
thing in Bern is the wood carving. Some of
this work is truly wonderful, and very beauti-
ful. There are battle scenes represented very
clearly and very handsomely, and all done with
a little knife. There are several large stores in
the city where they sell nothing else.
	Our Conference here begins next Sunday and
continues Monday and Tuesday. We will have
a kinder-feast. I have been helping to trim a
Christmas tree for the children.	ANNIE.

LETTER IV.
BERN, Switzerland, Dec. 25th, 1883.

MY DEAREST SISTER LOUIE:
	How strange it seems to be in this far distant
land among strangers on a day like this. John
Q. and I have said so many times to-day, I won-
der what the folks are doing at home? And we
have wished so much we could see our little
George Q. I suppose his eyes are popping al-
most out of his head with surprise and wonder.
*	*	I have been helping to trim a Christ-
mas tree for the children. The festival is to be
given to night. There are eleven missionaries
here in Bern to-day. They gathered here for
the Conference, which was held yesterday and
Sunday, and are staying to spend Christmas.
The latter part of this week we go to Winter-
thur to attend Conference, and intend to return
by way of Zurich.
	Dec. 26th. I postponed finishing my letter
yesterday so I could tell you more about our
Christmas. The children came out in full
force, and they had a very nice time. A very
witty young German fellow dressed himself up
to represent Santa Claus, and when the child-
ren were singing he came in with a long basket
filled with presents on his back, a basket of
good things in one hand, and a Christmas tree
in the other, all lit up and trimmed with pretty
things. It was a total surprise to the little folks,
and at first some of the smaller ones were
frightened.	*	*	*	*	*
	The day was kept quietly here, all houses of
business closed, and the people mostly in doors,
save as they came to and from church. The
bells began to ring at five in the morning and
rang every quarter of an hour all day, except
when service was held.	*	*	*
	Before this I presume the Unity Club Fair is
all over with. I trust it was a great success. I
should very much like to know what became of
that wonderful quilt.

[Column 2]
	Ward pack has come down from Berlin, and
will assist the secretary in the office, so John Q.
will have more liberty to go out in the mission
ary field. He purposes visiting every Confer-
ence in the mission. First through Switzerland
and then Germany. I will join him at Geneva,
and expect then to see the Castle of Chillion, of
which we have read and heard so much, and
now my wish to see it is to be realized. As I
have three or four more letters to write before
going to Winterthur I will not prolong this one;
you will [-]ear from me through them all. John
Q. joins me in love to onr brothers and sisters,
dear father and mother, with much love for your
sweet self. May you have the happiest of New
Year's, and receive more blessings of health and
joy than ever.
					ANNIE W. CANNON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
	PRECEPT AND EXAMPLE.
	In reading the Church works my mind goes
back to early days, and I remember a revelation
that was given, called the "Word of Wisdom;”
and it was given for the benefit of the Latter-
day Saints—for their preservation in a time to
come. About the time it was given, or rather
soon after, the Church, both men and women,
almost universally observed its teachings, and a
man that did not keep it according to his under-
standing was not considered worthy to adminis-
ter in the ordinances of the Holy Priesthood—
at least so it was decided in the High Council at
Kirtland. (Joseph Smith’s History, Times and
Seasons. And I would ask, what improvement
have we, as a people, made in the years that
have passed? The Lord well knows the weak-
nesses of human nature, and is very lenient.
But how much longer will he bear with this
people? It seems to me that our time is about
up, and the Lord will soon require a more strict
observance of His word, or we must suffer the
consequences.
	A short time ago the subject of sewerage, san-
itary measures, etc. was agitated to a consider-
able extent. Now, cleanliness is an excellent
thing as everybody knows; but the inside of the
platter should be kept clean as well as the out-
side. If it were possible to make a sewer large
enough to take in all the breweries, whisky sa-
loons, et cetera and, their patrons, and then
empty the contents of the inexhaustible “Lit-
tle Brown Jug,” and wash them all away it
might be a great benefit to the people. Many
wonder where diptheria, and other horrible des-
eases come from, and why we are so often afflic-
ted with them. Some lay it to cesspools and
such like; which may be, in a measure, correct,
especially if they are defective; but if the sys-
tem is kept in proper order, by observing the
Word of Wisdom disease would not have power
to lay hold and destroy. It is no mystery to
me where these things come from, for the Lord
has said, through the mouths of His holy proph-
ets, that He would pour out His judgments up-
on the face of the whole earth without measure
in the last days. And it has been declared that
a desolating sickness shall pass over the land
But the Lord has been mindful of His people,
and shown them whereby they can escape these
things. And if the Saints will not take advan-
tage of God’s mercy, in making known unto
them a way of escape, how can they have faith
and confidence to call on Him for help in the
hour of their trouble.
	We send our children to Sunday School that
they may be taught the principles of righteous-
ness. They are taught to honor their father and
mother. They, are taught the necessity of
keeping the Word of Wisdom, etc. At home,
perhaps, they see their father take his beer or
whiskey; they see him smoke his cigar and chew

[Column 2]
tobacco. The'r mother takes her tea and coffee
at the table, and if the children do not take it,
it is because they are not allowed, but will do so
when they are older. Children generally look
upon their parents as perfect beings, and what
they do is right, and they should think so; for
the commandment to them is, “Honor thy
father and thy mother, etc.” Now, what is to
be done when precept and example conflict?
Surely this cannot be beneficial to the young.
A short time ago I called at a neighbor’s house;
a little girl was rolling up a piece of paper, and
said she was going to smoke. I said, it is wrong
to smoke. “Oh, but pa smoke!” So, whatever
pa or ma does must be right, for they are the
highest authority in the eyes of children. If
they drink whiskey, chew tobacco, smoke, use
tea and coffee, it must be good or they would
not use it. Now, if parents persist in using
these things the children will be apt to follow
in their footsteps; and then where is the use of
the “Word of Wisdom” at all. If we will not
do our part, how can we expect the Lord will do
His? Can we expect the destroyer will pass by
our door and not enter? Verily, no. He will be
apt to enter and lay hold of the weakest of the
flock, and when it is too late we will see our mis-
take.
	Now, if the Lord designs to raise up a strong
and mighty people He will be apt to take those
for the foundation that will be obedient to all
His words, whether it relates to our spiritual or
temporal welfare. The two cannot well be sep-
arated. Our physical health and strength de-
pend, in a great measure, on what we eat and
drink. I have great faith in the doctrine of
“The survival of the fittest.” It would not be
a pleasant idea to know that our posterity would
be cut off from the land, being weaklings, made
so by the injudicious habits of their parents,
	When, many years ago, the Lord proposed to
people this continent, He sought out two of the
best families in Jerusalem—those that were
strong both physically and mentally. And when
they were traveling toward the promised land
they were not permitted to eat anything but
raw meat. The Lord designed them to be the
root of a nation that should endure many hun-
dred years. I dare say there was some murmur-
ing, but the Lord made their food sweet unto
them, and they were healthy and strong, and
their women bore children in the wilderness,
and I doubt not but they were far healthier and
stronger than they would have been had they
had less air and a greater variety of food. Sup-
pose a people in these days were required to ab-
stain from all kinds of food but raw meat; would
there not be some grumbling? I think there
would. The Lord has given us a great many
good things, and has withheld nothing that is
for our good. Then let us not complain, but re-
joice that our Father has been mindful of His
people, and given them a “Word of Wisdom.”
Some think because they work hard they need
a little “something” to keep them up. Others
are not very well and they indulge in using tea,
coffee, beer, and other things that God has said
is not good for man. One woman showed me her
hands that were crippled with rheumatism as an
excuse for drinking tea Some excuse them-
selves in one way, and others in another way—
and perhaps they are excusable, it is not for
me to say. But it is the effect of the example,
set before the rising generation that I am writ-
ing about. Perhaps if we had faith enough to
try the Lord we might have better health, more-
strength to perform our labors, and greater
stores of knowledge—all of which are promised
to the obedient. I would suggest that the
“Word of Wisdom” be read occasionally in all-
the Relief Societies, Young Men’s and Young
Ladies’ Associations, and very often in the
Primaries. Too much cannot be said on this


subject. If parents neglect their duties in re-
gard to these things, children will grow up in-
diffirent as to the word of the Lord, that is if
they live to grow up at all. Then where will be
that great and mighty people the Lord is to
raise up in the last days to stand upon Mt. Zion?
I will tell you what I think about it. The Lord
will select the best and perpetuate their seed,
while drunkeness and debauchery will have no
place among the people of God.
								E. DOW.


134	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
A YOUNG WOMAN'S TESTIMONY.

"Oh, if others but could see as as we are, and not de-
light to misrepresent us."

TO THE EDITOR OF THE ÆGIS:

	You wish to know how, and in what way I
know that Plural Marriage is right. By revela-
tion. I know by the same way that Peter knew
that Jesus was the Christ. "Jesus asked His
disciples whom do men say that I am, and they
answered and said, some say that Thou art John
the Baptist; some Elias; others Jeremiah or
one of the Prophets. He saith unto them, whom
do ye say that I am, and Simon Peter answered
and said Thou art the Christ, the Son of the
living God; and Jesus answered and said unto
him, blessed art thou Simon Barjona; for flesh
and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but
my Father which is in Heaven. I say unto
thee thou art Peter, and upon this rock will
I build my Church, and the gates of hell shall
not prevail against it." Matthew, from the
13th to 18th verse, 16th chap.
	What rock was that? Was it Peter? No.
It was the rock of revelation. God revealed
it unto Peter by the Holy Ghost, the Comforter.
In the same way God has revealed it unto me
that Plural Marriage is right.
	You ask me how I got my faith, or religion,
and further ask, "was it not given to you or
established for an authority over you by men."
I say most emphatically that it was not. Faith
and true religion can not be given by man.
Man himself is dependent upon God for those
gifts, and can not bestow them upon others.
	"Faith is a gift of God. Without faith it is
impossible to please God. Even so faith if it
hath not works is dead, being alone. But
wilt thou know, vain man, that faith without
works is dead." James, 3d chap.
	I said in my last article I was born in this
Church, and will now add, in the valleys of
these mountains, and am a free born American
citizen, though now disfranchised for obeying
the laws of God. From my earliest recollection
I had been taught to believe that the Bible
meant what it said, and that God could see and
hear me and that if I would pray He would an-
swer my prayers. I used to hear these passages
of Scripture quoted by our Elders: "If any of
you lack wisdom let him ask of God, who giveth
unto all men liberally and upbraideth not, and
it shall be given him." James 1, 5. "Ask
and it shall be given you; seek and ye shall
find; knock and it shall be opened unto you;
for every one that asketh, receiveth, and he
that seeketh findeth, and to him that knock-
eth it shall be opened." Matt. 7, 7. I wanted
to prove if those passages were true, if God could
really answer my prayers. I asked in childish
simplicity for a temporal gift and I received it;
this strengthened my faith and gave me con-
fidence to ask for things of more worth than
earthly gifts. I wanted to know for myself if
the principles taught me were true. I was
earnest. I went to God in humility and asked
for a testimony of the truth of the Gospel of
Jesus Christ. My prayer was heard. I was
answered. The Holy Ghost, the Spirit of God,
filled me with joy and gave me a testimony
that man can neither give nor take away.

[Column 2]
	I have not lived very long upon the earth,
but I have lived long enough to know the value
of prayer. I have made God my friend while
I am young by living near to Him, pleading
daily for strength and wisdom for the fellowship
of His Holy Spirit to enable me to perform the
duties required of me. I praise His name and
thank Him that He has answered my prayers.
You say that I am blind to my own rights and
God given privileges and am under the "mystic
shadows of priestcraft." It is not true. I
enjoy light and intelligence that God has given
me, that I am afraid you know nothing about.
You are certainly under the "shadows of priest-
craft" and are blind to the things of God and
His Kingdom or you would not talk about a
people and their religion as you do about the
"Mormons." What do you know about "a
Mormon woman's only hope or guarantee of
Heaven?" or what is publicity "sanctioned" in the
Mormon Church. You haven't enough of the
Spirit of truth to discern it when placed before
you, but there are none so blind as those who
"do not want to see."
	If you read the WOMAN'S EXPONENT you are
constantly reading the testimonies of Latter-
day Saint women, that are true. You not
only reject their testimonies, in defense of their
religion, but you misrepresent them, for which
you will have to give an account in the great
"hereafter."
	We are not such meek, submissive creatures
as you imagine we are. What we do, we do
because we know by the Spirit that we possess,
is right. We do it intelligently because we love
to do right. We do not believe we can be
saved in ignorance. God has provided the way
wherin we can obain "hidden treasures of
knowledge," that is, in "doing the will of the
Father." "If any man will do His will he shall
know of the doctrine whether it be of God or
whether I speak of myself." John 17, 17.
	We have the moral courage to live the prin-
ciples of our religion in spite of all the derision,
sneers and opposition of the whole world. Mr.
Edmunds, Mr. Cullom and "fifty millions of
people," can not take from us our faith and
confidence in God, nor the testimony He has
given us concerning His Church that He has
established never more to be "thrown down."
They are in the hands of God and can do no
more than He will permit them to do. It is
our business to do the will of God. He revealed
the principle of plural marriage and com-
manded us to obey it.
	We can not give it up; we must work the
works of Abraham or we can not go where he
is. God walked and talked with Abraham
after he had taken a second wife, and told him
that he would make a covenant with him and
multiply him exceedingly and make him a
father of many nations. The son of his plural
wife also received a great promise from God:
"I will make him fruitful and will multiply
him exceedingly; twelve princes shall he beget
and I will make him a great nation. " Gen.
17, 20.
	That didn't look as though God thought he
was illegitimate. Jacob, who had four wives,
was a man whom the Lord loved; the twelve
tribes of Israel descended from those polygamic
wives. Moses, the great lawgiver of Israel,
who talked with the Lord and saw many marvel-
ous manifestations of His power, made special
provisions for the children of polygamous mar-
riages, and he himself practiced it.
	The Prophet Samuel was the son of a polyg-
amist, yet he lived in the temple and was an
object of God's favor. Many more names might
be mentioned to show that God blessed and
prospered ancient Israel, who practiced the
patriarchal order of marriage, but we do not
practice it because they did; we do not say that
because they were justified, we are justified.
We do these things because we have been
commanded to do them. We worship the same

[Column 3]
God that walked and talked with them. This
is the same Gospel, with all its gifts and bless-
ings, that they enjoyed.
	In this Church men and women are equal,
they are one, their interest is one; one is not
complete without the other. "Neither is the
man without the woman, nor the woman with-
out the man in the Lord." 1 Cor. 11, 11. Mar-
raige is honorable in all and the bed undefiled,
but whoremongers and adulterers God will judge.
Heb. 13, 4. There is no law of public sanction
or custom for men to break their marriage vows
in "Mormonism." Divorce is very rare. God
delights in the chastity of His daughters; so do
His servants, and adultery is ranked next in
crime to murder among the "Mormons." Those
who practice such things are severed from the
Church. They are not connected with the Latter-
day Saints; they cut themselves off from the
Priesthood. A man makes solemn covenants
to be faithful to his wives, he does not deceive
one and betray another, but each one knows
that he has other wives whom he loves and who
love him. You ask "how can a woman gratify
her love on a creature that shares his with more
than one woman, that is, if he has any love or
knows what it is?"
	Let me ask you a question, if you are married
do you not love your husband, and does he not
love his mother and sisters, and if you are a
mother, does he not love your children? How
then can you gratify your love upon him, when
his is shared with so many? Does not a woman
love all her children equally? Does she lavish
all her affections on one child, and neglect
the others?
	It is your tradition that a man can only love
one woman; but what a poor "creature" a man
would be, with a soul so small, whose affection
was so limited he could only love one woman.
	We are told in the Bible that "God is love,"
well, then, if we have His Spirit we are filled
with love. This Spirit enables us to live in
this order, and to bear and forbear with each
other's imperfections.
	It makes us generous, kind and obliging.
We think it a blessing to have a good husband;
then why is it not equally a blessing for our
fellow sisters to have good husbands, and as
there are not good husbands enough for each
woman to have one alone, why not share with
each other in lawful marriage. We have the
Priesthood of God in our midst, not priestcraft,
who have the authority to marry for time and
all eternity, having the Apostleship or power
to seal on earth. We are the only people on
the earth who have this power and authority.
	You are married by man, "until death doth
you part." We are married by the power of
the Priesthood, to enjoy endless lives and asso-
ciations in the presence of God, if we keep the
faith and endure to the end.
	"But as it is written, eye hath not seen, nor
ear heard, neither hath it entered into the heart
of man, the things which God hath prepared
for them that love Him. But God hath re-
vealed them unto us by His Spirit; for the
Spirit searcheth all things, yea, the deep thing
of God. For what man knoweth the things of
a man save by the spirit of man which is in
him? Even so the things of God knoweth no
man but by the Spirit of God. But the natural
man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of
God: for they are foolishness unto him: neither
can he know them because they are spiritually
discerned." 1 Cor. 11.
	In the absence of this Spirit we can not ex-
pect you, or any one else, to comprehend the
difference between Priesthood, which we share
with our husbands and enjoy that equality you
would like to see established, and priestcraft,
which has governed the world for ages.
	"For except a man be born of water and of
the Spirit he can not enter the kingdom of
God."				M. E. TEASDALE.
	Nephi, Jan. 19th, 1884.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
OUR TRAVELS BEYOND THE
MISSISSIPPI.
BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	Horace mentions Bro. William Cahoon with
part of the band being encamped within a
short distance of us, also speaks of Bro's John
Taylor and Spencer having gone ahead.
"Here," he says, "it commenced raining soon
after our arrival, which, however, did not last
long. Bro Perry left us also to-day and went
back to Nauvoo."
	Next day Bro. Markham come back from
his camp, which was three miles ahead, with
fifteen or sixteen yoke of oxen to assist them
along, which was very acceptable, as during
the last night four of my father's horses had
strayed away, and a number of the boys had
gone out in pursuit of them—we went on to
Bro. Markham's camp and stopped. The
horses were found at the place where the boys
had last bought corn, some fifteen miles distant
from camp; probably they remembered it and
went back for another feast.
	The same day Horace wrote: "Brother Dal-
ton's horse was bitten to-day by a rattlesnake.
We have a civilized Indian of the ancient Del-
aware tribe with us, who is of great use to us
in such cases. Also this morning noticed a
heifer, belonging to Bro. John Pack, which
had been bitten. These reptiles are getting so
plenty as to be quite dangerous for those travel-
ing on foot, though I believe, as yet, no person
has been bitten. The other day one of Bro.
Kimball's horses being bitten he laid his hands
on the part effected, and rebuked the sickness
occasioned by the poison, in the name of the
Lord, which prayer was almost immediately
answered. Bro. Kimball says it is just as prop-
er to lay hands on a horse or an ox and admin-
ister to them in the name of the Lord, and of
as much utility, as it is to a humun being, both
being creatures of His creation, both, conse-
quently, having a claim to His attention.
	"Saturday, 25th. Traveled about seven
miles and encamped on quite a large creek, the
name unknown—called it Mt. Pleasant. This
day, by the advise of Bro. Kimball, Helen and
myself commenced "keeping house," or tent
rather, by ourselves; taking Hosea Cushing,
Wm. King, Jeannette Murray, Bro. Francis
Whitney and little Heber, thus, by this means,
more equalizing the number for the other tents
—rained a little during the night	*	*
To-day news came from Brigham that he was
five miles ahead on one of the forks of Grand
River, and that the calculation was to com-
mence splitting rails, etc., in order to inclose
some farms, also to lay out a town plat etc."
	"Sunday, 26th. This morning, notwithstand-
ing our beautiful location, we were forced to go
ahead, in consequence of there being no good
range for our cattle to feed.	*	* Before start-
ing heard Bro. Scott telling a circumstance
that happened about fifteen miles from here in
the Welder Settlement—this man, Welder, be-
ing notorious for his mobocratic principles. A
portion of the artillery had gone there and
taken jobs of work—they had earned about
$26—when they were visited by a committee,
professing to be a deputation of the people,
who told them they must leave immediately.
The man who owed them $26 seemed disposed
to pay them, but on manifesting a disposition
to do so he was told by his neighbors that he
should "pack his duds and leave;" accordingly
he paid them nothing—traveled five miles and
overtook the remainder of Zion's camp. At
this place the fitting out of those who intend
going over the mountains will take place.
Bro. S. Roundy came from Nauvoo that day,
bringing the mail. Bishop Whitney received
a letter from Thos. Burdick, dated April 22nd,
at Nauvoo, stating that he had just received a
letter from Reuben McBride, in Kirtland, an-

[Column 2]
nouncing the death of Grandfather Whitney.
The same day, by the kindness of one of the
artillery, our company were provided with
some fresh pork, some of the company having
killed a wild hog in that vicinity, of which
they saw quite a drove.
	"Monday; 27th" continues Horace, "on wak-
ing this morning found it raining, which con-
tinued through the day and night, a cold,
drizzly rain; consequently the brethren could
not do much at splitting rails etc. There are a
hundred men assigned to this business, ten lay-
ing up rails, forty-eight to building houses,
twelve to each house; ten herding cattle, twelve
digging wells, ten building a bridge across the
river for us to pass on our journey west; ten or
twelve stocking ploughs and making drags,
five or six blacksmith shops, the remainder to
attend to the business of farming, etc."
	It seems that for two days there was not
much done on account of the rains, which con-
tinued incessantly day and night till Wednes-
day evening, when it cleared off pleasant. By
the last mail father had received a letter from
Bro. Joseph L. Heywood, at Nauvoo, announc
ing the sale of our place there for thirty-five
yoke of oxen, to which Horace wrote an an-
swer on the 28th.
	The next day he wrote: "A meeting was
called about noon in order to do some business,
necessary to fitting out an expedition over the
mountains. Bro. O. Pratt made an estimate
of the number of wagons, grain, implements
of farming, such as hoes, shovels, etc., that
would be necessary for one hundred men on
this expedition."
	"The first of May," Horace wrote, "we are
now engaged repairing the wagons that we in-
tend taking with us when we shall start again.
The weather has been so inclement since our
arrival that our stay here will necessarily be
prolonged beyond the time originally intend-
ed."
	He also speaks of his father and mother,
Prest. young and wife Mary Ann, and my
father and mother going to Lorenzo Young's
tent that same day to dine, where they had
quite a family meeting. While stopping there
there was not more than one or two days till
about the 13th that we did not have a shower;
some of the time hail and rain, and on the
night of the 5th had a heavy thunder storm,
and there was some sickness in consequence,
but we had very few deaths in our camp dur-
ing that part of our journey, for which we had
great cause to be thankful. Numbers of the
brethren, who had come that far with teams and
to drive, returned to Nauvoo.
	"Tuesday, 4th," Horace says, "one of father's
horses, on being driven up to-night, was dis-
covered to be very badly bitten in two or three
places on the head. We immediately resorted
to our family horse physician, the Delaware,
who has been veyr sucessful hitherto," but
on the 7th, it seems, the horse died, contrary to
their expectations. "This," Horace wrote, "was
owing to the inattention on the part of the
boys, who neglected to take care of him.
Father considers it quite a loss as it breaks up
one of his teams."
	"Friday, 8th.	*	*	Jacob Fra-
zier came in with five yoke of Bro. Kimball's
ozen and went to drawing rails this afternoon.
The brethren finished their fencing to-day,
having enclosed 300 acres, leaving a surplus of
10,000 rails; they have besides a sufficient
number of house logs cut to build 30 or 40
buildings. This afternoon Andrew Cahoon
came in from Nauvoo-brought the mail, the
5th number of the Eagle for Brigham, and the
news that Porter was arrested, while asleep, by
Backentos in Nauvoo for the murder of Wor-
rel—that he was taken to Carthage, stood trial
on the charge and was acquitted. He was no
sooner liberated, however, than he was taken
up on another accusation—that of threatening

[Column 3]
a man's life, and committed to Quincy Jail
there to await his trial."
	"The wife of Bro. Green, captain of a com-
pany of pioneers, died, and was buried here
yesterday."
	"Saturday, 9th. Beautiful day— about noon
I started out and got the cattle— put four yoke
on my wagon, three on Bro. Smither's and
horses to the carriage, and went out three or
four miles and encamped where our cattle have
been kept—took the little tent with us. Wm.
Kimball and King went with us and helped
us drive the teams. We got here about sun-
set. We are in a short distance of a hut
which the boys built the other day, where John
Forsgreen and Jacob Frazier stay nights.
There is a wolf's den about a quarter of a mile
from here, which Wm. found the other day—
the boys chased a wolf into it and put fire at
the entrance, but could not scare the wolf out,
and on repairing there the next day discovered
the sticks they had made it of carefully laid
aside. Beside Helen and myself there are six
of us, John, Jacob, Jeannette, Sister Smither
and her two children."
	"Sunday, 10th.		*	*	There were
some resolutions passed at the meeting—one
was, that the land which had been enclosed,
and all that pertains thereto, should be consid-
ered as belonging to the Church or Church
property, each man or family is allowed a cer-
tain portion of land to till, and if he neglects
it, it is to be taken from him and given to an-
other. Father Burt is to be left as president
of this Stake of Zion, assisted by two counsel-
ors. Jedediah Grant preached in the Gospel."
	This day the sky was cloudless and beauti-
ful, and I was happy because the few days
spent there were so quiet and peaceful, and I
looked forward with a feeling of dread to the
time that it must be broken in upon and again
be forced to mingle with the crowd and una-
voidable noise and bustle of a large camp. Our
tent was pitched on a gentle slope, and below
some distance away, was a crystal stream of
water babbling over the rocks down through a
little grove of trees and willows, where I ac-
companied Horace the next day, Sunday, to
fish, taking along our books to read. This
was his favorite pastime, and in which he in-
dulged every opportunity. This was the most
delightful spot we had seen, the whole land-
scape around us was lovely, they called it roll-
ing praierie, and it had such a variety of hills
and dales, all dressed anew in their bright vel-
vety robes of spring.
	the first morning I took an early stroll to
enjoy the scene, and I was almost enchanted as
I stood there alone gazing at the glorious sight
as the sun was peeping over the hills—and to
lend still more to the scene of enchantment
here came a beautiful fawn and also an aute-
lope, skipping fearlessly over hill and dale and
out of sight, with naught to disturb them nor
the peace and tranquility of my thoughts, but
the knowledge that the spell was so soon to be
broken.
	I was a romantic girl, not yet eighteen, and
naturally an admirer of the beauties of God's
handiwork, and I thought, like the "Minstrel,"
	"O nature, how in every charm supreme!
		Whose votaries feast on raptures ever new!
	O, for the voice and fire of seraphim,
		To sing thy glories with devotion due!"
	Next day another fishing excursion was tak-
en, where Horace caught a dozen or more.
These substantials were very acceptable, as we
had had no meat, except a little that had been
given to us and some we had borrowed a few
days previous, for a number of weeks, but had
subsisted principally on sea biscuits and that
sort of fare. When the sun did shine the heat
was intense, and the reasons for my remember-
ing it was that we were compelled to walk all
that was possible to favor the teams as they


were fast giving out, and the most aggravating
part was the slow progress that we made, it
taking us over three months to accomplish
what would have been a week's journey under
ordinary circumstances.
	Sometimes our camping place would be in
sight of the one that we had started from in
the morning, being on the prairie and having
to follow the crooked ravines, there being no
roads or bridges unless we stopt to build them.
The most trying part of the journey, at least to
me, was when we had to walk, and the scorch-
ing sun at times beating down upon us, until
my little strength and patience would be quick-
ly exhausted. There were times when we girls
would drop down by the roadside and vow that
we would not rise again till we saw the tents
pitched, then we would take a straight line to
the camp. I had not yet obtained sufficient
religion to assist me and as my strength failed
me so did my faith, but when the teams were
ahead our only alternative was to get up and
travel on. But after they decided to peddle off
such things as they could not take with them
over the mountains and we got more teams and
provisions, we were much more comfortable. I
shall never forget how I feasted at Garden
Grove upon my mother's first white bread and
fresh churned butter. I had been famishing
for a fortnight or more for the want of nour-
ishment, or the lack of appetite to eat such as
was set before us. At Garden Grove we had
our first trial at eating cakes made of parched
corn meal, one meal of which sufficed me.
At the beginning of our journey the crack-
ers went very well for lunch, but after laying
in the boxes, as they did through that long
siege of wet weather, they became more or less
mouldy and tainted with the pine wood, so that
the greater part were fit only to be thrown
away.
	I remember one evening at our pleasant
camping place, after leaving the main camp,
when our little circle had knelt for prayers, I
happened to bow by the bag of parched meal,
and the effect was so unpleasant I could not
centre my thoughts upon worship, so I arose
quietly and moved to the opposite end of the
tent. Some were considerably reduced in flesh
by this time. But at this place Bishop Miller
and a number of the brethren went out ped-
dling. The quadrille band, Bro. James
Smithers among the number, had gone on the
same business in order to make exchanges for
teams, flour, bacon, and other provisions,
which the camp stood in great need of.

To be Continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿NOTES AND NEWS.
 The Primary meetings for electing delegates
to the municipal convention will be held on
Monday, Feb. 4, in the several precincts. La-
dses, do not forget to attend these Primaries.

     The members of the Legislature, although
nearly all young men and inexperienced in leg-
islative work, are pushing their work forward
in committees quite steadily. According to reli-
able information, they are quite as energetic
in the performance of duties assigned them as
older members have been in the Legislature of
the past. Quite a number of ladies visit the
Legislature from time to time.

     Dr. Elizabeth Blackwell in a concise state-
ment against the “Contagious Diseases Acts"
made in the Hastings (Eng.) and St. Leonard's 
Times, says: “The object aimed at can never be
reached by crushing the weaker party—viz.,
the women. An honest attack must be made
on the stronger partner in vice, the paymaster,
the briber, or seducer—viz., the. man. Cor-
rupt men must be dealt with before you can
deal with corrupt women.


Julia Margaret Cameron, who died recently
at her lovely home in the Isle of Wight, be-
came famous in photography. Her heads of
Tennyson, Browning, Carlyle, Darwin, Hers-
chel and others, are the best probablyl ever ta-
ken of these men. Her secret was to place her
sitter far out of focus and subject the plate to-
an unusually long exposure.


IN MEMORIUM.

	I grieve to write you of the death of our beloved sis-
ter, Mrs. Ellen Madsen, president of the north ward Re-
lief Society of Ephraim. Sister Madsen died on the 15th
inst, and was buried on the 17th. The respect in which
she was held was evinced by the sisters of both wards
gathering at her residence, and from there walking in
procession behind the coffin which held the honored dead
to the meeting house, a distance of four blocks.
	The services were of a nature to comfort and cheer.
The opening prayer was offered by Bishop Dorius; the
speakers were Prest. C. Peterson, II. Beal, Bishop An-
derson, and Bishop Jensen, of Manti. Bishop Madsen,
of Gunnison, pronounced the benediction.
	The occasion was one of peculiar solemnity, there be-
ing three present about to become occupants of the si-
lent city, representing three stages of human life--
childhood, maturity and old age. Sister Madsen would
have been fifty-six had she lived until February 8th.
Death is but the entrance of life everlasting,
	The seed must be planted ere the flower can bloom,
but the grave has no power to hold the free spirit;
	Then death hath no sting, no vict'ry the tomb.
			AGNES S. ARMSTRONG.

	DIED, at Alpine, Jan. 2nd, 1884, Sarah Ann, beloved
wife of John R. McDaniel. Her death was caused by a 
fall, which occurred two weeks previous. Her suffering,
until within a few hours of her death, was most intense
She was a good, faithful Latter-day Saint, and had for
two years filled the office of a teacher in the Relief So-
ciety. She was greatly respected and beloved by her
many friends. Deceased was born in the State of Mis-
souri, Jan. 8th, 1847 and emigrated to Utah with her
parents when quite young, and has resided in Alpine for
the last twenty-five years. She leaves a husband and
three children to mourn her loss.
			MARIA ADAMS.


[Column 1]
For Sale at this Office.
BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW,
PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,	-	25c.	per	copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book, 40c.	“
POEMS, by E.R. Snow, Vol.-l, 	$1.00	
“ Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
of the author, bound in morocco, 1.25	“
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, — 1.50	“

DR. ELLIS B. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
Office and residence, 11th Ward, No. 31, Seventh
East Street.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.
A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C. 
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets, Brown Yarns, Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yams,	Wool Batting,
Shawls,	Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Limeys,	Casslraers,	Washboards,
Jeans,	Tweeds,	Brushes, Etc., Etc.

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East. 
Special Attention- given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies. 
AT TEASDEL’S
Will he found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS.
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

HENRY DINWOODEY.
FURNITURE,
WALL PAPER,
CARPETS,
FEATHERS, UNQUUIH, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUINS
AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY.

FAuerbach & Bro,
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION, AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ALL NATIONS.
VOL. 12			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15, 1884.				NO. 18


BIRTH-DAY SCRAP,
							---
	OR ANNIVERSARY TRIBUTE TO THE HONORABLE
				CHARLES W. PENROSE.

				BY ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.

	All hail the day!-- the day when mortal.Birth;
	C.W. Penrose introduced to Earth,
	Whose purpose, heart, and brain, are all combined
	To aid the upward progress of mankind
	He's one of those emergencies require,
	When grand events are destined to transpire.

	With inspiration from the Eternal Source,
	In lucid eloquence' magnetic force,
	He pleads the rights of man and woman kind
	With judgment, reason, fact, and truth combined.
	In the illustrious work of God and men
	He plies the strong twin-agents, speech and pen.

	Our friend and brother, may your useful life
	Be full of years-- your years, with blessings rife,
	Long may you live the sword of Truth to wield,
	Till Peace is crowned on Zion's battle-field--
	Live till the pure in heart are unoppressed--
	Yes, live to share the Saints' triumphaut rest,
	Long after Edmuuds Cullom,-- all their bilious crew
	Have doff'd their hats, and made their bow to you,
Lion House, Salt Lake City, Feb. 4th, 1884.


THE TWILIGHT PHENOMENON.

How oft in childhood's happy time,
	Beside the window low,
With baby brother on my lap,
	I watched the twilight glow.

Too soon for lamp or candle light,
	And yet too dark to see
To work or read the twilight was
	A calm, sweet hour for me.

How many bright and hallow'd thoughts;
	My youthful mind would catch,
While watching thus the shadows dim,
	Across the landscape stretch,

While purple, gold and amber clouds
	Adorned the western skies,
The earliest stars would softly peep
	Like smiling infant eyes.

With baby brothers grown to men--
	Now nestling in my arms--
Not mother's babies, but my own,
	Hath nature lost its charms?

Nay! woman's heart and hands and brain,
	Life's duties may employ,
Yet new love teaches her all good,
	More fully to enjoy.

And nature, too, more grandeur wears,
	Befitting well her age;
While in her book of books she writes,
	A long, long promised page.

In eighteen eighty-three and four,
	The twilight hour hath shown
A mystery, which the learned world,
	Gravely pronounced unknown.

Ah! how shall worldly wisdom find
	The things which God hath plan'd,
When only by His Spirit, e'en
	The meek shall understand?

This twilight mystery appears,
	A fire-light rising high;
At times, not only in the west,
	But over all the sky.

The "Day of Burning" doth approach,
	This sign is kindly sent,
To warn the wicked and the proud,
To speedily repent.

All those who watch for Christ to come,
	May see His way prepared,
And lifting up their hearts, rejoice
	These things He hath declared.

Salt Lake City, Jan. 19th, 1884.


SCRIPTURAL TESTIMONY.

	"And they asked Him, saying, Master, but
when shall these things be? and what sign will
there be when these things shall come to pass?
St. Luke, xxi chapter: 7th verse."
10th verse, "Then said He unto them:
nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom
against kingdom."
	11th verse. "And great earthquakes shall
be in divers places, and famines and pestil-
ences: and fearful sights and great signs shall 
there be from heaven, St. Mathew, xxvi
chapter.
	31st verse. "And He shall send His angels
with a great sound of a trumpet, and they shall
gather together His elect from the four winds,
from one end of heaven to the other."
	Now it seems by this language in  Holy Writ
that God's people would be gathered out from
all parts of the earth, to prepare themselves
for His  commandments, they were a dis-
tinct people from all others. The ancients
lived in this capacity for many generations.
The children of Israel did not mix with other
people not acknowledged by God as keeping
His laws. He gave them the mark of circum-
cision, that they might be distinguished from
all others, and to this day their tradition clings
closely to them. Yet many times they were
scattered abroad and taken captive by their
enemies, but this was on account of their great
rebellion. They turned away from the true
and living God to worship idols; but when they
turneda way from their sins He forgave them,
and they were a blest people, and lived within
His fold and the Lord was their Shepherd.
But when the good Shepherd came on the
earth and began to call His sheep and gather
them up they would not, neither would they
hear His voice, and He said unto them, St.
Mathew, xxiii chapter, 37th verse, "O, Jerusa-
lem, Jerusalem! thou that killest the prophets,
and stonest them which are sent unto thee, how
often would I have gathered your children to-
gether, even as a hen gathereth her chickens
under her wings, and ye would not."
	The gathering of the people of God has been
understood by them in all ages of the world.
John the Revelator alluded to it in the xviii
chapter, 4th verse. "And I heard another
voice from heaven, saying; come out of her my
people, that ye be not partakers of her sins,
and that ye receive not of her plagues."
	The Savior compared His people to sheep.
He said, "The sheep hear my voice, and the
voice of a stranger they will not follow." This
is a true semblance. The Shepherd has His
sheep within the fold, and the good Shepherd
says,"He leadeth them forth to pleasant pas-
tures."
	The Savior calls the Nephites His other
sheep and it is referred to by Himself in the
x chapter, 16th verse of St. John. "And other
sheep I have which are not of this fold: them,
also must I bring, and they shall hear my
voice, and there shall be one fold and one
Shepherd."
	Now read the Book of Mormon, 3d Nephi, (512
page), 16th and 17th verses. "This much did
the Father command me that I should tell un-
to them. That other sheep I have which are
not of this fold; them, also, must I bring, and
they shall hear my voice, and there shall be
one fold and one Shepherd.
	19th verse. "But verily I say unto you,
that the Father hath commanded me, and I tell
it unto you, that you were separated from
among their's because of their iniquity; there-
fore, it is because of their iniquity that they
know not of you"
	Also those who were led away by the hand
of the Lord into the north country, the same
as those who came to the continent they are
spokenof in the xvi chapter. Speaking of the
other tribes He says: But I have recieved a 
commandment of the Father that I shall go
unto them and that they shall hear my voice,
and shall be numbered among my sheep, that
there may be one fold and one Shepherd; there-
fore I go to show myself unto them."
	With regard to the twelve tribes in their
scattered condition the world is entirely igno-
rant; but the history written of them  in the
Book of Mormon gives us a knowledge of
them, and many other things, which the world
will remain in ignorance of unless they read
its pages and judge for themselves. I advise
everyone to read it; if you have not the book
purchase one and read it through. It is a true
history--this I bear my testimony to. I have
read its pages with great interest and delight,
knowing that it gives an account of the ed
man's origin, before his skin became black, and
after. It is a wonderful book, and the lineage
of its people kept so perfectly from generation
to generation, and also the time to mark events
so minutely kept, makes it the most interest-
ing book of the age. No one can read its pages
without being forcibly convinced of its merit.
Its preservation for so many centuries hid up
in the earth by its last writer, to come forth by
his hand to Joseph Smith to enlighten a dark
and benighted world; and he, Joseph Smith,
being blessed with the gift of translation, made
its pages clear as the noon-day sun, that all
who read may understand and have joy in its
remarkable record. Many would recieve a 
greater light if they would not neglect to read
its inspired pages.
	"Precious treasure, thou art mine,"
	Precious book thou art divine--
	For me to read and meditate,
	And all its joys to contemplate.

	Now it is great folly for men to lose their
lives exploring for the lost tribes: they are not
lost to their Heavenly Father, and in His own
due time He will cause the mountains of ice to
melt down at their presence, and He will lead
them back by His power, the same as He led
them away, for He hath a care and an eye
to all the workmanship of His hands. Our
opponents say, "Why do you do so and so?
Why do not you do as we tell you to? Re-
nounce your religion; take no notice of God's 
word; believe not in revelation, neither in the
gathering; stay where you are, and be one with
us and obey the law of the land." The law
or the new civilization, allows  houses of ill
fame. The Ten Commandments say, "Commit
not adultery." The law, as it is defined for us,
says, separate husband and wife; the Scripture
says, "What God has joined together let no
man put asunder," The law of Senator Ed-
munds, which has been declared constitutional,


takes away the right of franchise without
judge or jury, and the Bible says, “He that
judgeth a matter without hearing it is a fool.”
I have no privilege to vote, and I have broken
no law, my fore-fathers and fore-mothers were
among the first to settle America, and my
father fought in the war of 1812. I have an
independent mind because I was born in a 
land of freedom, and my rights are to believe
in the truth. MARY ANN M. PRATT.
Salt Lake City, Jan. 29th, 1884.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OUR TRAVELS BEYOND THE
			 MISSISSIPPI.
				____

	   BY HELEN BAR WHITNEY.
				____

	The evening of the 12th it clouded up and
rained some during the night.  Just at dusk
came father, Bro. Jedediah Grant, and their
families with others of the camp, with the loud
ge-ha's of teamsters and yells of herdsmen,
driving, unyoking and taking off their teams
and other like noises which brought confusion,
when the charm was broken, and lo, my bliss
had departed.  Next day we had rain and sun-
shine alternately through the day till evening,
when a tremendous cold rain storm came on
and lasted a good part of the night.  Bro.
Grant's tent was blown down in the gale.  Pres-
ident B. Young and company had passed us
that day.  Some of father's men who had been
out trading reached  camp that morning, bring-
ing 10 bushels of meal and 1,000 weight of bacon,
which these pioneers had earned.  Father had
purchased two wagons, and before starting from
Garden Grove our small one was exchanged
for a larger one, and this day they had some
sea biscuits taken out and articles of greater
weight put in to equalize the loads, making the
whole load about 1148 pounds, also another
yoke of oxen was added.  The same day Hor-
ace wrote:  "I fished a little again to-day, caught
a large cat-fish and two or three small ones
called pout."  According to his journal we
started Friday, 15th, and though the weather
was fair found the roads somewhat muddy; af-
ter travelling about five miles we met Bro.
James Smithers and the rest of the band re-
turning from their trading expedition, as also
Bishop Miller, with some of his company, who
had also been out trading—went on about six
miles further and encamped—the sun about an
hour high—on the edge of a ravine	*	*
having made eleven miles to-day.  Bro. Kim-
ball styles it the cream of all the encampments
we have hitherto had, in consequence of the
beautiful "rolling" prairie and the rich verdure
for our cattle that abounds in such plenty
around us.  Saw what is called the "Oregon
trail" to-day.	*	*	Dr. Rich-
ards is encamped with us to-night."
	The next day, according to the record, we
travelled about eleven miles and encamped on
the prairie on a stream which father named
"Crooked Creek."  The morning of the 17th
was cloudy and rained a little.  We travelled
about two and a half miles and found Presi-
dent Youug encamped on a small creek in a
valley. We went on a little way and pitched
our tents on the top of a hill, when father,
Brigham Young, Amasa Lyman, George A.
Smith and one or two others went ahead on
horse back to survey the road, and finding a
good place to camp about three miles ahead,
returned and concluded to go on for fear it
might rain.  We made about five miles that
day.  Bishop Whitney and family overtook us
at the place where we last stopped, and we were
rejoiced to see them.  He had lost some of his
horses and been detained at Garden Grove.
We had felt considerably worried about Moth-
er Whitney's health in consequence of her arm
which was gradually perishing away, and it
pained her so that it affected her whole system,
but we found her getting better and in pretty
good spirits, and also Bro. Joseph C. Kings-
bury, who had been quite sick.  Sister E. B.
Whitney (the present Editor of the Expo-
nent) was the faithful nurse and companion
of Mother Whitney in those troublous times,
and continued to be like a loving daughter to
her until she was laid in her last resting place.
Bro. Solomon Hancock came up the same day
bringing news that there were 200 tents pitched
at Sugar Creek of those that had crossed the
river since our departure.  They were four
weeks from Nauvoo.  Monday morning, 18th,
the brethren had to build a bridge before start-
ing and had to stop and build another in the
afternoon.  We travelled ten miles and en-
camped at evening in a grove on the brow of a
hill—a small bottom intervening between us
and the middle fork of the Grand River, which
abounded in fish, such as sun-fish and cat-fish.
Here we were to remain some time and make
another farm for the saints that were to follow
us.  This was called Mt. Pisgah.
	Horace wrote: "Tuesday, 19th.  This morn-
ing Bro. Wm. King and myself with six yoke
of oxen and one wagon started back to Garden
Grove, to bring up some provisions which we
expected to get of Bro. Yearsley.  Met Lyman
Whitney and Wm. Pitt; after going about ten
miles met Bro. Jacob Hutchison, who was in
search of his horse.  Lyman did not find his,
but went on without him; got to the farm Wed-
nesday about noon.  Bro. Yearsley not at
home—waited for him till Friday, when we
started back—the creeks all high, and some
scarcely fordable—reached home on Monday
evening, accompanied Bro. Markham, Cahoon
and several others—brought back the worth of
President Young's things in his wagon and our
own.	*	*	While we were gone
met a great number of emigrants just from
Nauvoo—some three weeks from there	*	*
in fact they are coming daily as fast as they
can get ready.  Bro. Kimball talks of build-
ing three houses here and Brigham two."
	While they were absent two Indians came
to our camp belonging to the Pottawatomie
tribe, who said they had lost their horses, one
of which had been caught by one of the com-
pany a few days previous—they were glad to
recognize the horse.  They had been sent as
messengers to their station on the west fork,
about fifty miles hence, to make arrangements
about paying for the cultivation of the land—
they returned, bringing word that the chief
himself would come to us and settle the terms
thereof.  Also learned through them that Ly-
man Wight was about one hundred miles
from there, but could not tell the direction.
Here Bishop Whitney's driver (Jacob Frazier)
was very sick, which Horace mentions—also
speaks of two deaths in Bishop Miller's com-
pany—Bro. Wm. Edwards' and Bro. Turley's
child.  He says, "Bro. Wm. Huntington has
been appointed president over those who re-
main here, assisted by Ezra T. Benson and
Charles C. Rich.	*	*	Bro.
Holman was the first man to put a plough into
the ground here, notwithstanding he does not
intend to remain.  Bro. John Taylor has just
returned from Nauvoo—he says that has got
to be a wicked place.  He makes the calcula-
tion that there are about six hundred wagons
on the way between here and Nauvoo—there
are all sorts of reports afloat there respecting
us, such as that we have been mobbed, etc."
	"Tuesday, 26th.  Tolerable fair to-day, built
a yard this after-noon to put our cattle in
nights.  Bro. Wm. Clayton came up this even-
ing—Mother Whitney's arm is getting better;
she has bound on it the skin of a rattlesnake
Bro. George Herring, a Mohawk Indian, ar-
rived here to-day, he having been sent for,
some time since, by the brethren.  He came
from Council Bluffs—says there are a number
of the brethren of Emmet's company waiting
for us at the state line, that some had taken''
jobs of work near a settlement of the Potta-
wattamie Indians, about two thousand in num-
ber; that the Indian agents, by the orders of
the governor of Missouri, are enjoined not to
let any whites stop among them, but more es-
pecially to prohibit the "Mormons" from doing
so, also that they, the Mormons, should not be
suffered to settle this side of the Rocky Moun-
tains.  Bro. Herring also told us that the
United States had declared war against Mexico.
We hail all such things as happy events, be-
cause when the Gentiles are embroiled among
themselves they have less leisure to persecute
the Saints of God."
	This may be considered, by some, an unkind
feeling, but note the orders received by those
agents concerning us, and the unnatural treat-
ment we had received from the hands of our
government, which should have protected and
succored us, but instead had allowed us to be
persecuted, harassed and driven from state to
state, and our men to be imprisoned and many
slain, and also innocent women and children
murdered in cold blood, and a whole people to
be exiled and driven into an almost unknown
wilderness, without the least inquiry or under-
standing of the facts concerning us, and all the
suffering that we were daily enduring in con-
sequence, could they realize this, and how sore-
ly we felt it, and then take it home to them-
selves, they would wonder at our patience, and
that we did not join handswith the poor In-
dians, who would have been too glad—or with
the Mexicans to fight against the nation, who
had driven us out from their midst, hoping as
they did and expecting that we would perish or
be scattered to the four winds, regardless of
our feelings and rights, and had it not been
that our people were true Christians we would
long since have followed our natural instinct,
as others have done, who, though professing so
much more enlightenment, have shown how
much they were lacking in that same spirit of
Christianity, which has ever governed and con-
trolled the Latter-day Saints, of whose inner
lives and faith they know nothing until they are
willing to become, as Jesus said, "Like  little chil-
dren, for of such is the Kingdom of Heaven."
	"Wednesday, 27th," Horace wrote, "on ris-
ing this morning found it raining.		*	*
To-day father presented me with a pistol.	*
Brigham, Heber, father and some others went
on horse back to find a suitable place for cross-
ing the river when they shall start—they re-
turned, having found a place where they in-
tend to build a bridge."
	"Thursday, 28th.  Somewhat cloudy, but no
rain.  One of Bro. Kimball's horses, Prince,
on being found and brought up from the
prairie this morning was discovered to be bit-
ten by a snake.  I went fishing, and found
Clayton at it also; caught quite a number of
sun-fish and pont, etc. * * The brethren here
are busily engaged, some ploughing and putting
corn into the ground, others building fences
and houses, making ploughs and ox yokes, etc.,
while the rest are herding the cattle." * * *
	"Friday, 29th.  Weather pleasant—the
brethren have nearly completed the bridge;
Bro. Brigham chastened the people last Sun-
day at meeting because a great many manifest-
ed a disposition to tie the hands of the Twelve,
as it were, neglecting to put in crops here and
wanting to go ahead, when they have not the
means to do so.  Bro. Brigham gave them the
choice of two things to do; either to fit them-
selves out and go ahead and leave the Twelve
here, or by using their utmost exertion fit out
the Twelve and let them go into the wilderness
and establish the Kingdom.  Bro. Kimball
said if the people chose to have the Twelve
stay here, they, the Twelve, would go into the
foreign countries and preach the Gospel and
raise up a body of people who would be will-
ing to abide by counsel and act as becomes the
Saints of God.			(To be Continued.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TO MRS. EMILY SCOTT

		     BY M. J. TANNER.  

There are thoughts, undefined, that arise to the mind
     That language may never impart;
There are hopes, that may bless like a tender caress,
     That ever entwine ’round the heart.

There are joys that have birth mid the flowers of earth,
     And ties that are shadowy still;
And if  ever we seek, for a bliss that’s complete,
     We must search with a heart and a will.

It is not that a strife for the comforts of life
     Our hopes and our energies chill,
It is not that we’ve sighed for a love that's denied,
     A friend that would cherish us still.

But the spirit may yearn, for a light that will burn,
     A goal that we never may win;
While we loose from our clasp, what we gladly would
	     grasp,
     And end where the task should begin.

If around us may shine, round our hearts to entwine
     The tendrils of love and esteem,
Then the bosom would glow with affection, to know
     That life has not gone like a dream.

But how often we’re led by the beacon ahead
     To grasp what we cannot attain; 
And sigh for the light that is shining so bright,
     Ere we sink to our slumbers again.

If the voice could go forth to the weak ones of earth, 
     To raise the down-trod and oppressed,
To comfort the sad, or to make the heart glad,
     We should feel that our labors were blessed.

If a gift that we hold is more precious than gold,
     And we joy in a love that’s divine,
'Tis a boon we would ask, in its favors to bask, 
Where the light of its genius may shine.

And how often a friend true assistance may lend,
     The weary and faint to uphold;
For a word of true love, comes like balm from above,
     And light to our vision unfolds.

Though feeble the light that is shining to-night, 
     I will hold to the task that is given;
And point to the star that is shining afar,
     Guiding to God—and to heaven.


BUCKEYES.
WHICH OF THE TWO SHALL VOTE?
“Well, Bess, I've been at the convention all
day, and I think we've made a ticket that will
suit the people. Our man from here got a good
showing,” said Harry Dyle, as he put on his
slippers and dressing gown and seated himself
comfortably in his arm chair.
"Ah, whom do you mean as the man from
here? I am glad of a good ticket,” said his
wife pleasantly.
"Isaac S-----was nominated for represents
tive.”
“IsaacS------! Harry, Dyle, you did not
surely nominate him !” said Mrs. Dyle with in-
intense scorn. 
“Of course we did, and he will make a good
run, too,” her husband replied, lighting a Cigar.
	“O, constancy, thou art a jewel,” said Mrs.
Dyle, “I think he would make a good run, and
the rest of you men should follow after with a
hop, skip and jump.”
“What the deuce is the matter? her hus-
band asked half provoked.
“If I remember rightly, Harry; a few weeks
ago you were for cleaning out the Mormons,
root and branch, because of their polygamy
and to-day you help nominate for represents
live a man who, right here in Ohio, practices
polygamy, or the next thing to it.” Mrs. Dyle
was becoming earnest.
	"His personal or domestic affairs have, no-
thing to do with him as politician,” said
Harry a little embarrassed. “What is the news;
anything going on here to-day?! he asked, as if
anxious to change the subject. 
“Nothing—only I lost something—some-
thing I prized, too,” Mrs. Dyle answered, turn-
ing aside her face that her husband should not.
see her smile.
“You—you—lost something? Not your watch
or your—” Harry was excited.
“No;” said she, “I lost confidence in my
husband as an upright, constant man. He,
strongly condemns a thing when done con-
scientiously and upholds the same thing if done
sneakingly.”
“Well, Bess, what should I have done? he
was on the ticket; it was not my doing alto-
gether. I don’t approve of Isaac’s way of do-
ing at all, you know,” said Mr. Dyle warmly.
“You were at the Primary meeting when the
ticket was made,” she said sententiously.
“Yes; I was; but I did not care to say any-
thing against a man chosen—”
“Well, I should have done so,” Mrs. Dyle
said. “I should have said out plainly, gentle-
men; the man who is to represent us before the
people of Ohio must be upright, pure, honest.
This man is not, and I will not support him. A
man who is not true to his wife will not be true
to any one; a man who is a sneak in domestic
life will sell his birthright for a mess of pot-
tage, whether that birthright be his party or
his state, and I object to such a representative.
That is what you should have said.”
“Oh, Bess, you draw it too fine; we can’t
stop these evils, so what’s the use of being so
conscientious?” He picked up a paper to read.
"Harry, you said the other day that an army
should be sent to clean those Mormons out.
You would spend thousands of dollars and
thousands of lives to clean out Mormonism—
polygamy, in Utah, while a small root of the
stock is nourished and encouraged, to grow
right here.”
“Oh, Bess, you talk just like a woman; they
never talk with any sense on political subjects;
let's change the subject before we both get, an-
gry. Isaac S______ will make a good enough
Representative; will get the party’s votes on
election day and will help to carry through
any measures proposed by the party,” said Mr
Dyle loftily.
“Your party has prohibition for one plank
in’ its platform—will your representative insist
on it being carried out? Harry, if I am a wo-
man, I have thought and read much on politl-
cal subjects, and I tell you, without wishing to
give offence, that had I the privilege of attend-
ing and assisting at these political primaries I
should use my influence for the perfecting of
our own laws, and their enforcement at home,
and not trouble myself about something away
off in Utah until I could positively know whe-
ther it is evil or not. Cast out first the beam
out of thine own eye, and then shalt thou: see
clearly to pull out the mote that is in ;thy
brother’s eve.”
Her husband was soundly asleep. So she
“picked up the evening paper which dropped
from his hands, and read over the report of the
proceedings of the morning session of the con-
vention.					EMILY SCOTT.


THE SIXTEENTH ANNUAL WASH-
INGTON CONVENTION

OF THE NATIONAL WOMAN SUFFRAGE
ASSOCIATION

Will be held in Lincoln Hall, Washington, D.
C., March 4th, 5th and 6th, 1884. Public ses-
sions will be held at 2 and 7:30 p.m. on each of
these days, and Executive Sessions, open only
to officers and members of the Association,
will be held daily at 10:30 a.m.
	All State and Local Suffrage Societies are
earnestly requested to send delegates with care-
fully prepared reports of work done, and re-
sults achieved, during the year 1883 in their


respective States; and all persons interested in
the enfranchisement of women, are invited to
attend the convention and participate in its de-
liberations.
	Among the speakers invited to be present
are Matilda Joslyn Gage, Isabella Beecher
Hooker, Rev. Olympia Brown Willis, Phoebe
W. Couzens, Harriette Robinson Shattuck,
Madam Clara Neymann, Belva A. Lockwood,
Mary B. Clay, Sallie Clay Bennett (of Ken-
tucky), Lillie Devereux Blake, Elizabeth
Boynton Harbert and Helen M. Gougar.
	The principal object of this Association,
from its organization, has been to secure to the
women of the several States and Territories na-
tional protection in the Citizens Right to Vote,
through a Sixteenth Amendment to the Na-
tional Constitution.
	The favorable reports of the Special Com-
mittees in both Houses of the 47th Congress,
lead us to hope, from the 48th, the final pas-
sage of the resolution now pending for the
submission to the several State Legislatures of
a proposition to so amend the National Consti-
tution, that it will prohibit the disfranchise-
ment of United States citizens on account of
sex.
	The satisfactory results of unrestricted Suff-
rage for Women in Wyoming Territory, of
School Suffrage in twelve States in the Union,
of Municipal and School Suffrage in England
and Scotland, of both Municipal and Parlia-
mentary Suffrage in the Isle of Man, with the
recent triumph in Washington Territory, the
constant agitation of the Suffrage question in
this country, and in England, and the demands
that women are everywhere making for larger
liberties, are most encouraging signs of the
times, and make this the supreme hour for all
who are interested in the enfranchisement of
women to dedicate their time and their money
to the success of this movement, and by their
generous contributions to strengthen those up-
on whom rests the responsibility of carrying
forward this beneficient reform.
	ELIZABETH CADY STANTON, President,
	SUSAN B. ANTHONY, Vice-Prest. at large,
			Riggs House, Washington, D. C.
	MAY WRIGHT SEWALL, Ch. Ex. Committee,
	405 N. Pennsylvania St., Indianapolis, Ind.
	JANE H. SPOFFOED, Treasurer,
			Riggs House, Washington, D. C.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	"It is understood that the reduction of the
public debt in January will amount to $11,800,
000."

	"The Russian Government has banished no
less than 165,000 persons to Siberia during the
past ten years."

	"The Woman's Journal will henceforth num-
ber among its occasional contributors Louisa M.
Alcott, Mary F. Eastman and Flizabeth Stu-
art Phelps."

	"—Miss Fannie Bloomfield is a Chicago girl
who recently made a musical debut at Venice
as a pianist of extraordinary ability."

	"Will somebody tell us if there is a chaos of-
unrocked cradles, undarned socks and button-
less shirts in Washington Territory—now that
the women vote?"

	"Miss Anthony's address will be, hereafter,
Riggs House, Washington, D. C." Her sister,
who has heretofore kept the Rochester home,
will spend the winter in Washington."

	"Falsehood is in a hurry; it may at any mo-
ment be detected and punished; truth is calm,
serene; its judgment is on high; its King com-
eth out of the chambers of eternity.—Dr Jos-
eph Parker."


140	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each s[-]uare, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $3.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications in
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, FEBRUARY 15, 1884.


[Column 1]
ANTI-MORMON MEASURES.

	The bills introduced into the present Congress
for the suppression of Mormonism and utter ex-
tinction of the order of marriage, misnamed
polygamic, are attracting almost universal at-
tention. Men and women, editors and journal-
ists, priests and teachers, who know nothing
scarcely of Mormon doctrine, give opinions on
the subject, and therefore those who do know
and are a quainted with facts bearing upon the
matter, should in justice to themselves and the
cause speak out.
	Mormon women are as well acquainted with
the practical workings of the much talked of
"system" as Mormon men. They have sacri-
ficed as much to help establish the doctrines
which they hold sacred, as their brethren. Can
Congress compel them to give testimony against
those whom they love and revere, as men of
God? It is useless to talk of such a law.
	Have not those who desire to compel women
to testify in court had a fair sample in the case
of Belle Harris, who was arraigned before the
court in Beaver, and when she would not speak
there sent to Salt Lake and twice brought before
the court here, and for the third time refused to
answer. Belle Harris was a young woman only
twenty-one with a babe in her arms, she refused
to tell the court who was the father of her
child, and she preferred to remain in the pene-
tentiary to acting against her own conscience.
There are thousands of "Mormon" women who
have the genuine pluck to do the same thing;
therefore, if this inquisitorial order of things is
to be established and carried out, one of the nec-
essities will be a penetentiary large enough to
hold these persistent, determined, plucky wom-
en and their little children. It will take a few
millions of dollars to carry on these courts and
build and support the prisons and guard houses,
and maintain the courts, etc., and the people of
the United States who are so high-minded that
they cannot allow "Mormonism" to flourish
any longer on American soil, will have to be
taxed to pay the bill.
	Good people, please allow a Mormon woman
to make a suggestion. In New York, Boston,
Philadelphia and Washington, as well as various
other large and flourishing cities, there are vast
numbers of unfortunate, misguided women,
they are poor and friendless, often in the dead
of night they throw their little ones into the
rivers, lakes and canals, and in the frenzy of des-
peration they commit all sorts of crimes; they
are the victims of the seducer and the libertine.
Many of them were once as pure as "the snow,
the beautiful snow"—has Congress any money
to appropriate for houses of refuge for these poor
outcasts, for founding asylums for their illegiti-
mate, helpless babes? Can Congress pass any
laws or enact any measures to prevent the se-

[Column 2]
dueer and the libertine from committing such
crimes, for are men not answerable for the sui-
cides of their victims and the crimes of [--]ticide
and infanticide that are becoming so common?
Does not this dreadful state of things call loudly
for reform? Is there not enough to do to make
clean the inside of the platter before they
stretch away over the Rocky Mountains to
cleanse the outside?
	No wonder the best women of the land are
lending their aid and using their eloquence to
cry against wickedness and abomination brought
about through drunkenness and debauchery; for
the broken hearts, the desolate hearths, the
wretched homes, testify how the demon of crime
is raging in this fair land of America. There
are other evils that demand the attention of
Congress, more subtle and more insidious than
the plural order of marriage, which is plain and
simple and in accordance with Scripture. Then
who are the men who are so exercised over the
sins of the "Mormons?" Are they free from
evil, and can they without blushing cast the
first stone? Are their skirts clear of stain,
their lives blameless, or are any like the man
who refused his daughter shelter or even refuge
in his proud and lofty mansion when he found
her about to become a mother, the victim of a
vile and wicked man, whom he, himself had in-
troduced into his home; this merciless father in
his haugthy ostentation applied to a woman a
known philanthropist to take his daughter and
hide her shame, or he would drive her from his
door, for he would not be dishonored; when
questioned by the lady as to his own innocence
of sin, bowed his head in shame and could not
answer, but vowed angrily he would not submit
to be questioned by a woman, while his burning
face and vehement passion told too well the tale
he would fain have hidden. Yet this inhuman
father swore he would horsewhip his young, del-
icate and beautiful daughter if she would not
leave his roof within a certain period, and her
mother was powerless to help her, unless in-
deed she had gone forth to share her misery and
ruin. This is no idle fiction, but was related to
the writer, with tears and sobs, by one of the
parties to the dreadful transaction.
	Surely the honorable members of the Con-
gress of the United States will never pass with-
out severely criticizing, correcting and modify-
ing such bills as are now before that august
body. Were such to be the case the principles
of our glorious country would be violated, and
the most serious results would certainly follow
such high-handed injustice to a part of the body
politic. One would think that the disfranchise-
ment of the men and women who had ever
been in plural marriage would be sufficient pun-
ishment, even retro-active justice going back to
Nauvoo, and excluding from voting women
who had been widows ever since the death of
Joseph and Hyrum Smith. This is really a
penalty and giving an extreme interpretation of
the Edmund's law; but it is not against plurali-
ty of wives that the war is being waged. That
forms the best pretext for "the liberal party" to
hinge upon; those who have watched the move-
ments of these people know better. There are
certainly some clear-headed, far-seeming men who
will stand up and defend the rights of citizens
of this far-famed land of freedom and religious
liberty, and although there may be some very
strong measures passed against this people dur-
ing the present session, yet the Lord will over-
rule all things for the advancement of His
cause, and the Latter-day Saints have nothing
to fear while they are in the path of duty.
	It is something to the credit of Senator Hoar
that he reports himself adverse to the clause in
the anti-Mormon bill he presented which ex-
cludes women from suffrage, and although the

[Column 3]
bill is a dreadful one as it stands, it seems im-
possible for it to pass in its present form. There
are, we trust, other members who will report
themselves adverse to other portions of the bill.


EDITORIAL NOTES
	On the evening of the 4th of February, a few
of the friends of the Hon. C. W. Penrose, Edi-
tor for Deseret News, Salt Lake City, gathered at
his residence in the 9th Ward to join with his
family in celebrating his birthday. There were
about thirty guests, among them Gen. D. H.
Wells, Bishop Samuel Woolley, Sister E. R.
Snow Smith, Bro. and Sister Horne, Sister Zina
D. H. Young, Bro and Sister Whitney, Bros.
George H. and T. E. Taylor, with their wives,
Drs. Pratt and Barney, and others.
"Only a Girl," was recited by Miss Mattie Horne
in a very feeling and impressive manner.
This young lady has a good voice and an easy,
unaffected style, which is quite pleasing to the
listening.		*		Bro. Penrose responded to
the good feeling and kindly sentiments express-
ed by those who had addressed him in a most
interesting and happy manner.
	During the evening he was presented with a
very pretty, ornamental inkstand, with gold pen
and pencil, and a few words of congratulation
from one of the ladies present. It was a simple
trifle, yet one appropriate from the ladies who
gave it. Bro. Penrose has been accredited with
being the woman suffrage champion in former
legislatures, and in political circles generally. He
made a very able speech in favor of the bill to re
move the word male from the statutes of the
Territory in 1880. A bill which after considera-
ble discussion passed both houses and was lost
because of the Governor refusing his signature.
	Bro. Penrose has been in the Church ever
since he was a boy and has spent much time
upon missions abroad as well as in the home
missionary field, and for many years has been
constantly employed in journalism, in which he
has been eminently successful. He is also well
known as a poet in particular his hymn, "O, ye
mountains high," being a favorite one wherever
the Gospel has found its way. Long may he
live to proclaim the truth and battle against er-
ror with the pen, which in the hand of so gifted
and inspired a writer is far mightier than the
sword.
	THE Unity Club Ball in the theatre on the
evening of the 27th of January was a most de-
lightful affair. President John Taylor and
President George Q. Cannon were both present
and seemed to enjoy the dancing as much as
any of the young folks. The committee were
on the alert to see that everything was in order,
and although no round dancing was permitted,
yet the young folks were as jubilant as possible.
The music was excellent, and although the la-
dies chose partners, it being a leap year party,
we doubt if any gentlemen were alighted who
could be persuaded to dance at all. The club
has been very successful in getting up entertain-
ments, and indeed it has become proverbial that
whatever they undertake is well done; much
credit, however, is due to the able counsel and
suggestions as well as active energy of Gen. H.
B. Clawson who is indispensible and indefatiga-
ble on such occasions.
	The President's Parties. Two of the most
notable social events of the present season have
been the parties for the Bishops given in the So-
cial Hall in this city, Tuesday and Friday even-


ings, February 5 and 8. The first, February 5,
was given on the anniversary of the birth of one
of the first Bishops in the Church, Newel Kim-
ball Whitney, who would, had he been living,
have completed on that day his 89th year.
	These parties were a marked success in every
respect, and the most kindly feeling seemed to
inspire all who participated. The Bishops are a
class of men who deserve recognition and con-
sideration; their labors are arduous and often un-
appreciated, and it is but right to give honor
where honor is due. This courtesy from the
President of the Church will be remembered
hereafter with grateful appreciation.
	The supper, or rather dinner, served on both
these occasions was superb, and the table mag-
nificently laid. Flowers and fruits were artisti-
cally arranged, making the whole appear more
like the banquet of a sunny southern land than
the once desolate, snow-capped Rocky Moun-
tains. Who would have believed even twenty
years ago that fruits and flowers could have or-
namented our tables in the dead of winter. The
dinner itself was delicious. Every dish seemed
seasoned to the taste, and those who served
were most attentive and polite. All was quiet,
orderly, and well arranged. The parties opened
at five with prayer and closed with benediction
at half past eleven.

	"REPRESENTATIVES WOMEN OF DESERET," a
book of 140 pages, is for sale at this office, $1.00
per copy. The book is by Mrs. Augusta Joyce
Crocheron, and contains a sketch of Sister E.
R. Snow Smith, Zina D. H. Young, Phebe
Woodruff, Presendia L. Kimball, M. Isabella
Horne, Hannah T. King, Elmina S. Taylor,
Bathsheba W. Smith, Helen Mar Whitney and
others.

	THE secretaries of the several branches of the
Relief Society in Salt Lake Stake, also the Y.
L. M. I. A. and Primaries are requested to pre-
pare their reports for the quarterly conference of
these societies, which will convene about the
middle of March.

	THE Secretaries of the several Stakes of Zion
of Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary
Associations are requested to prepare their var-
ious reports and send to the secretary of the cen-
tral organization of the Relief Society and the
other Associations.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 141


AN INDIGNANT AMERICAN WOMAN.

	I have looked long and earnestly for some one
of the male sex (outside of this Church) who
thinks that a woman is a person and worthy of the
franchise. I said one of the male sex, but I
should not have made such a sweeping assertion,
for there are some honorable exceptions (God
bless them!) to the rule and it has always been
a marvel to me, and, indeed, it passes my com-
prehension how men who profess to be intelli-
gent can be so blind, it looks to me so natural
that woman should be as good and enjoy the
same privileges as men. Why, they are the
mothers of men. The very best of men have
the best of mothers, and some of them are will-
ing to acknowledge that their mothers did them
some good, but the majority of them, one would
think from their tone, had no mothers.
	Now, there is a great deal said about Mormon
men oppressing Mormon women, enslaving
them and a great deal more of that kind of
nonsense, which is to us very amusing, for we
know better, and we know that those who origi-
nate such stories know better, for those same
men (Mormon men) gave us the franchise, and
now those men who would so us such great ser-
vice (in their minds) would like to see it taken
away from us, and yet they love us; have they
not proven their love for us in many ways? Are

Column Break

they not always importuning Congress to do
something in our behalf, if it is only to get
them to pass laws to compel our fathers and
husbands to cast off their plural wives and child-
ren about as they do theirs? They accuse Mor-
mon men of abusing their wives and treating
them like "cattle," when the facts are we have a
great ideal more liberty, and our rights are bet-
ter protected than any other women that we
have any knowledge of. There are Mormon
men, of course, that are no better than other
men, but where this is the case they have neg-
lected their privileges, for the Gospel, as re-
vealed to Joseph Smith, is calculated to make
bad men good, if they will repent of their sins,
and good men better. We expect  them to be
better than other men, and if they live up to
the requirements of the Gospel they will be, else
what is the Gospel for, if not to elevate man-
kind and prepare them to enjoy the society and
dwell in the presence of their Creator, our Hea-
venly Father? Well, if they ever get there I
wonder if they would not feel lonely if there
were no women there, and yet we are not
thought good enought to go to the polls where
they go. Paul said, "the man is not without
the woman, and the woman is not without the
man in the Lord." Now, I should not be sur-
prised to see the wives of those men who so
persistently refuse to grant to women their
rights, turn around after a while when they see
that the Mormon men are the only ones who
are disposed to treat them fairly, and fulfil the
prophecy of Isaiah, recorded in the 4th chapter,
in which he says: "And in that day seven-wom-
men shall take hold of one man, saying, we will
eat our own bread and wear our own apparel,
only let us be called by thy name to take away
our reproach." One would think it had almost
come to be a reproach." One would think it had almost
come to be a reproach to be a woman. It is pit-
iful to see such men placed where they can have
the power to deny people their rights, it seems
to me that they should be confined to a place
where they could do the least harm and that
was better suited to their advanced ideas than
the halls of Congress, or positions of trust in
this great republic of free America, namely, a 
lunatic asylum. Well, perhaps I have said
enough upon this subject, for it is one that is
calculated to raise the blood of '76 to boiling
point if engaged in too freely; and I desire to
keep cool and not exercise myself unnecessari-
ly.								RUTH.
	Feb. 1st., 1884.


[Column 1]
MY EXPERIENCE AND OBSERVATION.

DEAR EDITOR:
	Hardly feeling capable, yet I will endeavor to
write a few lines to our worthy little paper, the
EXPONENT. I have been a subscriber to the EX-
PONENT for about four years, and I can truthful-
ly say I never was so interested in a paper in all
my life; it is highly appreciated in our family,
my husband and I read it with great interest; it
makes me feel good when I observe the interest
our sisters are taking in bearing their testimo-
nies to the truth of this Gospel, and taking such
great interest in our paper. It makes me feel,
dear sisters, that I would like to have a voice
with you, as I know this work is of God and not
of man. This is the first attempt that I have
made for publication, so if I don't do as well as
the rest of my sisters you will excuse me, but I
will write just what the spirit dictates, for I be-
lieve we ought at all times to be dictated by the
Holy Spirit what to say and do. Dear Sisters,
what does our religion teach us? It teaches us
to be honest, pure, virtuous, holy, and every-
thing that will elevate us to a noble life. Then
it pays us, my sisters, to live the lives of true
Latter-day Saints. It pays us to observe the
will of the Lord and keep His commandments,
whereby we will be blessed spiritually and tem-
porally. The Bible says, he that knoweth the
will of the Father and doeth it not shall be beat-
en with many stripes. Then, sisters, let us try
to overcome our weaknesses so that the spirit of
peace and harmony will dwell in our habitations

[Column 2]
and then the sterner sex will be able to over-
come their weaknesses, for the Lord requires a
people that will be humble before Him so that
He can bestow light and knowledge at all times,
and He will grant us the desires of our hearts
and will help us to overcome our weaknesses so
that we will never speak any harsh words or do
any thing that is displeasing in the sight of
God.
	I know there are great blessings to be derived
from paying an honest tithing and paying our
donations for the poor, and in erecting holy tem-
ples to the Lord we are blessed spiritually. This
I can bear a faithful testimony to, for I have
proven it. I think it a great privilege, my sis-
ters, to be living in this great and eventful age,
where we can, by living faithful to our cove-
nants, officiate in those holy temples for the liv-
ing and the dead. I thank the Lord every day
I live for His blessings towards me and my fam-
ily, and as a people for the peace we are en-
joying here in the valleys of the mountains. It
makes my heart ache when I read of the des-
truction and destitution that is going on in the
world. We can see the predictions of the proph-
ets coming to pass more every day we live.
Then this ought to make us live nearer to the
Lord. I think we as a people ought to feel won-
derfully blesses; we ought to more greatly enjoy
our religion here than we did in she old country,
as here we have the President of the Church
and the twelve Apostles to instruct and teach
us the things of God, and if we will only observe
the teachings we receive from time to time I
know that our reward will be sure.
	I feel thankful that I am a member of the
Relief Society of the Second Ward of Logan.
Our worthy president, Sister Ballard, is a faith-
ful, good Latter-day Saint, who, with her coun-
selors, Sister Larsen and Smith, is striving at
all times to teach such things to the sisters as
will build them up, and show them the truths of
life and salvation. We have real good meetings
and the Spirit of the Lord prevails in our midst.
I always feel greatly blessed by attending our
meetings. Of course, at times a mother with
small children is kept at home, especially in the
winter time, when it is not wisdom to expose
our little darlings to the severity of the weath-
er, for the Lord has given them to us to take
care of, and if we do not He will call us to ac-
count for not doing so. I never let work keep
me at home, for I accomplish much more by at-
tending my meetings than I do by staying at
home, for I am blessed spiritually as well as
temporally.
	A few weeks ago we had an annual meeting
in the schoolhouse; we had with us the Presi-
dent of the Stake, Sister Benson, and her two
counselors; had a very interesting meeting, and
I know if we sisters will put into practice the
teachings we received, as I know they are true,
we will be received in the celestial Kingdom,
and dwell with God our Father. I do not give
this information in as a secretary of the Relief
Society, but merely as a member of the society,
as it makes my heart rejoice when I think and
ponder over the goodness of God and the bless-
ings He bestows upon us from day to day, and
He will continue to bestow more upon us if we
will only obey His laws and keep His command-
ments. I know that we as wives and mothers
have a great mission to perform; we can accom-
plish much and do much good in raising our
families in the fear of the Lord; if we will only
be prayerful and faithful; teach our children
how to pray; ask the blessing on the food
in the absence of the father; that when they
are sick they will have no use for doc-
tors, but will call for the administration and
have faith; even faith from little children avail-
eth much; this I have experienced.
	There is a little circumstance that happened a
week or two ago to my little boy that I will re-
late. He will be six years old next month: he
was playing in the yard and fell on a broken
bottle and cut his leg; it was quite a bad cut for
the time, the wound laid open and the flesh hang-
ing out. Of course, mother like, I was fright-
ened; he was crying, but the first words he said
to me were, "Ma, I don't want no doctor to fix
my leg." So I said, what do you want, Charley?
He said he wanted some oil. What oil, I said.
Of course I knew that he meant consecrated oil.
That will make me better. I applied the oil and
in half an hour he was up running around again
I was afraid it would start bleeding again, but
it did not. It was astonishing how it healed.
This shows that he has great faith in the oil and
he will drink the oil like water. I always use
them to it from their infancy, and I know it
does them good. This little circumstance makes


me think more than ever of my b y; and how
thankful we ought to feel to our Heavenly Fa-
ther for our precious jewels, when we can ob-
serve the light and knowledge He bestows upon
them, and will continue so to do if we will only
keep His commandments and strive to teach
our children to do the same. There are many
circumstances that I could relate that have hap-
pened in my own family where the hand of the
Lord has been made manifest wonderfully. One
night I was awakened with my baby burning
with fever; she would not notice me; she was
about 16 months old. My husband got up and
brought two of the Elders to administer to her
with him, for I always believe in the father
taking a part. When they took their hands
from her head she looked up to me and smiled
and said, "me," and then looked around to the
brethren and smiled, as much as to say, I feel
better. She soon got well.
	Oh, sisters, when we have such experience as
this we ought to feel it a pleasure and a great
privilege to serve the Lord with all our might, 
mind and strength; and oh how much we do
need to in this mortal sphere of life, where the 
evil one is always trying to lead us into by and
forbidden paths. There are none of us who feel
better than when we  are walking in the path of
duty, for the path of duty is the path of safety.
And how happy we ought to make our homes,
so that the sweet intercourse of the Holy Spirit
will always be in our habitations, that when we
call for the brethren to administer to any of our
family they will know that our families are uni-
ted and encouraging the Holy Spirit in their
midst, for they will feel the influence while they
are administering, and the results we know will
be good, for the Lord's house is  a house of order,
and not a house of confusion; so says the Bible.
And we want to make ourselves as near like the
Lord as possible. A wife or wives living in har-
mony and being united with the husband and
the husband with them the children will be the 
same, and they will be able to do much good
and accomplish much. Their homes will be al-
ways cheerful, and any spare time the husband
has after his day's labor is done he will always
find comfort at home, he will never seek for
other places to pass his time, but he will ever
feel it a pleasure to be at home with his family.
I know that if a wife loves her husband she will 
make home as cheerful and pleasant as possible.
We have only once to live a lifetime, and it
pays us better to live it properly and prepare
ourselves to live happy in the world that is to
come by living happy together; we can live our
religion better; we can live nearer to God, for
one will help the other; we will be able to ob-
serve all His laws and keep all His command-
ments, for union is strength; if either of us have
any faults, which we all have, let us point them
out to each other in kindness and meekness, for
a kind word will never die, and it will take bet-
ter effect. Let us not speak harshly to each
other, by doing this we will be able to observe
that we are taking interest in each other and
working for each other's benefit. Our children
will also partake of the same influence and they
will be more united.
	Well, my dear sisters, I hope we will be
prayerful, obedient, be true to our covenants,
and be able to discern the good spirit from the
bad--attend to all our duties and live the lives
of true Latter-day Saints, that when we have 
finished our career here upon the earth we will
be brought back and dwell in the celestial king-
dom with God our Father.
	This is my earnest desire. From your sister
in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day 
Saints,			EMMA J. BLUMMEL.
	Logan, Feb. 14th, 1884.


142	﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[1st column]

		A REFUTATION.
	The attempts of Mrs. Angie Newman to rep-
resent, or rather, misrepresent the state of Mor-
mon society in Utah to the ladies of Cincinnati,
produced a great wave of disgust and indigna-
tion in the breast of at least one of the women
whom she so vilely scandalized, and were it
not for the fact that many unthinking people,
who have had no opportunity to learn of us as
we really are, might be led to take her very
unreliable information for the truth and be
grossly deceived thereby, the accounts of her
labors would produce from me no more than a
contemptuous smile-- but in simple justice to
myself and the thousands of pure, virtuous,
and noble women whose reputation she has

[2nd column]
sought to drag down into the deepest mire, I
feel justified in giving expression to my own
views and experiences of a Mormon plural wife.
	Had Mrs. Newman been as wise and cunning
as she has proven herself to be vicious and un-
principled she would have chosen subjects more
hidden in their nature, for those upon which
she sought to enlighten the public mind are
most easy of investigation, and thousands of
Gentiles who have been most kindly and hos-
pitably entertained in Mormon homes, can tes-
tify that her statements are as false as they are
wilful. Many writers whose reputation for ve-
racity is quite as well established as that of
Mrs. Newman have treated upon affairs in
Utah in positive coutradiction to all her "reli-
able information"--they were people of normal
brains and clear judgment, and were not
swayed by prejudice and, while holding no
sympathy with our religious views and under-
standing not the principles which gave birth
and nourished the wonderful structure of Mor-
monism, still they were honest and brave
enough to acknowledge that a marvelous work
and a wonder really existed, and were just
enough to seek information from the firm sup-
porters of the system which they aimed to rep-
resent. They did not rely upon the idle stories
told in the street, nor seek the views of apos-
tates whose light had become darkness, and
Gentiles who were here to make money and
knew nothing about our principles and cared
less; they knew that our virtues were not to be
learned from our enemies, and our people hon-
or and respect the true gentlemen and ladies
who have spoken the truth about them. It is
strange that the would be popular and notori-
our lecturerer with all her investigations did not
discover, that many of the investigations did not
discover, that many of the apostates were
among the wealthiest of the community, and
have remained here for years unmolested; there
is not the slightest necessity for their remain-
ing here unless they desire to do so; the Mor-
mons do not prevent them from fleeing to
climes more congenial; as for the poor of this
class, their reported cries of fear and prayers
for deliverance would long since have ceased
to howl through the land had some of the
would be philauthropists tried as hard to liber-
ate those who wished to escape as they have
tried to persecute those who wished to remain.
	The fact is, that Gentiles and apostates know
that they are safer here than they would be in
any other part of self-righteous Christendom, but
they are not as free to introduce their unright-
eous practices and establish saloons, gambling
hells, and houses of prostitution and assigna-
tion-- hence they feel in bondage and many
of them leave the country. As for woman's
bondage and galling chains, they never existed
only in the depraved imagination. I was born
and raised among this people; yes, reared in a
home where prayers ascended from the family
altar night and morning, and where an atmos-
phere of care and tenderness pervaded and
bound together the family circle. I have been
free to think and act upon my own agency--
have attended worship in the Sabbath schools
and churches of the various denominations,
and have read much of the Christian literature
published in the world; have mingled in Gen-
tile society and have had opportunities of mar-
riage where I could have been rescued from
Mormon influences and supposed bondage and
degradation, but I chose to follow  dictates
of my own conscience and adhere to those
principles which I knew to be revealed from
heaven; and while I of my own free will and
choice accepted the state of a plural wife, be-
lieved by the world to be the most appalling 
condition of woe and wretchedness in which a
woman can exist--I declare that all the sorrow
that has crushed and blighted my life is the
fruits of Gentile influence.
	My early childhood's home was bright
and happy until a demon clothed in

[column 3]

Gentile garb, schooled in all the subtle
arts and fascinations of Gentile principles
entered and cast his poisonous, withering
breath upon the scene. Stealthily he
sowed the seed of discontent, his oily, decep-
tive tongue pictured a home of ease and wealth
beyond the poverty of the newly settled desert;
his sweetly whispered compliments sought their
way through woman's vanity to woman's heart,
encouraged by the first sign of attention he ea-
gerly pursued his victim, day by day weaving
a snare of temptations hard to resist, till, oh
fatal weakness! the wife and mother forgot her
holiest truth, and urged on by irresistible pow-
ers of persuasion, she fled from Utah with her
vile deciever, and finally, destroyer. The vil-
lian married his victim, but he who ruins an-
other man's home will never find happiness in
his own. A sad and pitiful storu was soon
told. Less than three years of bitter anguish
and remorse, unavaling repentance and man's
cruelty, taunts and neglect, laid the broken
heart of a young, talented, but misguided,
Mormon wife in a lone grave, far away from
all that was dearest and best on earth. this
was the price of freedom offered by one, bitter
against the Latter-day Saints, and plural mar-
riage in particular. This is the plan advised
by the prominent missionaries who seek to lib-
erate the wives of daughters of this people.
	Not long since a circumstance came under
my notice which forced me to exclaim, as I
many times have done before, than God I'm
a plural wife! A young girl of Mormon par-
entage was wooed and wo by  respectable
appearing and self styled single yonng man,
hailing from the west. All appeared fair and
bright, the young wife felt that her life long
happiness was secured, and looked hopefully
and trustingly into the future. One child
was born, and soon afterward the husband
went to a distance to obtain employment--one
year passed and no news came from the man
who had vowed eternal devotion--then came
authentic word that he had decieved and led
to the altar another bride. Closely following
thi news, came that of a deserted wife and
family in the east. Letters of inquiry were
written, and in  came letters from wife
number one, with heart-rending details of cruel
desertion and suffering, long years of watching,
waiting and anxiety, only to learn of man's
heartlessness and treachery; and the eye that
could have witnessed the agony of wife num-
ber two as she rocked herself to and fro,
clutching the unmistakable proofs of the vil-
liany of him who had deliberately made her an
illegal wife and branded her child in the eyes
of man as illegitimate, could never again look
 upon a plural wife with pity. No, it is 
not the wives and children of the Latter-day 
Saints who need pity, there are thousands of
others who are the victims of men's deception
and cruelty in this glorious land of America,
who are suffering for sympathy and sustenance.
And I would respectfully suggest to Mrs. New-
man that she devote the energies of her phil-
anthropic soul in raising means to support the
wives and educate the children of the unprin-
cipled men who have come to this terrirtory and
either married only to abandon or deceive and
ruined many a trusting woman who might
have found happiness and honor but for their 
vile influence. There are many such victims
scattered throughout Utah, and if Mrs. New-
man saw any sorrowful, dejected looking wom-
en and neglected children they must have been
that class, for the Mormons are proud to ac-
knowledge, educate and treat with care and
tenderness their own wives and children, and
considering the magnitude of such a responsi-
bility more could not reasonably be  required
of them.
	Will some of the energetic Christian mission-
aries search out and keep these unfortunates?
If so they will find a wide field for usefulness.


and their sympathy will not he misapplied. In
conclusion I will add that I have had years of
experience in plural marriage and do solemnly
testify that I have been so happy and content-
ed with my husband and his kind, affectionate
family that I have never once seen a suitable
moment for regret, but some will ask, Are
there not trials in that order? Certainly there
are, and are there not trials in monogamy?
Ask the records of the divorce courts. Why
not petition Congress to abolish all systems of
marriage because people have suffered in it?
The exercise of evil passions, selfishness, jeal-
ousy, envy, and malice, will cause troubles in
every condition ol life—where the weaknesses
of humanity are allowed to predominate sor-
row follows. There is no greater field for the
exercise of all that is pure, noble and divine in
woman’s nature, and the truer the woman the
more happiness she will see in that order. Aside
from all reasonable arguments of a physical
nature (and there are many in its favor) we
know that God has again spoken from the
heavens and commanded His children to obey
that law. We accept this knowledge in our
faith, consequently there cannot be any com-
pulsion. Woman is perfectly free to make
her choice of a husband and when she does so
understandingly and prefers some honorable,
virtuous protector, even though he has other
wives, has she not the right guaranteed by our
glorious Constitution to life, liberty, and the
pursuit of happiness? Congress says we shall
find these treasures as it dictates our own con-
science, shall not dictate, but God has spoken;
we have heeded His voice and look to Him
for protection.		A MORMON WIFE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 143


[Column 1]
WOMAN'S VOICE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I have had a desire for some time to write a
few lines for your valuable paper, as I feel in-
terested in the youth of Zion, being President
of the Young Ladies’ Association of this
place. I feel it my duty, and consider it an
honor to teach and instruct my young sisters
in the principles pertaining to their welfare
and advancement in the Kingdom of our
Father. When we consider our condition as a
people, and the many blessings we enjoy, we
have all reason to rejoice, and we ought to
thank the Lord every day that we live, that we
have apostles and prophets in our midst to
teach us His mind and will concerning us as a
people. We ought to serve the Lord more
faithfully in the future than we have in the
past. I feel that we have been too careless
about our duties as true daughters of Zion. I
fear we do not value our privileges as we might,
The Mutual Improvements Associations are
doing a great deal of good; they are the means
of stirring us up to a sense of our duties. The
Lord has promised if we will be faithful in the
discharge of our duties, and humble ourselves
before Him, He will overule all things for the
good of His people.
	The whole nation, seems to be plotting
against us as a people. In the halls of Con-
gress, in the pulpit and in secret combinations,
though we need not fear them if we live up to
our privileges and the requirements of the
Gospel. This Church has been persecuted
from the very first. They have slain the Proph-
et and Patriarch, and expelled the Saints from
the States; yet the work of God does not cease.
Jesus says, "Rejoice and be exceeding glad, for
great is your reward in heaven, for so persecu-
ted they the Saints and all the holy prophets
that were before you." If we live our religion
with uprightness before the Lord we will have
nothing to fear, for the Lord has power to take
care of His own. We read that He says He
will have a tried people, even as gold tried
seven times by fire. This special legislation

[Column 2]
and secret combinations ought to have the ten
dency of making us live nearer to the Lord, for
He has promised if we will draw near to Him
He will draw near unto us.
	Our little town is somewhat isolated, though
we look forward to our quarterly conference
with the anticipation of having a good time.
I feel interested in the welfare of Zion, and
wish to raise my voice in the defence of this
great work.
	Our association has been organized three
years the 9th of last December; there has been
a vast improvement since that time. We are
writing a small paper, which is read once a
month in our meeting. We hold our meetings
every Tuesday evening, which are well attend-
ed, and we have a good time. Not wishing to
be tiresome I will close, with kind wishes and
success to the EXPONENT.
					SUSANNAH HEINER.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Grantsville is seldom heard from—the rea-
son is probably because note-worthy incidents
seldom occur here. It is a quiet, cheerful re-
ligious, temperate, industrious, little place.
There is nothing note-worthy in these adjec-
tives in this fast age. By the way, we are
famed for our hospitality.
	We have had a pleasant time during the holi-
days, with theatres, concerts, lectures and balls.
Auxiliary in making our town pleasant is our
music, instrumental and vocal; we are blessed
to an unusual degree in that respect. We had
a pleasant "Thanksgiving social festival" in
the Social Hall a few days since, gotten up in
quite a commendable style by our pleasure-lov-
ing community. Music by the orchestra band,
also other instrumental music; songs, speeches,
recitations, essays and anecdotes, interspersed
with dancing, which is not so popular as in
days of yore, as the people seem to be cultivat-
ing the head more, than the feet now-a-days.
Supper in the meeting house—having table-
room and accommodation to seat 216 at once.
On the following day we had a children’s picnic
party; 400 children participated in the dance,
and partook of the good things. The whole
affair was indeed enjoyable.
	Round dancing is discarded entirely, very
much in opposition to the inclinations of the
young people, who submit quite gracefully and
quietly to it, as it is the wish of the authorities
to do so. Owing to the mild, open winter our
Sabbath School, Primary and other meetings
are very well attended, also the day schools.
There has been a Methodist School started here;
it not being very well attended, in time probab-
ly they will be frozen out.
	The health of the people is good. A good
spirit universally predominates, and all glides
along prosperously and delightfully.
								R. C. W.
	Grantsville, Jan. 20th, 1884.

BLUFF CITY, Jan. 9th, 1884.

DEAR EDITOR:
	In answer to yours of Nov. 30th we wish to say
we were very pleased to hear from you in con-
nection with Sister E. R. S. Smith, also to find
that we are not entirely forgotten in this far off
country, as we have almost thought sometimes.
Not hearing anything in the Exponent con-
cerning the Relief Society in this part; there-
fore we are pleased to get a few words of
counsel and instruction from you.
	It will be almost beyond our expectations to
have the pleasure of seeing any of the sisters
from head-quarters visit us here, as we are so
isolated that had it not been for the Deseret
News and our excellent little paper, the Ex-
ponent, we should almost fancy ourselves sep-
arated from the Church, but, however, we feel
like attending to our duties as best we can, and
as a rule union prevails in our midst, and all
are trying to do their part, as we wish our

[Column 3]
name in every good cause. You of course
know nearly our circumstances in hearing that
we are comparatively a poor people, and most-
ly young, but we are not forgotten by our
Heavenly Father, as we are blessed with
health and strength in our midst. We hope
we shall not have to send any patients to that
excellent institution the Hospital. We sent
two quilts, there one year ago last conference.
However, we feel like doing all we can in do-
nating for the Hospital, for we think it will
prove a great blessing to us as a people.
	We all join in sending our best wishes to
those who are interested in the welfare of Zion.
		Your sisters in the Gospel,
 		JANE M. WALTON, President,
		IRENE U. HASKELL, Secretary.


CORRESPONDENCE.

	ST. JOHNS, Apache Co. Arizona, Jan 1884.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	I believe it is a long time since you have
heard from the sisters in this far away part of
the land. I think we are endeavoring to do the
best we can considering the circumstances
which surround us.
	Sister Lucinda Richey, President of our So-
ciety, is a good, kind, motherly woman, ever
on hand to  good in a quiet way. Our So-
ciety gave a social picnic party in the Assembly
Hall, on the evening of the 18th ult, which
was a complete success; all who participated en-
joyed themselves immensely. It was especially
planned for the enjoyment of the aged and
those who did not care much about dancing, as
there were other amusements, including sing-
ing, recitations, etc; altogether it proved to be
one of the most enjoyable events of the season,
owing to the untiring efforts and zeal of our
efficient committee, viz., Sisters Ella Udall,
Helena Jenson, Eliza Tenney and Emma Pat-
terson.
	Our Primary is progressing under the able
management of Sister July Bingham, who la-
bors unceasingly, in its interest; she, with the
help of her assistants, is doing a good work
among the children. They are preparing to
give an entertainment at the end of this quar-
ter. The Young Ladies’Association is also
well managed and prosperous.
	The Ladies Quarterly Conference of this
stake convened in this place on the—of
December, presided over by our Stake Presi-
dent, Sister Emma Smith, upon which occas-
sion we received much  good instruction from
President Jesse N. Smith, and others of the
leading brethren of the stake, as well as many
of the sisters, and we felt well paid for meeting
together.
	With best wishes for the continued success
of the EXPONENT, I subscribe myself,
	Yours truly.						K.


DIVERSITY OF THOUGHT AND
EDUCATION.

	It is a generally accepted idea that women
do not, can not, think as deeply as men. Some
people aver that it is because they have (more
especially a few years past) been educated to
think differently, or rather for their education
to consist of another class of studies.
It is only lately they have been permitted to
attend universities and colleges, they have gen-
erally studied the common branches of educa-
tion, music, language, and some fancy work,
even drawing and painting only being indulged
in by a few; but now that they commonly study
botany, physiology, chemistry and many other
of the higher branches in the high schools,
and so many graduate, it will certainly have a
tendency to make us think more deeply, and
in time we may be credited with scientific dis-


coveries which without this new departure
would undoubtedly belong to those who for so
long have enjoyed these honors.
	It is said that some women are better letter
writers than some men, but that the best lady
writers are only second to the best gentlemen.
Though there are many female novelists  none
enjoy an equal reputation with Dickens, Byron
and Lytton. Mrs. Cross "George Elliot" was
considered the finest lady writer in England.
	In poetry we are again in the shade, and as
artists, historians and composers we see no la-
die's names coupled with those of Landseer,
Macaulay and Handel.
	The business colleges now attended by so
many females are proving very advantageous,
as many clerks and reporters have graduated,
and are employed, and their services equally
valued with those of the men.
	Joan of Arc, Florence Nightingale, Jenny
Lind, Mrs. Hemans, Eliza Cook, Mrs. Cross,
and Jane Taylor, are a few of the names cele-
brated for their natural talents, heroism and
humanity.			ANN FELLOWS.


144	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MANTI ITEMS.

	At the commencement of another cycle of
time we desire to inform our favorite organ
that we are still living and endeavoring to live
the lives of Latter-day Saints, and that the
Manti North Ward Relief Society is up and
doing deeds of kindness—like He who suffered
on the cross—let their good works testify.
	We desire to congratulate our dear President,
Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith, on the attainment
of her eightieth natal day, and we pray for
many more happy returns of the same.
	The year that has just closed has brought
joy to many, sorrow, chastening and bereave-
ment to some, but peace, contentment, and a
feeling of security to all who are seeking "First
the Kingdom of God and its righteousness,"
we trust that 1884 will bring much joy to the
bereaved and chastened, inasmuch as they try
with true resignation to say, "Father, thy will
be done."
	Those who are in trouble find a father, bene-
factor and comforter in our Bishop; a mother,
sister and sympathizer in our beloved president,
Sister Rebecca Wareham, and the members of
the R.S. President J. B. Maiben deserves a
rich share of our gratitude, for his kindly
words of counsel, comfort and ready assistance
in trouble; always encouraging and reminding
us of the good and great things we are des-
tined to accomplish; and indeed all Manti
seems to be trying to out do each other in be-
nevolence, kindness and good deeds.
	The year 1883 will show a bright record, for
our Relief Society; may 1884 continue in the
same path of peace, kindness and benevolence
is the prayer of				A RECIPIENT.
	January, 1884.


The Poland bill, introduced into Congress
this week, proposes an oath to be administered
in Utah and Idaho, that will exclude all mem-
bers of this Church. How any man dare in-
troduce such a bill, disfranchising men and wo-
men for belief, is a mystery. It is the extreme
of extreme measures.


A bow long bent at last waxeth weak.

"A good cause makes a stout heart and a
strong arm."

	"Let us shower the House Judiciary Commit-
tee with letters, postals and petitions demand-
ing recognition at the hands of the law. Give
these men to understand that we are "people,"
and that this must be a government of the peo-
ple, for the people and by the people."--Ex.


OBITUARY

	Died, at Hyde Park, Jan. 14th 1884, of typhoid fever,
Sarah Elizabeth, daughter of John A. and Mary
Woolf. Deceased was born Nov. 24th, 1867. At the or-
ganization of the Primary Associatoin she was appoint-
ed Treasurer; has since been Assistant Secretary, and at
the time of her death was Secretary. She was also an
active member of the Young Ladies Association. In all
things she gave promise of a noble, useful womanhood.
The following tribute of respect and love was read
at her funeral.
	We, the Primary Association of Hyde Park, desire to
offer a tribute to the memory of Sadie, our beloved Sec-
retary and dear sister, whom our Heavenly Father in
His great wisdom has seen fit to call unto Himself.
We can say in all sincerity that she was beloved and,
respected by us all, and all who had the pleasure of her
acquaintance.
	She was always faithful to her duties, ever ready to
assist, and anxious to learn the principles of the Gos-
pel.
	We would offer to her parents our sincere sympathy
and say while we mourn the loss of a dear sister, we
shall look forward with joy to the time when we shall
meet the dear departed in that land where all tears are
wiped away.
	We pray God our Heavenly Father to bless and com-
fort those who mourn and give unto them the sweet
peace which the Gospel affords and help them to realize
that although their daughter has ceased to labor here
she has gone to continue her work in a higher sphere.

To say that we mourn our sister
	Is useless, for all who know her
Dear Sadie, as  friend and companion,
	Feel stricken by this sad blow,
But we cannot question our Father's will
	Knowing He knows what's best,
And knowing in love He chastens
	E'en the ones that He loves best.
When we've reached teh great,"hereafter,"
	When consigned to an early tomb;
And we'll soon cease our battle with sorrow,
	For all are near that bright shore,
Where we'll meet our lost and loved ones,
	To have them through life ever more.
		MRS. AMELIA KIRLY, Prest.,
		MRS. J. M. Peterson,
		MRS. HARRIET WOOLF, Counselors
And members of the Hyde Park Primary Association.


[Column 1]
For Sale at this Office.

BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.

PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,		-	25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,		40c,
POEMS, by E. R. Snow. Vol. 1,		-		$1,00
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, -	1.50

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
Office and residence, 11th Ward, No. 34; Seventh
East Street.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PRovo WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT. M. D.
OFFICE IN GOBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence

[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER 1868.
Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
☞ We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUSHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOOD.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

[Image of store]
HENRY DINWOODEY
FURNITURE,
WALL PAPER,
CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUINS
AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY.

F Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
☞ CALL AND EXAMINE.


[Handwritten "Hannah Hall"]

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 12.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1, 1884.	No. 19.


TO THE POET-BISHOP.

When next the fabled reins you grasp,
	And mount above these earthly bars,
O Poet! lower guide thy flight,
	Lest we shall lose thee 'mong the stars.

Yet poet-prophets, poet-kings,
Wrought in such matchless charm the Word—
No later pen hath reached their power,
None e'en such eloquence hath heard.

Then dip thy pen in that rich stream—
	The holy spirit's themes divine,
And may thy songs, O poet-priest!
	With sacred, ancient psalms entwine.

And when the Zion old shall meet
	The Zion of latter-days,
May'st thou with prophets, psalmists, bring
	Thy people's offering of praise.
					AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Feb. 6th., 1884.


ANSWER TO WOMAN AND SIN.
			------
IN THE CINCINNATI ENQUIRER
			------
	As we are living in the last days when great
and mighty revolutions are taking place, and
understanding somewhat of the purposes of
God, we would think it very strange it some of
Eve's daughters did not possess more lofty
ideas and a higher ambition than have those
of former generations, and it is high time that
they should begin to think and read and act
for themselves; and "inquire whence they
came, whither going, and who they belong to,"
instead of remaining in the same old ruts in
which they have been trained, and wherein the
human family have been gravitating down-
wards for the past generations.  It is a very
erroneous idea, though we know it to be a long
cherished one, which has been thrown into the
teeth of woman by the stronger sex, that she
must shoulder the curse because Eve ate and
gave to Adam the forbidden fruit. We could
with as much propriety accuse him of being
less ambitious and enterprising than the wom-
an; "if he could do only as he was told," as
this writer says, "he would be no higher in the
scale of moral being than the beasts, who in-
deed know neither virtue nor vice" And the
time has arrived when the "bars must be let
down before her, or she will break-them; and
sentence or disability upon her must stand up-
on the evidence and upon reason, or must fall.'
If "she once had equality, and even leadership,
and made a mess of  it," man, who has pro-
fessed to be the master spirit, has made a worse
"mess," and the majority of men have sold
even their birthright for a bowl of pottage; and
it needs no prophet to predict that the day is
nigh when they will have to call upon the
weaker sex to come to their rescue.  Quarrel-
ing over politics and national affairs has been
left for them to do, till through selfishness and
dishonest meddling with what was none of
their business they have abolished freedom and
made it a perfect farce, thereby proving them-
selves no longer fit to govern or manage alone.
Tyranny, broils and contentions and misrule
have taken the place of honor and justice--the
strong are allowed to oppress the weak, and
pass sentence upon them at their will, and it is
high time that woman began to look around her
and to demand the rights which man has so
unlawfully usurped.  And neither should it be
wondered at if, among the wronged and down-
trodden portion, there should be those who feel
"to kick against the Bible," or occasionally ex-
hibit something more than feminine or Christ-
ian weakness. Though she may be entitled to
the honor of acting upon the stage of life and as-
sisting in improving the drama, and though she
acts her part proportionately well, yet it has
been viewed as an awful absurdity for her to
expect an equal share in the praise or the prof-
its.  They might as well say, and with quite as
much propriety, that all of the men were in-
tended to work out doors, or at the same kind
of business or trade, and that all should look
through the same pair of spectacles, or be fitted
by the same measure, no matter whether they
be tall or short, thick or thin; and each one
must be satisfied with one peck measure, no
matter how much more they may require, or
what their cravings may be, they must look no
farther; than to think that all women should
be satisfied and contented with one and the
same condition--the tiresome and monotonous
routine of domestic, or some other labor--as-
piring to nothing beyond what man considers
to be her sphere, because the majority of their 
foremothers were compelled by circumstances
to drudge their lives out in one and the same
kind of a tread-mill.
	"But times are changing," and I think that
there are more women in Utah who realize this
and understand their true position, and what
constitutes "woman's rights," than can be pro-
duced in any other part of the world; and who,
if they feel their rights infringed upon, are
very apt to express it.  We have no reason to
doubt that the cries of God's daughters and
little ones have ascended up into the higher
courts and that God has taken cognizance of
their "case," and He is delivering them from
the iron rule of selfish and ungodly men.  But
the power and influence of women will increase
just in proportion to the purity and righteous-
ness of her course.  Had we nothing more
than the present translation of the Bible to de-
pend upon we should be as much at sea con-
cerning the Gospel and our future state as the
rest of the world appear to be.  But the revel-
ations given to us through the Prophet Joseph
Smith throw new light upon the Scriptures,
and a great deal that was once a dead letter
can now be interpreted; and we, therefore, take
a more consistent and enlightened view of the
Scriptures, which previous to this was as a
sealed book.
	In the Book of Mormon the record of Ne-
phi tells us of the destruction of Jerusalem
which was foretold to him and his father Lehi
in vision, and that their lives were sought be-
cause they declared to the people the things
that were coming, as they were commanded to.
They were shown that through the "transcrib-
ing, amending, translating, etc.," of the Scrip-
tures by uninspired men, many precious por-
tions would be altered or rejected and cast out,
and that "when the book (Bible) proceeded
forth from the mouth of a Jew it contained
the plainness of the Gospel, 	*	*	*
wherefore these things go forth from the Jews
in purity unto the Gentiles according to the
truth which is in God.  But after it had gone
forth through the hands of the great and abom-
inable church, 	*	*	many plain
and precious things had been taken away.
	"And after these plain and precious things
were taken away, it goeth forth unto all the na-
tions of the Gentiles, and after it goeth forth
unto all the nations, 	*	yea, even across
the mighty waters which thou hast seen with
the Gentiles which have gone forth out of cap-
tivity, thou seest because of the many plain
and precious things which have been taken
out of the book	*	*	*	*	an
exceeding great many do stumble. *	*
Wherefore, saith the Lamb of God, I will be
merciful unto the Gentiles, insomuch that I
will bring forth unto them in mine own power
much of my Gospel,	*	*	behold
these things shall be hid up to come forth unto
the Gentiles by the gift and power of the
Lamb, 	*	*	and blessed are they
who thall seek to bring forth my Zion at that
day, for they shall have the gift and power of
the Holy Ghost: and if they endure unto the
end they shall be lifted up at the last day and
shall be saved; and whoso shall publish peace,
yea, tidings of great joy, how beautiful upon
the mountains shall they be."
	When these records were translated by Jos-
eph Smith he had never dreamed of coming
west, much less that so many thousands would
gather up to these  Rocky Mountains, but that
and much more that is wonderful we have seen
come to pass.
	In this translation we find no refletion cast
upon Eve; but we find the following among the
last words that Lehi spoke to his sons, when
he was feeble and trembling with age: "And
now, behold, if Adam had not transgressed he
would not have fallen; but he would have re-
mained in the Garden of Eden, and all things
which were created must have remained in the
same state in which they were, after they were
created; and they must have remained forever,
and had no end, and they would have had no
children: therefore they would have remained
in a state of innocence, having no joy, for they
knew no misery, doing no good, for they knew
no sin.  But, behold, all things have been
done in the wisdom of Him who knoweth all-
things. Adam fell that men might be; and 
men are that they might have joy.  And the
Messiah cometh in the fulness of times, that
He may redeem the children of men from the
fall.  And because they are redeemed from the
fall, they have become free forever, knowing
good from evil; to act for themselves, and not
be acted upon, save it be by the punish-
ment of the law, at the great and last day, ac
cording to the commandments which God hath
given.  Wherefore men are free according to 
the flesh; and all things are given them which
are expedient unto man, and they are free to
choose liberty and eternal life through the
great mediation of all men, or to choose cap
tivity and death according to the captivity and
power of the devil: far he seeketh that all men
might be miserable like unto himself."
	The word of God is to this effect, and it
must needs be that there is an opposition in all
things, or there could have been no purpose in
the end of creation.  Were there not bitter as
well as sweet there would be no opposition, and
therefore there would be nothing to stimulate
one to act for him or herself, neither could
they, were they not enticed by one or the other.
What more could one desire than is contained
in this which belongs to the Gospel, and we
could not ask greater freedom than this, and
which I testify is enjoyed by every soul who
has received the faith and principles of this
the everlasting Gospel; and it would be to the
interest of all if they would but stop and in-
vestigate and weigh the matter well, and not
reject the only true source through which they
may obtain  liberty and eternal life.


[Column 1]
	Having travelled somewhat extensively dur-
ing the past year or two, visiting different set-
tlements with other sisters, I have heard a great
many testimonies by the fireside, as well as in
public, to the purity and godliness of the plu-
ral order of marriage, which has been the
means of uniting the hearts of many sisters who
had come together as strangers, but dwelling
together for years and each struggling to sub-
due their selfishness and practicing the teach-
ings of Christ they had come to love one an-
other, and this attachment had become deep
and lasting. Their testimony did not add any-
thing to my faith, for I know by actual expe-
rience that to enter this order is the first and
surest step towards woman's emancipation from
that thraldom and servitude which has been
imposed npon her by the sterner sex, and un-
der which she has weltered for so many centu-
ries. The Lord has decreed that she shall be
free, and it is her prerogative, as well as man's,
to choose her own path, and improve her tal-
ents as she feels inclined, and show whether or
not her gifts are inferior to his.
	When reading General Butler's opinion
about "woman not being a person." I thought
if he had only been a "Mormon" this would
have furnished a sweet morsel for our oppo-
nents to send forth to condemn us, when
among the most generous of their lords of cre-
ation, few have yet been willing that woman
should have a voice in any public matter
whatever, as if the crime of womanhood
should doom her to perpetual vassalage. The
ladies of Utah were among the first to claim
the franchise, though some of the males who
were not entirely liberated from that old fogy
idea of Paul's, that it "was not decent for a
woman to speak in church," felt considerably
alarmed over the fearful step that some of our
ladies were taking, especially when applying
for the removal of woman's disabilities, think-
ing it very unfeminine, and that they were tres-
passing upon forbidden ground, and would
more than likely make fools of themselves, and
there was quite a war of words over it. but
as ridicule was their best weapon, it gave us
the advantage and they were beaten at their
own game and retired considerably discomfit-
ed. And being blessed with wiser heads, whose
superior judgment overruled, that feeling be-
came subdued if not entirely squelched. Pres-
ident Brigham Young was in favor of this
step, and had proposed it sometime previous to
his death, and the Lord had, no doubt, in-
spired him to do so. The woman's bill had
passed both houses, but it failed to become a
law for lack of the signature of our self-es-
teemed Christian philanthropist, Eli H. Mur-
ray, whose death knell is already sounding as
another warning to that class who try to rise
upon the downfall of others.
	Allowing that the old Scriptures were "not
all given by inspiration," as testified by the
Rev. Dr. Curry, of Chicago, man cannot lay
this sin to Eve's door, as we have no record of
her having a hand in transcribing or changing
them or any of the ordinances of God's house.
And when, what he terms the "ten thousand
old wives' fables," which "the Old Testament
abounds with, finally drop out like a tadpole
loses its tail," the world will have no further
use for the now necessary appendage called
woman, and the honored practice of rais-
ing families will have become obsolete. But
as we are dawning upon a more enlightened
age we find that we are not dependent upon
man's theories or fables, for the heavens are
opened to all who will knock, and there, if we
seek, we can find. It is the privilege of all to
search after the wisdom and the knowledge of
God, which is necessary to enable one to tread
in the path which our Savior marked out, show-
ing plainly that we must give to Him our undi-
vided hearts, and that if we wish to attain to
the highest glory we must pass through similar

[Column 2]
trials, and that if we will do this we can be-
come joint-heirs with Him to kingdoms, princi-
palities and powers. All this and more even
than can be comprehended by man is prom-
ised to every soul who is willing to lay the
foundation for it here. We should realize that
we are all brothers and sisters of one great
family, aud we ought to understand our true
position to our Father who erected His King-
dom upon the same natural principle. The
old serpent, we are told, was once an angel of
God and had fallen from heaven, wherefore he
became a devil, having sought that which was
evil before God; and because he had fallen
from heaven, and had become miserable forev-
er, he sought also the misery of mankind.
When he said unto Eve, "partake of the for-
bidden fruit, and ye shall not die; but ye shall
be as God, knowing good and evil," he did it
for an evil purpose; but the Lord only permit-
ted him to go thus far to carry out His own
plans; and men are lowering themselves, if
they did but know it, when they admit that
such a stigma is attached to their mother,s
name, "You brought sin into the world."
When the Lord said, "Behold the man is
become one of us," He meant the woman as
well and if they became one with the gods in
partaking of that fruit, then can we not draw
this conclusion, that in the restoration of all
things woman, who was the first to know good
and evil, will stand as good a chance to be ex-
alted as man, and that she will reign in like
majesty and power as a queen or goddess over
the kingdom which she has helped to inhabit?
Yes, and every son and daughter who willing-
ly walk in accordance with those laws and
plans laid down by the Father and Son Jesus
—keeping all the commandments which He
has given to His prophets, ancient and modern,
will be enabled, in a day to come, to claim the
same glory for having been faithful over a few
things, He will make them rulers over many.
This is what every Latter-day Saint who has
come to an understanding of this Gospel is
working for, and is what stimulates and ena-
bles us to "endure all things that we may obtain
all things." Abraham was promised that his
seed should become as numerous as the sand
upon the sea shore, and others have received
similar promises. But he had a plurality of
wives, by whom his kingdom was increased
more rapidly, and so also did his sons, and we
see by natural principle that the size of one's
kingdom must depend greatly upon the num-
ber of their posterity as well as by adoption,
and also upon their righteousness in this pro-
bation, and we will find millions of children
whose parents are unworthy of them. And
where there are a number of wives who are
fruitful, the more numerous will become their
posterity, and if they are also righteous each
wife may in this way eventually become a
queen over her own kingdom; and the greater
the number of these kingdoms the greater
will be the man's glory, and all these
will add to the kingdom and glory of our God;
and when their work is finished and presented
to Him, if each have done their part as He
commanded when he divides his estate there is
no power on earth or in heaven that can hin-
der the woman from receiving what she has
earned, for this is her own heritage.
	But what of those who from pure indolence
or the fear of trouble or a man-fearing spirit
have shirked their duties and disobeyed the
commandments and requirements of their Ma-
ker? To be fruitful and multiply and replen-
ish the earth, was the first great command, and
to labor and till the soil was not only "enno-
bling," but healthful, and promotes life, and
such are progressive and give evidence in this
probationary state of their worthiness to fill a
higher and more responsible position in the
next. How much more terrible will be their
sin and their disappointment when they awake

[Column 3]
in the morning of the resurrection and find
their glory has been clipped by their own slack-
ness and refusing to take upon them their cross
or even to bear the souls of men, which is the
glory of woman. There will be greater mercy
for the ones who have sinned through ignor-
ance. Thus we see that the world has been re-
trograding, and those who oppose and fight a-
gainst these principles will find that what they
seemed to have, will be taken from them and
given to another, for they have buried their
talent instead of improving upon it. And
these welcome words cannot be said to them:
"Well done, thou good and faithful servant,
thou hast been faithful over a few things and
I will make thee ruler over many." But the
ones that are destined to fill these high posi-
tions are only those who will yield a strict obe-
dience to the laws of God, and such must make
up their mind to tread a thorny path, being
made partakers of sorrow and suffering that
they may understand the heighth and the depth
of mortal woe; that they may be capable of
feeling for others, and to deal out true justice
and mercy to all. We have the life of our Sa-
vior, which is set as a sample, and if we ever
become joint-heirs with Him, must we not tread
in His footsteps? But He said, "Come unto
me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and
I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you
and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in
heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls.
For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light."
Where is there a soul who has rendered will-
ing obedience to His admonitions, that has not
found peace and rest to the soul? We know
that there is far greater safety and hap-
piness both here and hereafter in taking the
course that was marked out by the Great and
Alwise Creator than to trifle with and outrage
His laws and the laws of nature, and thereby be-
come the greater slaves to passion and dissipa-
tion. And we know if the plural order of mar-
riage had not been instituted His grandest pur-
poses would have been thwarted—a fact which
no one understands better than does Satan,
and this is why we are prompted continually
to do evil and to neglect our duties, and they
are his agents who are so energetic in opposing
this Church, because he knows it to be the on-
ly true one; which will receive and act upon this
and other principles which God has condes-
cended to reveal to us through His boy-Proph-
et, Joseph Smith, who, being unlearned, was
not puffed up in pride and vain conceit, but
was entirly dependant upon Him for revela-
tion and wisdom; and he suffered the common
lot of all who have undertaken to war with
wickedness and the fierce prejudices of a stero-
typed and corrupt Christianity. They are the
ones who have thrown aside their free agency
and do not exercise their own reason, but have
become the willing slaves to priestcraft and
public opinion, and they are afraid to follow
even their honest convictions. The Bible does
not say that God hateth this plural order, but
 that "He hateth putting away." And what
of the present state of society in the Christian
world and the crime of infanticide which, in
the words of a popular physician, is "increas-
ing with fearful rapidity and has really reached
such a magnitude as to seriously affect the
growth of civilized nations and to threateu
their very existence."		*		*	The
most unstinted and scathing invectives are
used in characterizing the criminality of a mo-
ther who takes the life of her unborn babe,
but a word is seldom said of the one who forced
upon her the circumstances which gave the
unfortunate one existence. Though doctors,
ministers, moralists have said much upon this
subject and written more, it is reasonable to
suppose they will never accomplish much
of anything in the direction of reform until
they recognize the part the man acts in all of
these sad cases, and begin to demand reform


where it is most needed, and where its achieve-
ment will effect the most good." And here is
the testimony of another learned physician:
"From a very large verbal and written corres-
pondence in this and other states, I am satis-
fied that we have become a nation of murder-
ers." Is this not a home thrust, and what
more need be said in condemnation of a
government that is so lost to every sense of
honor and humanity and have become so ac-
customed to these crimes that their consciences
are scathed over, as it were, with a hot iron.
And this is the condition of society from
whence comes the cry for "Mormons,' to repu-
diate every wife but one- leave them with a
tarnished name—destitute of homes aud sup-
port and bring them down, if possible, to their
own degraded level, ignoring the very thing
which would soonest rid the world of these so-
cial impurities. They know as well as we do
that this kind of marriage would be a promoter
of virtue if it were only made honorable be-
fore the world; but that would destroy their
own pet institutions, therefore they cry it
down. But if purity is ever brought into the
political world it will be when women enjoy
equality with men and can have a voice in
making the laws, and when they will claim the
freedom of choosing and marrying honorable
husbands who will not be ashamed to own
them before the world as wives, though they
may have a plural number. And this is the
only thing that will enable us to erect a lasting
barrier against those pernicious and demoraliz-
ing influences that are fostered and encouraged
in the midst of our would-be reformers. A
painful evidence of its looseness and immoral
tendencies we are obliged occasionally to wit-
ness, and the withered hopes of those who were
in a measure blind to the vicious and baneful
influences that were gradually thrown around
their loved ones. We are fixed and deter-
mined to grapple with error and prejudice un-
til a better system of social government is es-
tablished, and we fear not the consequences,
knowing that we are in the service of Him
who commanded it and that He will still pro-
vide a way for our deliverance, and that He
has accepted the bleeding sacrifice that we
have made for the public weal as well as our
future glory, and which has stimulated the
weakest saint who has launched forth to remove
the obstacles that are thrown up like mountains
before us. There is no other panacea to be
found, and we shall be enabled through this to
produce a higher and nobler tpye of humanit-
ty, alike in physical, mental and moral growth.
And we defy any earthly potentate of power
to compel us to give testimony against our hus-
bands who have other wives for conscience
sake. According to an old time proverb,
"When woman will she will, you may depend
on't, but when she won't she won't, and there’s
an end on't." And we think that they will
have to begin soon, to be enabled to roof over
sufficient Territory to hold all the wives and
children who will refuse to give evidence to
convict the men of their choice. Which prac-
tice should be considered the most odious in
the sight of decent people, that which was fol-
lowed by men of God anciently, or the modern
custom of brothel-keeping-- houses of iniquity,
which are built and sustained by fathers and
husbands who are open perjurers? Running
after “strange women,” whose "mouth is a deep
pit," and "he that is abhored of the Lord shall
fall therein, his house is the way to hell, going
down to the chambers of death; he that doeth
it destroyeth his own sould."
	The women of this church are generally of
the strong-minded class, and as we have dis-
carded the various receipts recommended by
the pious male quacks, we advise them to retire
awile and allow us to mix an swallow our
own physic, if we need it, instead of forcing it
down other people's throats. But we will as-
sure them that from these mountains is to roll
that little stone spoken of in the Scriptures,
which will bring about this great work of re-
form. And though our motives are now mis-
understood and we are looked down upon as
the very scum of society, we do not feel it, but
consider ourselves among the most highly fa-
vored of God's children, and console ourselves
with this assurance and the knowledge that we
will yet be looked up to and honored as the
founders of a superior system of Christianity.
			HELEN MAR WHITNEY.


146	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTHING ON THE BOOKS.
			----------
With patient faces and timid steps
	To the lofty Gate they came,
And answered each to the keeper there,
	With trembling lips their name,
For their earth-life work was done, and now
	They must meet its praise or blame.

On the faces brown, weary and old,
	The pearly radiance fell;
It showed their faded and homely robes,
	Their poor coarse hands as well;
That these were the poor and lowly born
	It needed no words to tell.

O, sweet the spirit upon the air!
	And e'en through the gates of gold
The heavenly strains, entrancingly
	Rising and falling, stole;
Ah, the joy and pain, the hopes and fears--
	By our tongues could ne'er be told.

"What record bring ye from the earth below!"
	Then all trembling answered be:
"We tolled in poverty all our days,
	I and my wives, all three;
The way was hard but we've kept the faith
	And brought our children to Thee."

He opened wide the second Book,
	"Lo, there are the deeds," he said,
“Thou hast won eternal glory here,
	And in thy trial's stead
For every test a jewel bright
	In the crown that waits thy head.

"With these, thy wives and children dear,
	Whom no guile could tempt or win.
Who blushed not to live their Maker's laws
	'Gainst might and pride and sin;
Where the Gods and saints in glandess dwell,
	O, thou blessed, enter in."

And then came up to the Golden Gate
	Those who stood next behind,
Their faces beamed with the certain fa
	Of bliss they looked to find,
For in their past neither shame or sin
	Their hopes to check or bind.

"Our record below? My wife and I
	So happy a time have had,
Our friends were true and our fortunes blest,
	They very skies seemed glad;
We mourned no trials, and wrought no wrongs
	To make other creatures sad."

He opened wide the Book of Deeds,
	And--"lo, there is naught," he said,
"Recorded here in rewards for thee,
	Thy past is blank and dead;
For thou hast lived for thyself, not God,
	All thy idle hopes are fled.

"For hath not God commanded thee--
	Woe to them that dwell at east?--
Could not Jesus' words or His dying, touch
	Thy hearts, or bend thy knees?
Thou canst not enter into His joy
	Who hath suffered not like these."

Then turned they from the Golden Gate,
	From the holy light away.
Heard In despair the rapturous hymn
	That ever seemed to say:
"Too late, O soul! hast thou come to Him--
	He knoweth thee not to-day."
					AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Feb. 9th., 1884.


THINKING OF HOME.
			-----
'Tis Sabbath evening, hushed and still.
	Away in the chilly north;
From the window of my sister's home
	I look with sad eyes forth.
The shades of night are gathering fast;
	Another wintry day is gone,
Like many others has it passed,
	Without a word from home.

And while I gaze with aching eyes
	Upon this dreary, snow-clad vale,
I think of the far-off sunny skies,
	And watch for the evening mail.
The fence-tops here are scarcely seen
	Above the drifting sone;
I think of the fields of emerald green
	And the limpid brooks that flow

Near my own dear home in the sunny south,
	And my full heart breathes a prayer
When I think of the weary miles between
	Myself and the loved ones there;
I shrink amid the deepening gloom,
	Close to the window pane,
To hide from the friends within the room
	The tears that drop like rain.

For when my nightly rest I seek,
	No little evening prayers I hear
Ascending on the stilly air
	My home-sick heart to cheer;
No dimpled arms steal round my neck;
	No soft lips press my cheek;
No sweet mouth closes against my ears
	Its loving words to speak.

No strong arm near on which to lean,
	Except the arm of Truth's alone;
Loved faces only seen in dreams
	Around the hearth at home,
Where sweet associations all
	More dear than aught on earth,
Until we lose them for a while
	We cannot know their worth.

Old Time, for once your flight I dare,
	Nor care how swift you fly
With balmy spring upon your wings
	The snow-clad earth to dry.
A joy it is to meet with friends
	I have seen not for years,
But sorrow with my pleasure blends;
	My grief finds vent in tears.

'Tis seldom I am quite so sad
	And home-sick as to-night,
But dreadful news received to-day
	Has shut out all that's bright.
Dear friends in Pleasant Grove are bowed
	'Neath sorrow's chast'ning hand;
While death and mourning seem to be
	Sown broadcast through that land.

So many jewels rich and rare
	From strickened homes are torn;
Three little daughters, pure and fair,
	A sister's heart must mourn.
And oh! how sad to meet with him,
	The husband, father dear,
But just returned to his loving wife, 
	Her bitter grief to share.

One sweet young friend, a sister's child,
	Has one bright, prattling boy;
Her poor heart now with grief is wild;
	Her home bereft of joy,
For he, like many more besides,
	With dread disease is low,
Which fills the hearts of loving friends
	With sorrow, pain and woe.

We pray our Heavenly Father
	Their precious lives to save,
And if it can consistent be,
	To spare them from the grave;
That they may live in peace and health
	Until the Lord shall come,
And hear without a taste of death,
	The welcome sound, "Well done"
				MARY A. FARNSWORTH.
Georgetown, Feb. 8th., 1884.


148	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: [-]ne copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each s[-]uare, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	MARCH 1, 1884


[Column 1]
A FRIENDLY VISIT.

	The recent visit of the Wyoming Legislature
to this city out of courtesy to the Legislature of 
Utah, was an event of considerable importance,
and unusual in the history of Territories. It
will doubtless be beneficial in creating a feeling
of greater interest in each other's future welfare.
The Wyoming party, consisting of the mem-
bers of the Legislature, the President of the
Council and Speaker of the House, with a
number of ladies, and accompanied by other in-
vited guests, arrived in this city on the evening
of Feb. 24th.
	A party of gentlemen from Salt Lake, includ-
ing Mayor Jennings and some members of the
City Council, and a delegation from the Utah
Legislature, met the Wyoming people in Ogden
where greetings were interchanged and appro-
priate demonstrations made by the city authori-
ties; then the Wyoming party and the Utah
Legislature attended the Theatre the same
evening of their arrival, by invitation of the
City Council.
	The next day the two Legislatures met in
joint session. At 11:30 His Excellency, Govern-
or Murray, of Utah, and the Legislature of 
Wyoming entered the hall. President of the
Council, Hon. W. W. Cluff introduced Hon. M. 
H. Halliday, President of the Wyoming Coun-
cil, who addressed the audience for a few mo-
ments in a very able and dignified manner.
Hon. James Sharp, Speaker of the House, in-
troduced Hon. F. R. Jones, Speaker of the
House of Wyoming Legislature, who mad
some vary suitable and complimentary remarks,
and closed by saying, "With hearts as large as
our immense plains we invite you to return our
visit." Hon. F. D Richards moved the adop-
tion of the following resolutions:
	Where[--], the people of the Territory of Utah
are this day honored with the presence of the 
Legislative Assembly of our neighboring Terri-
tory, Wyoming, whose material prosperity and
rapid growth command our admiration and res-
pect, a Territory famed throughout the United
States as the pioneer in removing from women
all the political disabilities and placing them
side by side with the sterner sex, as sharers in
the rights, as well as the duties of citizens, a
movement in which Utah has shown her
complete sympathy by legislation, of almost as
early a date as Wyoming's suffrage law;
	And, whereas, The two Territories are bound
together by interests in many respects similar,
and by ties of common brotherhood and cstcem;
therefore, be it.
	Resolved, That we, the Legislative Assembly,
in joint session assembled, desiring to show our
appreciation of this friendly visit, in the name
of the people of Utah, whom we represent, here-
by extend to our distinguished visitors a cordial
[Column 2]
greeting and hearty welcome to the oldest Ter-
ritory of of our great Republic.
	The resolutions were adopted. Gov. Murray
was invited to address the audience, and spoke
a few minutes in a happy vein and was heartily
applauded.
	Prest. Cluff made brief remarks, expressive
of friendship and union between the Territories.
	Speaker Sharp gave a few words of welcome
in a very happy manner.
	Hon. F. E. Warren, of Wyoming Council,
made a very interesting speech on pioneer life
and emigrant travel and other matters of that
kind, and after speaking of the great resources
of the two Territories, classed them as the two
greatest Territories in America.
	Hon. H. V. S. Groesback, of Wyoming, spoke,
and recited an original poem, which gave
a poetic idea of the desert transformed by labor
and toil into a land of wealth and civilization.
	Speehes were also made by Hon. A. L. Bab-
bit, Hon. H. E. Tischemacher, of Wyoming,
Hon. F. S. Richards and Hon. Abram Ha[-]ch,
of Utah.
	Hon. Mahlon Chance, of Ohio, made a very
amusing and elequent speech.
	Judge Emerson and Secretary Thomas [-]sch
made a few remarks, after which Hon. F. E. 
Warren spoke again upon the theme of Woman
Suffrage, which is exciting the attention of the
Assembly at Wyoming.
	Mr. Babbitt followed in a few remarks on the
same subject. Hon. Erastus Snow was called
upon as the greatest living pioneer of Utah, and
he gave a cursory review of what had transpired
in the history of this great Rocky Mountain re-
gion.
	Counselor Hammond moved to have 1,000
copies of the minutes of this joint session print-
ed for distribution.
	Session closed with benediction pronounced
by Dr. Rapter, of the Wyoming company.
	In the evening a grand civic ball was given in
the theatre in honor of the distingished visitors. It
was a very enjoyable affair, but the dancing was
the principal feature of the evening. An ele-
gant lunch was served in the building, and
everything passed off pleasantly. Prest. Taylor,
Mayor Jennings, and many other representa-
tive people were present, and participated in
the social festivities of the occasion.
	Saturday morning a reception was held at the
Gardo House, through the kindness of Prest.
Taylor, who arranged with the Wyoming party
to have the ladies of Utah and Wyoming meet
each other and have a few words together, and
patronize a little. Accordingly, about twenty
of the Utah ladies, and about the same number
of the Wyoming party, were introduced, and
had some little conversation on subjects of gen-
eral interact; mostly education and suffrage.
Among the ladies were Sisters E. R. S. Smith,
Zina D. H. Young, M. Isabella Horne, Sophia
W. Taylor, Helen Mar Whitney, Emily Hill
Woodmansee, Emily H. Little, Amanda M. 
Cannon, Mary A. Taylor, Presendia L Kim-
ball, Bathsheba W. Smith, Maggie Y. Taylor
and several others. One interesting matter
talked of was women upon a jury; it is a sub-
ject that has been discussed pro and con more
than any other perhaps in connection with wo-
men having the franchise. Mrs. Martha Boyse,
of Laramie, related a circumstance of women on
a jury in a murder case. It was very new and 
to women who believe in political equality it is
the practical workings that give strength to 
convinctions.
	Mr. and Mrs. Mager informed us that in Car-
bon County they had a lady school superintend-
end, Mrs. Smith, who had given the most per-
fect satisfaction, ably and efficiently filling the
position. When she was nominated a man
was her oppenent, but the vote was carried by
[Column 3]
immense majority for the lady. It has been 
pretty well proven that there are some offices 
just as suitable for  ladies as for gentlemen.


LETTER V.

BERN, Switzerland, Jan. 28th, 1884.

DEAR SISTER BELLE
	We returned a few days since from Munich,
where we received your good letter of Dec, 7th
ult. Where the letter has been wandering for
six weeks I cannot imagine, but I am exceed-
ingly glad to get it at last.	*	*	*	*
	While in Munich we spent every minute of
our time to the best advantage, you know full
well how tiresome sight-seeing is, but we h[--]
an excellent time. Munich is a grand, old city,
and the people are so courteous and polite. It
is said to be the cheapest capital in Europe, and
certainly there is much to boast of in beauty
and magnificense. The city is full of soldiers,
and we saw them drill nearly every day, and
the music was charming.	*	*	The first
day we visited the Old Pinakole[--], a splendid
picture gallery, where we saw pictures by
Rapheal, Murillo, Titan Tintoretta and two
large rooms with adjoining cabinets hung with
pictures by Rubens and Durer. I am most
pleased with Murillo's pictures, they are so
natural and life like.
	The next day we walked up the Maximillian
Strausse, the finest street of the city; the build-
ings on this street are very grand, and in the
center of the street are many large, fine statues.
Right at the head of the street on a hill is the
Maxianium, a very fine, handsome building; it
was cloudy when we got there so we could not
enjoy seeing the pictures so much. We visited
the South Cemetery, the finest one in Germany.
While there we saw two Catholic funerals.
	The next morning we visited several Catholic
Churches. They are all wonderfully decorated.
n one of them is a statue of Eugene B [---]-
nais, crowned as a Greek hero. We went from
one church to another, until I saw all I ever
wish to of Catholics At every door were beg-
gars crossing themselves, counting beads and
begging for money.
	While in Munich we saw, in the Hof Thea-
tre, the opera of Faust. This theatre is the
largest in Germany, and the fr[---]g is very
fine, yet it seemed to me bare and unfinished.
The boxes were none of them draped, and the
curtain was very ugly. The scenery, however,
was excellent, and the manner in which it was
manipulated was perfectly wonderful. There
were sixty musicians in the orchestra, and a
very full chorus. Imagine how pleasant it
would be to see Faust in the original language,
and performed so excellently. We also saw the
Vampire after Byron in this theatre. This is
the first time I ever went to the theatre with-
out a hat; all the ladies took off their wraps and
hats, and I think the idea is a very sensible one,
for sometimes it is quite annoying to sit behind
a great, big hat and have one's view obstructed.
	I must tell you I have seen a queen. As we
walked down Maximillian Strau[-]ss we met the
mother queen with another lady and a guard
taking a morning walk. Every one stopped and
bowed to her. The last day we were in Munich
we went to the Palace, and were shown through
some of the rooms. In one room there is a bed-
stead which cost 800,000 florias, and it took forty
people ten years to make it. It is most beauti-
ful, ornamented with all red b[---]ded velvet,
embroidered with gold thread. The finest room
we were in was the Throne Room, where there
are a number of large statues made from cannons
captured in war and coated with gold. This
room is only used for baptisms, and when the
king receives foreign ministers. The rooms were


very singular, all inlaid floors and gilded ceilings
with either painted walls or walls hung with
velve[-]. The ball room was very lovely; opening
from this were smaller rooms hung with pic-
tures of beautiful women. These were called
the Gallery of beauties. Among them was only
one English picture, Lady Brook, of London.
They were all very lovely. I cannot tell you
half I saw in Munich, but shall talk you all to
death when I come home telling you all that I
have seen. I had such a delightful time there,
and shall never forget it.
	John Q. has gone to-day to Shirley to hold
meeting, and I am in the office writing. It is a
very stormy, wintry day, and would not tempt
many for such a long walk as he has taken.
	I see the little boys here, and I think I will
tell Sep. how they act. The most of them are
very polite, and they all go to school. They
carry their books in a satchel strapped on their
backs, and they often stop on the way to spin
tops. They have whips with which they make
the tops just spin round, instead of strings like
the boys at home.
	The sisters are gathering for meeting, though
it is not near time. The sisters here are all so
kind, and make such a fuss over me, as if I were
a wonderful creature, something different from
them, by the way they treat me.
	After all there is nothing like home, and no
people quite like our own of course.
	We had a very, funny experience crossing
Lake Constance last Thursday. It was quite
stormy, and our companions were not very
brave sailors; when the boat tipped they jumped
from the table and started for the doors and
windows in a most frightened manner. We
laughed at them for seeming so stupid, as to be
frightened at such a little lurch.	*	*	*
	John Q. joins me in love to Mr. Sears, all the
children, yourself, and remember me to all
friends, and believe me, ever your loving sister,
								ANNIE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 149


[Column 1]
LETTER VI.

BERN, Switzerland, Jan. 31st; 1884.

MY DEAREST MOTHER:
	John Q. received word from Prest. Smith to-
day to the effect that his release was recalled,
and that he was to remain here until the Presi-
dency at home should release him. President
Taylor sent a cablegram, stating that he regret-
ted the release; and preferred for him to remain;
so you see we are not to be with you so very
soon after all.
	When the release came it was wholy unex-
pected, and seemed then rather untimely, but
now John Q. has made every preparation to re-
turn, and we should have started Tuesday, and
our hopes were raised to the highest pitch, and
John Q. was just too happy for words to think
of being at home once more. You can well im-
agine how quickly our ardor cooled when to-
day's news arrived, but of course "what must
be, must be," and we will try and be content un-
til the proper time arrives for us to come. Per-
haps now John Q. can accomplish what he had
intended doing before being released, namely,
making a tour through all the conferences. Of
course I do not know, nor do I think he knows
yet himself.
	Bro. Schonfield is here, having come to pre-
side, and John Q. was handing everything over
to him, but this will all change now, too, I sup-
pose. If we were not too disapointed we might
have a hearty laugh at the predicament things
are in, or were this morning; it did'nt take John
Q. long to straighten matters though, and he is
now working away in the office as though his
release had never been thought of, notwith-
standing this morning THE STERN, with his

[Column 2]
farewell in, was all ready for the press, and he
had just time enough to stop its being print
ed.
	While we were in Munich we received three
excellent letters from you, and I know I ought
to have answered before, but I waited until I
had answered several other letters of less im-
portance, and had plenty of time to write you a
long letter, and now I am glad I waited, for had
I written before my letter would have been fil-
led with descriptions of our preparations to
leave, and plans for our journey.
	What you ask about the Relief Societies here
we had already intended doing, and will send
you a report as soon as possible. I think it will
be quite interesting to know of the societies in
this land. It has been more than interesting to
me to see and know the Saints here in their na-
tive country, and to become acqaainted with
their ways and habits. I see and realize now
their feelings when they go into a strange coun-
try, where everything is so very different from
what they had been used to. We have often
laughed at them for their awkwardness and
seeming ignorance, and I have now learned that
"they are not so green as they look." I can eas-
ily account for their tripping down the middle
of the street, for here, in Switzerland, the side-
walks are so narrow and so filled up with mer-
chandize that they have to take the middle of
the street or nothing. In Basal, and some other
places, there are raised and paved sidewalks only
wide enough for one foot at a time, and one has
to be an expert tight-rope walker to keep his
balance on such a place. Don't be surprised if
you see me strolling down the middle of the
street when I come home, staring with all my
might at the buildings; that's what I do here.
	I was greatly surprised and pained to hear of
the death of Sister Grossbeck, also Mary Young's;
how sudden they both seemed; I had not even
heard that they were sick, though of course I
knew Mrs. Young was in delicate health. Poor,
little Fanny, I think she is very much alone
now, but I suppose she will have much sym-
pathy, and it is likely she will not miss her
mother as much as Luella after all.
	The weather here has been too mild, I think,
for winter time, and there has been much sick-
ness around. Three of our Elders have been
very sick; one a Bro. Evans, from Lehi, so bad
that his release was recommended, and he was
taken to England. He has been getting better
there, and the last news we had was to the
effect that he might soon be able to resume his
labors in the field. His sickness was quite a
trial for him; he came when I did, and went
straight to Berlin. Bro. Pack left him there to
come to the Conference, and he was sick all the
time and among perfect strangers, and could not
speak a word of the language. Was not that a
sad experience for a young man? But he has
overcome it all after a severe struggle.
	While we were in Munich we went to several
Catholic Churches. 'Twas Sunday morning,
and our people have no meetings in that part, so
we thought we would see what kind of religion
the people of Munich had. The churches are
mostly very old, and look quite dilapidated on
the outside. but the interior is most beautifully
decorated. The first one we entered was the
St. Michaels, where the soldiers assembled for
worship. At each door stood a priest behind a
box, with some such inscription on it as "[-]etrus
pfennigs," and everyone was expected, of course,
to drop a piece of money in these boxes. Just
at the door was the fount of holy water, where
each one stopped, dipped in their fingers and
crossed themselves; then they all turned to
some image or picture, and bowed; all this was
done with haste, without the least sign of feel-
ing. There were many people coming in and

[Column 3]
going through these movements, adding a short
prayer and then leaving, all during the services.
The priest, in his long, white robe with a lace
ruffle round it, after bowing to several images,
and going through a routine of prayers, bows,
and other movements, at last reached the stand,
which protruded from the side wall about half
way down the church, and from there he stood
and preached his sermon.
	The next church was a smaller one, but more
elaborately decorated with frescoing than the
first, and the carved altars and fizures were very
beautiful, only they had a blue cloth dress over
the image of Mary, and one of the saints was
dressed in yellow. In this church they were
having "High Mass," and the music was very
beautiful. After the opening hymn, through a
curtained door came a priest, followed by a
youth with steaming incense, and then two
little boys with burning tapers; all were dressed
in the white robes. The priest looked wonder-
fully sober, and first he knelt in front of an al-
tar, then one of the boys brought a red scarf
with a cross on the back of it and spread it
across his shoulders; all the congregation then
knelt. After a while the priest arose, parted
some curtains over the altar and there crossed
himself with the water which was in a bowl un-
der a golden crucifix, he then proceeded to an-
other image and went through a similar process,
then reached an altar with Mary's image just
above; here everyone knelt again, and the red
scarf was taken off, and another put on, then
the incense was swung back and forth, the
choir sang and the priest read. This lasted some
time with an occasional change of scarf, and a
turn or two to the congregation. We stood this
as long as possible and then took our departure;
only think, mother, how this must have affected
me. I could not breathe freely until I reached
the street. It seemed to me that some dreadful
spirit was prevailing in there; it was certainly
not the pure, peaceful spirit that always abides
in places where I have been accustomed to wor-
ship. All around they bowed and bent and
prayed to images of gold and bronze and brass,
and begged their congregation for more help to
erect these inanimate objects, while at every
door stood ragged, sickly women or children,
begging alms from those who could liberally
give for building more images, but scorned the
poor, living creatures. Though I felt so disgust-
ed with these churches, still I had started out
to visit them, and so walked into the next one
we came to. This was the Church of the Thea-
tines. There were no particular services going
on in here, only the people were praying and
bowing, and the priests were collecting pfennigs.
In all these churches are fine frescoes and
paintings, and in this one are some by Tintor-
etto, Zanchi and others. This church contains
the Royal Vaults, and the Emperor Charles vii
reposes here.
	The finest of the old churches we visited was
the Frauenkirche, this is very full of figures and
is decorated almost too much; from the center
hangs a large crucifix. The principal object in
this place is the Monument of Emperor Louis,
the Bavarian, a catafalque in dark marble, with
decorations in bronze, and four knights at the
corners acting as guards to the tomb. On a pil-
lar is a Turkish flag, captured in 1688. The
prettiest church we were in was "The All
Saints' Church." This is the Court Chapel, and
is joined to the Palace. It is very small, but
exceedingly beautiful; the columns and walls
are made of variegated marble, and the frescoes
are all painted on a gold ground. The newest
and last church we were in was the Basilica.
This is also very beantiful and the frescoes were


done by He[-]s and his pupils, but it is too much
like the others for me to favor you with another
description. You no doubt have tired by this
time reading of churches, but I am very glad I
saw them and saw the services in them, for it
was only another lesson to me of the truth of
the Gospel and the false teachings of the world.
What is there in all this mockery that so many
thousands should be bound to it? I shuddered
as I left these places, and it took a long walk un-
der the bright, shining sky to relieve me of the
feelings of pain and dread that these sights had
brought upon me.
	What else we saw in Munich Belle's letter will
tell you, though it may not give much of a des-
cription of the sights I was so interested in I
enjoyed my visit there very much indeed.
	Give my love to father and all the folks, in
which John Q. joins me.	*	*	*	Re-
member me to all your lady friends, and thank
them for me for their kind remembrance.
	With the greatest love for you, my darling
mother—for my sisters, and our own precious
boy,
	I am as ever your loving daughter,
								ANNIE.


150	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTICE.

	To the Stake Presidents of Y. L. M. I. A: It
is very desirable that we have full and correct
reports from each stake. Will the Secretaries
please send them in at once, in order that the
Secretary of the Central Board may be prepared
to make her report in due time for the Annual
Conference in April proximo. The reports
should be forwarded so as to reach here not later
than March 15th. Address, Louie M. Wells,
Salt Lake City. B x 5[-]5.
			ELIMINA S. TAYLOR, President.
			LOUIE M. WELLS, Secretary.


BIRTHDAY.

DEAR EDITOR:
	The Relief Society of the 8th Ward is in a
prosperous condition. January 15th the officers
met at the residence of Sister E. B. Fletcher as
a surprise on her 61st birthday. They also pre-
sented her with a suitable present, which was
highly appreciated by one who is held in great
esteem by the ward. A bounteous repast was
spread, and partaken of with pleasure by all
present.			SARAH A. HAWKINS,
							Secretary.


PLEASE TAKE NOTICE.

	Secretaries in the foreign branches, on the
Islands and in the States, should forward their
statistical and financial reports to the Secretary
of Relief Societies, instead of to the Editor of
EXPONENT. It is necessary that the reports be
received here two weeks prior to each general
conference.
				MRS. S. M. KIMBALL,
					Secretary Central Board.

	THE Stake Secretaries of Primary Associations
are earnestly requested to distribute blanks to
the various branches and obtain complete annu-
al reports in order that concise Stake reports
may reach the central board by March 15th,
1884.					LILLIE FREEZE,
	Secretaty Central Board of Primary Associa-
tions.


WE have several excellent articles left over
from this issue; essays, poems and other import-
ant matter.


[Column 1]﻿
R S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

VIRGIN CITY, Jan. 10th, 1884.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	The Primary Association of this place was
joined by the Primary of Duncan's Retreat and
held a very pleasing little fair on January 8th.
It was opened with prayer by Charles Work-
man, one of our little Primary boys, at ten
o'clock a.m. One hour and a half was then
spent in viewing the many little articles the
children had made. These displayed all kinds
of work, both by boys and girls, from the com-
ical Punch and Judy, made from wood and
dressed by two little boys, to the delicate lace
and flowers. One piece of work, deserving
special mention, was the piecing of blocks for
a quilt, by Minnie Burke, a little girl of six
years old; the work spoke well indeed of one
so young. All the work showed that the little
folks had been very patient and persevering to
accomplish so much. There was a very nice
quilt made by the Association, which we are
going to donate to the Deseret Hospital; there
were also pies, cakes and bread made by both
boys and girls that were well worthy of praise.
After viewing the articles all were seated, the
house being hardly able to hold all that were
there. They were then entertained with songs,
dialogues, recitations, speeches, etc, by the
children until one o'clock, when a sumptuous
picnic was served to all in the house. Prizes
were then awarded to the children.
	At three o'clock the house was cleared, and
the children enjoyed themselves until five
o'clock in the dance, during which they were
regaled with candy. All expressed themselves
well satisfied with their day's enjoyment.
	Wishing for the success of your valuable lit-
tle paper, and the welfare of the Primaries,
			We remain your sisters,
				MINERVA PRATT, President,
				ELEANOR OWENS, Counselor.

GRAHAM, PINE P. O., ARIZONA.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	On the 21st of last September our stake
president, Willmirth East, with her counsel-
or, M. K. Ransom, also Sister Carpenter, of the
Young Ladies' Society, came over to this place,
and we spent the evening very pleasantly.
	On the 22nd called a meeting and organized
a Relief Society. Sister Anna Jorganson,
President; Janet Anderson and Mary Petter-
son, Counselors; Mary E. Skinner, Secretary;
Mazibea M. Anderson, Treasurer; Lorina Wil-
son, President of teachers.
	The sisters gave us good counsel and advice.
Our meetings have not been so well attended
on account of sickness, as we have all been af-
flicted the past season with whooping cough,
malarial and intermittent fevers; also fever and
ague, and some have had very sore eyes, but
thank God
		"We are yet alive,
		And see each others' face,"
although some of them are rather long and
pale yet. We realize we are living in a day of
trials, and we do not expect to miss our por-
tion.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion and
the success of the EXPONENT,
		We remain, your's truly,
				ANNA JORGANSON, Pres.
				MARY E. SKINNER, Sec.

OGDEN.

DEAR SISTER:
	The ladies of the Relief Society of Weber
County held their conference in the Ogden
Tabernacle, Dec. 7th, 1883. After the usual
devotional exercises the minutes of the previ

[Column 2]
ous conference were read and accepted. The
presidents of the different branch societies gave
verbal reports of their respective wards, show-
ing them to be progressing in every way; the
members all striving to do their part in the
Kingdom of God.
	Sister Zina D. Young Smith then spoke to us
upon a variety of subjects pertaining to the
Gospel, explaining each, as only a true Saint of
God can explain His divine will, giving much
good and wise counsel to her brothers and sis-
ters present.
	Counselors Hattie C. Brown and Sarah Her-
rick and Apostle F. D. Richards also address-
ed the congregation, each expressing high and
noble sentiments in regard to the work of God
upon the earth in these days, which was lis-
tened to with great interest by the large con-
gregation.
	The conference adjourned for three months.
Closed by singing “The Spirit of God like a
fire is burning.” Benediction by Apostle F.
D. Richards.
	P. S. Please excuse this short report, and
me for not sending sooner, as I should have
done.			Respectfully,
						MONTA HARRIS.


MUSINGS

	As I sit to-night by the cheerful fire-side my
thoughts wander afar back, and I am led to
exclaim, "Oh, how I am blessed; what peace
surrounds me; all is calm and quiet; the angel
of peace is with me." I have just finished
reading some incidents connected with the
early history of the Church, and could not
help comparing the condition of the Saints in
those days, and their condition to-day. Then
they were driven before vile and wicked mobs,
hungry and cold, men, women and children,
who were doing no evil, but simply trying to
serve God. Oh! what a trial it must have been
to parents to see their little children suffering
with hunger, cold and sickness, as many of
them did. But how are we situated to-day?
Are we not greatly blessed in being permitted
to dwell in comparative peace? We really are,
and we cannot show too much gratitude to our
Heavenly Father for these blessings, for if it
were not for His power we would be swept
from the face of the earth, for aside from our-
selves, as a people, we have no friends on earth.
See how hard Congress is trying to deprive us
of our rights, and how we are being misrepre-
sented by evil and corrupt people; both by men
and women. For instance read accounts of
Mrs. Angie Newman’s lecture in Cincinnatti.
When I read such reports as she gives of us as
a people, it makes my blood boil, for I feel as
though the Lord would not censure us for re-
senting such gross insults; for are not such wick-
ed lies insults? I take them as such; and to
think that she would have the impudence to
offer to help us. Do we need her help, in fact
do we need the help of any of our enemies?
No, thanks be to God, we do not. She had
better help those who need her help; but I fear
she does not help many. I don’t think she is
charitable enough. If she was she would have
charity enongh to at least tell the truth about
us. Oh, how little they seem to understand
that they are sealing their own dooml Surely
they stand in need of our pity. We should
have the "moral courage" to stand all that the
wicked do or say against us. for we know that
God is at the helm, and He has acknowledged
us as His people, and also that if we would
serve Him that He would fight our battles.
Then how necessary it is for us to serve Him.
What a glorious reward awaits those who are
faithful even unto the end.
	Look at Oliver Cowdery, a man once high
in authority, who not only saw, but who con-


verzed with holy angels; and then to think that
he should fall. It makes me shudder, and I
wonder if I will be able to stand when the
great day of trial comes, for there will surely
be a day come when we will be tried to the
very heart’s core, and if we cannot stand the
trials, and fall, oh, what a fall it will be.
When on the other hand, if we remain firm
and steadfast, what a great reward awaits us.
My greatest desire for myself is, that I may
have firmness enough to stand true to my God,
true to myself, and true to my fellow men, and
that I may have wisdom to rear my children in
the way of the Lord.	
	We, as mothers in Israel, have a great res-
ponsibility resting upon us, for the Lord has
blessed us with our children, and we will be
held accountable for the care we take of them,
and we should be careful to set them a good
example, and counsel and reason with them,
and warn them while they are young of the
evils that they are surrounded with. We
should also be very prayerful ourselves, and
then we can teach our children to pray. If we
will endeavor to instill the principles of the
Gospel in their hearts and minds while they
are young we need not fear for them in the fu-
ture. I have heard children say that they are
never taught to pray, and yet their parents
pretend to be Latter-day Saints. Now, can
they truly be called such? Alas, I fear not!
and the day is surely coming when we will
have to be Saints in very deed, or we will be
cast out entirely. I do not care for the sneers
of unbelievers, all I want is the approval of
the Almighty, and to feel that He is pleased
with my efforts to serve Him. Some luke-warm
Saints, when they are in the presence of unbe-
lievers, have not the moral courage to say they
are what the world calls “Mormons.” Why
should they be afraid? Why not stand out
boldly and say they are “Mormons?” It would
give me pleasure to tell some of those pious
"Mormon" haters that I was not only a "Mor-
mon," but that I was a child, of plural marriage
that my life had been spent in that system,that I
knew nothing of any other kind of life, and
that I did not want to know anything else. I
can declare that to the world with great pride.
And are my children any the worse for my be-
ing born and married in that order?
No. They are just as perfect in mind and body
as any children I ever saw. Does it make me
doubt that principle because it is scoffed at by
the world? It does not. It makes me more
determined than ever. Nothing should make
us doubt the principles of life and salvation,
and if we can only live that order of marriage
the way the Lord desires us to live it, those
who reject and sneer at it will, in the next life,
be far beneath us.
	Then let us be faithful, and discharge our
duties heedless of the sneers of the wicked.
Ever praying for the cause of truth and suc-
cess of the EXPONENT, I remain,
	Your sister in the Gospel of Christ.
						AGGIE CHILDS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 151


[Column 1]
MISSONARY LETTER.

DEAR SISTER HELEN:

	It has been some time since I wrote you last.
Considerable of a change has taken place since
then, I was then laboring in Bland, Pulaski
and Giles Counties, but we were counseled to
discard that field of labor on account of such a
bitter feeling arising against us among a cer-
tain class and such indifference among others-
This feeling of enmity was so bitter in a certain
neighborhood that they burned a gentleman's
barn that had the audacity to keep us over
night in this Christian country, calling a mass
meeting, passing resolutions against us, etc.
We did all in our power to spread the Gospel
and to warn them of the calamities that would

[Column 2]
eventually come upon the wicked and ungodly
unless they repented of their sins and gathered
out from Babylon, but our testimonies seemed
to fall unheeded to the ground. We were un-
able to get places to hold meetings, as all
churches, schoolhouses, and even groves, were
closed against us. Therefore it was deemed
advisable by our president to change our field
of labor.
	We are now located in Bath Co. I will en.
deavor to give you a brief description of this
part of the country. I suppose it derived its
name from the mineral springs which are
found here; it joins West Virginia, and is loca-
ted on the very top, you might say, of the
Alleghany mountains, as the principal moun-
tain by this name running north and south di-
vides the two states; also the principal streams
which form the James River run through this
Co,; the most prominent among them being
Cow Pasture and Jackson's river. These
springs, the most renowned of them, are situa-
ted at the foot of what is called the Warm
Spring Mountain. The spring by this name is
located in a lovely cove, and is a beautiful
place to behold; a fine large hotel in the centre
of the grounds is surrounded by cottages for
the accommodation of families, beautiful lawns
laid off upon all sides materially add to its
beauty and attraction as a summer resort.
They can accommodate about four hundred
guests and are always full during the warm
weather. It is claimed these waters are very
beneficial in certain diseases. Opposite this
place stands their Court House, a fine brick
structure. Five miles south of this, following
the turnpike, we come to the renowned Hot
Springs, this is a more beautiful place if possi-
ble than the warm, besides the hot bath there
is the mud and sulphur bath, and others that I
am not acquainted with. The cures accredited
to these waters are almost miraculous, especial-
ly in cases of chronic rheumatism. They can
accommodate four hundred guests at this
place, and have everything for the comfort and
pleasure of their patrons. I understand the
principal owner of this fine property is Ben
Holiday of western fame. Five miles south of
this we find the Healing Springs. I have not
visited these so will not be able to give you a
description of them; but suffice it to say, their
waters are noted for their efficacy in the cure
of skin and blood diseases. There is also the
Bath Alum over the mountains, a fine place,
and has its share of business; people from all
parts of the world visit these places; it is a
sight to see the sick and afflicted that come
here in hope of being benefitted by the use of
these waters.
	We have done considerable preaching in this
neighborhood, and though met by bitter oppo-
sition, with the help of our Heavenly Father,
have been successful in bringing some into the
Church, and good prospects of others following
their example. At first churches and school-
houses were proffered to us, our appointments
were given out and our friends were numerous,
but this was of short duration, preaching in
those buildings is a thing of the past as they
have all been closed against us. A great
many of our so-called friends have turned the
cold shoulder, as you are aware, it is not popu-
lar to be friendly with the "Mormons;" but
there is a number left yet, thank God, whom
those base slanders which are circulated about
us only make more substantial, for they see by
our works we are what we profess. I find those
that are at the head in sowing broadcast
through the land these base falsehoods, are
men who profess to be ministers of the Gospel,
followers of the meek and lowly Jesus; but He
has left us a key whereby we can tell the gen-
uine from the counterfeit. "By their fruits ye
shall know them." Excitement is running
high against us a people, fanned into a fierce
flame, no doubt, by the President's message

[Column 3]
and various other publications. A great many
of Ann Eliza's books are in circulation here
and a great many swallow the contents as a
sweet morsel, and most vindictive are the
threats that are hurled against us on all sides,
but we care little about them; we put our trust
in God, knowing as we do that He is with us,
that we are in His service, and as long we do
our duty, keeping ourselves free and unspotted
from the world, He will preserve us from dan-
ger and death.
	We will continue here this winter teaching
and encouraging those that belong to the
Church and those that are investigating. We
hold our meetings in private houses, preaching
to small congregations. My health is excel-
lent and I take great pleasure in my labors.
Remember me to Uncle Horace, Aunt Mary,
and all the children, and also to inquiring
friends, not forgetting yourself.
		Your affectionate brother,
				NEWEL W. KIMBALL.


EXTRACT OF A LETTER.

CITY OF MEXICO, Oct. 13th, 1883.

	I have seen something of the world since
leaving home, its vanity, hypocrisy and infidel-
ity, and when I compare the condition of the
Saints with that of the people with whom I
come in contact every day, I cannot feel thank-
ful enough that the Lord led my parents to cast
their lot with that people despised of the world,
and that I have had strength thus far to follow
in their wake. I would rather be the most
humble Latter-day Saint with the blessings of
the Priesthood, and the hope which the Gospel
gives, than all the luxuries of life that wealth
and power can give without those blessings.
I can see no joy, no satisfaction, no security
outside of the Gospel the Lord has revealed to
us through the Prophet Joseph. His name is
had in reproach in all the world, even in this
benighted land, but though the world despise
him, and despise me for saying it, I glorify his
name and cherish his memory as one of the
greatest of God's prophets who ever lived upon
the earth, and anticipate with joy the day
when I shall, if I am faithful, see him in his
glory and exaltation far above those who now
malign him.

Oct. 16th, 1883.

	I waited at the post office last night until 12
o'clock, and was rewarded by receiving letters
from Libbie, Moroni and Brother Helaman
Pratt, and this morning from Brother Thatcher.
At 12 o'clock to-day I have a lesson to give,
and in the afternoon three others. I am very
thankful to receive letters, but it always
makes me homesick and lonesome to receive
letters from the folks.
	It seems that Satan has determined to do all
in his power to stay the progress of the work in
this land. Since the beginning of August we
have had much persecution and opposition to
contend with, but thanks to the Lord He has
given us strength also, equal to our day and
need, and I feel confident that He will contin-
ue to do so if we are faithful. Last Sunday
a man, who has tor some time attended our
meetings, applied for baptism, and yesterday
we complied with his wish. Several others
are in a fair way to join the Church soon, and
thus, through the blessings of heaven, we are
making some progress, while Satan howls. My
disposition is such that opposition seems only
to make me feel the more determined, through
the blessing of the Lord, to preach the Gospel
and warn the people, for I believe there are
many who would accept it were it not for their
ignorance of its principles and the instructions
of self-constituted priests and teachers, who
have taken upon themselves the right to teach
doctrines which they do not understand, and


thus they close the gates of heaven, so that
they nor those who would can enter.
	Give us the benefit of your faith and prayers.
Remember me to Sister Staines, Miss Mary
Cook, and any other inquiring friends. I sup-
pose cousin Heber is in Arizona, love to his
family and yourself.
			Your Nephew,
						A. W. IVINS.


[TO MRS. RACHEL R. GRANT.]


152	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ORNAMENTAL WORK.

	We have seen some very handsome speci-
mens of natural flowers from the funeral of the
late Presiding Bishop, E. Hunter, preserved
for the family by Mrs. E. D. Roundy, 1[-]th
Ward. Flowers preserved by her retain their
perfectly natural appearance and color; they
can be arranged in any shape or design re-
quired at about one fourth the usual cost of
flowers embalmed; an ordinary frame is all that
is necessary; they cannot be injured by extreme
heat or cold, and will retain their beauty and
color for fifty years or more.
	Specimens can be seen at her residence, 422
W., First North Street, Salt Lake City.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	"Mrs. Mary A. Livermore is addressing
large audiences in the West, and as usual win-
ning golden opinions."
	"Miss Helen Taylor is to write the biogra-
phy of John Stuart Mill for the series known
as 'English Philosophers'"
	"Mrs. Ann Greene Phillips, wife of Wendall
Phillips, has declined to act as executrix of her
husband's will on account of ill health, and
has requested the Judge of Probate to appoint
some one in her stead."
	"The Hoar Polygamy Bill" was passed over
in the senate on Tuesday, Feb. 26th, on ac-
count of that Senator being absent with an in-
vestigating committee in New Orleans.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.

VIENNA JAQUES.

	Another veterean has departed! one whose former life
was contemporary with the early history of the great
latter-day work.
	Sister Vienna Jacques, the subject of this obituary
article, who departed this life on the 6th of Feb., 1884,
was born in New Rowley, (now Georgetown) in the
State of Massachusetts, on the 10th day of June, 1787.
Almost a centennarian! She led an active and useful
life up to within a few years previous to her demise.
Coming to the city of Boston when she had reached
womanhood, in her self-reliant way, by patient toil and
strict economy, had accumlated considerable means for
those times. Always religiously inclined, she connect-
ed herself with the Bromfield Street M. E. Church in
that city. Feeling a lack In that communion to satisfy
the aspirations of her spiritual desires, she examined the
pretended claims of the most prominent religious sects
extant and failed to find in any of their powerless sys-
tems those gifts and graces which characterized the
primitive Church as recorded in the New Testament
Scriptures. Hearing of a Prophet who had risen up in
the then western wilds, and that he had published to the
world a sacred record containing the fulness of the Gos-
pel, she immediately sent for the book; having procured
the volume and cursorily glancing over its contents, not
comprehending at first its full purport, it was lain
aside. One evening (as she related) on returning home
from an evening meeting, she cogitated in her mind
what special subject should be selected for the theme of
her evening prayer. Suddenly on her way a vision of
the Book of Mormon was presented to her mind, and she
then resolved to ask the Lord to impress her in regard
to its truthfulness. She did so, and the consequence
was that after a careful perusal her mind was illumina-
ted to that degree that she was firmly convinced of its

[Column 2]
divine authenticity, and determined to make the jour-
ney to Kirtland, Ohio, which in those days of traveling
by stage coach and canal was an arduous undertaking;
but strong and concentrated in purpose, braving all
danger and trusting in the Almighty for protection, the
way was marvelously opened up, and she arrived safely
to the journey's end.
	At Kirtland, after receiving sufficient instructions
she was baptized. Made the acquaintance of the Proph-
et and returned to Boston—was the means of bringing
her aged mother into the Church, also her sister and
neices. She finally collected her means and gathered
with the Saints, and by her liberality rendered such pe-
cuniary assistance to the Church in its infancy that it
called forth the following revelation in Sec. 90, par. 28—
31:
	"28. And again, verily, I say unto you, it is my will
that my handmaid, Vienna Jaques, should receive mo-
ey to bear her expenses, and go up to the land of Zion.
	"29. And the residue of the money may be conse-
crated unto me, and she be rewarded in mine own due
time.
	"30. Verily, I say unto you, that it is meet in mine
eyes that she should go up to the land of Zion, and re-
ceive an inheritance from the hand of the Bishop,
	"31. That she may settle down in peace insomuch as
she is faithful, and not be idle in her days from hence-
forth."
	She received according to the above revelation her in-
heritance in Jackson Co.; passed through the early
trials and persecutions, and finally, with the exodus
from Nauvoo, drove her own team across the plains and
settled on the lot which was apportioned to her in the
12th Ward of this city; lived in her wagon the first win-
ter, and erected the house where she ended her days.
She was a person of marked individuality of character,
yet with all her peculiarity of temperament she was
true to her covenants and esteemed the restoration of
the Gospel as a priceless treasure. Her life was replete
with incidents which may be subsequently given in
greater detail.
	Toward the close of her life, owing to intense suffer-
ing consequent upon an accident and extreme old age,
her mental faculties were clouded and her speech quite
incoherent. Let us be charitable to the weakness of
frail mortality, remembering that

"He who knows our frame is just,
	Merciful, and compassionate,
	And full of sweet assurance
	And hope for all, the language is,
That He remembereth we are dust."
							GEORGE HAMLIN.


[Column 1]
For Sale at this Office.

BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.

PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,		-	25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,		40c.	"
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,		-		$1.00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, -	1.50	"

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
Office and residence, 11th Ward, No. 31, Seventh
East Street.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.

A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN O.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Caseimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE IS GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE, AND THROAT,
O[---]TRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence

[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER 1[---].

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
☞ We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

[Image of store]

HENRY DINWOODEY.

FURNITURE,
WALL PAPER,
CAPRETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, L[-]CE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUINS
AND WINDOW CORNICES,
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY.

F Auerbach & Bros.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
☞ CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 12.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15. 1884	No. 20.


ON A SEA SHELL FOUND IN RUINS
IN ARIZONA.

INSCRIBED TO B. A.

A broken sea shell—a simple thing—
To awaken the thoughts that so quickly spring
To my mind, as I hold up to the light
This broken shell of pink and white.

Bright as when free on the ocean wave
It rode ere entombed in the silent grave,
Where for ages past it has darkly lain—
And now 'tis brought forth to the light again.

Oh, would it could speak and the story tell
Of the People whose monuments stand so well,
Or even its own and its owner's fate—
Were they lowly born or of high estate!

Who gathered it first from the deep sea shore?
Lovers, may be, in the days of yore,
As they dreamed life's dream in that fair land,
Searching for shells in the shining sand.

Life, oh, life! what a strange, wierd dream!
How mysterious and hidden thy pathways seem,
As I stand by this tomb of the buried past,
And this link from its children musing clasp.

This mouldering ruin, what has it been,
A temple of God, or a dwelling of sin?
Were its inmates true to the Gospel light,
Or sunken in crime as dark as night?

Oh, the precious record—the book that tells
The story that still in oblivion dwells
To a worldly wise world, whose wisdom is vain,
When they seek of themselves God's works to make plain.

I have longed for a prophet of God to stand
Amid the ruins of this far land,
And I've prayed that mine own eyes might behold
The past, and I'll wait for the years to unfold

The Future, whose marvelous work has begun,
To cease no more 'til time's course is run;
'Til the sleeping past and the present meet,
And they together their Maker greet.	HOPE.


BE CAREFUL WHAT YOU SAY.

	This evening I have been reflecting over a
few things that have transpired during the
week, and I cannot help feeling a little sad.
	Thinking of the evils with which we are sur-
rounded, and the snares and temptations that
beset the path of the young and unwary, of
both young men and young women, who are
ignorant and inexperienced in the ways of the
world and its seducing influences.
	These are things which make my heart sad
and sorrowful; and again, I hear remarks made
like this: "O, well, you cannot expect anything
better from her, or from him, as the case may
be." Such remarks are uncalled for, and by
giving matters a little consideration these re-
ferences would never be made.
	We who know better, or ought to know bet-
ter, should show by our example and our walk
in every-day life "the better way," that we may
become the humble instruments in the hands
of our Heavenly Father to help reclaim these
poor, unfortunate creatures. If any of you,
my young friends, have uttered a harsh word
unthinkingly, do so no more; if you have it in
your power to lend a helping hand to fallen
humanity do so, and strive to lift them up if
possible to your own level. Do not forget that
there is more joy in heaven over one sinner
that repenteth, more than over ninety and nine
that need no repentance. And again, remem-
ber the injunctions of our Savior: "Do unto


others as you would that others should do unto
you." We none of us have anything to boast
of; it is only through the kind, protecting care
of our Father in heaven, and the powerful in-
fluences of His Holy Spirit. that we are pre-
served from the foul fangs of the destroyer.
	So be humble and prayerful, never forget-
ting to ask the Lord to continue His choicest
blessings unto you, that through your instru-
mentality, perhaps, some of the fallen ones may
be brought to repentance, and in a future day
become bright and shining lights in the King-
dom of our God and His Christ.
	M. F. C. M.


[Column 1]

SOME INTERESTING FACTS.

BY DR. E. S. BARNEY.

	Bathing may be considered from a two fold
point of view; as hygiene, or as a means of
preserving health, by keeping the skin in a
state fit for performing its functions, and as a
therapeutic agent of great power, or for the
cure of diseases.
	In a general sense it means the immersion of
the body in a fluid different in kind or temper-
ature from the common air. Water is the or-
dinary medium employed for baths, but vapor
and heated air are likewise in use for the pur-
pose.
	The great use of bathing must be obvious
when we consider that the skin is not to be re-
garded as a mere covering of the body, but as
an organ, the healthy condition of which is of
vast importance to the well being of the whole
frame, but especially of the stomach and liv-
ing membrane of the lungs, with which as mu-
cous membrane, it has the closest sympathy;
in which, if chronic inflamation exists, a cold
bath should not be used. When we consider
the anatomy of the skin, that in each papilla
of the skin is located the terminal extremity of
a nerve, then we can realize why a restless
child can so quietly sleep after the soothing ef-
fect of a short warm morning both; and a
tired, fevered man after a hard days work can
arise in the morning so refreshed and invigora-
ted, having had a cool or warm bath the night
before; it lowered the temperature, removed
the soreness of the flesh, the irritableness of
the nerves.
	The temperature of the human frame, in a
state of health, continues nearly the same in
whatever circnmstance it is placed. The tem-
perature of an adult is generally from 97° to
98 1\2°; the latter is called normal. In some
cases of disease it is above this standard, in
other conditions it sinks far below. The func-
tion by which the body is enabled to preserve
this uniformity of temperature are intimately
connected with the nervous system, and the
respiratory organs by which heat is developed.
The skin performs the function of regulating
it, especially in reducing it when too high.
When the body is placed in a medium, or low-
er temperature than itself, the heat is abstract-
ed more or less rapidly from the surface, which
would have the effect of chilling it were not
this counteracted by the internal development.
(Should never use cold baths at night after the
fatigue of the day, but warm water instead, as
the frame then requires soothing.) When sur-
rounded by an aëriform medium much higher
than itself, the exhalation from the surface,
both of the skin and lungs are greatly aug-

[Column 2]

mented; that from the skin being thrown off in
sensible and insensible prespiration, that from
the lungs in the form of vapor, the evapora-
tion attending these processes occasion a reduc-
tion of temperature. The quantity of water
thus disposed of in twenty-four hours is esti-
mated at 1 1\2 pints. The skin is capable of re-
moving, when acting in harmony with the laws
of life, in the same length of time, by the esti-
mate of Lavoisier, 20 oz. of waste; the reten-
tion of this from unchanged clothing and other
causes results in injury to the system; if this
channel is neglected it becomes dry and harsh
and unfit for its functions; some other organs
must then supply its place; as the kidneys, but
this organ may have too much to do, thus
working for both, and may become diseased;
in fact neglect of cleanliness is the most fertile
source of disease, both of the skin itself and
other parts. Cleanliness in our habitation is
as necessary to health as personal cleanliness.
Some people are too indolent to bathe at all,
and some at different times of the day before
and after breakfast, another will persist in tak-
ing a cold shower bath before breakfast; it may
thus invigorate or debilitate. There is a pro-
cess in the system which is called the excreting
process; now if this is deficient in its action and
a retention in the system from closed pores,
and a glued substance over those pores, then
the health becomes impaired. Remove the
scales of the dead epidermis and the effete ma-
terial and prevent its absorption, and keep the
pores open, especially in fever; then apply oil
to soften the skin and allay irritation of the
nerves and aid nutrition by absorption.
	The sea ebbs and flows twice a day, but the
great river of life ebbs and flows once in twen-
ty-four hours, attaining its maximum height at
12 m., and its minumum at midnight, hence,
at 11 a.m. is a good time to take a bath before
dinner. 
	How often should a healthy person bathe?
Twice a week in winter months, and every
other day in summer months. Young child-
ren breathe but imperfectly through the lungs,
hence, depend on the skin for a portion of the
arëation of the blood, and they should be
bathed every day in warm water, in a warm
room, and not exposed to cold, always using the
thermometer, for if too hot water is used it wiil
be very depressing. Delicate, feeble persons
of all ages require a higher temperature of a
bath, and a shorter stay in it than others, as
85° or 90°. Baths, when properly conducted,
are a luxury, and a child will crave it and
leap from its mother's lap with joy on its ap-
proach; it only injures them by improper appli-
cation; hence, children should be accompanied
in their baths with an adult, in order to regu.
late the manner of their bath. From the child
that has his face and neck washed every morn-
ing in cold water you seldom hear a complaint;
But a person wearing the "boa," and is doubly
wrapped is constantly exposed. View the sai-
lor, who accustoms himself to an open collar,
his skin is prepared to resist exposure of the
open sea. Nothing is better to harden and
toughen the tender skin than water and air;
this fact being recently considered, the surgeon
does not hasten to wrap, but exposes the ex-
tremity of an amputated limb. The cold bath,
when used by a person in health, increases the
tone of the habit, strengthens the digestive or-
gans, and by diminishing the sensibility of the
whole system, especially of the skin, ren-
ders it less susceptible to atmospheric impres-


[Column 1]

sions from cold, wet and sudden changes of
temperature—thus contributing to what is
termed a robust, or athletic constitution;
hence, the beneficial effects of using a cold bath
daily, and that in the early morning when just
out of bed by surgeons, and those exposed to
frequent changes of climate. The coldness
and length of the bath should be used accord-
ing to the vigor, and debility, and age of the
person. When the shock, as a stimulus to the
nervous system in case of debility, is the prin-
ciple desired, the water should be very cold,
and the time of remaining in the bath only mo-
mentary; the water may be even dashed on,
and immediately and thoroughly dried to bring
on the reaction; by reaction I mean a sensation
of warmth, after the cold of the first immer-
sion. The fluids are repelled from the surface
to the internal organs, which are thus stimula-
ted and roused to action, in consequence of
which the blood is propelled through the whole
capillary system, more particularly of the sur-
face, carrying with it life and renovated ener-
gy. At first the skin shrinks, becomes cooler
and paler, and the respirations are more hur-
ried than before; but this is almost immediately
succeeded by an equally universal sensation of
warmth, or a reaction; if the water is left be-
fore a second attack of cold or chill the pulse
becomes fuller and stronger than before immer-
sion. The skin recovers the plumpness it has
lost, and is succeeded by a feeling of buoyancy,
and an increased animal power. No second
glow ever succeeds the second chill, above men-
tioned, but the debility increases with the
length of immersion.
	A cold duck is sometimes used to sluggish
ulcers.
	If to obviate the shock instantly applied to
the body, and the object is to obtain a refresh-
ing action as in febrile diseases, and inflammation,
water should be applied at first, not suddenly,
only cool and with a sponge, repeating the ap-
plication till the desired effect is produced.
	The amount of reaction depends on the cold-
ness and length of time. One says that a cold
bath is stimulating; another a sedative, or even
debilitating; so it may be, but the truth is, it is
the mode of using it; whether salt or fresh, hot
or cold, and the condition of the patient, the
time of a bath should not be more than ten or
twenty minutes. After a cold bath there
should be a reaction, if not it is injurious; if
the strength of the patient is exhausted then
it would be debilitating; while to another, in
full vigor, it would be a tonic in the highest de-
gree, and this is in proportion to the vigor of
the circulation on the surface. With feeble
circulation and cold extremities, should not
use the cold bath, unless improving the circula-
tion and warmth, before entering by an inter-
nal remedy or exercise. The whole effect of a
bath may be distinguished into, 1st, the shock,
the effect of which is stimulating; 2nd, the cool-
ing effect; 3rd, the counteracting or astringent
effect; 4th, the reaction.
	Cold bathing may be applied so as to insure
one or the other of these actions over any of
the rest, according to circumstances, when all
are not desired. The most important circum-
stance respecting a bath of any kind is its tem-
perature.
	Cold, sea bathing is a sedative, an indirect
tonic. The warm bath is a relaxant. The hot
bath a stimulant.
	Cold bath is from 33° to 60°; cool, from 60°
to 70°; temperate, 75° to 85°; tepid, 85° to 92°;
warm, 92° to 98°; hot, 98° to 112°; vapor, 100°
to 130°, and upwards. Tepid bath, used for
invalids and children, and for cleanliness, 20
or 30 minutes. Warm baths are slightly stim-
ulating, then soothing, and allay irritation of
the nerves, mends the pulse and appetite. Hot
baths are a powerful stimulant and one should
never remain in till exhausted; 5 or 10 minutes
arouses the nerves and general vital action.

[Column 2]

	Time of a bath for young children, 3 min-
utes. A child at 20 weeks, the temperature
should be above blood heat, 98 1/2°, or not less
than 92°. At 10 months, 90°. At 8 or 10
years, not below 78°, which is considered sum-
mer heat. In a high fever a person can be lift-
ed in a sheet and laid in a cold bath at 90°,
and cooled down to 68°, or about 20° less than
when placed in; it then produces the cooling ef-
fect instead of the shock, which might produce
too great a reaction for a debilitated person if
at once placed into the cold. Water can be
sprinkled on them from a watering pot, while
they are lying on an oil cloth, and hot bottles
can be placed at the feet at the same time. If
heat is abstracted from the body too rapidly it
may cause an exhausting effect on the part of
the system to keep up the temperature.
	One German professor said, when the pa-
tient's temperature was 104° to put them into a
bath of 94° and reduce it to 68°. Another
said, put them in 10 minutes, at 68°, and re-
peat it so as to keep down the temperature.
	In Vienna hospitals they put a patient into a
bath of 65° for 20 or 30 minutes, and repeat it
seven or eight times in twenty-four hours, and
it was reported that it was a very successful
treatment. If there is slight chilliness felt the
patient must be moved immediately to a warm
bed. Some of the hospitals in Germany put
their patients into a bath and let them stay so
long that the skin is fairly parboiled in appear-
ance. Rain water is nice for a bath, or a little
soda added to our common running water for
a soft bath. Bathing to prevent disease as a
medicine, it can be used as a tonic, a cool spray
regularly applied so as to produce the tonic ef-
fect. Heat, suddenly applied, will cause mus-
cular contraction. A nerve in a muscle dip-
ped in water 110° will contract violently.
Baths, as means of administering medicine, by
placing in the bath such substances as will
stimulate the skin. As an antipyretic cold
bath, vinegar has a good effect. Friction baths
can be used wet or dry—dilute alcohol, ammo-
nia, a little red pepper, either will be accept-
able. Keep a bottle filled with alcohol, sprin-
kle a little on crash, made in the form of
gloves, and with them rub the body, one's self
or by assistant. Some patients are chronic, or
aenemic, and too weak to produce a glow by
friction, then it must be done for them; for if
the glow is not produced after a bath it does
harm. Massage has proven to be of great val-
ue, sometimes, in cases of dyspepsia; the pa-
tient needs active action. Formerly cold baths
in lung diseases and typhoid fever, were contra
indicated, but not now considered so; yet in
case of ulceration of the bowels in typhoid fe-
ver, the moving of a patient in bathing might
cause perforation and serious results, and a pa-
tient being low, then the shock might paralyze
the heart, and death, or the lungs might be-
come engarged by a cold bath, and death take
place. Immersion in cold water to a delicate
person is not without possible injurious effects,
and may be followed by depression. A deli-
cate person should take a good breakfast an
hour or two before bathing. Care should be
taken in this as in all other therapeutic agents.
Wine in some cases can be given, as it relaxes
the capillaries of the surfaces, and while the cold
bathe drives the blood internally and contracts
the capillaries, the wine may benefit in this
case by dilating the capillaries, and thus invit-
ing the blood to the surface.
	In pneumonia and pleurisy the Germans use
cold compresses. An acid bath is used in some
Heptaic (liver) disease, 3 pints of muriatic acid
and 2 pints of nitric acid; use 1/2 teacupful to 2
gallons of water. Mercurial baths are good in
some cutaneous diseases. Electric baths are
good in paralysis; they excite or stimulate all
the functions, especially the circulation and
secretion. Iodine baths to produce a aubefaci-
ent, sometimes even to the pealing off of the

[Column 3]

skin, 3 quarts of Iodine, and twice as much
of Iodite of Potash, to 1 gallon of water. 
Vapor or Russian baths, water is placed over
a hot stone, and a patient will pass from them
to a cool or cold bath with pleasure. Used in
rheumatism and cutaneous affections, or a hot
duck bath of 110°, in rheumatism is used.
Water baths are used as an eliminative in dis-
eases of the kidneys; nothing removes the
watery secretions more effectual than the Tur-
kish bath, used with care, nothing is better, un-
less it is a Gabaranda sweat. A Turkish bath
is where there is a gradual increase of temper-
ature, after which the patient undergoes sham-
pooning.
	The skin is to the man what the foliage is to
the tree; a vast, external lung, with millions of
pores, of glandules and of papillae, and an im-
mense net-work of arteries and nerves. It is
the complement and supplement of the internal
lungs. With the aid of the Turkish bath the
skin breathes and transpires in place of the
lungs. There is an analogy between the skin
and mucous membrane, as the internal skin is
a continuation of the external, at the continu-
ity of which the epidermis is changed to epith-
elium. The external skin, modified by the
Turkish bath, becomes the modifier of the in-
ternal skin; hence a bath modifies and im-
proves digestion.
	Sweaty hands and feet are improved by
bathing them in cold water and then rubbing
them with a small quantity of the Tincture of
Belladonna. Cold feet are inproved by bath-
ing them in cold water, then apply rapid fric-
tion.
	Cold Sit Baths are in some complaints brac-
ing or tonic, twenty minutes at a time. If on
taking cold there may be Uremie convulsions,
sometimes just before death, where crystals
form on the body. A man had these crystals
form on his mustache as fast as wiped away, he
had convulsions and died in a few hours.
Baths, then, should be used to remove from
the blood urea and uric acid, as they are pois-
onous. In Eczema a person will have oxylu-
ria; whether one is the cause of the other is
not proven, but there is a condition of the skin
that hinders oxydation.
	What of sea bathing? The amount of good
derived from these watering places is principal-
ly from the change of air and scenery, diet,
etc, more than the bath. The exposure to cold
and the unsuited temperature of the water, and
the long remaining in the water, and that, too, 
sometimes when the body is over heated, is
positively injurious. Sometimes it has result-
ed in congestion of the internal organs, cramps
and spasms of some of the muscular organs, or
the muscles themselves, and in some cases pa-
ralysis of a greater or less portion of the body,
and the rays of the hot sun on the head while
in the water is also deleterious, sometimes pro-
ducing what is called sun stroke, and this may
result in paralysis. On the whole more harm
results from sea bathing than good, and young
people come in contact in these places with
a degree of immorality and vice. Sea bathing
is more beneficial where the water is shallow,
and has become warmed by the rays of the sun.
	A person bathing all over is less liable to
take cold than when only a portion of the body
is bathed. A sponge bath and a shower bath
are similar in effect. In no disease is a cold
bath more beneficial than in the intervals of
asthma. The chest may be sponged daily with
water, or vinegar and water; with friction it is
also good for common cough—but not suited
to those who have a tendency to consumption.
Its principal action is a preventative of catarrh
and cold. The best time for a spray is on get-
ting out of bed, when there is no perspiration;
it increases the appetite and digestion. Spong-
ing is more proper for delicate persons than a
shower bath, its effect is nearly similar. Ex-
clude the cold air.


154	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE "SEE-SAW."

	This little poem was read by the author at an even-
ing's entertainment in the City of Washington in Feb-
ruary, 1877, at the residence of a minister of that place
The lady presented it to O. F. Whitney as a souvenier
of the evening. He was then on a visit to that city and
attended the soiree with and by the invitation of a lady
residing in that city, the aunt of James McKnight, who
showed him every possible attention, and treated him
with the greatest politeness. The poem is a sort of
reminisence to him of the pleasant days he passed in
Washington society.

	See-saw! see-saw!
You go up and I go down;
	This was the law of the old see-saw;
And the merry feet, with impulsive bound,
Sprang up as oft as they touched the ground;
	And you or I were in the sky
		In the days when we played see-saw.

	No need was there of the cunning, rare,
		That fashioned the modern toys,
A plank that was broad, and pliant, and long,
A friendly log, or a fence that was strong,
		And a bevy of girls and boys;
	And they rose and fell with their laughter's swell,
		Or balanced on equal poise.

	Those favored few, whose childhood knew
		The freedom of country law,
Can never forget the gleeful thrill
As they bounded aloft at their own sweet will
		Like a thistle-down, or a straw,
	Then sank like a kite from its airy flight,
		In their seat on the old see-saw.

	That happy day has passed away
		In the order of nature's laws,
And the log that bore our balanced weight,
And the plank that bent 'neath its merry freight,
		Have bowed to the same great cause;
	Yet you and I, now low, now high,
		Still tilt on the world's see-saws.

	In the pulsing heart of the busy mart,
		Where power is bought with gold,
There's a sink and a swell in the surging crowd;
There are curses deep, and plaudits loud;
		For the game is brief and bold,
	And while some ride on the crest of pride,
		Lo! others lie stark and cold.

	There rises and falls in yon gay halls
		The plank of our social life;
And who shall grace the patrician end,
And who the plebeian half shall bend,
		Is the problem of endless strife,
	In which nature's tie, though deep it lie,
		Is severed with pitiless knife.

	There comes, too, an honr, when the balance of power
		Is lost in the Senate Hall;
And reverend Senators, wise and grave,
Whose boast is their country's honor to save,
		With the see-saw rise and fall;
	And happy their lot, if perchance it be not
		To lie under oblivion's pall.

	How blest 'twould be, could we only see
		The world at balance ride!
So justly poised in genuine worth
That brains should always equal birth,
		When tested side by side;
	Then social see-saws well might be
		Exponents of equality.

	MRS. M. F. RICHARDS.


[Column 1]

WILLINGNESS TO BE TAUGHT.

	If there is a royal road to learning it must
certainly be found where there is a willingness
to be taught. Once find a willing pupil and
the principal stumbling-blocks in the pathway
of the teacher are removed.
	The greatest barrier in the high road of pro-
gress is unwillingness to learn. Hence the dif-
ficulty in educating mankind. There are
plenty of books; there is an abundance of
preaching; there is much good counsel, but
there are few willing learners. Teachers are
puzzled for methods to attract the attention of

[Column 2]

the young. The speaker who can magnetize
his audience so that they will listen to his pre.
cepts, although his knowledge may not be so
profound, will accomplish more universal good
to-day than the deepest thinker, or the wisest
philosopher who cannot infuse into his subject
the element of attraction.
	Thus, the recitation of a poem, the quotation
of a proverb, or the relation of an anecdote,
may convey a more useful lesson than a well
studied discourse, and the points and morals
will be much longer remembered. Who will
deny that the fables of Esop are deeper in the
universal mind than the sermons of Wesley or
the logic of Webster? And the quaint sayings
of the American humorist are household words;
while the philosophies of Socrates and Bacon
are dusty upon the shelves. The reason for
this is apparent. People would rather be a-
mused than instructed, and if we desire to
teach to-day we must first attract attention,
and then interest the listener. So wide spread
is the feeling of apathy on the subject of use-
ful information that the great principles of
science have to be woven into a romantic nar-
rative. Astronomy and atmospheric influences
must be conveyed to the mind through a jour-
ney to the moon, illustrated with gorgeous
wood-cuts, and mingled with the grossest im-
possibilities; and it is by this means that some
of the most renowned authors have found ready
sale for their researchers in science. Even the
Bible must be rewritten by a modern hand,
and the beautiful incidents of Scripture re-
lated in sensational paragraphs. History must
be condensed, and many of the important de-
tails omitted before our youth will undertake
its perusal. Thus the tendency of the age is
to be satisfied with a smattering of knowledge,
a few stray leaves from the tree of learning,
while they chase with eagerness the butterfuly
of pleasure. People must be caught with the
gilded hook of attractive romance before they
will partake of any substantial truth, or yield
to any solid reasoning.
	The love of learning is something which each 
must cultivate for him or herself, before they
can ever become versed in things that are. It
is true we learn much by experience and obser-
vation, but persons who have not a desire to
become instructed frequently allow the most
valuable lessons to pass unheeded. The suffer-
ings of others are not lessons to them, and even
their own sorrows frequently pass away and
are forgotten, without leaving the beneficial in-
fluence designed by the providence of God.
	With this condition of things in the world
around us how easy it would be for the child-
ren of Zion, who should have more foresight
and greater self control, to become the most
learned, and through the blessings of God, the
most wise and powerful of all people. Let us
heed the inspired counsels of God's servants,
let us walk in the ways of heavenly wisdom,
and be ever willing to receive instruction
through even the humblest instrument chosen
to convey it, and like the bee, that gathers hon-
ey from every flower, and stores it in the hive
for future use, so let us accumulate knowledge
from every appropriate source of information,
that our minds may be supplied in the hour of
need, that by a touch of inspiration the intel-
ligence of Zion may shine forth in a day to
come as a light to brighten the Gentiles, and
to be the glory of God's people—Israel.
	E. M. S.


[Column 1]
IMPROVEMENT IS OUR AIM.

MY DEAR YOUNG SISTDRS:
	I feel my inability for the task before me,
but at the same time I feel it a duty incumbent
upon me to try what I can do towards improve-
ment.
	We are members of this our Mutual Im

[Column 2]
provement Association, and as such it is our
duty to try by every means in our power to
improve onrselves, and by improving ourselves
we will, by the help of the Spirit of the Lord,
be better qualified to teach and instruct
others.
	This Association was organized especially
for the benefit and improvement of the young
folks, and there is now a duty binding upon us
to strive with all our might to cultivate our
minds and improve the talents our Father in
Heaven hath bestowed upon us, and if we
prayerfully ask for His guidance and direc-
tion in every matter He will help us. Our
faith will become stronger and our understand-
ings will be enlarged, and we will become more
able to comprehend the wise teachings of the
servants of the Lord from time to time as they
are laid before us.
	We have each of us obeyed the first princi-
ples of the Gospel and had hands laid upon
us for the reception of the Holy Ghost, and as
our minds expand we will be able to receive
greater blessings, and our understandings will
become enlarged, and by the aid of the Spirit
of the Lord we will receive line upon line, pre-
cept upon precept, here a little and there a lit-
tle.
	Let us try to faithfully discharge our duties,
neglecting none. "Remember our secret
prayers, for they will be a protection for us
over the powers of the evil one, and will help
us to overcome our imperfections and the weak-
nesses that doth so easily beset us." Do let us
observe the words of wisdom, as instructed by
the servants of the Lord. Their teachings
ought to be the word of the Lord to us, and it
is our duty to give heed to the same. Now is
the time for us to observe these things, while
we have youth on our side and no obstacles in
our path. Let us shun every appearance of
evil, or anything that would be likely to draw
us away from the truth. Cleaving unto right-
eousness with all our might and mind, showing
kindness to one another, and overlooking each
others' fanlts, and striving to uproot our own.
If we do this in the spirit of meekness and hu-
mility the Lord will help us, and our reward
will be great. Amen.				TINA.
	Manuscript Paper, The Gem, Mt. Pleasant.

MISCELLANEOUS.

	Anna E. Dickinson is to lecture on Wendall
Phillips in Philadelphia, in March.
	Memorial Meeting for Wendall Philips, un-
der the auspices of the Massachusetts Woman
Suffrage Association, was held in the Meoin-
aon, Thursday evening, Feb. 28. Ex.
	Ada H. Kepley, of Effingham, Ill., has ad-
dressed a circular letter to each member of the
Congressional Committee on Woman Suffrage,
appealing to him, as far as in him lies, to give
women the ballot.
	At London, March 1st, the bust of Longfel-
low was unveiled in Westminsler Abbey. The
ceremony was performed by Rev. George Broth-
ers, M. A., sub-dean of Westminster. Ex.
	The lullaby will lose none of its sweetness
when the voice accustomed to it shall carry the
claims of childhood into the councils of the
nation.—Julia Ward Howe.
	The portrait of Wendall Phillips, by E. T.
Billings, is now on exhibition in his studio,
Room 55 Studio Building, Boston. Mr. Sam-
uel E. Sewall and other old friends of Mr.
Phillips who have seen it pronounce it the fin-
est one in existence. It was taken about fif-
teen years ago, and represents him in the act of
addressing an audience. It ought to be bought
by the city, and a copy placed in Faneuil Hall,
as a life likeness of the great orator of the
woman suffrage and anti-slavery movements.
Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: [-]ne copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: each s[-]uare, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	MARCH 15, 1884.


[Column 1]
WASHINGTON CONVENTION

N W. S. A.

	The National Republican of Washington City
has published full particulars of the Woman's
Convention held in Lincoln Hall, March 4, 5
and 6 Miss Susan B. Anthony presided in the
absence of Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton.
Speeches were made and papers read by the
most noted and active suffragists from the differ-
ent states. Letters were also read from various
parts of this country and Europe, and a general
discussion of the question of political equality
was the sentiment of the entire convention.
	A grand reception was given to Miss Anthony
and her co-laborers at the Riggs House, Mrs.
Spofford, the popular and genial hostess, having
charge of the affair, which was a realovation to
the suffrage ladies, judging from the papers.
Several hundred people paid their respects to
these earnest, indefatigable workers for woman's
enfranchisement, among whom were Senators,
Representatives, litteratuers and those noted
in Washington society. An elegant lunch was
spread in an adjoining apartment, and the
whole affair was arranged to admirably as to
make all feel at their ease, and indeed was a
complete social success. Mrs. Spofford has the
quiet dignity and marvelous tact to carry out a
programme of this kind in the most approved
manner to please all and offend none.
	A large delegation of ladies from the conven-
tion called on Prest. Arthur, and paid their res-
pects to the Chief Executive of the Republic.
Judging from the telegrams, he treated them
with the greatest deference and courtesy, but
was severely non-committal in reply to their
suggestions about the question of woman suf-
frage.
	We are very sorry we have not space to pub-
lish more concerning this interesting conven-
tion, but will possibly give in our next issue the
preamble and declaration of principles. As Mrs.
Belva A. Lockwood seems to be the only one
who touched upon the subject of suffrage in
Utah, we will give an extract from her speech:
	Mrs. Belva A. Lockwood, whose appearance
and manner need no description in this city,
next spoke upon "The Proposed Disfranchise-
ment of Utah Women." The speech was large
ly a legal argument to show that the Edmunds
bill and the proposed bill to disfranchise women
were not only unjust and unfair, but in direct
violation of the Constitution of the United
States. The bills, she said, were all the result
of a morbid public sentiment intended to op-
press a gentle, harmless people, and furthered
by public men for purposes of their own. The
danger which threatened the women in Utah,
she said, also threatened the women of Wyo-
ming. The law proposed to punish the innocent

[Column 2]
with the guilty, the women for the crimes of the
men. The government of the United States,
she charged, had no more right to attack the
Mormon religion than it had to attack the Meth
odist or Catholic religions. The Mormons were
a law-abiding people until laws became so op-
pressive that they could not be borne. Running
along with Mrs. Lockwood's argument was a
sketch of the Mormon Church and a defense of
it. When Mrs. Lockwood declared that the
New York society, which believed in charging
husbands and wives at pleasure, had never been
disturbed or molested, Miss Anthony interrupt-
ed her and assured her that the Oneida commu-
nity had been broken up and Noyes had gone
away. Mrs. Lockwood then proceeded to show
how in many cases religious persecutions had re-
sulted in the glory of the persecuted, and she
likened the persecution of the Mormons by the
United States to the tyranny which Great Brit-
ian exercised over the American colonies before
the revolution. "It is profoundly to be hoped,"
she said, "that Congress will attend to its proper
business, and let Utah alone."
	Before introducing the next speaker Miss An-
thony said that the association had nothing to
do with the action of Congress in respect to
Utah, except where it was invidious to women.
Only when it is proposed to disfranchise women,
without touching the men, did the association
enter its protest. The general laws which Con-
gress proposes for Utah and the Mormons "is
none of our business," said Miss Anthony, and
the statement was received with loud applause.
Miss Anthony said she thought that Mrs. Lock-
wood had gone into a religious and industrial
subject which the association had nothing to do
with.
	Mrs. Lockwood replied, with some irony in
her tones, that she was sorry not to have suffic-
ient discrimination to see the difference between
injustice to men and injustice to women.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	A LETTER received from one of the largest
Printing and Book firms in New York City to
Mrs. Augusta Joyce Crocheron, speaks very
highly of her late enterprise, The picture and
book, "Representative Women of Deseret." We
give an extract from the letter:
	"I acknowledge with many thanks the receipt
of the picture and book.	*	I have read
the book carefully and with a great deal of inter-
est. Its contents are new to myself and most
other Eastern people. I have no doubt whatev-
er but that if the book was circulated and read
generally in the eastern part of the Union, a
very different opinion would prevail upon the
subject of Mormonism, as one cannot do else
than admire the zeal with which the good wo-
men mentioned have worked for the cause in
which they are interested.
	"That, however, has been woman's course ev-
er since the Christian era, and will no doubt be
to the end of time, quicker in grasping an idea
and working more zealously for it than man usu-
ally does.
	"When I say a different opinion on the subject
of Mormonism would prevail, I must except the
female portion of your community, as very lit-
tle but kindness is now felt for them, but if it
was known that so many excellent women were
contented with their institution and worked so
well for it, people might consider there was
some good in the system."
	SEE Mrs. Shipp's new advertisement in this
issue, and notice of removal to Main St. Mrs.
Shipp is a competent physician and a skillful
practitioner. She is admirrbly fitted by nature
and a thorough educational training to officiate


in her profession. She is a graduate of the
Women's Medical College in Philadelphia, and
although still a young woman has had several
years experience in the practice of medicine and
surgery.


TOPICS OF THE TIMES.

From the Juvenile Instructor—by the Editor.

ANNIVERSARY OF SISTER ELIZA R. SNOW
SMITH'S BIRTHDAY.

	Monday, January 21st, 1884, was the 80th an-
niversary of the birthday of Sister Eliza R.
Snow Smith, and a number of her lady friends
arranged for a birthday party to be held in the
Social Hall. There were upwards of 200 persons
present on the occasion, all prompted to be pres-
ent by a desire to do honor to the vanerable la-
dy. The occasion was most interesting, and
the time was spent in making brief addresses,
giving recitations, songs, etc., supper was also
served to the guest.
	Old age is beautiful when combined with
physical and mental preservation. This is the
case with this venerable lady. She is capable
of undergoing an amount of fatigue that would
tire many woman half her age, and her mental
faculties seem to be in full vigor. Under such
circumstances life is a pleasure.
	Her life has exhibited, as fully as any wom-
an's in the Church, what can be done by deter-
mined purpose, guided by wisdom. Sister Eliza
R. Snow Smith has made her mark in her gen-
eration. Always a busy woman, her late years
have been crowded with labor, the fruits of
which, I believe, will be felt for generations to
come. It has been a time of organization, and
she and her co-workers have had a splendid
field in which to labor. The Relief Societies,
the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Asso-
ciations, and the Primary schools have all been
benefitted by her counsels.
	The meeting on Monday evening was a most
suggestive one in many respects. It is not too
much to say that we are engaged in laying the
foundation of a new civilization, and the ladies
of our people, of whom Sister Snow Smith is
the leader, are performing a noble and wonder-
fully influential part of the work. The impres-
sion throughout Christendom is that woman's
education and elevation are incompatible with
the system of plural marriage; that where that
system prevails woman's degradation is sure to
follow; that she must of necessity occupy an in-
ferior place to that which her sex fills under the
system of monogamy. These ideas are derived
from the position occupied by women of Orient-
al lands, and one of ihe chief arguments used
with women to excite their prejudices against
the system of plural marriage has been of this
character. Reflecting men and women have
denied that such results were the inevitable ac-
companiment of plural marriage. It has been
repeatedly asserted that there was no good rea-
son why woman should not progress and main-
tain her position side by side with man under
the system of plural marriage, and be developed
to fully as great an extent as under the mono-
gamic system. In fact philosophic thinkers a-
mong us have perceived that under the system
of plural marriage it was possible for woman to
achieve a higher position intellectually and as
the help-meet of man and the mother of his
children than she possibly could in monogamy.
Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith and her co-workers
are proving the truth of this. Already the pro-
gress of the sex in every proper direction in this
Territory is a cause of happiness and congratu-
lation to all who witness it. Plural marriage
has not degraded women in this Territory. It
is true that a dissatisfied, discontented, unhappy
women, whether in plural marriage or in mon-


[Column 1]

ogamy, makes no progress. She droops and
sinks under imaginary, but what to her are real
tonbles, and she ceases to be a factor of any im-
portance in the body politic. A woman so con-
stituted, whether the only wife of one man, or
the plural wife of a man, is alike unhappy. But
where women exercise their powers and culti-
vate self-reliance, leaning upon God for the
strength which He is ready to give, the oppor-
tunities for development under plural marriage
are greater than usually afforded under the sys-
tem of monogamy. She becomes, in some res-
pects, the head of her family, and from the na-
ture of the case is compelled to assume responsi-
bilities that under other circumstances she
would not feel. With a properly constituted
woman this calls forth her full powers. There
is a necessity for their exercise, and she rises to
the exigency of the position and exhibits a
strength and power which surprises herself as
well as those who are around her. She ceases
to lean upon man to the extent that she would
do were she not compelled to assume the duties
and responsibilities connected with the charge
of her children and her household. Experience
is gained; strength is developed; the power of
governing is called into exercise; selfishness and
self-ease are sacrificed, and the perfect type of
womanhood is brought forth.
	I believe that to-day there are to be found in
this Territory more of these perfect women for
the number of our population than can be found
anywhere else in the world. Grand, noble, un-
selfish women have brought their weaknesses
and their inclinations into subjection to the
higher law of God and have obtained a strength,
dignity of character, and superiority of manner,
that lifts them up above the ordinary level of
her sex. They stand on a higher plane, and
are fitted, by the conflicts which they have en-
dured and in which they have triumphed, to
become the fitting partners of intelligent, intel-
lectual and pure men.
	These are the results which are being wrought
out in this Territory; not so rapidly as to call
forth surprise, but still to the observant so rap-
idly as to give promise of a glorious future.
Women in this Territory have a grand sphere of
usefulness opened for them. They labor in a
field to which there is no bound. Their oppor-
tunities for usefulness are unequalled, and in
every legitimate labor which they undertake
they have the aid and the encouragment of the
other sex. The incentive to become intelligent,
to comprehend principle, to be strong, is great-
er here than in any other community that we
know anythiug o[-], and 1 am gratified to see that
our sisters are availing themselves of the grand
opportunities which are furnished them for use-
fulness and progress. The effect of their exam-
ples upon the rising generation will ba of im-
mense value, and as the generations roll by no-
bler types of womanhood will be developed, un-
til the penalty laid upon woman in the begin-
ning, that "thy desire shall be to thy husband
and he shall rule over thee," will be repealed,
and she will stand side by side with man, full of
that queenly dignity and self-control which will
make her his suitable companion rather than
his inferior.
	Much of the intellectual movement among our
sisters is due to the example and influence of
Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith. She and her co-
workers have labored diligently to elevate their
sex and inspire them with an ennobling aud ho-
ly ambition. That which they are doing to-day
is not valued as it will be in days to come. It
will require the historian of another generation
to award them the credit that is due to their
self-sacrificing and loving labors. But the cred-
it due to them, however long it may be post-
poned, will yet be given them, and their names

[Column 2]

will stand out bright in the annals of this peo-
ple in the day of power yet to come.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

RELIEF SOCIETIES ABROAD.

		BERNE, Switzerland.
	Thinking it might interest the readers of the
EXPONENT to know something about the doings
of their sisters in this foreign land, I have pre-
pared a brief report of the organizations at pres-
ent existing among the sisters of the Swiss and
German Mission.
	Though the advantages here for the working
of a Society are few and simple compared with
those possessed by the women of Zion, yet our
busy, industrious Swiss sisters lose no opportu-
nity of doing everything possible in the designa-
ted capacity, and are rapidly preparing them-
selves for the greater privileges which they hope
to enjoy when once gathered to the land, to
which their longing eyes are so often and so
earnestly turned. It will b[---] that such in-
stitutions are comparatively new in this com-
munity, and are consequently more or less of a
novelty, particularly as they give so decided a
contradiction to the idea that the Latter-day
Saint women are held in the most galling bond-
age, and have no rights and privileges whatev-
er. The Elders from Utah take great interest
in the prosperity and well-being of the Societies,
and encourage the sisters by attending the
meetings and imparting instruction and counsel
as it may be required, while the sisters on their
part feel very happy in their assembling togeth-
er, and seek continually to make progress in
the strict obedience of the commandments of
the Lord. I know less about the other Societies
than about this one in Berne; but I am assured
that not a few of the present members of the
Church here, heard the first testimony respect
ing the restoration of the Gospel, and received
the first prompting to give ear to, and embrace
the same, in the SISTER'S MEETINGS.
	As yet there are no Societies organized in Ger-
many, but they will, I am told, be speedily in-
troduced into the branches there as well as in
many parts of Germany where it has heretofore
been neglected.
	I submit herewith translated reports of the
Societies as published in the "Stern" of Febru-
ary 1st:
	The first Relief Society organized in this mis-
sion was that of Berne. It was organized by El-
der P. F. Goss, on the 30th of June, 1882. Not-
withstanding that it has lost many members
through the emigration, the Society still shows
a total membership of 39. Regular meetings
are held every fortnight; in one meeting the
sisters speak and bear testimony, and in the
other the sisters report the districts to which
they have been assigned. They impart instruc-
tions about caring in a better manner for the
household, and taking more pains in rearing
their families. In addition to these meetings,
work meetings are occasionally held. The last
report, dated the 14th of January, stated that
the cash on hand amounted to Frs. 26.32, and
they had had an outlay during the preceding
six months of Frs. 33.60. The officers are: Ro-
sina Stiener, President; Magdalena Meyer and
Maria Schneider, Counselors; and Sophia Kind-
lisbacher, Secretary.
	The Relief Society of Schaffhausen was or-
ganized by Elder Alvis Bauer, on the 5th of
February, 1883. Though a very small Society,
it has shown itself a very industrious and ac-
tive one. Since the organization thirty six
meetings have been held, most of which were
work meetings. The number of members is at
present but seven, yet through the untiring en-
deavors of the energetic president, Sister Burga
Haage, and those few sisters, much good has

[Column 2]

been done by this little society. They stare
with a working capital of Frs. 4.60, which they
have been able to increase nine fold. They have
extended assistance to some of their emigrating
members, and have purchased many useful
Christmas gifts for the needy children of the
branch.
	The Relief Society of Scherli was organized
on the 24th of September, 1883, by Elder John
Stucki. During their short existence as a socie-
ty they have held seven meetings, which have
tended to encourage and strengthen them, and
they express themselves as having much im-
proved by these meetings, and hope soon to hold
the work meetings and be better able to help
each other in different ways, as the other socie-
ties have done. There are now eleven mem-
bers, Elizabeth Michel is president; Eliza Kohl-
er and Katharina Michel, Counselors; and Anna
Eliza Michel, Secretary
	The Relief Society of Sinach was organized
on the 3rd of February, 1884, by Alvis Bauer;
there are ten members. The officers are: Bar-
bara Naef, President; Maria Freiz and Bacetta
Fischer, Counselors; and Rosina B. Bashardt,
Secretary.
	The Annual Conference of the Swiss and Ger-
man Mission was held in Berne on the 23rd and
24th of December, 1883, which were happy days
for the people of the Central, Southern and
Western Swiss branches. From all these differ-
ent parts the Saints had gathered in force and
had a glorious time together, singing the songs
of Zion, bearing testimonies and listening to the
valuable instructions imparted by the Elders.
The last evening of the Conference Dec. 24th.,
the sisters held their meeting. Eleven Elders
and one sister from Utah were present, and
there was a large attendance of Saints, besides
many strangers. Sister Steiner of the Berne
Society presided, and did so with coolness and
ease. Good and interesting testimonies were
borne, and words of encouragement offered by
the sisters in three different languages—the
English, French and German, to say nothing of
the different dialects of the latter, which might
almost be called so many more languages—all
of which made the meeting still more interest-
ing. They seemed no less delighted than aston-
ished to hear that in Zion a Hospital had been
founded under the auspices, and was conducted
by the sisters, and that efforts were being made
to teach the Lamanite Sisters cooking, sewing,
knitting, etc. Excellent remarks were also made
by the Elders, and it was, in short, a most en-
joyable evening, such a happy and delightful
spirit prevailing that the hearts of all seemed
filled with joy and praise. Before the close I
joined the Elders from Utah in singing an Eng-
lish hymn, which we had done several times
during that and the preceding day, and which
seemed to be much appreciated by our Swiss
friends.
	The great benefit flowing from these Societies
is consequently beginning to make itself felt
here. The Sisters are more united and feel
cheerful and encouraged as they see that wom-
an has also a part to play in this great latter-day
work. They have discovered that in times of
sickness and need they are much help to each
other, and the brethren, also, are forced to ac-
knowledge that such an institution, where
rightly conducted and in the fulfillment of du-
ty, is a great support to the branch to which it
belongs.
	In the Sunday Schools also the Sisters join
with the teachers in getting up amusements,
and have manifested much liberality in giving
of their time and means for the preparation of
feasts and presents for the children at Christ-
mas.	
	May the blessings of the Lord attend the Re-
lief Societies now in existence, as well as those


which may hereafter be organized, and that
great good may thereby be accomplished, is the
sincere wish and the prayer of one who shall ev-
er feel the greatest interest in the welfare of the
Relief Societies of the Saints.
	ANNIE W. CANNON.
Feb. 15th., 1884.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE NICKEL FUND

Editor Woman's Exponent:

	We wrote you some time ago in regard to the
"Widows Mite,"now comes neither the isn't 
nor the least, the "Nickel Fund."
	The subject of these few lines may seem rath-
er insignificant, but as
	Little drops of water, and little grains of sand,	
	Make the mighty ocean and the bounteous land,

so in this case, the fund in question has grown
to the magnitude of upwards of $2,300 00; the
origin and history of the fund being as follows;
Shortly after the organization of the Cache Val-
ley Stake of Zion in 1877, under the presidency
of Elder Moses Thatcher, he was moved upon
to inaugurate a temple fund among the Sunday
Schools of this Stake, which has proved a success
in every sense of the term. It has taught the
young the great principle of pemple building,
and united their interest with their parents, by 
putting their nickels to a better use than the
purchasing of toys and confectionary. The
names of several thousand children will be re-
corded in the archives of this temple, which
will gain them a common interest with their
parents and guardians. During the period of
time the temple has been in course of erection
it has become a household phrase when a child
became the possessor of a nickel or dime to hear
it say, "Pa, or ma," as the case might be, "I
shall give it to the Temple."
	What a beautiful sight indeed to have seen
so many Sunday School children in each Sun-
day School of this Stake of Z[-]on upon a Sabbath
morning, with the gleam of satisfaction upon
their faces, gracefully pay over their contribu-
tions to the treasurer of the Sunday School for
the purpose of aiding the temple.
	The above well illustrated and valuable prin-
ciples of unity has been achieved by the untir-
ing efforts of the officers and members of the
several Sabbath Schools.
	We contemplate when the temple is comple-
ted of publishing a lst of contributions of the
several schools of this stake, which we antici-
pate will be a good showing in their behalf, giv-
ing the youth of Israel quite an interest in the
temple, an appreciation of which is well illus-
trated in the following incident: When the
walls of the temple had reached the square, a
little boy—a Sunday School scholar—visited the
block and desired to go upon the scaffolds to look
at the building, the guard, however, had been
instructed to keep small children off the scaffold,
and so informed the boy, who replied that he
had paid his nickels to the temple, and thought
he had a right to go and see it. The argument
was irresistible, and the guard allowed him to
pass and feast his eyes upon the walls and scaf-
folding of the building, which he did with great
complacency.
	Yours Respectfully,
		C. O. CARD.
Logan Temple Office, Feb. 29th., 1884.


"Mrs. Ole Bull, with her little daughter
Olea, will visit Norway again this summer.
The young daughter of the great musician, a
girl of twelve years, inherits much of his geni-
us, and is already an accomplished performer
on the violin."


[Column 1]

A DIALOGUE.

	Characters—Mrs. Devenish, her two daughters, Lucy
and Marian, and Mr. Tom, a nephew of Mrs. Devenish,
a Mormon Elder and Parson Brown.

SCENE I. PARLOR

	(Lucy, Marian and Mr. Tom. Lucy sewing, Marian
reading, and Tom making funny shadows on the wall.)
	Mrs. Devenish. (Enters.) I see, my child-
ren, that you are pretty well engaged. I will
join you, and as we are likely to be alone this
evening, I think it will be profitable to review
the day that has passed into eternity.
	Lucy. Yes, ma, that will be very interest-
ing.
	Marian. (aside.) O dear! I thought I was
going to have such a good time reading this
new novel.
	Tom. (aside, with a comical glance at Mari-
an.) Now for a lecture from Aunt Susan.
	Mrs. D. Well, my dear Lucy, what good
have you done to-day?
	Lucy. Not much, ma; I often think of what
I read in the Bible: When I try to do good
evil is ever present with me.
	Tom. O, you naughty puss! did you not
take some nice beef tea to sick Mary Gray, and
help poor Granny Morris across the street?
	Marian. You know, Cousin Tom, Lucy is
always pretending that she does no good. This
appears to me like affectation.
	Lucy. It was so little, I had forgotten all
about it.
	Mrs. D. What are you doing now, Lucy?
	Tom. She is making a dress for little Lucy
Gray over the way; while Marian and I are
perfect idlers. Eh, Marian?
	Marian, (pouting.) I cannot imagine how
you can tell what I am doing, when you are
watching Lucy all the time.
	Mrs. D. Do not mind him, dear; we all
know cousin Tom. Tell me, Marian, how you
have spent the day.
	Marian. I finished a novel the first thing
this morning; then I looked over my dresses to
see what would be suitable to wear at Mrs.
Bond's party next week; and, ma, I have not
one fit to be seen.
	Tom. How now, coz, I thought the dress-
maker brought you home a gray silk last
week.
	Marian. Gray silk, indeed, I look a perfect
fright in it; and that reminds me that I saw to-
day a lovely blue at the dressmaker's. It will
just suit my complexion	Do, please, buy it
for me, ma.
	Mrs. D. If you need a new dress you may
have it.
	Tom. Then I am sure she will not get it,
for she has about a dozen now; many more
than Lucy.
	Mrs. D. What do you know about ladies,
dresses, Tom? Lucy can have one if she
wishes.
	Lucy. I do not need a dress, ma, but if you
will give me the money I will buy a shawl for
poor old Granny Morris; the weather is so cold
that she needs one very much.
	Marian. Pshaw! A shawl for Granny
Morris. I would be ashamed to dress as shab-
by as you do, to make people believe that I
was so much better than others.
	Mrs. D. For shame, Marian, your sister
does not dress shabby. She is economical, and
that enables her to help the poor. Lucy is al-
ways willing to sacrifice her own comfort to
benefit others. I am sure her motives are pure.
I wish you were more like her. But let us
change the subject. Cousin Tom, what mis-
chief have you done to-day?
	Tom. Let me see; I ran the chickens up the
hill to make them lay, rode the calf, and—
and—
	Marian. Ha, ha! I would like to see the

[Column 2]

chickens and calf. You must have taken a
ride on the ears this morning, cousin Tom.
	Tom. Aunt Susan, what do you think? As
I was coming home to-day I heard that a Mor-
mon Elder was going to preach in the Assem-
bly Rooms in St. George St. to-morrow night.
Do let us go and see what kind of people they
are.
	Marian. The newspapers say they are such
dreadful creature. I wonder what they look
like! Only think! they have more than one
wife! How shocking!
	Mrs. D. We must not believe all that the
newspapers say. I think we will go and hear
for ourselves. I am not satisfied with our re-
ligion. It is not like that which our Savior
and His Apostles taught.
	Lucy. But, ma, you would not leave our
church and the good old minister we have
known so long, for these despised Mormons?
	Mrs. D. I did not say I would; yet, my
child, I would receive the truth if I could find
it, even if it came from these depsised Mor-
mons.
	Marian. O ma! the papers say this people
are low and corrupt.
	Mrs. O; My, dear, our Savior, who was the
purest being that ever lived on the earth, was
despised and rejected, and was called a wine
bibber and a triend of publicans and sinners,
by religious people in His day.
	Marian. I know I love the the things of this
world and am not like you or Lucy; yet, ma, I
do not wish to see you led away by this people.
	Mrs. D. If the ministers preached the gos-
pel of Jesus Christ I would be satisfied; but
they do not.
	Tom. Aunt Susan, I am astonished to hear
you say so; I think they preach just splendid;
so much so, that I do not half understand what
they mean.
	Mrs. D. You are quite right, my boy. They
preach flowery sermons that they may please
the ears of the monied ones, and fail to give
comfort to the poor and those who are search-
ing after truth. Many of our ministers answer
well the description given of them by the pro-
phets, they preach for hire and divine for mon-
ey.
	Marian. What is the gospel?
	Lucy. The gospel is good news or glad ti-
dings.
	Tom. What is the good news, Lucy? I
suppose you can tell me, for I often see you
reading the Bible.
	Lucy. The Bible says that God so loved the
world, that He gave His only Begotten Son to
die for the sins of the world, that through the
shedding of His blood we may be saved.
	Tom. Have we not something to do our-
selves?
	Lucy. Yes; we must believe on the Lord
Jesus Christ.
	Marian. I have a faint recollection of read-
ing somewhere that we must repent and be
baptized. I am sure I do not know how to re-
pent. Do you, Tom?
	Tom. I repented very sincerely last week
that I had not studied more when I found that
James Brown instead of myself received the
long coveted prize.
	Marian. Please tell us, ma, how we are to
repent.
	Mrs. D. We must be sorry that we have
committed sin and be determined, with the
help of the Lord, that we will do so no more.
	Tom. I do not see why we need be baptized
when we were sprinkled in our infancy.
	Mrs. D. I have never read in the Bible
about baptism by sprinkling, but it distinctly
states, in many places, that those that were
baptized went down into the water.
	Tom. (yawning.) I'm so sleepy. Let us go
to bed.
	Mrs. D. Yes, it is time for us to retire, I
think we have spent a very profitable evening.


(Column one)
﻿Lucy. Will you go to-morrow night to hear
this Mormon preach?
	Mrs. D. Yes, my children, we will go. Let
us ask the Lord to give us wise and under-
standing hearts, that if this man has the truth
we may receive it.

SCENE II.

	The whole family discovered sitting round a table;
the ladies sewing, Tom looking on.
	Mrs. D. Well, my children, what do you
think of the Mormon Elder?
	Marian. Why, ma, he looks just like other
men.
	Lucy. I like his looks better than that of
some men. He seems so modest in his bear-
ing; so earnest and truthful, that I believe he
means just what he says.
	Tom. I certainly did not see anyhorns or
cloven feet.
	Mrs. D. This evening, my children, was the
first time I ever heard a true gospel sermon—
the same principles that our Savior and His
Apostles taught.
	Tom. But, Aunt Susan, these Mormons be-
lieve in prophets, apostles, and in revelation.
I thought these things were done away.
	Mrs. D. So we have been taught to believe.
I have read the Bible from my childhood, and
it does not inform me that these things were
done away.
	Lucy. Their belief in revelation pleased
me. It is very pleasant to think that the Lord
has not entirely forgotten His children. I
think the Elder showed very plainly that the
Christian ministers have no authority from
God to preach the gospel. There is evidently
something wrong in the teachings we have re-
ceived.
	Tom. What do the clergy care, if they can
please the rich. No matter how corrupt their
congregations are, these ministers, in many
cases, will wink at their vices, if they are well
paid. Well said, my boy. I think, Tom, you
must have studied these things more than I
gave you credit for.
	Lucy. The young man told us that an angel
appeared to their Prophet, Joseph Smith, and
gave unto him the power to preach the gospel,
and that he also gave him some gold plates,
from which he translated the Book of Mor-
mon.
	Marian. He said this book contained the
history of the American Indians, a people who
were once called Nephites and Lamanites. He
also spoke of an angel whose name was Moro-
ni (hesitating). He was a nice looking young
man. Was he not, Tom?
	Tom. Who, Marian? The angel or the
Mormon Elder?
	Lucy. Do be serious, Tom. There's a good
boy. People say the Mormons do not believe
in the Bible. I am sure they do, for he had
one in his hand to-night, and read from it.
	Tom. Yes, and he proved pretty plainly
from it the truth of what he said.
	Mrs. D. I believe he told the simple, hon-
est truth, and I bless him for it.
Mariau. I have been told that the principal
thing these Mormons teach is a plurality of
wives; I am sure I did not hear him say any-
thing about wives to-night.
	Lucy. Indeed he did not! He said he was
an Elder, sent to preach the gospel of Jesus
Christ.
	Marian. And that he preached without
purse and scrip, as did the disciples of old. The
only pay he expected was the blessing of his
Heavenly Father and the approbation of the
Priesthood.
	Tom. Poor fellow! I wonder where he
will stop to-night, (putting on his hat.) Aunt
Susan, I will go and find him.
	Mrs D. Stay, Tom! You would not find
him to-night. You may do so to-morrow.
When you do find him, if he has no home, we

[Column 2]
will make him welcome while he stays in these
parts.
	Marian. Oh, ma! What will the neigh-
bors say if you take in a Mormon? I would
be ashamed to meet Parson Brown.
	Tom. O, bother the neighbors and Parson
Brown! Who cares what they say? (appears
to be thinking.) May be the poor fellow has
had no supper.
	Mrs. D. We wish to serve the Lord and not
our neighbors. As for this young man, we will
leave him in the hands of the Lord to-night.
	Lucy. I wonder if he has a mother and sis-
ters, and if they pray for him now he is away
from them. It must be dreadful to travel and
preach without any money.
	Mrs. D. Our Savior told His disciples to
do so; they were not to take even two coats, for
He said the laborer was worthy of his hire.
	Tom. Now, Aunt Susan, tell me how a fel-
low can live without money. When I see him
I will give him some.
	Mrs. D. I believe this young man to be a
servant of the Lord. He will inspire some
honest soul to see to his wants to-night, just as
He has given you the will to do, Tom.
	Tom. I will go and try to find him the first
thing in the morning. He is just about my
age; what a good time we will have.
	Lucy. Yes; there’s a good cousin Tom; be
sure and try hard to find him.
	Marian. I do not need the blue silk dress,
ma, the gray one will do; you can give the
money to this young man.
	Tom. Bravo, Marian! I see your heart is
in the right place. What a pleasant time we
will have; will we not, girls? Now for bed.
(Exit.)
				Scene III.
Mrs Devenish and danghters seated and conversing.
(Enter Tom with Mormon Elder.)
	Tom. Aunt Susan, I have found the Mor-
mon Elder. Mr. Day, allow me to introduce
you to Mrs. Devenish and the Misses Devenish,
my aunt and cousins.
	Mrs. D. We are pleased to make your ac-
quaintance. Mr. Day, pray take a seat.
	(M. Elder bows and takes a seat.)
	Mrs. D. We heard you preach last night,
and my nephew, Mr. Tom, was anxious to
make your acquaintance and have you visit us.
In fact, we were all interested and wished to
hear more.
	M. E. I shall be most happy, madam, to
impart to you any information that is in my
power to give. Have you not heard much
concerning us as a people?
	Tom. Indeed we have. If we were to take
the papers for a guide, we would think you
a very wicked people.
	M. E. You would, indeed, sir. But the
newspapers say a great many things that are
false. The facts are, those who write these ar-
ticles in the papers know but little about us as
a people, and do not care to inform themselves,
I think sometimes, for fear of knowing the
truth. It has become the fashion to talk and
write against the Latter-day Saints, and our
enemies would die of ennui were these sensa-
tions to cease.
	Tom. Ha-ha. Mr. Day, you have them
there. I think that many in the fashionable
world are becoming very shallow minded.
	Mrs. D. You will pardon me, sir, if I ask,
have you a home? My nephew wishes to ex-
tend to you the privileges of our home and al-
so of his friendship.
	M. E. I am very grateful to you and Mr.
Tom. For the present I have a home among
our people; but I would be very pleased with
the friendship of your nephew, and also of
yourself and daughters, if you will so honor
me.
	Mrs. D. My young friend, you will always
find a welcome at my house.

[Column 3]
Lucy. Pray, sir, have you a mother and sis-
ters?
	M. E. Yes, miss; and the welcome you have
given me reminds me very much of them.
	Lacy, They must be very anxious on your
account, when you are so far away among
strangers.
	M. E. If they consulted their own feelings
they would prefer to have me at home. But
we believe in preaching the gospel to the
world, and the young are better able to go
than the old. Besides, I am in the hands of
the Lord, and my friends have faith that I will
return in safety.
	Mrs. D. It is a great blessing, Mr. Day, to
have the prayers of a kind mother and sisters.
	M. E. Indeed, madam, I realize that every
day. I believe that through their prayers I
find many friends I would not without them.
	Marian. (excited.) O ma, here is Parson
Brown! O dear! O dear! what will we do?
	Tom. Well, what of it, cousin? I expect
we can live through the storm.
	M. E. Madam, perhaps I intrude; allow me
to retire.
	Mrs. D. No, no! I am the mistress of this
house; keep your seat, Mr. Day.
	(Enter Parson Brown.)
	Parson Brown. Good morning, my dear
madam, I hope you are well; also the young la-
dies and Mr. Tom.
	Mrs. D. Quite well, thank you, sir; please
take a seat. (hands him a chair,)
	P. B. My dear lady, I have been very anx-
ious about you, I heard that you went to hear
those dreadful Mormons preach last night. I
have been wrestling with the Lord ever since
daylight, that He might save you from those
wicked people. I have come to warn you a-
gainst them. They are so cunning, they will
throw a spell around you, madam, and be-
witch you. For the sake of your lovely
daughters, my dear lady, he warned in time.
(still standing and wringing his hands.) They
will marry you and your daughters to one
man. Oh, horrible!
	Mrs D. My dear sir, pray be seated and
do not excite yourself. Nothing serious has
happened, I can assure you.
	P. B. (with a groan.) Nothing serious; did
you not go and hear those wicked Mormons?
	Mrs. D. Certainly we went and heard those
dreadful Mormons, as you call them. But I
did not see or hear anything very dreadful. I
saw a good looking young man, and heard him
say many good things.
	P. B. Think, my dear lady, of the poor
dear departed, your worthy husband. With
what sorrowful eyes he must be looking down
at you at the present time. Besides, these
Mormons have a new Bible. They do not be-
lieve in the blessed Jesus. They are a black
spot on creation. 'They are the—the twin rel-
ic.		
	Tom. You make a grand mistake, Mr.
Brown, their Bible is the same as ours. They
not only believe in bur Savior, but they preach
the. same doctrine as He did. (aside.) That
is more than I can say of you, Mr. Long face.
As for the twin relic, I believe they are the
twin relic of the ancient Apostles.
	Lucy. Indeed, they are, Mr. Brown. For
they have prophets and apostles, and believe in
revelation.
	Marian. Yes, sir, they believe in the Bible
and preach from it. Is that very wicked, sir?
	P. B. I see, my child, you are all be-
witched. (turning round he sees the M. E.;
eyes him suspiciously and starts forward.) Ah!
Who have we here?
Tom. (bowing low.) Mr. Brown, allow me
the extreme pleasure of introducing to you Mr.
Day, a Mormon Elder from Salt Lake City.
Mr. Day, our respected minister, Mr. Brown.
	P. B. (in a great rage.) What! a viper in
this very house! Madam, how dare you—


[Column 1]
	Mrs. D. (with dignity.) Sir, you forget
youself. I dare anything in my own house.
	P. B. (cringing.) My dear lady, forgive
me. In my great love for you, I did forget
myself. But it is dreadful to think that my
sheep must be eaten up by these ravenous
wolves.
	Tom. (aside, pointing to M. E.) He is
afraid that this wolf will eat up all his good
dinners.
	Mrs. D. I am quite capable, Sir, of taking
care of my own affairs. As for the wolves, I
think it is vice versa in your case.
	(M. E. seems to be enjoying the scene huge-
ly.)
	P. B. Mrs. Devenish, consider the awful
position you are in. Think of the many years
you have sat under the voice of a servant of
God, (weeping.) your old minister. (holding
out his hands beseechingly to Mrs. D.) Turn
this man from your house; let him not contam-
inate your pure daughters, nor endanger the
morals of Mr. Tom. O, I tremble for your
safety.
	Lucy. Sir, we are not afraid of this young
man. He does not look so very monstrous.
	Marrian. (aside.) I do not think he does.
	P, B. My dear, you do not know them as
well as I do.
	Tom. Do you know them Mr. Brown?
Have you been much in their company?
	P. B. (holding up his hands in horror.) I
know them! much in their company! (with a
groan.) The Lord forbid. This is the first time
I ever saw one. I pray it may be the last.
	Marian. Why, Mr. Brown, I thought you
said you knew them.
	P. B. (confused.) H-m—My child, I have
heard and read so much about them,
	Tom. Pshaw, is that all?
	Mrs. D. Being a minister of the gospel and
a follower of our Savior, you should have
charity, Mr. Brown, and not believe everything
yon read and hear. If you continue your vis-
its here you will surely meet this young man,
for I have given him a cordial welcome to our
house.
	P. B. (in a rage.) I will not be so insult-
ed. I, a minister of the Church of England,
mix with those vile people. Never, never!
(rushes to the door, looks back.) Anathema!
anathema! Exit.
	Tom. Ha-ha, Old boy, you have got your
walking ticket.
	Marian. O dear! I am all of a tremble.
I did not think our good old minister, could
talk like that.
	Tom. So, so, my brave coz., afraid of the
old minister, were you not?
	Mrs. D. Mr. Day, excuse this scene; you
must have been very much amused with our
good minister. I certainly was very much sur-
prised at the part he acted.
	M. E. Yes, madam I was amused, but not
at all surprised. I have met such gentlemen
before.
	Mrs. D. Let us resume our conservation.
	Lucy. If you live in Salt Lake City, Mr.
Day, you are acquainted with Mr. Young,
your leader. Is he anything like our minis-
ter?
	M. E. No, miss, they are as opposite as
light and darkness. I know President Young
well, and some of the Apostles. They are men
of God. I know them to be honest, upright
and virtuous.
	Mrs. D. You are too young to have known
Mr. Smith, your Prophet.
	M. E. Yes, ma'am; but my father knew
him well. I have often heard him speak of
the Prophet Joseph Smith; of his great heart
and noble soul; of his wisdom and intelligence,
and of him being a servant of God, and friend
to all mankind.
	Marian. Do you believe this to be true, Mr.
Day?

[Column 2]
	M. E. I more than believe. I know it to
be true through the many evidences I have
of its truth, and by the revelations of the Ho-
ly Spirit.
	Tom. You are very different from us; we
only believe, hope and pray it is so.
	M. E. That is because you have not been
taught correct principlns by one having au-
thority from God. The Gospel of Jesus Christ
is so plain, that our Lord says, a wayfaring
man, though a fool, may not err.
	Marian. Mr. Day, you do not talk like our
minister. I rather like what you say.
	M. E. I try to deliver the message my
Master gave me in its purity. I am nothing of
myself, and without the Spirit of the Lord I
should be worse than nothing in my present
position. I must now bid you good-day. I
have duties to perform that must not be neg-
lected. Please accept my thanks for the
kind reception you have given me. I shall
deem it a pleasure to call again.
	Mrs. D. My young friend, we shall be most
happy to see you whenever circumstances will
permit you to visit us.
	Tom. Mr. Day, I will accompany you part
of the way.
	M. E. Thanks, Mr. Tom. I should be
pleased with your company, (Both bow to the
ladies and retire.)
				M. ELIZABETH LITTLE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SPENCER HOUSE.
	We are so often spoken to in reference to a
good house to stop at by strangers visiting our
city, as also by our people from the settlements,
that we take pleasure in recommending the
"Spencer House" as thoroughly respectable,
clean and pleasant. The table has long borne
the reputation of not being excelled; the
grounds are the largest of any hotel grounds
in the city, which, with the extensive lawns
and abundant shade trees, make it pre-emin-
ently a most inviting resort for tourists—prices
are reasonable.
	This house is situated on Post Office block,
1st East, between 2nd and 3rd South, Nos.
251 and 252.


[Column 1]
For Sale at this office.

BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.

PRIMARY SPEASKER, Nos. 1 and 2,		-	24c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Htmn Book,		40c.	"
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,		-		$1.00	"
	"	vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, -	1.50	"

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
Office and residence, Main Street, in the new Mor-
ris building, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yams,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE IS GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence.

[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
☞ We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

[Image of store]

HENRY DINWOODEY.

FURNITURE,
WALL PAPER,
CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, L[-]CE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUNS
AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY.

F Auerbach & Bro.
A Fall and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMEN'S EXPONENT.

﻿The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Woman of all Nations.

VOL. 12.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1884.	No. 21.


TO SISTER E. R. SNOW SMITH

ON HER EIGHTIETH BIRTHDAY.

M. A. GREENBALGH.

My heart has urged, my pen must needs obey
And write a welcome for thy natal day;
Many, many happy returns may'st thou know,
And heaven its blessings profusely bestow;
On earth may happiness round thee cling,
And peace her mantle o'er thee fling;'
May heaven thy footsteps still attend,
And wealth a bounteous tribute send
To light thy steps through earth’s deep gloom,
And smooth thy pathway towards the tomb;
And when life's pilgrimage is won.
And all terrestial strife is done,
May a welcome await thee where care is unknown,
And a place be assigned thee beside that bright throne
Where God in His glory, mid myriads of blest,
Has prepared for the weary a haven of rest;
Or to some glorious orb of light
May thy freed spirit take its flight;
And there undying through eternal years
Find endless pleasure in celestial spheres.
	Meadow, Jan. 21st, 1881.


[Column 1]

EASTER SUNDAY.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	There are days and seasons in every life that
draw the soul nearer to God, that throw a-
round it a sweet influence of peace and satis-
faction, something that seems to draw all things
around to a focus, that seem to hold up, as it
were, a mirror to the mind, in which sweet and
glorious visions are presented to the imagina-
tion, and 'tis felt to be indeed a Sabbath—a
time of rest, of retrospection, of meditation, of
entering into a close communion with spiritual
things,and approximating nearer and nearer to
our Father, God. Such a day and season is
most especially Easter Sunday. It occurs in
the lovely season of spring—when earth
has again her annual resurrection, when
the early flowers—the snowdrop and the cro-
cus, raise their pure and beautiful heads above
the dark brown earth, and have a voice that
speaks to our spirit of life renewed. The air
is soft and balmy, the beams of the glorious sun
seem to embrace us with the very warmth of
love, invigorating our frame and rejoicing our
hearts, making our brain bright and vivid, as
though bathed in a chalice of ambrosia; our
step is light and elastic, we feel that earth can
scarcely hold us, our spirit seems to desire to
soar into a still higher region—a more natural
element, the very breath of heaven seems to
fan our cheek, and we feel as though ready for
the “transfiguration!" We walk in the gar-
den alone; yes, we want to be alone so far as
earthly things are concerned; we have thrown
off the "mortal coil" of every day life, we have
entered the sanctuary of our own heart, and
the temple of our brain, and we desire to walk
through the length and the breadth of the same,
feeling we are not alone, but that another is
with us "like unto the Son of God"—could
natural eyes behold Him!
	We are away in the fields of thought, of
meditation; we desire to realize the peculiar
feelings experienced on this glorious Sabbath
morning! What circumstance gives to this
day feelings of a peculiar kind, such as we re-
alize on no other? Every Sabbath brings sweet

[Column 2]

and peaceful feelings, but none that has the
beauty and the solemn peace, aud the entire
satisfaction of this Easter Sunday! Why is it
so? What is the cause? It is the day on which
the Savior arose bodily from the repose of the
sepulchre. "On the third day He rose again"
and walked in the beantiful garden and met
Mary, who was mourning and searching for
the Lord. She, thinking He was the gardener,
said inploringly, "Sir, if thou hast borne Him
hence, tell me where thou hast laid Him, and I
will take Him away." Jesus said unto her,
"Mary?" She turned and saith unto Him,
"Rabboni!" Let us try to realize for a mo--
ment this sublime, this thrilling scene. My
soul seems to expand to leap at the bare recit-
al of it. He had veiled Himself from her nat-
ural eyes, but that marvelous voice pronounc-
ing only her name, laid bare the wondrous vol-
ume, and she knew Him. She rushed forward
to kneel and clasp His knees, but again the
voice says, "Touch me not, for I have not yet
ascended to my Father." Let us ponder on
this wondrous scene; how glorious, how consol-
ing, how exalting those few but mighty words,
what do they not import? They have a mean-
ing which our obscure and limited understand-
ing cannot fully comprehend, and yet enough
is conveyed to the spirit ear of the devout
Christian that is better than our present insuf-
ficient language could possibly portray.
	Easter is the first great festival of the year,
as Christmas is the last, the one commemor-
ates the birth, the other the death and resur-
rection of the Divine Savior of the world.
What a field for reflection is involved in these
two grand epochs! When we realize the mar-
velous love of God to man, and how it was dis-
played for the redemption of the human fami-
ly, how deep should be our gratitude, how a-
bundant our praise, how entire our adoration!
	It is remarkable that in the English version
of the Bible, the word Easter occurs for the
passover. It will be found in the twelfth chap.
of the Acts of the Apostles, fourth verse. In
I Corinthians, fifth chapter and seventh verse.
Paul says, "Christ our passover is sacrificed for
us." Jesus was typified by the Paschal lamb,
and the early Christians joined in the celebra-
tion of the great Jewish festival, which wa
held on the first new moon of the spring.
	Eester is the most joyful festival of the Greek
and Roman churches; it is also observed with
great solemnity by the Church of England,
the Lutheran, and the European Calvinists—
under the new style. The earliest possible day
whereon Easter can happen is the 22nd of
March, on which day it fell in the year 1818,
and cannot do so again till the year 2285. The
latest possible day whereon it can fall is the
25th of April.
	Regarding Easter offerings,these are thought
by some to be derived from the gifts of the
wise men of the East, who came to worship the
infant Savior at Bethlehem, but others declare
this custom had even an older origin it being
the practice of the Jews to make offerings of
the firstlings of their flocks, and first fruits in
the temple at the passover.
	Another Easter custom, which is still kept
up in some parts, is that of presenting children
with eggs stained with various colors in boil-
ing, termed paste, or more properly, Pasche
eggs, doubtless from the word paschal. This
custom appears to have been derived from the
Roman Catholic superstition that eggs were an
emblem of the resurrection.

[Column 3]

	Easter-tide, as the week succeeding Easter
Sunday was called in former times,was distingu-
ished as a season of great rejoicing. It was the be-
lief of the vulgar, says Dr. Blake in his "Life
and Times of Shakespeare," that the sun him-
self partook of the exhilaration and danced
on Sunday, metaphorically considered; indeed,
the idea may be termed both just and beauti-
ful, as the earth and her valleys standing thick
with grain, are said to laugh and sing. So, on
account of the resurrection, the heavens and
the sun may be said to dance for joy, or, as the
Psalmist words it, "the heaven may rejoice and
the earth be glad."
	Three days only contain the winding up-
scene of the Savior's mission on the earth. The
Church of England names the first "Good Fri-
day"—on which the crucifixion took place. A
rich man—Joseph of Arimathea—went to Pi-
late and begged the body of Jesus, and he took
it down and wrapped it in fine linen, and laid
it in a sepulchre wherein never man was laid.
Convoys of angels were the holy sentinels
watching the sacred repose of that body that
was not "to see corruption." The God spirit
had passed into Hades, the region of the con-
demned, and there "preached to the spirits in
prison," opening the prison doors and bidding
the captives go free. Early on the morning of
the third day, being Sunday, he resumed that
reposing body and walked forth in the garden
of Mausoleum, where Mary is seeking her
Lord; there He meets her and gives her the
first gospel mission to a woman—"Go to my
brethren and say unto them, I ascend to my
Father and to your Father, to my God and to
your God." Mary, Mary! blesed art thou
among woman!


OUR TRAVELS BEYOND THE 
MISSISSIPPI.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(To be Continued.)
	Sunday, the 31st. A general conference had
been appointed, but as the meeting was about
to commence a heavy storm arose which
caused the people to disperse. They met again
in the afternoon, but the rain prevented them
from effecting much, and it continued through
the day and night.
	This day, Horace wrote, "Bro. Noah Rogers
expired to-day after an illness of ten days. He,
Bro. Grouard, Bro. Addison Pratt and Bro.
Hanks, were the first to introduce the Gospel
to the inhabitants of Toobouia and Tahiti Is-
lands, belonging to the Society Group in the
Pacific Ocean. Bro. Rogers was gone about
three years, during which time he, with his
brethren, accomplished a great work and were
the means of bringing many to a knowledge of
the truth. He has left a large family to mourn
his loss, but one great consolation to them will
be the fact that he died in full faith of the
Gospel, and with the hope of a glorious resur-
rection, having the conscious satisfaction that
many a dark and benighted heathen had,
through his instrumentality, been led into the
"straight and narrow path that leads to eternal
life."
	Monday, the 1st of June. It continued rain-
ing till about noon, when it cleared off. This
is my mother's and President Young's birth-
day. Horace wrote that he had watched part
of the night with Jacob Frazier, who was get-
ting better; was very cold weather iudeed for


[Column 1]
the time of year. He says, "Horace Rockwell
arrived here to-day from Nauvoo, bringing the
mail; he left the city last Wednesday—brought
me a paper, (Hancock Eayle), from Waterman
Phelps, by reading which I found that Porter
had taken a change of venue to Joe, Davies
County, and is to be tried at Galena on Mon-
day, the 8th inst. The rumors we have heard
of his being shot in his unsuccessful attempt to
escape from Quincy Jail are entirely ground-
less—on the contrary, he has made no attempt
to escape, and has declared that were ever so
good an opportunity to present itself he would
not avail himself of a chance to escape, but
would await his trial. Rockwell says there did-
not seem to be much hostility manifested to-
wards him, Porter, where he had been, but
rather a feeling of curiosity to behold such a
noted individual, and that he had a great num-
ber of visitors, who daily flocked to see him.
He is treated kindly, uniformly, both by the
officers of the law and the people."
	"Tuesday, the 2nd.	*	*	Struck our
tents—sun about an hour high—crossed the
river, went two miles and encamped on the
prairie. Brigham is three miles ahead, he hav-
ing started yesterday.	*	*	*	The
roads somewhat muddy, but improving."
	It rained a little during that night—-just as
we were about starting next morning a young
Indian, belonging to the Pottawatomie tribe,
rode up on a pony—he had a young spotted
fawn in his arms, which father bought of him,
giving him a dollar in silver, but it died in a
couple of days after. We overtook President
Young before his tents were struck, stopped
there about three hours, where Bishop Whit-
ney overtook us, having come that morning
from Mt. Pisgah. "The whole camp proceed-
ed six miles," wrote Horace, "and encamped
on the prairie near some timber, making in all
nine miles to-day. This morning, before start-
ing, wrote two letters for Bro. Kimball, one to
the Trustees in Trust, the other to Sister Mary
Smith, Hyrum's widow; he intends sending
them by Bro. Markham. Bro. Kimball gave
him an order on the Trustees for four yoke of
oxen, he having given up his team to him."
	The next day was cold and cloudy, accom-
panied by quite a sharp wind. We started
quite early that morning, leaving Bishop Whit-
ney behind—he had lost his cattle during that
night. We went about eight miles and baited
al out noon, where we saw some fine looking
Indians on horseback. We went ten miles fur-
ther and encamped on the prairie near the tim-
ber and a stream of water. Our road that day
was altogether ou the prairie, which we were
told was eighteen miles long, being the dis-
tance we had accomplished that day; the long-
est day's journey since we left Nauvoo. We
had just encamped when Bro. A Fielding over-
took us and remained with us all night. He
was to start next day for Nauvoo. A day or
two previous to this my husband's sister, Sarah
Ann, commenced tenting with us and we con-
tinued together till houses were built at Winter
Quarters.
	"Friday, the 5th" Horace wrote, "somewhat
obscured by clouds this morning, and a little
rain, but it soon cleared off cloudless and beau-
tiful. Wrote a letter this morning for Bro.
Kimball to Bro's Huntington, Benson and
Rich, at Mt. Pisgah, requesting four yoke of
cattle. Started about eight, and about ten
o'clock struck the Indian trail leading from
Racoon Fork to Council Bluffs, passed through
some very romantic spots and quite a diversity
of scenery to what we have hitherto seen on
our passing, route o'er hill and through brake
and bush." We saw the remains of a good
many Indian wigwams, which had the appear-
ance of being constructed some time since.
They were composed of boughs of trees curi-
ously interwoven. Just before reaching our
place of encampment for the night we saw a

[Column 2]
large number of them which had fallen down
and were dried, and as we intended going on a
little further before stopping, and there being
nothing but prairie before us as far as the eye
could extend, everyone gathered a bundle for
firewood. Wm. found a small breastplate that
had evidently been lost by an Indian. We
traveled about fourteen miles to-day—father.
has not yet come up with us. We encamped
on a small creek, and Brigham also within a
short distance from us.
	Saturday, the 6th. Rained a little during
the day, traveled about fourteen miles and en-
camped on the bottom in the vicinity of quite
a large creek. The wagons were all arranged
successively in a circle of about a quarter of a
mile in circumference, thus making; an inclos-
ure for our horses; just as we were encamping
father, with his teams, came up.	*	*
Would have overtaken us before had they
not stopped to repair a wagon.
	Next day being Sabbath a meeting was cal-
led at ten o'clock. Brother Brigham and fa-
ther spoke at some length, exhorting the peo-
ple to the observance of the ordinances and
commandments of God. A number of Indians
and squaws, Pottawatomies, who were camped
some four or five miles from us, came to see us
mounted on their ponies and horses, and decor-
ated and painted in their gay and peculiar
style. We started in the afternoon and went
about seven miles, and encamped just about
sunset on a small creek near the timber, Presi-
dent Young arranging his wagons on one side
of the road, and father his on the other. This
was a beautiful day for traveling, the roads be-
ing very good. Here one of Brother Dike's
oxen had its neck broken—being turned loose
in the yoke. Bishop Miller built a bridge here
and we saw on a tree, before crossing, an in-
scription done with a knife, "Lost Fork
Bridge."
	On the 8th, Horace says, "Started about eight
this morning, traveled about four miles and
came to a river.	*	*	which we cros-
sed on a bridge and passed through the viliage
where the Chief of the Pottawatomies resided.
Immediately after crossed the same stream
again, which bears the name of Manottawa, or
the "Sleeping Rock." probably originating
from some wild legend or tradition of the In-
dians. Here we stopped about an hour and
baited our cattle; during which time we were
visited by a great number of the tribe, both In-
dians and squaws. The chief went to Brigham
and wanted him to pay them for the grass
which the cattle eat; this request they were
probably "put up to" by some of the whites,
enemies to our people. While we stopped here
we had the amusement of seeing two or three
horse races. They have very fine horses and
ponies among them, as we found out to our sat-
isfaction by running with them—traveled four-
teen miles and encamped on another small
creek near the timber. Father and Brigham
had already arrived here, and encamped. At
this place, just before descending the hill to the
river, we saw an Indian burial ground, which
we distinguished by a white flag that we saw
fastened to a tree. The Indians appeared to
be in quite a destitute condition, offering us va-
rious ornaments, such as beads, wampum and
other trinkets in exchange for food. Father
called his portion of the camp together and ad-
monished them to get their firelocks ready in
case of emergency. The names of the ones
who never had been organized were called over;
these were fourteen, it seems, of whom Brother
Alva Tibbitts was appointed captain. Hor-
ace continues:
	"Thursday, the 9th. Beautiful day! started
about eight this morning.	*	*	To-
wards evening arrived at a spot something like
an inclined plain, situated on a small creek and
environed by trees on each side. On account
of the uncommon beauty of the place Brother

[Column 3]
Kimball named it "Paradise." We then cros-
sed the creek, ascended the hill and proceeded
about a mile and encamped on another creek in
the vicinity of timber; here found a beautiful
spring of water, which rivaled in sweetness any
I ever saw."
	Here, wa found Bro. Lorenzo Young, who, as
a rule, camped a little distance from the rest
to favor Sister Harriet Young, who was a con-
stant sufferer from asthma, and desired to be
quiet, which was out of the question in a large
camp, and as young as I was she had my sym-
pathies. We learned from Uncle Lorenzo that
President Young had encamped three miles a-
head, where Bishop Miller and company were
engaged in bnilding a bridge, so we stopped
here, having traveled about thirteen miles.
	Next morning a number of our camp went
to assist in building the bridge. Father and
Bishop Whitney drove over to see the President,
and in the afternoon be came back in his car-
riage with Sister Mary Ann Young. He, with
father and Bishop Whitney, mounted their
horses, while sister Young, my mother and
Mother Whitney got into the carriage and went
after strawberries. They returned towards
evening bringing three or four quarts.
	Horace wrote: "To night we boys returned,
having finished the bridge. Had quite a pleas-
ant time this evening, which we spent in danc-
ing on the green grass till bed time; the bright
orb of night shining in all its glory over our
heads."


162	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE MORMON BATTALION.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Having made several successful trips in the
different parts of the territory in the interest
of the Mormon Battalion, allow us through
the columns of your valuable paper to express
our sincere thanks to all who have in any way
aided us in our arduous labors. May heaven's
choicest blessings rest upon our dear Editor in
all of her labors, is the prayer of your humble
Sister in the Gospel,
					RUTH W. TYLER.

	N. B. Should read, "History of the Mormon
Battalion." It is a work that shonld be in all
the libraries of the youth of Zion. There are
many usefnl lessons to be learned from such
history, the record of brave men, who endured
toil, privation and hardship as well as separa-
tion from their families for principle's sake, for
the love of country and true loyalty to a gov-
ernment who had allowed them to be driven by
mobs from the borders of civilization.
	S. L. City, March 12th., 1884.


The Woman Suffragists of Nebraska held
their annual convention at York, on January
17 and 18.

	Gen. Washington said, "If a national gov-
ernment may choose to treat arbitrarily any
portion of its people, considering not their
merits and deeds, and ignores their inherent
rights, it infringes its own right to tranquility,
peace and prosperity, to that extent that dis-
satisfaction and disintegration within its own
dominion are engendered; and the consequent
issue is disruption and open rebellion."

	This is a world or sweet surprises. It is a
world of joy. There are sweet spirits that ex-
hale the perfume or happiness, as flowers send
out their fragrance. They do not need to be
seen to tell the story of their presence and
their mission. They have other and better a-
venues of disclosure. The invisible is the real
—whether in this, or any other world. It is
the soul that loves and is loved—that recog-
nizes and is recognized—that greets and is
greeted.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 163


"HOME, SWEET HOME."

Straight is the gate and narrow the way,
And weary the journeying day by day;
Tempations and trials on every hand,
But soon we shall reach the promised land;
And angels in heaven will sing as we come,
"Well done, faithful servants, come home, come home."

The weary journey we will not regret,
Temptations and trials we'll soon forget,
And strike on our harps a louder strain,
As we join in gladness our sweet refrain;
The angels in heaven sing as we come,
"Well done, faithful servants, come home, come home."

Ah, when we have reached the promised land,
And taken our place mid th' angelic band,
How gladly we’ll welcome each day some friend,
And holy and sweet our voices will blend
In the song the angels sing as they come,
"Well done, faithful servants, come home, come home."

The angels that watched round the tomb we'll see,
The "chosen twelve" and the "Mother Mary;"
Elias and Moses will be in the throng.
To share in the bliss and join in the song
The angel band as a welcome sings,
"Well done, faithful servants, come home, come home."

Jesus our Savior, and God on the throne,
Will be there to greet each purified one;
The portals of heaven will echo and ring
With praises to God, our priest and our king,
Who bids His angels the welcome sing,
"Well done, faithful servants, come home, come home."
										E. S. D.


[Column 1]
A WOMAN'S THOUGHTS.

DEAR EDITOR:
	I feel inspired to communicate, through your
valuable paper, the EXPONENT, a few of my
thoughts, although I cannot convey in writing
my true feelings. In reading the anniversary
of Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith's 80th birthday,
suffice it to say, that I heartily endorse all that
my sisters have said through Sister Pratt, and
although debarred of her personal counsel and
society, I fully appreciate her sterling worth as
an organizer and leading spirit in this last dis-
pensation. The dauntless heroism she has dis-
played proves that woman is capable of rul-
ing. She has shown her adaptability as a lead-
er in the woman's organizations of this Church,
over which she presides. It is a standing mon-
umen[-] to her genius worthy of being handed
down to the latest generation. We pray for the
choicest blessings of heaven to attend her in
her declining years, that her life may be pro-
longed on the earth until she is satisfied with
life. What joy and satisfaction I have taken
in reading her soul-inspiring poetry when
weighed down with care and bereavement, and
passing through the dark valley of trouble it
has raised me to faith, hope and life. I feel
that the greatest tribute we can pay her is to
follow her wise counsel and emulate her exam-
ple, teach our children the principles of truth
that she has spent her life in promulgating.
	In reading yonr editorial on Woman's Suf-
frage, I feel to acknowledge the power of our
Heavenly Father in working upon the hearts
of our sisters in the east in causing them to
take the interest they do in the momentous
question of woman's rights, as it is a question
involving a great deal to us, and one upon
which depends, in a great measure, the future
prosperity of this nation; the nation has be-
come so corrupt in the hands of men that it
will take the modifying influence of woman to
help them out of the mire.
	We believe that man is not complete with-
out the woman, and that they should work
conjointly that the best good may accrue, it is
folly to fight against equal rights; it is an un-
deniable fact that women are conscientious in
their views of right and wrong; that they are
more inclined to religion than men, that they

[Column 2]
have a finer spiritual nature, and I think that
men of thought and understanding cannot help
but see that it will be to their interest to have
woman take her proper place and work as hav-
ing the same object in view, the elevation of
the human family.
	I have been re-reading Judge Black's argu-
ment on the right of Iocal self-government; (it
should be written in letters of gold and treas-
ured in the home of every lover of the princi-
ples of freedom and equal rights) he says: "A
violation of constitutional law is not an offense
which is ever made venial by the occasion, you
cannot do evil that good may come, the evil is
there, but the good never comes." Just the
stand we take. You cannot go around the
constitutional law, giving us local self-govern-
ment, and thrust upon us our avowed enemies
to rule over us. That theory carried out would
make us a community of slaves, subject to the
will of Congress; and we, having no represent-
ative in that body, would be subjected to any
legislation they might see fit to [-]ake, howev-
er detrimental to the people's interest, We
have a local government here made by men of
the people's choice, and we claim the right to
sustain that government according to the right
given us by the Constitution; and we, the wo-
men of Utah, being made equal with men,
think it possible, by application and study, to
ultimately attain to the qualifications necessary
to the filling of any position woman may be
fitted for or called upon to fill. Then why
should men seek to deprive us of our rights?
Would it not be more god-like to help in the
advancement of women in their political aspir-
ations? As much so as in their charitable en-
deavors to elevate the human family. Why
uot give their faculties full scope when they
seek to do good? Do they think that what
woman does will dim the lustre of their glory?
Will it not rather add to it? Do not women
feel the same aspirations to be great and noble
as men? Do they not feel the same patriotic
fire, the same love of liberty? Yes. And we
do not feel too refined to meddle with politics;
we feel a lively interest in it, and the more we
study and comprehend the more we want to
know. Some say that it unfits a woman for
her household duties to take an active part in
law and politics; but it is not so; it makes her
feel the importance and necessity of greater
care being thrown around her family, and pro-
tecting them from the corruptions of the world,
for she cannot study and obtain a close insight
into the doings of men, holding the destiny of
nations in their hands, without seeing the cor-
ruption that is sapping away the foundations of
honor, truth and chastity from the nations of
the earth, and it makes her heart bleed for the
future generations; unless God shall help,
strengthen and support the government there
would be no hope. There certainly is a great
necessity for some powerful agency to promote
the good of the human family.
	We, as mothers in Israel, feel to humble our-
selves before God and crave His help to sus-
tain us in our endeavors to live uprightly and
honest and meekly with ourselves, and true to
God and our religion. Always keep the exam-
ple of Jesus, our Elder Brother before our
eyes continually, that we may not imbibe the
spirit of the world and become bitter towards
those that persecute us for our religion, but let
us say, "Father, forgive them, for they know
not what they do." But while we forgive we do
not want to lose sight of our honor, our rights
and our dignity.
	The Almighty will deal out judgment and
justice to the wicked. The Lord says through
the mouth of His prophet, "The anger of the
Lord is kindled against the wicked and His
sword is bathed in heaven, and it shall fall
upon the inhabitants of the earth; and the arm
of the Lord shall be revealed; and the day com-
eth that they who will not hear the voice of the

[Column 3]
Lord, neither that of His servants; neither gives
heed to the words of the Prophets and Apos-
tles, shall be cut off from among the people."
He also says: "Behold I, the Lord, utter my
voice, and it shall be obeyed; verily, I say, let
the wicked take heed, and let the rebellious
fear and tremble; and let the unbelieving hold
their lips, for the day of wrath shall come up-
on them as a whirlwind, and all flesh shall
know that I am God."
	We feel to warn and exhort all to let truth
and reason guide them, and let judgment rest
with God.
	We are living in a momentous age, and it is
all important that we make our religion our
first object; that we seek the interest of the
Kingdom of God; the time is coming, and is
close at hand, that will try us to the core, and
unless we have on the whole armor we may
find that we lack the strength that is requisite
to enable us to stand firm and weather the
storm. We feel the need of strengtn out here in
this region, shut in, as it were, by mountains
on every side, and deprived of the counsel and
help of our sisters that stand at the head of
our organizations, and we will rejoice when
travelling facilities are such that we can have
our sisters visit us occasionally. We are pro-
gressing as well as can be expected with our
limited facilities, under the wise supervision of
our respected president, Sister Larsen; we held
our conference on the 2nd of last month, and
had a splendid time, the Spirit of the Lord
was richly poured out upon the sisters, and we
felt to rejoice in the Lord.
	Praying for the triumph of truth over error,
				Your sister,
					SARAH A. FULLMER.

Orangeville, Emery County.


SHORT AND SWEET.

	Taking Friday evening's train, Sister Louie
Felt, Mary J. Cluff and myself sped on to San-
taquin, where we were met by Grandma Stick-
ney and Sister Wall, the Primary president.
Arriving at the meeting house, our ears were
saluted with sweet sounds from within. On en-
tering we found the hall filled, children in
front, parents occupying the seats that were
remaining. Such order! such an outpouring
of the divine influence that every heart was
filled with joy.
	Bishop Halliday moved that Sister Felt, be-
ing a missionary's wife, have her fare paid; the
hands flew up and the money came down; a
vote was called for those who did not keep the
word of wisdom to rise; not one of the officers
or members moved; and then for those who
were observing this commandment to rise, we
all rose; this gave us great joy.
	Saturday. Held meeting in Payson at 10
a.m. had a full house, good spirit and warm
friends, which made the time go like magic.
	At 3 p.m. held meeting in Salem; "all went
merry as a marriage bell;" children clean,
sweet and orderly.
	Returned to Payson, where we were the re-
cipients of Brother and Sister Douglas' hos-
pitality; enjoyed a delightful evening, and re-
turned by the morning train healthier, happi-
er and wiser for trying to do our duty to the
children of the Saints.
					ZINA Y. WILLIAMS.


George Sand is to have a statue erected at
La Cha[-]re, on July 15. It is the work of M.
Millet, and will be exhibited at the salon.

	Miss Anna E. Dickinson has been very
at the Palmer House, Chicago. Her many
warm friends everywhere will be glad to know
she is recovering.


164	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	APRIL 1, 1884.


[Column 1]
MRS. LOCKWOOD'S SPEECHES.

	Mrs. Belva A. Lockwood has been up in the
State of New York recently, and was there in-
terviewed on the Mormon question by newspa-
per reporters. Mrs. Lockwood said:
	"I spoke upon the Mormon question at last
year's convention and also went before the Com-
mittee on Territories. For that the Mormon
people passed me a resolution of thanks and al-
so took up a collection and sent me $100; but I
cannot say that I am retained in their behalf
thereby. I was Vice-President for the District
of Columbia of the Woman's National Suffrage
Association, and was this year asked to make a
speech of thirty minutes before the convention
on any subject that I should choose. I selected
woman and her relation to trades and profes-
sions, and prepared myself to speak on it, with
the knowledge of Miss Anthony and Mrs. Se-
well, Chairmen of the Executive Committee.
The day before the Convention met, Miss An-
thony saw me and said that my subject en-
trenched upon the subjects of some of the other
ladies, and that as I could more readily change
than any of them, she desired me to take up the
subject of disfranchisement of the women of
Utah and Wyoming, remarking, "If you do not
treat that subject, no one else will, as they have
neither the knowledge nor the courage.' In my
speech I made a legal argument against the pas-
sage of the Hoar amendment to the Edmunds'
bill, and the Cassidy bill. I showed that the
Hoar amendment, which contains a clause to
disfranchise the women of Utah, is unconstitu-
tional and inquisitorial; and that the Cassidy
bill to wipe out the Legislature of the Territory,
is an unwarranted usurpation of power by the
general government. The portion of my speech
which specially caused the commotion was when
I compared the religions of the world, showing
how they had their origin. Joseph Smith had
but six followers.	*	*	*	*
	In six years the Mormons increased
to 15,000, and to-day they number over 100,000.
The Methodist Church of America started with
a membership of six persons, in St John Street,
New York. Now its membership is 4,000,000.
I showed the origin of Mohammsdanism, pre-
cisely as that of the Mormon religion, and quo-
ted that Mohammed said, 'If you do not be-
lieve that this book is from God, see if you can
write a better one.' The Mohammedans now
number 180,000,000. All these religions were
persecuted, in the beginning, and my object
was to show that to persecute a church was only
to increase its membership. On this line of
thought I said it was religious persecution that
settled the shores of the rock bound New Eng-
land and drove the Baptists out of Connecticut.
The Government, I claimed, had no more right

[Column 2]
to attack and despoil the Mormon Church than
the Catholic or any other church. That policy
in Utah where every man supports his wives
and children is not so much worse than the pol-
icy in the District of Columbia where men re-
tain their numerous wives, but refuse to recog-
nize them or support them or their children. I
don't believe in the Mormon religion any more
than in the Mohammedan. I was educated a
Methodist and have largely attended the Bap-
tist Church. I don't know that I would swear
by any of them. I am willing to accord to
every person perfect freedom in political and re-
ligious matters."
	Mrs. Lockwood, speaking of her alleged re-
tainer by the Mormons, said: "I am the attorney
and my credentials are filed, for the State of
Panama. I was appointed by the Commission-
er to look after the interests of that State.
Whenever the liberties of the Mormon women
of Utah are threatened, they telegraph or write
to me, but it is not because I am a Mormon, but
because I am a woman suffragist and a humani-
tarian.
	"In regard to my speech at the convention, I
may add that Miss Anthony arose and said to
the audience that the Woman's Suffrage Na-
tional Association had nothing to do with any
legislation in Congress that treated men and wo-
men alike, upon which I begged pardon of the
andience for not having discernment enough to
distinguish the difference between the rights of
men and the rights of women." Mrs. Lockwood
prefers her position upon the question to that of
Miss Anthony."
	Joaquin Miller, when before the Committee
on Territories at the National Capitol, where he
had been summoned to speak on the subject of
Mormonism, met with a lady lawyer, who had
come purposely to speak on the same subject,
Mrs. Lockwood, and he gives his idea of the wo-
man and her speech, and as he is a very pleas-
ant writer, although he does not know all about
Mormonism, we will give his description in his
own words, as his style is very humorous, and
certainly original.
	"She came with a whirr, a snap, conscious-
ness and self-assertion that at once was a sort of
challenge to battle. O, woman, woman! Don't
you know that the day you succeed in making a
soldier of yourself, you will have to fight for
every inch of ground you get instead of having
the whole earth given you, as it is now.
	"She ran around among the chairs and tables
and men, like a little speckled hen that had lost
her last chicken.
	"Then she fluttered down beside the clerk,
slammed down some books and saying, "I am
here to make a speech this morning," proceed-
ed to unroll papers and write furiously.
	"The Committee was not yet in session, and
I in conversation with a Member incidentally re-
marked that we had in early days coined gold in
Oregon. She shot up, and not even deigning to
look at me, she shouted: "And that in the face
of the Constitution, which says, No state shall
coin money issue bills of credit." Then the
head dropped, the deft hand flew, and the pen
rattled over the paper.
	"The Chairman called to order, the lady law-
yer was at once on her feet; and shouted out her
purpose to be heard on the momentous Mormon
question: on motion of someone, fifteen minutes
was allotted for her speech. Catching up her
books, bag, and manuscript, hastening to the
far end of the room, she took position just under
the fox and rattlesnake, and laying down the
papers she crossed her pretty hands and looked
at us tranquilly, triumphantly, a long time un-
der her geld rimmed glasses. This woman fam-
ous in the annals of this city, standing there
with folded hands, under the ferocious fox of
Oregon, had it all her own way at once. She

[Column 3]
was pretty to begin with. No bangs; no frizzels;
no foolishness at all in dress or address. Her
heavy, grey hair was combed back in the old
chaste style, and showed a splendid brow and
fine, earnest face. All leaned forward and lis-
tened eagarly as she began, and as she went on
for the first few minutes. Her English, her ar-
ticulation, her elocution, all seemed perfect. I
doubt if any man in Congress could use better
language, or use it with more grace and precis-
ion. For the first fifteen minutes no man
moved or spoke, but at twenty minutes she be-
gan to fail, to flounder about, to blunder. She
had forgotten her piece. And then, poor dear,
she had undertaken to settle the whole stu-
pendous Mormon question, the morality and
immorality of it; to expound the Constitution,
compare Congress to King George, all in fifteen
minutes! No wonder she got beyond her depth.
Men got impatient; they began to talk; some
giggled as she soared and soared to her final ap-
peal and got so high that she melted the wax of
her wings and fell to the ground there under the
gentle rattlesnake and the ferocious fox of the
far off Oregon. Evidently the old member, who
had muttered something not complimentary as
she first entered, was like myself, thinking of
old Rome. For as she gathered up her papers
after forty minutes of able defence of the Mor-
mons; and fluttered to her seat, he settled back
and said to himself, "Great Caesar!"
	"As a faithful chronicler of unique things
here at our country's Capital, I am free to admit
that there are many men, myself among the
number, who could not have made, to save their
lives, such a speech! The only real trouble a-
bout it all was in not knowing when to stop. At
the end of twenty-five minutes the Chairman
had to call her to order She, womanlike, want-
ed to have the last word. She was allowed five
minutes more, and took fifteen to end."


TESTIMONY THAT CANNOT BE
REFUTED.

	A lecture was delivered by F. C. Brand, in
the Saints Chapel, Sunday evening, Feb. 3rd,
1884, on "celestial marriage frauds," as he
terms it. I will say nothing about the first
part of his lecture, nor the flimsy arguments he
makes use of to sustain himself in his position
as opponent to celestial marriage. His fourth
question is, What shall we do with these wo-
men that have made affidavit that they were
Joseph Smith's wives? Why, we shall cross ex-
amine them. He read to the audience my affi-
davit, and says, "J. Adams denied performing
the ceremony, in 1873, while in London, and in
presence of Emma Smith, who also denies any
knowledge of such a marriage, on her death
bed." Further on he says, "One of the elite la-
dies of Ogden told me that she could swear that
Hyrum Smith married or sealed four women to
his brother Joseph, giving their names, etc."
	Now, I have often wondered, if they really
wanted to learn the truth, why they did not
come and put their questions to me, instead of
going to an "elite lady of Ogden," who made
no pretence of knowing only by hearsay, and if
she did vary a little from the truth, it is not so
very strange, neither is it any proof that plural
marriage is not of God, or that my affidavit is
not true. I have made a statement of facts that
I know; not of what I have heard or believe,
but what is actual knowledge. I am not afraid
of being cross questioned, but even if it were
possible to make me contradict myself, it would
not alter the facts. "Facts are stubborn things,"
and refuse to be obliterated. Facts cannot be
destroyed, no matter how strong the proof or ar-
guments may be, seemingly, that are brought
to bear against them. Truth will stand bold and


[Column 1]
defiant through everything. Truth is the rock
on which I stand, and I know whereof I speak,
and that is why I have no fears. I am willing
to answer any reasonable question that anybody
may desire to ask. The time has been when
my conscience forebade me to speak of these
things, and no cross questions would have made
me reveal the facts. The time had not come to
publish to the world this "holy order of matri-
mony." It would have brought great trouble
upon the Prophet and the people; but now I feel
it my duty to bear my testimony to the truth of
Joseph Smith teaching and practicing plural
marriage some years before his death. And the
revelation given through him was no less true
because it was not written as soon as revealed.
Emma was a witness to Joseph taking plural
wives, on one occasion at least, and if she has
denied it on her death bed (which is very hard
to believe) even forty times over, it does not des-
troy the facts; and as to J. Adams denying that
he performed the marriage ceremony, I think it
is a mistake. It might have been George J.
Adams that denied it, but the one I mentioned
in my affidavit was James Adams, generally
known as Judge Adams, of Springfield, Ill. He
did not reside in Nauvoo, but was there on a
visit. I do not think he would deny it, unless
he had apostatised, and I know an apostate will
say and do almost anything to injure the truth.
But if he and Emma, and every other witness
should deny it, the fact still remains. Emma
seemed to feel well until the ceremony was over,
when, almost before she could draw a second
breath, she turned, and was more bitter in her
feelings than ever before, if possible. She had,
as it were, bound us to the ship and carried us
to mid ocean, then threw us over board to sink
or swim, as the case might be.
	She often made things very unpleasant, but I
have nothing in my heart towards her but pity.
I know it was hard for Emma, and any women
to enter plural marriage in those days, and I do
not know as anybody would have done any better
than Emma did under the circumstances. I think
Emma always regretted having any hand in
getting us into such trying circumstances. But
she need not have blamed herself for that, in
the least, for it would have been the same with
or without her consent, and I have never repen-
ted the act that made me a plural wife. It has
been to me like an anchor cast within the veil.
It gave me a hope that was like a rod of iron to
cling to while wading through heavy mists of
hatred and persecution. And I could say truly:

"I've a hope that will not fall,
It reaches far within the veil,
Which hope is like an anchor,
Oh, that's the hope for me!"

	Yes, that is the hope for me. It will never
perish, and when thorns have been strewn in
my pathway beneath my feet, and dark clouds
have gathered over my head, this hope has
cheered me on my way. I have often locked
back with joy and thanksgiving that I listened
to the "still, small voice that whispered to my
soul." The door is open—enter! It may look
dark, dreary and desolate, but peace, joy and
exaltation lie beyond. The longer I live, and
the more knowledge and understanding I get
pertaining to the principles of the eternal
worlds, the more I rejoice in the one act of my
life that made me the wife of Joseph Smith,
and bound me to him for time and all eternity.
I feel perfectly secure under his guardianship. I
know he was a prophet of God, and I know that
he received the revelation on celestial marriage
years before it was written, and it was through
him that the revelation was given making
known the baptising for the dead, and through
him many other points of doctrine were reveal-

[Column 2]
ed. He organized the Relief Societies, also the
Young Men's and Young Ladies' Societies, and
these revelations of Joseph Smith's are the rock
on which this Church is built, and it cannot be
shaken. It is as firm and immovable as the
mighty rocks that form the mountains with
which we are surrounded. The principles of
the Gospel are perfect and cannot be confounded.
Mankind is weak and imperfect, they may be
shaken, and perchance some may fall, but God's
work will never fail.
	Then let those who love a lie better than the
truth have the desires of their hearts. Let
them cherish falsehood and hide themselves in
its subtle threads. Let them build for them-
selves a foundation of quicksand, and a platform
of cobwebs. They will see, sooner or later, that
it will melt from under their feet as the dew
wastes before the morning sun. Let them heap
reproach upon my head, and scoff at the order
of celestial marriage, what do I care? it does not
hurt me in the least. I rejoice in my religion,
and I appreciate the blessings that I enjoy as a
Latter-day Saint.
	I have borne the contempt and sneers of the
world for years, and I can still bear them. My
hope is buoyant, and I fear nothing that the
enemy of righteousness can do. Let them fight
the truth, trample it in the dust, besmear it
with their filth, yet truth, eternal truth, will
rise bold and unblushing, in spite of all opposi-
tion. This is my testimony to all the world,
and it is true, whether they receive it or not.
There may be a few who will receive it, and re-
joice in the privileges and blessings that God
has bestowed upon His people in the last days.
For my part I am not ashamed of my religion;
I love every part and portion of it. Neither am
I ashamed of my name, nor would I be even if
it was,

'EMILY DOW PARTRIDGE SMITH YOUNG, ETC.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 165


LETTER VII.

TO MRS. SARAH A. CANNON.

DEAR SARAH:
	Munich, where we have just been visiting, is
where the two brothers, John Q. and Abram H.
Cannon, were when John Q. first came to Ger-
many, and I was much interested in all I could
learn about their mission here, the places they
traveled in, and so forth; how Abram used to
laugh at John Q's. peculiar pronounciation
of the German words. He took his turn this
time in laughing at me. There are many things
here to remind us of Abram, among them
some five or six hymns in the German hymn
book. I had to come to Germany to learn that
our brother was a poet.	*	*	*
	I have seen many beautiful pictures since I
came to Europe; some of the finest works by
the best masters, and I have enjoyed them more
than words can express. In the galleries where
I have been were students copying and studying
the different subjects. I have wished so many
times since I came here that I could sketch;
every day I see some lovely spot that I would
like to keep forever in remembrance.
	From the windows of the office here in Bern,
there is a beautiful view; the River Aare runs
just below, and sloping on the opposite bank is a
high, grass covered hill, dotted with pretty
Swiss cottages. I could never tire of looking at
this scene. The Aare is a very beautiful
river.	*	*	*	*	*	*
		Yours affectionately,
							ANNIE.
	BERN, Jan. 27th, 1884.


LETTER VIII.

TO MRS. BELL M. SEARS.

DEAR BELLE:
	Since I last wrote you everything has gone on
as usual. We are both quite well, and there is
not much change in the daily routine, while we
are in Barn, except an occasional invitation to
spend an evening with some of our people.
	John Q. is just about to start out on a trip
through the Central Swiss mission, though it
will not be a very long journey. Of course you
heard that we had expected to come home, then
were suddenly informed we were not to go.
	The sisters here had made every preparation
to give us a farewell surprise party, so we were
not the only ones who were disappointed,
though they declared they felt like having the
party as an expression of their delight that we
had to stay.
	It is most lovely weather here, now, just like
spring time, and so pleasant to walk over the
hills and down by the river. We can get a
charming view of the mountains, and they are
indeed lovely; crowned while with snow, and
glittering in the sunshine, with the bluest of
skies above them, and verdant hills beneath.
This is a very picturesque, odd looking city, yet
it is very attractive to me. There are such de-
lightful walks in every direction, and wherever
the eye rests, there is a most beautiful scene.
	Yet I often think that there is no pleasure in
traveling or seeing the world compared with the
pleasure of being with our loved ones. We can
not have too much of the society of those we
love, and only too soon separations come with-
out our bringing them about ourselves.
	With great love for all at home.	*	*	*
								ANNIE.
	BERN, Feb. 12th, 1884.


LETTER IX. 

BERN, Feb. 29th, 1884

MY DEAR MOTHER: 
	For several days we have been saying, on the
20th we must write to mother, sure, and we
have lost no opportunity to inform everyone
that this month our mother will have a birth-
day, which is indeed quite an event in our fam-
ily. How I wish I could be with you to day,
and enjoy the sweet pleasure of your company.
I have been wondering, this morning, how you
would celebrate the day. I hope, however, It
may be a happy, cloudless day for you, and
that it is only the beginning of many happy
years that are to follow. 
	John Q and myself are both in excellent
health, and enjoying ourselves splendidly. John
Q. returned from his trip through the Central
Swiss Conference last Tuesday. He had a very
pleasant time	*	*	To-morrow he
starts off again into the East Swiss Conference
to make some changes there and visit those
branches. I am very glad that he can now get
time to be out among the people more, and a-
way from the office work, though it is very
lonely for me when he is away. He is going
among all the Swiss branches, and perhaps into
the German, we cannot tell until some definite
work is begun concerning emigration.
	Concerning masque balls, I quite agree with
you; not that I know anything wrong about
them myself, for I never attended one, but sim-
ply because I think a prejudice against them was
born in me, and I always rather encouraged that
prejudice.
	We read the papers with much interest, es-
pecially the parts pertaining to the Utah legis-
lation. Even here, in this remote region, there
is much persecution among the Saints, and it


[Column 1]
all seems to originate from ignorance and mal-
ice.
	Three cases lately have come to our notice
where the persecution was put upon a poor, de-
fenceless woman, actuated by nothing more nor
less than spite. One sister here has been very
sick, so low that her recovery was thought to be
doubtful. She was taken to the hospital, where
she received [---] nursing and food, her ailment
being such that she did not require a doctor,
only good nursing was necessary. Here she im-
proved in health quite rapidly, when, through
some of her friends calling to see her, it became
known that she was a Mormon, in one way and
another, they slighted and persecuted her after
that, and finally brought her a paper to sign,
which paper said she was to declare herself for-
ever more against the Mormons, and promise
never to have anything more to do with them; if
she signed this she might stay, if not she had to
go, and though she was not able to leave her
bed, and had no comfortable place to go to, she
left them. When she came here to tell us, and
I saw how her poor knees trembled, and how
weak and emaciated she looked, it made my
heart ache; how could they be so heartless to a
fellow creature? I would'nt test anyone, were
he my bitterest enemy, so cruelly as that, and
she is a good, honest woman, with nothing in
the world against her but her faith.
	Another case occurred in Neuchatel. We have
in that city only three members; a woman and
her little family of two children. Here the
priest, a pretended minister of the gospel, one
who chooses for a text words from that Holy
Book, where charity is so beautifully taught, has
persecuted this poor woman most unmercifully.
He used his influence against her with the peo-
ple, who gave her work, so that he cut off her
only means of sustaining herself and family,
and then persuaded the people, from whom she
rented her room, to drive her cut; this they
could not do just yet as she had paid in advance,
but she is to go as soon as her time is up. In
the mean time she can get no work and no one
will hellp her, so bitterly has the priest worked
against her He went to her and tried to per-
suade her from her belief, and failing in this be-
came so enraged that he actually struck her, and
said she would be driven from the town, for
they wanted no Mormons there. What she will
do I cannot tell. I hope her oldest girl can be
emigrated, then she might be some assistance to
her mother.
	There are many cases of poverty and want a-
mong our people here, but not so much persecu-
tion as I had really expected, though when
cases do come they are usually very heartless
and cruel, such as the ones I have cited.
	I was quite astonished to see in the JUVENILE
a sketch from Sister Atwood's pen. When did
she start out in the literary field? I should think
she might facor the EXPONENT with some of
her articles.
	To-night we have a Relief Society meeting,
and to-morrow night some of the young folks
are going to have a concert here, so you see we
have our little pastimes among ourselves, and
enjoy ourselves very much together. Some of
the girls are very good singers, and I like very
much to hear their Alpine melodies; they are so
pretty, and would delight you I know. If Louie
could hear them she would quickly catch the
tune, and "yodel" like a native, but I am so dull
about picking up tunes that I don't suppose I
ever shall learn them. We have been having
a spell of wet weather lately, and very little
sunshine the last week, but according to the pa-
pers we have been remarkably blessed here in
comparison to what other towns have suffered.
Give my love to father and all the family.
	Remember me to all your lady friends, who's
kindly mention me, and give my love to my
dear sisters, their families and to Louie and my
darling boy.
	For yourself dear mother, accept the fend love
of your daughter, who thinks of ou ever, and
prays continually for your happiness and wel-
fare.					Lovingly,
								Annie


166	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
﻿PRIDE AND DRESS. 

	In looking around and  witnessing the ex-
travagance in dress that is obtaining among
many of our young people, and listening to
young ladies talk about dress, I am often re-
minded of the Nephites of old, how they be-
came proud in their hearts and lifted up be-
cause of their fine apparel one above another;
how the rich felt themselves better than their
poor brothers and sisters; also how the judg-
ments of God were poured out upon them be-
cause of these things. There seems to be a
great similarity between their condition then
and ours at the present day, for it is clearly
apparent to all thinking persons that we are
fast drifting into that same state of pride and
folly for which they were chastened. Some
are lifted up in their own estimation because of
their riches, and "class distinction" is fast gain-
ing ground.
	I sometimes fear that we will have to be chas-
tened in order to humble us and compel us to
feel after the Lord. He has said, "Thou shalt 
have no other God before me," and He will not
always bear with those who make a god of the
things of this world. Many of our sisters, the
young ladies especially, seem to think of very
little else than how to adorn their bodies to
present a beautiful appearance, yet they would
be shocked were you to tell them that dress
was their god. But it is verily true that that
which occupies most of our thoughts, that
which we love and delight to reflect upon, is
indeed our god, although we may not realize
the fact. Whenever our mind or time is so ta-
ken up with the adornment of our bodies that
we have not full time to attend to all our meet-
ings and perform every duty pertaining to our
religion, then we are wasting our time and en-
ergies on that wherein there is no profit, and
neglecting that which is of special importance
to us, thereby committing sin in not living up 
to the great privileges our Father has given to 
His daughters in this our day. He has given
us all the talents, reason, judgment, strength 
of body and mind, which we possess, and re-
quires us to use them in His service, and not
in the gratification of our own selfish, proud
natures. What fashionable young lady has
any time to devote to religious purposss? All
can plainly see they have none whatever. Now, 
God's Kingdom must be built up by mortals
here on the earth, and it is equally binding up-
on all the human family to take part in this 
great labor; and as it must be done by some of 
His children, we can see that they who shirk 
their duties must merit the displeasure of their
Father in heaven, as well as being cut off from 
the reward which will eventually be given to 
the diligent and faithful laborers. 
	This life is very short to all, and especially
so to some; then how foolish it does appear for
mortal beings to use their energies for the grat-
ification and pleasure of these earthly taberna-
cles, which will soon be laid in the grave and
crumble to dust, instead of striving for that
which will adorn, make lovely, pure and god-
like our spirits, which are destined to live for-
ever. 
	All should have pride enough to dress in a 
neat and becoming manner, and to do this
would occupy but a small portion of our time, 
but the pride that would make us vain of our
looks and dress, or lift us up in our own esti-
mation above our poorly dressed sisters is sin-

[Column 2]
ful in the extreme, and the Lord will, sooner
or later, humble those who indulge in such
pride. Subduing our wills and the pride of 
our hearts is the deepest and hardest lesson
that mortals have to learn, says Helen Mar
Whitney, and we cannot begin too early to 
learn this important lesson, for we "came not
to do our own will, but the will of our Father
in heaven;" and He has told us that He loves
the meek and the humble, and we certainly, 
even the youngest, desire the love of our Hea-
venly Parent. We should pray constantly that
we may love God and His Gospel more than 
anything else in this world, then if we have 
the love of God in our hearts there will be no
room for the love of dress and fashion; our 
thoughts will dwell on nobler themes, and our 
conversation will be profitable, for "Out of the 
abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh."
						MARY F. 
	Written for the Y. L. M. I. A. of the 11th 
Ward.


A CIRCULAR

TO THE YOUNG LADIES' MUTUAL IMPROVE-
MENT ASSOCIATIONS OF THE CACHE
VALLEY STAKE OF ZION.

	[This circular was prepared expressly for the young
ladies of Cache Valley Stake, but thinking it appropri-
ate for all the organizations, we take pleasure in giv-
ing it to the public through the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.]
—ED.

DEAR SISTERS:
	In reviewing our work of the past year, we
find improvement has been made by many of
the Associations, and we hope to make very
great improvement in the future if we profit
by the experience gained. Then let us, in the
new year just opening before us, renew our ex-
ertions, and strive more diligently to accom-
plish the tasks appointed, that at its close we
may feel better satisfied and better qualified to 
fulfil our duties.
	Your faith and works are earnestly desired
in the cause of Mutual Improvement. The
Presidency of the Church, in its wisdom, has
organized these Associations that the young
people in Zion may have an opportunity of  ac-
quiring knowledge and learning how to use it,
that they may become acquainted with the
writings of inspired men, with the science of
theology, and the truths found in science, his-
tory, literature and art.
	The first step in this work of improving our-
selves, is to learn the will of our Father in
Heaven.  We may do this by reading careful-
ly the Bible, Church works and other good
 books; by listening to the instructions of His
authorized servants; by being humble, prayer-
ful, and obedient to those in authority; by
seeking good society, and finding pleasure in
the faithful performance of all duties which de-
volve upon us as daughters of Zion.
	Search the Scriptures and Church Works,
inform ourselves that we may be able to de-
fend the principles of our faith, and teach the
glorious truth to younger brothers and sis-
ters. It is not our mission to go abroad and
labor among the nations of the earth, but we
have a great and noble work to do at home.
Let us not waste time in wishing and waiting
to do some great thing afar off, but secure fa-
vor in the sight of God by observing and doing
the little duties that lie near us.
	Each officer and member of the Associa-
tions in this Stake is particularly requested to 
observe and execute the following sugges-
tions:
	Be industrious; idleness promotes iniquity.
It is written, "An idle brain is the devil's work-
shop."
	No girl should consider herself properly ed-
ucated until she has mastered some employ-


[Column 1]
﻿ment or accomplishment by which she can gain
a living, should she have occasion to support
herself; hence, every girl should have a knowl-
edge of housework, and do such work cheerful-
ly, for much of the happiness depends upon it;
she should learn the art of housekeeping in all
its departments; she should have a knowledge
of arithmetic that her accounts may be kept
accurately, of spelling and writing, that her
communications may be neatly and correctly
represented.
	Encourage the study of vocal and instrumen-
tal music. It makes home more pleasant, and
meetings more attractive. It has a refining,
softening influence with the wayward, and
reaches them when words fail. Learn to read
well; this is an accomplishment within the
reach of all.
	Order is a necessary virtue; there can be no
comfort without it. To have a place for things
and not keep them in it, is like having wise
laws and paying no regard to them. Cultivate
order and method.
	The deportment of the older children of a
family is of great importance to the younger
members. Especially is the position of eldest
daughter one of responsibility. Let her then
take double pains to be amiable, wise and in-
dustrious, loving and obedient to parents, cour-
teous and polite to all; but particularly to the
aged.
	Read books which treat of women. Every
woman should have a knowledge of herself, for
in such knowledge is her safety. Guard sacred-
ly your virtue by purity of thought and act-
ion. There will be no brighter jewel in your
crown.
	Inasmuch as the Presidency of the Church
have, at different times, expressed their disap-
proval of round dancing, the officers and mem-
bers of these Associations are recommended to
abstain from it.
	Observe the counsel of your presiding offi-
cers in regard to conducting parties and enter-
tainments. Avoid being drawn into fashions
and habits of dancing which are unbecoming.
Write for your manuscript paper.
	Never speak lightly of things we hold sa-
cred. Attend Sabbath School and Meeting.
When the Sacrament is administered, partake
of it humbly in remembrance of our Savior.
	Never be rude and boisterous. Always a-
void talking, laughing and whispering in meet-
ing or where it will disturb others.
	Avoid backbiting and criticising authorities.
Avoid slang expressions.
	Cultivate faith, charity and mercy. Tell
one another in a kind, sisterly manner of
faults.
	Commit to memory sentences, stanzas, and
paragraphs from any good work.
	Be truthful in thought, word and deed.
	Urge young men to abstain from the use of
tobacco and intoxicating liquors. Beware of
those who have no faith in God, or who speak
lightly of sacred ordinances.
	Pay your donations to the Deseret Hospital
promptly every month. It is conducted by
women for the benefit of the afflicted, and
should be sustained by the sisters.
	Temple donations should be made in the
name of the giver, and not in the name of the
society.
Learn and teach proper methods of ventila-
tion, bathing, etc., for good health is necessary
to enable one to study, work and life.
	(Officers.) Hold your meetings regularly
and promptly at the appointed hour. If you
are unable to attend, send an excuse. Some of
the officers should always be present.
	In conjoint sessions the Priesthood should al-
ways preside. Devote a part of each meeting
to bearing testimonies. Have, if possible, one
or more representatives present at our confer-
ences, and at the. officers’ meetings, in Logan
Tabernacle, at the same day and hour as
(Column two)
Priesthood meeting.
	The Secretary should keep a roll and a cor-
rect record of meetings; should give one or
more sentences in the speakers’ exact words,
and be careful to give the purport of what is
said and done.
Keep the minutes copied in a suitable book.
If the Secretary is unable to do this, she
should resign that another may be appointed
who can attend to the work. Keep a correct
account of the money received and paid out,
so that the financial report will be correct.
The money you have paid out, added to the
money you have on hand, must equal the
whole amount received, then your account is
said to balance; if it does not balance there is
some mistake.
	Look at the reports for semi-annual reports,
and see that a correct record of all items men-
tioned thereon is kept. Fill the reports
promptly and return at specified time.
	If the Secretary does not know how to keep
the books, let her seek information from some
one in the ward, or bring the book to the offi-
cers’ meeting, and the Secretary will teach
her.
	Members, carry out the instructions of your
officers.	
	The Programme Committee will find profit-
able lessons to bring before the members in the
following works:
	Bible.—Daniel, first and second chapters;
Proverbs third and fourth chapters; Matthew,
third, fifth, sixth, seventh, thirteenth aud
twenty- fifth chapters.
Book of Mormon.—Books of Ether, Mosiah,
Alma; Third Book of Nephi; Book of Moroni,
and Second Book of Nephi, second chapter.
	Voice of warning. Key to Theology, Spen-
cer’s Letters, Preceptor, and in the Faith Pro-
moting Series.
	Use a portion or all of the money made at
entertainments and parties to purchase books
for your Library. Send the money with a list
of the books you already have, and those you
want, to Ida I. Cook, Logan, and a committee
will complete the list and order the books for
you. By ordering a number they can be had
cheaper.
	Trusting that you may have profitable and
interesting meetings, and much pleasure in the
great Work of Mutual Improvement, and
wishing you a Happy New Year, wo are your
co-laborers and Sisters in the Gospel,
					Harriet A. Preston,
					Ida I. Cook,
					Kennie B. Caine,
Presidency Y.L.M.I.A. Cache Valley Stake.
	Logan, Utah, January 1st, 1884.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 167


﻿IN MEMORIAM.

	DIED, at Hyde Park, Feb. 17th, 1884, Louisa King,
wife of William Beddingfield. Deceased was born July
28th, 1827, at Allsaints, Suffolk, England. She came to
Hyde Park at its first settlement; has been a member of
the Hyde Park Relief Society since its organization
and acted in the capacity of teacher for the same until
prevented by the sickness that terminated her existence
here.
	She was loved and respected by all her acquaintances,
those who have known her since childhood testify to
her pure and exemplary life.
	She leaves a husband and a host of relatives to mourn
her loss. She has been the mother of two children, who
both died in infancy. She has been a great sufferer for
many years, but passed away peaceful.
							M. E. GRIFEETH,
							Secretary Relief Society.


[Column 1]
CAROLINE B. CROSBY.

	Obituary notice of the death of Mother Crosby, who
died on the 17th of February, 1884, aged seventy-seven
years, one month and twelve days.
	Caroline Barnes Crosby was the daughter of Willard

[Column 2]
and Dolly Stevens Barnes, born in the town of War-
wick, Franklin County, Massachusetts, on the 5th of
January, 1807.	
	Her parents removed to Dunham, Canada East, when
she was three years and a half old, where she was reared
and lived until she was married, which took place on
the 26th of October, 1824. She, with her husband, then
removed to Wendell, Franklin Co., Mass, where she was
baptized the following January, 1835, by Elder Samuel
Bent, into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints: Up to the time of her baptism she had been a
member of the Church of England. On the 2nd day of
November she, with her husband, started for Kirtland,
Ohio, where they arrived in the fore part of January
1846, after a cold and tedious journey. There her hus-
band worked on the temple to pay for their board until
the temple was dedicated. And on the 14th of Decem-
ber following their son Alma was born, and living in a
cold, unfinished room, she suffered from much sickness
during the winter; during the season following there
was much apostatizing from the Church, and also very
hard times for living. In the month of June, 1838, with
her husband, she made a visit of five month's duration
with her sister, the wife of Brother Addison Pratt, in
the town of Chautauqua, State of New York, and in the
month of November of the same year, in company with
Brother and Sister Pratt and family, started west; came
on to Putman County, Indiana, and hearing of the ex-
pulsion of the Saints from Missouri, and not knowing
where they would locate, stayed there until the month
of June, 1842, then moved on to Nauvoo, where her
husband worked on the Temple till it was finished suffic-
iently to receive endowments, and with her husband she
went through all the ordinances performed in the Tem-
ple there; she also became a member of the Relief Socie-
ty in Nauvoo, and suffered much sickness and destitu-
tion, witnessing, also, many of the scenes of mobocracy
and violence inflicted upon the Saints there, and late in
the fall of 1846 her husband, by his own labor, having
succeeded in getting a new wagon prepared, and not
having a team of his own, by the kindness of brethren
in the Church, were hauled along by their teams up to
the town of Benton's post, State of Iowa; there they
lived till the spring of 1848, then having obtained a team
by very hard labor among the Gentiles at low wages,
they moved on to Winter Quarters on the Missouri riv-
er.
	There they joined Amasa Lyman's company and
moved on to Salt Lake Valley, arriving there on the 12th
of October of the same year. They resided in Salt Lake
Valley till the spring of 1850, then, being appointed at
the April Conference with others, in connection with
Brother A. Pratt and his family, went on a mission to
the South Pacific Islands. They set sail from San Fran-
cisco in the month of August, arriving on the Islands
in September following. The sailing on the ocean did
not agree with her, she being sea-sick during both pas-
sages, coming and going. She resided on the island of
Tubual during the mission with her sister (Pratt) and
family, her time being occupied, in connection with her
sister, in teaching schools of the native children. But
being so much advanced in years she and her sister did
not learn the native language so as to speak it as fluent-
ly as the younger members of the families. She took
several of the native children to live with her and
taught them English. The natives of the Islands were
very kind to all the missionaries, furbishing them with
all necessary food and provisions while they remained
on the islands.
	In the month of May, 1852, they sailed from the Is-
land of Tubual to the largest of the Islands, that of Ta-
hiti, where the French had possessions and exercised ju-
risdiction over all the islands. There her husband
worked at his trade and earned sufficient to pay their
passage back to San Francisco, Cal., Sister Pratt and
family having preceded them on the return homeward,
landing again in San Franscisco in September, 1852, hav-
ing been gone two years from that city. Her husband then
carried on a farm for one season in San Jose Valley, Cal.
after which they went back to San Francisco, where
they lived about two years, her husband working at his
trade. In November, 1855, they sailed from San Fran-
cisco along the coast of California to the landing of
San Pedro, thence to San Bernadino in Southern Cali-
fornia. There they resided two years, in the mean-
time making a nice place and a comfortable home, but
in consequence of the call of the Presidency of the
Church to the Saints in San Bernadino to come away
from there and gather to Utah, they, with the rest, left
their pleasant home there, which they were compelled
to sell at a cheap rate, and gathered up to the Valleys
of the Mountains.


S﻿tarting on New Year’s Day, 1858. from San Bernardi-
no, and arrived on the first day of April at Johnson’s
Fort in Iron Co., where they rented land for one sea-
son and farmed. Then in November of ’58 came to Bea-
ver, Beaver Co., where Brother and Sister Crosby have
lived continuously up to the time of her death.
	Sister Crosby was a faithful and devoted member of
the Relief Society in Beaver, acting as a teacher in that
organization for a considerable length of time. Many
a day has she travelled the streets of Beaver for the pur-
pose of exhorting her slsters to faithfulness in the prin-
ciples of the Gospel of Chrlst. She also made four
journeys to the St. George Temple with her husband to
do work for her dead, and was baptized for about one
hundred of her deceased relatives, and received endow-
ments for fifteen. She was respected for her liberality
and charity to the poor, and has passed away in.the
hope of rising in the first resurrection to eternal glory
and a crown.

LINES COMPOSED ON THE DEATH OF SISTER CROSBY
	BY HER HUSBAND, J. CROSBY.

Farewell, my kind and faithful friend,
The	partner of my youth,
Forty-nlne long years we have been
United in the truth.

And now my work on earth is done,
And I am called away,
So I must go, my time has come,
I can no longer stay.

I go because my Father calls,
His voice we must obey;
Farewell, my kindred, friends, and all,
You, too, must past away.

This is the doom that’s fixed for all
The hosts of Adam's race;
They must put off this mortal coil 
To see the Father’s face.

Then we can rest in peace and wait
Till Michael’s trumpet sounds,
Then with the faithful Saints awake
To glory and a crown.

Be faithful then, beloved friends,
And do not weep for me,
In faith hold on until the end,
And great our joy will be.

When Jesus in the clouds descends
With hosts of angels, too,
Then we'll arise with all our friends
In celestial glory too.

Oh! the joy, no tongue can tell
The pleasure then so sweet;
Husbands and wives their loved ones hail,
And will each other greet.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Whereas it has pleased the Great Creator to take un-
to himself, after a long and useful life, our much loved
sister, Caroline Crosby, and,
	Whereas it is fitting that she be held in honorable re-
membrance,
	Therefore, be it resolved by the Ladies' Relief Society
of Beaver City, That while we mourn, not as those who
have no hope, yet we realize that in the death of Sister
Crosby we have lost a valued assistant, the poor a
friend and her family a wise and loving counselor.
	Resolved, That we extend our deepest sympathy to
all the members of her family.
	Resolved, That these resolutions be put upon the rec-
ords of the Relief Society, and a copy thereof be sent to
the family of our dear sister, and to the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT.				DELILAH F. COX,
						S. M. Dell,
						HARRIET E. SHEPHERD,
										Committee.


168	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARIES.

EDITOR EXPONENT;

	It becomes my painful duty to announce the death of
Sister Karen Westenskow, beloved wife of Brother
Hans Westenskow, chief musician of this place. She
was born March 21st. 1839, died March 2nd, 1884.
	The departed sister had acted as a teacher for about
four years, and as treasurer for the last two years in the
Relief Society in this place; she was faithful in all her


duties, and died in the full faith of the Gospel. Peace
be to her ashes.
				Your sister in the Gospel,
						ANNIE R. KELLER, Secretary.

	DIED, at Curtis, Arizona, March 7th., 1884, Martha
Curtis, wife of Bishop Monroe Curtis.
	Sister Curtis was first counselor to the president of
Relief Society of the Curtis Ward, and died as she had
lived, in the faith of the Gospel and the hope of a glor-
ious resurrection. She had obeyed and honored the law
of celestial marriage, and no doubt will come forth to
enjoy a celestial glory. We condole with the bereaved
family.								W. EAST.

	DIED, in Salt Lake City, March 18, Celeste C. Riser,
daughter of Elder George C. and Christina Riser, born
in this city, September 18, 1860.
	Deceased was a very gentle and amiable girl; quiet
and unassuming in manner, and was dearly beloved by
her friends and relatives. Her early and, as it were, un-
timely death, has almost crushed her father, who loved
her very tenderly, and as she had lost her mother many
years before, he felt a more special nearness to her.
	It is always sad when the young and beautiful die,
and yet we do not always know, but they are taken in
mercy from evil to come. The funeral services were
conducted by Bishop Kesler in the 16th Ward Meeting
House; President A. M. Cannon and Joseph E. Taylor
addressed the large congregation assembled to do honor
to the dead.


CORRECTION.

	A misprint occurred in the article by Dr. E.
S. Barney, headed Some Interesting Facts. It
should read 3 grains of Iodine, instead of 3
quarts. An h should be used instead of k in
two places, as, duch, and stone shonld be stove.


﻿SPENCER HOUSE.

	We are so often spoken to in reference to a
good house to stop at by strangers visiting our
city, as also by our people from the settlements,
that we take pleasure in recommending the
"Spencer House" as thoroughly respectable,
clean and pleasant. The table has long borne
the reputation of not being excelled; the
grounds are the largest of any hotel grounds in
the city, which, with its extensive lawns and
abundant shade trees, make it pre-eminently a
most inviting resort for tourists—prices are
reasonable.
	This house is situated on Post Office Block,
1st East, between 2nd and 3rd South, Nos. 251
and 252.


[Column 1]
For Sale at this Office.

BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.

PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,		-	25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,		40c.	"
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1		-		$1.00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco,		1.50	"

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
	Office and residence, Main Street, in the new Mor-
ris building, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I.
	SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS, & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYES, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence.

[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.

SALT LAKE CITY., Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
	CLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.

☞ We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

[Image of store]
HENRY DINWOODEY.
FURNITURE.
WALL PAPER,
CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUINS
AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY.

F Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 12.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. APRIL 15, 1884. No. 22.


"LET THERE BE LIGHT"

Light!—what a world of wealth is light!
In all its grandeur, all its might.
Light is indeed direct from heaven,
The grandest boon to mortals given;
A symbol of Jehovah's smile,
That nought can sully or defile;
An emblem of the realms above,
Engendering life, and health, and love.
Without a stain it travels space,
It—nought can injure or deface;
It blesses earth with vivid ray,
And life in varied forms obey;
And wheresoever it may shine
It tells of life and light divine.
	This genial, life engendering light,
	Brings untold beauties into sight.
No blade of grass could raise its head,
No floweret leave its leafy bed,
Did not this light upon it shine,
The very breath of life divine!
Imagine if this orb of day
Was from our planet drawn away,
Engulfing all this beauteous world
In lurid darkness to be hurled!
And death and blackness like a pall
Enshrouding all this glorious ball.
The very thought arrests our breath,
So monstrous is the scene of death.
Yet day by day we see it rise
In grandeur in the eastern skies;
Yet seldom think our heart to raise
In grateful and adoring praise,
For that command "Let there by light!"
The smile of God dispersing night.

"Walk as children of the light."
In the light that God has made;
In the sunshine—not the shade—
Light that nothing can obscure,
Light that ever shall endure;
Light! the very smile of God!
Revolving even round His rod;
"As the children of the light"
Let us walk through day and night.
							HANNAH T. KING.

Salt Lake City, April 4th, 1884.


[Column 1]
EXTRACTS FROM A LETTER.

BY A GENTILE.

Feb. 23rd, 1884.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	My homeward passage was very gratifying in
deed over a new line of road to me, and new
scenery to interest. I made some slight notes of
this trip, which were published in the Capital,
a daily I write for occasionally.
	Since my return I have read every thing-
you gave me to Mrs. C——. Have examined
it thoroughly, and comparing the written state-
ments with my observed facts while in your
city and Territory came to the conclusion that
you were truthful and of "good intent," to say
the least. Mrs. C.'s feelings were evidently
softened towards her sisters in "Salt Lake"
when she came to know your side of the story
—before she had only read and heard the oth-
er side, much of it from the book published by
Ann Eliza the 19th. How hard it is to do
justice to ourselves, even when ancient preju-
dice triumphs. Mrs. C. is utterly opposed to the
Edmund's bill project of disfrachisement, and
we shall both fight it to the bitter end, and so
will most of our co-workers in Boston and
elsewhere.
	Among the statements I have made since

[Column 2]
my return is the following, which has made me
rather obnoxious to some of my former repub-
lican associates, I can afford to lose them all,
however, for truth and justice is worth more to
me than compromised friendship. I stated
that crime and prostitution was more than 80
per cent committed by the (so termed) Gentile
population of Utah; which statement I still feel
able to sustain. This was astounding to them,
for they had an idea and thought they knew, it
was precisely the reverse. This, of course,
they did not permit to enter the columns of
the papers, for what is published in the papers
here has a great effect on the average reader.
I also stated that all the "rum holes" in Salt
Lake City, with the exception of two, so far
as I could learn, were kept by the non-Mor-
mon population. This I adhere to yet; am I
right? Another statement whihc was equally
appalling, that all the houses of 	*	*	as
known to the police force, were kept by non-
Mormons, and as far as I could learn, by Roman
Catholic Christians. Can I sustain this? An-
other, that the soldiers of Camp Douglas had
nothing to do but drink whiskey, visit places of
amusement, etc.
	Another thing, they had in the territorial
prison in Salt Lake 62 prisoners of the rough-
est kind of criminal men, except two, and they
were and innocent woman and child, placed
there for no other reason under heaven than
that of refusing to tell who was the father of
that child. Incarcerated in that cile prison
house with sixty as vile creatures as God ever
suffered in the shape of men. A pure, clean-
looking and evidently virtuous woman with a
beautiful child just beginning to learn to walk,
kept in there and guarded as a felon, because
the majesty of the law so ordered it, accusing
her of having insulted their dignity by refus-
ing to answer their insolent questions. I told
them of the polling places, of the women voting,
and of the good behavior observed at the polls.
That the people came well dressd and with
clean faces and calm deportment-- that there
was no hurry or rowdyism permitted there, be-
cause it was as much a woman's election as a
man's. That the women seemed to understand
what they were voting for and who they were
voting for as well as the men, and that no such
quiet voting places were to be seen in any of
the states wherever I had been-- and I had
been in nearly all of them. I found one man
here in	*	*	filling an honorable place
(or what it ought to be) who did not know even
that the women voted in Utah. The great ar-
gument has been that you are all growing
up in ignorance on account of your poor school
system, but when I told them that Utah stood
nearly as high in educational status as the
people of Massachusetts, (using a nautical
phrase) they were all taken aback.
	Now the facts of my observations are, that
for the seven weeks I spent in your beautiful
city, I saw more wickedness, badness among
the gentiles than the Mormons. The Mormon
ideas of religion seem very absurd to me. If
it were mere children's play it would seem
more in place, but for the plan and way of sal-
vation it to me is simply ridiculous, yet no
more so than all others I have expamined. It
may be the best for aught I know, but I say,
it seems to me very foolish and absurd.
	You have as much argument in favor of
your method as any of the rest have, as far as
I can see. And if a tree is to be known by
its fruits, I must say that yours looks as sound
to me as any I see anywhere in the world. I
have tried to see wherein you were traitors to
the governmment, but cannot make it out, al-
thogh you were denounced as such.
	If you would abandon ONE practice, you
would be one of the most prosperous people in
the world, in my opinion, for the other points
of your religion, or many of them, teach fru-
gality, protection to each othe and a system of
complete and universal industry. I hope the
time is not far distant when you will all see this
matter in what I believe to be the true light
and abandon a practice which will surely en-
tail upon you lasting troubles of various kinds.
While in your city I received from your peo-
ple the kindest and gentlest of treatment, and
I shall never cease to thank you for it, and I
shall doubtless cherish a sort of fraternal feel-
ing for your people to the day of my death. I
hope for your success and that you will purify
and purge from your body corporate all the
evils of life as fast as you find them out-- be
radical in this; don't hesitate to do right,
though the "heavens fall." I shall aid you in
it all I can and ever protest against our gov-
ernemnt planning or taking action to deprive
you of your just and lawful rights.
	Mrs. C. is away on a lecturing tour; will be
home in a week and remain at home, I hope,
till summer. The legislature has done well for
temperance in the Senate, we hope it will in
the house; and we hope they will submit the
suffrage amendment to the people's vote. We
shall see!
	Please remember me to Mr. Wells and the
rest of the family; and remember me for your-
self as a fraternal friend in all just work.
							J. B. C.


A WOMAN'S TESTIMONY.

	"There is a way which seemeth right unto man,
but the end thereof is death."

	When I read of the unconstitutional efforts
made by those who are not of us to overthrow
the work the Lord has commenced to bring
about, the great and last dispensation of the
fulness of times, this passage of Scripture oc-
curs to my mind: "The wisdom of their
wise men shall perish." It stimulates me to
renewed diligence and zeal. We have been
taught to expect persecution, and many things
that the Prophet Joseph foretold are rushing to
fulfilment, which indicates a crisis at hand.
	In the fall of 1840 I was baptized into the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
My father was a most upright man and taught
his children to be so. He did not believe in
the religions of the day, but would say, "It is
good to go to church and pray, but the true
priesthood is not with us." These remarks led
me to reflect, and I discovered, so far as I had
the opportunity, that all the Christian denom-
inations embraced some truths, but none of
them were in accord with the Scriptures of the
New Testament.
	I read the Bible with avidity, and would
ponder on the "gathering of Israel from the
four corners of the earth, etc.," and queried,
when will these things be?
	I went to our venerable clergyman with my
doubts about our method of baptism. He was
kind, and lent me books on the subject. I was
not, at that time, aware that the Lord was pre-
paring my mind to receive the Gospel of Jesus
Christ at the hands of an Elder, authorized by


the Holy Priesthood to administer the ordin-
ances. He was slow to introduce the subject,
and I looked upon him as deluded until I be-
gan to investigate, when I became alarmed lest
it should be true. Then what should I do?
Must I give up all—kindred, friends, society
and the comforts of life? This seemed to be
the sacrifice required, and which I cheerfully
accepted, and have ever been thankful to be
numbered with the children of God.
	The signs of the times are very manifest that
the dawning of a brighter day for the Saints
is approaching more rapidly than many are a-
ware. Darkness precedes the light. The ad-
versary fears and trembles, for his time is short.
"The kingdoms of this world shall become the
kingdoms of our Lord and His Christ," and
all the efforts of the puny arm of flesh cannot
stay the work of the Lord; the sooner their cup
of iniquity is filled, the more it will hasten the
redemption of Zion, and His people will be
free.
	President Taylor was not afraid to accom-
pany the Prophet Joseph and his noble breth-
ren to prison where death awaited them at the
hands of a murderous mob, and that, because
they worshiped the true and living God, and
for none other cause. A watch worn by Presi-
dent Taylor providentially saved his life, the
bullet aimed striking the watch instead of his
heart; he was already wounded, almost unto
death, and is to-day a living martyr. Neither
will he fear the advance of a similar foe in a
different form, for God is with him and with
His people.
	The Lord will permit those who are seeking
to destroy and scatter His people to accom-
plish His will, and thus far can they go, and no
further. Then will He sanctify His children,
and "make the wrath of man to praise Him.,"
	There may be some who think they are do-
ing God's service, but it is said, "There is a
way which seemeth right unto man, but the
end thereof is death."
	Oh! that men, and women too, would con-
sider before they enter such a perilous barque
and make shipwreck of their souls for it is a
fearful thing to measure arms with the Al-
mighty.
	God bless our brethren who are laboring so
faithfully for the good of Zion, and our sis-
ters are not idle, all are anxious to win souls
to a knowledge of the truth as it is in Jesus.
Amen.					M. A. P. HYDE.


170	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
OUR TRAVELS BEYOND THE
MISSISSIPPI.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(To be Continued.)

	We started from this place about eight a.m.,
and on ascending the opposite hill saw that
President B. Young had not yet started, so our
company stopped and waited till their teams
had got out of the way, when we went on,
crossing the bridge which they had just built.
"This," Horace says, "like the one at the
"Sleeping Rock," had no other foundation than
floodwood."
	We passed through the timber, and after
crossing a small bottom and ascending a hill on
the opposite side of the river, there we saw a
grave, which was covered with logs laid up in
an oblong form and about three feet high,
something like a log building. The stream we
crossed was called by the Indians the "Nishinie
Botany Run." We were told that the grave
we saw was that of one of the brethren in Bro.
Wright's company. We stopped again about
noon and baited our cattle while waiting for a
bridge to be finished, and camped that night
on a "divide" near timber, with quite a large
creek on one side and a branch of the same on
the other. Here we met Bro. Cummings, who
had come from Council Bluffs the day before,

[Column 2]
with the information that Bro. Emmet's com-
pany were thirty miles below the Bluffs on
the river, and had taken jobs of work there in
order to get provisions to prosecute their jour-
ney. He also said that twelve wagons, "Mor-
mons," had come up from St. Louis, and that
a U. S. officer had told them that he was order-
ed to prohibit all suspicious persons from cross-
ing the State line, hinting that the "Mormons"
were the persons meant.
	Friday, 12th. We were not able to start
till nearly noon, having to build another bridge.
Early in the morning father called the people
of the camp together and selected twenty-five
men to go to work at the bridge. President
Young and Bishop Miller also assisted; they
were encamped within a short distance of
us.
	"Saturday, 31st," Horace wrote, "we were
detained this morning about the same length of
time we were yesterday morning in building a
bridge—we then started—the weather sultry.
We stopped about two o'clock p.m., baited our
cattle, and had to drive them about a mile to
water, in fact there has been so much dry
weather and so little rain in this part that
there is a great drought throughout the coun-
try.	*	*	*	Bro. K. went ahead
to look out a good camping ground, he return-
ed, having found one, and we all started and
went a mile and a half further—somewhat out
of our way in order to have a good place for
our cattle."
	According to Horace's journal we were now
in sight of Council Bluffs on "Musquito
Creek," where they had to stop to build another
bridge before we could proceed further, and
then we had to retrace our steps and travel six
miles round to accomplish the two miles a-
cross to the river.
	Horace wrote: "Traveled about ten miles to-
day. We found another beautiful spring of
water in this place, in fact the ground here ap-
pears to be full of springs. The scenery a-
round us is entirely different from that through
which we have hitherto been traveling, abound-
ing in hills and dales and murmuring rivulets
aud considerably resembles that of the New
England States."
	The heat of the weather was now at its
height, and the whole country around abound-
ed in straw-berries, rasp-berries and black-ber-
ries, and other fruits indigenous to the coun-
try; and the day following our arrival there a
number of our girls went out strawberrying.
this was Sunday, and father rode over about a
mile to President Young's camp, and learned
there that Bishop Miller had been to see the a-
gents, who agreed to furnish spokes and pitch
for the building of a ferry boat; if, after the
church had all crossed, they would give it up
to them. They wished us to have nothing to
say to the Indians in the way of tampering
with them. Our companies had no disposition
to do this, but it was nothing strange that they
should view us, or any other white people, with
suspicion, for they had generally been mean
and dishonest in their dealings with the
Indians; besides, they had been warned by a
United States officer to beware of us, but we
had too much at stake to take advantage of
the tribes, traveling as we were through their
Territories.
	There were certain ones in camp at the early
start who received severe rebukes from the
Presidency for being dishonest. One was the
case of a young man in Bishop Miller's camp,
who undertook to pass counterfeit money in
pay for cattle, etc. The Bishop wrote to Presi-
dent Young to excuse the young man, but
wished him to make restitution to Mr. Cochran,
the man who had been cheated by him—but
for which the Bishop received an awful rebuke,
aud was ordered to restore the property. It
was soon discovered that such characters were
not wanted among us, nor were they to be sus-

[Column 3]
tained in the camp, for the most strict laws and
rules were laid down in their council held at
Chariton, where they organized the camp.
Here are a few words from President Young's
remarks, made on the following Sabbath: "I
told them I was satisfied that the course we
were taking would prove to be the salvation,
not only of this camp, but of the Saints left
behind; but there had been things done which
were wrong. Some pleaded our suffering from
persecution, and the loss of our houses and
property, as a justification for retaliating upon
our enemies, but such a course tends to des-
troy the Kingdom of God."
	The whole of the camp started in the after-
noon and encamped on the bank of the Mis-
souri River about a mile above the trading
houses, where we saw a number of Indians and
half-breeds, who were riding about accompan-
ied by the agent, trading horses at the settle-
ment below.
	"Soon after our arrival," Horace wrote, "the
brethren met in council on the bank of the
river, to lay down certain rules for our observ-
ance while we remain here. They are as fol-
lows: Every fourth man is to assist in build-
ing the boat; one or two out of each ten to
herd cattle; while others are to go out in the
country to trade for provisions. There was a
committee of three appointed, viz., father,
Brother Rockwood and Bishop Miller, to wait
on the agents and ascertain the prices of things;
meanwhile no man is permitted to have any
traffic with the inhabitants or Indians without
having permission so to do from the proper
source."


﻿BLOOMINGTON, IDAHO.

DEAR EDITOR
	As I am about to retire from the presidency
of the Bloomington Primary Association by
permission and counsel of the presidency of
the stake, in consequence of nervous debility,
I take this opportunity of responding to the re-
quest you made some time since, and give you
a brief description of the association above
named, over which I have had the honor to
preside since its organization on June 14th,
1879, to the present time.
	We labored under the direction of J. P.
Lindsay and Counselors until a stake organiza-
tion was effected, with the following officers:
Annie Laker, President; Elizabeth Pugmire
and Elizabeth Hunt, Counselors.
	We have 125 members enrolled, with an
average attendance of 50; we have held our
meetinge weekly, and I am confident the Lord
has blessed us in our efforts from the active
part the members have taken, and the general
good feeling that has characterized our associa-
tion. We found it very difficult to get any
expression of feeling from the members, owing
to their diffidence, so we added to the exercises
an opening and closing address, and found they
worked admirably, thus inciting the older
children to think for themselves, and affording
them opportunities of expressing their thoughts
and exercising themselves in public; and in or-
der to vary ourexercises we have taken the
names of those who were not present to res-
pond to programme, and have them give the
cause of absence.
	We have a library in our association cost-
ing $18, and we have deposited to our credit in
the Liverpool Office $18 for the emigration of
some needy child. We have also donated
to the Logan Temple $8, and have on hand $7
besides property.
		Your sister in the Gospel,
				L. M. HART, President.
	Mary Patterson and Louisa Stephens,
Counselors; Phebn A. Holme, Secretary;
Mary Kroque, Assistant Secretary; Sarah
Patterson, Treasurer.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 171


THOUGHTS ON THE FUTURE LIFE.

BY M. A. GREENHALGH.

When will this dream of life be o'er,
When shall I sleep to wake no more?
And when I sleep beneath the sod
Shall I ere wake to meet my God?
Or shall I sleep an endless sleep,
The sleep of death, that slumber deep,
Which knows no waking for the soul,
Sleep that annihilates the whole?
Oh! no, my soul, that stern decree
Hath not gone forth. Mark yonder tree;
Tho' death hath laid its branches low,
Life yet from out its dust shall grow.
So when this feeble body's laid
In kindred dust within the glade,
Those springing from the grave shalt gain
A life from death, a home again.
Perhaps from out some glittering star
Thou'lt gaze upon this world from far,
And wonder how that tiny ball
Could ere have held the soul in thrall,
Or from some sphere of flowing light,
Where day eternal drives the night,
Thou'lt watch this much loved mortal world
To chaos and to ruin hurled,
Nor shed a single pitying tear
O'er what was once esteemed so dear.
Oh, why should I, then, fear to lay
This worthless dust in kindred clay,
Since God, Himself, the promise gave
That I should live beyond the grave.
He gave that promise ere He sent
My spirit here to dwell, or lent
My soul a home, where it may grow
In faith, and grace, and love below,
Till after pain and pleasure o'er
I stand on death's unfathomed shore
To wait the raising of the veil,
Knowing God's promises ne'er fail.
Oh, may I, then, the means improve
To keep my heavenly father's love;
He sent me here a cross to bear,
And all His children's trials share;
Use every talent He has given
To lead my sisters on toward heaven.
Then I my Savior's face may see,
That Brother who has died for me;
And when He comes on earth to reign
I may be there to swell His strain,
To live that thousand years of peace,
When sin and sorrow find surcease,
Still tarry with those Saints who wait
His advent at the golden gate,
And find myself uplifted high
To share His immortality.


[Column 1]
VISIT TO SWEDEN.

	How well I remember two years ago to-day,
when I was on a visit to Sweden at my pater-
nal home, it was the last day I was to be at my
mother's, and my brothers and sisters were
there, and the sweet little children of my bro-
ther's. O, how many times I took them in my
arms and kissed them good-bye on that grand
day in my native land; it was a midsummer
day, when everything is so beautiful in that
country. The fields were all in blossom and
the songs of birds of various kinds made such
sweet melody in the early morning. It was
such an enjoyment to be among our friends
and partake with them of the good things pre-
pared to nourish and strengthen the body,
which they so hospitably extended for our
comfort. Oh, that warm-hearted people, rich
and poor giving bountifully as I visited them
from place to place talking about the Gospel;
how my heart did burn with love for them,
talking with them sometimes by the wayside,
or passing by the waters of the beautiful
streams of my dear native land, oh, how I felt
a deep desire that they might wish to be bap-
tized, may that seed of the Gospel which was
sown in their hearts, grow, and the time come
when they will be ready to embrace it. I [---]

[Column 2]
feel the love of a kind-hearted Father in heaven
for his children here upon earth.
	The people in Sweden are a very industrious
and hard-working people, but work for very
small wages—women and children as well as
men; we saw small boys about seven years old
and upwards with two heavy buckets to gather
the precious mineral out of the large copper
mines in the city of Falen, their little, tender
fingers among the rough ore.
	The children there are all taught to be po-
lite, rich and poor; when they meet any one
they lift their hats and bow. They have good
schools and the people are very sociable and
polite, and their mode of acting in the dining
hall would be very hard for a stranger to fol-
low and practice, it is very particular and
formal, at the same time it is a very lively and
sociable one.
	We had a pleasant trip over the canal road
between Stockholm and Goteborg, and then
over the North Sea in a steamer in company
with many intelligent Swedes, and arrived in
Liverpool on a Sunday morning and attended
church there and heard the sectarian priests
talking to the congregation about worshipping
a God without body, parts or passions, and
that same God without a body was able to
stretch out His almighty arm to help any in
need of help. In the afternoon we started for
London and arrived rather late in the evening
and stopped at the Temperance Hotel, opposite
the great Northern Hotel, there was a great
traffic carried on there, and the electric light
from the street was quite sufficient to light my
room; it was very beautiful, never in my life
have I seen such a sight. My husband had
friends in London that he made calls upon.
We went out to hunt up some of our relations.
We visited St. James' Park and many other
beautiful places in that great city. We went
to Pimlico and saw the large pork pie estab-
lishment owned by a cousin of my husband's,
the establishment where it is said there are
made 6,000 pounds of pies in a day, that are
sold in the pastry shops all over London. They
are called "Wathling's pork pies."
	We dined with the gentleman owner, Mr.
James Bird. He has a very fine establish-
ment; from there we went to the Clapham
Road Station to see some more of our rela-
tives, my sister and brother-in-law. He wel-
comed us with a box of delicious strawberries
in his hands; the meeting was good and the
greeting was loving. Such varied changes of
scenery: no tongue can tell, no pen can write
the charms of the beautiful scenery of the
British Isles. Wherever we went we were res-
pectfully received and found friends, and
whenever we had an opportunity to reason up-
on the principles of the Gospel, we did so.
Wherever we travelled we came in contact
with different nationalities, many of the lan-
guages I understood, though my husband
could only speak English, and whenever I
spoke to the people in their own language and
told them of the truth of the Gospel, it was to
their astonishment; and I am thankful to God
for the privilege I had to go back and present
myself before my friends and relatives in Swe-
den and other places, that they could see for
themselves that I had not been "food for the
fishes in the sea," as they had feared, as a
friend of mine had told the people the Luther-
an priest had said in my own neighborhood at
home. Thanks be to God that I am here again
in Utah.
	In Sweden, in the city of Falun, we visited
a large copper mine which yields some gold,
some silver, and some copper. We also visited
extensive iron mines and large foundries, where
the big hammer is preparing and moulding the
long bars of iron. My husband was very
pleased to see this kind of work, and said he
would not like to have missed it. On our way
[---] [---] we saw his [---] [---] [---] [---] [---] [---]

[Column 3]
There we saw all specimens of iron work, from
the smallest article to the largest manufactured
from iron. Wood work, glass work, copper
and china, all made in the vicinity of that
place. All kinds of horses, cattle and ani-
mals, etc.
	Gafle is a fine city, rebuilt; some of the
streets are as wide as here in Salt Lake. In
the evening of that day we left there and
went on the steamer from Gafle for Stockholm,
where we were kindly received by Brother
Benson, of Logan, Utah. He was the first
Latter-day Saint we had seen after we parted
with the missionaries in England. It was in
the beginning of July. We spent a few days
in Stockholm, in that grand old romantic city;
visited the beautiful scenery, hills and dales,
small steamers in water and little ones to cross
over to them, as well as large ships and little
sail boats, it all helps to make it lively and in-
teresting; and we visited on of the grandest
stores, where almost everything can be pur-
chased in jewelry, etc., rooms foreach varie-
ty; and we saw some English people buying or-
naments; it is a Jewish store, kept by Joseph
Lija. I must not leave out the Saints. We
stayed there over Sunday and had a very good
congregation, everything so clean and inviting
about the meeting house, and a very good spir-
it prevailed in the meeting. My husband was
called upon to speak and I interpreted for him;
again on Monday there was a meeting, and I
can truly say I enjoyed myself very much a-
mong the saints there, they are a true and
warm-hearted people; I say, God bless them.
	On the Fourth of July we left Stockholm
and started on the steamer for Gateborg. We
stayed there two days and three nights and
then left for England, sailing for Hull, in
company with Swedes and Finns. After
spending nearly two months in London we
left for America the first of September, 1882,
in company with the saints and some of the
returning missionaries, on the S. S. Wyoming.
	Our trip over the sea was not a very pleas-
ant one to me because of sea-sickness. We
were on the water going and coming quite as
muck as one month. My prayer is that God
who knows all things will bless our desires to
do good everywhere.		E. H. BIRD.


﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The music book prepared for the use of Sun-
day Schools contains some new pieces by home
authors and is well worth the price, 50 cts.

	"Madame Anna Bishop, the celebrated song-
stress and linguist, died of apoplexy at her
home in New York, on the 25th ult."

	"Recitations and Dialogues," is the title of
another little work which contains suitable
pieces for speaking in children's entertainments
etc., and helps to make a pleasing variety for
the exercises of the little people. Price, 25
cts.
	Mrs. Miriam G. Chase, President of the Re-
lief Society of the First Ward in this city, has
gone to the State of Vermont to visit rela-
tives there, and gather up genealogy.

	The Juvenile Instructor Office has lately
published several valuable works. "Orson
Pratt's Works," a book of 314 pages, is a very
useful one, containing authoritative testimony
presented by the late esteemed Apostle Orson
Pratt, whose writings have ever been full of
intelligence and light. Price, 75 cts.

	"Of the 26 women graduates from the Wo-
men's Medical College in Philadelphia, recent-
ly, Miss Emma Atkin one of our Utah born
girls, stood second on the list. She is a very
bright, attractive young lady, and will no
doubt become successful in her profession.


172	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.

	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	APRIL 15, 1884


[Column 1]
DESULTORY THOUGHTS.

	The General Conference just passed was na
eventful one to this people. One never to be
forgotten. The crowds of worshippers who as-
sembled day after day in the large Tabernacle
in this city to hear the words of inspiration that
seemed to flow on and on like a river from the
lips of the servants of God, were indeed a sight
to gaze upon. When the immense building was
filled, the yards were crowded with those who
failed to obtain a seat in time. There is not
room for all the saints inside the Tabernacle,
even, those who come together for the Confer-
ences.
	There was an excellent spirit among the peo-
ple, a spirit of humility and obedience, which
the Scripture says is better than sacrifice; and
yet the L. D. S have and do make sacrifices,
and the Lord has has said He will have a people
who have made a covenant by sacrifice. Surely
the covenant of celestial marriage, that the
saints practice, is a covenant by sacrifice—for
one must lay aside all pride and ambition of the
world when they take up this cross. They must
bear persecution, slander and misrepresentation,
must be everywhere evil spoken of. This is the
consequence of serving God and walking in the
light.
	Are the women of this Church slandered?
Grossly. Ladies come here and make a business
of misrepresenting "Mormon" women. Does
it hurt those pure-minded, large-hearted wom-
en? Not so much as it hurts those who are con-
stantly hunting after evil.
	The Savior Himself, whom we hold up as a
divine example, was slandered, persecuted and
at last crucified. These ladies may wound most
acutely the sensitive soul, but they have not the
power to hinder the influence of the Holy Spir-
it which is the comforter and the support to
these women who have laid their all upon the
altar of their faith, determined that come life
or come death, they will be found on the Lord's
side, enduring all things for principle's sake that
they may attain to eternal life in the celestial
kingdom of God.
	Therefore, let the world say what they may,
let the wicked pursue unrighteousness and those
who love and make a lie continue if they choose
to do evil; but the women of the Latter-day
Saints who live according to the command-
ments of God, have a higher and nobler purpose
in view. Their lives are so busy, they have
scarcely time to think of these slanderers or to
contradict their vile assertions. And indeed is it
worth the while, unless for the sake of those
honest souls who may be deceived by such mis-
representations. Truth is eternal and will stand
all the vile aspersions cast upon it, and those
abide in the new and everlasting covenant who

[Column 2]
revealed to this generation through Joseph
Smith, the Prophet of the living God, will even-
tually triumph over all their opposers.
	Mormon women have nothing to fear. What
is the praise of the world? Only a bubble, that
passes away and is seen no more. There is
something in the Gospel which so far surpasses
all the world can give, that trials and persecu-
tions and even actual suffering and privations
can be endured with patience and heroism when
one has the peace in their hearts, that the world
can neither give nor take away—the peace that
passeth understanding. This in part explains
why the women of the Latter-day Saints can
afford to let those who circulate malicious lies
and cruel slanders to injure them, to destroy
their good name and to blacken their character
before the world, alone; their own consciences
will be sufficient when they are made to realize
what they have done. As for the Mormon wo-
men, they know in whom they trust and are
not afraid and they have that tenderness in
their hearts towards those who do not know
the truth, that they make great sacrifices that
the Gospel may be preached to them; this is
why the young and inexperienced wife will part
with her husband to go upon a mission, the
daughter with a loving father—there is no
bound to the sacrifices made by Mormon wom-
en that the Gospel may be preached in all the
world. They are not themselves called to go
to the nations of the earth, but while husbands,
fathers and brothers proclaim the Gospel abroad
they perform the duties of home, and they have
no time to go seeking after the faults of their
Gentile acquaintances; and they would scorn to
question their servants to ascertain if the hus-
band and wife lived happily together.
	Home is a sacred place, and those who seek
to destroy the homes of the saints, and to cruel-
ly separate families will have to meet the pun-
ishment which our Father in heaven hath de-
creed, even such measure as ye mete shall be
measured to you again, pressed down and run-
ning over.


A HAPPY AFFAIR.

	By invitation of Mrs. Angeline Mc. Allister, a
few of the friends of President Mc.Allister and
his family met at the old homestead in the
Eighth Ward in this City, on Wednesday, April
2nd, the occasion being a happy one for Sister
Angeline, who has bought back the home,
which had for some time past been in the hands
of others. It was something of a reunion, a very
pleasant affair. There were present, the Bishop
of the ward and members of his family, also
Gen. Wells, H. Dinwoodey, I Brockbank, J.
Needham, and James G. Bleak, of St. George,
and several others, and a number of ladies.
	A bounteous repast had been prepared by Sis-
ter Angeline, which the guests thoroughly en-
joyed. and the delightful music, vocal and in-
strumental, rendered by President Mc.Allister
and his children was a most enjoyable feature
of the evening.


STEPHENS' CONCERT,

	Again we were delighted last evening by the
exhibition of home talent rendered to us in the
concert of Brother Evan Stephens: the singing of
the children and the faultless time they ob-
served were marvelous in such juvenile ama-
teurs, they did immense credit to their earnest
and indefatigable teacher, Brother Evan Steph-
ens; all did well, and all was good. Our sweet,
modest, earnest women, with their pure, clear
voices, must atrike chords in every heart and
brain, and make us proud to feel we are associa-


ted with them, for they have a language with-
out sound, aside from their vocal minstreley;
that tells of honor, of purity, and an earnest
love and appreciation of the beautiful. I heard
a gentleman, a stranger, who sat near me speak
repeatedly in praise of the performance—he said
he had heard all the fine operas in London, Par-
is and St. Petersburg, but there were one or two
pieces he had never heard performed better. He
especially alluded to the chorus, "Hail us ye
free," German," as his favorite: he was evidently
a man of immense knowledge in many things,
and a connoisseur in music; he rapturously ap-
plauded, and spoke in high praise of the war-
blers.
	Of course we were all charmed with Patti,
her manner won hearts as rapidly as her mag-
nificent voice, so innocent, winsome and guile-
less—but our loved ones at home called back
our wandering thoughts last night and our hearts
heard a whisper that re-echoed through its in-
most recesses, Our own! Our own! Our little
Prima is worthy of all commendation, for
though entirely self supporting, she is ever a
lady in mind and manner; and though at times
petted and applauded she still retains the sweet
simplicity of her character, with a quiet dignity
all her own; have we not a right to be proud of
our sweet songstreses of Zion, which delighted
last night all who heard them. It has some
times been suggested that her voice should re-
ceive higher cultivation and of course all would
assent to that if it could be acquired without
sacrificing too much for it. We love her as she
is. It is a delicate and sometimes a dangerous
point to attain eminence and retain equilibrium.
We should scarcely dare to expect this from the
young and inexperienced.
	Such entertainments as last night are most
edifying and satisfactory, and must be especi-
ally so to the parents of the children who ac-
quitted themselves so well. The manners and
the order preserved by them is worthy of all
praise; to such entertainments all hearts must
exclaim, Encore! Encore!
					HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City, April 8th, 1884.


TO THE RELIEF SOCIETIES OF THE
SWISS AND GERMAN MISSION.

AS PUBLISHED IN THE GERMAN STERN.

	Considering the vast distance between the
women of this land and their sisters in Zion, and
therefore the [-]mited means afforded of knowing
much concerning the Relief Societies of the
Latter-day Saint women, I have thought per-
haps it might please my sisters of this mission
who are engaged in this praiseworthy move-
ment to read a brief description of the work
performed by these societies and have also hoped
that thereby they might obtain a few instruc-
tive hints and beneficial suggestions.
	Women's share in the work of building up the
Kingdom of God has ever shown itself in a
marked manner, to much so that in the earliest
days of the church the Prophet Joseph deemed
it necessary to organize the women of Zion into
societies, for by thus working in union greater
good could be accomplished by them, while
they would also be better able to fulfil the duties
required of them.
	The first society was organized in Nauvoo on
the 17 h of March, 1842, and the Prophet's wife,
Emma, was made president. This society be-
gan its labors under the immediate instruction
and watch-care of the Prophet Joseph, and the
members wers blessed and set apart by him for
their missionary work. Great was their zeal,
and many are those, who to-day praise and love
them for the kind assistance, spiritual and tem-


[Column 1]
poral, and the motherly aid received at the
hands of these sweet women. The principal
work of the women in those days was to minis-
ter in the temples of Kirtland and Nauvoo, and
to watch with and comfort the sick and sorrow-
ing. Their hearts were in their labors and they
worked cheerfully and happily for the good of
all, carrying sunshine and gladness with them
wherever they went, whether in the happy
throng, in the sick chamber, or beside the sor-
rowing heart. Of those who were in the first
organization but few remain. Among those
still spared to na are our much esteemed sisters,
Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H. Young and Sarah
M. Kimball, who still labor most diligently in
the interests of the societies.
	While writing of the first organization men-
tion is due Sister Elizabeth Ann Whitney, who
two years ago was laid in the grave. She had
been a most diligent worker in the society, and
was so dearly loved for the motherly kindness
she had shown, and solacing words she had ut-
tered, that they named her Mother Whitney,
the Comforter. Her voice was so sweet and
soft, and in the temples she sang so beautifully,
that she was called "The sweet sonstress of Zi-
on." A halo of light ever seemed to hover near
her, and she reminded one more of othe angels of
[-]eaven than of any earthly being. In the tem-
ple she was blessed with the gift of ton gues,
and sang in a language said by the Prophet
Joseph to be the language spoken in the Garden
of Eden. This gift she held until her last mo-
ments on earth, and never appeared so beauti-
ful and strong as when she sang for her loved
friends in this heavenly, unknown tongues. For
some time after the migration to Utah the socie-
ty was in an unsettled state, some of the sisters
having remained in the east, others having died
while on the long, tedious journey across the
scorching desert, and those who had gathered to
Zion being scattered in different localities, be-
sides each had her own home to make and so
much to do, that though the sisters ever helped
each other, no work was done by an organized
society. However, when the people became
more prosperous and settled in their circum-
stances, President Brigham Young felt the ne-
cessity of again organizing the Relief Societies,
and called Sister Eliza R. Snow to preside over
all the organizations of women of the Church.
To her he gave instructions concerning the or-
ganization and method of working; and thus be-
gan the great system which to-day is so perfect
and praise worthy.
	Sister Eliza has always been closely identified
with all the workings of the women of Zion,
and has ever shown an untiring zeal in the in-
terests of her sex. Possessed of a strong char-
acter, great executive ability and a highly spir-
itual nature, she seems to have been born for
this position and admirably fulfilled as to call forth
the esteem and respect of every one; and now,
though the eightieth anniversary of her birth is
past, she still labors diligently and untiringly in
in her position. When she first received the
mission of the re-organization she and her co-la-
borers visited all the wards in Salt Lake City,
then the different settlements of Utah, where,
under the auspices of the several Bishops, socie-
ties were organized. Then meetings of these
societies were called, and under the auspices of
the presidents of stakes, stake organizations
were formed by the appointing of a president,
counselors and secretary to see to the welfare of
the ward societies of the several stakes. At
nearly all of the organizations Sister Eliza was
present, sometimes having travelled hundreds
of miles over a rough country for the express
purpose, and she always gave much valuable
instruction, explaining the necessity of the so-

[Column 2]
cieties and the methods to be used in conduct-
ing them as she had been advised and counselled
to do by President Young. The societies have
so rapidly grown and increased in numbers that
now there are few places in the world where a
sufficient number of the saints live, without one
of them. Everywhere they are found working
quietly and diligently spreading good in every
direction and causing their influence to be felt a-
mong the people.
	The duties of the societies have increased even
as the societies themselves have, and to-day
their work is boundless. The great assistance
they render is marvelous, and the good they do
far surpasses the expectations of the most san-
guine. It can scarcely be told, it over-reaches
all calculations. Sustained and upheld by the
thought that they were travelling in the path
of duty, the women of Utah have toiled on,
triumphing over all opposition and discourage-
ment, each day spreading their influences abroad
and holding out a helping hand to others. With
their faith and goodness their power and
strength have increased, till now, endowed with
the priceless graces, Faith, Hope and Charity,
they have attained a height of excellence, and
stand before the world a band of noble, fearless
woman.
	One glimpse of these societies and their work-
ings ought to cause the world to abandon forev-
er the idea that the women of Utah are down-
trodden and degraded, for where else in the
whole wide world can one find such a commu-
nity of working, benevolent women? From the
first they have nourished a feeling that all
their work should be labors of love, and with
this spirit and the systematic plans which they
possess one can easily imagine what great good
they can accomplish. The teachers of the so-
cieties make regular visits to all the people in
the wards, collecting the bounty bestowed by
the rich and well-to-do, and ascertaining the
circumstances and wants of the poor, bestowing
relief and good counsel as they go from place to
place. Every two weeks meetings are held to
hear the teachers' reports and attend to all busi-
ness connected therewith, also to enjoy the
sweet pleasure of conversing upon the princi-
ples of the Gospel and teaching and instructing
each other. At these times they are often so
blessed with the Spirit of the Lord that they
sing and speak in tongues and have the inter-
pretation of the same. This gift also helps to
render firmer their testimony, for they here see
a fulfillment of the prophecies. Once a month
sewing meetings are held, and for some few
hours the sisters ply the needle more industri-
ously, making up various kind of articles that
have been contributed for the benefit of the
poor. Many hundreds of dollars' worth of nee-
dlework has either been donated to the needy,
or disposed of and the means thus obtained used
for some charitable purpose. In this way the
sisters have been able to aid in the building of
temples and other public buildings, and often
assist a departing missionary; and still through
their economy and industry have kept a little
store on hand for a rainy day. They make it a
duty to watch with the sick and render every
attention possible to any who are afflicted a-
mong them. These love-laboring women are
always found in the houses of mourning, using
their best efforts towards comforting the sorrow-
ing and preparing the departed one for the
grave. Most all the burial clothes [--]d among
the saints are made at the sisters' meetings.
Temple clothes are also made by the Relief So-
ciety women, and kept for the use of the peo-
ple.
	At first the societies met at the house of some
member, but they increased so rapidly in num-
bers, and their store of goods also increasing, it

[Column 3]
was thought best for them to meet in the sever-
al ward meeting houses; but even then the sis-
ters had not the room for storing their goods,
and with their quiet industry and never failing
zeal they worked for the building of houses of
their own; and now many of the societies either
have a house to themselves or a room in the
ward building, built and furnished out of their
own means. Some of them also keep a store,
and the profits therefrom are placed in the
treasury of the society. Many of them have
built granaries; for unto the societies has been
given the mission of storing grain against a day
of famine, which President Young and others
have prophesied would come upon the earth;
and he himself called upon the sisters to organ-
ize this benevolent enterprise. A committee,
with Emmelne B. Wells as president, to su-
prerintend the saving and storing of grain was
appointed in November, 1876.
	So anxious had the societies become to learn
of each others movements, and so necessary was
it thought for the world to know more of the
Latter-day Saint women that a publication
called THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT was establish-
ed in Salt Lake City, in June, 1872, and a young
lady, Miss Lula Greene, selected to edit and con-
duct the same. This paper was started by sub-
scriptions and donations from the different so-
cieties and is published for the express purpose
of representing the work of the women of Zion.
The EXPONENT has for the last seven years been
edited by Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, the former
editor having withdrawn.
	The enterprise of publishing a woman's paper
has been most successful in every respect, but
not only are the societies represented there, but
through its columns the women of Utah glori-
ously defend their rights and speak for them-
selves in answer to the many false reports that
are made of them. It has also been the means
of encouraging literary talent among the wom-
en; and many who are now beautiful and ac-
complished writers received their first encour-
agement through the EXPONENT.
	Another praise worthy movement among the
women of Utah has been their great interest
and work in sericulture. They have labored in-
dustriously in this and have had considerable
success. through the industry is still in its infan-
cy.
	The most energetic worker in this has been
Sister Zina D. H. Young, who herself took
charge of a large mulberry orchard and the man-
agement of a cocoonery for sometime. The in-
dustry is now well established. One factory has
been built and is in working order, and some
very fine specimens of Utah silk have been pro-
duced. This has been a rather difficult under-
taking, for not only had all the machinery to be
imported, but competent weavers could not be
found in Utah, and it became necessary to emi-
grate some who understood the industry before
manufacturing could be done.
	Still another most creditable movement made
by the societies has been the assisting and en-
couraging young ladies in the study of medicine.
Many of the settlements are situated in isolated
places and medical attendance in the case of ac-
cident or sudden sickness had hitherto been im-
possible. Besides, a large majority of the phys-
icians among our people were not members of
the church, and it has ever been thought best
to encourage by our patronage our own people.
When the question of sending our young sisters
away to study medicine first arose, Sister Ro-
mania B. Pratt eagerly desired to number her-
self among the pioneer woman doctors of Utah,
and accordingly she went east, entered a medi-
cal college in Phi[-]a[-]elphia, where she studied
most assiduously, and quickly made herself pro-
ficient in the chosen science. After graduating
she returned to Utah and not only began to


practice her profession, but took classes of young 
women sent from the different settlements to
receive instruction in medicine and surgery,
most particularly in obstetrics. Many others
have followed Mrs. Pratt's example and are
now promising practitioners among the people.
Most of there have received assi tance from the
Relief Societies, and many young women under
Mrs. Pratt's tuition are enabled to prosecute
their studies through the aid they receive from 
them. These classes prepare themselves for the
higher branches of the academies, and thus with
this previous teaching are not compelled to stay
away from home so long. Since this first move-
ment rapid progress has been made by the
young women in this direction, and Utah to-day
has several lady physicians of marked ability,
besides many who have taken only the course
in obstetrics from Mrs. Pratt, and then after an
examination before the leading physicians of the
city returned to their several homes to minister
in their calling.
	As the different ladies graduated and began
practice among the people they saw more and
more the necessity of a hospital. This subject
was first agitated by Dr. Pratt short'y after her
return from the east, but not until 1882 did the
sisters feel able for so great an undertaking.
Recognizing, however, that it was need and
would become a great benefit to the people, the
societies consented to sustain it by monthly do-
nations, and many of the members of the sev-
eral societies became members of the Hospital
Association. Accordingly the institution was
established without captial, depending almost
entirely upon the diffferent societies for its supr
port. This has been quite an undertaking to
the Relief Societies and has made a heavy tax
upon their little treasuries, but as in all their
other efforts they have labored most faithfully
and willingly and now have great cause to feel
rewarded for their pains--for the Deseret Hos-
pital is in a prosperous and promising condition.
	Whole volumes could be written of the work
of the women of Zion, and then not the half be
told; but I will not presume to tell more, my
object being merely to relate something con-
cerning the organization and the principal work
accomplished by the Relief Society in its
branches and departments. There are numer-
ous works I have not mentioned at all, among
them the organization of Young Ladies' Societ-
ties and the Primaries; the beginning of the or-
ganization among the Indian women and the
travels of the leading ladies from one end of the
territory to another, and even to other lands for
the purpose of organizing and encouraging the
different societies, but my time will not allow
me to narrate so much. I hope you may be al-
lowed to gather to Zion and not only learn of
these things, but also assist in the great work
of the Mormon women. It has give me the
greatest pleasure to meet with the sisters of this
land, and has espeically delighted me to see you
organized into Relief Societies, for I am sure
you will derive much benefit from these organi-
zations.
	May you ever feel blessed and prospered in
your labors, and notwithstanding the adverse-
circumstances and persecution you have to con-
tend with, still stand firm and faithful in the
cause of truth, is the earnest desire of your sis-
ter in the Gospel. 			ANNIE W. CANNON.
	Pest Gasse 36, Bern, March 12, 1884.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 178


174	﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
﻿R S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

[---] GRAHAM CO., ARIZONA.

	This ladies of the Relief Societies of the St.
Joseph Stake held their Quarterly Conferences

[Column 2]
at Pima, Friday, Feb. 29th, 1884, President
Willmirth East presiding. After the usual
opening exercises the minutes of the previous
conference were read and accepted; also stake
and ward reports. The presidents of the vari-
ous branch societies gave verbal reports of
their respective wards, showing them to be in
a lively and prosperous condition; all desirous
of performing their part in assisting to build
up the Church of Christ here upon the earth.
	President East and Counselor Mary Ransom,
also President Christopher Layton and Patri-
arch Philemon Merrill, of the St. Joseph
stake, addressed the congregation. The sub-
jects treated upon were The Word of Wisdom,
home industry and the training of the youth
of Israel. President Layton said he felt
pleased with the proceedings of the conference;
asked the Lord to bless and prosper us in our
labors.
	Conference adjourned for three months, to
meet at St. David. Closing hymn, "The
Spirit of God like a fire is burning." Bene-
diction by Bro. Mc. Rae.
					LUCINDA GUSTAFSON.

KOOSHAREM.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking that perhaps yourself, along with
some of the readers of the EXPONENT, would
like to hear from this out-of-the-way place, I
will try to let you know a little about what we
are doing.
	The young ladies of this place held their
fourth annual meeting Feb. 12th, 1884, and
although it was a very cold day the meeting
wae very well attended. After the different
exercises from the Association, and some very
suitable remarks from our Bishop, J. H.
Wright, the officers were all unanimously sus-
tained, which is the fifth year, with very little
exception, that they have labored together, and
I find that those who have been on hand in
the discharge of their duties have made a
marked improvement, and I hope that all who
are engaged in the Association will realize the
great field of labor there is before them.
	The Relief Society in this place is also in a
very good condition, and our worthy President,
Sister Margaret Anderson, is doing all she can
to instruct us in her motherly way.
	The society made a surprise party for all
those who had arrived at the age of sixty years.
We all met at the school house on the 19th
of Feb., at eleven a.m., and partook of the
rich things of this world, and after dinner was
over the afternoon was partly spent in speeches,
songs, dialogues, and a piece of poetry compos-
ed for the occasion. There was a great deal of
Scandinavian language used on occount of a
great many of the old folks being Scandina-
vians. It was to all a very enjoyable time,
owing a great deal to the management of the
committee. The President took an active part
in the whole proceedings. The choir assisted
in making it interestieg.
	Our Sunday School and Primary Associa-
tion are in a good condition, owing a great
deal to the faithful leaders of these institutions.
On the 7th of March our Sunday School held
an exhibition for the benefit of the Sunday
School, which, according to the material we
have to work with here in the frontiers, came
off well.
	Wishing success to the EXPONENT, I remain,
			Your sister in the Gospel,
									U. C.

BEAR LAKE.

	Synopsis of the minutes of the 11th Semi-
Annual Conference of the Bear Lake Stake
held in Paris, Feb. 23rd and 24th, 1884, Sat-
urday, 10 a.m. Meeting called to order by
Prest. [-]. [-]. Lindsay, Singing, Prayer by

[Column 3]
Prest. Wm. Budge. Singing. Minutes read
and accepted.
	Prest. Lindsay was pleased to meet with the
sisters in the capacity of a Relief Society Con-
ference, although there were but few in num-
ber in consequence of the late stormy weather
and depth of snow. She did not doubt that
the Lord would bless us, as He says, "If a few
are met together in His name there He will be
also.',
	The Relief Societies were then represented
as follows:
	Paris 1st Ward—Prest. M. Innes; Paris 2nd
Ward—Prest. M. A. Shepherd; Ovid Ward—
Prest- M. Carleson; Liberty Ward—Prest M.
Morgan; Bennington Ward—Prest M. Van
Norman; Montpelier Ward—letter, Prest.
Hogensen being sick; Cottonwood Ward—
Prest. M. Dalrymple; Bloomington Ward—
Prest. S. Greenhalgh; St. Charles—Prest. L.
M. Rich; Georgetown, Soda Springs, Fish Ha-
ven, Garden City, Meadowville, Laketown,
Randolph, Woodruff and Saleratus Creek, not
reported.
	Prest. Lindsay stated that she had received
a letter from Meadowville stating that they
were not in working order. The settlement
was quite small and thought it was difficult to
carry on an Association there.
	Prest. N. M. Pugmire stated that the Young
Ladies would hold their Conference in the
afternoon at 2 p.m. Conference adjourned un-
til 10 a.m. next day. Singing. Dismissed by
Bp. Dalrymple.

	Sunday 10 a.m. Singing. Prayer. by
Prest. James H. Hart. Singing. The statisti-
cal and financial report was then read by the
Secretary.
	Prest. Lindsay had felt greatly blessed and
encouraged in traveling around visiting the
people. Alluded to the work of the Temple
and stated that all the money that had been
sent in for medical purposes without any pres-
ent prospect of using it for the purpose design-
ed, could be turned over to the Temple fund,
and wished the Presidents to send in all the
Temple donations they have now on hand, as
we wish to close up our Temple accounts. We
must have more medical aid as soon as we can
find sisters adapted to that study, and who are
prepared to go to the city for that purpose, and
it would be well to bear this in mind. Spoke
at some length upon storing grain and advised
the sisters to continue in the good work. Gave
many instructions to the presidents about the
way in which to transact the business of the
Associations, and the way in which to receive
members. It is not those who are best educa-
ted and can speak most of the things of God,
it is those who are pure in heart. Education
is a great help, but we must be humble and
prayerful to fulfill the offices we are appointed
to. Prest. Rich once said, "Sister Lindsay, if
I should place all the offices I could upon you,
unless you magnified them they would do you
more harm than good." This is saying a good
deal in a few words. Felt to ask the blessing
of God upon all the people.
	Counselor E. Collings felt to acknowledge
the hand of God in permitting her to attend
this meeting. We are here to do the will of
our Heavenly Father, not our own will, and
it seems that I have been spared a little longer
and I desire to spend the rest of my days in
this work.
	Prest. N. M. Pugmire stated that it was very
unexpectedly to her to be called upon this
morning, but hoped that she would always
be found ready and willing to do what was re-
quired of her. Was always glad to receive in-
structions from the elderly sisters who have
toiled hard to the very last. Felt to love them
and look to them with reverence. We have
[---] things in our [---] is [---]


and I think we will have a greater reward if
we fight the battle faithfully.
	Counselor A. M. Rich said she had been ac-
quainted with President Lindsay for a number
of years, was her Secretary once, and knew her
to be a zealous woman and that she rejoiced in
the Gospel and in all the privileges she enjoyed
in common with her sisters to do good. Let
us be honest, kind and true to each other, and
sustain the Priesthood of God in our midst, as
it is right, and also because it is through them
that we receive the administration and blessing
of the Gospel.
	Sister L. M. Hart felt to bear her testomony
to this work, and was glad of the privilege of
taking part in promoting it, and wished to en-
dure faithful to the end. She often wondered
whether she would be able to continue as faith-
ful as those of her sisters who had spoken. We
should try to be charitable and speak well of
each other and not say anything that will cause
bad feelings.
	Prest. Budge stated that he had been re-
quested to say a few words to the sisters by Sis-
ter Lindsay, and felt to respond to the call
cheerfully. Felt that the time was very short
for the sisters as the Young Ladies and Prim-
ary were all represented in the two days. We
are indebted to them for their co-operation in
this Stake of Zion. They have labored faith-
fully in instructing the people and the results
there from are very apparent. Preferred to
hear the sisters speak as their words were both
encouraging and instructive, indeed the only
thing to be regretted was their being too brief
generally.
	Prest. Hart felt to respond to the call from
Sister Lindsay with great pleasure. Realized
with Prest. Budge the importance of these or-
ganizations, and looked forward to the future
with satisfaction. We must be strong in the
Lord. We have had many good instructions
from the sisters and Prest. Budge, and we
should treasure them up in our minds. The
Lord has blessed us with the blessings of earth
and the blessings of heaven. It is necessary
that we become more perfect, that we may be
qualified to dwell with the holy ones. Our re-
ligion has taught us that we are not the grovel-
ing things of this earth, but we are really sons
and daughters of God who reigns over all men;
over all the worlds that are created. It is
clearly laid down in the law that Jesus shall
reign as King of Kings and Lord of Lords.
What a great work is devolving upon the Lat-
ter-day Saints. Were the deeds of the faith
of our sons and daughters recorded they would
supercede anything that has ever been read.
Admired the zeal, courage, faith, energy and
self-sacrificing spirit of the sisters. Desired
that the blessing of God would rest upon the
sisters and that success would continue to at-
tend their labors.
	Prest. Osmond expected that what he should
say would be more as a testimony to the work,
than to add to what had been said. There was
quite a distinction among the sisters as there is
among the brethren in taking an active part
in the work. Was struck with the remark of
Sister Pugmire in which she hoped that the
young ladies that she represented would prove
as faithful as those who had addressed them. I
have thought of them, when they would stand
by the brethren in the day of trial, and in faith
fill their part nobly and bring their children
up in the fear of God, when they may be de-
prived of the counsels of their fathers. Our
object, desires and aims are the same and we
are looking forward for the same blessings.
	Conference was then adjourned until the
second Saturday and Sunday in July, and an
intimation given that a two days meeting
would be held at Montpelier one week from
yesterday and to-day.
	Singing. Benediction by Prest. Wm Budge,


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 175


SANPETE PRIMARY ASSOCIATION.

DEAR EDITOR:
	On Dec. 6th, last, I commenced our second
annual visit to the Primaries of this, the San-
pete Stake, accompanied by Counselor Car-
oline Swalberg, and joined later by Counselors
Lucy Bergland and Marian Tennant.
	When we left Ephraim, we were speeded on
our way by the blessing and good wishes of
President Canute Peterson.
	With the three Associations lately organized,
i. e., Stirling, Gunnison Field and Dover, there
are now 19 Primary Associations in this Stake,
numbering 1,962 members. We found them,
with two exceptions, in a very healthy and pro-
gressive condition. There have been 16 Prim-
ary Fairs during the last two or three years in
this stake. We have had the pleasure of be-
ing present at four of them, and invited to
many which we have been unable to attend.
When we saw what these young and small Lat-
ter-day Saints could do in home industries, it
made us think, what could not we older ones
do if we exercised as much perseverance in
proportion to our strength and knowledge as
these little children do. When the day comes
that Babylon falls, and we are thrown upon
our own resources, then, if not before, will we
likely see the good of these Fairs, that are now
almost left for the little ones to monopolize.
The Primaries are taught to pay tithing, which
some of them are already practicing. I regret
that I am not posted as to how much the Prim-
aries of this stake have donated to the Manti
Temple, but it is considerable. They have also
gleaned and stored about 100 bushels of wheat.
So much for temporalities.
	As the children are taught and advance in
the knowledge of God and the plan of salva-
tion, we find them more inclined for pursuits of
a refining nature; and it fills our hearts with
gratitude to the kind Dispenser, to see the rare
spiritual gifts, which He has bestowed upon
the children of the Latter-day Saints in such
rich measure.
	Since Sister E. R. S. Smith's Primary books
have been in use the children's selections have
improved, till they are all that could be wished
for, while prior to that time, if not guarded a-
gainst, the selection of songs, recitations, etc.,
were not always as appropriate as they might
be, and the Primaries are very thankful to
Sister Eliza for her loving labors for them.
	We find some Primary Presidents who will
not allow any exercise in a meeting, and least
of all prayers, to go on until all the children
are attentive; they wait until order reigns, and
such meetings are orderly indeed; but orderly,
quiet, well disciplined Primaries are the pre-
vailing rule.
	Sister Helen Armstrong, Stake President of
Y. L. M. I. A., has established a rule within
her jurisdiction. which we have mutually con-
cluded upon, that the girls who apply for mem-
bership in the Y. L. M. I. A. must be thirteen
years of age, and although visitors are always
welcomed, must bring a recommend from the
President of the Primary. We are in hopes
that the Stake President of	*	*	will
favor us with a like rule. This, we have no
doubt, will meet with President Peterson's ap-
probation.
	We feel encouraged in the cause of Primary
Associations, and trust the interest for and in
behalf of the precious, tender plants, intrusted
to our care, may never waver, but that we may
give them the benefit of our experience, point-
ing out to them, by the help of the Lord, at
the beginning of their life's voyage, the shoals
upon which the wayward must stand, and guid-
ing them with tenderest love and care in the
way that leads them to God.
						HELENA MADSEN.


A WORD FROM MILL CREEK.

	February 25th a number of the sisters of
the Relief Society of Mill Creek met at the
residence of Sister Araminta North, it being
her 65th natal day. There were also a num-
ber of the brethren present. Almost the en-
tire company were there at the appointed hour,
which made it quite surprising to her, not hav-
ing the slightest idea of the proceedings. A
beautiful arm chair was presented to her by
the sisters and the following lines were com-
posed and read by one of the sisters: "We, the
sisters of the Relief Society of Mill Creek
ward, have come together with your family to
give you a surprise on your 65th birthday, ap-
preciating your labor and care as our treasur-
er, we present to you this chair as a small tok-
en of respect, and hope that you may live
many years to enjoy it.
	It is with great pleasure that we have met
here this afternoon to congratulate you on this
occasion; and when we reflect back we realize
that you have spent over forty years in this
Church, during which time, together with your
husband and family, you have shared with the
saints in much joy and persecution, left your
home, friends and relatives that were near and
dear to you, but by so doing you have not lost
all; you have here in this land many friends, a
comfortable and happy home, surrounded by
your children and numerous grandchildren;
you have been a member of the Relief Socie-
ty of the Mill Creek Ward ever since its first
organization, and have also been the treasurer
for over seven years. Always willing to help
and cherish the sick and needy, you have our
best wishes in the future. May you yet spend
many happy days and do all the good your
heart desires, be a comfort to your husband and
children, also the grandchildren that are always
ready to greet you on all occasions; also still
continue to aid us as a band of sisters in this
glorions work in which we all are engaged.
May health, peace and prosperity attend you
the remainder of your days, is the earnest de-
sire of your sisters of the Relief Society of this
ward."
	Acting Bishop A. Hill and counselor W.
Lemmon made some excellent remarks, also
Bros. John Morgan, H. Bowden and Levi
North spoke a short time. Sister Araminta
North returned her thanks to the sisters for
the handsome present and their good will to-
wards her.
	A bounteous supper was partaken of, which
added much to the comfort and pleasure of the
party. A good spirit prevailed and all enjoyed
themselves first rate.
	In conclusion, it was a day long to be re-
membered by all present.		A. J. N.


A higher, grander, nobler womanhood means
the regeneration of the race. So I thank
God for every wave of uplifting that takes
women to higher levels. And I am especially
thankful for the crusade which has forced wo-
men into the front rank of the temperance con-
flict.—Mary A. Livermore.


OBSEQUIES.

	The funeral services over the remains of Sister Mar-
garet Gardener, who departed this life on the morning
of March 20th, 1884, was held in the West Jordan Ward
House, on the 22nd inst, Counselor James Turner pres-
iding.
	Present on the stand, Prest. A. M. Cannon and Coun-
selor Joseph E. Taylor, of the Salt Lake Stake of Zion, Bish-
ops I. M. Stewart of Draperville, and Samuel Bennion of
Taylorsville Wards; also Bishop Gardener's Counselors,
Ward Teachers, quorum officers and others.
	The large assembly was called to order promptly at
nine o'clock. The choir sang, "Sister thou wast mild
and lovely." Opening prayer was offered by Bro. James


Glover. The choir sang the hymn, "The Resurrection
Day." After which Prest. Joseph E. Taylor delivered
an elaborate funeral discourse, beautifully dilating upon
the spirit world and the resurrection; also extoling the
virtues of the deceased.
	Prest. A. M. Cannon followed with excellent remarks:
speaking in the highest terms of Sister Margaret, and
giving such counsel to old and young as may long be
remembered.
	The Choir sang, "Nearer my God to Thee." Benedic-
tion by Bishop I. M. Stewart.
	After all present had taken a farewell look at our be-
loved sister, her mortal remains was followed by a long
train of carriages and vehicles, filled with relatives and
friends, to Bingham Junction, U. C. R. R., and placed
on board a special car, and taken to Salt Lake City,
where a hearse and carriages were in waiting.
	After the transfer was made another long line of
carriages, well filled, followed Sister Margaret to her
last resting place in the Salt Lake Cemetry. The dedi-
catory prayer was offered by Bro. Joseph J. Williams of
West Jordan.
	Sister Margaret was the eldest daughter of Bishop
Archibald Gardener and his wife, Margaret Livington
Gardener.
	She was born Oct. 6th, 1848, and was the second white
child born in these valleys. She suffered with consump-
tion for a number of months, which finally caused her
death.
	Sister Margaret has been a faithful member of he
Relief Society since 1875, and was a teacher in the same
since 1880.
	She became a member of the Y. L. M. I. A. when it
was first organized, and was secretary of this organiza-
tion for over three years prior to her death, and was al-
so a faithful teacher in the Sunday School.
	She died as she had lived, a faithful Latter-day Saint.

Dearest sister, though your pathway
	Has been strewn with many thorns,
You have nobly won the victory,
	To your rest you now have gone.
								LOUISA EGBERT.


176	﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Lillie May Murdock, daughter of John R. and Mary
E. Murdock, who departed this life Feb. 25th, 1884, was
born in Beaver City, Utah, July 9th, 1870.
	At a meeting of the Young Ladies’ Mutual Improve-
ment Association the following resolutions were adopt
ed:

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Whereas, By the decree of an alwise Providence, our
friend and associate, Lillie May Murdock, has been
called from our midst,
	Resolved, That in our sorrow for a faithful member,
we find consolation in the thought that it is well with
her for whom we mourn, though it is hard to part with
one before whom life was apparently all happiness.
	Resolved, That we condole with the bereaved parents,
relatives and friends, in this their great loss.
	Resolved, That these resolutions be spread upon the
records of the Association, and a copy be sent to the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.
								BELLE GILLIES,
										Secretary.

	DIED, at Hyde Park, Cache Co., March 7th, 1881, Or-
son Charles, Infant son ef Samuel and Permelia Matkin,
born Sep. 19th, 1883.

Our sweet little Orson has left us
	To dwell in a holier sphere;
With all our loved ones bereft us,
Oh, rest thee, darling, there!

Thou art free from earthly trials,
	From all sorrow, pain and sin;
Thy spirit pure is dwelling now
	Where no evil can enter in.

Sweet be thy rest, thou lovely child!
	But 'tis hard indeed to part
With the little gem of our household,
	With the darling of our heart.

Then rest thou darling baby,
	While grief our hearts doth fill,
For we know that God hath called thee
	And we bow to His holy will.

'Tis true the trial was severe
	That tore him from your breast,


But do not wish him back again,
	For he has gone to rest.

Father, mother, kindred, friends,
	May miss his lovely form;
A bright future lies before us
	At the resurrection morn.

In the glorious resurrection
	The faithful will come forth;
Then sweet will be our meeting,
	And we will know his worth.

Thou dost not weep to weep alone,
	For on all the sorrow seems to fall;
It is not felt by thee alone,
	He was beloved, beloved by all.
							ROSELLA A. NELSON.

	It becomes our painful duty to record the death of
our beloved and esteemed friend, Sister Emma Maddi-
son, who departed this life March 9th, 1884, of child
birth, wife of John F. Maddison, and daughter of Wm.
and Ann D[-]ll, born in London, Dec. 25th, 1851; aged
thirty-two years, two months and twelve days. She had
five sons and one daughter, but only two survive her.
	Sister Maddison led a life worthy of imitation, she
was a devoted wife, a kind and affectionate mother, and
a friend to all. Her smiling countenance and cheerful
words immediately won the love and respect of all who
had the pleasure of enjoying her society.
	She was Second Counselor to the Prest. of the Y. L.
M. I. A., and diligently performed her duties, her kind
advice and pious instructions always seeming to sink
into the hearts of those who came under the sound of
her voice.
	She leaves a husband, two small children, and numer-
ous relatives and friends to mourn her loss. May she
rest in peace-
					PARTHENIA LOWE, President,
					ELIZA SMITH, Secretary.
	Providence, Cache Co., Utah, March 20th, 1884.


SPENCER HOUSE.

	We are so often spoken to in reference to a
good house to stop at by strangers visiting our
city, as also by our people from the settlements;
that we take pleasure in recommending the
"Spencer House" as thoroughly respectable,
clean and pleasant. The table has long borne
the reputation of not being excelled; the
grounds are the largest of any hotel grounds in
the city, which, with its extensive lawns and
abundant shade trees, make it pre-eminently a
most inviting resort tor tourists—prices are
reasonable.
	This house is situated on Post Office Block,
1st East, between 2nd and 3rd South, Nos. 251
and 252.


[Column 1]
For Sale at this Office.

BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.

PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,		-	25c. per copy
Music Book for Primary Hymn Book,		40c.	''
Poems, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,				$1.00	''
		Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, -	1.50	"

DR. ELLIE R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
	Office and residence, Main Street, in the new Mor-
ris building, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence.

[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
☞ We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
and an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

[Image of store]

HENRY DINWOODEY.

FURNITURE,
WALL PAPER,
CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUINS
AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY.

F Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
☞ CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 12.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 1, 1884.	No. 2[-].


READY: A WATCHWORD.

	"Be ye also ready; for in such an hour as ye think
not, the Son of Man cometh."—Matthew xxiv, 44.

Ready! oh! are you ready
	if the Lord should come to-day?
Or do you rely on the sprinkled blood
	To take your guilt away?
Or are you still standing doubting,
	Lingering outside the door,
Which when once He comes will be closed to you,
	If you enter not before.

Ready! oh! are you ready?
	Sisters, this speaks to you,
For the Lord's own child, though safe, may be
	Ashamed to meet Him too.
Will He find you watching, praying,
	In the day when He comes again?
Or are you asleep while others weep
	For the sorrows and sins of men?

Ready! oh, are you ready?
	For soon He may be here;
Will He find you loyal and true to Him,
	Or shrinking and full of fear?
Will He find you enduring trials,
	As a faithful soldier must,
Content to tread where His prophets led,
	In a life of simple trust?

Ready! oh, are you ready
	If the Lord should call away,
No idol chaining you down to earth,
	But ready to go to-day?
For it may be that He is coming
	Before the evening fall;
But whether at noon or midnight,
	Be ready when He shall call.
							M. A. GREENHALGH.
Meadow, March 7th, 1884.


[Column 1]
WASHINGTON'S HOME.

	One beautiful day in August our small par-
ty of three set out about 10 o'clock a.m. to vis-
it Mt. Vernon. We stepped into a street car
which carried us to the river, and after much
pushing and asking many questions, we suc-
ceeded in boarding the steamer bound for that
point. For the first few minutes we were in a
state of excitement hearing some women say
that this was not the Mt. Vernon steamer, but
'twas not many minutes before the Capt. ap-
peared upon the scene, and he soon quieted our
fears. The boat was small and terribly crowd-
ed, and it seemed to me I had never seen so
many children since I left home. Our little
brown eyed third person seemed the nucleus
around which all the children congregated
with apples, sugar plums, bread and butter,
cakes, etc., for children never seem to feel an
excursion is an excursion unless they have
their hands and mouth full of something good
to eat. It was quite amusing to see these little
ones enjoying themselves by daring acts and
to hear the poor mothers exclaiming, "you will
lose your hat; there, I knew you would drop
your handkerchief; will you quit leaning over
the railing? I shall never try to take you
children any place again." Such were the
ejaculations of each fond mother, and never
once did the children settle down, and never
once did the mothers lower their voices.
	On the otherside of the boat the young peo-
ple had seated themselves, and with their com-
panions were enjoying themselves in a quiet
way, admiring the scenery and occasionally
glancing at the noisy children on the other
side. We enjoyed the whole affair immensely;

[Column 2]
the scenery along the Potomac was beautiful,
the breeze refreshing, and all this, with the
happy music of the children's voices, seemed
to fascinate me so that I felt rather disappoint-
ed when the boat made a sudden stop and the
Captain called for those who wished to stop at
the Grove. Then "there was hurrying to and
fro," the children cried, mothers scolded, some
told the captain they knew he would start be-
fore they got off; but at last they all stood on
the shore, their baskets half empty, and their
faces as smiling as a sunbeam.
	It was not many minutes before we pushed
off again; all the little ones had left us, and al-
though it seemed quite lonesome, yet I confess
we had a much better chance to see the sur-
rounding country, for our attention was so
unavoidably drawn to them while they re-
mained. While chatting about the scenery,
the life of Washington, whose home we were
about to visit, the time passed rapidly, and we
could hardly believe our ears when some one
says this is Mt. Vernon. The boat stopped,
and as every one else seemed to be getting off,
off we got, too. We had not walked many
steps from the landing, however, when we saw
a colored man who immediately, on seeing us,
sung out, "Dis way for de excursion wagon."
We paid our ten cts. and got into the carriage,
supposing it to be some distance to the tomb,
but in about two minutes our colored friend
sang out, "Dis is de tomb of de great Washing-
ton; those who wish to look around may alight
and walk the rest of the distance." So, not-
withstanding our dime we concluded that we
wanted a good look and so allowed him to
drive off without us. We seemed to be about
the only strangers, the others had come mere-
ly for a day's out and a rest from the bustle of
the city; so most of them remained in the car-
riage, and those who stopped only seemed to
give a passing glance and then walk off to some
other parts of the grounds, so that we had an
opportunity of gazing without being gazed up-
on, and our remarks did not have to be whis-
pered, but we gave full vent to our feelings.
	The tomb was of red brick, and built on the
side hill, and would have looked quite old and
dull had it not been for the beautiful vines
which covered it and the bright wild flowers
that spotted the grass, these lit up by the bright
summer sun, looked anything but gloomy.
There were no cultivated flowers, but wild ones
blossomed in abundance, as if they, sweet em-
blems of the dead, spoke of him and told us,
for the thought would come, that he needed no
marble tomb or costly monument, but that his
deeds were engraven on each true heart, the
place from which they sprung.
	From the door, which was made of iron
bars, we could see into the tomb, where all was
white and deathlike. From here we followed
the others to the old tomb, but there were just
a few old boards left there to mark the spot
where he had first been laid. As we felt anx-
ious to see the house and the many old relics
therein, we hurried towards that point. The
house stands just on the banks of the river,
and it would be difficult to imagine a more
lovely spot than Mt. Vernon, with the river
flowing smoothly in front, with its many boats
and steamers gliding softly by. The grove,
with its sequestered nooks and rustic seats, the
well kept grounds, with their choice shrubs
and trees, and the large conservatories with
their collection of plants, all combined to
make it just what the home of such a man

[Column 3]
should be. The house faced the river, though
both east and west sides are called fronts, very
long and of white color, the servants quarters
and offices are joined to it by long covered
walks, such as we call porches, is, of course,
decidedly old fashioned, and to me seemed
very grand, although some of the rooms up
stairs were quite small, but this, of course, was
an evidence of its age. The rooms are said to
be fitted up just as in his lifetime; the furniture
was elegant, yet so quaint and old that I could
imagine the forms of those long passed away
gliding softly through the rooms. There are
some few of the better furnished rooms where
visitors are not allowed to enter, these have
bars across the doors.
	An association was formed some years ago
called, The Ladies Mt. Vernon Association; it
was formed for the purpose of keeping the
house in good repair and leaving some one
there to attend to it and to show strangers
around. These ladies have recovered most of
the original furniture and have worked hard
to keep the house in its originial style, so that
it is almost, if not quite, as it was in Washing-
ton's life time. We could scarcely tear our-
selves away from the house, but finding it past
lunch time we went out, thinking we could pro-
cure some lunch there, but, alas, each little
group had their little basket; this looked sus-
picious, but we went to an old colored lady
who was in charge of the house, but could not
prevail upon her to sell us anything. It was
unfortunate for us the first day that lunch had
not been served there, and so we had to make
the best of it and enjoy our picnic as best we
could without any picnic at all. We wandered
about for some time and then went down to
the river side to wait for the steamer. While
waiting there we noticed that all the boats
stopped in front of the house and tolled their
bells; this seemed to me a very sad and sweet
remembrance.
	'Twas not long ere our boat arrived and we
were on our way back to the city; the air was
delightful in the cool of the evening, the music
furnished by two Italian harpists sounded very
sweet on the water. On arriving we took the
car again, which was crowded to the uttermost
part with a party of little children, I counted
thirty. They were all dressed alike in little
gingham dresses and white sun bonnets. They
looked very neat and pretty and never having
seen so many sweet little girls dressed all alike,
I enquired of a gentleman near me who they
were, "They are little orphans," said he, "and
that old gentleman at the other end of the car
takes care of them all, clothes, feeds and
teaches them for nothing except the love they
give. He has been taking them on an excur-
sion to-day, see how happy he looks." And
indeed he did look happy, and each of these
beautiful children would look up at him
and smile so sweetly. I asked if he was
wealthy, for he looked quite shabby.
"Oh, no! he has devoted his life and
means to the orphans." What a sweet
task, and yet how few are so generous
and good. Some of the gentlemen in the car
held two or three of the little girls in their
arms, and I saw not a few dimes slipped careless-
ly into the little dimpled hands, and many an
eye filled with tears as they saw the smile of
gratitude that beamed from those sweet child-
ish faces. Thus ended the day so gloriously
spent; one never, never to be forgotten.
									GIPSY.


178	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
FOR WHAT ARE WE CALLED IN
QUESTION?

	For that which we believe, or for that which
we do not believe? We believe what is writ-
ten in the old and new Testament; we fully be-
lieve in all the words spoken by the Savior,
and the testimony of His Apostles. We be-
lieve in the fulness of the everlasting Gospel;
a crucified and risen Redeemer, and in all the
gifts and graces of the Gospel, and in the ful-
filling of prophecy; that not one jot nor tittle
shall fall short of its fulfilment. "Though the
heavens and earth shall pass away, not one
word shall fail which I have spoken," saith the
Lord.
	Then it stands us in hand to read and find
out what has been fulfilled and what has not
been fulfilled. Has the Gospel been preached
to every nation, kindred, tongue and people,
as spoken by John the Revelator, 14th chapter
and 6th verse? Now let us read St. John, 18th
chapter, 36th verse, last clause, "But now is
my kingdom not from hence." In another
place He told the Jews that they should see
Him no more from henceforth, until they
should say, "blessed is He that cometh in the
name of the Lord." In another place it speaks
of "the kingdom suffering violence, and the
violent take it by force," so that Christ could
not establish His Kingdom on the earth at
that time, for all holding the priesthood, the
authority wherein all right was invested, to
continue or establish a kingdom were taken
from the earth.
	And when He administered the wine He
told the disciples, 18th verse, 22nd chapter of
St. John, "For I say unto you, I will not drink
of the fruit of the vine until the Kingdom of
God shall come." So we see by this language
that the Kingdom of God was not continued.
St. Matthew, 24th chapter, 14th verse, "And
this Gospel of the kingdom shall be preached
in all the world for a witness unto all nations;
and then shall the end come." Meaning that
Gospel of the kingdom unchanged.
	St. Paul says, Epistle to Galatians, 1st
chapter, 8th verse, "But though we, or an an-
gel from heaven, preach any other Gos-
pel unto you let him be accursed." Also,
John's second Epistle, verses 9, 10, 11, speak-
ing or writing to the elect lady to receive no
other doctrine than that which had been
taught.
	"Whosoever transgresseth and abideth not
in the doctrine of Christ, hath not God. He
that abideth in the doctrine of Christ hath
both the Father and the Son."
	We may examine the doctrine of Christ as
it was taught by our Savior. He set the ex-
ample by being baptized by John in Jordan;
after this the Holy Ghost rested upon Him.
He then commanded His disciples to baptize,
and this after His resurrection from the
grave.
	St Mark, 14th chapter, 15th verse, "And He
said unto them, go ye unto all the world and
preach the Gospel to every creature. He that
believeth and is baptized shall be saved, and
he that believeth not shall be damned," etc.
	The 20th verse says, "And they went forth
and preached everywhere, the Lord working
with them, and confirming the word with signs
following." Amen.
	Now, the Sectarian's belief is that the signs
are all done away with, and no longer needed.
And they persecute the Latter-day Saints be-
cause we believe they are essential to our sal-
vation, and necesary to make the Church of
Christ perfect, and we can give the proof by
reading 1st Cor., 12th chapter, all the chapter;
the 27th verse reads, "Now, ye are the body of
Christ, and members in particular," "That
there should be no schism in the body." God
set in the Church apostles, prophets, teachers,
miracles, gifts of healing, helps, governments

[Column 2]
and diversities of tongues. Eph., 4th chapter,
12th verse, we read, for the perfecting of the
Saints, for the work of the ministry, for the ed-
ifying of the body of Christ.
	May I ask how long? Until they were no
longer needed; I cannot conceive of that time.
When God has a kingdom on the earth, and
His Gospel preached by His subjects, for it
reads, in the 13th verse, "Till we all come in
the unity of faith, and of the knowledge of
the Son of God unto a perfect man; unto the
measure of the stature of the fulness of Christ."
14th verse, "That we henceforth be no more
children tossed to and fro, and carried about
with every wind of doctrine, by the sleight of
men and cunning craftiness, whereby they lie
in wait to deceive;"
	The 5th chapter, 20th verse, "That He might
sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of
water by the word."
	The 27th verse, "That He might present it
to himself a glorious church, not having spot
or wrinkle, or any such thing, but that it
should be holy and without blemish."
	Now, we believe that this same kingdom will
be set up again upon the earth according to
the vision of Daniel, 17th chapter, 27th verse,
"And the kingdom and dominion and the
greatness of the kingdom under the whole
heavens shall be given to the people of the
saints of the Most High, whose kingdom is an
everlasting kingdom, and all dominions
shall serve and obey Him."
	We know that in former days a great many
prophecies have been literally fulfilled. The
scattering of the Jews; but in the last days
God would remember them in great mercy,
and they would gather back again upon their
own lands and build up Jerusalem, for they are
of the true olive tree, and God's ancient coven-
ant people. The Gentiles were grafted into the
tame olive tree, but inasmuch as they trans-
gresseth and abideth not in the doctrine of
Christ, and will not receive it in its truth and
purity, they will not be spared, but be cut off,
and the house of Israel will come up in remem-
brance before the Lord, and the last shall be
first the same as was last. The little stone is now
cut out of the mountain without hands, and
will roll forth until it fills the whole earth, and
will break in pieces all other kingdoms. And
the God of heaven would set up His Kingdom
and it should not be destroyed nor given to an-
other people. We know the kingdom which
Christ and His disciples desired to establish
was destroyed; a great apostacy and falling
away took place. Whereas, the Jews sought
not the law by faith, which was a law of car-
nal commandments; but by works it became to
them a stumblingstone; the Savior fulfilled this
law and offered to them a higher law, which
they did not receive, but rejected as a nation.
Then Paul said, "Lo, I turn to the Gentiles
and they received it gladly." But this little
stone of which I have spoken, which is the
word of God, is now a stumbling stone to the
Gentiles, and if the Lord spared not the natur-
al branches because of unbelief, how much
less will He spare the wild ones in unbelief.
The 3rd chapter, 20th verse Acts, says, "And
He shall send Jesus Christ which before was
preached unto you."
	The 20th verse says, "Whom the heavens
must receive until the time of the restitution
of all things, which God hath spoken by the
mouth of all His holy prophets since the world
began." But as it was in the days of Noah,
so shall it be at His second coming. His gos-
pel must be declared unto all that will receive
it, to prepare the way for His coming, to build
temples and to send forth messengers to say,
"Come unto me all ye ends of the earth and
receive my Gospel and be saved in my King-
dom." And they who will turn away from
their sins and come in at the door, and not try

[Column 3]
to climb up any other way, will receive a
knowledge for themselves.
	The women of this Church are called igno-
rant, and it is said of us, we are dragged into
measures by a crafty and cunning priesthood.
This is an untrue assertion. We have the
same privilege to investigate and seek knowl-
edge for ourselves as the men of this Church
have, and full as much time to do so. We re-
ceive the gifts and blessings of the Spirit which
confirm us in the gospel which they teach,
and if it did not agree with Scripture we have
sense enough to detect an error and disown it.
This is our right and privilege. But the more
Scripture we read, and the more we investigate,
the stronger is our faith, and the more thor-
oughly are we convinced of the truth; and if
we would be called Abraham's children we
must do the works he did. We believe and
accept the truth wherever it is to be found, and
our opponents must not condemn us because
we cannot believe the opinions of men. We
want the law and the testimony of the Scrip-
tures, and if they speak not according to this
it is because there is no light in them. We
have been thoroughly conversant with the di-
vided opinions and schemes of Christendom,
which pointed out diverse ways, but not to the
straight and narrow way that but few find.
Wide is the gate and broad is the way that
many go in. Our Savior said enter in at the
door, and He has shown us plainly the door in
which to enter and receive salvation. Shall we
obey His voice, or the voice of a stranger? No,
the sheep knoweth not the voice of a stranger.
These are our views of the reading of the
Scriptures.
	Our friends abroad want us to forsake the
one Lord, one faith, one baptism and His word,
for their views, which they divide and subdi-
vide, firstly, secondly and thirdly, all nicely
written down on paper and put between the
leaves of the Bible, and when it is read to the
people on Sunday it sounds no more like Bible
doctrine than a wolf looks like a sheep. Do
they think for one moment we could retrograde
and throw away truth for fables to please their
notion of things? Why don't they advise the
reformers to turn back to their standard, the
older churches which they came out from, be-
cause of their inconsistences? But we came
not out from any of them. The priesthood
was revealed to Joseph Smith in its primitive
form and purity. It is far in advance of all
sectarian dogmas, it is the true and everlasting
Goepel, wherein no change has taken place,
and this gospel of the kingdom will prevail
over all error and superstition, and if our op-
ponents can dethrone Jehovah, bring to nought
His work, and overthrow His Kingdom that
He has set up for the last time, if they can
fight Him they may then bring into subjection
to their will the Latter-day Saints and scatter
us to the four winds.
				MARY ANN M. PRATT.
	P. S. Thank you, lady lawyer, the time you
over-run was well occupied, and spent in a good
cause. A great pity you was begrugded those
few minutes to speak in defence of right. I
guess they were a little nettled at the truth you
spoke. Those men have had the floor so long,
and had it all their own way, they don't like a
woman to express her views on the situation.
	We Latter-day Saint women will accord to
you all the time you require to speak on so im-
portant a subject as human rights. And you
shall have our prayers, and they shall avail
you much. Women of the land, you have as
much right to uphold and sustain all classes in
their rights of freedom and the pursuit of
happiness as the sterner sex; and true religion
must and will encircle all.


Peace if possible, justice at any rate.—Wen-
dall Phillips.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 179


AFFECTION.

God bless Sister Horne;
	I love to hear her voice;
I love to hear her warn
	The people of God's choice.

Her words are most discreet,
	Her actions correspond;
She fain would guard our feet
	From weaknees and from wrong.

Oft have I sat and listened,
	Yea, many years ago,
And wondered how such wisdom
	From woman's lips could flow.

Her words unlike "weak woman,"
	But like God's servant brave:
Called forth to preach the Gospel,
	Such words of life she gave.

She has served her God in youth,
	And honored Him in age;
Has stood by right and ruth,
	Yet humble, meek and safe.

God bless all her associates,
	I love them everyone;
They are as noble women
	As heaven ere smiled upon.

There are none in ancient story
	Excelling them in deeds;
They give to God the glory,
	And help the orphan's needs.

God bless His worthy handmaids,
	Yea, bless each hoary head:
I love to hear their counsels,
	I love the truths they spread.
								M. L. M.


MORMON MISSIONARY LIFE.

The Elders when called to go forth to preach
	Have trials to meet every day.
The Gospel of Jesus we're willing to teach
	To all that will hear what we say.

We meet many people, while far from our homes,
	Who care not for "Mormons" at all;
Like Talmage they say, "We should pick up our guns,
	And feed them some powder and ball."

Such cases are rare, yet they can be found
	In great Christian nations to-day.
When met by such people in traveling around,
	We Elders just go on our way.

Some people are anxious to hear Mormons preach
	Their doctrine so strange to the world;
They say, "Let us hear this new Gospel you teach,
	There's many a slur at you hurled."

The Elders then set forth the Gospel of Christ,
	As taught by both Peter and Paul,
These truths are for all those who wish to do right;
	The Gospel is free for us all.

We find many people who to us are kind,
	Though they are not seeking for truth.
There's many false notions imbibed in their minds,
	Which they have been taught from their youth.

Sometimes we find those who are seeking for truth,
	They are praying to God night and day.
In order that they may their talents improve,
	They strive God's command to obey.

When shown the right way by the servants of God
	To serve Him and keep His commands,
The honest will turn from the paths they have trod;
	They long on "Mount Zion" to stand.

The shepherds are gathering the sheep to the fold,
	Where they may be taught in God's way.
We gain an experience worth millions of gold,
	May God give us strength as our day.

O Father in Heaven, be kind to us all,
	May we this great mission fufil,
Be faithful and true till thou shalt recall
	They servants to "Mount Zion's Hill."
								CHARLES A. WELCH.


WHAT A GENTILE WOMAN THINKS.

	Well, this is election day, and I am out of
temper; there is so much to stir up all the sar-
casm, contempt and anger in one's nature. The
elections are for township and corporation offic-
ials. We have in near vicinity a settlement
of colored folks who really, by their numbers,
carry the election.	*	*	*	*
	There! there goes an old colored man who
has been in the workhouse all winter and is not
much more than half-witted, yet he is being
taken over to the polls to cast his vote.	*	*
Last year the Democrats played a joke on
this old negro; he happened to go to their Pri-
mary, through mistake, and they told him it
obligated him to vote the democratic ticket,
So, on election day the old man hid and did
not venture out all day for fear he would have
to vote the democratic ticket. Such intelli-
gence is required to be a voter! Woman nev-
er can understan politics.
	Here goes a wagon with five colored men,
two Germans who are never sober, and the bal-
ance Americans. They are all men, at least,
wear men's apparel; thank goodness, they are
not women, so they must be men, therefore,
capable of having a say in the making of laws
for our corporation. Do I wish to vote? No,
and yes. Do I think it will improve matters
to allow women to vote? I am not sure, for
there are so many bad and so many noodle-pa-
ted women who would go to the polls for no
higher purpose than to "create a sensation;"
and their vote would count as much as the one
cast by a thoughtful, intelligent mother, who
prayerfully watches the body politic as she
watches the physical, moral and mental devel-
opment of her own loved children. Centuries
ago the question was asked, "What must I do
to be saved?" Bob lngersoll has made a bur-
lesque of the question, and people smile, for-
getting the jailer who fell down at the feet of
Paul and Silas, and think of the eloquent in-
fidel orator. But others, aged parents, wives,
sisters and sweethearts, many thousands are cry-
ing in their hearts as they see their loved ones
going to destruction, swift unto ruin, and see
the laws of the land made by saloon keepers,
profligates, drunkards and their dupes to suit
themselves, they say, "What must we do to be
Saved?"
	In the early days of the Colonies, when
men's lives were threatened at all times by the
Indian foe and they found their ideas of war-
fare must change; that they could not choose
a leader by his orthodox belief in infant bap-
tism, that although they wer equipped
"corselets, muskets, bardaliers and portable
rests from which to shoot, and swords," the In-
dians got the better of them, killed them while
they were getting ready to shoot. They did
change their ideas and laid aside the old rules
of warfare.
	When the Constitution of the United States
was framed, the inhabitants of the country and
everything that pertains to the country were
very different from the present. Again it is
time for ideas to change; evils of various
kinds, as sly and devilish as the wily Indian,
creep upon the honest law maker and cut him
off. Every man, woman and child who desires
to save the country from destruction, who have
the good of the community at heart, must be on
the alert. Women in old times snatched up
the guns of their dead husbands and killed the
foe, they bore all hardships and dangers by his
side and were an equal and helpmeet. Women
did not vote then? No; nor do women need to
shoot Indians now; but she needs to stand side
by side with her husband, and have the right
to defend herself and her children against the
foes which beset them on every side.
							EMILY SCOTT.
	Ohio.


WHERE ARE WE DRIFTING TO.

	I never go from home to the larger towns of
our Territory but the prevailing extravagance
in dress strikes me painfully. Do I not like to
see people neatly and tastefully dressed? Yes;
but neatness does not call for extravagance. I
have seen ladies (for true ladies they were)
look better in a neatly made calico, or lindsey
dress, than many others in a profusion of silk
and satin. But, says one, we must keep up
the style of our "set" or give up our claim on
refined society. Indeed how long will your
"set" cultivate your acquaintance or acknowl-
edge your claim on refined society after it be-
comes known that you cannot meet your obli-
gations? Or which of your acquaintances
would undertake to support you in your old
age because you have spent all your earnings
to keep up the style of your set? Folly and
vanity!
	Before the desire of appearing other than
we are took hold of this people, each family
lived, not as their friends did, but as their in-
come allowed, having also a care to save some-
thing for a rainy day. But to-day we buy a
fine bonnet, not because I really need it, but
because my neighbor has a new bonnet, and I
won't be outdone by her. Then the new bon-
net calls for a new wrap, dress, shoes, etc, and,
by the bye, nice apparel looks out of sorts with
faded carpets and shabby curtains—well, I
need not portray any more of it, you know
that before half these renovations are made
debts are incurred which need not have been.
That is not all. This pride is also a thief of
time; to keep up with style things of a greater
importance are left undone, fashionable calls
take up the time we used to spend in comforta-
ble chats with the children; altogether, we are
not as happy as in the days of our simplicity.
I do not mean to say that the laboring classes,
farmers included, should not have any taste
for dress, or enjoy the means they earn by hard
work; oh, no! It is because there is no real or
permanent happiness, but sure ruin, in the vain
endeavor to ape the rich, that I would warn
them. I can understand readily how young
couples, starting out in life, can make financial
mistakes, as they are just learning their first
lesson in practical arithmetic. Poverty is no
disgrace when it is not brought about by indo-
lence and extravagance. Mary, the mother of
Jesus, was the wife of a carpenter, and I do
not think she dressed beyond her station in
life on account of her relationship to the Sav-
ior. No, He was not of the world! Then why
should we be?
	If the world takes (or mistakes) the display
of riches for the badge of refinement, let us in
Utah "tack about ship" and make talent and
intrinsic moral worth the badge of our refined
society, if any distinction we must have. Un-
less we teach our youth to steer clear of false
pride, they will drift to social ruin. Shall we,
with the light we have, pattern after the world?
Heaven forbid! Let us arise and shake this
vanity from our midst before its shackles bind
us fast and make us a derision to the world to
whom we should be as the salt of the earth,
and as a light on a hill top.
						E. C. E. FRANCIS.
	Morgan April 5th, 1884.


﻿Prayer is the outlet of the saints' sorrows
and the inlet of their support.

	An honest man is believed without an oath,
for his reputation swears for him.

	Ah! if you knew what peace there is in an
accepted sorrow.—Madame Guyon

	I have learned more of experimental religion
since my little boy died than in all my life be-
fore.—Bushnell.


180	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday,
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	MAY 1, 1884.


[Column 1]
A FEW FACTS.

	There have been of late some very strong tes-
timonies published in our columns concerning
plural marriage, both as to belief and practice.
This seems to be timely, in view of the state-
ments made by those who visit our Territory
from time to time. As polygamy, so called, has
become a national question, one would think
whatever testimony has been given to men and
women should be recorded to substantiate the
position of the Latter-day Saints. The idea that
none but the ignorant can accept such doctrine,
ought, by this time, to be abandoned; for is it
not now pretty generally known that the man-
agement of the affairs of this new and prosper-
ous country have proven that there has been,
and is, ability of a very marked and decided
character among this people?
	But, says one, "The Mormon men are shrewd
and cunning, able and efficient, but the women
are ignorant, low and degraded, or they would
never submit to become plural wives; no intelli-
gent woman would consent to such a state of af-
fairs in a free country." Now, all this proves
plainly that they do not comprehend the sub-
ject, or the motives that actuate the class of
women they are so positive in denouncing. Ig-
norant women could not understand the theory
or practice of plural marriage. It involves so
much; it is upon so lofty a plane that it takes a
high order of intelligence and fine spirituality
to accept it as religious doctrine, and to make
the sacrifice necessary to enter into such a sa-
cred order, and observe all the regulations that
pertain to this new and everlasting covenant. It
is not a light matter, nor one which can be trifled
with. It is something that requires the exercise
of all the highest attributes with which God has
endowed the human soul, and constant prayer
is necessary that the Spirit of God my dwell in
the heart—and the fruits of that Spirit are long-
suffering, forbearence, patience, charity, humil-
ity, love and faith, and that which reaches be-
yond this life and makes all things easy because
of that which is to come.
	When one attempts to reason about this prac-
tice of a plurality of wives, he may find abun-
dant physiological testimony, but Mormon
women have not accepted, nor do they accept it
on any such grounds, neither would they marry
thus with only such evidence to maintain their
position; nor could they endure the trials and
persecutions incident to such an innovation upon
the customs and prejudices of the present day
without having a knowledge that the course
they were pursuing was pleasing in the sight of
God, and relying upon His strength, which lifts
them into a higher atmosphere, and makes the
path clearer to that exaltation they are striving
to attain.

[Column 2]
	It Is because these women feel so sensibly the
noble aspirations which have prompted them
and the sincerity of their motives, knowing the
sacredness of the obligationo they have accepted,
that makes them so righteously indignant when
people contrast plural marriage with the wicked
practices so common in the civilized world. They
are as far removed from each other as the hea-
vens are above the earth. One tends to purity
of character and thought, to the promotion, pre-
servation and prolongation of human life, and
aids in the development of the better nature,
the spiritual, which always refines, cultivates
and educates the soul. The other course sows
the seeds of corruption, disease and death, tends
to the destruction of purity in human character,
and develops the baser passions, that are ever
fatal to the growth of the spiritual nature.
	It does not follow that one is always under the
divine influence because he is trying to serve
God, for men and women are only human after
all, and in their weakness often come short of
that which they desire to reach; but the Lord
helps those who put their trust in Him and try
to obey His laws; and when one draws near Him
He has promised He will not leave them to
themselves.
	Volumes might be written upon this subject
and then the half would not be told; but the
writer has been so often misunderstood in giving
her views and experience of this principle and
order of marriage, that a few facts presented in
her own way may throw some little light upon
the subject, and cause some of the thoughtless
to reflect upon a principle that is of such vast
importance to the human family, and which
would, if properly carried out, lift men and
women into a higher range of mental and spirit-
ual development, and strengthen and intensify
the chords of love and union that bind humanity
together and will ultimately lead them into the
presence of the Father and mother in heaven.


A WORD FROM BUNKERVILLE.

EEITOR EXPONENT:
	I should miss the Exponent very much were
I to get behind, and I feel to appreciate your la-
bors in behalf of the women. We live so far out
of the way we would know but little that is go-
ing on were it not for the papers. Still we enjoy
our quiet work, little or no outside influence, no
drunkeness or rowdyism, but plenty of work to
keep us out of mischief; more than usual on
dams and ditches this spring, owing to con-
tinued high water. The crops are looking well.
Small vegetables, such as raddishes, lettuce and
asparagus grace most of the tables now.
	Our Relief Society and Primary are in a good
condition. Our Young Ladies' meetings have
been discontinued for some time, due, partly, to
sickness and other causes. With best wishes
for the EXPONENT and kind regards to the Edi-
tor,				I am, yours truly,
					HANNAH A. CROSBY.
	April 23rd, 1884.


DESERET HOSPITAL.

SALT LAKE CITY, April 5th, 1884.

To the Honorable, the Executive Board of the
	Deseret Hospital:

LADIES:
	Anticipating, that during this present season,
other responsible duties will necessarily demand
much of my time and absence from the city, I
deem it wisdom, and do herein tender my resig-


nation as President of the Deseret Hospital As-
sociation.
		Yours, respectfully and lovingly,
					E. R. SNOW SMITH.

	At a meeting of the Executive Board of the
Deseret Hospital, Saturday, April 12th, the
President's resignation was accepted and the
following was adopted:
	Inasmuch as our dearly beloved Sister E. R.
Snow Smith has deemed it expedient on account
of her multiplicity of cares, to tender her resig-
nation as President, to the Executive Board of
the Deseret Hospital, therefore,
	Resolved, That we hereby express our deepest
regrets that she has thought it necessary to re-
sign her position, and that we, her associates,
express our sincere and heartfelt gratitude for
the able and efficient manner in which she has
presided at the meetings and conducted the af-
fairs of this organization, and that we most truly
realize the loss of her wise and motherly coun-
sel in the transaction of official business, and we
take great pleasure in acknowledgidg our appre-
ciation of her faithful and diligent labors for the
establishment and prosperity of that benevolent
institution.

M. ISABELLA HORNE, Ch. Ex. Com.
	PHEBE WOODRUFF,
	MARINDA N. HYDE,
	BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
	JANE S. RICHARDS,
	ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D,
	ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.,
	ELIZABETH HOWERD.
			EMMELINE B. WELLS,
						Secretary.

Salt Lake City, April 12th, 1884.


﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.

	ON Wednesday, April 16th, we had the pleas-
ure of attending the annual meeting of the Prim
ary Association in the Twelfth ward in this city,
of which Sister Ellen C. Clawson is President.
The Association has improved very much during
the past year, and it is very gratifying to see
how anxious these little people are to learn to be
good and useful. There were over fifty children
present, nearly all of them quite small. The
programme was not too long, and the songs and
recitations were given in a pleasing manner.
Sister Margaret P. Young, Aurelia S. Rogers,
Lydia Ann Wells and Bishop H. B. Clawson
were present, and each said a few words of en-
couragement to the children; also Sister Midgley
and the writer
	ON Friday, April 18th, in company with Sis-
ter E. R. Snow Smith, we went to Farmington
to attend the Relief Society Conference of Davis
Stake, held in the meeting house, Sister Mary
Clark presiding. Bishop Cheeney of Center-
ville, and Bishop Secrist of Farmington, were
present. Several of the wards in the Stake were
represented by the respective presidents, and a
general good feeling prevailed.
	Sister Eliza spoke with great power and ear-
nestness, and her voice seemed strong and filled
the large building, although she is eighty years
of age. She exhorted the parents to train and
educate their children in the principles of the
Gospel, and to be sure and send them to the
Primary Association, that they may get the
spirit of the work while they are very young.
	SATURDAY, April 19th, went to East Bounti-
ful to attend the annual meeting of the Primary
Association of that place. There were about
130 children, and the large meeting house was
tolerably well filled with the sisters. Mrs. Ann
Dustin is a very efficient President, and teaches
the little ones to observe good order.


[Column 1]
	The selections were varied, and all in good
taste. Some essays read by Miss B Dustin, the
children's composition, were very creditable in-
deed, and the choice of subjects showed what
the little ones were being instructed in. There
were songs, recitations and a dialogue; also an
organ solo, and it was a pleasant afternoon enter-
tainment.
	Sisters Aurelia S. Rogers and Lucy Clark of
Farmington, were present, and spoke briefly to
the children after the exercises. We gave a
little desultory talk to them, praising them for
their excellent deportment.
	Surely Zion is growing, and the little ones are
becoming a mighty host in our midst. Sister
Margaretia Call is an able assistant to Sister
Dustin, and her Counselors are also very compe-
tent and earnest co-workers.
	On Tuesday, April 22nd, we went, in company
with Sisters M. Isabella Horne, Elizabeth How-
ard and Helen Mar Whitney, to North Jordan,
where two meetings were held; the Relief Soci-
ety at 10 a. m., and the Primary Association at
2 p. m.
	Both meetings were interesting, and good in-
structions were given. Bishop Bennion was
present morning and afternoon, also other
brethren, as well as a great number of the sis-
ters. Althogether the time was profitably and
agreeably spent. Such meetings together cre-
ate union and promote happiness, and are con-
ducive to the best interests of the people. At
the meeting of the Relief Society Sister Eliza
Spencer presided. She is a very motherly and
humble woman. Her Counselors, Sisters M. A.
Webster and Mary T. Bannion, are excellent
helps in the organization, and the sisters seem
quite as far advanced spiritually as anywhere in
Salt Lake City.
	The Primary Association has Miss Maria Ben-
nion for President, a very active and efficient
young lady, and she is doing a good work,
though very timid and unasuming. We enjoyed
our visit there very much, and all the sisters
who went felt it had been a day of enjoy-
ment and pleasant association with kindred
workers in the busy hive of working bees.
	ANNUAL meeting of the 20th Ward Primary
Association, Thursday P. M, April 24th ult.,
Mrs. Emma Toone presiding. After singing by
the children, prayer was offered by Counselor
W. C. Dunbar, then singing, minutes read and
accepted, yearly report also read and approved.
In this report among other exercises, we noticed
particularly that the testimonies borne by the
children were 137, which is an item one cannot
well overlook. It speaks well for the children
of Zion, and this is one exercise which should
be encouraged, for it is something which will
produce not only a good, but lasting effect upon
the young and tender soul. In our next issue
we will give some further particulars of this in-
teresting meeting.
	Friday, April 18th, the Primary of the 13th
Ward held its annual meeting, Mrs. Lydia Ann
Wells presiding. Singing by the children.
Prayer by Master Tommie Sloan. Singing.
Minutes read and accepted, and the yearly re-
port, which was a very good one. The exer-
cises were very well rendered, among these were
an impromptu address by Master Tommie Sloan,
which deserves special mention, and also the
questions, on card No. 4, so perfectly answered
by the children. Brief remarks were made by
Sisters Ellen C. Clawson, Mary Allsop, Presi-
dent of Primary Association at Richmond, B.
W. Smith, Margaret Young and Bishop Atwood.
Benediction by Counselor Francis Platte.
	Refreshments were served to the little folks.
This Primary is in a very good condition, the
president has labored very diligently, but the
parents, many of them, are lacking in interest

[Column 2]
concerning the training of the little ones; and
do not see that they attend as they should if they
expect to be benefitted thereby.
	On account of the fire last June, which burn-
ed all the flies on hand of the Woman's Ex-
ponent, we find it necessary to advertise for a
few numbers to complete our file for use in the
office. Those having these numbers, who do
not expect to have them bound for their own
use, will please forward them to the Editor.
They will receive the money for them, or credit
on their subscription. Numbers wanted: Vol-
ume 3, No. 23; Volume 4, Nos. 8 and 15; Volume
5, Nos. 19 and 23; Volume 6, Nos. 3 and 9; Vol-
ume 9, No. 10; Volume 10, No. 16; Volume 11,
No. 4.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 181


GRATITUDE.

	I once heard President Young say that ingrat-
itude was a great sin. I often reflect upon this,
and the privileges and blessings we enjoy. As
the young and rising generation are we grateful
that we have had the privilege of being born in
Zion? It has been said that "the time will come
when it will be considered a great blessing to
have been born in Zion," and also to have been
born in the everlasting covenant. A great many
of us have not been baptized Gentiles, but
children of the Saints. We are grateful that we
have the privilege of being heirs of God, and
joint heirs with Jesus Christ. Are we also grate-
ful for the privilege of being taught the princi-
ples of life everlasting? These things are mark-
ed out so plainly to us. Are we also grateful
that we have the privilege of living here in
these peaceful valleys, away from the wicked-
ness and corruption of the world? Do we real-
ize these blessings, and many more, too numer-
ous to mention, and do we show our gratitude
by our doings? Will it benefit us if we take no
pains to become better, or to become better try
to do better, and by so doing show our grati-
tude?
	If we follow out the counsels of those who are
placed over us, try to improve and learn wisdom,
perform the various duties required of us to per-
form from time to time, and endeavor by so do-
ing to show our gratitude. Show our Father in
Heaven that we are grateful for His mercies and
loving kindness, and by so doing let our light so
shine before men that others seeing our exam-
ple may endeavor to do likewise.
	We, as daughters of Zion, have a great many
duties to perform. It is often said that drones
are good for nothing. Therefore let us be dili-
gent, striving to do good to all with whom we
associate, and especially father and mother,
brother and sister, and show by our loving kind-
ness that we wish to do them good. When we
perform our duties others are strengthened and
enabled to rise determined to follow in our
footsteps. If we neglect our privileges will they
not rise up in judgment against us to condemn
us?
	Let us be careful to improve the privileges
and blessings we enjoy, thereby showing our
gratitude to God, that we love Him and try to
keep His commandments.
						AUNT HANNAH.
	NEPHI.


THOUGHTS AND REFLECTIONS.

	I often reflect, while perusing our excellent pa-
per, with its many choice and instructive pieces
from the pens of our dear sisters, what great
reason we have to be thankful to the one who
first inspired this great undertaking—for inspira-
tion it certainly was—whereby the women of
Zion could be heard, that we could become bet-
ter acquainted with each other, learn of eac


other's desires, faith and works, thereby draw-
ing the bonds of affection and sympathy in
closer connection. We are led to realize there is
a sympathy between us; we all have one faith,
one hope, one baptism; we are all struggling for
the same goal. The fact is brought plainer and
more forcibly to our minds that we are not alone
struggling for that haven of rest, which we have
faith in and expect will be the reward of our
works here in this mortal sphere. Some seem
fated to have more severe trials than others;
why this is so remains one of the mysteries; al-
though we are all very apt to think that we
have all the trials we can possibly endure. The
trials of this life are necessary to purify us, and
we have got to be tried as gold seven times puri-
fied by fire. If we cannot be purified by pass-
ing once through the furnace of affliction we
have to be thrown in again and again, until we
become as the pure gold that is without any al-
loy, neither spot nor blemish. We are like the
rough diamond that requires putting through
very delicate cutting processes to get the rough
corners polished, before it can attain to that per-
fection which makes it so valuable.
	The Lord will have a tried people. "Blessed
are those who come up through great tribula-
tion." Then let us thank the Lord for our trials,
for they help to bring us nearer to our God. Let
us have faith in His over-ruling providence that
He will guide us safely through. Whatever we
are called to endure, let us do so without mur-
mur or complaint in our hearts, and then the
rich blessings of heaven will attend us.
								S. M. P.
	Mesa City.


A TESTIMONY.

	I was born March 18th, 1813, in Windsor,
Hartford County, Connecticut. Was baptized
into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints August 27th, 1843, in Westfield, Mass.,
by Ezra T. Benson. Gathered with the Church
at Nauvoo September 27th of the same year.
The doctrine of plural marriage was taught to
me in November by Ezra T. Benson, by the di-
rection of Brother Hyrum Smith. Another
sister, a married lady, was present. The princi-
ple had been taught to her by Brother Joseph
some months previous, and she received it like
a young bird does its food from its mother, as
she did everything the prophet presented (these
were her words to me). I could not accept it
quite so readily. I will never forget that even-
ing, and for days my heart seemed bursting with
its agony. I had been a Baptist from my child-
hood, and had been accustomed to go to the
Lord with all my troubles, and for days and
nights I did nothing but pray and weep. Ezra
and Pamella, my sister, tried to comfort me, but
I could get no comfort until, as I awoke from a
troubled sleep, after I had been grieving, a voice
sounded in my ears, it is truth. Whether I
heard with my natural ears I cannot tell, but I
heard it distinctly. This was repeated on the fol-
lowing morning, and light, joy and gladness
filled my heart. All this transpired more than
forty years ago, and I have never since doubted
the truth of this principle, which is everywhere
spoken against.
	I have written this because it placed plurality
of wives beyond a doubt in my mind, and ever
made me feel that my marriage was honorable
in the sight of God, and eventually would be in
the sight of man, and hoping it would help to
strengthen the faith of others in the truth of
Mormonism.
	I wish to bear my testimony to it before I
"pass beyond the river."
	April, 1844, I entered into the order of plural
marriage, and became the wife of Ezra T. Ben-


son; and although I have had many trials to
pass through I have never regretted it. Those
that entered this order in the early days know
what trials are, but they are passed, and many
have overcome to a great extent. This Gospel
is true, every principle of it, and it will never
be overthrown. The nearer I come to the be-
yong the plainer I see my failures to do my
Father's will, and I cry out in my weakness,

"Nearer, my God, to thee, nearer to thee;
Although it be a cross that raiseth me."
					ADELINE B. BENSON.


182	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
TRAVELS BEYOND THE MISSISSIPPI.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)

	The following are incidents of our camp
life on the Missouri River. Monday, 15th,
Horace speaks of going to a stream hard by
to assist the girls in washing. Those uninter-
esting and unpleasant incidents I remember
very distinctly, though I might have passed
them over had he not made mention of this
circumstance. As cleanliness is next to godli-
ness, and having abundance of time when the
weather permitted, we had no good reason for
neglecting this duty. And we had plenty of
boys ready and willing to hitch up a team to
take us to the water if any distance away from
camp; if so, we would take a picnic or send
back for a warm dinner. The boys would
spend their spare time fishing or as they felt in-
clined till the washing was done. Though our
washing was not so very extensive, it was hard
enough with the sun beating down, and so
breathless and sultry that it appeared as though
we must melt down under it, and this was not
a pleasant thing to anticipate. I was not a
strong girl—having grown up like a shaded
plant I had little strength, and was what is
generally termed lazy; one of the worst ills, I
think, that can afflict humanity, if I may
judge from my own experience. But we had
ample time to do our washing, ironing and
mending, also our sewing, besides making our
daily toilet. And even our fashionable dress-
makers found employment as the warm weath-
er came on. Father had two or three wives
who had learned the trade, and the same num-
ber who understood tailoring, and one of them
had been brought up to the corset making
trade, and all of them were trained up to some
kind of useful industry, and were virtuous and
worthy women, and, as a general rule, they
sought the interests of one another. All had
their trials and temptations—being new begin-
ners in what might be termed an adverse
school, which was calculated to bring into ac-
tion faculties that might forever have lain dor-
mant—testing every one's nature, showing up
their weak points and bringing them to the
surface, to be thrown off, and learn each one to
govern themselves, which was the very thing
to make them saints or sinners. The "Mor-
mon" companies were all orderly, and were
truly models by the side of those who followed
in their trail who were not governed by the
same strict rules and religious motives and
principles that our people were. Our salva-
tion, both temporal and spiritual, depended
upon this course, and our history is a wonder
and a marvel to those who have taken the
trouble to hunt us and review it in all its ups
and downs. And my reasons for writing what
many, no doubt, think rather dry and prosy
reading, concerning the journey and sojourn of
the Latter-day Saints in the wilderness in the
year 1846, over a country which could be easi-
ly travelled in a week or ten days under ordi-
nary circumstances, but which took us six
months to accomplish, are to give to the gener-
ations that have grown up since, a little idea

[Column 2]
of the trials and hardships of those long and
tedious days and months that were spent by
the pioneers in making roads, building bridges
and houses and making farms, etc., etc., for the
comfort of the ones who were to follow; and
our experience, I think, comes nearest to that
of the children of Israel after their departure
out of the land of Egypt than any other peo-
ple of whom we have any record, though I be-
lieve that we were a more patient people. And
who have been as miraculously saved from
death in many forms than they were? And
the same God has fought for us while we have
held our peace, and has brought us deliverance
every time; and it is our wish and purpose to
trust Him still.
	Wednesday, the 17th, Horace, with some of
my father's men and W. Markham, started on
a trading expedition, also some of Bishop
Whitney's men with teams. They went into
Atchison Co., Missouri, where they threshed
out about 120 bushels of wheat, sent it to mill
about twenty miles below there to be ground,
and brought back about 6,300 pounds, also
shelled out a quantity of corn and brought
with them—also some seed wheat. Howard
Egan, who was father's principal agent, had
preceded them two or three days. They were
absent two weeks and returned on the 17th of
July, finding President B. Young and father
absent, having gone back for the purpose of
raising volunteers for the Mexican expedition.
From the 17th Horace had to depend on Peter
Hanson's journal for facts occuring during his
absence.
	Peter wrote on the 17th, "To-day, by invi-
tation, B. Young, Bro. Kimball, Dr. Richards,
Bp Whitney and some of the band came down
in carriages to the settlement to take dinner.
The agent, the principal Indian chief and a
number of others were there and appeared de-
lighted with our music. This evening our
company was enlarged by five families from
Michigan. We learn that Elder Orson Hyde
and John Taylor have just come up with their
companies." Peter speaks of the abundance
of strawberries found at that place. There
was a carriage load of us went with mother on
the 19th some distance from camp where they
grew so thick that we could not help stepping
on them. The heat was intense, being in a
small valley in the woods, and having no wat-
er, only what we carried in a jug. I had been
picking for quite a time and the berries look-
ing so delicately tempting I kept reaching for
them till I fell helpless, though not senseless.
But the rest having gone farther away from
the carriage than myself, I was alone and had
to lay there till I recovered enough to crawl to
the carriage where, though famishing for a
cooling draught, I found nothing but tepid wa-
ter. Towards sundown it grew cooler, and
feeling better, I went out again. President B.
Young came down with a carriage load of his
family about that time and we picked berries
till dusk, when we returned to camp. We had
filled all our pails and pans full and eaten till
we were clogged and wanted no more strawber-
ries that year. That day an invitation had
been received from the agent for the camp and
Wm. Pitt's band to spend the day at the Point.
This was delightful, especially to the young
people, and though I was very unwell through
the night, it was out of the question for me to
forego such a pleasure. This was the first time
that our chests had been disturbed or opened
since packing them in Nauvoo, being the first
time that we had needed anything but common
apparel. And it was really delightful to once
more see the inside of our chests and to
bring out the pretty bonnets, laces, ribbons,
parasols and kid shoes, etc., that had been
packed away, and to think that we were again
to attend a ball. And I rather think we as-
tonished the good folks at the Point to see so
many well dressed and merry hearted boys and

[Column 3]
girls and gentle people who were exiles from
civilization. Peter Hanson, in his description,
says of them, "They were mostly French, half
breeds and Indians—the ladies of all are very
interesting and quite neat in their personal ap-
pearance. Music and dancing were had, and
one of the Indian ladies wished to have an
introduction to Brother Kimball, that she
might dance with him." This was Le Clerc's
daughter, the educated chief of the Pottowato-
mie tribe. She was a spoiled child, and had
married a young white man of very immoral
habits. She had been educated in a western
city and dressed with taste and was quite ac-
complished in the art of coquetry and the be-
witching graces characteristic of the fashiona-
ble belle of society. All of the inhabitants
were warm-hearted and treated us with great
hospitality. The gaiety and excitement of the
day with the dancing was too much for me and
I was taken home very sick, and remained so
for three or four days; and afterwards received
quite a reproof from my father, when I had re-
covered enough to bear it, for my foolishness.
My husband being absent, he felt it his duty to
chasten his daughter, whose only plea was ig-
norance and a passionate love of the dance.
But the lesson came too late only as a warning
with a heavy penitence for past folly. At this
place we had some windy, dusty and stormy
days. Five families came from Michigan—and
also a large camp, called the Mississippi com-
pany, overtook us there.
	Sunday, 21st, two meetings were held and a
number of Frenchmen and Indians came up on
horseback in the afternoon. We were camped
on the Bluffs, nine miles from the Point.


﻿R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference of the
Ladies' Relief Society of the Weber Stake of
Zion, held in the Ogden Tabernacle, March
13th, 1884. The meeting was conducted by
President Jane S. Richards, commenced with
singing, "Come let us rejoice," prayer by Bish-
op Robert Mc.Quarrie, singing again, "Come
all ye sons of God." Minutes of the previous
conference were read and accepted, also the re-
ports, 17 in number.
	President Jane S. Richards made a few
opening remarks; was pleased in having the
opportunity of being in our midst, and was
greatly pleased at seeing so many of her broth-
ers and sisters present, considering the inclem-
ency of the weather they had done remarkably
well. Thought Sisters Eliza R. S. Smith and
Zina Y. Smith both had great courage to trav-
el as they did back and forth to our confer-
ences; exhorted us to be as persevering as they
were. Felt the Lord would bless them, and
us to, for all the good we do here, be it ever so
little. Counselor Hattie C. Brown could not
meet with us, her mother being very ill; and
having lately lost her father we all feel to con-
dole with her. Counselor Sarah J. Herrick
also hath sickness in her family, and could not
be present; but God is just and has some good
reason for afflicting His saints. All is well
with Him. Put full faith and confidence in
the Lord.
	Sister Eliza R. S. Smith said she was pleased
to look and behold so many of her brothers
and sisters faces, it being a little over a year
since she was here. Thanked God her Heav-
enly Father that we as women of Zion could
meet together in these meetings, organized by
the Lord for the good and advancement of
women; think of the good they can accomplish
when bound together by love and union. We
are progressing step by step; we commenced
with but little, but have been greatly blessed
of the Lord, and are increasing in numbers
and financial affairs. Spoke of the average


[Column 1]
attendance seeming small in comparison with
the number of members; but when we take a
ward into consideration there is a faithful few
minute women ready to do what is required of
them, doing their duty, comforting the down-
hearted and afllicted, feeding the hungry,
clothing the naked, attending to the wants of
the poor, blessing them, not only temporally,
but spiritually, speaking words of comfort and
of the great goodness and mercy of the Lord
unto us; exhorting our sisters to seek Him,
the great Father of all, is also a work of the
sisters, in connection with the more common
affairs of our daily life.  What reward can we
expect hereafter if we do not earn it?  Can we
share equally with those who have labored dil-
igently and faithfully?  No, we cannot; we
must extend the hand of love and charity to
those not of us; let them get the refreshings
that we get, how strengthening it would be to
both body and spirit.  She felt to ask Father
to quicken their senses; think of the quickened
five senses. The world have these five senses,
they have the germ; how is it with us?  Has
not God given us five senses and one more?
The Saints have six senses, the comforter,
which takes of the things of God and shows
us how to comprehend all things in a right and
proper manner.  We are the favored few
whose hearts have been touched; let us be very
watchful over these frail natures, lest we go as-
tray; let us culivate and strengthen the six
senses.  The Comforter will not dwell with
envy, strife, faultfinding and many other
things not of God.  Our first duty as a Relief
Society is to look after the poor, watch over
them that none may suffer in our midst; this
needs wisdom, this God alone can give.  Said
it was also the duty of every sister teacher to
administer to her sick sisters if called upon to
do so; they should be prayerful and humble,
and, through faith, bring down blessings from
heaven.  She hoped to associate with her sis-
ters, not only here, but hereafter; hoped to live
worthy of the society of the true saints of God
for all time.  Spoke on many other things of
importance; asked God to bless and prolong
oru lives that we might be the means of doing
all we came here to do.
	Sister Zina Y. Smith desired an interest in
the prayers of her brothers and sisters; felt
that it was the desire of every heart to accom-
plish something and do some good.  Our hearts
are filled with love and confidence in each oth-
er.  Do we pray for the Relief Societies in
our family circle?  The late President Brigham
Young prayed daily for the welfare of these or-
ganizations; said we can feel the spreading
work of the word of wisdom; what a long-liv-
ing effect it will have upon the spirit as well
as the body.  Spoke of prayer: prayer was the
key to the Latter-day Saints.  There are many
things the Lord will reveal unto us yet.  Heard
Brother Kimball say fourteen years ago if
every person bowed the knee night and morn-
ing there would be no apostacy among us; live
in humility and we would have the constant
sunshine of God.  Sister Zina spoke of mar-
riage among our young people, training the
young, light literature, etc.
	Counselor C. F. Middleton spoke upon a va-
riety of subjects—charity, prayer, trials and
temptations of the young, the great work de-
volving upon the mothers and fathers in Isra-
el.  He loved to mingle with us in these meet-
ings, and hoped with us to keep faithful.
	Closed the morning services with singing,
"Praise to the man who communes with Jeho-
vah."  Benediction by Counselor C. F. Mid-
dleton.
	After-noon session commenced at two p.m.
with singing and prayer.  After the reading of
the County Treasurer’s report, Sisters Genet
Bingham, Ann Beckington and Martha Bing-
ham each gave a favorable verbal report of
her respective society.

[Column 2]
	Sister Zina Y. Smith thought the soul need-
ed food as well as the body, and we should en-
joy this great picnic of spiritual things; thought
we gained strength from these associations, we
have no time to spare, we cannot live too near
the Lord; we have taken our ticket straight
through to the celestial world, and must go on
little by little, this hurrying, hardly having
time to breathe is not right, it is not the Spir-
it of God; consider well what we are going to
do, and do it, asking the help of the Lord; let
our hearts expand unto all mankind, feel for
them and try to bring them back into our Fa-
ther’s Kingdom. Thought it right and proper
that the sisters should learn to understand law
and politics, that there may be proper order
among the Latter-day Saints. Our children
must be taught all things in righteousness-
Spoke of the trials of the saints, they were
sent sometimes to prove us and for our good.
Hoped we would be blessed and be accepted of
God.
	Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith said that it was
not the pride of the world, wealth nor fame of
the world that brought so large a congregation
together, but a more noble object inspired
them.  God has spoken, has called us, the
same God that spoke anciently; this is not the
beginning of life with us, we lived before, prior
to coming here.  Are we here to work for our-
selves alone?  No; to work for the living and
the dead; referred briefly to this work, build-
ing of temples, etc.
	Sister Smith showed plainly and in a beau-
tiful manner the difference between us and the
world.  The work of God, and the work of
the evil one.  Exhorted her sisters to be
careful in the training of their children, teach-
ing truthfulness; obedience and a love for only
the good, the noble and beautiful here and
hereafter.
	Bishop Thomas Wallace had listened to the
remarks made with great satisfaction; his mind
had already been expressed.  He also spoke,
upon the Gospel and great field of labor among
the saints of God, prayed the Lord to inspire
the saints to look after the saints in a manner
as acceptable to Him, and bless them with
great knowledge and wisdom.
	Brother Joseph Parry was pleased and edi-
fied with the remarks of his brothers and sis-
ters; thought to profit by the teaching we had
to treasure them in our minds.  We came here
to gather the true riches of the Kingdom of
God.  Bro. Parry referred to the Scriptures;
spoke on charity.
	Both Bro. Wallace and Parry explained
many grand and sublime principles with re-
gard to the work of women, and Kingdom of
our Father on the earth in this age of the
world.
	Sister Richards made a few closing remarks;
hoped all with her would strive to keep the
commandments of God, and live unspotted be-
fore the world.  Asked the blessings of the 
Lord to rest upon all, that they might go home
safely, rejoicing in the goodness and mercies of
the Lord.
	Conference adjourned for three months with
singing, "Awake, ye defenders of Zion." Ben-
ediction by Bishop Gritchlow.

PROVO, UTAH STAKE.

	Minutes of ths Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Societies of Utah County, held in the
meeting house, Provo City, February 29th,
1884, Counselor Mary John presiding, the
health of our beloved president, Ma Smoot,
not permitting her to be present.
	Conference opened with the usual exercises
of singing and prayer, reading of minutes of
former Conference reports, etc.  Sister John
regretted that we had no visitors from the city
o meet with us, but thought we might be edi-
fied by the sisters at home; we should fee
thankful that we were able to meet together
again, notwithstanding there was considerable
sickness in our midst.  Our reports are good.
The sisters are a great help to the brethren,
and are wide awake to their duties.
	Sister Zina Y. Williams: It gives me pleas-
ure to meet with you. There is great improve-
ment among the sisters, they are a great help
and aid, and if these societies should be dropped
they would be missed very much.  We are
well represented in all good works, we are
called upon to help in very many things, and
I often think that the Lord does not wish us to
become very rich, we are so often called upon
to contribute of our means to some good work.
Spoke of the usefulness of the Primary Asso-
ciations; referred to the silk industry; advised
mothers to let their daughters learn to reel silk
and they would have a trade that would be
beneficial to them, etc.
	Sister Mary Ellen Cluff thought the sisters
did not attend these meetings as punctually as
they should, and were the losers thereby, these
societies are of great importance, being organ-
ized by Joseph Smith.  Let us  be charitable,
be good, be liberal; our greatest responsibilities
are our children, they will bear off this King-
dom.
	Bishop Johns said, The instructions are
good, if we magnify our callings and do our
duties it will bring us exaltation.  There is a
reformation among the people in obeying the
word of wisdom, and the saints will have more
of His spirit in consequence of obeying it.
	Conference adjourned till 2 p.m. Benedic-
tion by Bro. Graves.

	Afternoon.  Conference opened with the
usual exercises. Sister Anna K. Smoot spoke
of the benefit these societies were in bringing
us together.  She had belonged to the society
for many years; had become acquainted with
many that she would not have known other-
wise. Spoke of the power of God in convinc-
ing us of the truth of his work, and gave some 
incidents of her experience.
	Henry H. Cluff made some very instructive
and interesting remarks.
	Bro. Johns said the sisters that are hero are
those that take an active part in various
wards, and I am happy to speak to those sis-
ters.  I do not know what the Bishop would
do without their help, and the influence of the
Young Ladies and Primary Association.  If
all should give their experience it would make
volumes; experiences that we have gained are
bulwarks that no ball can penetrate; the world
cannot comprehend us.  Let us continue in
well-doing.  Let us remember the aged, those
that have helped to build up tha Kingdom,
and may the blessings of God  be with us.
Amen.
	After a few more remarks from Sister John
the name of Sister Rhoda Lyman, wife of
Apostle F. M. Laman, was proposed to the
Conference as Second Counselor to Margaret T.
Smoot in the Stake organization of the Relief
Society of Utah County.  The motion was car-
ried unanimously.  After singing Conference
adjourned for three months. Benediction by
H. H. Cluff.
	The statistical and financial report is as fol-
lows:
	Members, 2,132; Teachers, 343: Meetings
held, 227; Average attendance, 598; Woman's
Exponent, 152; Other Church papers, 108;
Disbursements to the poor, $940.93; To the
Temple, $88.20; Missionaries, $53.90; Build-
ings, Stake Tabernacle, $801.15; Home indus-
tries, $17.36; Deseret Hospital, $55.40; Sundry
disbursements, $15.05; Books or stationery,
$9.05; Total disbursements, $1,981.04.
				Mrs. Caroline Daniels,
						Secretary,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 183


184	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SILK CULTURE.

	Considerable interest has been manifested of
late years throughout the United States regard-
ing this industry. Many Associations are en-
tirely devoted to its interests; the State of Cal-
ifornia has appointed a special committee; and
made a large appropriation from the state
treasury to forward its interest in general. The
committee has issued circulars requesting all
silk raisers not to sell any cocoons out of the
state, as all that can be raised will be required
at their own Filature, they also advertise to
purchase cocoons from any other silk raisers in
the United States. Utah is pronounced by all
who profess to know anything of the subject to
be second to none in natural resources for "silk
culture," and there are in existence throughout
the Territory, mulberry patches sufficient that,
if used as silk producing food, would realize
thousands of dollars annually, with such a near
market as California.
	The primary object of planting these mul
berry patches, we are aware, was "home indus-
try;” to raise the silk and manufacture it in
the Territory, was the aim. Having failed so
far to accomplish this fully, nearly all interest
in the matter has been lost, and many have
talked of cutting down and uprooting the trees,
if, in fact, some have not already done so; but
we are glad to learn that there are still a num-
ber standing. Nearly all are aware of the ob-
stacle that stands in the way of successful prog-
ress, it costs too much to reel it, and the pro-
duction is so small by all methods which have
been tried that it does not pay. We do not
wish to occupy space and time in writing upon
points connected with this subject, but come at
once to the point aimed at in this short arti-
cle.
	We have been endeavoring for nearly a year
to push to a successful issue the manufacture of
silk dress goods and handkerchiefs from for-
eign material, not having the necessary ma-
chinery for the manufacture of native silk, and
although we have not gained all we started for,
we feel assured we can go on and make a suc-
cessful business of it; but we are not satisfied
to do this, as the manufacture of native silk
has been [--]th us, as with our predecessors, the
main poi[--]
	We are happy to be able to state that we
have now in process of construction a combina-
tion reel, which can be made to run from one
to six or any number, all driven by one shaft,
at the same time, separately governed by an
"electric stop motion,” which stops each separ-
ate reel the moment a fiber gives out, either by
breaking or otherwise. By this means w.e, will
be able to reduce the cost of reeling by the quan-
tity produced, so as to effectually remove the
obstacle to the use of native silk in this branch
of industry, as by this method one reeler can
attend to a number of reels. Nothing more
need be said on this point. 	L
We will be prepared in the fall, or as soon as
cocoons can be raised and properly dried, to
purphase from one to two thousand pounds
of cocoons for our own use, and will pay the
highest market price for all first class, well
dried and cleaned cocoons. Must be free from
double and ready for use, $1.25 per pound if
exchanged for silk goods of our own make at
wholesale prices, or if in cash 1.00 per pound.
We will also furnish eggs if the different asso-
ciations will find out how many will be want-
ed, and make the necessary arrangements for
purchasing and forwarding the same; or we
will give the necessary information where eggs
can be purchased and forwarded to any ad-
dress. The latter method we would prefer, as
our hands are full of other matters; but the
great importance of attending to this matter at
once is apparent to all concerned. We there-
fore urge upon all who can to try once more
and see if by our own persistent efforts, togeth-
er with the blessings of God, we cannot make
the silk industry of Utah what it ought to be,
second to none in the United States.
All letters, whether of inquiry or orders for
eggs, to be addressed to James L. Chalmers,
Silk Factory, Salt Lake City.


﻿A number of letters written by George Eli-
ot, to "a friend abroad," have been published
in the Jourual des Debats. It is thought these
letters were addressed to Madame Bodichon.


OBITUARIES.

	I grieve to have to record the death of Sister Lucinda
S. Curtis, who died March 24th, of childbed fever, aged 32
years, 9 months and 13 days; she leaves a husband and
seven children to mourn her loss. She died as she had 
lived, a faithful Latter-day Saint, and had acted as Sec-
ond Counselor in the Relief Society since last June.
								LIZZIE LAYTON.

	DIED, at Malad City, March 26th, 1884, Mary Davis,
daughter, of Zaphonie and Caroline Jose, aged 24 years
and 6 months, leaving a husband and six little children,
(two of whom are twin girls nine days old) with many
relative and friends to mourn her loss. Sister Mary Da-
vis was a member of the Y. L. M. I. A., which she filled
with credit, possessing a meek and humble spirit she
strove to live the life of a Latter-day Saint, although
surrounded by trying circumstances. Having taken the
right course to secure her little ones in the morning of
the first resurrection she now rests in peace, to awake
when the just are called forth at the sound of the
trump, to associate with those that have washed their
robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb,
clothed with immortality and eternal life.
									ANNE SAWYER.
	Deseret News and Millennial Star, Please copy.


SPENCER HOUSE.

	We are so often spoken to in reference to a
good house to stop at by strangers visiting our
city, as also by our people from the settlements,
that we take pleasure in recommending the
"Spencer House" as thoroughly respectable,
clean and pleasant. The table has long borne
the reputation of not being excelled; the
grounds are the largest of any hotel grounds in
the city, which, with its extensive lawns and
abundant shade trees, make it pre-eminently a
most inviting resort for tourists—prices are
reasonable.
	This house is situated on Post Office Block,
1st East, between 2nd and 3rd South, Nos. 251
and 252.


[Column 1]
For Sale at this Office.

BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.

PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,		-	25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,		40c,	"
POEMS, by E. R. Snow. Vol. 1,		-		$1,00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, -	1.50	"

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
	Office and residence, Main Street, in the new Mor-
ris building, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE IN GOBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence

[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
☞ We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUSHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

[Image of store]
HENRY DINWOODEY.

FURNITURE
WALL PAPER,
CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUINS
AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY.

F Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
☞ CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 12.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1884.	No. 24.


SOLILOQUY.

TO MY ROCKING CHAIR.

	Thou dear, dumb friend! thou dost deserve
Some words in gratitude to thee
For all that thou hast been to me:
	A kindly servant—made to serve.

	When weary with the toils of day
Thine open arms I ever see,
That seem to whisper, "Come to me!"
	And I the loving call obey.

	Reclining in those faithful arms.
Thou seemest to have wonderous power,
To bear me up for one brief hour
	To realms of thought's obsorbing charm

	I fold my arms, I close mine eyes;
The world recedes—I'm into space!
Away in some remembered place,
	Where aught of sorrow it defies.

	I mingle with the loved ones gone,
I visit haunts of early home;
At times in crowds, but most alone
	Ignoring all of sigh or groan.

	I note the sunny spots alone,
The plats where early flowers spring,
The primrose and the violet ring,
	The king cup and the cowslip's home.

	That "Dial yard!" Oh! how my thought
Goes out o'er every inch of ground;
Where peacocks walked so grand around
	The home with birds and bantams fraught.

	And "Wormwood hill!"—how oft we climbed
Its wooded sides—its beauteous crown—
While some the beech nuts showered down,
	And others on the sward reclined.

	Old chair! the transit of the plains;
Yes, we that journey made together,
In sunshine and in gloomy weather,
	In summer draughts and drenching rains.

	But years have rolled, and brought us up
To eighteen hundred eighty-four;
We've plodded on, if slow, yet sure—
	Together we must drain the cup—

	The mingled cup of earthly time,
But to each other let's be true;
No grander chair I choose than you,
	And still within thine arms recline.

	It may be I may pass away
"Beyond the gates" from out thine arms,
This thought, for me, has sweetest charms,
	If near or distant be the day.
								HANNAH T. KING.
May 4th, 1884.


[Column 1]
A HOMESPUN TALK.

LITERARY WOMEN.

	Yes, my dear madame, literary women are
possessed of as much sensibility as yourself.
Their feelings are quite as easily ruffled as your
own. Strange, isn't it?
	I smile sometimes when I compare those
poor, offending creatures called literary women
in our smaller towns and settlements to the
deeply dyed blues of the Eastern and Middle
States. Perhaps the literary women of our
towns never soared higher than Dickens or
Robbie Burns; but if she feels there is some-
thing higher and better than "Dora Share,"
and "Sunshine and Shadow," along with Frank
Leslie's and Godey's Magazine, and writes a
few words occasionally for our bright little
EXPONENT behold her tainted with a pitiful

[Column 2]
stain; her sisters think of her with a mixture
of contempt and envy, and as they raise their
hands and eyes, exclaim energetically, "Thank
heaven we are not literary."
	A number of persons were speaking one
evening about a young girl who was shortly to
be married. Some one asked a question about
her, to which an ignorant woman replied, "Oh,
she is ever so industrious and smart, sews and
cooks, isn't a bit literary, is a good housekeep-
er and in fact, you know, she's just the kind of
a woman for a good wife." Humph! I was
not to blame if my lip went up and my eyelids
down.
	You must know the truth is these Pariah's
of society (like myself) have always known
that while their associates looked down upon
them and spoke sneeringly of them, they were
their superiors mentally. But I think, too, like
Carlyle's Sandy Mc.Phearson, the associates
can never be made to understand this solemn
fact; and—that's where the shoe pinches (oh,
excuse the slang.
	But I'd just like to tell these people what
the term, "literary woman," means, in Utah, at
least. It means a woman who has read a lit-
-tle and don't give herself up to such supersti-
tions folly as giving fried mice to children with
the whooping cough, and who struggles brave-
ly against broken looking glasses and over
turned salt. It means women who are home-
makers and not merely house-keepers. It
means women who have worked early and late
for the little information they have gathered,
and whose days are full and pressed over with
the large measure of usefulness and labor. It
means women who strive to copy the grand ex-
ample of Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith, the wo-
man who for over fifty long years, ever since
she joined this Church has washed her apparel,
made and mended her clothes, for many years
has done all her own house work unaided, and
does so now; has walked silently and nobly a-
broad among the people night and day, carry-
ing aloft the bright candle of intelligence which
shone in vision at her girlish bedside, has read,
studied, written, edited and sang some of the
greatest and most enduring things in the king-
dom; who is in every sense of the word, a "lit-
erary woman," and is, too, a marvelous house-
keeper, exquisitely neat in every thing, and a
mother to thousands of Israel's daughters and
children.
	The term includes women who mind their
own business, and never have time to pick up
their bonnet and run over to the neighbor's
house to tell and be told everybody's business,
and to say anything but their prayers. It
means women who are first in the great march
of improvement and reform. Women who are
their husband's mates and helpers, not servants
and dependents. Women who love Mormon-
ism for its grandeur and purity, because they
know its sublime worth. It means women un-
married, that know too well the value of time
to waste it on paltry novels and paint and
bangs, but that elevate their own beings, lifting
up their associates insensibly to the highest
and noblest of aims. It means women who
look with contempt on the readers of Ledgers,
Saturday Nights and Firseside Companions,
but who earnestly strive to induce a taste for
that which is pure and ennobling.
	And, oh, it means women with oceans of
faults, but with a steadfast determination to
overcome as fast as may be, humbly silently
and prayerfully, the stumblingblocks in them-
selves; it means women who often have no time
to crochet tidies or scour out the chinks with a
tooth brush, but who always have time to cheer
fully assist husband or child; it means women
with hearts, brains and wills; but, oh gracious,
it can never mean—lazy women.


MEDITATIONS.

	It appears by the signs of the times that the
Lord's words are to be verified, for He has
said His people would be a tried people; they
should be hated by all nations, driven and per-
secuted. Still He has said, "Blessed are you
when men shall revile you, and persecute you
for my sake." The Lord in these last days has
seen fit to restore His Priesthood to the earth
through His servant, Joseph Smith, and we
are happy recipients of the same. Now it
stands us in hand to be alive to the duties de-
volving upon us, and not swerve to the right
nor to the left, but struggle nobly on to the
great end it is our aim to reach. What does
it matter to us if we are up to the line of our
duties if our enemies do howl? We fear them
not; our minds can be at rest, we know (not be-
lieve) the Lord will protect us; the devil and
his imps have a mission to perform, and they
have but a short time to do it in, it therefore
behooves him to get as many to assist him as
possible, and it looks as though he was having
but little trouble to get plenty to work for him
for little wages and board themselves; they
know not the trouble they are bringing upon
their own heads! How plainly the Lord
shows He is no respector of persons, for He
commands His servants to go preach the Gos-
pel to every nation, kindred, tongue and peo-
ple. Is it then any fault of His if at the last
day they will be as stubble, and be burned?
They will find when it is too late they have in-
jured themselves and no one else. They are
only preparing themselves for speedy destruc-
tion; for "vengeance is mine, and I will repay,"
saith the Lord, and He gives us very comfort-
ing words in Hebrews xiii, 5; there He says,
"I will never forsake thee." Then wake, O ye
slumbering nations, awake from the slumber of
death ere it be too late; arouse yourselves from
the great lethargy you have fallen into, ere
the vengeance of God come upon you. Oh, ye
ministers of modern Christendom, ye enemies
of new revelation! how can ye escape damna-
tion? How many good, honest-hearted people
you have deceived by your cunning craftiness
and lying hypocrisies. How many millions
would have called on God in faith for revela-
tions, prophecies, visions, and the ministry of
angels, and received those precious blessings,
had it not been for the wicked and soul-des-
troying errors which you have instilled in their
ears by telling them that these things were re-
pealed and done away. Repent, therefore, of
this great wickedness and be baptised for the
remission of your sins and you shall receive
the gift of the Holy Ghost, which shall give
you visions and revelations, and shall show you
things to come; and except you do this the
wrath and indignation of that being against
whom you have labored shall speedily over-
take you, and you shall perish from off the
earth. "Repent, therefore, quickly that you may
find mercy."						J. E. C.


There is not a moment without some duty.—
Cicero.


186	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TRAVELS BEYOND THE MISSISSIPPI.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)

	"Tuesday, 23rd," Peter continues, "cold,
windy and rainy to-day—Brother Joseph Toron-
to, the only Italian in the Church, made
mother (Vilate Kimball) a present of some
oranges, lemons and wine; he had come from
the city of Joseph, Nauvoo, in nine days.
Helen has been quite sick, but is getting well.
It being still cold and rainy on the 24th we
were glad to make use of a stove in the tent.
Bro K. is writing a letter to Nauvoo—called
this place Heber's rest."
	Thursday, 25th. News was received from
the "Society Islands" of branches being built
up, and that the queen and all the heirs to the
crown had been baptized into the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	The 26th. A council was held, and next
day, Saturday, father and President Young
went back three miles. While gone they visit-
ed fourteen camps of the Saints. The same
day men were sent ten miles to build a bridge,
that those returning from trading in the Platt
Co. could thus save fifteen miles journey; and
on the 29th two men with six yoke of oxen
were sent to meet and assist them.
	"Sunday 28," Peter continues, "meeting held
at our largest tent this morning, a large num-
ber of Bro. Kimball's family being present,
and some others. He preached to them, ex-
horting them to love one another, with a great
deal of other good advise. The sacrament
was then administered and the meeting closed.
Bro. Kimball then went to public meeting,
which was opened by prayer by O. Hyde. B.
Young then spoke at some length; spoke of the
necessity of guarding our sheep from the
wolves."
	Thursday, 30th. The camps commenced
moving back to the old camping ground on
the river; Peter says the reason for this was
that the Twelve had received intelligence that
four officers had come from Fort Leavensworth
to Mt. Pisgah, and were now on the way to re-
quest us to let our able bodied young men en-
list and go to Santa Fee to fight against the
Mexicans, and then go to Calfornia to get a
location for the rest of the "Mormons" in re-
muneration for their services, and says, "After
we had started to-day a messenger came up to
tell us that the said officers had arrived at the
camp on the hill."
	"Wednesday, July 1st. This morning the
Presidency went to the Bluffs to see said offi-
cers, Council was held and the request to raise
500 volunteers from among us, taken into con-
sideration.	*	*	If they could
not raise that number they did not want any.
The Presidency agreed to do it on condition
that the people were willling."
	"In the afternoon father came back," Peter
says, "and started to cross the river, but on
getting to the ferry we could not cross, so went
back ¾ of a mile and encamped on a small ele-
vation of ground under the beautiful shade of
an old elm tree.	*	*	*	Col.
Scott and Dr. Willard Richards are camped
here with us." The mosquitoes being so
troublesome near the river obliged us to move
back, and as we were far from water the ac-
cordingly dug a well close by.
	As it was nearly dusk when they concluded
to move from the river, and being very weary,
I, with one or two others, had accepted an in-
vitation from the chief's daughter to accom-
pany her home; and when returning, finding
the wagons gone and not feeling strong, she
urged me to return and stop the night, which
invitation I accepted, though I spent a some-
what nervous and wakeful night, but when
morning came I felt more at ease. I learned
that her parents had separated, as her mother

[Column 2]
was now living with her and did most of the
work. Though dressed in her native costume
she looked neat, and kept the house tidy, and
could cook equal to the white women. This
was quite a wood country, which abounded
in blackberries and other wild fruit, and as
they were getting ripe we went out in the morn-
ing and picked what we wanted to eat, after
which she showed her taste and skill in braid-
ing my hair in broad plats, after the latest
French style, and put it up a la mode, and af-
ter dinner accompanied me to camp. While
stopping at this place I went, by invitation,
with one or two of my father's young wives, to
take tea with the wife of the interpreter, who
gave us a little of the history, not only of the
chief and his daughter, but of the Indian
tribes the Sioux and Pottawatomies, who were
at war with each other. And it was only the
evening of the 6th that a Pottawatomie Indian
came to our camp on horse back, bringing a
message, which he could only make known by
signs. The import of it was that the Sioux
Indians had killed a Pottawatomie, and he
wanted our people to assist them in fighting
the Sioux, and thus revenge their comrad's
death.
	On the morning of the 3rd father and Presi-
dent B. Young started for Mt. Pisgah on the
recruting business. When the news first came
to us of the war between the United States and
Mexico we little dreamed of the requirement
that the government were about to make at
our hands, and congratulated ourselves that
being expelled from their midst we should
travel undisturbed beyond the Rocky Moun-
tains, where we should hear no more conten-
tions, turmoils and strife, and we had cause to
look upon this demand with suspicion, especial-
ly after the threat which was thrown out in the
letter received from Sam Brannan just previ-
ous to starting on our journey. But our peo-
ple proved their loyalty by kissing the hand
that had driven them into the wilderness,
where it was hoped, by the majority, we should
utterly perish, and it was thought that by tak-
ing from us 500 of our young, able bodied
men in that Indian country that it would
cripple us so much that it would insure our
utter destruction; but there a few honorable
men like Colonel Thomas L. Kane, who, like
true-hearted countrymen, rendered all the as-
sistance that was possible to the Saints in this,
their most trying hour.


RESOLUTIONS OP RESPECT.

	Resolutions of Respect on the resignation of
Sister Caroline Bromley, March 15th, 1884.
	Whereas, Our much beloved President has
seen fit to resign her position as President of
Y. L. M. I. A. of Springville, we therefore ac-
cept her resignation, and,
	Be it resolved, That, recognizing the circum-
stances of events which have led our beloved
President to sever the ties which have so long
bound her and her sisters in their labors to-
gether, we do therefore accept her resignation,
which is to take effect the 15th of March
1884.
	Resolved, That by purity of life and conver-
sation, by kindness of spirit and grace of con-
duct, by patience and fidelity in the discharge
of the many duties of her office, she has in-
spired nobler views of life, and has won the
love and confidence of her sisters, who will fol-
low her with their earnest prayers to her
new home.
	Resolved, That we present a copy of these
resolutions to our President, and that a copy
be sent to the Exponent for publication, and
the same be spread upon our records.
				Respectfully,
					R. B. CRANDAL.


﻿ITEMS FROM MANASSA COLORADO

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We Saints in this valley are enjoying good health,
with few exceptions. We have had a very agreeable
winter, and at present it is delightful weather, almost
like summer, and I think it will not be long before we
shall begin planting gardens, crops, etc. We have also
had a good feast upon the things pertaining to our re-
ligion. Apostle B. Young and H. J. Grant have paid
us a visit and held several meetings, which were crowd-
ed to overflowing, our meeting house not being large
enough to hold the anxious crowds who came to hear
them.
	Almost four years ago, the first meeting I attended in
this place, was held under a shed, there being only
about a half a dozen small houses here then. The
scene is changed now. We have plenty of good, com-
fortable houses, although not very nice; a comfortable
log meeting house, though it is already too small, es-
pecially at conference times. We have a most credit-
able school house, which, I believe, cost about $1,400,
nicely furnished with patent desks, blackboards, maps,
and a first-class school teacher.
	New houses are constantly going up on every hand.
It seems, sometimes, as though we have many disad-
vantages to contend with, but yet the work goes on;
emigration still comes in at the proper times.
	Bro. John Morgan is greatly beloved by the people of
this place, he having been the messenger to bring them
the glad tidings of salvation in their native lands.
	When I read the papers and see the the great judg-
ments that are being poured out upon the wicked, I
think that we as a people should be very thankful that
we are blessed with the light of the Gospel, that we are
here in a place of safety, even if we are obliged to pass
through the hardships incident to settling a new coun-
try, and I believe the majority of the Saints here feel
the same. There are but few who smoke or chew tobac-
co, or use hot drinks. There have been but few cases of
sickness during the winter, and diphtheria is not known.
The water here is of the very best quality; it is so soft
and clear it requires no lye, and but little soap to wash
with. One lady who came here on a visit was so de
lighted with the water that she carried a canteen of it
about 700 miles to show it to her husband and child-
ren.
	I suppose you are anxious to hear from our societies.
Our Young Ladies' Association is progressing favorably;
we hold regular weekly meetings, and the girls are all
interested and willing to learn all they can. We have
thirty-two members enrolled, most all of them bright,
rosy-faced girls, full of life, and bid fair to become use-
ful handmaidens in the Kingdom of God. The Relief
Society is also progressing. There are many good,
faithful sisters here, who are willing to do their duties
at all times,
	Ever wishing success to you, and all those who are
laboring for the welfare of Zion,
			I remain, as ever, your sister,
							SAMANTHA T. BOICK


ITEMS FROM OAKLEY.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I thought, perhaps, a few lines from this out of the
way place might find space in your valuable paper, as I
feel interested with my sisters who are laboring in the
cause of Zion.
	We are located on Goose Creek, a tributary of Snake
River, and have a thriving settlement. A great many
good Latter-day Saints live here. The health of the
people is good. We have had some very cold weather
this last winter, but very little snow in the valley.
	We had a Relief Society organized here Sept. 24th, 1882,
by Apostles Lyman and Smith, with the following
named officers: Sarah A. Snedaker, President; Louisa
Haight and Janett Whittle, Counselors: Prescilla Wor-
thington, Secretary; Breta Felt Treasurer.
	We are striving to do the best we can in our isolated
condition. By the proceeds of a picnic party, given by
the Relief Society, and other donations, we have been
able to send twenty-five dollars to the Logan Tem-
ple.
	Last spring the bretheren very kindly donated land,
and also planted it with grain. We have 200 bushels
of wheat on hand, which is but a little, but we all
have to creep before we can walk. We are trying to be
alive to our duties as Latter-day Saints.
	Every praying for the success of the EXPONENT, I re-
main, your sister in the Gospel of peace,
								LOUISA HAIGHT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 187


LINES ON GATHERING SOME
MARCH VIOLETS.

"violets dim,
But sweeter than the lids of Juno's eyes,
Or Cytherea's breath."—WINTET'S TALE.

Sweet firstlings of the early spring
Sad thoughts and strange to me you bring;
	Yet you speak of happy hours,
When hopes were bright and times were
And life seemed but a laughing May,
	The world a world of flowers,
When, yet by sorrow undefiled,
I gathered you! a merry child.

But, as I gaze upon you now,
With sinking heart and clouded brow,
	Your charms are all unnoted;
I fondly deemed your witching spell
Would make me love what once so well
	I loved with love devoted;
My hope was, through your magic art,
Sad care would from my soul depart.

Vain hope! And yet the fault is mine.
Flow'rs bloom and stars as brightly shine
	As when I was a boy;
'Tis I myself alone have changed,
'Tis I have from my soul estranged
	The things I could enjoy,
Ere, at the world's vile altar kneeling,
I sacrificed each purer feeling.

Ah, bitter is the price, in truth,
They pay who pass their later youth
	In vain and worldly strife,
Who lose in hope of honor's prize,
The happiness that only lies
	In peaceful, stilly life—
To that prefer the stormy deep
Where 'wild'ring tempests ever sweep.

Sweet flow'rs, whose hue cerulean vies
With the deep hue of seraph-eyes
	That gaze upon the bowers
Where hope and joy eternal bloom
And far around is shed perfume
	From everlasting flowers,
Sad thoughts and strange to me you bring,
Blest firstlings of the dawning spring.
										A. P.
								FAMILY HERALD.


[Column 1]
TO THE GIRLS.

	If I may be permitted to do so I would like
through the medium of our valuable paper, to
say a few words to the daughters, my sisters, in
Zion.
	The Lord has stirctly commanded His people
to follow Him, and He has from time to time
delivered His will and given His commands to
them through His servants, and at no time
have those who have been faithful in keeping
these commandments failed to receive His
promised blessings. He has called upon His
people to come out from Babylon and throw off
her yoke by ridding themselves of her foolish
customs and evil ways. By adhering to these
commands the Saints have become a blessed
people, one that the whole world envy because
of their blessings; they are envied and hated
because of the strength and unity which their
lives of meekness, humbleness and purity have
given them. The expressed will and desire of
our Heavenly Father is, that the daughters of
Zion shall live lives of purity and virtue, and
that they shall have the fear of God continu-
ally in their hearts, that thereby they may cul-
tivate a love for those principles by which they
are to be the honored instruments in helping to
redeem the world from the awful sin that has
emanated from Babylon and is oppressing their
kind, and holding virtue and innocence as in a
chain of iron. The love that God bears the
daughters of Zion, and the dislike He has for
the abominations of Babylon is manifest in
this, that He commands the former to not pat-
tern after the latter in any way; tells them not

[Column 2]
to go after them in their ways at all; thus indi-
cating that He will appoint the way of His
people in everything.
	Now the world would have us believe that
this is servility to be dictated by the voice of
the Lord, and many people, through the
promptings of Satan, cry out to us of danger
to frighten us, so that we may fall from that
rock upon which our kind Father has in His
mercy so firmly placed us, and that we may
not, as silly children, be tempted to leave this
rock of safety, He commands us to cut assun-
der every tie that binds us to the outside world
that we may be entirely free from it.
	Now we know that our Father is displeased
when He sees His daughters, the "fair ones of
Israel," upon whom he has bestowed such ten-
der care and upon whom He delights to bes-
tow His most choice blessings, aping the fash-
ions and following the customs of heathen
Christendom, and one of the many foolish ones
of the latter is the boring or piercing of the
ears for the purpose of suspending an ear-ring
therein, which ancient and heathenish custom
it is to be regretted, has not yet been laid aside
by many of the women of Zion, The Prophet
Isaiah in mentioning the abominations for
which the daughters of Zion should be con-
demned by the Lord numbers among them the
ear-jewel, or ear-ring, and says that He, the
Lord, will take them away with a sore cursing.
Now we know that He cannot look with pleas-
ure on the act of wilfully mutilating our bod-
ies in this manner. Therefore I cannot see how
parents can excuse themselves into willingly
allow their daughters to inflict upon their bod-
ies this injustice. The extreme folly of this
custom was first impressed upon my mind by a
saying of a very wise girl a few years ago:
	When she was thirteen years old her father
bought a beautiful pair of ear-rings as a birth-
day gift for her; when he presented them to
her she took them and said: "Oh, pa! how I
should love to wear these beautiful things be-
cause they are a gift from you; but you see I
cannot unless I might be allowed to wear them
fastened to strings tied round my ears, for
there are no holes in my ears for them you see."
"Why, my child," said her father, "are you not
brave enough to have your ears pierced for
them?" "No," she said, "I should not like to
have holes put in my ears unless I knew they
would grow up again before I die; and I don't
think they would do that." In answer to her
father's question as to why she would not like
to have holes in her ears when she died, she
said, "If, when our bodies are resurrected, they
are just as they were when we laid them down,
I, if I have holes in my ears when I am bur-
ied, will also have them there when I am res-
urrected; and if our Father should ask me
there why I had this mark or brand on my
ears, I should be so ashamed to confess to Him
that I had it put there for the purpose of
wearing an ear-ring; and pa, I think He would
blame me for defacing the body which He gave
me. I think if the Lord wished me to wear
ear-rings He would have put holes in my ears
for that purpose." The father was convinced
and acknowledged the correctness of his little
daughter's judgment. A present of a book
was substituted in place of the ear-rings, and
at this time the little girl, now a woman grown,
is still a firm advocate of those principles
which animated her when a child to stand to
truth and reason.
	I think if the parents of the children of the
Latter-day Saints would think seriously upon
this subject they would endeavor to dissuade
their daughters from following this long time
custom of mutilating their bodies in this man-
ner, for believe me the time will come when
every woman who carries this mark in her ears
will be ashamed to confess that it is the brand
showing to what extent she was subject to the
pride and vanity that was upon the earth while

[Column 3]
she was tabernacled there. A love of the beau-
tiful and ornamental is natural to most women,
and it is right they should make themselves
neat and attractive when it can be done with-
out infringing upon nature, but it is not right
for us to deface or change in any way the work
of our Creator in the human system. We can-
not in any way make better what He has form-
ed.
	It is to be earnestly hoped that the many
plans for reform in dress and customs that
have been given our young may be improved
upon in Zion until there may not be one found
who bears the impress of the style of Babylon.
									M.


THE BUTTER QUESTION.

	As President Cannon was speaking of home
industry, and alluding to imported butter,
thoughts came to my mind how could the evil
be avoided. There is but little good butter to
be obtained, so scarce that when you find it the
price is 40cts. a pound, and the rancid kind
generally 35 cts. Tithing butter can be bought
at 25cts., the standard price all the year round,
and this is all a pound of butter is worth, as
there is a very little of it, and does not go far
in a family to eat, and if necessitated to render
it down for shortening the waste is several
ounces. If we have to take this article into
our stomach on bread or in pastry it engenders
disease and is not fit to feed to pigs. Very lit-
tle home-made lard can be bought, none at all
in summer. And this state of things may be
the case as long as Tom, Dick and Harry make
the butter. If the tithing milk could be gath-
ered by milkmen and churned at a factory and
kept in an ice house until carried to market, we
would have a good article; it could be kept
sweet and made healthy. There should be no-
thing kept in a milkroom but the milk. I was
raised in one of the United States; my father
had but one cow, which gave twelve quarts at
a milking. The milk house was built away
from the dwelling over wet soil, shelves on one
side and green shutters on the shady side to
let in plenty of fresh air, no glass windows, as
they draw the heat (grape or hop vines to run
over it). These shutters could be closed or
opened with a strong cord. Nothing was kept
in this place but the milk. The fresh air would
raise very thick cream and make the sweetest
of butter. The butter which was made from
this cow supplied a large family, besides many
pounds being laid down in the month of May
for the coming winter, and would be as sweet
when brought on the table as when churned.
	Bad butter is a great loss to the community.
Can this be remedied? Good butter is made
here, English salt is used, and every plan has
been tried to keep it sweet, but to no avail,
there is so much mineral in the soil, the air and
salt. Butter exposed to the air, or even a
warm temerature, becomes rancid. Add a lit-
tle salt to the cream when churning, salt the
water a little to wash it in, add a little sugar
salt petre, well pulverized with the salt, mix it
well through, let it stand in a cool place, then
the second time press out all that remains of
the butter milk. This butter packed into an
oak keg or barrel and placed in an ice house
would keep; the larger the quantity pressed to-
the better, as the air is excluded; when you
add a layer sprinkle salt between. The shores
of Bear Lake would be a good location, plenty
of ice, plenty of rock.
	Butter factories would make labor, fat pigs,
and good butter for the market. Farmers
would like to send one or two cows to a good
factory to make their butter on shares. If
milk is kept in a room where bad air is, its na-
ture is to be impregnated with it, and many a
pound of butter is made from foul cream:


188	﻿THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I. East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	MAY 15, 1884.


[Column 1]
LETTER X.

TOUR OF GERMANY.

	One event after another has followed in such
quick succession as to appropriate all my time,
so that I have had no time for letter writing.
	In traveling through Germany most beautiful,
wonderful sights have I beheld, and so much
have I seen that has delighted me that it would
give me much pleasure even briefly to describe
it all, and write a full account of the same, but
this I cannot do, as a full description would fill
whole volumes, for the whole broad Empire of
Germany have I seen, and oh, how quickly and
how happily to me the days have passed, almost
like a long, beautiful dream has it seemed, as the
ruins, the mountains, the forests, the pretty vil-
lages and the grand old cities have each and all
been beheld by my admiring eyes like the
scenes of a gorgeous panorama to gaze at them
for a moment and then pass to something
strange!  I will try to tell you something of the
things which have pleased me most.  We spent
a few hours in Carlsruhe, the capital of the
Grand Duchy of Baden, then went to Heidel-
berg, a visit I shall never forget.  We arrived
there in the evening, and the following morn-
ing we started out early to walk to the Castle.
It was a beautiful spring morning, the air so
fresh and filled with the perfume of the blos-
soming fruit trees, and the songs of birds just
returning from southern homes and rebuilding
their nests in the magnificent trees of Heidel-
berg.  The trees were just adorning themselves
in their green foliage, and all nature was smiling
at its own loveliness.  It made me happier than
ever to have such a bright day for our visit, for
I long had thought and wished for the pleasure 
of visiting these famous old ruins and rambling
among them. 
	The only attraction at Heidelberg is the old
castle, but when one once sees that, he no long-
er wonders that thousands of people travel every
summer to the place only to look at the ruins.
The castle stands on the side of a high moun-
tain which is situated at the edge of the Black
Forest, and from its elevated position presents a
very imposing appearance.  Climbing up the
terraced walks the castle itself is lost to the
sight, but the great garden walls and the tall, 
graceful trees present a charming appearance, 
and partly prepare one for the beautiful scene
awaiting us farther on.  These walls inside of
walls, and the deep most all around show how
strongly the place was fortified, and how safe it
seemed from all intruders; now its boldness and
greatness has departe, and the bare grey walls
are mellowed by the greenest moss, the most
beautiful ivy, the most perfect and delicate
ferns, and the ruins stand as a monument in
memory of past glories, but the most beautiful
monument i have ever seen, so full of tender-
ness, sadness and noble sentiments engraven by
the hand of age in characters more touching
than a chisel ever wrought, in words more sub-
lime than pen ever wrote; the deep lines and
crevices, the broken towers, the mouldering
walls all covered with clinging ivy, which
hangs so gracefully from every side, softening
and brightening the otherwise rude and sombre
walls that there is no went of other ornament
here, for nature has wrought a work more beau-
tiful than man could do.
	The castle overlooks the city and the Neckar
rier; as I gazed at it from the old bridge it im-
pressed me with a feeling of awe and admiration.
Its broken towers and ivy covered ruins tell their
own sad history, such tales of pomp and power, 
of distress and ruin.  They stand like monu-
ments of past glory and the mars and blurs and
cracks and fissures are like engraven histories,
telling the deeds of the kings, princesa nd war-
riors who have dwelt therein.  We strayed from
room to room, from balcony to balcony, from
tower to tower, all was bare, old and broken, yet
an occasional piece of plaster with a faded fres-
coe on, or a broken piece of stone carving told
that once the place had been adorned with ar-
tistic workmanship.  As we strolled through
the first long halls nothing could be seen but
bare walls, low ceilings and an iron grating, 
which enclosed a dark cell; with a shudder at
the thought of the poor unfortunate who had
been imprisoned there, we passed on- through a
large, low archway into the inner court. how 
could we better tell what the past has been--for
on the inner wall still remains some of the beau-
tiful decorations, and this court yard was once 
very grand.
	The plainness of the outside was all for the
sake of having the walls firmer and stronger for
defense, but the inner walls were most magnifi-
cently ornamented, and the flowers and foun-
tains were very tastefully arranged.  On the left
of the palace, and it still possesses many of its
features of elegance.  It is said to have been one
of the finest places of architecture in the world. 
We first entered this part and from throne
room to cooking apartments wandered, and
found now no difference; all had assumed the
same homely aspect.  The walls are all very
thick, in some parts twenty-seven feet, and the
halls and passages are so narrow and crooked
that one might always feel safe though an one
my were without trying to gain entrance; but
with all its strength and plans for defense this
mighty castle was taken by the French and
kept by them from some time.  The tall tower of
this otto Heinrich's bau was twice struck by
lightning, and what an enemy could not do to
destroy it the elements did. When the French
were compelled to leave the castle they tried to
destroy it by exploding powder but so well is the
place built that little harm was done by even
that. The old tower at the back, called the blown
up tower, was parted, and half lies in the moat
below, while half still stands in its old place in 
the wall. 
	This is the prettiest and most picturesque part 
of the castle, the ivy grows more luxuriantly
here, and the ferns hang temptingly over the
shattered walls.  We spent a long morning
wandering from tower to cellar, but all is now
the same, a wreck, a ruin.  From some parts of 
the castle most beautiful views can be had of
the queer old city below, the Neckar river with
its boats and fishermen, and hte mountains
skirting the Black Forest.  A part of the castle
is in good preservation and is used for a muse-
um; here are kept old relics of the astle and
pictures of  different princes who lived there,
swords and armour, manuscripts and jewels, 
quite an interesting collection.
	Here are also pictures of a Heidleberg student
named Sand, who drew the fatal number, and
so had to kill Kotzbue, a writer, who had writ-
ten articles displeasing the students.  Young
Sand took leave of his companions and walked
to annheim, where he fulfilled his design, com-
mitting the dreadful deed for which he was af-
terwards beheaded.  We very reluctantly left
the castle after we had viewd it from every pos-
sible way.
	There seemed to be a certain charmior fascina
tion about the place which made me long to lin-
ger, but we had to leave for Manheim in the
afternoon, and so slowly and thoughtfully wend-
ed our way down the pretty paths towards the
city.
	In Mannheim Brother Lyman met us at the
station and took us to the home of a Brother
Pfost, where we had dinner and met several
of our Church members.  In Mannheim and
Ludwigshafen we have quite a large branch,
and Brother Lyman is working so well with 
them. We stayed three days, visiting all the
time among the Saints, most of them are hard
working people, but they made us so welcome, 
and seemed delighted to see us.  There is no
liberty for holding meetings, and it seemed very
sad to see so many souls thirsting for knowledge
and longing for the privilge of worshipping God
in the proper way.
	The Rhine divides the two cities, Mannheim
and Ludwigshafen, but they are connected by a 
fine iron bridge, over which both the train and
the street cars run; at these places the people
suffered much at the time of the Rhine mun-
dation, and one of our brethren had his home
swept entirely away.  Sister Postel who enter-
tained us very nicelyand has done so much to-
wards entertaining the Elders, died since we
were there.  She was a very sweet woman, and
I guess many of our missionaries will long re-
member her for the kindness she has shown
them.  The walls of her home were decorated
with the pictures of the different missionaries
who had been there, and among them I saw
Rulon's and Abram's, others that I knew and
several whose faces were not familiar, but whose
names were.  The sisters came to the house
where we had stayed when we were leaving to
bid us good-bye, and they gave me a beautiful
bouquet of flowers and seemed so sorry to have
us leave. 
	We went from there to Frankfort on the Main.This city is one of the first in Germany, noted
principally for its extensive commerce.  It con-
tains many large and splendid stores, and the
narrowest and crookedest streets.  Here is the
home of the Baron Rothschild, his office is on 
the Juden Strausse, or street of the Jews, an
old narrow and dirty street said to have once
been very picturesque, and is still one of the
sights of the city.  In this street most of the
Jews lived, and on public days and holidays
they were locked in this street and not allowed
to go into any other part of the city; but they
thrived and flourished, nevertheless, and now
own the first stores and houses in the city; The
Rothschild family were among these persecuted
Jews.
	This city was the birthplace of Goethe, and all
tourists visit his old home; there in an open 
square stands a large monument of Goethe,
which is very fine.  The nicest building in the city
is the Opera House, it is built in the style of the 
Grand opera at Paris.  Here we heard Wagner's 
deed, and I was so glad to have an opportunity
of hearing it.  Between the acts we walked
through the grand promenades and into the res-
taurants; such gorgeous rooms and staircases,


[Column 1]
and the ladies were most beautifully dressed,
but Jewesess always are finely clad, and most of
the audience were of that race. 
	At Berlin we went through the Berlin Muse-
um, the pride of the city. I enjoyed the sights 
in that famous city very much. At Dresden I 
spent a most glorious day among the sublime
paintings of the Dresden gallery. We arrived
there on the evening of the fifth of April, and 
saw a fine historical play in the theatre; in the 
morning we visited the castle, and were shown 
through the Green Vault, where the finest dis-
play of jewels and works of art in the world are 
exhibited. I was much interested, and would 
have been still more so had not our guide inci-
dentally remarked that Raphael's Sistine Ma-
donna was covered and could not at present be
seen. My disappointment was too great for
words, and my eyes kept filling with tears to
think that I had come so far and now right in 
the city with this wonderful work of the great
Raphael and must be denied the pleasure of see-
ing it.	*	*	I waited to pass through al
the beautiful rooms and looked most admiringly
at the great diamonds which August the Strong
used to wear for coat and vest buttons; the larg-
est green diamond in the world; and oh such
cases of emeralds, sapphires, rubies, and three
cases of diamonds alone in the most beautiful 
settings, sword handles, hat plumes, belt buc-
kles, and all sorts of ornaments. When we had 
finished looking at them we hastened to the gal-
lery and passed through the different rooms, in 
search of this treasure which we feared more
and more we could not see, for repairing and 
cleaning was going on all around, and we went 
through many empty rooms. At last the room 
was reached, and I entered almost trembling,
for the walls in front were bare, but turning
round the beautiful face of the Madonna greeted
me.
	I almost wept now with delight, and we stood
silently and earnestly gazing upon this most 
touching and eloquent picture. It seemed most

[Column 2]
could surpass it, if indeed it is equalled. Van-
derwerff's Expulsion of Hagar and Ishmael is 
very lovely and pleased me greatly. There are 
quite a number of Vanderwerff's pictures, an
all are said to have once been worth thei
weight in gold. Of the modern masters, De
freggio's pictures are most pleasing, still there
are many others very fine, among them a life
size picture of Napoleon in his royal robes; this
was presented to the King of Saxony by Napo-
leon himself, and is a work of great beauty. 
	At Leinz'g we saw some interesting histori-
cal places. It was where the great battle of na-
tions was fought, and the French under Napo-
leon were defeated and driven from the city. A
stone on an elevation some few miles out from 
the city marks the place where Napoleon stood
watching the movements of the battle. 
	Last night we took supper in "Auerbach's
Keller," the old place where Ooethe first re-
ceived ideas for his Faust. The city of Leipzig
is not so very beautiful, every thing is so old
and dingy, but it is, nevertheless, most interest-
ing for many reasons, principally for having
been the birthplace of so many of Germany's
greatest men. Wagner was born here, Schiller, 
Goethe, Boch and Mozart all lived here many
years. One of the finest musical conservatories
in Germany is here, and the supreme law courts
of the nation are also at Leipzig. How strange
it seems that I should be visiting the birthplaces
and homes of these great poets and musicians. 
Each place we go to there is some historical as-
sociation connected with it to render interest
and attraction, and, oh, I am so delighted with 
it all. 
	Eisenach is a quiet little city, and its chief
attraction is the castle of Wartburg; it is also
the birthplace of Bach, the musician, and the 
early home of Luther; the home is still shown 
where he lived while attending school here. I 
spent a pleasant afternoon visiting the castle
and looking at the Therringian forest from its 
tower. 
In my next I will give you the description of 

[Column 3]
ter-day Saints, and involves much which is not
understood by the outside world. President
Taylor and  a party of brethren and sisters went
up on Wednesday morning, the 14th, that pre-
liminary preparations might be made. The oc-
casion of the dedication will be one of rejoicing, 
as it opens up another channel whereby the 
living may act in holy ordinances, not only for 
themselves, but those who have already passed
into the spirit world. 
The present number of the paper closes the 
twilfth volume of th EXPONENT. As the years
have rolled by the paper has gradually increased
in popularity and influence, as well as in its sub-
scription list. During the past year and a half
some serious difficulties have opposed the finan-
cial interests of the paper. In January, 1883,
the bursting of the water pipes in the Council
Houee destroyed the Editorial Office and much 
of the furniture, as well as valuable books and
papers to a considerable amount. In June the 
fire that destroyed the Council House destroyed
all except the desk containing books and a few 
other things, we cannot estimate the loss at less
than three hundred and fifty dollars, besides
many of the things being such as could not be
replaced. However, we hope to do something
towards making the EXPONENT more interesting
in its appeara ce, at least, as it enters upon its 
"teens." There has never been a time when so
many sample copies were sent for from all parts 
of the civilized world, as there has been during
the past few months. The question now agitat-
ing the  public mind in regard to Mormon wom
en and their views of marriage have awakened
many who desire to ascertain facts for them-
selves. Let Mormon women speak for them-
selves and give their own views upon all the 
subjects that interest the community at large,
and as far as is practical discuss the popular 
questions of the day. By assisting to awaken
thought, arousing dormant energies, enlighten-
ment often comes, and there is no better medi-
um for the growth and improvement than the 
press. Mormon women are much talked of then


will be by all minds of the same calibre as his
own. It is really refreshing to read something
from an intelligent, well-educated gentleman,
that has in its views liberality, justice and com-
mon sense–all of which are exemplified in his
"new view of Mormonism," its Federal rulers,
their administration, and other phenomana.
	At this point I took up the pamphlet that lay
by me, thinking I; would make a few extracts,
but it is all so good and true I found I must ex-
tract the whole if I began, so I will only pray
that it may have a wide circulation, that the
prejudices of its readers may be removed as were
those of the gentlemanly writer of "An English
view of the case."
						HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City, May 5th, 1884.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 189


190	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
TWO GREAT POWERS.

	Is it a reality that there are two great pow-
ers in the land, called good and evil? If you
ask the young people this question the reply
very often is, "I do not realize any great power
aside from that we hold within ourselves to do
good or evil just as we choose to do." Yes, we
have this power also, our own agency, but
what inspires our acts and propels our ener-
gies? The answer is, circumstances by which
we are surrounded. Yes, truly, yet how differ-
ently people view these circumstances. You
may say this cause is the difference in our or-
ganization; yet we are all made in the image of
the Deity, and partake of His attributes. For
instance, we have the faculty to love the beau-
ties of nature; we are told we cannot love any-
thing we do not admire. Accordingly, that
which has attained perfection is the object of
love and admiration. How important, then, is
the fact that we should learn those rules of
action which will enable us to arrive at perfec-
tion. Since God is our Father we want to be
like Him; will not He be well pleased to see us
make an effort in this direction?
	We are told that two brothers claim to gov-
ern this world, and to teach us how to become
like God, our Father. The first lesson that we
have any written account of was given in the
Garden of Eden, where Lucifer told our first
parents they would not surely die, but become
as gods, knowing good and evil. How quickly
did our mother Eve grasp the idea of gaining
that eminence of greatness, even at the dis-
pleasure of her Father, and of breaking His
laws. This we will call the spirit of the world;
to-day they laugh at the idea of believing that
which you hear, unless you know in other ways
some portion to be true.
	Deception is practiced to the extent that the
world is ripening in greatness. Greatness in
what? Great in practical lessons which Lucifer
gives. Then to be a man, and show yourself
such, is to be putting on your dignity and
showing your power to bring all things in sub-
jection to your will. This is god-like indeed!
Far from it! You have out-lived the lessons
taught you in childhood, which were love and
obedience. These would bring peace to your
bosom and to the heart humility; but now you
must love to get gain; to amass wealth. The
greater your attainments in this direction the
more important and god-like you feel that you
are. The world bows to these great men; but
suppose some one claims a portion of this
wealth, what then? You must not allow it,
you must stop that; if you are rich and great
you can stop almost anything. Some even go
so far as to have those put to death who are in
their way; yes, stop the breath—what! then the
germ of the Deity is destroyed? You no long
er enjoy your wealth. How then? The wine
cup will soothe and comfort you. You indulge
and lose your balance, until you find your-
self below the brute beast, which you once
ruled over in pride.

[Column 2]
	How different the lessons given by our elder
brother, the Savior of the world. The first
lesson is to love God, our Father, with all our
might, mind and strength. We love this beau-
tiful world with all its varieties of animal veg-
etable and mineral wealth; also the starry
heavens, as the workmanship of His hands.
And as we study the laws which govern them
how we admire the intelligence of the great De-
signer of the stupendous whole. Everything
seems to move in strict obedience to His laws
and shall man, who is made in His own image,
do less? But you ask, what are the laws given
to men?
	We learn that the laws which the Savior
taught were those that will bring us to perfec-
tion; for He says, "Be ye perfect, even as your
Father in heaven is perfect." You ask, how
can we do this? Well, let us consider what
those laws are. The first thing, being an attri-
bute of the Diety, is love, even that which is
pure and undefiled, and therefore genuine, be-
cause it requires us to be just to our fellows,
also true, upright and honorable, faithful to
our trust, loving others as ourselves. When we
have attained to all these virtues we shall de-
light in doing good to all, and accordingly be
beloved by all who are thus striving to live
pure lives; for this we have merited. Such a
class of people will become like the good shep-
herd whose sheep know his voice and follow
him. We do not see sheep led by the voice of
the shepherd in these days as in former
Scriptural times. They are driven by a dog and
a stick.
	We are of the earth earthy, and this love is
not taught by the spirit of the world; but
those who love and adhere to the teachings of
our Savior will find that this spirit will draw
out and develop every faculty of the soul.
Then one is enabled to give everything its
proper value, and also its proper place
This being the case I would ask, which of the
two great powers is the greatest, the one which
cultivates depravity, the other which teaches
us to be upright and honest, and live according
to true principles? Which is most god-like? I
leave this for yourselves to answer. I will add,
however, that it is quite necessary to learn both
lessons. We are in the world; we partake of
its spirit; we must learn these lessons because
these kind of people we must deal with. Ac-
cordingly this is an important lesson. But
this alone is not sufficient. Until we learn the
lessons taught by the Savior of the world, we
will never have the charity which St. Paul
speaks of when he says, "Though I give all my
goods to feed the poor, and my body to be
burned, and have not charity it profiteth me
nothing." What kind of charity is this? It is
the love of Christ; because He knew all the
lessons Lucifer would give, and the ordeal we
are passing through. Accordingly He has
charity for all our weaknesses, when the heart
is right and the motives pure.
	Now since we learn the spirit of the world
so readily, ought not we to learn the spirit of
the Savior equally well? This was the design
of our parents, that we learn both good and
evil. When we have accomplished both, then
we shall be ready for a higher grade of intel-
ligence, or existence, as you may choose to call
it. And since we do not properly appreciate
things, only by contrast, we shall find these two
lessons are very important ones.
						M. E. KIMBALL.
	P.S. Written for my Sabbath School class,
with whom I have not been able to meet the
past winter because of poor health.
								M. E. K.


Praise undeserved is satire in disguise.--
-Broadhurst.


﻿PRIMARY MEETING.
	Fist Semi Annual meeting of the Fifth
Ward Primary Association since its organiza-
tion, held April 30th 1884, in the Fifth Ward
school house, Sister E. Clarke, President, pres-
iding.  There were on the stand, the President
and her Counselors, the Bishop of the ward,
Brother Clarke and Brother          ; also Sisters
E. S. Clawson, P. L. Kimball, E. B. Fergu-
son and E. Howard, visitors.  There were about
100 children present, and many of the parents.
Opened by singing "In our Lovely Deseret,"
prayer by Bishop Brimley, singing, "Beautiful
Day."  Roll called and minutes read by the
Secretary.
	President Clarke made a few remarks, intro-
ducing the following programme: Dialogue by
Allie Buchanan and Beatrice Ricketts; Recita-
tion by Allie Cowan; Song by  E. Pettit; Song by
the children, "Dare to do Right;" Organ solo,
lizzie Marsden; Duet by Maggie and Berthinia
Simpson; Reading by Edwin pettit; Song by
the children, "Only an Armor-bearer;" Recita-
tion by Willie Brimley; Reading from the Bi-
ble by George Luker; Dialogue by Janet Free-
bairn and Clara Gilby; Duet by Lizzie Brown
and Lizzie Marsden; Duet by Lizzie Palmer
and Emily Durrens.  Report for the half year
ending March 22nd, 1884, read by the Secre-
tary.
	Remarks by Sister Clawson; was much
pleased with the conduct and doings of the
children; felt gratified at the excellent pro-
gramme, and thought the parents must feel
pleased at hearing the little ones speak up so
nicely and repeat their pieces so correctly--
thought the little missionaries had done well in
going round the ward to gather donations in
order to purchase books-- the children had
gathered $6.75 for that purpose.  If you do not
need all the money now for books, you will find
it nice to have some in the treasury.  Prayed
God would bless them with health and wis-
dom, and also their President and her Coun-
selors.
	Sister Presendia L. Kimball said she was
much gratified to meet with these dear child-
ren.  Hoped they would remember the Jesus
said "suffer little children to come unto me."
Thought the children looked happy, as if they
enjoyed the Spirit of God. Told the children
to be honest, truthful, kind to the aged, helpful
to their parents, and obedient to their presi-
dent.  Spoke on the word of wisdom--that
she had kept it even when she was not a Mor-
mon.  Hoped the children would keep the
Word of Wisdom and grow in grace and in
wisdom that they might please God and do
much good in the world.
	Sister E. B. Ferguson said she felt pleased
to meet with the children of the Fifth Ward P.
A. again, and thought they had made a great im-
provement since her last visit; hoped they
would continue to improve every week until
they were as perfect as they could be in the
flesh.  Thought the children of this day and
age were greatly blessed in having the fulness
of the everlasting Gospel preached to them.
Asked if they knew who was the first Prophet
in this last dispensation.  Answer, Joseph
Smith. Told them that Sister Kimball who
had just spoken to them was his wife, and had
heard him preach and teach the things of the
kingdom of God while he was living here on
earth.  Asked the children if they remembered
the revelation God gave for children.  Answer,
Honor thy father and thy mother.  Hoped the
children would remember that this command-
ment was given unto them, and endeavor to
keep it that they might recieve the fulfilment
of the promise and recieve a celestial inheri-
tance in the Kingdom of God.
	Sister E. Howard said this was the second
time that she had met with the children of this


Association; saw great improvement in their or-
der and pieces since her last visit. Was glad
to hear the children speak up so loud that ev-
eryone could hear. Wanted the children al-
ways to lift up their hearts to God that He
would bless them in all they endeavored to do.
When they rise in the morning, when they go
to school, when they are at play, say in their 
hearts, "Father, bless me." Hoped the children
would cultivate order and punctuality; when
they are in meeting pay attention to the speak-
er and don't turn their heads around to look at
everybody coming in. Hoped the children
would not be revengeful, but do good for evil.
Was pleased to hear the boys sing as well as the
girls. Prayed that God would bless them all.
	Bishop Brimley said he was pleased with the 
order and also with the programme, though it 
was a little lengthy. Suggested that it would
be very nice for the same programme to be pre-
sented some Sunday evening that the adults of 
the whole ward might become acquainted with
the P.A. Said he received the Gospel from
Brother Heber C. Kimball, and when he
thought of the joy with which he used to hear
the Elders speak he had many sweet reflec-
tions. Felt to bless the children, and all who
took and interest in the youth of Zion.
	President Clarke said that the meeting had
been rather lengthy, but she felt to thank the
sisters for coming. Was proud of the children
and hoped that all who thought that the child-
ren in the P. A. did not learn anything would
come to one meeting then she thought they
would change their minds.
	Programme for next meeting read by secre-
tary. Meeting adjourned for six months, to
October 29th, 1884. Singing, "Hope of Isra-
el." Dismissed by Brother Clark.
	E. B. FURGUSON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PRIMARY ENTERTAINMENT.
	The Primary Association of Plain City gave
an entertainment in the school house of that
place on the evening of April 18th, 1884. Af-
ter the usual opening exercises were over the
remainder of'the evening was spent in singing
songs, rendering recitations and dialogues.
Some of the most interesting exercises were
two recitations, entitled, “Don’t run in debt,”
and “Love, drink, and debt.” Also two dia-
logues, one entitled, “Brandy Drops,” and the
other representing a discourse between a Mor-
mon Elder, and. a minister. The evening’s en-
tertainment was brought to a close by the per-
formance of a short drama, entitled “Boots at
the Swan.” Altogether it was a pleasing af-
fair, and credit is due to those who arranged it.
It was gotten up for the purpose of helping a
little child to emigrate from the old country to
Utah
	The admission being small we were not able
to clear more than $10.50. We have very in-
teresting meetings, and have an average atten-
dance of about forty.
		SUSANNAH ROBINSON, President. 
		JOSEPHINE IPSON, Secretary.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.
OGDEN Y. L. M. I. A.
	Minutes of a special meeting of the Y. L.
M. I. A. of the Second Ward, opened by sing-
ing, "Hail to the brightness of Zion's glad
morning." Prayer by Bishop R. Mc.Quarrie,
singing “Oh ye mountains high." Minutes of
March 3rd read and approved.
	President Emily S. Richards arose and
stated the object, said they could not proceed
with the business of the meeting until she had
offered her resignation as President of the as-
sociation, which was her purpose on account of
being called to reside in Salt Lake City; did
not feel like saying much, could truly say she
loved all the young sisters of the association,
and very highly respected all with whom she
had been associated in Ogden, thought a
change sometimes did good in all organizations
and as this one would bring some of the young
sisters into more responsible positions, trusted
it would be for the best good of all. Prayed
for the welfare of the association, and that each
officer would be able to perform her part well
	Bishop Mc.Quarrie regretted very much to
have Sister Emily leave us, but we could not
control these things. No one would miss Bro.
and Sister Richards more than he would, they
were strong props in the second ward. When
means were wanted for any purpose he only
had to name it and they responded willingly to
the call. We have a vacancy occasioned by
the resignation of Sister Richards, and he did
not feel capable to select another President of
his own judgment, but always made such
things a matter of prayer. There are many in
the association who could fill the office in a
creditable manner to themselves and to the sat-
isfaction of the members, but only one could
hold it at a time.
	The following officers were then nominated
and unanimously sustained: Sister Mary A.
Riley, President; Letitia Williams and Mary
Mc.Quarrie, Counselors; Emily J. Newman,
Secretary; Annie L. Newman and Elizabeth
Riley Assistant Secretaries; Christiana Bel-
nap, Treasurer; and Sister Laura Gibbs, Assis-
tant.
	President Sarah Henick followed with some
excellent remarks. We live in a time when it
requires all our energies to keep the command-
ments of God. Urged the young sisters to in-
form their minds; as they knew not how soon
they might be called upon to fill responsible
positions.  The Lord knows we are weak and
frail, and is very merciful to us, and will aid us
if we desire to do right and gain wisdom by
studying the Scriptures. Referred to her la-
bors with Sister Richards, and said the more
she was in her company and the more intimate-
ly she became acquainted with Sister Emily so
also did her love and respect increase for her,
and she regretted very much to be obliged to
part with her. Prayed that the blessings of the
Lord would attend her wherever she might be
called to reside.
	Sister Josephine West felt interested in the
work of improvement, and especially so in the
young ladies, of the second ward; knew they
loved their president dearly, and assured them
that in return they had her warmest affec-
tions; and hoped if they had been benefit-
ted by her counsel that they would remember
it and treasure it up. Urged the new officers
to magnify their callings, and prayed for their
future success—it they felt unequal to the task
to remember the Lord takes the weak things
of  the earth to accomplish great purposes.
	After Sister Richards had mentioned several 
items of business connected with her past la-
bors, the meeting was adjourned to meet Mon-
day, April 14th- Closing hymn, “Lord, dis-
miss us with thy blessing.” Benediction by 
Bishop Mc.Quarrie. 
			ELILY P. NEWMAN, 
					Secretary.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Deliberate with caution, but act with decis-
ion, and yield with gracefulness, or oppose
with firmness.

	Whoever strikes hard must prepare for the
rebounder.  If we criticise, we must not wince
when we are criticised.

	Do you want to know the man against whom
you have the most reason to guard yourself?
Your looking-glass will give you a very fair
likeness of his face. -Whately


The way to fill a large sphere is to glorify a
small one.  There is no large sphere; you are
your sphere; the man regenerate, and consecra-
ted is the lordliest thing on earth, because he
makes himself so.—Fdward Braislin.

	Before we can really lift up other hands,
our own must have been lifted up by His good
Spirit; and our own feeble knees must have
been confirmed, by much bowing at His foot-
stool.—F.R. Havergal.

	"H. H.” has just completed the first long
story of which she has acknowledged the au-
thorship.  The story takes it name from the
heroine,“Ramona." The scene is laid in
Southern California, in the Early days of Amer-
ican settlement, and is said to abound in pas-
sages of rare and beautiful description, as well
as in elements of great pathetic and tragic in-
terest.
	Rev. Phebe A. Hanaford, after ten years of
earnest labor and no little self-sacrifice in Jer-
sey city, has resigned her position as pastor of
the Second Universalist Church, and will prob-
ably remove to the beautiful City of Elms,
which she left ten years ago.  She will preach
in New Haven, Conn., on May l1, in the new
and tasteful edifice of the Second Universalist
Church.


ABOUT EATING.

	The following suggestions from a diet list,
such as each patient under treatment in the
Sanatorium receives from his physician, may be
of service to those who are trying to pursue the
right way at home.
	Take no food whatever—fruit included—
except at meal times.  Eat slowly, and masti-
cate all food thoroughly.
	Ten minutes more at meals may save a fit o
indigestion.  Drink sparingly: never a glass of
very cold or very hot liquid.  A swallow or
two of water, just before leaving the table,
permissible; but neither hot nor cold water
should be drunk freely within a half hour be-
fore or an half hour after meals.
	Good digestion depends largely upon mental
conditions and influences.  It is promoted by
light conversation and gentle exercise, but re-
tarded by severe bodily or mental labor; study
therefore to keep free from all mental or emo-
tional excitement, before, during, and after
meals, and avoid all fatiguing exercise imme-
ditely before or within an hour after eating.
	Choose only pleasant topics for conversation
while at table.The discussion there of diseases
is especially harmful and annoying, to say no-
thing of being inconsistent with good breed-
ing.  Equally ill timed and injurious are all
arguments and discussions at table concerning
the relative value of different articles of food.
	Bear in mind that it is possible to study
your diet too closely, and to do great harm
thereby.  Avoid any tendency to count each
mouthful of food, constantly to study the un-
pleasant effects produced by the different arti-
cles you have eaten, or to let your mind con-
tinually dwell on what you ought to eat and
what you ought not to eat.  Men, as a rule,
eat too much; women too little.
				The Laws of Life.


DEATH OF SISTER EARL.

	Lois Caroline Owen was born Jan. 8th, 1818, Town of
Milton, Benningtion Co., Vermont. Moved with her
parents to Illinois 1826. Recieved the Gospel the first
time she heard it preached; was baptized by Sylvester
II, Earle 1838, whom she married Jan 28, 1839. They
gathered with the body of the Church, and shared in the
mobbings and drivings of the Saints, were with them
when expelled from Nauvoo: and shared in the hard-
ship of the journey to Winter Quarters, where she


took care of her three children, while her husband ac-
companied the pioneers to hunt a resting place for the
Saints of God, to which she came in 1848.  Remained in
Salt Lake City until 1861, when they moved to South-
ern Utah, settling in Pine Valley.
   Sister Earl was appointed President of the Relief So-
ciety of that place, which position she faithfully filled
as long as her health would permit.  Her deeds of ben-
evolence, self sacrifice, and integrity to the principles 
of the Gospel will ever furnish a pleasing thought to
those who cherish her memory.  She was the mother of 
ten children, had passed through a great deal of sick-
ness and trouble, having buried her husband and six
of her children.
   During the last few years of her life her health was
gradually declining, until she was prostrated, in which 
condition she lingered thirteen months; at times her
suffering being intense, until the 9th of March, 1884,
when she quietly passed off with a peaceful smile,
characteristic of her former life.  She leaves four child-
ren, several grandchildren, and a host of friends to
mourn her departure.					COM.
   Bunkerville, April 23rd, 1884.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
OBITUARY. 

	We are again called upon to record the death of an-
other beloved sister and friend.
	Alice Walker, wife of James J. Walker, departed this
life March 5th, 1884, at Kaysville, Davis Co., Utah. De-
ceased was born April 11th, 1844, at Chelltenham,
England. She embraced the Gospel in her youth, and
met with much opposition from her nearest and dearest
friends, which caused her to leave her once happy home
and seek one in the valleys of the mountains, where she
became acquainted with the principle of plural mar-
raige and an understanding for herself that it was true
She entered into that higher order of the Gospel in July
1867. She bore a family of seven sons and one daughter,
saven of whom are living.
	A little over two years ago she gave birth to twin
boys, which brought her very near her death, but
through faith in the ordinances of  priesthood she
was restored to health, which blessing she enjoyed as
long as she nursed her baby twins.
	She did not mingle much in society. To watch over
her family and make herself useful in the home cicle
and attend to her household duties seemed to be her de-
light: she always appeared happy and cheerful in the
place of wife and mother.
	She lived true and faithful to her covenants, and died
in full hope of coming forth in the morning of thefirst
resurrection to greet her husband, and children, and dear
friends who mourn her loss.
	May her children follow in the footsteps of their
mother, is the desire and earnest wish of
							SARAH B. LAYTON.

	DIED at Fish Haven, Bear Lake Co., Idaho, April
25th, 1884, of inflammatory Rheumatism, Huldah Hen-
rietta, beloved wife of J. W. Edwin Stock, in the thirty-
second year of her age. Deceased was born May 1st,
1852, at Provo, Utah, and was the daughter of George
B. and Huldah Teeple of Holden, Utah. She was the
mother of six children, three of whom are living, the
youngest being two weeks old at the time of her death
She leaves a large number of relatives and friends to
mourn her loss.
	Sister Henrietta was President of the Primary,
teacher in  Relief Society, and First Counselor in the
Young Ladies Association of this place, and has al-
ways been a faithful and concientious laborer in the
Church and different societies to which she belonged,
and all who knew her deeply feel her loss. She was a sin-
cere and true friend, a loving and affectionate mother,
and a noble and devoted wife.

       Dearest sister, though your pathway
	    Has been strewn with many thorns
	You have nobly won the victory,
	     To your rest you now have gone.

          Father, children, kindred friends,
	You will miss her lovely form;
	But a bright future lies before us
	At the resurrection morn.

	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
  Resolved, That we extend our deepest sympathy to 
all  members of the family.
  Resolved, That these Resolutions be put upon the re-
cords of the Relief Society, and a copy thereof be sent

[Column 2]
to the family of the deceased, and a copy to the 
EXPONENT.
	FRANCIS HOWELL,
	FRANCIS STOCK, Committee.
	SARAH C[-]OOK, 			ROSETTA STOCK, Secretary.

	It becomes my painful duty to announce the death of
a beloved sister and fellow laborer in the Relief Society
of Samaria, Oneida Co., Idaho. Her death took place
on the 21st of Feb., 1884.
	Hester Edwards, beloved wife of Dr. Edwards, and
daughter of John E. and Ruth Price, who was born Oct.
30th, 1843, in Aberysgyr Parish, Breconshire, South
Wales, was baptized at eight years old; immigrated to
this place March, 1875, after which her husband was
baptized into the Church. She filled the office of a 
teacher in the Relief Society for three years, was ap-
pointed Assistant Secretary, which office she filled
worthily. Her parents were the first settlers of this
settlement. 
	Her funeral procession was the largest of this place;
there were also many from Malad City. She was very
highly respected and beloved by all who knew her.
	She leaves a husband, a daughter fourteen years of
age, a sweet, baby girl three weeks old, relatives, and
host of friends to mourn her loss.
					  MARY D. DAVIS, President.
P.S. Sister Edwards was a subscriber for the EX-
PONENT. 					'M.D.D.

	DIED, at Mt. Pleasant, Sanpete Co., Feb. 6th, 1884,
Mrs. Ellen Lake, beloved wife of Wm. Lake, after being
sick only a few days. Sister Lake was born April 16th,
1840, in Findon, Sussexshire, England. Immigrated to
Utah with her parents about twenty-seven years ago.
She was a firm, faithful Latter-day Saint, a true and
loving wife and a most affectionate mother.
	She was the mother of ten children, nine of whom are
left to mourn their sad loss.  May she rest in peace.
								M.F. C. MORRISON.


SPENCER HOUSE
	We are so often spoken to in reference to a
good house to stop at by strangers visiting our
city, as also by our people from the settlements,
that we take pleasure in recommending the
"Spencer House" as thoroughly respectable,
clean and pleasant. The table has long borne
the reputation of not being excelled; the
grounds are the largest of any hotel grounds in
the city, which, with its extensive lawns and
abundant shade trees, make it pre-eminently a
most inviting resort for tourists- prices are
reasonable.
	This house is situated on Post Office Block,
1st East, between 2nd and 3rd South, Nos. 251
and 252.


For Sale at this Office
BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW
PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos 1 and 2, 	25c per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book, 40c
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol  1		$100
	"	Vol. 2 containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco, 1.25
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth $1.25, in morocco, 1.50
	DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
	Office and residence, Main Street, in the new Mor-
is building, nearly opposite Z.C.M.I.
	SPEACIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETEICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.
MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M.D.
	OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO BUILDING
OFFICE hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence Twelfth
	Ward 2d South Street bet. 5th and 6th Esst.
	Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
	OBSETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communiation between Office and Residence
	ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah
	IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
	GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTUERAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
			MENTS,
	CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
	GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
stock than any house in the west.
	H.S. ELDREDGE Supt.
	Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
	RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
	And an elegant assortment
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.
HENRY DINEWOODEY
FURNITURE,
	WALL PAPER,
CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUINS
	and window cobices
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
	SALT LAKE CITY.
Auerbach & Bro.
	A Full and Complete Stock of 
Spring and Summer Goods
	AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
	CALL AND EXAMINE

