
Woman's Exponent
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
Vol. 28.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 1, 1899.		No.1


CONTENTS.
Peace Demonstration... 1.
Peace Meeting, Afton Wyoming...
	...Alice A. Gardner 2.
Our Duty to the Women of Our New Posses-
	ssions...Rev. Anna Garlin Spencer 3.
Queen Victoria's Birthday... 4.
U. S. A. Peace Meetings... 5.
A Tribute of Love...E. B. W. 5.
Officers and Resolutions... 5.
Mrs. Sewall's Address... 6.
Peace Meeting at Provo... 6.
Peace Meeting, Castle Dale...K. Anderson 6.
A Woman Missionary...Mrs. Addison Pratt 6.
The Peace Conference... 8.
U. W. P. C....Aimee C. Schiller 8.
The Peace Conference... 8.
Editorial: An Important Gathering of Wo-
	men... 4.
Poetry: Ode to Queen Victoria..Alfred Austin 1.
	The Hour...Josephine Spencer 1.
	Old Age... 2.


ODE TO QUEEN VICTORIA. 
	POET LAUREATE ALFRED AUSTIN.

Spring time was flowering in your fair young
	face,
When first the sceptre laid on you its load—
Springtime and seed time—and how well you
	sowed,
In the rough furrows Life’s long duties trace,
Scattering with lavish hand the smiles of youth
	and grace.
Oh, what a harvest, lady, now is yours,
Empire and fame and glory, and above
Glory and fame—a universal love—
Love rooted deep in reverence that insures
Remembrance of your name as long as time en-
	dures.
Long may the Indian summer of your days,
Yet linger in the land you love so well,
And long may we who no less love you, dwell,
In the reposeful radiance of your gaze,
A golden sunset seen through autumn’s silvery
	haze.


THE HOUR.

In every age there sounds the Watchman’s cry,
	Startling the dwellers in time’s narrow street
With tidings of events which Destiny
	Holds for the dawn to greet.

Now, in the silence of our listless night,
	Chasing with clarion-tone a countless brood
Of selfish dreams—the Voice proclaims the light
	Of man’s true Brotherhood.

This, not the cant-phrase of the Pharisee
	Nor empty word of all the warring creeds,
But watch-word of a Cause at last to be
	Clad in the garb of Deeds.

From countless armies whom the torch of war
	Enflames with brutish lust of strife and blood—
From hopeless women, who have seen the star
	Of empire rise through flood

Of staunchless tears; from fields whose furrows lie
	Sown with brave hearts, which, fired with com-
		mon zeal
For human right, laid every kindred tie
	At altar of that weal—

Has risen one strong prayer, and lo, the cry
	Has reached the hearts of earthly potentates;
When Might enthroned in priceless panoply,
	Behind his kingdom gates

Turns from the ancient law and puts his seal
	Of acquiescence on the gentler code,
Peace needs no mighter symbol of her weal
	There lies an open road


To that great goal to which the sage and seer
	Have prophesied through time—faintly in ages
		far—
The note was sounded, grew, dwindled again,
		and here
	Beats like full flood-tide at the bar.

In every air that broods, or breath that creeps
	From lip to lip—the word rings forth in power;
"Mankind are of one kin; a new faith leaps,
	Arise and meet the hour!"
						JOSEPHINE SPENCER.


[Column 1]
		PEACE DEMONSTRATION.

GOOD ATTENDANCE AT THE ASSEMBLY HALL CON-
VENTION, GOVERNOR WELLS PRESIDED AND RESO- 
LUTIONS WERE ADOPTED ENDORSING THE
		PEACE MOVEMENT, KIPLING'S RECES-
		SIONAL BEAUTIFULLY RENDERED.

	“Peace on earth, good will to men” was
the keynote of the Woman’s Peace conven-
tion held at the Assembly Hall on the eve-
ning of May 15. An audience gathered
that filled the structure to about two-thirds
of its capacity, and although there was lit-
tle demonstration or enthusiasm shown,
there was a deep undercurrent of intense
feeling through all the addresses of the
evening, which sank into the heart of
everyone there. Governor Wells presided
over the meeting.
	George A. Smith opened the meeting
with a prayer, in which he called down the
blessing of the Almighty on the peace
movement. He asked that those who sat
in high places in the councils of the nations
and who had the power to plunge the lands
under their control into war, might be led
to desire for peace and not for war. He
spoke of Utah’s sons now battling in the
Philippines, and asked that those to whom
our boys were opposed might be lead to
realize that the American flag meant to
freedom and peace, and not the yoke of
slavery.
	Governor Wells then read the call for
the meeting and introduced L. E. Hall,
who read the letter of the Czar of Russia
in which he summoned the powers to meet
in a peace convention at The Hague on
May 18.
		MRS. MAYNARD’S ADDRESS.

	Mrs. Mila Tupper Maynard was the first
speaker. “The proposal for a peace con-
vention,” she said, “was received with de-
light the world over. It was welcomed
gladly by those in high official positions in
all lands. Yet among the people, among
every class, it ought to be more welcome
than it has seemed to be. All over the
land peace meetings are being held this
evening. Yes, all over the civilized world.
And the number in attendance here and
the number at each one of these meetings
all around the globe will be cabled abroad,
and our peace commissioners will know of
what the people they represent are doing.
If all the people cared to see the dream of
universal peace realized, war wouldn’t be
possible. War appeal to our young men,
and why? Because it seems to them the
only way to win honor and glory. We
honor our heroes of war, we point to them
as models for our children, we revere them

[Column 2]
and celebrate their birthdays. They may
have been just as heroic in their works in
times of peace, but it is the war side that
we think of as the heroic side. And so we
must set up for our children heroes of
peace. We must make them realize that
the heroes of science and statesmanship and
literature are as great as those of war, and
then they will not so greatly long for the
glory of war, but rather for that of peace.”

DR. TALMAGE.

	Dr. J. E. Talmage followed: “This
movement is but the seed time,” he said,
“the harvest of peace will come after, but
as no harvest can come without a planting
we must sow the seed early if we expect a
harvest. Every government requires its
people to submit their differences to the
courts, and it is not strange that in this en-
lightened age, when it. comes to a difference
between nations these nations fly to the
most brutal and primitive methods to settle
that difference. It is a terrible game of
checkmate; torpedo boats are built to de-
stroy ships; torpedo boat destroyers follow.
Homing pigeons, first cousins to the bird
of peace, are used to carry messages of war,
and now the word comes that falcons are
being trained to catch and kill the harmless
messengers. Yet universal peace will
come at length, though it will not be at-
tained at once. And fullest success will
only come when men follow the precepts of
the humble Nazarene and love each other
as themselves.”
	Mrs. F. D. Kimball recited Edwin
Arnold’s beautiful poem, “ Peace,”and then,
amid a ripple of applause, ex-representative
W. H. King arose.
		JUDGE KING FOR PEACE.
	“Our government,” he said, “should be
the first to take up the great movement to
secure universal peace. We, of all nations,
should take the lead in such a movement.
This republic of ours, dedicated, as it is
supposed to be, to ideals of freedom and
peace, has in the past year spent $300,000,
000 for war. Considering this, isn’t it
time that our nation should reach out its
hands in the effort to obtain peace? This
movement is not wholly Utopian; it is not
unattainable. War is abnormal; it is
wholly wrong; it brings good to almost no
one, and it lays upon the people a terrible,
a harsh, a heavy burden of tears and toil
and sorrow. But we are progressing, and
the day will come at last when universal
peace will be over the earth; when our
hopes our prayers and our prophecies will
be fulfilled, and there will be no more war.
In that day one king will rule on the earth,
and he will be Christ, and His reign will
be from pole to pole.”
		MRS. W. C. JENNINGS.

	Mrs. William C. Jennings said that it
was too much to hope that universal peace
would follow immediately after the peace
conference. “The meeting itself will have
no definite results,” she said, “but all
great movements have been preceded by
the spread of a sentiment and a desire for


the result to be attained that in the end led
to the accomplishment of that result. Dec-
ades before the abolition of slavery the senti-
ment was spreading abroad against it, and
at length the time came, and behold ! slav-
ery was at an end. I hope the spirit in
favor of peace may spread, and continue
spreading until at length the desired end
comes. It has been said that the move-
ment is premature; that the time for it is
not ripe; but with this I cannot agree. I
feel with the old gentleman who arrived
ten minutes before his train left, “There’s
not a mite too much.’ ”
	Held’s band gave a selection, and then
Dr. E.V. Silver read a set of resolutions pre-
pared by the Woman’s International Peace
Committee, endorsing the peace movement,
and, on motion of Mrs. E. B.
Wells, the resolutions were adopted by
a unanimous rising vote.

FRANK B. STEVENS.

	Frank B. Stevens quoted at some length
from an oration on “Peace” by Senator
Charles Sumner, delivered on Boston Com-
mon, July 4, 1845, in which the great
statesman urged upon the nation its duty to
take the lead in a movement in the inter-
ests of universal peace. “All men are
more or less combative in disposition,” he
said, “and if we must have peace we must
learn to overcome this spirit. Until, more-
over, we can learn to revere the man of
peace and place him on the same pinnacle
of public esteem that we place the man of
war, the day of universal peace will be de-
layed. But the best omen of the success of
the project now is that it has been so en-
thusiastically taken up by the women all
over the world. If women had been as far
advanced years ago as they now are, we
should not have had to wait until now for
the era of universal peace the world over.”
	Miss Maud May Babcock was then intro-
duced by Governor Wells. She read an
original poem by Mrs. Lydia D. Alder, en-
titled "The Day of Peace.’’

BISHOP WHITNEY.

	Bishop Whitney, who followed, started
with a quotation from Tennyson, contain-
ing a prediction of universal peace. He
said the poet was not the first to make such
a prophecy. The prophets of Israel, he de-
clared, foresaw and proclaimed such an ad-
vent in lofty and sublime language. Bishop
Whitney said the church militant had
something to answer for. The most
Christianized natives had rushed against
each other for war and conquest. The
civil war was cited as another example.
	The speaker thought peace could purify
as well as war, and that there must come a
time when all will sing with Richelieu:
‘‘Take away the sword; states can be saved
without it.” Continuing he said:
	“One may be pardoned for thinking, for
hoping that that time has already come,
when he hears that the Czar of all the Rus-
sias has submitted to the powers of the
earth a proposition for universal disarma-
ment. I care not what motive may be be-
hind it, whether it be the shrewd political
maneuvering of an ambitious autocrat,
seeking to gain time in order to better sub-
serve some scheme for future conquest and
expansion, or whether it be, as I fain
would believe, the pure desire of a Christ-
ian ruler, the head of the Greek church, to
realize the sacred prediction and anticipa-
tions of centuries. Be that as it may, it is

[Column 2]
a move in the right direction. All’s one, if
God be in it for man’s salvation.” 
	A quintette consisting of Miss Lennie
Savage, Miss Edna Dwyer, George Pyper,
Professor Goddard and Mr. Peterson then
sang Rudyard Kipling’s “Recessional."

MRS. EMILY S. RICHARDS.

	Mrs. Emily S. Richards was the next
speaker. She said: “The peace question
is one of the most important problems that
this generation has met. Whenever it is
settled finally, the world will look to
America to take a part, and an active one.
Years ago much was said about an inter-
national tribunal for the arbitration of mat-
ters that involved the great nations of the
world. The indecision of the advocates of
this plan lay in the fact that they were not
agreed as to how cases should be conducted.
A permanent mixed tribunal would insure
fairness, but this is not exactly the idea of
those who see the necessity of forming a
a definite plan. There is an old saying
that Jesus by disarming Peter, disarmed
the world for all time. I am one of those
who hope the time is not far distant when
this will be the case.”

GEORGE M. CANNON.

	George M. Cannon was next introduced
by Governor Wells. “War is horrible,
but there are worse things or war would
not exist at all. To eradicate the evil we
must strike at the root.” The speaker re-
ferred to the sentiment so often expressed
by loyal Americans, “One country, may
she ever be right, but right or wrong, one
country,” and said that in his opinion this
is not a platform on which a man can stand.
	“If we would have permanent peace, we
must teach peace to our children. We
must insist that they draw the line be-
tween legitimate and illegitimate sport,
and make them understand that they are
not to enter a conflict where they will in-
jure their opponents. If we are to have
permanent peace, let us remember the
words of our first president, ‘hold out the
hand of friendship to all.’ By this plan we
can hold our place among the nations.
And in conclusion I will leave with you a
better sentiment than the oft quoted one
above: ‘Our country, may she ever be
victorious, but that she may let her always
be right.’ ’’

MRS. MARY A. FREEZE.

	Mrs. Mary A. Freeze was the last speak-
er. She made a very few remarks in which
she said she felt that we, as Christians,
ought to do all in our power to help on the
cause of peace. “Women are opposed to
war,’’ declared the speaker. “They are
unwilling to give up their dear ones. So
in behalf of all the women of the world,
who are assembled in the interests of peace,
I say: All hail, peace conference.”
	Mrs. E. B. Wells offered a vote
of thanks to all who had assisted the wo-
men in the work of arranging a peace
meeting. Her motion included those who
assisted with the music, Held’s band, whose
services had been donated for the occasion,
all committees who had worked for the
cause, and especially the press of the city.
	Mrs. Wells referred to the fact that in
seven other cities of the State the citizens
had assembled for the same purpose, and
deplored the fact that America had not
been the first nation to call for peace.
	The meeting closed with the singing of
‘‘America” by the entire audience.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PEACE MEETING, AFTON, WYOMING.
	Meeting was called to order by President
Kittie E. Dixon. Singing "Behold the 
mountains of the Lord," ect. Prayer by
Counselor Johanna Cook. Singing, 
"Sweet is Thy work," etc. President
Dixon then announced that Elder Burton
would explain the principle of arbitration.
	Elder Burton said that the ladies the
world over were making their influence
felt in favor of the great peace movement.
We all should always be on the side of
peace. War has been a curse to the hu-
man race, bringing suffering and sorrow to
many a home, and if arbitration could take
the place of war in the settlement of diffi-
culties arising between nations, it would be
a step towards the millenium.
	President Dixon said that she endorsed
the remarks of Elder Burton; that she was
on the side of peace.
	Sister Annie R. Kenington said that she
was one with her sisters in the cause of 
peace. 
Counselor Burton said that much could
be said on the subject of peace. That the
Gospel taught us very differently from war,
dissension and strife.
	Sister Harmon said that she felt like
being one with the rest in offering up her
prayers for the influence of peace to take
the place of war and strife, which seemed to
have taken hold of the human family.
	Sister Harriet Cazier said that she was
certainly for peace. Said she thought that
the Lord had put into the mind of the
Czar to move in the interests of peace.
	Sister Child said that her constant prayer
had been for peace. She hoped the Lord
would bless the efforts made for peace.
	Sister Roberts said that this peace move-
ment brought to mind a quotation, “Blessed
are the peace makers.” She felt like mak-
ing an effort for peace with the rest.
	Sister Mary Peterson said that she felt
like those of her sisters who had spoken 
before-that peace was her desire.
	Elder Jensen said he felt like the sisters
who had expressed themselves in favor of
peace.
	Sister A. J. Call said she felt like adding
her mite with the rest of her sisters. Asked
the blessings of God upon this effort of 
peace. 
Sister Anderson said her feelings were
the same as the other sisters had expressed
themselves; that her prayers were in be-
half of peace.
	Sister Isabel Call said that she felt like
adding her mite in the cause of peace.
	Elder Moffat said he felt like adding his
mite and prayers with those of the previous
speakers.
	President Dixon then called a vote,
which was unanimous in favor of peace.
	Elder Burton said that some of the sisters
had carried the idea that they could do but
little in the cause, that probably we could
not, standing alone, but the ladies of all
the civilized nations united would have a
great influence in the support of arbitration.
	Singing, “The time is nigh,” etc. Bene-
diction by Mary Moffat. 
ALICE A. GARDNER, Asst. Sec.
	May 15, 1899.


THE Minister of Education of Saxony,
Germany, issued a decree on May 3rd that
hereafter all girls and young women attend-
ing the public schools at Saxony shall dis-
card corsets.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OLD AGE.

Fling down the faded blossoms of the spring,
	Nor clasp the roses with regretful hand;
The joy of summer is a vanished thing;
	Let it depart, and learn to understand
The gladness of great calm—the autumn rest,
The Peace—of human joys the latest and the best.

Ah! I remember how in early days
	The primrose and the wild-flower grew beside
My tangled forest paths, whose devious ways
	Filled me with joys of mysteries untried,
And terror that was more than half delight,
And sense of budding life, and longings infinite.

And I remember how, in Life’s hot noon,
	Around my path the lavish roses shed
Color and fragrance, and the air of June
	Breathed rapture—now those summer days are
	fled;
Days of sweet peril, when the serpent lay
Lurking at every turn of life’s enchanted way.

The light of spring, the summer’s glow, are o’er,
	And I rejoice in knowing that for me
The woodbine and the roses bloom no more,
	The tender green is gone from field and tree;
Brown, barren sprays stand clear against the blue,
And leaves fall fast and let the truthful sunlight
	through.

For me the hooded herbs of autumn grow,
	Square-stemmed and sober; mint and sage, 
Horehound and balm—such plants as healers.
	know;
	And the decline of life’s long pilgrimage
Is soft and sweet with marjoram and thyme,
Bright with pure evening dew, not serpents’ glitter-
	ing slime.

And round my path the aromatic air
	Breathes health and perfume, and the turfy
		ground
Is soft for weary feet, and smooth and fair 
	With little thornless blossoms that abound
In safe, dry places, where the mountain side
Lies to the setting sun, and no ill beast can hide.

What is there to regret ? Why should I mourn
	To leave the forest and the marsh behind,
Or towards the rank, low meadows sadly turn ? 
	Since here another loveliness I find,
Safer and not less beautiful—and blest
	With glimpses, faint and far, of the long wished-
		for Rest.

And so I drop the roses from my hand,
	And let fhe thorn-pricks heal, and take my way
Down hill, across a fair and peaceful land
	Lapt in the golden calm of dying day—
Glad that the night is near, and glad to know
That rough or smooth the way, I have not far to
	go.


[Column 1]
OUR DUTY TO THE WOMEN OF OUR
NEW POSSESSIONS.
BY REV. ANNA GARLIN SPENCER.
	[Read at the National Suffrage Convention at
Grand Rapids.]
	We owe sympathy and friendliness to all
men and women everywhere. Especially
do we owe these to the men and women
with whom we come into new relations
by the events of the past year. There is,
however, a peculiar debt America owes to
the women of our new possessions and ter-
ritorial relationships, and through them to
the family life, the social order and the de-
veloping political organizations of those
countries coming for the first time into vital
connection with our civilization.
	This debt is, first, the obligation to study
the present condition of the women in
those lands in the light of social evolution;
and, second, to adopt such measures of
government, and such alone, as will con-
serve the civilizing powers of womanhood
already at work among these peoples.
	Prof. Otis T. Mason, the author of that
important book, "Woman's Share in Prim-
itive Culture," tells us that "the longer
one studies the subject, the more he will be
convinced that savage tribes can now be
elevated chiefly through their women."

[Column 2]
	Why is this true? For the reason that
the savage is in the stage of social order
through which all civilized nations have
passed at some period, the stage of the
mother-rule more or less modified by par-
tial masculine domination. It is a well
known fact of human history and prehis-
toric record that the "Matriarchate," or
the mother-rule preceded the "Patriarchate,"
or father-rule. "All the social fabrics of
the world are built around women. The
first stable society was a mother and
her child." The reason why the primitive
descent of name and property, and the first
fixed stake of home life, was the expression
of this maternal relationship is obvious.
Motherhood was demonstrated by nature
before fatherhood was definitely known.
Inheritance of name by the female line was
alone possible; and that as well as the fe-
male holding and transmission of property,
was a family or tribe or clan relationship,
women always holding rule and wealth not
so much as individuals as custodians of
communal life and possessions. Not only
was the mother with the child the first
founder of human society, but the woman
in savage life was the first inventor and
originator of all life sustaining industries.
The archæologists prove to us that "the
division of labor began with the invention
of fire-making. Women stayed by the fire to
keep it alive, while men went to the field
or the forest for game. The world's indus-
trialism and militarism began then and
there." Man learned to be a fighter, a
slayer of animals and of his fellow men,
later an inventor of machinery, a ruler and
a priest. "Woman became the burden-
bearer, the basket-maker, the weaver, the
potter, the domesticator of animals, the
agriculturist, in a word, the inventor of all
the peaceful arts of life." We are indebted
to women for "the oven, the chimney
corner, the kitchen, the dining-room the
family room and the separate bed cham-
ber," in the later periods of industrial and
domestic order; and these all indicate by a
symbol the place woman has held in the
development of social life. Many savage
peoples are today, as Stanley shows us in
his book on Africa, in this period of the
mother-rule, when all the industrial arts of
peace are solely or almost exclusively in
the hands of women; and where the mother
and the child taking name and inheritance
from the mother only, are the only ele-
ments of social stability; and in which the
communal family wealth outside of imple-
ments of war and personal trinkets, is
chiefly if not wholly, under the command
of women as custodians of the family
possessions. We are not sure, but it seems
likely that some of the tribes, upon whom
our government is now laying violent
hands, are still in the matriarchate.
	The second great order of family and
tribal relationship was the "Patriarchate,"
or father-rule. This came gradually in the
course of natural progress. When man
and woman set forth together in the morn-
ing of time to subjugate and possess the
world, he began early to fight and to "out-
wit, she to conserve and elaborate the
fruits of victory." He became the ex-
plorer and wanderer, as for ages he was
not bound at all closely to the family life.
She, being bound, "settled down," and
drew around her all the fixed institutions of
society. He became the "dispersive ele-
ment; she the unifying element in society."
This made her possession of property, as we
have seen, a trusteeship for the common-

[Column 3]
wealth rather than a personal ownership;
but the things man owned and used, as
well as his freer way of life, tended from
the first to make him not only militant, but
strongly individualistic in his nature.
When man also began to "settle down,"
whether from personal choice or from social
pressure, when he, too, began to learn and
practise the industrial arts heretofore sole-
ly in the hands of women, he began to
press his more personal and individualistic
claims of recognition and of property own-
ing against the family wealth of which the
woman was the custodian. The Pueblo
Indians give us good examples today of
the transition period from the mother-rule
to the father-rule. Lummis says of them:
"The woman is complete owner of the
house and all it contains, except man's
personal trinkets; and if a husband ill-
treats his wife, she can permanently eject
him from the home, and will be sustained
in the act. She does the housework only.
He owns the fields from which their sus-
tenance is drawn; but she has an equal
voice with him in the disposition of the
crops after they are housed."
	As man more and more assumed the
burden of the world's industries outside the
home (which before had been woman's
care alone), and as woman became more
and more absorbed in purely domestic con-
cerns, man's individualism assumed greater
and greater power within the family life,
and he gradually acquired the despotic
family headship which marked the ancient
patriarchal order of Rome. This was not a
social descent, but an immense social uplift
in the age in which it was natural. Prof.
Mason says, and with profound truth,
"Matrimony in all ages is an effort to se-
cure to the child the authenticity of the
father." It was necessary for social growth
that offspring should have two parents in-
stead of one; that the division of labor
should be more equal, and man be fastened
to domestic needs by bonds he could not
break, and through labors that were peace-
ful as well as arduous. For that process
his individualism developed through ages
of free wandering and purely militant life,
must be not only tamed somewhat, but
harnessed to the home life. To accomplish
that mighty social uplift by which offspring
secured two parents instead of one, wo-
man's subjection to man was paid as the
price of the higher form of family unity.
Nor was her subjection to man in the ruder
ages wholly an evil to herself. It
has been said that "woman was first, the
wife of any, second the wife of many and
third one of many wives." Each of these
steps was an advance in her sexual rela-
tionship. All were stepping-stones to the
monogamic union which is the standard of
our civilization, and the realized ideal of all
our best and wisest men and women. Now
in the ages of unbridled lust and strife it
took all the power of man’s individualistic
ownership, his pride of possession and
fierce resentment of another’s intrusion up-
on his rights, to protect the husband’s
claim over one woman, that which could
alone make the "father’s authenticity"
perfect. And in that safety of her slavery
to one lay the protection of the wife and
mother from the degradation and outrage of
other men’s violence.
[To be continued.]


THE Woman's Journal of May 27 will
be published on Mrs. Howe’s 80th birthday
and will be a Julia Ward Howe number.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
Woman's Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah,
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months. 
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
		Address all business communications to

					Mrs E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

		Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
	second-class matter.

			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 1, 1899.


[Column 1]
AN IMPORTANT GATHERING OF WOMEN.

	The International Council of Women
will follow closely upon the International
Peace Conference of men.
	The women of this country, and of many
others also, sought to emphasize the peace
movement by holding simultaneous meet-
ings and passing Resolutions, recognizing
the efforts being put forth by the Czar and
other rulers to bring about a more harmon-
ious way of settling difficulties and differ-
ences.
	The International Council of Women
scarcely expect to move the world in such
a way as to cause disarmament, even gradu-
ally, though their influence is, and will be,
brought to bear in this direction, neverthe-
less the great Council and Congress about
to convene, will at least discuss the most
important questions of the age. The Pre-
amble to the Constitution of the Inter-
national Council reads as follows:

	We women of all nations, sincerely believing
that the best good of humanity will be advanced
by greater unity of thought, sympathy and pur-
pose, and that an organized movement of women
will best conserve the highest good of the family
and of the state, do hereby band ourselves in a
federation of workers to further the application of
the Golden Rule to society, custom and law.

	Objects set forth are in keeping with the
preamble:
	
	(a) To provide means of communication be-
tween women’s organizations in all countries.
	(b) To provide opportunities for women to meet
together from all parts of the world to confer upon
questions relating to the welfare of the common-
wealth and the family.

	As there seems to be much lack of under-
standing of the real foundation and machin-
ery of the Council, as also of the spirit and 
ideal, it is, therefore, appropriate and essen-
tial at a time when so many Utah women
are making preparations to go to London
and attend the sessions of the Council, that
a more general diffusion of its benefits
should be laid before the people.
	The EXPONENT of May 15th published
a long article furnished by May Wright
Sewall, who is perfectly familiar with the
aims, purposes and work of the National
Council of this and other countries, and the
International, with which they are affiliated.
	The International Council is not organ-
zed in the interest of any one propaganda,
and has no power over its members beyond
that of suggestion and sympathy, therefore
no National Council or body of women is
rendered liable to be interfered with in
respect to its complete organic unity, in-
dependence or methods of work, neither are
they committed to any principle or method

[Column 2]
of any other Council affiliated, nor to any
utterance or act of the International Coun-
cil, beyond compliance with the terms of
the Constitution.
	This great assemblage of women will
come together in some of the most noted
and popular places in London, in the Large
Hall, in Westminster Town Hall, in Coun-
cil Chamber, Westminster Hall; and other
places have been suggested for Congresses.
Many meetings will be going on at the
same time in different halls, as at the
World’s Congress in Chicago.
	Mrs. Sewall informs us that fifty-one
American women, are in some way con-
nected with the Council and with the Con-
gress, and expect to be present. Five of
these are Utah women, besides other Utah
women who will be present as members of
the great organizations with headquarters
here that are affiliated with the National
Council of the United States—viz: The
National Woman’s Relief Society and
Y. L. M. I. A.
	The ladies who expect to be in London
on this great occasion are Mesdames Lucy
B. Young, Emma Gates, Elizabeth Claridge
McCune, Jesse Knight, Susa Y. Gates,
Margaret A. Caine, Lydia D. Alder, Carrie
S. Thomas, Kate Thomas, Fay McCune,
Clara Holbrook, Mr. and Mrs. Miller and
Mrs. E. B. Wells.
	There may be others of whom we have
not heard; some of these have already started
East on their journey. It is certainly a
good showing from Utah, and does not
look as if the people were behind in desir-
ing intelligence, or going backward instead
of progressing.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Before the issue of another paper the
editor will be enroute for London to attend
the International Council of Women and
Miss Emeline Wells will take charge of the
office in her absence, attending to all de-
tails of the business. Miss Wells has been 
associated with the EXPONENT in past
years and is quite familiar with the routine
business of the paper. All letters should 
be directed hereafter, according to the editor-
ial heading—Mrs. E. B. Wells, Salt Lake 
City, Utah.

	Peace meetings were held in Orangeville,
Emery Co., and in Josepa, Tooele Co., be-
sides the eight already published. Minutes
of these will be given in June 15th, also
conferences and Ladies’ Semi-monthly
Meetings, a continuation of Mrs. Addison
Pratt’s Pacific Islands mission and the re-
mainder of Anna Garlin Spencer’s speech,
“Our Duty to the Women of Our New
Possessions,” and the program, etc., of
the International Council in London.

	President Snow’s party have made a tour
which will be an episode in the lives of
those they have visited during their visits 
to towns in the South. The people grow
hungry for the sight of those who hold
authority in the Church, and the welcomes
extended everywhere amounted to a public
ovation. The large assemblies, the music,
the flags, banners and brass bands, with
the troops of Sunday School children, all 
testified to the high estimation in which
the Saints hold their beloved leader and his
associates.

	The Peace meetings in Utah were certain-
ly successful in the object so far as numbers


and passing the resolutions were concerned.
In eight cities and towns the women planned
and carried into effect creditable meetings—
Salt Lake City, Ogden, Brigham City,
Logan, Provo, Nephi, Ephraim and Castle
Dale. The number of people in attendance
was over seven thousand, but in sending
cablegram to “The Hague,” where every
word counted, even signature and address,
we wrote: “American Delegation, The
Hague, seven thousand people voted peace
resolution. (Signed) Wells.” The Ameri-
can Committee at the Peace Conference re-
plied to the cablegram in these words:
“American Commission sincerely thanks
you for your kind message. (Signed)
White, President Holls—secretary.” The
answer was entirely unexpected and was
thoroughly appreciated, showing what
great courtesy American’s abroad accord to
their country-women. Utah was recognized
for the spontaneous response to the request
of the Woman’s Peace Committee.


QUEEN VICTORIA'S BIRTHDAY.
	London, May 24.—Torrents of rain
ushered in Queen Victoria’s birthday today.
Windsor, where a general holiday is being
observed, was decorated with flags and the
church bells were rung at 11 o’clock in the
morning. The weather cleared about 11
o’clock and a serenade by the Windsor and
Eton amateur choral societies was given in
the grand quadrangle of Windsor Castle.
	Sir Walter Parratt, the master of the
queen’s music and private organist to the
queen, wearing his official robes, conducted
the serenade from the steps of the queen’s
private entrance to the palace, just below
the oak room where the queen was break-
fasting. The Eton college volunteer
cadets marched into the castle grounds.
Behind the cadets were drawn up the rest
of the Eton boys and the Military Knights
of Windsor. The mayor and corporation
of Windsor, in their fullrobes of office, and
the borough magistrates were also present.
	The scene was picturesque. They all
sang the national anthem and the choir
gave the program comprising the late
Bishop of Wakefield’s Jubilee hymn, a four
part song, and two specially written mad-
rigals “To the Queen.” Finally the
Eton boys gave three lusty cheers in honor
of her majesty and the Duke of Connaught
came to one of the windows and thanked
those present in behalf of the queen, who
herself, looking to be in excellent health,
came forward and bowed repeatedly. Dur-
ing the afternoon the queen planted an oak
sapling on the east lawn of Windsor Castle.
She drove along Kenneth drive to the spot
and was assisted in the planting by the
Duke of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha. All the
royal family witnessed the ceremony. Her
majesty then continued her drive in the
direction of Frogmore.
	The Military Knights of Windsor pre-
sented an address to the queen at noon in
the corridor of the castle and received the
warm thanks of her majesty.
	A pretty incident was the presentation to
the queen this morning by each of her
grand and great grandchildren now at the
castle, of a tiny bouquet of flowers. These
descendants of her majesty, who wers deep-
ly touched, also kissed her. Her majesty
also attended the birthday service held at
the chapel Royal, St. James Palace.
	Birthday celebrations occurred through-
out the provinces. The ships in the differ-
ent ports were dressed for the occasion, and


the war ships were covered with bunting.
At Portsmouth there were reviews of the
regular troops, volunteers and naval birg-
ades, and the same ceremonies occurred at
the various arsenals and the garrison
towns.
	A telegram from Simla, the summer
capital of British India, records that im-
pressive queen’s birthday services there
were attended by the viceroy of India,
Lord Curzon of Kedleston, and the Indian
and military officials in full dress. Royal
salutes were fired. 
	Jos. H. Choate, the United States ambas-
sador, telegraphed his congratulations to
the queen, and her majesty sent a gracious
reply.
	The president has addressed the follow-
ing message to Queen Victoria on the anni-
versary of her birthday:
	“Executive Mansion, Washington, D. C.,
May 24.—To Her Majesty the Queen,
Windsor Castle. England:
	Madame: It gives me great pleasure to
convey on this happy anniversary the ex-
pression of the sentiments of regard and
affection which the American people cherish
towards your majesty, and to add the as-
surance of my own cordial respect and
esteem. May God grant to your majesty
and to the country under your government
many years of happiness and prosperity.
	‘‘WILLIAM MCKINLEY.’’


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


U. S. A. PEACE MEETINGS.

	Reports of demonstrations of women in
behalf of peace and arbitration are still com-
ing in to Mrs. May Wright Sewall, chair-
man, of the American branch of the Inter-
national Committee. Mrs. Sewall reports
up to date news from seventy-one meetings,
at which 30,482 women were actually pres-
ent. Some of the meetings were of a dele-
gate character, the delegates representing
and actual voting constituency sufficient to
bring the number endorsing the resolutions
to over ninety thousand.
	As the initiative of this movement was
taken up so late as April 16th this response
was very gratifying.
	The states in which meetings were held
are as follows: California, Utah, Minneso-
ta, Iowa, Kansas, Illinois, Michigan,
Indiana, Ohio, Georgia Pennsylvania,
Rhode Island, New York, Maine and the
District of Columbia.
	Among the meetings those held by col-
lege women at the University of Michigan
and the University of Chicago are among
the most interesting reported. The former was addressed by President Angel, who
gave his enthusiastic support to this wo-
man’s movement.
	In addition to the women’s meetings re-
ports have come to Mrs. Sewall from hun-
dreds of congregations whose pastors
preached on the subject on Sunday, May
14, and took the votes of their congrega-
tions afterwards. In New York City,
where Mrs. Mary Lowe Dickinson has had
charge of the demonstrations, very thorough
work is being done in meetings of the
individual organizations, where the resolu-
tions are endorsed after discussion. Twenty
six organizations in New York City have
thus endorsed the resolutions.
	The response indicated so much latent
interest and sympathy that Mrs. Sewall
has communicated to the Central Commit-
tee at Berlin a proposition for continuing
these meetings at intervals during the ses-
sion of the Congress at The Hague.


A TRIBUTE OF LOVE.
“After the burden and beat of the day.
The starry calm of night;
After the rough and toilsome way,
A sleep in the robe of white.”
ELIZABETH ALMIRA WHITNEY LEWIS.
	Sister Elizabeth A. Whitney Lewis, who de-
parted this life May 12, 1899 at 6:15 p. m., at the
residence of her daughter, Sister Almira J. Merrill,
wife of Apostle M. W. Merrill, was a very dear
friend of the writer, and in the days of Nauvoo we
were intimately associated. It is with profound
sorrow, albeit mingled with satisfaction, that we
record her demise. She passed peacefully away
after much suffering, and no doubt an escort was
waiting to accompany her to the paradise beyond
the veil.
	In her early life when we were little girls we
attended the same Sabbath School, and later we
both joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints, though Sister Elizabeth went to Nau-
voo first, and also came to the valley in 1847.
	Elizabeth A. Pond was born May 2, 1827, in
Hubbardston, Worcester Co., Mass. Her mother
was Almira Whitemore, her father was Stillman
Pond who was well known throughout Utah, one
of his sons is now president of the Pocatello Stake
of Zion. Her parents were in good circumstances
and gave their children excellent opportunities for
all the educational advantages then attainable.
Elizabeth attended school until she was sixteen.
The mother died in 1834 leaving four girls, of
whom Elizabeth was the eldest. Sometime after
the father married again and consequently moved
to New Salem, Franklin Co., in the same state.
All the girls had the greatest respect and love for
their stepmother.
	In the year 1841 the Gospel was brought to
New Salem and Brother Pond opened his large
and commodious house to the “Mormon” Elders,
and many of the branch raised up there were bap-
tized in the large brook on his farm. Elizabeth
was one of the first to obey the Gospel, and was
baptized by Elder Elias Harris, Dec. 9, 1841. In
September 1843 Brother Pond sold his possessions
in Mass, to cast his lot with the Saints in Nau-
voo. They traveled thither by team, reaching
that far-famed city, Dec. 7, 1843. Brother Pond
built a nice brick house next to Apostle Heber C.
Kimball’s, a home from which they were driven
by the mob in 1846.
	It was in Nauvoo that Elizabeth was married
to Bishop Newel K. Whitney, February 18,
1845.
	After leaving Nauvoo the family journeyed to
Winter Quarters on the Missouri river; one son of
Brother Pond’s died on the journey, the wife,
three daughters, one son (the only one left) in
Winter Quarters of chills and fever. Elizabeth
came to Utah with her father in 1847 in Captain
Edward Hunter’s company and lived in the Old
Fort in Pioneer Square.
	After the death of Bishop Whitney, Elizabeth
was married again to Beason Lewis, and in 1860
they moved from Salt Lake City and were among
the pioneers of Richmond.
	In 1854 Sister Elizabeth’s only remaining sister,
Sister Loenza (wife of Joseph C. Kingsbury)
died, and she took two of her girls and brought
them up as if they were her own. She had one
daughter of her own with whom she lived dur-
ing her later life, and who tenderly watched and
cared for her, and in her long period of illness
and suffering was her constant companion and
nurse, by night and by day. All that loving
hearts and hands could do was done to alleviate
her pain and minister to her wants.
	The funeral services were held in the Richmond
hall on Monday, May 15th. Prof. J. M. Tanner,
of Logan, Bishop Wm. H. Lewis, of Lewiston,
and Bishop Wm. Skidmore, of Richmond were
the speakers, and all testified of her sterling
qualities and strict integrity; her love for the good
and true, and her exemplary life. The floral
offerings were very beautiful.
	She leaves one daughter twelve grandchildren
and thirteen great grandchildren, a number of
brothers and sisters by her father’s later marriage
and a host of friends to mourn the loss of her
society, but they have her example of faithful
endurance, and “Blessed are they who endure to
the end.”
“Good bye—with latest breath we say it,
A legacy of hope, and faith and love;
Parting must come, we cannot long delay it,
But, one in Him, we hope to meet above,
If God be with us."
E. B. W.


OFFICERS AND RESOLUTIONS.
	The National American Woman Suf-
frage Association at its 31st Annual Meet-
ing, in Grand Rapids, Mich., May 3, 1899,
elected the following officers for the coming
year:
OFFICERS.
	President—Miss Susan B. Anthony.
	Vice-President-at-large—Rev. Anna Howard
Shaw.
	Corresponding Secretary—Mrs. Rachel Foster
Avery.
	Recording Secretary—Miss Alice Stone Black-
well.
	Treasurer—Mrs. Harriet Taylor Upton.
	Chairman of the Committee on Organization—
Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt.
	Auditors—Miss Laura Clay and Catharine
Waugh McCulloch.
RESOLUTIONS.
	The following resolutions were unani-
mously adopted:
	RESOLVED, That we reaffirm our devotion to
the immortal principle that governments derive
their just powers from the consent of the governed,
and we call for its application in the case of wo-
men citizens.
	We protest against the introduction of the word
“male” in the suffrage clause of the proposed
constitution of Hawaii, and declare that upon
whatever terms the franchise may be granted to
men, it should be granted also to women.
	In all the great questions of war and peace,
currency, tarif and taxation, annexation of fore-
ign territory and alien races, women are vitally in-
terested, and should have an equal expression at
the ballot box, and we recommend to the Presi-
dent of the United States the appointment of a
committee of women to investigate the condition
of women in our new island territories.
	We congratulate the women of Ireland who
have just voted for the first time for municipal
and county officers, and we call attention to the
fact that 75 per cent of the qualified women voted,
and that the dispatches say they discharged
their duties in a serious and businesslike spirit,
with a keen eye to the personal merits of candi-
dates.
	We congratulate the women of Colorado, whose
Legislature lately passed a resolution testifying to
the good effects of equal suffrage by a vote of 45
to 3 in the House and 30 to 1 in the Senate.
	We congratulate the women of New Orleans,
who are about to vote for the first time on a tax
levy for sewerage and drainage, and we commend
their patriotic activity in collecting the signatures
of 2,000 tax paying women of that city in behalf of
clean streets and a pure water supply.
	We congratulate the women of France who have
just voted for the first time for judges of tribunals
of commerce, and we call attention to the fact that
in Paris, of the qualified voters, men and women
taken together, only 14 per cent voted, but of the
women 30 per cent voted.
	We congratulate the women of Kansas on the
increased municipal vote of April, 1899, over the
entire State, Kansas City alone registering 4,800
women and casting over 3,000 women's votes at
the municipal election.
	We thank the representatives of Oklahoma for
their vote of 14 to 9, and the representatives of
Arizona for their vote of 19 to 5 for woman
suffrage, and regret that the question did not
reach the councils of these territories.
	We thank the Legislature of California for its
enactment with only one dissenting vote in the
House and 6 in the Senate, of a school suffrage
law which failed to receive the approval of the
Governor; also we thank the Legislature of Con-
necticutt and Ohio, which have defeated bills to
repeal the existing school suffrage laws of those
States.
	We thank the legislators of Oregon who have
just submitted an amendment granting suffrage to
women by a vote of 48 to 6 in the House and 25 to
1 in the Senate, and we hope that Oregon will add
a fifth star to our equal suffrage flag.
	This association is non-sectarian and non-parti-
san, and asks for the ballot, not for the sake of ad-
vancing any specific measure, but as a matter of
justice to the whole human family.
	In all the States where equal suffrage campaigns
are pending we advise women and men to base
their plea on the grounds clear and obvious justice,
and not indulge in predictions as to what women
will do with the ballot before it is secured.
	We protest against women being counted in the


basis of representation of State and nation so
long as they are not permitted to vote for their
representatives.
	We appreciate the friendly attitude of the
American Federation of Labor, the National
Grange and other public bodies of voters, as
shown by their resolutions indorsing legal, political
and economic equality of women.
	We rejoice in the Peace Congress about to
meet at The Hague, and hope it may be prelimin-
ary to the establishment of international arbitra-
tion.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MRS. SEWALL’S ADDRESS.
	Mrs. May Wright Sewall spoke on “The
True Civilization of the World.” She
said:
	In the new civilization the sense of
personal responsibility is strong; it respects
the child’s individuality, and also recognizes
the unity of all educational agencies—the
kindergarten, the school, college and uni-
versity.
	There is also a new theology, in which
individual conscience is substituted for the
dictates of authority, and which distin-
guishes between metaphysical doctrine and
practical principle. It seeks the higher
unity, all embracing.
	The new political economy recognizes
the right of the individual, and the body
politic as a body composed of units, each
one of which must be respected. Its whole
effort is to preserve the rights of employers
qnd to give equal recognition to those of
the employed; to unify all those classes
that have heretofore been kept divided.
	The new civilization results from all
these. The difficulties in realizing this
perfect unit all arise from selfishness. We
have long recognized that individual self-
ishness was a defect, but national selfish-
ness has been for a long time extolled under
the name of patriotism, and has gone on
cleaving great chasms between different
peoples. In the new civilization the indi-
vidual will recognize himself at his best in
his relation to the whole. The different
professions will recognize that what each
contributes is but a small ratio to what each
receives from the rest. The different
nationalities will recognize their respective
dignities in just the proportion in which
the whole must transcend any part. Then
humanity will exceed national feeling, and
the unity of the race will exalt the dignity
of the individual.
	Mrs. Sewall put in a plea for a cordial
welcome to the Czar’s disarmament con-
ference, which was warmly applauded.


PEACE MEETING AT PROVO.
	A peace meeting was held in the Taber-
nacle, Mrs. Mary John presiding.
	Services were commenced by the congre-
gation singing "America." President Ed-
ward Partridge led in prayer, after which
Eva Ward and Walter Whitehead sang
"Peace to the Dwelling."
	Mrs. John spoke a few words at the com-
mencement of the meeting, expressing her
desire that we shall soon have peace. 
	Mrs. William J. Knight read the peace
resolutions.
	President Reed Smoot from this point
took charge of the meeting. He gave a
brief address reviewing the call of peace.
	Mrs. Marilla Daniels, representing the
Relief Society, responded to the sentiment,
"Universal Brotherhood of Man."
	A duet, "Life's Rosy Morn," was
rendered by Messrs. George Burles and J.
J. Johnson. Mrs. Mary Boyden, represent-


ing the Woman's Christian Temperance
Union, answered to "Who Hath Wounds
Without Cause?"
	"The Principle of Non-resistance," was
spoken of by Mrs. L. H. Cannon, of the
B. Y. A.
	The Rev. J. E. Kirby responded to
"Will Peace Diminish Patriotism?"
	A quartette, "Just as God Leads," by
Misses Etta Farrer and Fern Cluff, and
Messrs. Ray Clayton and Walter Whitehead.
	Miss Alice Reynolds responded to "Is
Universal Peace Feasible?"
	"International Arbitration" was the sub-
ject of a talk by Miss Josephine Kellogg, of
the Nineteenth Century Club.
	"May Boys Fight or Must They Arbi-
trate?" was discussed by Mrs. Ida Dusen-
berry, of the Mother's Club, and Superin-
tendent Rawlins.
	The Rev. H. S. Goodwin gave the senti-
ment, "The Slaughter of Innocents."
	"Through Strife to Peace" was handled
by Mrs Sarah E. Eggertson, of the Sorosis
Club.
	The meeting closed by singing the song,
"Gloria."


PEACE MEETING, CASTLE DALE.
	The women of Castle Dale, Emery Co.,
met in the Social Hall, May 15, 1899, for
the purpose of responding to the call made
through the EXPONENT in regard to the
general peace movement.
	Mrs. Caroline Larsen, president of the
Relief Society, took charge of the meeting,
with Mrs. Kathinka Anderson as secretary.
	The object of the meeting was stated,
appropriate speeches were made in favor of
the peace movement. A committee was
chosen to draft a resolution, and the follow-
ing resolutions were read by the secre-
tary:
RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas there has been an appeal made to the
women of Utah to participate in the Czar’s In-
ternational Peace Measure, which he suggested
through his letter to the nations’ rulers, and who
are to meet May 18th at The Hague, Holland, in
conference, for the purpose of establishing peace
among the nations by arbitration in place of rush-
ing to arms to settle difficulties among the nations
of the earth, therefore, be it
	RESOLVED, That we, the women of Castle Dale,
County, of Emery, fair State of Utah, heartily
endorse this measure, and pledge ourselves to use
all our influence in support of this move. Be it
further
	RESOLVED, That we do not endorse the present
procedure of settling difficulties among the nations,
because it destroys life, it causes sorrow and dis-
tress and leaves widows and fatherless children,
who mourn the loss of those who are slain; and
not only that, but very often pestilence and
famine follow in the wake of this carnage and
strife.
	The resolutions were unanimously sus-
tained by the vote of the house.
	A general good feeling prevailed.
CAROLINE LARSEN, Pres.,
KATHINKA ANDERSON Sec.


MRS. MARY A. LIVERMORE has just de-
stroyed the manuscript of a hundred and
twenty original poems written by her.
She is going over her papers and ruthlessly
burning up all her old compositions, essays,
and even the manuscript of her lectures. A
whole regiment of scrapbooks, full of her
written comments on the books that she
has read during the last half century, have
lately gone to feed her furnace fire, and
still the work of destruction continues.


A WOMAN MISSIONARY.
	[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands,
1850.]
	In 1843, or thereabouts, several brethren
were sent by President Joseph Smith to the
Islands of the Sea; one of the men who as-
sisted in opening up this mission was Elder
Addison Pratt, who left his family, wife
and children for several years, during
which time the exodus from Nauvoo oc-
curred and the Latter-day Saints reached
this valley.
	Again in the fall of 1849, Elder Pratt
was called to go the second time to the
Society Islands, other Elders accompanying
him. His wife was a very strong-minded
woman and also strong in the faith of the
Gospel, but this second mission seemed al-
most more than she could endure, with
a family of children to provide for in those
early days of hardship and scarcity.
	Mrs. Louisa Barnes Pratt was an educated
woman, and had seen better days before re-
ceiving the Gospel and gathering with the
Saints, whose fate, in early days, seemed to
be mobbings and drivings and all kinds of
ill treatment from those whose faith was
different; but Mrs. Pratt kept a diary, and
afterwards put it in form intending to pub-
lish her life in a book; but, alas, before she
ever had the means necessary for publica-
tion she passed on behind the veil, leaving
the manuscript for her children and pos-
terity.
	Many readers of the EXPONENT will re-
member her articles in the early numbers
of the paper; always interesting and brist-
ling with good points. I have requested
the privilege from her daughters of perus-
ing her manuscript and using some chapters
in the EXPONENT. And now, when so
much is being said of women missionaries,
it seems fitting to recount something of
those who traveled long distances to carry
good news and the light of the Gospel to
far off lands, at a time when such facilities
for traveling as we have nowadays were
unknown.
	And now, let me inform our readers,
that Mrs. Pratt, from whose journal we
quote, was the cousin (once removed) of
Dr. Elvira S. Barney, so well known in
Salt Lake City and in Utah. This part of
her journal begins with a visit from Mrs.
Mary Ann Young, who came at a time
when Mrs. Pratt was much depressed in
spirit and borne down with the heavy re-
sponsibility of her family.

	On a certain day in the month of March,
1840, Sister Mary Ann Young called at
my house to inquire how I was feeling,
and whether I had any requests to
make of President Brigham Young. So
distracted were my thoughts I knew
not how to answer her. She asked, "Have
you a desire to go to your husband?" I
dared not say I had. So great was the
dread of such an immense journey, I
could not choose between the performance
of it without my companion on the way,
and another five years widowhood! I told
her Brother Tomkins had offered to take
us to California in case the Church decided
to send us to the Islands. As soon as she
heard that I saw she favored my going,
I regretted telling her. I trembled
terribly. Sometimes fearing that I might
be sent, and again that I might not. Could
I have received an affectionate letter from
my husband encouraging me to come, it
would have tranquilized my mind.


[Column 1]
	I found my spirit growing rebellious;
imagined my trials greater than any other
woman’s ever were. I imagined my com-
panion was glad to go from home because I
could not always manage to please him.
From the indulgence of that unhappy spirit
I suffered more than from all the privations
and poverty I had passed through. I laid
my cause before the Lord, and plead with
Him to let the day dawn, and the day star
arise in my heart! I besought the sisters
who pitied me to pray, which they did
with fervor and assurance, that all would
be over-ruled for my good.
	The April conference drew on; I knew
my fate would be decided. A thousand
miles travel over an unsettled country;
five thousand miles voyage at sea; to labor
among a people distinct from my own.
I saw there was but two ways; stand alone
and assume great self-reliance; be father
and mother to my children; create means to
sustain them; live crowded up in a Fort, a
complete mudhole in wet weather. If I
was sent to the Islands my daughters (the
older ones were nearly at a marriageable
age) must be taken from their associates to
a foreign land; for myself I would not de-
cide, but earnestly sought to know the mind
and will of the Lord. In conversation
with Dr. Willard Richards I remarked to
him, that were I an Elder I would never
consent to stay so long from my family;
that I would go, deliver my message as
speedily as possible and return to fulfill my
domestic obligations. He smiled, and
though he did not in words concur, I
knew he felt the justice of my sentiments.
I was between two great fires; which ever
way I turned I would encounter the flames.
I wrestled in prayer; my friends prayed for
me, and all their prophecies were that I
would go to the Islands of the Seas, to
join my companion. There I should be
blessed in teaching the children of nations,
whose minds were dark, to know and love
truth.
	In 1850, 6th of April, I attended Confer-
ence. I listened to the first discourses,
they were comforting. At length the ap-
pointments were given out. Brother T.
Tomkins was appointed to go to the Islands
and take Addison Pratt’s family. I heard
no more. An indescribable sensation per-
vaded my whole system. Several persons
were appointed to go with us, in whose
society I could not foresee much pleasure.
At intermission I went to President
Young’s. I talked with Sister Young, and
urged the promise I once had, that if I
went my sister should go with me. She
promised to use her influence, and the suc-
ceeding day my brother-in-law was ap-
pointed on the mission. I had thought if
that were done my mind would be relieved.
	I found I was mistaken. I now felt to
blame myself for my solicitations. She
had a pleasant home and was comfortable.
Her home must be sold to make the neces-
sary preparations. She was tranquil and
unmoved. A short time was allotted us to
make ready. I was extremely weak. My
good friends Holmes stood by me in every
time of trial. My daughters had all they
could to pay farewell visits and receive calls.
Sister Holmes kindly offered her assistance
to do everything that seemed burdensome
to me, thus proving herself a friend in time
of need. Sister Daniel Russell spent days
with me, aiding by her agreeable conver-
sation to strengthen and encourage me. I
disposed of various little articles which it
was impracticable to take with me, which

[Column 2]
gave me great pain to part with. Some of
these were curiosities my husband brought
from the Islands; dear to me beyond de-
scription. The circumstance attending the
disposal of them occasioned me a reproof,
the most cutting I ever received in my life.
	I betrayed a childish spirit, owing to the
great weakness of my mind at that time.
The person did not understand my situation;
it was not in my power to maintain that
dignity and self-control that the friend had
expected of me. My friend, Sister Holmes,
deeply sympathized and felt that I was un-
justly reproved. I told my grief to Sister
John Taylor; she tried to soothe me and
heal my wound; but, ah! my heart was
sore! The dear woman had discovered my
anguish and entreated me to confide my
secret to her. I loved her from that hour.
The hearts of many seemed open to assist
me. I saw a rising interest in my welfare.
Homes were offered my eldest daughters if
they would remain with the Church and let
their mother go, but all the generous offers
were unheeded by them. The novelty of
the journey and the prospect of meeting
their father prevailed over every other con-
sideration. I was very successful in ob-
taining supplies for the tour by land; in
San Francisco we were assured we should
find liberal-hearted brethren, who would fit
us out for the sea voyage. May 27th left
the Old Fort. We sold our adobe room
for $25.00. Started at 5 o’clock after a day
spent in bustle and excitement; buying,
selling, parting with friends, giving and re-
ceiving gifts. With great reluctance I
bade them farewell. True friends have
they been to me, tried and proven. I
thought in the morning it would be impos-
sible to get my goods packed to start; they
were tumbled in without order, and when
the last article was deposited I felt a thous-
and pounds weight roll from my heart and
shoulders. Sister Glover had presented me
with some tea in a glass jar, it was set
loose in a trunk not locked. The trunk
was placed on a large chest in front of the
wagon. All unconcerned we let the wagon
start. Down went the trunk, every thing
fell on the ground, the jar broke, and be-
hold, all my tea was spilt in the sand! I
did not think it worth a moment’s thought
compared with the great things in contemp-
lation. We made a call at President
Young’s, found supper ready. We partook
of their hospitality, and Brother Young
blessed me. He said I was called, set
apart and ordained to go to the Islands of
the Sea, to aid my husband in teaching the
people. That I should be honored by
those with whom I traveled, that all my
wants should be supplied. That no evil
should befall me on the journey, that I
should lack nothing. I should have power
to rebuke the destroyer from my house,
that he should not have power to menace
any of my family; that I should do a good
work and return in peace; many other
things, all of which he sealed upon my head
in the name of the Lord. I thanked them
for all their loving kindness, bade them
farewell, and we drove to the warm springs
and stopped with Brother William Hen-
dricks. Some of the friends came with us
there and spent the evening. We were
kindly entertained, and the following day a
company of young people traveled fourteen
miles with us. We called and spent the
night with those who had been our bene-
factors in troublous times. The good old
people Parish and wife loaded us with
blessings, shed tears at the remembrance of

[Column 3]
our past sufferings and prayed, earnestly
that we might be protected on pur long
journey till we should reach in safety the
desired haven. Brother Jonathan Holmes had
just then moved into that settlement. He
came to me and said, “Have I everything
done as you wished me to do, and can you
carry a good report to Brother Pratt of my
faithfulness?” I answered him he had
done all and more than I could have pre-
sumed to ask, and I prayed that blessings
might follow him all his days; and I knew
Brother Pratt would say, amen!
[To be continued.]


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TENTH WARD ANNIVERSARY.
	Minutes of the 20th anniversary of the
10th ward Primary Association, held May
15, 1899.
	Superintendent B. Howarth presided.
Meeting opened by singing, “Little Chil-
dren Love the Savior.” Prayer was offered
by Brother Joseph Keddington; and the chil-
dren continued by singing, “God Will
Bless the Pure In Heart.” Minutes of the
last annual were read and approved.
	The following program was rendered:
The Primary address, by Rasmus Borg-
quist. Organ, solo by Mamie Russell.
Recitation by fifteen little boys, about the
First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles.
Story about the “Liahona, or the Miracu-
lous Brass Ball,” Ethel Symons. Dia-
logue, “Which Would You Rather Be?”
by six little girls from the Kindergarten
class. Song by Celia Harrison, Alice
Keddington, Arzella Symons and Flora
Meyerhoffer, “Island of Dreams.” Brief
sketch of the Primary Association, by
Myrtle Rackham. Song, “Forbid Them
Not,” by the children. Recitation by
Nellie Howarth. Song, “Busy Little
Blacksmith,” by the Kindergarten class.
Story about “Honesty,” by Hattie Woods.
	President Cobb then spoke to the Pri-
mary, saying she was pleased with the pro-
gram and could almost prophecy of the
future in the 10th ward. She said that the
little boys and girls would grow up to be
presidents and active members of the differ-
ent associations of the ward and Church.
Said this was our 20th anniversary, and
she had been engaged in the Primary work
for eighteen years. The officers and teach-
ers working with the children always had
a good spirit, for they were working with
pure little children. She was proud of our
meeting and of our attendance, which is
the largest in this Stake of Zion. Was
pleased to see so many parents present, as
it gives encouragement to the teachers.
Asked the Lord to bless us in the future as
he had in the past.
	The Articles of Faith were repeated by
Celia Harrison.
	Sister Lydia Ann Wells was highly
gratified with our Primary. She had visit-
ed many associations and did not know of
any better, and few that were as good as
ours. Said there was much expected of
the children, and felt to rejoice and ask the
Lord to bless us year by year in all things.
	Sister Mary L. Morris told the children
the story of King Ahab.
	Bishop Adam Spiers thought the chil-
dren had been kept here some time and
were tired, and did not want to detain
them, although he could speak for some
time. Said it did not seem twenty years
since the organization of our Primary, and
those who had been in the Primary a few
years ago were now grown and going to


other associations, and most of them were
still faithful Latter-day Saints. It
was a grand work, and required a constant
labor, care and patience on the part of the
officers. We have been improving from
the day the association was organized, and
felt to thank and ask the Lord to bless Sis-
ter Howarth and her assistants and aids for
their labors.
	Sister Julia C. Howe, one of the Stake
aids, said this was an exceptionally good
Primary, and we did our president and aids
credit. Hoped our ambitions might be led
to do that which is right and the guardian
angel might be our constant companion,
that we would be faithful in attending to
our prayers, paying our tithing and re-
sponding to all that is required of us; and
as you grow up remember the
truths received in Primary.
	Meeting closed by singing, “Closing
Hymn.” Benediction was pronounced by
Brother C. W. Symons.
	After the meeting was over President
Howarth requested the people to stay, and
refreshments were served to about 350
parents and children.
				Eva Symons, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
U. W. P. C.
	The U. W. P. C. held its regular meet-
ing in the office of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
Saturday evening, April 29, 1899.
	Opening prayer by Dr. Romania B.
Pratt, after which the secretary called the
roll, responses being given by quotations
from Mrs. Heman’s poems. The corres-
ponding secretary then read two communi-
cations, one from Mrs. Randall of Ogden,
the other from the U. F. W. C. asking
our club to take the initiative step
in calling together the representatives of
the Salt Lake clubs to pursue some line of
educational work which will benefit the
schools of our city. A motion was made
by Mrs. Wells and seconded by Mrs. Freeze
that a special meeting for this purpose be
called, the EXPONENT office being the
place, and the time, Thursday, May 11,
3 p. m. Carried.
	Mrs. Clark then read an interesting
poem, followed by a well prepared talk on
the scenery in southern Utah. “Indian
Customs” by Mrs. M. A. Freeze. Dr. R. B.
Pratt read Mrs. Rhodes’ paper on “The
Cliff Dwellers,” dainty refreshments were
served and a pleasant social hour enjoyed
by all present. The meeting then ad-
journed.
			AIMEE C. SCHILLER, Sec. 
		SPECIAL MEETING.
	Pursuant to a call from the U. W. P. C.
the representatives of the different clubs
met in the EXPONENT office, Thursday,
May 11. The object of the meeting was
to decide upon some line of educational
work in the clubs that would benefit the
schools of our city. Mrs Lydia D. Alder
presided, Mrs. Aimee C. Schiller was
secretary.
	Miss Adella Snow for the Reviewers said
they would leave it to the discretion of the
educational committee. They were willing
to co-operate with other clubs, especially
interested in kindergarten work and sanita-
tion.
	Mrs. Windsor, of the Woman’s Club,
stated that her club contemplated starting
another free kindergarten, to be under the
care and supervision of members of club.
[Column 2]
	Mrs. E. B. Wells, of the Press Club,
reported that the club was willing to do
whatever seemed best. Pictures might be
given to brighten and beautify the school
rooms, but in her opinion the sanitary con-
ditions were most necessary.
	Mrs. Sarah Stewart, representing the
Author’s Club, said all the members of the
club were deeply interested in kindergar-
ten work, but lack of time prevents them
from taking many active steps.
	Mrs. R. G. McNeice, of the W. C. T. U.,
desired that the work assigned to her club
be the distribution of temperance literature
in the schools. A motion was made and
carried that her club be instructed to under-
take this noble work.
	Mrs. J. C. E. King, of the Ladies’ Liter-
ary Club, stated that their work in the edu-
cational was chiefly in the kindergarten
line.
	The other representatives, of the Cleofan
and Reaper's, all agreed that kindergarten
work and sanitation should be the first
steps to be considered. Each club agreed
to take in charge one or two schools of the
city, and investigate so as to be able to re-
port at the fall meeting. The meeting then
adjourned sine die.
				AIMEE C. SCHILLER.


THE PEACE CONFERENCE.
	The Hague, May 20.—The second sit-
ting of the Peace Conference took place
this morning and lasted thirty-five minutes.
	The president of the conference, Baron
De Staal, read the replies of the Czar and
Queen Wilhelmina to the telegrams sent
them by the conference on Thursday.
	M. De Staal announced today that the
government of the Netherlands would give
an artistic fete on June 16, in honor of the
conference.
	Several of the chief delegates are leaving
The Hague for a few days, pending the
preliminary work of the commission.
Baron De Staal, during the course of the
day, received the following dispatch:
	“The emperor begs you to be the interpret-
er to the conference of his sincere thanks
and warmest wishes.
	“My august master charges me to im-
press upon your excellency how much his
majesty is touched by the telegram ad-
dressed to him.
"MURAVIEF."


MRS. CORNELIUS STEVENSON is one of a 
committee of three appointed to arrange for 
a representation of the University of Penn-
sylvania at the Paris Exposition in 
1900.
MRS. HANNAH J. BAILEY, Superintendent 
of the Department of Peace and Arbitration, 
the officers of the National W. C. T. U. 
and the presidents of all the state W. C. T.
U.’s, has sent letters to the members of 
the Peace Conference voicing their appre-
ciation of the peace sentiments expressed by 
the Czar, and praying that effectual means 
may be found for bringing about and 
maintaining universal peace. 
IN a few days the women of Baltimore 
will present to Admiral Schley an album 
and a beautiful silver service, consisting of 
six pieces—cream jug, sugar bowl, teapot, 
urn, slop jar and water pitcher. On the 
bottom of each piece will be engraved the 
initial "S." Each piece is made from a


special design, which is to be destroyed, so
that there will be no reproduction of it.
The engraving on the various pieces is said
to be a splendid specimen of repouseé
work. The album has two covers, the
outside being of kangaroo leather, on
which is inscribed, in silver letters, “Win-
field Scott Schley, 1899.” On the inside
cover, which is of white satin, is the in-
scription, “Winfield Scott Schley, Rear
Admiral, United States Navy, 1899." The
album is of white satin, lined with blue
satin.


Save Your Money! 
And when you get a dollar, deposit it 
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust 
Company, the oldest and largest savings 
bank in Utah. 
Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts. 
The laws of Utah permit married 
women and also children who are minors 
to open savings accounts in their own 
name, subject to their own order. Have 
you such an account? If not, open 
one NOW. 
We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said 
interest four times a year. 
WRITE for any information desired. 
LORENZO SNOW, Prest. 
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier 
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street. 

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St. 
SALT LAKE CITY. 

The Leading Retail 
Cash House. 
R.K. THOMAS 

OREGON SHORT LINE RAILROAD. 

TIME TABLE IN EFFECT MARCH 19, 1899.
ARRIVE. 
From Ogden, Chicago, Omaha, St. Louis, Kansas City 
	and Denver...........................................................3:30 a.m. 
From Ogden, Cache Valley, Portland, Butte and San
	Franscico.......................................................8:55 a.m.
From Ogden, Chicago, St. Louis, Omaha and Denver 3:05 p.m.
From Ogden, Cache Valley and San Francisco...........7:20 p.m.
**From Frisco, Milford, Sanpete and intermediate 
	points...........................................................................9:35 a.m.
From Tintic, Mercur and intermediate points.............6:30 p.m.
*From Tooele and Terminus.......................................6:00 p.m.
DEPART. 
For Ogden, Park City, Omaha, Chicago, Denver, Kan-
	sasCity and St. Louis................................................7:00 a.m. 
For Ogden, Cache Valley and intermediate points.....8:00 a.m.
**For Tintic, Mercur and intermediate points............7:30 a.m. 
For Ogden, Denver, St. Louis, Chicago, San Francisco 6:40 p.m. 
For Ogden, Butte, Portland, San Francisco...................9:45 a.m. 
**For Provo, Sanpete, Milford and Frisco....................5:30 p.m.
*For Tooele and Terminuus...........................................7:45 a.m.
	**Trains south of Juab do not run Sundays.
	*Daily except Sunday. 
City Ticket Office Under Masonic Hall,
Second South Street. 
S. W. ECCLES, D E. BURLEY, 
Gen. Traffic Manager. Gen. P. and T. Agent 
W. H. BANCROFT. 
Vice President and Gen'l Manager.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 28. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 15, 1899 No. 2.


CONTENTS. 
Aunt Esther’s Sweetheart..........Aunt Em 9.
A Windy Day................     Little Sister. 11.
A Woman Missionary. ...Mrs. Addison Pratt 12. 
International Council.... May Wright Sewall 13.
Obituary....................M. E. Little 15.
Peace Meeting, Orangeville. Josie E. Childs 15.
R. S. Reports,—Josepa....Ellen Halemanu 15.
	Emery.,.................. Mrs. Stevens 16.
Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting.. J. A. Woolley 16.

EDITORIAL: “The First of June” 1899 at Salt-
	air,....................L. L. G. R. 12.

POETRY: At the Fall of the Curtain.. L. M. H. 9.
	The River of Life.......Lydia D. Alder 11.


AT THE FALL OF THE CURTAIN.

The curtain’s falling and the lights bum low,
So with God’s help I'm ready now to go;
I’ve seen life’s melodrama, paid the price,
Have known its loves and losses, hopes and fears,
The laughter and the tears.

And now, God knows, I would not see it twice !
I've crossed life’s ocean, faced its blinding foam,
And with four anchors cast, I’m nearing home.
And tho’ a storm-tossed hull I reach the shore,
A thing of tattered sheets and broken spars,
Naked against the stars,
I soon shall be at peace forevermore.

For if again I pass these waters through,
I know the kingdom I am sailing to,
What matters where the body lies—’neath sod,
Or down the dark impenetrable deep
Where the way-worn seaman sleeps?
All gates are good thro’ which we pass to God.
The night is dark, but God is in command;
And when the morning breaks I shall be “at the
	land."

Four anchors I cast out, Patience, Faith, Hope,
	Love !
O wisdom infinite! O Light-divine! 
How can I feel one fluttering doubt with anchors
	such as these cast out?
In His dear hand they’ll stay, I’ll wish and wait
	for day. 
	They cast out four anchors from the stern, and
waited for the day.—Acts 25th, 27th. 
			L. M. H.


[Column 1]
AUNT ESTHER’S SWEETHEART.
BY AUNT EM.

	“Auntie.” said a beautiful young girl,
in an absent-minded sort of way, turning 
half around on the piano stool, and with-
out raising her eyes from the floor, “I’m
tired, of this sort of thing, I want a change;
can’t we go somewhere or give a party;
can’t you suggest some amusement to pass 
away the time? Whv, I’ve not even had 
a letter for days, and that stupid brother of 
mine is having a jolly time of it at Har-
vard, while I’m here at home, day after day 
going through the same dull routine. Oh,
I’m weary, I’d even like to get married, if 
I could have an offer that suited me!”
	“Is that all, Alice? Have you no other 
complaints to make?” said her self-possessed 
aunt in reply. The girl looked a little 
crest-fallen, and without a word turned 
around and went on with her practicing. 
Her aunt, who was a wise and thoughtful 
woman, went on with her sewing as if 
nothing had been said; a long silence fol-
lowed, though the truth was Aunt Esther
didn’t know exactly what answer to make;
it was altogether new for her niece to burst 
forth so excitedly and it took the quaint 
little lady by surprise.

[Column 2]
	Alice sat playing a while longer, and
then came forward toward the fire, which 
was burning brightly, and seating herself 
comfortably in a lower rocker in the corner, 
began to stir the coals with the poker; a 
custom many people have when perplexed; 
the equanimity of her aunt was too much
for her; she wanted her to speak, say she 
had been rude, then she would have apolo-
gized; but to see her sit there so complacent-
ly stitching away, taking no notice of her 
vexation, was unaccountable to one so im-
pulsive. Finally she burst out again. 
	“Auntie, we are always going on in this 
humdrum way, for all the world like two 
old maids. You are not old if you are a 
widow, and I—well I am just twenty-two,
and have never yet had a real beau; I want 
some attention, some companionship.”
	“My dear,” said her aunt, “how long is 
it since we came home from the sea shore,
where you danced, and waltzed, and sang 
and took in all the gayeties of the season, 
until you were tired and wanted to come 
home to the Wren’s Nest, isn’t that so?”
	“Yes, Auntie, I did want to come home, 
thanks to your judicious training, because 
there was so much deception and hypo-
crisy there, and such ‘shilly shally’ girls,
and unprincipled young men, and old ones 
too for that matter, and mercenary, manag-
ing mammas, and all that; it was simply 
disgusting to sensible people.”
	“And that was society, Alice, the best
society, we are informed; and certainly if
wealth and extravagance are the standards
by which the ‘best society’ is estimated, it
must have been.”
	“Yes, Auntie, they were rich, I suppose, 
and they were proud and arrogant, but 
they were also ill-bred, some of them at 
least. Oh, I learned some lessons in the 
ways of the world that I shall never forget; 
and I did not hesitate to tell one young 
lady, who carried on a flirtation under my
very eyes, what my brother would have 
thought of her conduct, and she begged me 
to keep the matter secret. But a truce to 
this, we’ve talked of these things before,
I am positively pining for some one to talk 
to; I know you’re good company, and al-
ways amiable, but there’s no variety in our 
way of living. We’ve got lots of relatives,
let’s go and visit some of them, while
Harry’s at college; when he comes home 
everything will be different, he can take us 
out, and we shall have more society; it
won’t be near so lonely here then, he’s al-
ways so lively.”
	“Alice, what about the country cousins, 
do you remember where we used to visit 
when you and they were children?”
	“Yes, I recollect some of those quaint old 
places up among the New England hills,
they’re very nice in summer time, but 
what about winter, how would it be then?”
	“There’s skating and sleigh-riding, and
winter pastimes, of course; but you must 
choose, it is for your pleasure we shall go.”
	“Aunt Esther, are there any young peo-
ple at these places you think of—would it
be interesting in that way?”
	“In what way, Alice?”
	“Why, would there be any love

[Column 3]
making, or any chance of getting a good
husband?”
	“Alice, you astonish me; but just 
now you were deprecating the ways of 
those girls at the sea-shore, and now you 
are talking in much the same strain.”
	“But I am in earnest, I am going to mar-
ry some great, big-hearted, honest young 
fellow, that has never been in society; 
such as I had a glimpse of last season; and 
that reminds me, Auntie, that you have 
had a kind of romance in your life, I’ve
heard Polly say so; and you never say a 
word about it, nor your married life either, 
though for that matter I never asked you,
never thought of it in fact until now; will 
you tell me the story? It must be an inter-
esting chapter out of your history.”
	Before Aunt Esther had time to reply to 
this rapid questioning, a knock was heard 
at the parlor door and in came Polly with a 
handful of letters, and in the excitement
Alice forgot what she had said to dear
little Auntie, as she called her, and began
examining the postmarks, a habit with wom-
en it is said. “Here’s such a queer 
stamp; I do wonder where this letter’s
from? Some rich old uncle I hope, asking us 
to come for the holidays,” exclaimed Alice.
Then she took up the one she knew to be 
from her brother, and hurriedly broke the 
seal. While she sat reading it and tapping 
her dainty little feet on the carpet every 
now and then, a way she had when over-
joyed, Aunt Esther was busy perusing a 
letter that looked even more foreign than 
the one Alice had laid down. 
	In the midst of the reading a carriage 
drove up and visitors were announced, Mr. 
and Mrs. Elmore with their two daughters, 
and the letters were put aside; and the two 
ladies busied themselves entertaining their 
guests during the remainder of the after-
noon. The Elmores were neighbors of 
theirs, and very nice people indeed. The 
girls were near Alice’s age, and were both 
bright and clever. The afternoon sped 
swiftly away, and Alice had actually for-
gotten the letters, so absorbed was she with 
the conversation of their visitors. 
	Aunt Esther urged their guests to stay 
and dine with them, waiving ceremony, 
and they finally consented, so that it was 
nine o’clock or thereabouts before they 
were alone. The evening had been a 
pleasant one, and Alice was in the best of 
spirits, having thoroughly enjoyed the 
society of these neighbors, who had so much 
to say that was worth listening to. One of 
the young ladies was a fine singer and was 
much admired by Harry, who was passion-
ately fond of music, as indeed were both
Aunt Esther and Alice. Miss Elmore had
been singing, during the evening, one of 
Aunt Esther’s old favorites that had carried 
her back in memory to her girlhood days, 
and these words of the song kept ringing in 
her ears:
“Oh, no, we never mention him, his name is never
	heard,
My lips are now forbid to speak that once familiar
	word.”
	Aunt Esther, so calm and self-contented to 
all appearance, would have given almost any-


[Column 1]
thing to have been alone for a few minutes,
that she might weep to relieve her pent-up
feelings; but even when the guests had de-
parted Alice was there, and she must not
give way. The reading of the letters was
resumed, and for a while silence reigned.
What a pretty picture the two ladies made
in that elegant room! Alice was tall and
slender in figure, a perfect blond in com-
plexion, and this evening she wore a dress
of soft, pale blue merino, trimmed with
dainty lace, and as she sat reading, one
might have gazed in admiration, “and
turned and come again to take his fill” of
her rare beauty; every now and then
she spoke to Auntie and her countenance
would lighten to a glow, as she repeated
some of Harry’s witty and shrewd com-
ments upon his college life. Aunt Esther
was one of those peculiar types of women,
so difficult to describe that we term them
“a perfect study;” small in figure, dark
almost olive complexion, purplish or blue
black hair, large gray eyes; many people
considered her plain, but she was attractive,
possessed of that indescribable charm which
for want of a better term we call magnetic.
This evening she wore a gray dress of
some soft material trimmed with scarlet
velvet, and bending over her letters she
looked as much a picture as the young girl
who sat opposite; and Alice, chancing to
notice it, astonished her by saying, "Aunt
Esther, you look so charming tonight,
your very soul seems to be looking forth
out of your eyes. I wish you had a sweet-
heart, it’s such a lonely life to live; how long
since Uncle Herbert died?”
	"Ten years and over,” replied the little
woman, without once lifting her eyes.
Somehow her voice sounded strangely to
Alice, and as she looked she saw tears fall
upon the letter her aunt had been reading,
but which seemed to have dropped from
her hand. Alice knew her aunt was un-
demonstrative, and would not inquire what
made her sad, but thought it was her ill-
timed allusion to her uncle’s death; little
she knew the chord she had touched, that
made such discord in the heart of this staid
and demure little woman.
	The letters were finished and both ladies
drew nearer to the fire and resumed con-
versation, as all do who love each other,
just before separating for the night.
	"Alice, my dear, was your unknown
letter from some rich uncle—an invitation
for the holidays?”
	"No, Aunt, it was from old Mr. Brown
whom we met at the seaside last summer,
and funniest of all (for you remember how
I snubbed him) contained an offer of mar-
riage, the first one I ever had; (audacious
fellow!) tells me he loves me, and that he’s
worth half a million, all in one paragraph.
I wouldn’t marry him if he were worth
three millions; he’s a scoundrel, been in
society thirty years or more and divorced
a wife. Marry old Brown! I’d rather be
an old maid and stay with you all my days,
Auntie; you’ll never marry again, I don’t
suppose, though you’re much more fasci-
nating than most young girls, and know a
great deal more. Is that the reason they
call widows dangerous, I wonder? I’ve
often heard the expression, and couldn’t
imagine why it was used, for you are the
only young widow I have ever really been
acquainted with, and I’m sure you are the
most inoffensive and reserved, and the
very best little Auntie in all the world.”
As she finished her remark she rose and

[Column 2]
threw her arms around Aunt Esther’s neck
and deluged her with kisses.
	When Polly came in to inquire what
orders her mistress had to give before re-
tiring, Mrs. Danforth replied, “Nothing
tonight, but we are going away in a day or
two, so all our plans will be changed, and
we can dispense with some of the help for
the present; and Polly, would you like to
go anywhere on a visit?”
	“No, Mrs. Dantforth, I will stay and
take care of the house while you’re absent,
and Ben, of course you’ll retain him for
outside work; we two can do very well, and
it will save some expense.”
	“All right Polly, it’s very kind of you to
be so careful on my account; then I think
we shall pack up tomorrow, and go away
the next morning; good night, Polly.”
	“Alice,” said her aunt when they were
alone again, “I think I shall go to my sis-
ter’s in M—. Do you remember the
famous, rambling old country house with
the great, wide pastures? It was called
‘The Meadows.’ ”
	“You mean Aunt Jane’s. I remember it
a little, we used to play under the great
elm trees. Wasn’t there a lot of children?”
	“Seven, I believe, and they are none of
them married; you will not be lonely with
all these young people; at any rate we’ll
try it; I have not been there for many
years, never since my widowhood.” And
Aunt Esther paused for a moment, the
word seemed to stick in her throat. “It’s a
long way off, and we need not wait to send
them word, I am sure of a welcome, for
your Uncle William is one of the most hos-
pitable men I have ever known.”
	“Then, Auntie, that’s settled, and I
want you to tell me that romantic story of
your own life. Polly knows something
about it, so of course there is a story.”
	“What nonsense has Polly been filling
your foolish little head with, some servant’s
gossip I suppose?”
	“Oh no, Aunt Esther, this is quite differ-
ent, and if you don’t promise to tell me I
shall ask Polly to tell me before we go to
Aunt Jane’s, because one day she said to
me long ago: ‘Alice, you’re a lovely girl,
but not so attractive as your Aunt Esther
was; she has a history;’ and I wonder
Auntie that I never have teased you to tell
me the story.”
	“Do you see,” said her aunt, pointing to
the clock on the mantle, “it is after mid-
night, and we shall have a great deal to do
tomorrow; you really must go to bed now,
and forget all this foolishness about your
Auntie. It is quite enough for you to
know me as I am now and to judge me
upon my real merits, and not listen to
Polly’s insinuations; she’s over fond of me,
and her imagination carries her away
sometimes.”
	Alice was sleepy, and therefore bade her
aunt good night willingly; and Esther
Danforth sat there alone brooding over the
past that had been so vividly recalled to
her mind that day. For years there had
not been such a sealed fountain opened in
her soul as on that particular day. It
seemed as though that letter had brought
the past with it, not only to Esther herself,
but Polly and Alice seemed full of the
same reminiscences. She would not ac-
knowledge to herself that she had been
persuaded to marry for money, though the
world said so, the world in which she re-
volved; and tonight as she sat thinking, she
drew the letter from her pocket, the letter
that had excited Polly’s curiosity, and

[Column 3]
which seemed to have changed her plans
suddenly.
	“Shall I burn it?” she said to herself.
“I scarcely dare keep it. I am sure Polly
recognized the writing,” and as she solilo-
quized thus, she opened the letter, and was
again perusing its contents.  Looking over
her shoulder we might easily read it too,
for she held it wide open, and gazed as if
entranced. It ran thus:
My Precious Darling:
	I shall sail for America in a few days; I have
made definite arrangements; shall go by way of
London to transact some business there, and then
for Boston. In a few hours after arriving I shall
come to you, and learn my fate. I can no longer
endure this dreadful suspense; it is years since I
wrote you that first impassioned letter, after I
learned that you were free—free from that terrible
bondage of the heart. You answered me as
though you were an icicle, or that your heart
was frozen; but I know you better; you are mine;
and your own heart will bear you witness when
you read these burning words. You cannot forget
if you would the glorious past, the recollection of
which has hung over me during all these years of
banishment, like a rainbow of promise. I have
still the pledge of your devotion, given me on that
May morning when we plighted our troth under
the apple boughs, and I shall never part with it.
The last time I wrote—you answered me in doubt—
it gave mp some encouragement because you said,
“Wait, when the children I have charge of are not
dependent upon me for a home, I may consider
your proposal.” Must duty to the children of
your dead brother forever debar you from fulfill-
ing the pledge of your love to the living—to one
who has waited for you all these years—that he
might take you to his heart and shelter you there
forever? Esther, I am coming, and from your
own sweet lips I must hear the words that shall
decide my fate, my future life.
	Disguise your true self as you may to others,
you cannot deceive me; by my own strength of
affection I measure yours. I will not ask you to
answer me here, it would be too long to wait,
should you say yes; and so—farewell until we
shall meet, sweetest, dearest.
Your old sweetheart,
SIDNEY MANNING.
	Poor Aunt Esther, she read the letter
again and again, and her tears poured hot
and fast—she sobbed as if her heart would
break. “What shall I say to him when he
comes? How can I meet him again after
all these years? I dare not confess my
love, that has outlived everything. I will
not see him, I will go away, I shall not be
able to withstand his pleading!” Not-
withstanding her mental resolve, she folded
up the letter that had caused all this tumult
of feeling and put it in her bosom, and as she
passed out of the room and ascended the
staircase she moaned, and every now and
then she leaned her head upon the balu-
strade and would have fallen but for its
support. Little sleep for her that night;
while Alice, who was wholly heart-free,
slept the sweet sleep of youth and inno-
cence. How true the poet’s words:
“Tired nature’s sweet restorer, balmy sleep; he,
	like the world,
His ready visit pays, when fortune smiles; the
	wretched he forsakes;
Swift on his downy pinions, flies from grief,
And lights on lids unsullied with a tear.”
	The household were early astir the next
morning, for Polly, the faithful friend, had
been almost as wakeful as her mistress, and
the day was a busy one with preparations
for the journey and the necessary changes;
the trunks were packed and strapped and
traveling bags made ready, and Esther Dan-
forth, like one in a dream, went from room
to room to see that all was safe. “This
was his home,” she muttered under her
breath, “my husband’s;” and a cold shiver
ran through her veins; “and I was almost
persuaded to leave it once, but my good


[Column One]
angel stood by and saved me—and Polly,
dear, good girl, she helped me to bear it
all. I came here a bride from the church
door, with showers of congratulations;
what a wretched creature I was; with my
breaking heart and my broken vows; and
Sidney, I did not even dare to think what
would become of him. I was young then,
so very young to be an old man’s bride;
and he knew I did not love him, but he
was ever kind, too kind, and he left all
his wealth to me—only I must not marry
Sidney Manning—there it is in his will,
and it was read that day, when all the
family were there. What a reproach to me
and how they all stared, until I fainted.
I must not marry Sidney Manning ! No,
though my heart should break; not be-
cause of the money—what do I care for the
money; yet it has been a blessing to my
brother’s children, left orphaned and desti-
tute,” and Esther Danforth sank upon her
knees, there in the pale moonlight, be-
seeching heaven to guide her footsteps; and
her prayer was answered.
	The journey occupied two days and
nights; for those were not the times of
steam and rapid transit. At the close of
the second day they reached their destina-
tion. It was a bright, clear, moonlight
night, and the great wide-spreading elms
stretched out their branches, as if to wel-
come and shelter them	The greetings
were affectionate, and Alice was quite de
lighted at the reception she received; it was
so genuine and cordial. The travelers
were tired and glad to go rather early to
bed, especially as they were aware that, as
they were in the country, they would be
expected to rise early.
	Time passed quickly with Alice; there
was so much that was new and pleasant,
and the three young men, her cousins, vied
with each other in planning fresh sur-
prises for her amusement. Aunt Esther
was visiting in a quiet way with her sister,
from whom she had been so long separated,
there were so many things to tell each other
and it was nearing Christmas, and a grand
party was to be given in honor of the visit
of Mrs. Danforth and her niece. Aunt
Jane, as Mrs. Wetherell was called, was
half sister only to Aunt Esther and Alice’s
father, and was some years older she was a
very estimable woman and religious in her
nature; had studied the Bible and sought to
comprehend its meaning. Of late, a new
light had shone across her pathway, and
she had been so impressed with the divine
source from which it came, that she was
making a careful and prayerful examina-
tion of the teachings she had received from
the messengers who came to her with glad
tidings. Her husband was investigating
the doctrine too, and ere long they unfolded
the views they entertained to Aunt Esther.
Contrary to their expectations, she seemed
to grasp these new truths more quickly
than they had done, and it was a confirma-
tion to them that the doctrine was from
heaven. Aunt Esther had gone into the
country place with a broken heart, asking
help from One above, and so completely
humble was she, that she was ready to re-
ceive heavenly truths; in fact she scarcely
needed preaching to, her mind was so clear
on the subjects presented to her by her sis-
ter and her husband.
	The young men were somewhat favorably
impressed with the new doctrines, and had
talked to Alice about the everlasting Gos-
pel, but none of them as yet had been bap-
tized, they were waiting for some Elders,

[Column Two]
who were shortly to pay them a visit and
preach to the people in that vicinity.
	The “Mormon” Elders soon came to
M——, and Mr. Wetherell, who was a
man of considerable influence, tried to get a
hall or meeting house for them to preach in;
but he met with many obstacles in his
efforts that he had not previously antici-
pated; jealousy and tradition were rife in
the hearts of those who were opposed, and
the good man at last decided that the meet-
ing should be at his own place, “The
Meadows.” The house was large and
roomy, and he had expected to entertain as
his guests those who would come to preach
and baptize. All the people in the neigh-
borhood were cordially invited, and many
came to the meetings, and some few con-
verts were baptized and confirmed after two
days’ meetings had been held. Among
those who were baptized were Mr. and Mrs.
Wetherell, Mrs. Danforth and Alice May-
nard and the three sons and four daughters
of the host and hostess of “The Meadows.”
There were eight others baptized and many
more believing. Among the latter was a
young man whom Miss Alice greatly ad-
mired; he had already shown her some
marked attention, and her resolve to marry
some honest, big-hearted fellow was in a
fair way of fulfillment. He was a fine
figure, large and well proportioned, and his
education had not been neglected, even
though he was a farmer’s son, and lived
among the New England hills. He rather
astonished Miss Alice one day by telling
her he had never been in Boston; but she
recovered herself quickly and replied, “she
was glad of it.” Not but that she was
proud of Boston too, but somehow she
liked him better as he was; better than she
ever thought she could like any of the
young men she had met at the capital.
	Meantime both Aunt Esther and Alice
wrote to Harry of the religion they had em-
braced; they were full of zeal and desirous
that he should become a convert. But he
was at that time under quite a different in-
fluence, and his answers to their letters
were very unsatisfactory; but they did not
lose courage. Alice was using all her elo-
quence at home to persuade Richaid Ash-
burn to join the Church of Latter-day
Saints, and her efforts were not in vain; be-
fore many days she had the satisfaction of
knowing that he had espoused the same
religious faith.
		[To be continued.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A WINDY DAY. 
	The fourth of May was the day appointed 
for a reunion at Idaho Falls, a reunion of 
the Relief Society workers in the Stake. 
	In spite of the dreadful storm that pre-
vailed the meeting house was comfortably 
filled. For my part, I would have given up 
the idea of driving the seven miles there, 
but for the fact that I had promised to call 
for two other sisters on the way; so for that 
reason, and as I had my picnic all prepared,
I thought I would venture, hoping that the 
storm would diminish before long. How-
ever, when I came within two miles of the 
Falls, the clouds of dust were so thick and 
dense that twice I could not see the horses'
heads, and could not tell whether they 
were keeping the road or not.
	I do not know when I was so surprised 
at anything as I was to see a few young 
mothers with babes in their arms at that 
meeting. True it is that when the Mor-
mon people make an appointment, they do


not allow anything to prevent them from 
fulfilling it. 
	Sister Bennett said she was sorry that 
two of the sisters whose names were on the 
program were not there, on account of a 
small fire that had occurred in that town in 
the morning. She also spoke of the dance 
that was to convene at eight o’clock in the 
evening, said she thought eight o’clock
was a good time to commence a dance, as 
she, with others, regretted that so many 
dances up here in Idaho did not commence 
until ten o’clock and after; for her part, all 
the enthusiasm for a dance was about gone 
at that hour. 
	When my daughter was up here last 
summer on a visit, she remarked how late 
the young people’s dances took up, and 
said they commenced earlier in Taylorsville.
I said I wished the young people would 
take that step, it would be a step in the 
right direction, for it was a great tax on 
their bodies, especially when they had to 
go to school or to work the next day.
Sometimes it is three or four o’clock be-
fore the dances break up, and perhaps some 
of them have an hour’s drive before they 
get home. If they were obliged to do it 
they would think they were misused. But 
most of them wait for the rest; they must 
talk this up among themselves, and then 
the wisest will take the lead and this late 
hour system will, I hope, be an event of 
the past. 
				LITTLE SISTER.


THE RIVER OF LIFE. 
Broad and majestic gleams its broad bosom,
As rippling it flows to the setting sun;
Ships sail upon it so jaunty and gay—
Their course on the journey has just begun. 
The glint of the sun above the horizon, 
Softly touching their white fluttering sails,
In glory soon bursts dispersing the shadows,
And never the shore wind stops or fails.

Laughter and song, floating out amid music,
Are borne o’er the water, so clear, so blue;
Other ships that are sailing can hear them,
Then join in their dancing and melody too.
From their decks are seen wrecks far away,
Of ships that were fair and oft braved the gale;
Now they are broken, rudderless, wand’ring,
How piteous and sad, how mournful the tale. 

Still onward are sailing some ships of the Past,
Nor song, nor music is heard on them more;
Some whirl with the tide where waters fast foam,
And sink out of sight not far from the shore.
The flap of the sails, the large broken bow,
That brilliantly shone and glistened at morn,
'Neath darkening waves sinks from mortal eyes,
A wreck, a wreck, bright hopes are dead and
	forlorn.

Some still sail stately, standing proud to the breeze,
And over the breakers come safe at last;
Riding into the harbor rejoicing,
For the storms of life overcome, are past.
In the shining waters of heaven’s smooth river,
Safely they anchor under clear, sunny skies,
The shore so fair in the dreamy distance,
Is the glorious land—the fair Paradise.
				LYDIA D. ALDER
May, 1899.


MRS. JULIA WARD HOWE made one of 
the most eloquent speeches at the women’s
great anti-lynching meeting. 
	QUEEN VICTORIA has given orders that 
henceforward the British Museum shall be 
open to the public on Sundays and holi-
days. 
	SUSAN MUNROE STOWE contributes to 
the Youth’s Companion an article on “Har-
riet Beecher Stowe as a Mother.” It is full 
of tender reminiscences.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah,
Terms; one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months.
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel 
space one time $2.50; per month. $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every 
day, except Sunday. 
Address all business communications to
			Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as 
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 15, 1899


[Column 1]
“THE FIRST OF JUNE,” 1899, AT SALTAIR.

	The day was not so fair and beautiful as
the celebrating relatives and friends of the
honored and beloved Prophet, President
Brigham Young, might have wished for
his ninety-eighth birthday. But notwith-
standing the fact that sudden gusts of wind
and intermittent rain showers prevented a
great many from venturing out to the Lake,
there were still many hundreds that did
venture, and were well paid for doing so.
And when it is taken into consideration
that Sister Zina D. H. Young was at Salt-
air, the place appointed for the great cele-
bration, from 10 a. m. until 7 p. m., and
received no harm but was feeling quite
well the next day, it is easy to believe that
no participant received anything but good
from the day’s outing.
	A description of how the tables were
spread and the edibles served and enjoyed,
or of the dancing and gaiety with which
the celebration closed at 10 in the evening,
can hardly be given space in this brief
notice. Those pleasant festivities, however,
will long be remembered with peculiar
satisfaction by many of the younger and
gayer portion of the committee. And the
program proper was excellent.
	At three o’clock when Elder B. Morris
Young announced that the program was
about to commence, a happy circumstance
occurred for rather a small part of the
listeners. It was that they found them-
selves in comfortable seats near enough to
the stand to be able to hear distinctly what
would be said from it. The only regret
then for such ones was that so many of
their friends were not equally well provided
for.
	Some of the members of the Temple choir
with their conductor, Brother Charles J.
Thomas, opened the exercises by singing
President Young’s favorite hymn, “O, my
Father,” in the old, familiar tune to which
it was first sung. This brought tender re-
membrances of childhood’s days, when
“little Mormons” learned to sing those
soul-inspiring words in their humble homes,
and to better understand their true relation-
ship to Deity because of the grand lesson
they so plainly teach. To one “little Mor-
mon,” at least, those lines were a first intro-
duction to the name of their gifted author,
Eliza R. Snow.
	After prayer by Elder Royal B. Young,
and singing again by the choir. Apostle 
Brigham Young made a short but feeling

[Column 2]
address, in which reference was gratefully
made to the appropriateness of the gather-
ing in honor of his father’s memory. And
he blest the people much as his father used
to do in such assemblies.
	Apostle F. M. Lyman told of the great
love the Prophet Brigham Young had for
his people, his wisdom in leading them,
and the consequent love and confidence
the people always felt and manifested to-
wards him. Choice selections by the band
were next rendered.
	Senator Joseph L. Rawlins claimed for
Brigham Young the right of recognition as
a great man, not only among his own peo-
ple, not only in his own nation, but in the
history of mankind; and said that ere long
his statue would be placed alongside of
those of other great men in the statuary
hall at Washington. The enduring super-
structure upon which this State—regarded
as one of the most substantial, intelligent
and progressive in the Union—has been
erected, the Senator attributed to the wise
and earnest teachings of Brigham Young to
his people.
	Governor Heber M. Wells, in tender,
loving memories of his “great, dear, kind
Uncle Brigham,” his “father’s best friend,”
spoke the sentiments of a large majority of
the people of Utah who were little children
in the early days of its settlement. The
tribute he paid to Brigham Young’s great-
ness and goodness, the grandeur of his
character, gave voice to the impressions
which are stamped indelibly upon the
hearts of thousands and tens of thousands
of those who were children thirty, forty and
fifty years ago. Of the greatness of Presi-
dent Young as a leader, a statesman and
builder, and his goodness as a kind and
wise father of his people, and friend of man-
kind, nothing seemed to be omitted in the
Governor’s remarks. It was clearly shown
that none but a large-souled, generous and
pure-hearted man, highly favored, inspired
and endowed with power from on high,
could have been what Brigham Young was,
or accomplished the work which he did.
	Judge Kinney, who was chief justice of
Utah Territory some years in the Fif-
ties, and came here recently from California,
was introduced to the assembly and re-
ceived with warm applause. For he was
remembered by many as “a friend to Brig-
ham Young and his people,” an unusual
 thing for a government official in those
early days of misrepresentation and perse-
cution.
	By the Judge was given a character
sketch of President Young, illustrated by
telling incidents with which he was himself
personally connected. He placed the great
leader in the true light of a mighty man,
wise, just, honest and benevolent.
	While Judge Kinney related historic cir-
cumstances of more than forty years ago, a
certain copy of the Deseret News presented
itself to the mind’s eye, recalling vividly to
memory the fact that the Judge had, dur-
ing those days of his residing in Utah,
suffered a great loss which might have
helped to strengthen the bond of sympathy
which was created between himself and the
man of whom he was speaking. Surely he
had known sorrow, and evidently the voice
of sympathy found utterance for him. The
copy of the News referred to contained
something in connection with the name of
the speaker which made so deep an im-
pression upon the mind of a child as to be
distinctly remembered while listening to
his words, although not seen, perhaps

[Column 3]
not thought of, for years and years. The
well remembered article was as follows:

LINES
Affectionately inscribed to Judge and Mrs. Kin-
ney on the death of their little son Renfrew.
BY S. E. CARMICHEL.
THE BEAUTIFUL ONE WITH GOD.
“The roses bloom, the roses fade;
The sunlight comes and goes;
The moonbeams weave a silvery braid,
With the white, drifting snows.
But the call of spring will never bring,
Nor the smile of the morning wake,
The floweret fair with the shining hair,
That the angels came to take.
And never again will a path of pain
By his shuddering feet be trod;
There are no tears in the coming years,
For the beautiful one with God.

“The roses bloom, the roses fade,
Fade over his early sleep;
O’er the soft brow under the grasses laid,
Stilled by a calm so deep!
But the look of care on his forehead fair.
The smile that his bright lips wore, 
And the soul replies of his sunny eyes,
These are of earth no more.
These were not laid ’mid the grasses’ shade,
Nor pillowed beneath the sod;
And they live unveiled where the stars are
	paled,
With the beautiful one with God.”

	To conclude the program, Dr. Seymour
B. Young sang another favorite song of
President Young’s, “Hard times come
again no more,” the congregation joining
in the chorus. With this came pleasant
memories of how the doctor used to sing
in former days; and how our mothers have
told us of still earlier times, when the 
brother Joseph and Brigham were called
“The sweet singers of Zion.”
	The benediction was pronounced by
Stake President Angus M. Cannon.
	Although socially the celebration was an
admirable success, on account of the threat-
ening aspect of the weather the attendance
was not sufficient to secure financial satis-
faction The returns, if there were any,
after expenses were all paid, were so small
that the committees design making another
effort in the near future, to raise means by
which to assist in paying off the still re-
maining indebtedness for the Brigham
Young Monument.
	The fact that Presidents Lorenzo Snow
and Joseph F. Smith and several of the
Twelve Apostles were present at Saltair for
a portion of the day, should not be over-
looked, although none except those already
mentioned took part in the program.
						L. L. G. R.


A WOMAN MISSIONARY.
[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands 
1850.]
After exchanging tears and adieux six
wagons started on, twenty-four persons in
all, expecting to overtake a small company
at Bear river. We found the Weber river
high, the water running over the middle of
the bridge. We got safely over, called at
Brown’s Fort, where dinner was prepared
for us by a good sister whose name is
Abigail Abbot, a neighbor in Nauvoo. She
made me a present of a good cheese. Her
daughters accompanied us on horseback
several miles.
We came to Ogden river; had an almost
perpendicular hill to come down. The men
let the wagons down by the help of ropes;
had a severe time crossing the water. After
we crossed the bridge the wagons mired.
The men were in the water up to their
waists more than an hour. Mr. Tompkins
was wroth because some who got over first


[Column 1]
did not come back to help others. He had
cause to be angry. After we were out of
the water it began to rain severely. We
traveled three miles and camped at Brother
Chase's to wait for fair weather. We heard
afterwards the Weber bridge washed away
the night after we crossed over. Who can
say we did not cross in the right time?
	We came to Bear river; found President
Clark's company waiting for us. With
great exertion we got the cattle over; camped
on the bank.
	The 13th day we crossed Malad creek,
one of the most intolerable places my eyes
ever beheld. Cattle and men up to their
backs in mud for twenty rods and more.
What a world is this! thought I. Men
will travel over it, however impossible it
may seem to be. We got out of the mud
at last; camped at two o'clock. I have a
great aversion to camping before night. I
cannot feel well when a good day's drive
has not been accomplished.
	In the afternoon the company was organ-
ized, passing resolutions to keep the Sab-
bath day, likewise to have morning and
evening prayers. H. Clark was president;
W. Huntington, counselor. We have
music in the camp, two violins and a flute.
Besides there are many singing birds in this
country, which delighted me very much.
Now twenty four miles from Bear river, a
place of hills and dales. Sister C. Crosby
and I walked out among the hills. As we
were returning, two bullets whistled by our
heads; we started with fear! We came to
camp; found Hanks and Moses had been
firing guns for sport, not knowing any one
had gone out. They were admonished to
be more cautious. The evening was spent
in singing hymns and spiritual songs.
How comforting to have prayers in this
lonely spot of earth! What an idle life to
travel with ox teams! And yet no other
would do so well on such roads. I gaze
around me; see the wagons all corralled;
cattle lying down at night. Scenes of other
days come vividly to mind. What wander-
ing pilgrims we have been!
	The 18th day traveled twenty miles;
camped at three o'clock. I walked alone;
climbed upon a huge pile of rocks. From
their heights I had a full view of the sur-
rounding country. I called to mind the
lapse of ages those cragged rocks had re-
mained there! They were covered with
moss of various colors. I examined every
part of them with intense interest. I gazed
towards the valley, where I had left the
Saints; an ardent desire sprang up in my
heart that I might live to return to them.
	The 23rd, on account of the Cazyer river
being too high to be forded, we had to go
around the mountains. We came to camp
at four o'clock; called the place City Rocks.
We all went out on an exploring excursion;
returned fatigued, but much amused. The
beautiful white rocks resembling marble
made us wish they were in some location
where they could be made available.
	21st. We have been traveling over moun-
tains all day, the most delightful scenery
my eyes have ever beheld. Ridges of hills
of all sizes and shapes, variegated with
shrubbery, mostly cedar. The hills resem-
ble the orchards of New England. What a
prospect for a painter! I found stones I
called carnelian. White clay, of which the
boys made pipes, was found in quantities.
Snow storms overtook us; we could not
start till one o'clock. Mr. Tomkins found a
sheet-iron stove and gave it to me. I found
it very useful.

[Column 2]
	The 30th day, started very early, trav-
eled a short distance; came to a stream of
water called Martin's Fork. We found
written on a board, "Too deep to ford, re-
move your loading, prepare a wagon bed
for a boat." We did so and all got safely
over with hard labor. Very deep mire on
both sides. The brethren were all merry,
making a scene of amusement of it.
	The 31st, crossed one of the tributaries of
the St. Mary's river. Made a bridge of
willows, drew the wagons over by hand.
When the last wagon was over the men
commenced halloing at the top of their
voices. The next crossing was effected by
doubling teams.
	The 1st day of June crossed Martin's
Fork. The water being high, we took
everything from the bottom of our wagons
and piled them on our bedsteads; by that
means we got safely through. The same
day one of the Indian boys belonging to
the company put a can of powder into my
stove. Not for mischief; but coming in
from hunting, the stove being tied on the
outside, he thought to remove it as soon as
we came into camp, but, boy-like, he for-
got it. I built my fire and put my kettle
on. Once I removed the kettle, and lean-
ing over, stirred the fire. My cow was
grazing a little way off. An impression
came to me, as if some one had whispered,
"Walk out where your cow is and look at
her." I did so, and while I was standing
there I heard a report like a cannon fired.
I returned immediately, found my stove
blown over the top of a covered wagon. It
was crushed as with a sledge hammer. My
kettle was set upon the ground badly
bruised. The boy was severely repri-
manded, and I had serious reflections the
remainder of the day. The fact of my be-
ing warned to walk away from the spot an
instant before the explosion, caused me to
realize that a protecting care was held over
me, and that my guardian angel must have
been very near me, for which I felt thank-
ful. Some there were who felt as I did,
were serious over the affair. The more
giddy portion were disposed to ridicule the
effect it had upon me, and in their fool-
hardiness would laugh at the idea of being
solemn at the instance of so marvelous an
escape.
[To be continued.]


WGMAN'S EXPONENT. 13


[Column 1]

INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL.

DATES AND DISTRIBUTION OF MEETINGS.
The meetings will open on Monday,
June 26th, at 2:30 p. m., and will conclude
on Wednesday, July 5th, with a session con-
vened at 10 a. m.
The latest revised notes of the program
show that there will be five sessions of the 
International Council, as follows:
Monday, June 26th, 2:30 p. m., in the
Large Hall, Westminster Town Hall.
Wednesday, June 28th, 10 a. m., Coun-
cil Chamber Westminster Hall.
Thursday, June 29th, 10 a. m., Large
Hall, Westminster Town Hall.
Tuesday, July 4th, 10 a. m., Large Hall,
Westminster Town Hall.
Wednesday, July 5th, 10 a. m., place
not yet selected.
The International Congress, convened
under the auspices of the International
Council is divided into sections, as fol-
lows:
I. The Educational Section, which will
hold eleven meetings, most of which are

[Column 2]
set for the Large Hall in Westminster
Town Hall.
II. The Professional Section, which
will hold fifteen meetings in the Council
Chamber in Westminster Town Hall, and
in different apartments in St. Martin’s
Town Hall. 
IV. The Political Section, which will
hold five meetings in the Great Hall in St.
Martin’s Town Hall.
The Social Section, which will hold
eleven meetings, chiefly in the Convocation
Hall of Church House, Westminster.
The number of speakers, their representa-
tive positions, and: the different countries ot 
which they belong indicate a program of
unprecedented versatility and value.
Letters yet arrive by almost every mail
asking questions, which I shall seek to
answer in this article.
I. Who are eligible to attend meetings
of the Council and the Congress? The pub-
lic meetings of both, that is, the meetings
at which the programmes are rendered,
may be attended by anyone wishing to buy
tickets. The applicatio[-]s for these tickets
are in three forms:
(a) Is for ordinary tickets of member-
ship in the Congress, the price of which is
seven shillings and sixpence, or, in Ameri-
can currency, $1.75.
(b) May be applied for by any member
of any organization affiliated to any Nation-
al Council, the price of this is five shillings,
or in American currency, $1.25.
(c) May be applied for by any official
of any organization affiliated in any Nation-
al Council.
These forms may be had upon application
to the writer of this letter. The money
for tickets must in all cases be sent to the
Honorable Treasurer, from whom tickets
may be secured, International Congress
Fund, General Post Office, London.
These tickets, it will be understood, ad-
mit only to the public meetings. The
business meetings of the International
Council are only open to the following:
The officers of the International; the ac-
credited delegates from each National Con-
gress; the honorary president and delegates
from countries where no National Councils
are yet formed.
II. Who are the delegates to the Coun-
cil? Delegates may be sent to the Inter-
national Council only by National Councils
affiliated with the International Council.
Each National Council may send two dele-
gates, who, with its president, constitute
the sole representatives of the National
Council in the International. The Nation-
al Council of the United States will be rep-
resented in the International by Mrs. Fan-
nie Humphreys Gaffney of New York, its
president, and Miss Susan B. Anthony and
Rev. Anna Howard Shaw, the delegates
elect. Mrs. Hannah J. Bailey and Mrs.
Ellen A. Richardson are the alternates
elect for the two delegates above named.
In the presence of delegates alternates will
have no place in the International Council
sessions but that of observers.
It seems very important to emphasize 
these facts. I have received many letters
from different parts of the country from
local clubs, county and state societies, in-
forming me that “So and So have been
elected delegates to the International Coun-
cil,” and asking credentials. It is very
important that it be understood that of even 
NationalCouncils only those affiliated with an
International Council can send delegates to
this body. It is well known what National


[Column 1]
Organizations and what Local Councils are
affiliated with the National Council of the
United States. All members of such
National Organizations and such Local
Councils are, through the National Council
to which they belong, members also of the 
International Council; but with the excep-
tion of the women above named these are
not delegates, and their respective organiza-
tions may not independently send delegates
to the International Council.
Besides these regular official delegates the
International Council has invited fraternal
delegates from two classes of organizations:
From National Councils not yet affiliated
with the International Council, and from
International Organizations. So many
organizations are nominally international
that are really not so, that it is most im-
portant to be extremely careful, even in
establishing so slight a bond between the
International Council and the organization
as is implied in the invitation to the latter
to send a fraternal delegate. At the present
time the following organizations, with vary-
ing claims to a recognition of their Inter-
national scope, have been invited to send
fraternal delegates: The Arbitration and 
Peace Society; the Red Cross Federation;
the International Union of Friends of
Young Women; the International Associa-
tion for the Abolition of the State Regula-
tion of Vice; the World’s Woman’s Chris-
tian Temperance Union; the Young Wo-
man’s Christian Association, and the Gen-
eral Federation of Women’s Clubs.
It is probable that to this brief list the 
International Order of King’s Daughters
will be added.
It is important that it be understood that
the above organizations have no claim upon
the International Council, excepting that
of courtesy, and that their members, unless
related to the International Council through
their membership in some organization
affiliated with the National Council, are
eligible to apply for only the ordinary ticket
of admission to the Congress.
These statements are thus explicitly made
that there may be no embarrassment exper-
ienced later. It will certainly be under-
stood that they are not made because of
any desire on the part of the officers
of the International Council to ex-
clude desirable women from either Council
or Congress; on the other hand, the most
persistent, patient efforts have been made
during eleven years to diffuse an under-
standing of the organization of the National
Council and the International. The rela-
tion is so logical that the decisions made by
the Committee of Arrangements for the
Quinquennial meeting of the Council and
for the International Congress to be held in
connection with it and under its auspices,
must be regarded, not only just to the
organizations constituting the Council, but
very generous to the organizations still out-
side of the Council. 
III. What Americans will participate in
the Council, and what ones will take part
in the Congresses?
As voters there will sit in the Internation-
al Council, Mrs. May Wright Sewall,
vice-president at large; Mrs. Gaffney, Miss 
Anthony and Mrs. Shaw, in the capacities
above indicated, and only these. But as
participants in discussions, Mrs. Maria
Purdy Peck, vice-president of the National
Council, and Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells,
second recording secretary; with the follow-
ing patrons of the National Council: Miss

[Column 2]
Mary S. Anthony, Rochester; Miss Lucy
E. Anthony, Philadelphia; Mrs. Mary S.
Bybee, Indianapolis; Mrs. Ralph Emerson,
Rockford, Ill.; Mrs. Emily Cross, Chicago;
Mrs. Emma Shafter Howard, Oakland,
Cal.; Rev. Ida C. Hulton, Moline, Illinois;
Dr. Hannah E. Longshore, Philadelphia;
Mrs. Elizabeth Claridge McCune, Salt
Lake City; Mrs. Alice Wheeler Pierce,
Indianapolis; Mrs. Virginia T. Smith, Hart-
ford, and Mrs. Lucy B. Young, Salt Lake
City, are now expecting to be present.
Many of the above have also a part in
the formal program, as have also the fol-
lowing:
Miss Sadie American, Chicago; Mrs.
Cynthia Westover Alden, N. Y.; Miss
Octavia W. Bates, Detroit; Mrs. Harriet Santon
Blatch; Mrs. Isabelle C. Barrows; Mrs.
Margaret A. Caine, Salt Lake City; Mrs.
Lavina Doch, N. Y. City; Mrs. Sarah J.
Farmer, Greenacre, Elliott, Maine; Mrs.
Susa Young Gates, Provo City; Mrs. E. B.
Grannis, N.Y. City; Miss S. Goldmarck, N.
Y. City; Mrs. Ida Husted Harper, Washing-
ton, D. C.; Mrs. Lillian M. Hollister, De-
troit; Miss Emily Howland, Sherwood, N.
Y.; Mrs. Adelaide Johnson, Washington D.
C.; Mrs. Annie White Johnson, Chicago;
Mrs. Ellen C. Johnson, South Framingam,
Mass.; Miss Helen Kinne, Columbia Uni-
versity; Miss Klumpke, Cal; Mrs. Rebecca
D. Lowe, Atlanta, Ga.; Mrs. Mary F. Lov-
ell, Bryn Mawr; Miss Maxwell, Atlanta;
Mrs. Jenness Miller, N. Y.; Mrs. Frederick
Nathan, N. Y.; Miss Plummer, Mrs. Quan-
ter, Mrs. Isabella Hunter Robb, Cleveland;
Mrs. Cornelia S. Robinson, N. Y. City; Dr.
Sarah Hackett Stevenson, Chicago; Mrs.
Charlotte Perkins Stetson, Hartford; Miss
Mary Shaw, N. Y. City; Miss Emily Sar-
tain, Philadelphia; Miss Genevieve Ward,
N. Y. City; Dr. Gertrude Walker, Phila-
delphia.
Thus it will be seen that fifty-one of the
American women who are in some way
connected with the Council and the Con-
gress expect to be present.
When do Americans go? In reply to
this very frequent question, I must say that
no ship will carry all of them. Several are
already abroad; one small party of Ameri-
cans sailed on May 25th; another large
party with Miss Anthony as its leader on
June 3rd; a small party with Mrs. Sewall
on June 8th; the last with Mrs. Gaffney on
June 14th; and doubtless many are going on
other dates.
The correspondence which has resulted
in securing so large a representation of our
countrywomen in London has covered
many months. As the date approaches and
evidences of augmented interest multiply,
women who in the beginning were invited
to a place on the program are reconsider-
ing their earlier refusals. It is in no spirit
of tit for tat that the information must
frequently be given that the place declined
has been filled by some one else.
The Committee of Arrangements sitting
in London has done an enormous amount
of work. A copy of the minutes of each
session are in my hands, and they show
painstaking preparation and an elaboration
of detail which can be conceived only by
one with experience in such undertakings.
The latest notes reveal the greatest kind-
ness and zeal on the part of the Entertain-
ment and Hospitality Committees. The
list of entertainments contains the following:
(a) Reception and welcome of the In-
ternational delegates on Monday, June 26th,
at the Westminster Town Hall, which may

[Column 3]
be attended also by members of the Con-
gress.
(b) On the evening of the same day, a
reception at the Stafford House, where the
Duchess of Sutherland with the president
of the International Council, will receive
the guests. Holders of tickets for the
sectional meetings of the Congress (after
their names have been submitted to a sub-
committee on arrangements) may purchase
tickets for this reception at five shillings
each. Invitations will be issued to the In-
ternational delegates and invited speakers
in the name of the sub-committee of ar-
rangements.
(c) On the evening of Wednesday, June
28th, Lady Battersea will invite delegates
and speakers to Surrey House.
(d) On July 1st, the Bishop of London
and Mrs. Creighton will give a party at
Fulham Palace, to which members of the
Congress will be invited.
(e) On Tuesday, July 4th, Lady Roths-
child and Mrs. Leopold Rothschild will in-
vite members of the Congress to a garden
party at Gunnersburg Park.
(f) The President of the International
Council will entertain the delegates of the
Congress at a farewell gathering on the
evening of July 4th.
Besides the above large social entertain-
ments there are forerunners of numerous
more private hospitalities.
Through this public channel I beg to re-
mind the speakers that a typewritten copy
of their addresses, if not already in the
hands of the corresponding secretary, should
be sent at the earliest possible date to her
address, Miss Teresa F. Wilson, 9 Members
Mansion, Victoria St., S. W. London.
 The preparations are sufficiently advanced
to assure us that the second Quinquennial
of the International Council, and the Con-
gress held under its auspices, with all the
subsidiary events connected with it, will
constitute an opportunity for intellectual
and social experiences of a unique character.
American women who are to go abroad
this summer, whether related to the Coun-
cil or participants in the Congress, will
surely find that an attendance upon the
Congress will largely enhance the pleasure
of the ordinary visit to London.
The Hospitality Committee has had pre-
pared with great care a list of the hotels 
and boarding houses and lodging houses,
with a statement of cost and distance from
the seat of meeting, together with other in-
formation that will facilitate the ease of
getting settled upon arrival and of getting
about to the meetings. I have already
sent out to all who I know anticipate
going to London a parcel of the latest docu-
ments relating to the International Council,
together with forms of application for
tickets, and circulars of advice concerning
boarding houses. Large numbers of these
papers remain in my hands, and will be
sent gladly upon application to women de-
siring the information which they contain.
A rendezvous for American delegates, to the
Council and American members to the Con-
gress will soon be determined upon, and
the address may be obtained upon applica-
tion to me. All delegates, participants in
the program and members of the Congress
are desired upon arriving in London to
communicate their respective addresses to
the writer at the London address given be-
low. It will be my pleasure to give every
aid to my countrywomen in making the
Congress and its advantages accessible to
them. If this article should awaken in the


minds of its readers a question which it
does not answer, I shall gladly give further
information upon application.
			MAY WRIGHT SEWALL.
	Address to June 1st, 633 North Pennsyl-
vania St., Indiana.  After June 1st.  9 
Members' Mansion, Victoria Street, Lon-
don, England.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
.


OBITUARY. 
Dear Aunt Rhoda, as we lovingly termed her, 
passed from death into eternal life at Provo, March
29, 1899; and while her body rests, peacefully in 
the silent tomb awaiting the resurrection of the 
just, her spirit is associating with friends and 
loved ones gone before. 
	Mother Young was born in Putnam Co., Tennes-
see, Oct. 24, 1820.  She became a member of the 
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in 
1842.  Moved to Nauvoo, where she became 
acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith. 
In 1852 she with her husband, Adolphin Young, 
started for Salt Lake City.  She lost her husband 
by death on the plains.  She afterwards married 
Alfred D. Young, the cousin of her former hus-
band.  They went to the Muddy, where they re-
mained until the mission was abandoned. They 
then moved to Kanab, where she made her home 
until the time of her death. 
	She was left a widow for the second time in 
1889. She was the mother of twelve children, 
and had at the time of her death seventy-five 
grandchildren and forty-nine great-grandchildrne.
	Sister Young was a faithful Latter-day Saint, 
and like a shock of wheat fully ripe, she has been 
garnered into her Father's house.  "Blessed are 
they who do hunger and thirst after righteousness, 
for they shall be filled." 
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas the Lord has called from our midst by 
the hand of death our beloved sister, 
RESOLVED, That we recognize in the death of 
our worthy sister the loss of a worthy member, 
and, when younger, an efficient teacher in the 
Kanab ward.
	RESOLVED, That we deeply sympathize with the 
bereaved family in the loss of a kind and affection-
ate mother. 
RESOLVED, That we esteem her past faithful 
labors as worthy the fellowship and highest respect 
of us all.
	RESOLVED, That these resolutions be put upon 
our records, that a copy of the same be presented 
to the family, and also to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
for publication.
		ELIZABETH W. ROBINSON.
	The angel of death has visited another house in 
Kanab ward;  Elizabeth W. Robinson, wife of 
Bishop R. S. Robinson, passed peacefully away, 
Feb. 13, 1899.
	Sister Robinson was born at Staffordshire, Eng-
land, Nov. 5, 1835.  She emigrated to America in 
1842 and to Nauvoo in 1843; was driven with the 
Saints in 1846.  She came to Utah in 1849; was 
married to Richard S. Robinson; moved to Kanab 
in 1886, where her husband had been called to 
preside as Bishop.  Here she identified herself 
with the Relief Society and became an active 
member.  She was quiet and unassuming, yet 
kind and courteous to all.
	She was the mother of twelve children, and 
leaves thirty grandchildren and two great-grand-
children.  She had been a great sufferer for a 
long time when death kindly released her.  It can
truly be said of her:  "O, death! where is thy 
sting? O, grave! where is thy victory? Blessed 
are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth." 
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas an Allwise Providence has called from 
our midst by death our beloved sister, 
	RESOLVED, That we recognize in the death of our 
sister the loss of a worthy member, an affectionate 
teacher and a good Latter-day Saint, and worthy 
the respect of all. 
	RESOLVED, That we deeply sympathize with the 
bereaved family in the loss of a kind wife and 
affectionate mother.
	RESOLVED, That these resolutions be placed  upon 
our record and that a copy of the same be presen-
ted to the bereaved family, also to the WOMAN'S 
EXPONENT for publication.
M. E. LITTLE.


MODESTY in a woman is like color on her 
cheeks--very becoming if not put on.


PEACE MEETING, ORANGEVILLE.
	The ladies of this place joined their forces
in a peace meeting the evening of May 15th
according to request, and rendered the fol-
lowing programme:
	Congregational singing, “The Star Span-
gled Banner.” Prayer by the chaplain,
F. W. Young. Singing, “America.” The
“Appeal to Utah Women,”' in the Des-
eret News, read by Mrs. Maria Guymon.
An address by Mrs. Sarah A. Fullmer on
“The Importance of Arbitration.” A speech
by Mr. Jasper Robertson. A paper by J.
C. Childs on “The Importance of Peace.”
Song by Mrs. Maggie Cox and company,
“Break the News to Mother.” Speech by
J. K. Reid. Speech by B. F. Luke on
“The Educational Side for Peace.” Song
by Mrs. Hattie Reid and Mrs. Amanda Tut-
tle. Resolutions by Mrs. R. E. Robertson
Instrumental music by the Johnson band,
which was encored. Speech by U. E.
Curtis. Recitation by Kate Van Buren,
“The Returned Soldier.” Prayer by the
chaplain.
	The evening was a success. The hall
was artistically decorated with flags and
bunting, with an attentive audience that
joined in singing the closing piece, “Colum-
bia the Gem of the Ocean.”
					JOSIE E. CHILDS.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
JOSEPA RELIEF SOCIETY.
	The Josepa Relief Society will have been
organized ten years next October. Sister
Emily G. Cluff was the first president,
with Sisters Kapukini and Pakekepa as her
counselors. Upon the release of President
H. H. Cluff on November 1, 1890, and
the appointment of Elder William King
his successor, Sister Lucy King succeeded
Sister Cluff, but in February, 1892, Brother
King died, and H. H. Cluff was again
called to preside over the colony, and there
followed the reappointment of Sister E. G.
Cluff to the presidency of the Relief Society,
which position she has continuously accept-
ed up to the present.
	The society has had a marked increase
numerically and financially since its or-
ganization, forty members are enrolled,
with an average attendance of thirty. By
gleaning in the wheat field and by dona
tion the society has accumulated forty
bushels of wheat. Members of the society
encouraged in gathering wheat desired to
have a piece of land and cultivate wheat
this summer, but upon the suggestion of
President Cluff the society have planted an
acre into melons, which have a ready sale
among the Hawaiians, and we anticipate
realizing $100.00 with which to buy wheat.
	The Relief Society has provided itself
with a full set of dishes for a banquet suf-
ficient to accomodate one hundred and
twenty-five persons. When used for the
feasts of the colony, other than the annual
feast gotten up by the society, a fee is
charged for the use of them, in addition to
replacing breakage and loss. The number
of annual feasts of the colony aggregate five
or six. When President Joseph F. Smith
and Elders visit the colony several times
during the year the Hawaiian people de-
light in entertaining them with feasts.
	At our recent conference here we were
visited by fourteen brethren and sisters.
Among the visitors were Sister Margaret
A. Caine, who came in the interest of seri-

[Column 2]
culture. Here she met Sister M. A. Till,
of Provo, who is on a visit, and who has
for some time recommended the silk indus-
try among this people, feeling they were
well adapted to it. She fully intended try-
ing to get it introduced among them while
out here. Sisters Till and Cluff had been
to the City and County Building to see the
silk exhibit, and to ask Mrs. Caine to send
out eggs and books of instruction, with the
intention of getting the Hawaiian sisters
started in raising cocoons. Meetings were
called to explain and get the sisters inter-
ested, and Mrs. Caine showed some native
silk fabric made in Utah, and gave such
information as would induce the sisters to
go into the enterprise. Elder Robert Tay-
lor, a missionary to the Islands, and who
had had some experierce with his mother
in raising cocoons when a boy, interpreted
for Mrs. Caine, and the progress in the first
effort of the Hawaiian sisters in raising silk
will be reported in due time. We already
have quite a number of mulberry trees to
start with.
	The colony anticipates a visit during the
summer from Queen Liliokalani, on her re-
turn from Washington to the Islands.
There are over one hundred of her people
in this colony. All appear happy and con-
tented, and enjoy having the EXPONENT
interpreted to them in the meetings of the
Relief Society, and hope it may be amply
supported.
EMILY G. CLUFF, Prest.,
ELLEN HALEMANU, Secy.

	A Peace Meeting was held in this colony
on the 15th of May. The Hawaiian
brethren and sisters expressed a desire for
peace upon the earth. The program con-
sisted of speeches, prayer and songs. They
all believe in settling difficulties by arbi-
tration rather than resort to war, and unite
in asking the leaders of nations to adopt the
plan proposed.
HANNA RAAEPA, Sec.
EMERY STAKE.
	The Emery Stake Relief Society Con-
ference convened at Ferron, April 21, 1899,
President Annie U. Larsen in the chair.
	After the usual opening exercises Sister
Larsen addressed the conference, bade all
welcome and felt glad to see the brethren
with us. Desired the sisters would exer-
cise their faith, that we might call down
the blessings of God upon us, that we may
have a good time together. She desired
the report of the presidents.
	Sister Swensen, president of Ferron, re-
ported the society of that place united and
willing to do what was required of them.
They had a society house nearly completed,
anticipated its completion this summer.
	Sister Jorgensen, Emery, reported her
society in a flourishing condition; all was
peace and harmony. They had one hun-
dred and seventy bushels of wheat, which,
according to the number of members, was a
good showing. The Bishop asked the sis-
ters to aid in building a meeting house.
	Sister Caroline Larsen, Castle Dale, re-
ported the society in a prosperous condition.
The sisters were feeling all right, and will-
ing to do what was required. They had
sixty bushels of wheat, a number of quitls
and considerable carpet-rags on hand. Gave
a good many notes from the General Relief
Society Conference at Salt Lake City in
April, also told how Sister Zina blessed all
the Relief Society. She was pleased to see
all the Stake presidency at the conference


and hoped we would be blessed with an
abundance of the Spirit of the Lord, which
she felt assured we would.
	Sister Robertson reported Orangeville
as doing well. Felt proud to report such a
noble band of sisters. They did a good
work in many ways and were making a
great effort to complete their house this
summer.
	The counselor of Molen reported their
society as doing well for so few in number.
They had donated to the Stake Academy,
and were ever willing to do what they
could at all times. There were only nine
branches reported in the statistical report
read by Sister Cox.
	President Larsen was pleased with the
reports of the society, especially with what
they had done for the Stake Academy, the
report showing that the amount of $55 00
had been given by the Relief Society of
Emery Stake. “Let us appreciate the
privileges we enjoy, and never forget our
prayers. We should cultivate punctuality
and a love for each other.”
	Sister Washburn reported Huntington,
felt all was well with the sisters, she knew
of few difficulties existing among them.
Hoped we would all remain faithful.
	Sister Childs reported Price, having been
there lately and being requested by the
president, Sister Pace, to do so should they
fail to send a representative. The sisters
at Price were doing very well, and in every-
thing were abreast with their sister towns.
They with others had donated liberally to
the Academy.
	Brother Lambert, of Salt Lake City, was
pleased to hear the reports[-] it was very
gratifying to him. Felt that we should all
live so that we could cultivate faith, as it
was a gift that was affected by the lives we
lived. Gave as an object lesson a circum-
stance that he was cognizant of, where
two families were living so near to the re-
quirements of the Lord that through the
faith they were able to exercise one of their
little ones was restored to life, that had
been dead for one and a half hours. Had
they not been living so perfectly their faith
would not have been equal for the unusual
emergency.
	The forenoon meeting was brought to a
close by the choir singing “We thank Thee,
O God, for a prophet,” etc.
MRS. STEVENS, Sec. pro tem.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	Semi-Monthly Meeting convened May
18, 1899, President M. I. Horne presiding.
Singing, “Where the voice of friendship’s
heard.” Prayer by Sister Julia C. Howe.
Singing, “Though nations rise.” Minutes
read and accepted.
	Sister L. D. Alder read the appeal made
to the women of Utah on the peace move-
ment.
	President Horne asked the sisters assem-
bled if they would like to turn this meeting
into a peace meeting. We as Latter-day
Saints always want peace, but we know
that in the fulfilling of prophecy there will
be contention. When we and all the world
are calling for peace, we will unite with all
to bring about peace as far as it is possible,
we will keep the commandments of God.
She knew that the prayers of the people
would result in good. Spoke of the mis-
sion of Jesus Christ, how the people doubted
His testimony, and how they also doubt
the same Gospel today. Spoke of the in-
fluence of women, even from the beginning

[Column 2]
of the world, and of the mission of Joseph
Smith and the persecution he was obliged
to endure. Wondered if all realize we are
so near to the end, and that, as the Savior
says, it will come suddenly.
	Sister L. D. Alder said she had been
visiting the Pocatello Stake in company
with Dr. Ellis R. Shipp, in regard to organ-
izing classes in obstetrics and nursing.
There was much need of such teaching,
there are so few obstetricians and the people
are so scattered, it is so hard upon the sick
as well as those who attend to them. Dr.
Shipp has organized classes and with ap-
parent success. Sister Alder expects to go
abroad before this meeting convenes again,
but asked the sisters to pray for her in her
absence. She has had the promise to go
and labor among her kindred. Thought
the peace meeting was an inspiration from
God.
	Sister Brown said “God moves in a
mysterious way.” She thought of all peo-
ple we were the most blessed; spoke of the
peace that Temple work brought to us, ex-
horted all who could to spend one day in a
month to go to the Temple and save souls.
	Counselor Elizabeth Stevenson said all
our meetings were peace meetings; only
the Latter-day Saints could enjoy this per-
fect peace. Spoke of the blessing derived
from reading the life of the Prophet Joseph
Smith, and interesting our children in his
mission, and of the waste of time in read-
ing light literature. Said we should all be
missionaries, not waste our time. Let us
all come here often and have our peace
meetings, and induce all to come. Said
that she appreciated the necessity of having
nurses trained to care for the poor and the
sick.
	Sister Martha Morris sang “O, Jesus the
Giver,” also spoke of the sacrifices the wo-
men of God would make. Spoke of the
testimonies she had been permitted to bear
to her kindred in the old country, and
prayed that Sister Alder would enjoy the
same blessing.
	Sister Phelps said we were serving a
God of power and revelation. Said we had
been begging for peace ever since the
Prophet Joseph Smith had organized the
Church, but nothing can thwart the pur-
poses of the Almighty, and He has said
that the wicked shall slay the wicked.
	Sister Brixen spoke of the importance of
teaching our children the ten command-
ments. Spoke of the great faith Moses
manifested, thought we should strive to
keep the commandments of God. Spoke
of the blessed time when we could live
upon the earth and say, “Thy will not
mine be done.”
	Sister Annie M. Cannon said we can
not expect universal peace over the earth,
but we can have peace by living the life of
a true Latter-day Saint. Highly approved
of the movement in training nurses all
over our State.
	Sister Susanna Fenamore spoke of her
desire for peace, and her love and desire to
work in the Temple.
	Sister Julia S. W[-]olley spoke of the
peace conference, and believed peace could
be brought about only by keeping the com-
mandments of God.
	Sister Julia C. Howe believed that the
predictions of prophets would come to pass,
that Christ was the author of peace, and
that Joseph the prophet was the forerunner
of the second coming of our Lord and
Savior. We must acknowledge the hand
of God in all things, we will be numbered

[Column 3]
among the jewels if we do our duty in
assembling ourselves together, etc. Spoke
of the necessity of teaching the children the
ten commandments and the keeping of the
Sabbath day.
	Adjourned for two weeks. Singing,
Doxology. Benediction by Counselor
Webb.
J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.


THE address, "Our Duty to the Women
of Our New Possessions," by Anna Garlin
Spencer, will be concluded in our next
issue.


Save Your Money!
And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank in Utah.
	Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts.
	The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW.
	We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said
interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS

OREGON SHORT LINE RAILROAD.
TIME TABLE IN EFFECT MARCH 19, 1899.
ARRIVE.
From Ogden, Chicago, Omaha, St. Louis, Kansas City
	and Denver...................................3:30 a.m.
From Ogden, Cache Valley, Portland, Butte and San
	Francisco.....................................8:55 a.m.
From Ogden, Chicago, St. Louis, Omaha and Denver 3:05 p.m.
From Ogden, Cache Valley and San Francisco......7:20 p.m.
**From Frisco, Milford, Sanpete and intermediate
	points.....................................9:35 a.m.
From Tintic, Mercur and intermediate points........6:30 p.m.
*From Tooele and Terminus........................6 00 p.m.
DEPART.
For Ogden, Park City, Omaha, Chicago, Denver, Kan-
	sas City and St. Louis........................7:00 a.m.
For Ogden, Cache Valley and intermediate points..8:00 a.m.
**For Tintic, Mercur and intermediate points......7:30 a.m.
For Ogden, Denver, St. Louis, Chicago, San Francisco 6:40 p.m.
For Ogden, Butte, Portland, San Francisco......9:45 a.m.
**For Provo, Sanpete, Milford and Frisco............5:30 p.m.
*For Tooele and Terminus..........................7:45 a.m.
	**Trains south of Juab do not run Sundays
	*Daily except Sunday.
City Ticket Office Under Masonic Hall,
Second South Street.
S. W. ECCLES,
Gen. Traffic Man[-]ger.
D E. BURLEY,
Gen. P. and T. Agent
W. H. BANCROFT.
Vice President and Gen’l Manager


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 28 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1, 1899. No 3.


CONTENTS.
A Woman Missionary....Mrs. Addison Pratt  17.
Primary Anniversary at Murray..E. H.Lyon 18.
Reapers’ Club..................J. A. Druce 18.
Our Duty to the Women of Our New Posses-
sions..........Rev. Anna Garlin Spencer 19.
A Good Man Gone........................19.
Aunt Esther's Sweetheart..........Aunt Em 20.
New Organization...............Mary John 23.
Obituary—Mary G. W. Davis..M. A. Smart
Kate Platt Walker......Mary M. Lyman 23.
Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting..J.A. Woolley 23.
R.S. Reports—Emery Stake, St. George Julia
A. Pace............................... 24
Editorial:—Notes by the Way............ 20.
Poetry:—Lost Rosabell............L. M. H. 17.
To My Class............Lydia D. Alder 24.


LOST ROSABELL.
Long ago a star-eyed maiden,
	Filled my heart with love’s sweet spell.
As comes spring with young buds laden, 
	Sweet perfume from flowering dell,
Came this maiden (sweet to tell) 
And we called her Rosabell.
She to me was summer gladness,
	Breaking e'en drear winter's spell,
Gliding all that came of sadness,
	Charming grief away as well;
Giving joy tongue cannot tell,
Little star-eyed Rosabell.

Cheeks which borrowed rose-leaf shading,
	Eyes of violet's darkest hue, 
Eden’s sunshine, too, seemed woven, 
	In her dark-brown tresses thro’.
Grace and beauty knew her well,
Little charming Rosabell.

In the trees glad birds are singing,
	In the groves and in the fens, 
Brooks and rills with music ringing--
	Sweet.the songs of tiny wrens, 
Nature’s voice with music swells;
While I mourn lost Rosabell. 

All the meadows bloom with daisies,
	Fragrant blossoms in the dells
Breathe, in mute, yet sweetest praises,
	Yea, "He doeth all things well."
Yet no whispered voice will tell,
Of my long lost Rosabell. 

All the world is full of children, 
	Of their number none can tell, 
Blossoms in time’s earthly kingdom, 
	Seraphs here awhile to dwell,
Many in my heart are held, 
Yet I mourn lost Rosabell.
Now eve's purple glooms are stealing,
	Over hillsides, down the dells,
Backward still I turn in dreaming
	To the child I loved so well.
Gone from me! (Ah, sad to tell!) 
Lost for aye—my Rosabell.
			L. M. H.


(Column 1)
A WOMAN MISSIONARY.
	[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands
1850.]
			    [Continuted.]	
June 1st.  This day seven years since
my companion started on his mission to 
the Pacific Islands.  A day of days was
that to me!  Had I known on that day
what seven years’ experience would bring
to me, it seems to me one glimpse of it
would have struck me out of existence in
an instant!  It was wisely hidden from

(Column 2)
me. Sorrows mountains high have rolled
over me!  And yet I have withstood all 
the storms of adversity, am still alive, and
on my way to the Islands of the Sea to
teach the poor, dark people the Gospel that 
has cost me so much!
	The 2nd day.  Awnings are spread in
fron of our wagons where we are to hold
public worship.  Elder Joseph Busby made 
some spirited remarks.  All the speakers
acknowledged we had been signally blessed
on our journey.  The brethren decide on a 
frolic to help them over the impassable
gulphs and rocks; dust almost to suffoca-
tion.  I told the captain if he should send 
me ahead to explore I should return with
an evil report, and declare it impossible to
go that way.  St Mary’s river flows in 
grandeur here.  Dust we must have while 
we travel near it. 
	The 12th day.  Horn sounded at 4
o’clock, camp started before breakfast and 
traveled a short distance.  Stopped for the 
day to enjoy a good rain, which we have
long wished for. 
	The 14th day, A beautiful road all day.
Found a splendid camping ground; large
shrubbery on the banks of the river; good
wood.  Emigrants overtook us from Ohio,
they were out of provisions.  The com-
pany invited them to breakfast.  Sold them 
breadstuff. 
	The 15th day.  Made a blunder.  Trav-
eled ten miles in a wrong direction, a level
road but deep sand.  Came upon Capt.
Smith’s company, camped to spend the 
Sabbath.  Emigrants attended our meeting
at 2 o’clock. Brother Clark preached a 
Gospel sermon very much to the purpose.
Elder Busby bore testimony with great
warmth and readiness of expression.  After
meeting two strangers called upon us, who
said they were from Nauvoo; the very
sound of the name thrills through my
nerves!  Recollection of the past rushes to
my mind!  Emigrants from all parts are
thronging the way to the mines.  Little or
no provisions, with poor, worn-out animals.
	The 17th day.  A country of desolation
have we passed today.  Twenty-five miles 
without feed or water; barren, sandy plains.
Camped on a slough fed by St. Mary’s
river.  Our wagons stand on a ridge of 
rising ground, our fires blazing far below. 
The reflection on our white houses on
wheels presents a romantic sight.  The
moon shines with unusual brilliancy.  The
scenery in the evening is delightful.
	The 19th day.  Started on the desert;
filled everything with water.  The country
presents an exceedingly singular appear-
ance, perfectly level, has every sign of 
having been the bed of a mighty river.
The ground has a yellowish cast, without
a particle of vegetation.  Under the lee of 
the mountains there is the appearance of
water, very deceiving to the traveler; as we
approach it recedes from our view.  We
are reminded of what we have read and 
heard of an oasis, so alluring to the poor,
thirsty men and teams.  We are at length
safely over the desert; traveled till two
o’clock; rested the cattle till daylight;
started on again through deep sand.  I

(Column 3)
walked from sundown till eight o’clock. I
went into my wagon, slept awhile, then
walked again all of us till we came to Sal-
mon Trout river, ten o’clock we saw the 
water.  The poor cattle could scarcely be
kept from rushing into the river with the
wagons.  The men gave them water in
buckets, all they dared to let them drink.
	Badir, the socialist, has made trouble in
the camp by coming without supplies.
Mr. Mills, the phrenologist, who hired his
passage with him, is now destitute, like-
wise a family he engaged to take through.
Although the two men above mentioned
are not of our.faith, the brethren will not
see them want for food.
	Just over another twenty-mile desert
without feed or water; camped on the bank
of the river; a most delightful place!  The
trees are large and standing in close prox-
imity; heavy foliage.  Spent one whole 
day in settling difficulties; got them all set-
tled; retired to the grove and made a swing;
had a large rope suspended from a huge 
tree.  The moon arose about nine in all
its beauty, I have never witnessed grander
scenery! The towering trees, the mur-
muring waters, the clear blue sky be-
spangled with stars, the grand queen of 
night, all combined to make the scene
strikingly lovely!  Better than all we have
agreeable company.  The following day
traveled through deep mud and over rocks. 
Again on the Salmon Trout river; a de-
lightful place.
	The 27th.  Twenty miles today over
deep sand, not so rough as common.  The
mountains on one side covered with large 
pine trees growing quite to the summit,
from which flow out several beautiful
streams of swift running water; thick
shrubbery growing luxuriantly on either
bank; the broad prairie adorned with green
grass, resembling the meadows of New
England.  The whole scene is exquisitely
beautiful!  We have not seen on the whole
journey so rich a growth of grass.  Fare-
well to the deserts!  We have prophesied a 
settlement here in the future, one hundred
miles from the mines. 
	The 28th.  Started early and came to the 
mammoth pine trees.  I stood beneath the 
shade of one tree that would make lumber
enough to build two common houses.  To
see such astonishing trees growing out of 
sand and gravel, not a particle of soil, filled
every beholder with wonder and admiration.
We passed today beautiful streams of water
flowing down from the mountains, cold as 
ice and clear as crystal.  We have over-
taken Mr. E. Hanks's company, who left
Salt Lake valley three weeks before us. 
They have traveled on the Sabbath, we 
have not, and have gained on them.
	The 29th. This morning men were sent
ahead to explore the road over the moun-
tains.  Met travelers coming from the 
other side, who reported the road passable.
They concluded to relinquish the excursion
and to stop here several days.  The heat,
though excessive, is rendered more endur-
able by the cool breezes from the moun-
tains.  Emigrants are coming to our
camp half starved; we are compelled to


[Column 1]
feed them, cannot resist their entreaties.
Elder Moses delivered a lecture on the
doctrines of our Church, to which the
strangers listened with apparent interest.
Now at the base of the mountains of
rocks, covered with immense trees. What
supports the roots I cannot imagine. Not
the least appearance of soil. Seven miles
we traveled through the cañon, a road
too intolerable to think of. No person
looking at the opening would suppose for a
moment that wagons could pass without
being broken in ten thousand pieces! But
we came over safely, not a thing broken.
In crossing a bridge where the water was
running very swiftly, one of the cows fell
off and floated down the river as fast as the
current could carry her. The men ran
with a lariat, and hauled her out badly
bruised.
	July 6th. Now over the first mountains.
To describe the roads in justice would be
impossible. Snow, rocks and mud, per-
pendicular heights, declivities deep and
dangerous; yet we got safely over, with
only a few  trifling accidents. I rode up
the mountain on horseback; with great ex-
ertion I clung to the horse. I rode down
in the wagon, which fatigued me more
than walking would have done. Is it pos-
sible that men can love gold to that degree
that they will climb these mountains to ob-
tain it? Oh, I pity the poor cattle! How
faithfully they serve men, who are often
unkind to them! 
	The 6th day. Now on the top of the
second mountain; traveled over snow in
some places thirty feet deep. The wind is 
blowing a heavy gale, cold as Greenland.
The cows are left behind, a sad mistake.
	The 7th day. Rumbling down the
mountains all day; had to lie in bed sick;
was not able to sit up. I hope I may
never pass another such day.
	The 8th day. One of the horses gone.
Oh, the crowds that throng this highway,
going in search of gold! Crowding about
our wagons to be fed. We must feed them,
either for pay or without. They must
have starved to death had we not been
here with provisions; and we only brought
what we thought would serve us through.
I wonder our stores are not exhausted.
	Today passed “Tragedy Springs,” where
three men on their way to Salt Lake were
murdered by Indians for their horses and
clothes. They were found and buried by
their comrades, who in a few days over-
took them. A bag of gold was found on
the neck of one, which the Indians in their
fright had not discovered. It was taken to
the man’s family, and great lamentation
was made over him who had toiled to gath-
er the gold. Their graves are now a spring
of clear water, and carved on the trunk of
a large tree is the account of their sad fate.
Many travelers there pause to gaze upon
the spot, read the inscription and sigh
over the sorrowful fate of their fellow men.
The spring thus derives its name, Tragedy.
	The 9th day. This morning the men
started in pursuit of the lost horse. They
soon got on the track of Indians. They
took the squaws prisoners, hoping the
Indians would bring back the horse. They
were ensconced in the brush; the white
men dared not venture in. The two Span-
ish boys well armed rushed down. One
old Indian pitched battle with them; they 
shot at him, but not to kill. He ran
screaming; the squaws cried bitterly. Four
guns were heard at camp; the white men
returned; the boys were left behind; horses

[Column 2]
not found. Then we felt sure the poor
boys were killed. Some said, “No, they
are not killed. Have we not prayed that
all our lives might be preserved?” After
a length of time the boys returned alive, to
the great joy of the whole company. They
were good Spanish boys.
[To be continued.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
PRIMARY ANNIVERSARY AT MURRAY.
	Minutes of the first anniversary of the
West Side Murray, South Cottonwood Pri-
mary Association, held June 9, 1899, at
the West Side school house, President Mary
E. Gilbert presiding. Present on the stand
were Counselor Thomas A. Wheeler. of the
Bishopric, Sunday School Superintendent
D. B. Jones, Stake President Camilla C.
Cobb, Counselor Mary L. Morris, President
M. E. Gilbert, Counselor S. E. Jones of
West Branch, a number of aids, and officers
of other associations. 
	Meeting was called to order by Counselor
S.E. Jcnes. Singing from Primary hymn
book, “Gladly Meeting.” Prayer by Broth-
er D. B. Jones. Singing, “Open the door
for the children.” Minutes of the organiza-
tion meeting read and accepted.
	An interesting program was then very
creditably rendered by the children, after
which remarks were made by President C.
C. Cobb, who spoke upon the ancient
church as it existed in the days of the
Savior and His Apostles. She encouraged
the children to have perfect faith in God.
	Counselor Mary L. Morris, the next
speaker, called the kindergarten class to
the front and told them an Indian story of
the cliff dwellers; also told the story of
Moses in a pleasing manner.
	Counselor T. A. Wheeler spoke a few
moments. Said that all should realize the
importance of training the young people in
the straight and narrow path. Urged the
parents present to aid the officers in the
Primary Association.
	The meeting adjourned until 2 o’clock
p. m. Singing from card, “Word of Wis-
dom.” Benediction by Ray Williams.
	Afternoon session opened by singing
from Primary hymn book, “I think when
I read that sweet story of old.” Prayer by
Counselor T.A. Wheeler. Singing, “Beau-
tiful Zion.”
	A lengthy and interesting program was
then carried out. Brother D. B. Jones
spoke eloquently upon the work of the
Primary. Said let the foundation for life
be laid broad and deep; that this end can-
not be attained but by divine aid, which
must be earnestly sought for. Exhorted
all to be obedient and speak kindly of all.
	Stake Aid Millie Bassett spoke lovingly
to the children, and told a beautiful story
which charmed her hearers, both old and
young.
	Stake Aid Mary Tuddenham spoke a few
moments on the necessity of baptism when
children were eight years of age or over.
	President Mary L. Rawlins, of South
Cottonwood Relief Society, said she was
pleased to meet with the officers and chil-
dren of the West Branch Primary, and to
see so many of the parents present.
	President Howarth of the Tenth Ward
association spoke a few kind words to all.
	President C. C. Cobb gave some valuable
instructions, thanked the sisters from the
city and elsewhere for their attendance,
also told of an incident connected with
Brother James E. Talmage on the healing.
	President E. Terry, of East Draper

[Column 2]
Primary, blessed the children, and hoped
they would become good men and wom-
en.
	At President C. C. Cobb’s request Broth-
ers T. A. Wheeler and D.B. Jones anointed
President Mary E. Gilbert for the restora-
tion of her health, and asked the children
for their faith in her behalf.
	Meeting adjourned for one year. Sing-
ing “We thank Thee, O God, for a proph-
et.” Benediction by Agnes Stromness.
		E. H. Lyon, Sec.


REAPERS’ CLUB.
	The Reapers’ Club met in the EXPONENT
office, Templeton, on the 29th of May.
	A very interesting paper was read by
Mrs. C. J. Trescott, on “The Ancient
Ruins of Copan in Honduras.” She also
spoke of those at Quirigua, and the tablets
found at Palanque. She said that the
ancient Toltecs, who formerly dwelt in
Mexico, were considered—from informa-
tion contained in a manuscript—to have
descended from the house of Israel.
	The club also met on the 12th of June,
and listened to a very good paper by Mrs.
J. Druce on “The Ancient Races that once
Inhabited Mexico.” She stated that the
Mayas were the oldest of known American
races, and their settlement in this country
seemed to date so far back that only some
great scientific discovery, or perhaps the re-
vealed key to decipher the hieroglyphics
which are found among the ruins of their
ancient cities, could open up the mystery of
their origin.
	The Toltecs are of later history, though
they may have descended from the Mayas.
The Toltecs are said to have been a mild,
peaceful, active and industrious people,
who had a knowledge of the arts and
sciences. They understood astronomy,
knew the cause of an eclipse, made and
used sun-dials, etc. The Aztecs, who
succeeded them in the Mexican valley,
after the country had been deserted by the
Toltecs, were a fierce and warlike race.
	These papers were followed with a dis-
cussion by members of the club.
J A. DRUCE, Cor. Sec.


NOTES.
	All our readers will be glad to know
that Mrs. Caroline E. Merrick, the pioneer
suffragist of Louisiana, voted five times at
the recent election—once for herself, and
four times as proxy for other women.
	MME. Zolenka, on behalf of the Wom-
an’s International Peace Association, has
presented to M. de Staal, president of the
peace conference, a handsomely bound
album containing peace petitions from
women’s organizations in eighteen coun-
tries.
	ANNIE MARIAN MACLEAN, of the Uni-
versity of Chicago, through interest in the
work of the Consumers’ League, became a
saleswoman for two weeks, during the
Christmas holidays last year, in one of the
great department stores. She has published
her experience in the American Journal of
Sociology for last month, and it is reprinted
in the Chicago Unity. It is graphic and
painful reading, and should open the eyes
of those women who think that they (and
incidentally all other women) have ‘‘all
the rights they want.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
OUR DUTY TO THE WOMEN OF
OUR NEW POSSESSIONS.
BY REV. ANNA GARLIN SPENCER.

[Read at the National Suffrage Convention at
Grand Rapids.]
	[Conclusion.]
Bebel says ‘‘Woman was the first hu-
man being to taste of bondage.” True,
and her bondage has been long and bitter;
but like all other forms of human slavery,
the subjection of woman to man in the fam-
ily bond was at once a vast step upward
from the preceding condition. It gave
woman release from the terrible labor bur-
dens of savage life; it gave her time and
strength to develop beauty of person, and
refinement of taste and manner. It gave
her the teaching capacity, for it put all the
younger child-life into her exclusive care,
with some leisure at command to devote to
its mental and moral, as well as physical
well-being. It led to a closer relationship
between man and woman than the world
had known before, and thus gave each the
advantage of the other’s qualities. And al-
ways and everywhere the subjection of
woman to man has had a mitigation
and softening of hardships unknown to
other forms of slavery, by reason of the
power of human affection as it has worked
through sex-attraction. As soon, however,
as the slavery of woman to man was out-
grown and obsolete it became (as was Afri-
can slavery in a professedly democratic
country like our own) ‘‘the sum of all
villianies.” And today there is no incon-
sistency so great, and, therefore, no condi-
tion so brutal and outrageous, as the sub-
jection of women to men in a civilization
which, like ours, assumes to rest upon
foundations of justice and equality of hu-
man rights. It is an archaeologist and not
a woman suffrage reformer who says,
"Nothing is more natural than that woman,
the author of parental government, the
founder of tribal kinship and the organizer
of industrialism, should have much to say
about the form of housekeeping called pub-
lic economy.” The full recognition of
equality of human rights as applied to
woman has, however, not yet come even
to our own America. The passing century
has indeed witnessed a revolution in the
political and legal and industrial and social
and educational position of women; and in
our country the family life and almost all
other relationships of men and women are
purged of most of the elements of sex sub-
jection. Yet our laws still lag behind the
practice of our better people, and the funda-
mental political rights are still withheld
from, most women citizens. We all know
more or less clearly that mother-rule gave
way to father-rule, woman’s exclusive so-
cial command to man’s exclusive govern-
mental control, only that both might give
place to the equal reign of ‘‘two heads in
council, two beside the hearth, two in the
tangled business of the world.” But our
full assent in law and custom is not yet
given by ‘‘majority vote” to this last and
finest step in the evolution of social order.
	Today these considerations (especially the
failure to apply the doctrine of equality of
human rights to women, even in the most
advanced centres of modern civilization)
have an especial and most fateful signifi-
cance in relation to the women of the more
backward races as they are brought into
contact with our more modern civilization.
I said the peoples with whom we are now
being brought as a nation into vital rela-

[Column 2]
tionship, may be still in the matriarchate.
If they are not, most of them are certainly
in some transition stage from that to the
father-rule. Not all peoples have had to
pass through the entire subjection of wom-
en to men which marked our ancestral ad-
vance. The more persistent tribal relation-
ship and collective family life have some-
times softened the process of social growth
which was so harsh for women under old
Roman law and the later English common
law. It may be that the dusky races of
Africa and of the islands of the sea, as well
as our Aryan cousins of India, may pass
more easily through the stages of attach-
ment of man’s responsibility to the family
life than we, with our tough fibre of char-
acter, were able to do. If so, in the name
of justice they shall have the chance!
	But if we, who have not yet “writ large”
in law and political rights that respect for
women which all our education, industry,
religion, art, home life and social culture
express,—if we, who are still inconsistent,
and not yet out of the transition stage from
the father-rule to the equal reign of both
sexes,—if we lay violent hands upon the
backward peoples and give them only our
law and our political rights as these relate
to women, we shall do horrible injustice to
the savage women, and through them to
the whole process of social growth for their
people. When we tried to divide “in
severalty” the lands of the Indian, we did
violence to all his own sense of justice and
co-operative feeling when we failed to rec-
ognize the women of the tribes in the dis-
tribution. We then and there gave the
Indian the worst of the white man’s rela-
tionship to his wife, and failed utterly, as
in the nature of the case we must, to
give him the best of the white man’s re-
lation to his wife. When in India, as Mrs.
Garrett Fawcett has so finely shown, we
introduce the technicalities of the English
law of marriage to bind an unwilling wife
to her husband, we give the Hindoo the
slavery of the Anglo-Saxon wife, but we
do not give the Hindoo that spirit of Anglo-
Saxon marriage and home-life which has
made that slavery often scarcely felt, and
never an unmixed evil. If, today, in the
Hawaiian Islands or in Cuba we fail to rec-
ognize the native women who still hold
something of the primitive prestige of
womanhood; fail to recognize them as en-
titled to a translation, under new laws and
conditions, of the old dignity of position,
we shall not only do them an injustice, but
we shall give the Hawaiian-and Cuban men
lessons in the wrong side and not the right
side of our domestic relations. Above all, if
in the Philippines we abruptly, and with
force of arms, establish the authority of the
husband over the wife, by recognizing men
only as property-owners, as signers of
treaties, as industrial rulers and as domestic
law-givers, we shall introduce every out-
rage and injustice of women’s subjection to
men, without giving these people one iota
of the sense of family responsibility, of pro-
tection of, and respect for, women, and of
deep and self-sacrificing devotion to child-
hood’s needs, which mark the Anglo-Saxon
man. In a word, if we introduce one parti-
cle of our belated and illogical political and
legal subjection of women to men into any
civilized and half-civilized community, we
shall spoil the domestic virtues that com-
munity already possesses, and we shall not
(because we cannot so abruptly and violent-
ly) inoculate them with the virtues of civil-
zed domestic life. Nature will not be

[Column 3]
cheated. We cannot escape, nor can we
roughly and swiftly help others to escape,
the discipline of ages of natural growth.
	This all means that we need another
Commission to go to all the lands in which
our flag now claims a new power of over-
sight and control—a Commission other than
that so recently sent to the Philippines to
see what may be done to bring order to that
distracted group of islands. We need a
Commission which shall study domestic
rather than political conditions, and which
shall look for the undercurrents of social
growth rather than the more showy political
movements. We should have on that
Commission two archaeologists, a man and
a woman, and I can name them—Otis T.
Mason and Alice C. Fletcher.
	We should have on that Commission one
statesman, learned in the law, who can con-
trive ingenious and flexible jointures be-
tween the old and the new ways of living;
so that law shall be an aid to natural
development when it is to supersede cus-
tom, and not an iron hand of restriction.
We, should have a teacher on it,—one capa-
ble of divining the next steps of training
for child-life. And, last but not least, we
should have a woman on the Commission
trained in the best methods of philanthropic
effort,—best because most closely following
the laws of social advance,—one capable of
reading the present in the light of the past,
the special in the comparative atmosphere
of the general, and capable of leading the-
organization of social forces which are native
and peculiar to the existing life. We owe
this debt to the women of our new posses-
sions, and through them to the social life of
which they are already doubtless the most
unifying element,—the debt of intelligent,
understanding of their present conditions
and the conservation of all their social in-
fluences and personal dignity in the up-
holding of the national life.
	Says Lester Ward, our great sociologist:
“The sociologist and the statesman should
co-operate in discerning the laws of society
and the methods of utilizing them so as to
let the social forces flow freely and strong-
ly.” If this be true in respect to our own
national life,—and who shall gainsay it,—
it is tenfold more true in respect to those
more artificial relationships of one nation to
another, which are the outgrowth of al-
liance, subjugation, or territorial oversight.

“Take up the White Man’s burden !
Go, pilot as you may
Your new-caught, sullen peoples
Who do not know the way.
Go, teach them not with cannon,
Those fluttered folk and wild;—
But lead them, as, with yearning,
A mother leads her child.’’


A GOOD MAN GONE.
	In the death of Hon. Francis Armstrong,
which occurred on June 15th, in this city,
a vast number of people in various circum-
stances of life have lost a staunch, reliable
and warm friend. When it can be said of
a wealthy man, as it was testified to of
Brother Armstrong by the several speakers
over his earthly remains, that he has been
“a friend to the poor,” it means more than
all the high-sounding encomiums that may
be paid to his ability as a clever business
man, a successful financier, a wise counselor
and strong pillar in public affairs.
	All these qualities were feelingly attribut-
ed to this good man by the earnest, honest
speakers at his funeral.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
Woman's Exponent.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah,
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months.
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every 
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
		Mrs E. B. WELLS,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1, 1899.


[Column 1]

		   NOTES BY THE WAY.
	Leaving Salt Lake City on seven o’clock
morning train, Saturday, June 3rd, 1899,
and flying over the country Eastward as
fast as possible, one cannot do much in the
way of writing, or make much study of the
scenery by the way, nor study human
nature either as one would like to do when
meeting a variety of people. It is always
pleasant and sometimes profitable (men-
tally at least) to note the people one meets
even casually, and occasionally one finds
himself specially interested in certain types
of individuals. The writer was so weary
that dismal, rainy morning and so pre-
occupied with self, having left behind the
nearest and dearest to go across the great
ocean, that she cared little for the people
about her, or the wonders of the canons;
but no one from Salt Lake City is suffered
to remain long unknown, not even in a
railway carriage. It soon transpired that
our identity was discovered and the lady in
the same section informed us that she had
relatives and old school friends in Salt Lake
City.  Finally we ascertained that she was
the cousin of our well-known and highly
respected fellow citizen, Theodore McKean,
and a schoolmate of the Ivins’s. Then
followed conversation and explanations,
and discussion of the Roberts question, etc.
Finally a lady just returning from a mis-
sion to China learned to her dismay, if not
disgust, that there were Mormons aboard,
and although she was the wife of a Baptist
minister, and had been living for many
years in China trying to teach the Gospel
principles to the “heathen Chinee,” yet
she thought herself too good to be even
polite to a Mormon woman, and seemed to
do all in her power to make things un-
pleasant. It is strange that Christian wom-
en working to correct the heathen have not
broader principles and greater charity.
	Arriving in New York Tuesday at half
past two, Mrs. Caine bade farewell to the
writer and drove to the Cosmopolitan to be
ready to sail next day.
	The heat in New York City has been al-
most unendurable, and people and horses
have been prostrated even so early in June;
while in Salt Lake and vicinity we see by
the papers that there have been heavy frosts,
ruining fruit and killing early vegetables.
We found our relatives all right and were in
time the following morning at ten for the
Conference of the Ladies of the National
Council of Women of the U.S.A. Mrs. Sewall

[Column 2]
who only arrived in NewYork the same morn-
ing was fresh as ever and in excellent spir-
ts, though she was to sail the next morn-
ing. Miss American, Mrs. Peck and Mrs.
Grannis were also present; they too were to
sail on the Bremen on the 8th. Mrs. Fan-
nie Humphreys Gaffney, the new president,
had the business of the meeting carefully
prepared and everything was dispatched in
the best manner, Mrs. Wells performing
her duty as secretary. Mrs. Mary Lowe
Dickinson, who resides in New York, was
present and with three such officers it would
have been strange if everything had not
been well and properly accomplished that
could be done within the time. It was the
first meeting since we were all in Wash-
ington, though Mrs. Gaffney had enter-
tained Miss Anthony, Dr. Shaw and Mrs.
Avery while in New York before they
sailed, and talked over some important
matters with them. About noon a de-
lightful hour was spent at the luncheon,
which consisted of delicaciesdaintily spread,
and lovely flowers that helped to perfect the
beauty of the entire arrangement. A hap-
pier group of women could scarcely be
found; no gossip, no frivolity, but ques-
tions of importance and social conversation
occupied the time, and work was resumed
immediately after the guests left the table.
This conference will undoubtedly be help-
ful in getting matters ready for the execu-
tive session in November.
	Thursday we called at the office of the
White Line steamers, Bowling Green, and
completed final arrangements for sailing on
Wednesday, June 14th.
	Friday noon left New York City to visit
relatives in New England; and every sta-
tion by the way recalled memories of other
days. The hills and woods are as green as
when a little child we wandered through
the wild wood, and as now and then when
a wayside station was reached women came
on with armsfull of wild flowers just such
as we gathered in the long ago, it was al-
most pathetic to one whose mind was filled
with girlish memories.
	The towns we whirled past were familiar
by name from earliest recollection,and when
we met the dear loved ones from whom we
had been so widely separated more than
half a century, (except once or twice a
brief visit as we flitted Eastward to attend
some congress or convention,) and then
knew we could only spend a few hours with
them, it was a pleasure “not unmixed
with pain.”
	There were many things to talk over dur-
ing the last eight years, and the time flew
on the wings of the wind. Changes there
are to be remarked but the main features of
the scenery were much the same. Laurel
Hill covered with blossoms was a delight
to the beholder, and buttercups, daisies and
the hemlock with its gracefully sweeping
boughs and soft, young tendrils, as well as
the old magnificent elms that had stood for
more than a century, withstanding the
storms of New England winters. There is
nothi[-]g in nature perhaps not dearer to the
heart, or more beautiful to the writer, than
the woods in full foliage as at this season,
unless it is the sea, and one hesitates and
knows not unless the star-spangled-firma-
ment with the new moon in the clear blue.
But one does not reason about these things,
one only admires and exclaims, for it is
past all description and all comparison.
	Tomorrow, Monday, I shall be in the
great City of New York, and on Wednes-
day at high noon, the fourteenth of June,

[Column 3]
sail for England, and will write the next
editorial after the Quinquennial in London.
Au revoir.


AUNT ESTHER'S SWEETHEART.
BY AUNT EM.
[Conclusion.]
	Of all those who had been converted
Aunt Esther was really the most zealous
and content. Heretofore she had not been
religiously inclined, but she had had many
misgivings with regard to a step she once
contemplated taking, though she had main-
tained her reputation and escaped almost
miraculously from falling into disgrace. She
knew, as no one else did or could know,
how she had been tempted to leave her hus-
band’s house forever, and go into a foreign
land with the man she loved with all the
fervor of youthful attachment, but whom
her parents had not allowed her to marry.
He had come to her at a time when she had
felt the most desperate, had read her heart
when her whole soul revolted against the
bondage she was undergoing, and urged
her to fly with him. And she had even
tried to persuade herself that the step Sid-
ney Manning entreated her to take was no
more a sin in the sight of heaven, than the
domestic life she was compelled to live with
the husband to whom she was bound by
marriage vows. Some good angel stood by
her then, and at the last moment, as it were,
when all had been cautiously arranged, and
her lover was waiting in anxious expectan-
cy, she finally resolved to preserve her hon-
or and that of her husband, and remain
true to her womanhood and to her mar-
riage vows, and suffer wrong rather than
commit a wrong that would forever debar
her from association of the friends she
loved; and an error, too, which to her now
thoroughly awakened consciousness of its
gross wickedness, she felt sure would end
in despair and hopeless degradation. And
as a last resort, she sent her faithful maid,
alone, in the dead silence of the night, to
tell her old sweetheart that she could not
consent to go with him, and he must never
attempt to see her again. Poor Polly! she
never dared to tell her mistress all the
dreadful things Sidney Manning said there
in the darkness, when she delivered her
message. And so that part of the romance
ended and he went away, and finally se-
cured a position in a mercantile house in
India, and amassed wealth—for it was the
lack of riches that had deprived him of his
darling Esther, and he was determined to
accumulate means enough to make her a
home suited to her circumstances, should
she ever be free again to choose for herself;
and he would wait until that time came,
always believing in her affection and trust-
ing in his knowledge of her character. And
he esteemed her far more for the sacrifice
she made in giving him up, when, in his
mistaken sense of right, he would have
stolen another man’s wife. She had saved
herself and him too, and when far away
from her in a foreign land and meditating
upon her loveliness of character, he could
appreciate the strength and fortitude she
manifested in withstanding the great temp-
tation.
	When Sidney Manning heard of the sud-
den death of Esther’s husband, he had
mastered his feelings to such an extent that
he did not rejoice; and he waited on,
wondering if she would make any sign to
him, any recognition of her first promise


[Column 1]
that she had never redeemed. But she did
not, she was too proud for that, and the
impulsive girl had changed into a well-de-
veloped woman. So after a time he wrote,
and Esther Danforth took months to deliber-
ate before replying; and when she did write,
was careful not to make any sort of com-
promise. Had it not been for the thrilling
episode in their lives, that came near end-
ing in a tragedy, she would have acted
differently, now she was doubly reserved.
Bye and bye he wrote again, then she said:
"Wait," and he had waited long enough,
he thought, for her, and too long by far for
him.
	One morning at breakfast time Uncle
William handed Aunt Esther a letter in
Polly's handwriting, which gave her no
concern; but as she opened it another letter
fell out upon the table. Alice caught it
up, thinking it might be for her, but Esther
had seen the name, and knew instantly
that it was from her old sweetheart.
	"Excuse me, Aunt Esther," said Alice,
"it is for you, after all, but such a peculiar
hand, looks like foreign paper, but there’s
no postmark, there must be visitors at the
Wren’s Nest. What does Polly say?"
	There was no help for it, Aunt Esther
must answer. Her face was flushing, she
knew, and trying to be as calm as possible,
turning to her sister, who was eyeing her
very closely, she stammered out, "Sidney
—Mr. Manning, I mean—he’s returned
from abroad."
	"And pray who is Sidney—Mr. Man-
ning, Auntie?"
	Before she could reply Aunt Jane had
spoken for her, "Your Aunt Esther’s old
sweetheart, Alice."
	Mrs. Danforth protested and blushed a
deeper crimson; but the secret was out
nevertheless, and Alice was delighted.
	"O, that’s what Polly meant when she
said you had a romance in your life."
	"What can Polly know of my sister’s
sweetheart? She was nothing but a child
when this affair with Sidney Manning oc-
curred, that’s why we all called him Esther’s
sweetheart. Father and mother didn’t ap-
prove of children being engaged and broke
the matter off, and my sister was sent away
from home to cure her. But I always had
an idea it was a kind of hopeless case, for
he never married, at least we never heard
of it, and as for Esther, she is blushing to
the very tips of her ears, for all the world
like a young girl of sixteen—and she’s six
and thirty."
	"Isn’t it enough to make any one blush,
to have such things repeated in one’s
presence? I wish Sidney Manning had
stayed in India."
	"In India, Auntie? Well, if that isn’t
fine! A rich uncle from India for the holi-
days after all. Can’t you invite him to
come here, Aunt Jane?"
	"That must be as my sister Esther says,"
she replied. "I would like it very much."
	"He’s not your uncle, Alice," said Aunt
Esther, "and it’s very improper for you to
call him so, and your Aunt Jane’s house is
full of visitors already."
	At this Alice subsided for a few moments;
but there was very little breakfast eaten by
any of the ladies that morning. Aunt Jane
recalled one remembrance after another of
the days when Esther was a child, and it
was all very interesting for the young folks.
Alice declared it was just what she always
had thought from fragments Polly had
dropped now and then, though how she had
found it out no one could tell; and now it

[Column 2]
had come out accidentally, and just what she
had begged Aunt Esther to tell her about
herself.
	The party Aunt Jane had intended to
give in honor of her visitors had been post-
poned from one time to another on some
pretext, and the night before the arrival of
Aunt Esther’s queer letter, the host and
hostess had come to the conclusion it should
come off on Christmas eve; and it was to
have been discussed at the breakfast table,
when all the family were together; but the
unfortunate letter had put it entirely out of
Aunt Jane’s mind, and upon arising from
the table Aunt Esther had gone to her
room, presumably to read her letter from
home.
	Poor Aunt Esther! here was another di-
lemma! Polly wrote that Mr. Manning
had come unceremoniously to the Wren’s
Nest, and finding Mrs. Danforth absent,
had inquired of her whether her mistress
had received a foreign letter recently; and
she had answered truthfully that she had.
Then he wanted to know if any message
had been left for him, and she told him
there was none. Next, where she had
gone, and when she was expected home?
She had gone to M—in Franklin Coun-
ty, to her sister, Mrs. Wetherell, and as to
her return, it was indefinite. Then Polly
said, "He asked me to let him write a let-
ter, and would I write one and enclose it in
mine? And I hope, my dear mistress, you
will not be offended, for he seemed so sad
and disappointed that you were not here."
	Having finished Polly’s letter, which
contained little else. Esther Danforth broke
the seal of the other. There is always a
sort of charm about a pretty seal—and it
adds to the interest of a letter’s contents.
But this letter was a "love letter" indeed.
He accused her of running away from him,
and warned her that he should follow her
to the ends of the earth, if need be; re-
minded her of walks and rambles they had
taken together in the beautiful past, and of
the kisses he had stolen from her sweet lips.
He seemed to have forgotten that she was
a matronly woman now, and he no longer
the young lover, nor the "little sweetheart."
	The longer Esther stayed and pondered
over the letter, the more bewildered she
grew. She could not see him there, it
would be worse than being at home; there
so many would not be looking on. She
had half a mind to pack her trunk and go
back, but that seemed impracticable; and,
wavering between this and that, she knelt
and prayed for wisdom. A sweet peace
came with the prayer, and she joined the
family group in the sitting room.
	Alice exclaimed as soon as her aunt came
in, "Aunt Jane will write to Mr. Manning
to come this very day—but even then he
can’t reach here for the party."
	"Have you any objection, Esther?" her
sister inquired.
	"Just as you please, Jane; but remember
this is your invitation, not mine," said
Esther emphatically.
	The letter was dispatched, and Alice was
eager to see what this old sweetheart of her
auntie’s was like, and asked numerous
questions; but as no one knew much more
than she did, she did not get much of an
idea. Aunt Jane had said, though, that to
the best of her recollection he had a very
fine figure and a handsome face.
	Christmas eve came, and the house was
profusely decorated; for the party was to be
quite an elaborate affair for a country town,
and every one seemed in the gayest of

[Column 3]
spirits, except Aunt Esther, who went
from room to room, seemingly without any
object in view. Later on in the evening,
when all the guests had arrived, and the re-
freshments had been served and abundant-
ly partaken of, a sharp ring from the old-
fashioned knocker vibrated through the
house and startled the company.
	"Who can it be at this late hour?" said
two or three in a breath; but they had not
long to wait. A stranger, muffled to the
chin in furs, and covered with snow, stood
in the hallway and in every adjacent door-
way the guests crowded to see the new
comer. Mr. Wetherell guessed who he
was and took him into his room, a sort of
office, or what would nowadays be styled a
den. Some explanations were made by the
stranger, and he excused himself for being
muffled by saying he had been so long ac-
customed to a hot climate. Mr. Wetherell
treated his guest to refreshments, and after
partaking of coffee, etc., he was introduced
to the company assembled there, as an old
friend of the hostess.
	This was a great relief to Aunt Esther
when she heard of it afterwards, as she was
suffering meantime, not knowing what ex-
cuse had been made for his unexpected ap-
pearance.
	Mr. Manning was very affable and dig-
nified in manner, and a perfect master of
language in conversation. His extensive
travels abroad had given him ease and
grace in society, and he "took the castle by
storm," so to speak. The girls were
charmed with him, and the young men
were gracious and deferential. Little he
cared for all the respect lavished upon him
from these warm-hearted country people—
he had only eyes and ears for one, his lost
Esther. And she was nowhere to be seen.
She had fled to her room at the sound of his
voice; she could not meet him in the pres-
ence of others. Finally the music ceased,
and the dancers stepped from the scene of
the festivity and rejoicing, and the family
gathered around the great blazing fire. The
night was cold, and the wind howled out-
side, and yet within there was peace and
hospitality and good cheer. When the
young people had left the room, Sidney
Manning ventured to inquire of Jane,
whom he had known well twenty years be-
fore. where her sister, Mrs. Danlorth, was.
	"She is very nervous tonight," Jane re-
plied, "and extremely sensitive. She can-
not endure much excitement, and retired to
her room some time since."
	"Indeed," replied the gentleman, "and
shall I not be able to see her until tomor-
row? And I have come so far across the
sea, and up here into these rocky hills for
that one purpose. I must see her for a few
moments, she must not refuse. Will you
intercede for me, Jane? You, who have
lived such peaceful, quiet lives, know little
of the turbulent restlessness of one tossed
upon the fateful sea of uncertainty: at one
moment ready to sink, and then, a fair sail
in sight, taking courage once more."
	Mrs. Wetkerell’s heart was touched with
compassion, and she promised to try and
persuade Esther to meet him that night, or
morning, for it was now past midnight.
Jane was as good as her word. She en-
treated Esther to see him for a few minutes,
even if the hour was so late it would be a
pleasure to him.
	"Jane," said the woman in pitying tones,
"you are mistaken, he will be disappointed,
he thinks to find me the romantic girl he
left when he went away. I am old beyond


[Column 1]
my years, and I shall not please his fastidi-
ous tastes, and it will only be a trial for me
that I shrink from enduring."
	"Oh, Esther, do go and let him see that
you are not afraid to meet him."
	"Yes, Jane, I will go," said Esther, "for
I am not a moral coward." And she went
down as calm and placid as a summer
morning.
	Mr. and Mrs. Wetherell left them to meet
alone, and Aunt Esther walked quietly into
the great, old-fashioned parlor to meet her
fate, her old sweetheart expecting she
knew not what sort of a reception. But he,
hearing her soft footfall, turned quickly and
reached out his strong arms and clasped her
to his bosom ere she had time to elude his
grasp. Neither spoke for some minutes,
for their silence was more eloquent than
speech, however daintily fashioned. At last
Sidney Manning repeated her name, but
she answered not.
	"Esther," said he again, "we meet once
more, and we are both free. I have waited
long for this meeting. Have you nothing
to say to me after all the long years of con-
stancy?"
	Esther felt there was a barrier even
now, but she could not introduce the sub-
ject tonight, it was too late to enter upon
untrodden ground, so she only said, in the
most indifferent tone, "You must be very
weary, and my brother-in-law is waiting to
show you to your room—tomorrow we
shall have time to renew our acquaintance
—good night, Sidney," and she hurried
from the room.
	He stood by the mantle and leaned his
head upon his hand in a maze of bewilder-
ment. He was as much in doubt whether
she loved him or not as any young, inex-
perienced boy could be. And yet she did
love him passionately, but she kept the
secret in her own soul, woman-like, deter-
mined to prove him, though she might
stake all of earthly happiness and find her-
self the loser.
	During the following day and days after,
Mr. Wetherell opened up conversation with
his guest upon Mormonism, of which he con-
fessed he never heard before, nor of Joseph
Smith nor the Book of Mormon; he was
indifferent, he acknowledged, to all religions.
He had busied himself with men, money
and schemes to accumulate wealth while
abroad, and left religion for an after con-
sideration. Such is the way of the world
in all ages, except in rare instances. Es-
ther heard his remarks without comment,
but feared a wide gulf was opening between
them which it would be difficult to bridge
over, and she became more and more reti-
cent in conversing with him. At present
Sidney Manning was bent upon making
love to Esther—the young and fascinating
widow—and she was mistaken when she
told her sister that he would be disappoint-
ed in her appearance; far from it, he
thought her more charming than in her
younger days, if possible.
	Alice’s courtship was progressing favor-
ably, all seemed to be smooth sailing in
their direction. Not so with the others.
Obstacles kept looming up, and Sidney
thought there was no chance at all for him.
Esther’s time was occupied with many calls
and visits. A tender word now and then
when he could meet her in the hallway
alone, was about the extent of his advan-
tages. He knew that some business had to
be attended to soon in Boston, and thought
he would go and transact it while Esther

[Column 2]
was so much engaged, and visit her at her
own home when she returned, when he
hoped he would be the chief attraction.
The Wetherells persuaded him to remain
until after New Years, and hoping he
might secure an interview on that auspici-
ous day, he consented to stay until that
time. He was disappointed, however; the
house was full of callers and some friends
had been invited to dine. The day sped
swiftly by, and he had decided to leave
early the next morning. He invited Rich-
ard Ashburn to accompany him, thinking
it would hurry Alice and her aunt home a
few days sooner.
	Mrs. Danforth had intended remaining
much longer, but as her niece had made up
her mind to get married in the coming
spring, she decided to go home and set
about preparations, though she did not take
Sidney’s case into consideration as an in-
centive to her going. The visit had not
only been a pleasant but a profitable one,
and Aunt Esther realized how great a bless-
ing had come to her through the Gospel
she had heard and embraced. She was al-
ready planning to leave her native state and
go to join the people of her choice in the
chosen home of the Saints.
	About a week after Manning’s and Rich-
ard’s departure, Aunt Esther and Alice
took the stage for home; with consider-
able reluctance though, for they had met
many pleasant people, and partings give us
all more pain than pleasure. But our lives
are mostly made up of these trifles—coming
and going, meeting and parting; and we
must take the sweet along with the bitter
or we would never know the contrast, and
an overdose of sweets is very injurious and
sometimes fatal, though we all long for it
more or less, and some people really seem
to get more than their share in this life.
	Poor Aunt Esther plainly saw that there
was to be another struggle with her feel-
ings, another temptation was near; and
whether she could overcome it or not she
was scarcely satisfied in her own mind. She
had no adviser, no one upon whom she
could lean, and her human heart cried out
sharply for the love she had never been
permitted to enjoy in its full completeness.
Now it was within her reach, she could ac-
cept it if she would; but would it not be at
the sacrifice of something higher and holier
and more lasting than mere earthly happi-
ness at its best? Esther Danforth prayed
for guidance from above, it was her only
hope and stay.
	Aunt Esther had no trouble in convinc-
ing Polly and Ben, her two trusted helps,
of the new religion as she called it, and
when shortly after some Elders who had
visited Boston came out to Mrs. Danforth’s,
who lived a little way out in the suburbs,
both of them were ready for baptism.
Others of her neighbors, too, believed,
among them the Elmores, which was a
source of joy to Aunt Esther and Alice,
especially because of Harry.
	Sidney Manning and Richard Ashburn
were not long away from the Wren’s Nest
after its mistress returned and many pleas-
ant evenings were spent there, happily for
all except Aunt Esther, who felt too keenly
the risk she was running; for she had
known by intuition all along that her old
sweetheart, as he had been christened by
the young folks, was not favorable to her
views upon religion, and to her nature it
seemed a positive necessity. He wanted
her exclusively, and that only, he declared,

[Column 3]
would satisfy him. But she was different
and her needs were greater; she, too, want-
ed his love and something higher and
purer. Day after day the struggle went on,
until Alice’s marriage. Then the calmness
was ruffled a little, when Mr. Manning in-
sisted upon their marriage upon the same
day with Alice and Richard. Esther made
such an emphatic resistance that it came
near destroying their friendly relations for
the future.
	It would be quite impossible here to de-
scribe in detail the particulars of Alice’s
wedding, but suffice to say, she had every-
thing she desired and was a perfect picture
of loveliness herself. The Elmore girls
were her bridesmaids, and young Mr.
Wetherell, her cousin, was Richard’s best
man. Her rich uncle from India, as she
playfully called Mr. Manning, gave her an
elegant India shawl and several odd and
pretty ornaments.
	After the wedding Mr. Manning still
continued his visits to the Wren’s Nest, and
as time went on, he grew impatient of
the delay for the fulfilment of the dream of
his life, and used all the powers of per-
suasion he possessed to get Esther to name
the happy day. At last Esther summoned
all her courage and assured him it could
never be. It almost broke her heart, the
inward struggle was so great; but she saw
with a woman’s keen intuition that her
happiness would not be secured by giving
way to this earthly love that clashed with
her religion, and she knew herself to be
equal to the occasion. For her "old sweet-
heart," as every one had come to call him
now, she felt deeply; he had staked all and
was about to lose. He had no faith to lean
upon, and while she talked to him, this
great, strong man sobbed like a child.
	When he recovered himself sufficiently to
speak, he said: "Esther, my darling, if you
should change your mind, if you should be
unhappy and want me, or if misfortune
should come to you, don’t hesitate to come
to me or send for me, I will come if I am
living. I would marry you notwithstand-
ing the doubts you entertain of our happi-
ness, but I cannot take you unless you are
wholly satisfied. And now I must go
away, I dare not linger near you, I should
be desperate," and he caught her in his
arms, showered her with burning kisses,
and the hot tears fell like rain upon her
face. A moment more and he was gone—
fled from her forever. She did not dare
look after him lest she should call him
back, and have to go over the same scene
again. It was over, and her "sweetheart"
had left her. She sank upon the sofa and
gave way to a passionate burst of grief.
	And now Esther’s sweetheart has gone,
we must draw our story to a close. There
is little more to tell. Poor Aunt Esther
went about her daily duties as before, only
she grew more and more tender and lovable.
For some years letters came regularly from
India, and occasionally some valuable gift.
Twice she wrote to him upon Gospel sub-
jects, she did not dare trust her pen to speak
for her of other things. Bye and bye the
letters ceased coming, and then she knew
Sidney Manning was dead. She remained
constant in her devotion to her old sweet-
heart, and never married after, though she
had many opportunities. She devoted her
time, her means and her energies all to
doing good to others in the household of
faith, and many there were who received
blessings at her hands.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NEW ORGANIZATION.
PROVO, UTAH, MAY 30.
Editor Woman's Exponent:
	Myself and Sister Daniels visited Knights-
ville to organize a Relief Society in that
branch on the 28th inst.  We had a lovely
visit with our old friend from Provo who
resides there; also had a good time with the
Saints at meeting.  Elder Wm. McCul-
lough and counselors met us at the depot. 
	Knightsville is a pretty little nook in a 
rich mineral district.  The people have
nice homes, and there are many of Provo’s
old settlers who have had extensive ex-
perience in the Church, and will succeed in 
the Relief Society work.
	The ride in the railroad car was superb !
The scenery in the cañon was grand ! It
was my first visit in the Tintic district.
	The following names were nominated
and unanimously sustained as officers of the 
Relief Society:  Mrs. Mary Jane Wilkins,
president;  Mrs. M. A. McCullough and 
Mrs. R. Haws, counselors; Mrs. Louie Boyle, 
secretary; Mrs. Borak, treasurer. 
	With much love, and wishing you suc-
cess on your tour to England and return, I
remain,
Yours Sincerely,
MARY JOHN.


OBITUARY.

MARY GRIFFITHS WILLIAMS DAVIS.

	We have been called upon to part with one of
our beloved sisters in the Relief Society, Sister
Mary Griffiths Williams Davis. She was born in
Glamorganshire, South Wales, and emigrated to
Utah in 1865. Died at Union, May 1st, 1899, after
a lingering illness.
	Sister Davis was a faithful Latter-day Saint,
ever ready to help the poor and needy, charitable
in all her actions. To know her was to love her.
	We feel to sympathize with her aged partner in
life; also with her sons and daughters, and sincere-
ly hope that they may be sustained in the hour of
trial, and feel that the Lord doeth all things well.
	Peaceful be thy silent slumber,
		Peaceful in the grave so low;
	Thou no more wilt join our number,
		Thou no more our songs shalt know.
	Yet, again we hope to meet thee,
		Here thy loss we sadly feel;
	But ’tis God that hath bereft us,
		He can all our sorrows heal.
M. A. SMART.

KATE PLATTE WALKER.
	Died.—In Oak City, Millard Co., Utah, March
25, 1899, Kate Platte Walker, wife of Simeon Walk-
er and daughter of Henry and Mary Ann Roper.
	She was born on the Platte River, at Red Butte
Station, Sep. 23, 1859. Her sickness was of short
duration, but her suffering was intense; still her
faith never wavered, and she had great faith in
the ordinance of the Gospel for the healing of the
sick. The Elders were frequently called in, and
many times her sufferings were greatly relieved.
	She was permitted to see the beauties of the
world she was going to, and described them to
those around her; also told of seeing some of her
friends who had gone before. 
	Her husband and children could not resign
themselves to part with the wife and mother they
loved so well, and clung to her, praying God to spare
her to them, till she begged them to give her up
and let her spirit go in peace. Much sympathy is
felt for her aged father to whom she was devotedly
attached, and for her sweet little babe only six
months old. Father, sisters and friends will do all
they can for the little one, but a mother’s love she
will never know.
	Sister Walker was a member of the Relief Soci-
ety, having served as a teacher for fifteen years.
She also belonged to the ward choir and the Y. L.
M. I. A., and was a great favorite generally. Her
place cannot be filled. She was the mother of
nine children; two she has with her, the others are
left to mourn her loss.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT. 
	Whereas the Ruler of all has in His wisdom re


moved by death from our midst our beloved sister
and friend, Kate Platte Walker; and
	Whereas the long and intimate relation we have
held with her as a member of the Relief Society
has endeared her to us and we deeply feel our loss,
therefore be it
	RESOLVED, That her example as a wife, mother
and member of this society be held in grateful re-
membrance; and
	RESOLVED, That the sudden removal by death of
such a universal favorite is deeply felt, and the
vacancy caused by her death cannot be filled, and
with deep sympathy for the relatives we pray our
Heavenly Father to bless and comfort them.
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
placed upon our minutes and recorded in our
records. 
	(Written by Mary M. Lyman at the request of
Caroline E. Lyman, president of the seciety.)


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	Minutes of the Semi-Monthly Meeting of
April 15, 1899, President M. I. Horne pre-
siding. Singing, "Arise O, glorious Zion."
Prayer by Sister H. M. Wright. Singing,
"Our God, we raise to Thee." Minutes
read and accepted.
	President Horne said all who were pres-
ent would receive a blessing. Said
we were once in the presence of our
Heavenly Father, that we were all ac-
quainted there, better than we are here.
This is a school we are passing through to
purify us for eternal glory. Spoke of the
necessity of obedience, and of the glory if
we are faithful. We only have to answer
for our own sins, none escape for breaking
God’s laws, all our acts are recorded in
heaven. Referred to Christ’s teachings
that we should pray for those who despite-
fully use us. This is what we are doing in
sending out our Elders to offer our enemies
life and salvation. "I feel that the Lord
will bless us if we attend to our duties."
Bore a testimony of the mission of the
Prophet Joseph Smith. A great deal is
expected of Zion. Satan will have great
power, even to the calling down of fire
from heaven; we must pray without ceasing
that we may be able to discern the true
spirit.
	Sister Clara Cannon: "I feel that this is
a blessed privilege that we enjoy in meet-
ing together and partaking of this good
spirit. There has never been a time when
I did not know that this Gospel was true."
	Sisters Seebeck, Wright and Waterfall
each bore testimony.
	Sister L. D. Alder needed the strength
she received in these meetings. She be-
lieved those who gather here are those who
have met great trials and deep sorrows.
Spoke of the care the Lord has over us, and
sends His spirit to comfort us in time of
need; of the danger of pride, that it must
have a fall, that it is only pleasing to the
Lord to be humble.
	Counselor Stevenson: "What a joy it
will be to our young women to say in the
future, 'I was born in Zion.'" Spoke of the
magnitude of the magnanimous work being
done in the Temple, that there is no time
to waste. Exhorted all to be very select in
their reading, for that which we read im-
presses us through life.
	Sisters J. S. Woolley, Mary L. Morris
and Munn bore testimony.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing, Doxology. Benediction by Sister M.
O. Brown.

	May 27, 1899, the Ladies’ Semi-Monthly
Meeting convened in the 14th ward hall,
Counselor Elizabeth J. Stevenson presid-
ing. Singing, "Come, come ye Saints."

[Column 2]
Prayer by Counselor Elizabeth Webb.
Singing, "Our God we raise to Thee."
	Sister Stevenson said she wondered how
many were obliged to hurry unusually to
get here. We gather here to get a blessing.
Said she had been to Moab, and it was sur-
prising how the sisters there exert them-
selves to attend their meetings, they are ob-
liged to ride long distances and bring their
babies. They are very anxious to hear the
truths of the Gospel. The line is being
drawn among them as it is here, there are
so many indifferent and there is much mis-
sionary work needed at home. Spoke of
the law of tithing, and believed it was one
of the most necessary laws to obey.
	Sister Johanna Peterson bore a testimony
of the truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Hardy said she thought we were
indeed a blessed people. She thought a
great many did not realize the age in which
we live. President Snow said recently that
though the Gospel of salvation is presen-
ted to the people, yet they would not ac-
cept it.
	Sister Barnes said she was pleased to
meet with the sisters to-day; that she was
anxious to train her children aright.
	Sister Brown said she liked to live so
that she could always have the spirit of the
Lord to guide her.
	Sister Harriet Ann Badger said she felt
to rejoice that she could be in attendance
today. Spoke of the grandeur of the work
of the Relief Society; that there were
30,000 women belonging to this society.
	A sister said though she had not associa-
ted with the authorities of the Church, she
knew they were prophets and apostles, and
that this was the Gospel of Jesus Christ.
	Sister Brixen spoke of her visit to Vernal,
Uintah Co., to attend the young ladies con-
ference. Said how the Lord had healed
her and permitted her to endure the long
journey. They were blessed with an
abundance of the spirit of God. Said
Apostle Lyman had advised all the sisters
to have their names enrolled on the Relief
Society books.
	Counselor Webb said we cannot be
thankful enough that we are Latter-day
Saints. Spoke of the thanks she had to
the Lord that she had the privilege of being
a worker in the Relief Society. Said she
would be pleased to have the young wom-
en join this society.
	Sister Eliza Rawlins bore a testimony of
the truth of the Gospel, a[-]d related a vision
she had that increased her faith.
	Sister Williams, from Pocatello, who was
a member there, had only belonged to the
Church four years, but she felt as if she
had always been a member. She was
taught by her mother to read the scriptures
and to be virtuous. She did not enjoy the
pleasures of the world. Related how she
had been healed and the peace brought to
her soul when the Elders laid their hands
upon her.
	Sister Tora Hafen said she was thankful
for the Gospel and that we have a Father
in heaven. Said she desired to fill the
mission that God had sent her upon the
earth to fill.
	Sister Jane James believed her Heavenly
Father knew she desired to do her duty.
Wished she could have the privilege to do
more. Prayed that Sister Zina and Sis-
ter Horne would be blessed and healed and
their lives prolonged. She then spoke in
tongues.
	Counselor Stevenson spoke of the indif-
ference of the children, and the necessity of


studying the Church  works. Announced
that next Saturday would be the Relief
Society quarterly conference.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks.
				    J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
AFTERNOON SESSION, EMERY STAKE.
Afternoon session. After the opening
exercises Sister Fullmer addressed the con-
ference. She testified to the power of God
that had been made manifest in her day;
she hoped the testimony would ever re-
main with her.
Sister Jane C. Childs, first counselor of
the Stake, reported the conference news of
Salt Lake City, and urged a general better-
ment of the sisters of the Stake. Spoke at
some length on the silk industry, exhibited
some samples of Utah silk and many
pamphlets on sericulture, presented to her
while in the city by Sister Margaret A.
Caine of the Utah Silk Commission.
Sister Ann Pulsipher, second counselor
of the Stake, said it was through the bless-
ings of the Lord she was able to attend this
conference; she was a living witness of the
power of healing in our day. She knew
these gifts were with this people, or she
would not be with us at the present time.
Sisters Hansen, Cheshire, Grange, Hitch-
cock and Killian each bore a faithful testi-
mony to the truth of the Gospel.
The officers were presented by J. E.
Childs, and unanimously sustained.
In the evening a meeting was held,
Brothers Lambert and Pulsipher being the
principal speakers, which was of interest to
both old and young.
Conference adjourned to meet at Orange-
ville in October.
ST. GEORGE STAKE.
On May 19th, 1899, in the evening, a
Stake Relief Society meeting was held in
the St. George Tabernacle, President Ann
C. Woodbury presiding. This meeting had
been specially appointed for the purpose of
meeting with Sisters Jane S. Richards and
Minnie J. Snow. Sister Lyman and
Sister Josephine, R. West, Apostles Rich-
ards and Lyman and President Seymour B.
Young were also present.
After opening exercises President Wood-
bury made a few remarks welcoming our
visitors, followed by Counselor Mary G.
Whitehead, whose remarks were timely
and to the point.
Sister Jane S. Richards then spoke, ex-
pressing regret that our dear Aunt Zina
could not be with us, and delivering a lov-
ing message from her to the sisters in St.
George Stake. She thought it our duty to
cultivate faith, charity to the erring and
love for each other. We should be kind to
those who despitefully use us, speak well
of people while living, and not wait until
they are dead to say a good word. It is
necessary for us to have trials, and she was
thankful for them. Related many inter-
esting experiences of her labors as a mem-
ber of the Relief Society.
Sister Lyman bore an earnest testimony
to the truth of the Gospel.
President Ann C. Woodbury spoke on
the silk industry, exhibiting a piece of silk
recently woven in St. George, that was in
all ways creditable and encouraging.
Apostle Lyman testified to the great
work accomplished by the Relief Society in
assisting in building meeting houses, taking
care of the sick and providing for the poor.

[Column 2]
Suggested a remedy for a weak and illy
attended society. This was for every mem-
ber to make it her business to advocate the
society, until every married woman was a
member actively engaged in its labors.
Asked the sisters to help their husbands,
brothers and sons to pay a full tithing.
Spoke also of the interest taken by Presi-
dent Brigham Young in the southern
country, and the fact of his having lived
here a part of his time, and thought the
people ought to be very grateful for it. He
referred to Apostle Erastus Snow in his
labors here, and thought him only second
to Brigham Young as a colonizer and pio-
neer.
Apostle Richards congratulated the sis-
ters on their large congregation. He appre-
ciated the hardships the society had
undergone, and was glad we had been
favored in building and dedicating the first
Temple reared in Utah. He paid a grace-
ful compliment to the sisters and the Relief
Society by saying that if he wished any-
thing well done, he would put it into the
hands of the society. Advised the estab-
lishment of a certain age as the time
when the sisters might be expected
to join the Relief Society. He was pleased
with the report of the silk industry, and
blessed and encouraged Sister Woodbury
in her labors in this line.
Sister West testified to having been a
member of the Relief Society since her six-
teenth year, and had greatly enjoyed her
labors therein. Spoke a short time in
favor of the Primary Association, of which
she is an aid. Suggested the teaching and
practical application of the principle of tith-
ing to the children. In their Stake they
had sent in nickel contributions to the Salt
Lake Temple to the amount of $225.00, be-
sides assisting in other enterprises. She
felt it a great honor and blessing to be one
of President Snow’s party, and thanked the
people for their courtesy.
It was unanimously voted that all pres-
ent send their love to “Aunt Zina.”
Closing remarks were made by Sisters
Richards and Woodbury. Benediction was
pronounced by President D. D. McArthur.
JULIA A. PACE, Cor. Sec.


TO MY CLASS.
Farewell ! strange sounds the word, strange and
     sad;
   The sun shines less brightly, dark shadows appear;
It means a change has come, we are not glad,
   And perchance there falls a regretful tear.

Farewell ! the vista of the future seems long;
   We are deprived of those to us so very dear;
On the still air falls the farewell song,
   Its melody wafting softly far then near.
 
Farewell ! tenderly bursts the sad refrain;
   Farewell to this class, to me so very dear—
Hope shines on the path before, we'll meet again,—
   Glad summers come with every passing year.

Land nor seas can change memories of the Past,
   The Past where live the dear ones we have loved,
Our friends through weal or woe unto the last,—
   Engraved on my heart are your names, my be-
	lov’d.

But now farewell ! 'tis but the chimes of a bell,
   That warns us of time swiftly speeding along;
And soon in the past they solemnly tell
   We’ll forgotten be, like the notes of a song.

Not so love; it lives forever, knows no decay,
   The heart where love dwells sings a living song;
Upward it leads to mansions far away,
   Where life, and joy, and happiness belong.

If mad surges roll, cling close to your God,
   See His outstretched hands just over the way; 
When like children weary we sleep ’neath the sod,
   May we meet up above in the courts of day.


Sing on Life’s journey Hope's, inspiring song,
	The future will brighten, flowers will spring,
What seems a dark shadow or the way so long,
	May sweet messengers be, and blessings bring.
						L. D. ALDER.
	Theological Class, Second Ward, S. L.,  City
May, 1899.


On the 8th of July there will be a grand
Primary excursion to Saltair.  Everybody
come and see the children.  Good program
and prizes for both boys and girls.


Save Your Money!
And when you set a dollar, deposit it
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank in Utah.
Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts.
The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW.
We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said
interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

R. K. THOMAS

Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.

SALT LAKE CITY. 

The Leading Retail 

Cash House.

R. K. THOMAS

GARFIELD BEACH.
POPULAR
BATHING
BEACH. RESORT.
OPEN JUNE 22.

Boating, Bathing, Dancing.
TRAIN SERVICE:
LEAVE 	LEAVE
SALT LAKE.	GARFIELD.
10 30 a.m.	1:00 p.m.
2:15 p.m.		5:30 p.m. 
4:30 p.m.		7:30 p.m.
6:45 p.m.		10:00 p.m.

Round Trip 25c.

Depot Cor. First South and Fourth West.


Woman’s Exponent
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation. 
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15, 1899.
Vol 28. No 4.


CONTENTS.
Women’s International Council............. 25.
Ladies' Semi-Monthly Meeting.. J. S. Woolley 26.
Old Folks’ Day at Parowan, E. Crane Watson 26.
An Interesting Letter....Caroline E. R. Wells 27.
Tribute to Our Women.................... 27.
A Woman Missionary.... Mrs. Addison Pratt 29.
R. S. Reports—Rigby Ward.. Eleanor Homer 30.
	Bear Lake Stake..........N. H. Allred 30.
	Salt Lake Stake.....Augusta W. Grant 31.
Obituary—Myra Clayton Winter.......Com. 31.
Let Us Have Peace..........Josie E. Childs 32.
American Women take Tea with the Queen 32.
EDITORIAL:—Charity and Labor
....................L. L. Greene Richards 28.
	To Sister Elizabeth Stevenson......Lula 28.
POETRY:—Our God and His Prophet
....................L. L. Greene Richards 25.
The Voiceless Syllables of Grass......T. 27


OUR GOD AND HIS PROPHET.

Our God—the God of Abraham,
   Isaac and Jacob, Prophets true;
The Great Omnipotent I Am:
   Let earth proclaim Thy praise anew!

Taking unto Thyself Thine own,
   Thy people mourned a Prophet dead;
Yet when twelve days had scarcely flown,
   Thou gav’st another in his stead.

Let Saints extol Thy name, and praise
   Thy matchless power to guide and bless;
Thy wond’rous work, in latter-days,
Thou cuttest short in righteousness.

Thy Prophet, as in days of old,
   Into Thy Temple dost repair:
Thy love doth marvelous light unfold,
   In answer to his fervent prayer.

With mighty faith he humbly kneels,
   To ascertain Thy holy will:
Thy grace the sovereign mind reveals;
   Thy promises Thou dost fulfill.

The vail ’twixt Thee and man withdrawn,
   Thy people understand and know,
In place of Wilford Woodruff, gone,
   Thou gavest them Lorenzo Snow.

By Joseph Smith and Brigham Young, 
   John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, all,
He's nobly stood and labored 'mong
   Thy chosen people, great and small.

No truer friend hath Prophets known,
   No truer Prophet Saints need seek,
Than he to whom Thy mind is shown, 
   And by whose mouth Thy voice doth
	speak

One like to Moses, faithful proved,
   With sight undimmed and form erect, 
For more than eighty years, unmoved—
   Shall nations scoff? Will Saints reject?

"A full, free tithe the Saints must pay,
   From this time on”—God’s just demand:
Hear it, repeat it, and obey— 
   Ye Saints of God on every hand!

Thus doth the Prophet’s voice declare;
   So shall the Saints be justified;
Shake off the burdens, hard to bear,
   Of self-will, covetousness and pride.

Look to the God of Abraham,
   Ye Saints, and heed His Prophet’s voice;
Honor and serve the Great I Am,
   And in His covenant rejoice.

Spread Zion’s bound’ries far and wide,
   Her Center Stake redeem and build;
So shall our God be glorified, 
   His Prophet’s words be all fulfilled.

Let Zion’s children know and tell,
   Near and afar, where’er they go,
There is a God of Israel,
   Whose Prophet is Lorenzo Snow.
			   L. L. GREENE RICHARDS,
Sunday, July 2nd, 1899.


[Column 1]
WOMEN'S INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL.
	The reports of the Women’s International
Council which have reached this country are
meagre and inadequate, but it is clear that the
Council was a success, both from the exul-
tation of its friends and the growls of its
enemies. A correspondent of the N. Y.
Tribune says:
	"London has offered many unique attrac-
tions for the throngs of visitors this week.
The Woman’s International Council, with
scores of famous women from Europe,
America and the colonies, has been a re-
markable tournament of wit, wisdom and
tact. The House of Lords threw down the
gauntlet in ungallant style on the opening
day by amending the London bill with a
view to shutting women out of the new
Metropolitan Councils. The action of
these three hundred peers, who only turn
out for full dress parade in order to snub
women, frown upon deceased wives’ sis-
ters and affront Erin, has not interfered
with the Council’s leisurely and contempla-
tive rambles in every field of discussion
under the sun. With more than fifty
meetings and the best platform talkers of
the sex to address the delegates, this parlia-
ment of women has been a triumph of or-
ganization, moderation and good sense. If
it has done nothing else, it has offered con-
vincing proof of the remarkable talent of
women for public speaking and the wide
range of their interests under modern con-
ditions of education.
	"Apart from the passage of a resolution in
favor of arbitration, the Council has not
taken definite action on any subject, and
Lady Aberdeen’s presidential address sug-
gested no other motive for the assembly
than the Golden Rule of love, which was a
generalization sufficiently broad for a
World’s Congress, but was neither sensa-
tional nor revolutionary.
	"Lady Aberdeen has been the most con-
spicuous figure of the Congress, presiding
with dignity and grace. Miss Anthony
has excited more enthusiasm than any
other speaker, and the American delegates
generally have done the best work. Among
these are Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Stets[-]n,
Miss Genevieve Ward, Mrs. Cynthia West-
over Alden, Miss May Shaw, Mrs. May
Wright Sewall, Mrs. Fannie St. J. Gaffney
and the Rev. Anna Howard Shaw. The
most interesting meeting was that presided
over by Mrs. Kendal, when the drama as a
field for women was considered. Mrs.
Flora Annie Steel, Mrs. Kate Douglas
Wiggin and Lady Lindsay were the chief
figures at a similar meeting under the
head of literature. The delegates have
been entertained at Stafford House, Fulham
Palace and many private houses."
	The London Society of American Wom-
en gave a luncheon at the Hotel Cecil in
honor of the American delegates on July 3.
Mrs. Hughes Griffin, the president of the
society, occupied the chair, flanked by
Lady Aberdeen, the president of the Wom-
en’s International Council, on the right,
and Mrs. Choate, wife of the ambassador,
on the left. The tables were decorated
with red, white and blue flowers, and

[Column 2]
American and British flags were displayed
behind the chair. There were 250 persons
present, all of them women except the
brother of Miss Leonora Jackson, the
violiniste, who plays accompaniments.
	Mrs. Hughes Griffin gave an address of
welcome to the American delegates, and
Lady Aberdeen, on behalf of the Women's
International Council, thanked the Ameri-
can women for the help and inspiration
they had given to women in general. "We
are indebted to the American women," she
said, "for many grand ideas. Much of the
increased brightness of our lives is due to
the fact that it is now granted that women
have a sense of humor."
	Mrs. May Wright Sewall, vice-president
of the Council, said that America was be-
coming a country which, by the necessity
of its institutions and relationships, must
move toward internationalism. Mrs.
Charlotte Perkins Stetson and Mrs. Jennie
C. Croly also spoke.
	At one meeting of the Council, which
was devoted to agriculture, Mrs. Alexander
Tweedle presided. Prof. Robertson, of
Canada, said he considered agriculture a
most suitable occupation for women. Lady
Vernon said that dairying was pre-eminent-
ly woman’s work. She urged that atten-
tion be given by women to butter-making
in winter and cheese-making in summer.
Mrs. Virginia C. Meredith, of the School of
Agriculture at the Minnesota State Uni-
versity, advocated stock breeding for wom-
en. Mme. Delen, of Bruges, spoke on the
women’s agricultural work in Belgium.
Mrs. Margaret A. Caine gave an exposition
of silk culture as an occupation for women,
and Mrs. Alexander described ostrich
farming by women in New Zealand.
	At the meeting devoted to women fac-
tory inspectors, the Hon. Mrs. Lyttleton
presiding, a paper by Mrs. Carlyle, of
Canada, was read by Mrs. Carty. It
showed the strides made in Canada in re-
gard to women inspectors and labor legisla-
sion in general.
	"The Scientific Treatment of Domestic
Servants," was another subject discussed.
Mrs. Gates, speaking of the necessity of
training the lady of the house as well as
the servants, complimented the Queen,
and declared that "this queenly woman
and womanly Queen" had had an influence
upon women as mistresses of servants as
well as in other relations of life.
	Dr. Garnett, who presided over the con-
ference of women librarians and indexers,
said that England was far behind America
in paying women librarians.
	Countess Bective presided over the meet-
ing which discussed the aptitude of women
in handicrafts.
	On the afternoon of July 4 the delegates
were entertained at a garden party by Lady
Rothschild at Gunnesbury Park, and in
the evening the Countess of Aberdeen gave
them a farewell reception.—Ex.


KNOWLEDGE is better that wealth, yet
how many people there are in this wicked
world who prefer the inferior article.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	The Ladies' Semi-Monthly Meeting of
June 10, 1899, convened in the 14th ward
hall at 2 o'clock, President M. I. Horne
presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing, "We thank
Thee, O God, for a prophet," Prayer by
Sister Margaret P. Young. Singing,
"Welcome best of all good meetings."
Minutes of last meeting read and approved.
	President Horne said she was pleased to
see so many present; that to come together
to testify of the goodness of God, was food
to our spirits. We should set an example
worthy of patronage before our children.
Spoke of the trials that were before us all,
for this is a day of proving. Spoke of the
trials of the early days in Utah, and of the
thankfulness of our hearts that we could
get away from wicked and designing men.
Exhorted us all to train our children by
attending to our duties as we wish them to
do. Spoke of the word of the Lord to 
President Snow, that the people should pay
a full tithing, and of the blessings we
would receive if we would keep the com- 
mandments of God. These commandments
must be kept if we expect to get the bless-
ings. Referred to the great amount of tea
and coffee used in our State, and said how
wrong it must look to our Heavenly Father
that we cannot let these injurious articles
alone. Said she had heard President Young
say that "those who cannot keep the Word
of Wisdom, cannot go to help build up
Jackson County."
	Sister Barnes said she had been a long
while in the Church, but she knew there
was great room for improvement; that the
Relief Society would grow and its good
work increase.
	A sister in the congregation said she be-
lieved in the law of tithing, and that we
would all be blessed in observing this law.
Another sister spoke in tongues.  Sister
Zina D. H. Young gave the interpretation.
	The congregation then sang "Come let
us anew."
	Sister Julia C. Howe said those who are
raised up to lead us are in the right place.
She had always looked upon the law of
tithing as a test of fellowship; we should
teach our children to pay tithing. Spoke
of Daniel's faith, and the wisdom he gained
by refusing the food from the king's table
and observing the laws of nature. Spoke
of the trial it had been to her to stand up
and bear her testimony, but how she had
been greatly blessed in overcoming this
spirit.
	Sister  Liddle spoke of the blessings she
had received from the Lord and the bless-
ings for observing the law of tithing.
	Sister Brown bore a testimony to the law
of tithing and keeping the Sabbath day.
	Sister Barnes, of the 11th ward, knew
that we were richer when we paid our
tithing, we should always pay the best we
have. She had followed out the plan, and
she knew the Lord had blessed her for it.
	Sister Emily Stevenson spoke of the
blessing of Relief Society work, what a
benefit it is to the poor and sick and
afflicted, and the faithful workers that
would no doubt receive a reward.
	A sister in the congregation bore testi-
mony to the law of tithing. Spoke of how
the adversary will take advantage of us
when we neglect little duties.
	Sister Sanders said she had received
many testimonies in this house. Spoke of

[Column 2]
the blessings derived in observing the law
of tithing.
	Sister Smith said she could bear a testi-
mony that the spirit of God was here; also
spoke of the blessing derived from paying
tithing.
	Sister Isaacs knew that her Father heard
and answered prayers. Would rather go
without a great deal and pay an honest
tithing.
	Sister Wright said she always paid her
tithing, and thanked her Father for His
blessings.
	Sister Haite spoke of the glorious work
we are engaged in. Always felt blessed in
paying tithing and donations. Said she
was always pleased to present the Gospel
to those who would accept it.
Sister Bateman said she knew this was
the church of God, and thanked Him for
the privileges she had, for the Gospel and
the privilege of working in the Temple,
etc.; also testified to the truthfulness of the
law of tithing.
	Sister Cooper said she had always paid
an honest tithing and testified to the truth
of the work.
Sister Julia S. Woolley bore testimony
of the law of tithing and standing firm for
the truth.
	Sister Parry spoke of tithing and the
blessings obtained by keeping the com-
mandments of God.
	A sister in the congregation spoke of the
spirit she had been privileged to enjoy,
and said she knew it was proper to pay
an honest tithing. Spoke of the testimony
of a young man, who said that he owed
his success in life to paying an honest tith-
ing.
	Sister Horne said the Lord knows our
weakness, He will be our judge. Spoke of
the sin in breaking the Sabbath day, and
the temptations that were held out to spend
this day in amusements.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing, Doxology. Benediction by Sister
Zina D. H. Young.

The Semi-Monthly Meeting convened as
usual June 24, 1899 in the 14th ward hall
at 2 o'clock. Sister Bathsheba W. Smith
called the meeting to order. Singing,
"For the strength of the hills we bless
Thee." Prayer by Sister Julia Howe.
Singing, "O, say what is truth." Minutes
of previous meeting read and approved.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith said she was
pleased to be present, and felt that this
meeting was a school for the sisters; that
the Lord was always present; that we
must be faithful and true to enable us to
cope with evil influences. Thought that
outside of the sisters engaged in this work
so much love did not exist.
	Sister Julia C. Howe said she thought it
very necessary to have our memories re-
freshed often in regard to doing our duty;
said she felt to honor her parents for teach-
ing her to honor God. She was taught the
scriptures, and when she heard the Gospel
she was prepared to accept it. She thought
it was necessary to have humility in order
to understand the Gospel. Referred to the
humility the Prophet Joseph Smith ex-
pressed in his prayer to the Lord the first
time he went into the woods to pray.
	Sister Brown thanked the Lord that He
had given her a knowledge of the Gospel
and permitted her to work in the Temple.
Said she believed firmly in the law of tith-
ing, and spoke of the good spirit that she

[Column 3]
had always enjoyed at these meetings.
	Counselor Stevenson said she had always
been an attendant at these meetings. She
thought it was necessary for the sisters to
come together often and better prepare
themselves to perform their mission in life.
	Sister Margaret Goddard said she was
thankful that her parents were God-fearing
people.
	Sister Barton said she had always be-
lieved in and practiced the law of tithing.
She knew the Lord had sent many bright
spirits in this age to fill the responsible
positions.
	Sisters Munn, Badger and Waterfall bore
faithful testimonies to the truth of the
work we are engaged in.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks.
					J. S. Woolley, Sec.


OLD FOLKS' DAY AT PAROWAN.
	Parowan, July 3, 1899.
Editor Woman's Exponent:
	Under the auspices of the Relief Society
of this ward, "Old Folks' Day" was cele-
brated on the 29th of June; and we believe
our aged fathers and mothers will long
cherish the remembrance of that worthy
event.  At 2 p. m. a feast of choice variety
was enjoyed;  immediately after a creditable
program was rendered, which seemed to
immensely please those very aged and en-
feebled, who seldom get out to public
gatherings.
	Badges were presented by the Relief
Society designating the time spent by the
wearer in this estate.  Each furrowed
countenance would involuntarily relax into
a smile as the souvenir was fastened upon
his breast, so gratified were they at every
recognition of their old age. 
	At the close of the program, cake and 
lemonade were served, when all those
honored veterans were treated to a carriage
drive.  As usual in our little country
towns the affair was finally crowned with a 
ball in the evening, where refreshments
were again in order.  All over sixty were
given complimentary tickets, and it was
really surprising to see how many who had
passed the third score milestone were
yet able to enjoy the pleasures of the ball-
room.
	Thus ended a happy day, one that had 
created new joys in many hearts who had
perhaps thought they were "unhonored
and unsung." Truly we cannot devote
too much time in making happy days for
our aged ones.  There are none who better
appreciate our efforts, and none to whom
we owe a greater debt. 
				E. CRANE WATSON.


As a result of a series of divisions on the
London government bill in the English
House of Commons recently, it was de-
cided by 179 votes to 77 that women should
not be eligible to act as mayors of London.
The question whether women should be
qualified to sit as councilors was deferred,
and will probably be decided in favor of the
women. Women are already serving ac-
ceptably as county councilors in other
parts of Great Britain, and there seems no
reason why they should be excluded in
London. The men on the London County
Council wish for the co-operation of women,
and petitioned Parliament some ten years
ago to let women serve.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE VOICELESS SYLLABLES OF GRASS.
	(In Sea Drift, a just issued volume of poems by
Grace Ellery Channing, occur these stanzas on
Walt Whitman:)
	O'er Tuscan hills I heard it breathed,
And up the olive slopes it ran, 
And then the laurel all began
Singing of brows once laurel wreathed;
	Of bards whose vanished voiced fill 
The resonant, deep valleys yet;
The laurel never can forget,
Such echoes tremble through it still.
	But I—I let the laurel pass,
And pass, the dim Etrurian land;
Far louder sing within my hand 
The voiceless syllables of grass.
	Your music keeps its mighty ring, 
O ancient groves of Tuscany !
But tenfold eloquent to me
The common herb One taught to sing.
	Green art thou, laurel overhead,
Yet somber to this tiny blade,
And some one says that he who made 
The grass and me to live, is dead.
	It may be true—for Italy
Hath seen the night of many a sun;
Thou, O my Country, hadst but one,
If set, how dim thy light must be!
	It may be false—the sky’s as blue,
The ilex has not dropped a leaf 
Nor earth put off a rose for grief,
And yet, for all—it may be true.
	Unruffled, silver olives wave,
Loud sings the laurel where I pass,
But louder still I hear the grass— 
The grass, new growing, on a grave.
							T.


[Column 1]
AN INTERESTING LETTER.
			
Butte City, Montana, June 20, 1899.

Editor Woman's Exponent:

	Agreeable to promise to write to you
from this place, I now undertake to do so.
	I left Salt Lake City on the O. S. L.
9:45 a. m. train, May 16th, for this place,
in response to a telegram informing me of
the serious illness of my granddaughter,
and requesting me to come.
	It being my first trip out of Utah since I
entered it a little child in 1848, I did not
much like the idea of starting out under
such distressing circumstances; but ‘‘neces-
sity knows no law,” and in response to
the call of distress from her children, a
mother will not stop to discuss the order of
her going, but go.
	The journey was accomplished without
any incident worthy of mention, except the
extreme anxiety of mind which I endured
concerning the condition of my grand-
daughter: whether I should find her dead
or alive at my journey’s end.
	The beginning of the journey being
over roads which I had traveled before,
nothing new presented itself to my view
until I reached Pocatello, where a short
stop occurred. My impression of the
town, from what I could see, was a long
row of shops, stores, etc., with scarcely any
residences in sight, which made me won-
der where all the people lived who patron-
ized them. Then on, over hills and rough
places, going after dark through places
that were new to me, so that I was pre-
vented from seeing much that was really
new. 
	Arriving at my destination at 1:05 a. m.
of the 17th, I was met by my grandson
with a carriage and taken to 206 W. Mer-
cury St., where I found my little grand-
daughter out of danger, thanks to our
Heavenly Father, who honored the ad-
ministration of His servants, Elder Chris-

[Column 2]
tian Williardson, Andrew King and Charles
O. Dickson, who had been constant in
their attendance upon her before I came,
and the care of an excellent physician.
	But with her recovery our troubles were
not over. On the day of her leaving her
bed my daughter was stricken down, and
the doctor, after working with her for a
time,told us that she was in a dying condi-
tion and had not probably over two hours to
live, and asked if we wished to call in any
one else. We told him that we had all the
confidence in him that we could have in
any physician, but I said to him: ‘‘There
is One who can do what you cannot do,
and He is God, and His authorized ser-
vants are here, and He will honor them.”
He said: “All right, if you can do anything
you had better do it quick.”
	We sent for the Elders, who came and
anointed her with oil and laid hands upon
her, and she revived immediately. And
when the doctor came in the next morning,
he said he had never seen anything like it
before in his life, her pulse and tempera-
ture being perfectly normal and she prop-
ped up in bed smiling and looking well.
	Then began a struggle which lasted
about a week, in which she suffered two or
three relapses, when it seemed as though
death would claim the victory. But the
Elders stood by us nobly day and night, as
many as five of them surrounding her bed
in circle prayer when she seemed to be dy-
ing, after which she would revive and ap-
pear to be getting well; and at last, I am
happy and thankful to our Heavenly Fath-
er to be able to say, she is on the road to
complete recovery, although at the end of
two weeks of illness she could not walk one
step.
	I am not able, under the circumstances
which have prevented me from going out
much, to tell you much about Butte, ex-
cept what I have observed from our front
windows, which, by the way, are very
favorably located for the purpose in some
respects.
	There are three things that I have
been able to see without going abroad:
	First: All the funerals from the Catholic
Church (and Butte is principally Catholic)
have to pass our house on their way to the
cemetery, and in consequence we see from
one to five almost every day, anywhere
from one block to one mile in length; and
as the service only occupies about ten min-
utes, there is no tedious waiting one for
another, and we sometimes see three or
four within an hour; and once we saw a
double funeral of two miners who were
killed: two hearses and two long rows of
carriages walking abreast. It was quite a
solemn sight.
	Second: The cripples who daily pass the
house on their way to the hospital around
the corner, their limbs gone, limping,
walking on crutches, heads bandaged, etc.
	Third, last but not least by any means:
The throngs that go to the Catholic church
from 6 a. m. until 12 m. on Sunday, there
being a separate mass every hour, and a
new crowd at each one. Every Sunday
forenoon it looks like our conference at
home.
	One week ago last Sunday we saw fifty
or more little girls going to their first com-
munion, all dressed as brides, in white,
with long veils and orange blossoms; in-
deed they are called the brides of Christ.
I regretted that I had not the opportunity
of witnessing the ceremony.
	The little branch of the Church of Jesus

[Colum  3]
Christ of Latter-day Saints here in Butte
numbers about sixty, and is ably presided
over by Brother Christian Williardson, of
Ephraim, Sanpete Co., who, with Elders
Andrew King, Jr., Hyrum M. Larsen and
Sorenson of Cache Co., and Charles O.
Dickson of Provo, Utah, form a power
here for good in spreading the principles of
the Gospel and administering in the or-
dinances thereof.
	They have a Sunday School and Relief
Society, the latter presided over by Sister
Nellie Yanney, with Sister Andrews and
Sister Sarah Larson as counselors, Sister
Larson having been set apart last Sunday
evening. Sister Watt is secretary of the
society.
	The Elders’ headquarters and place for
meetings, socials, etc., is at 902 Utah Ave.,
S. Butte.
	I have had the privilege of meeting with
the Saints in their regular Sunday after-
noon and evening meetings, also Relief
Society meetings, and have enjoyed the
good influence which prevails there, for I
know that it is of God; and I regret that I
did not have the opportunity of meeting
with them upon their festive occasions,
which occur once a week in the form of a
social party.
	The birthday anniversary of President
Young was duly celebrated, and the Relief
Society will in a few days celebrate their
first anniversary.
	Well,although I did not get to see much,
I might occupy more space in describing
my impressions of people and things that
I have met, but my letter is already per-
haps too lengthy, so I will close with kind
love and a hope of seeing you in the near
future.
		Your sister,,
			CAROLINE E. R. WELLS.


TRIBUTE TO OUR WOMEN.
	A representative of the Associated Press
interviewed the Countess of Aberdeen and
others regarding the practical results likely
to accrue from the international council of
women. Lady Aberdeen, who is an en-
thusiastic admirer of the American and
Canadian delegates, said:
	“Every one of them was a skilled ex-
pert and most of them were trained speakers
whom the congress was delighted to hear,
which cannot be said in regard to many of
the other speakers. The Americans, as a
rule, were better informed, more decided in
opinion and further advanced on the lead-
ing topics than any of the other delegates. 
They fairly outstripped the English wom-
en, who, however, were better informed
than the continental delegates in general
knowledge of the subjects pertaining to
women.
	“Mrs. Sewall won the congress from the
first. She has extraordinary tact in deal-
ing with such a large gathering of repre-
sentative women.
	“Miss Susan B. Anthony’s powerful ad-
vocacy of women’s claims distinctly added
to her already great reputation both at
home and abroad.
	“Regarding the results, the grand con-
summation has been reached of welding
together a cosmopolitan body of thoughtful
women, prepared to educate their fellow
women. Twenty-five years hence the
leaven of today will have leavened the
whole world, and the irresistible force of
public opinion will have raised women to
their proper sphere.”


[Column1]
28
Woman's Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher,

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah,
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months.
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office. Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m.  to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
	Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15, 1899.

[Column 2]
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


(Column 1)
CHARITY AND LABOR.
	The same sentiment or attribute so
divinely portrayed by the Apostle Paul in
his first Epistle to the Corinthians, 13th
chapter, which he calls Charity, Henry
Drummond, in his master lecture, “The
Greatest Thing in the World,” designates
as “Love.” That definition of Drum-
mond’s is singularly appropriate and ac-
ceptable; all the more so because an older
writer and greater prophet than he defines
the same thing, thus: “But charity is the
pure love of Christ and it endureth for-
ever.”—Book of Mormon, Moroni, 7th chap.
	The Great Father exercised this charity,
or love, toward His children in the begin-
ning of their career upon this earth, in a
very different way to that in which many
fond parents manifest what they under-
stand to be the most tender love for their
offspring, in these later times. This earth
was created for Adam and his generations
after him. And the Garden of Eden was
planned and planted for him and Eve to
make their home in. But their Father did
not say to them, “My son and my daugh-
ter, this beautiful home is for you to take
your ease and pleasure in, unburdened
with cares and labors, such as your mother
and I have borne in making it for you.”
Genesis 2nd chapter and 15th verse tells us
that “The Lord God took the man and put
him into the Garden of Eden, to dress it
and to keep it. ”
	God’s great love for His son Adam made
Him considerate of his welfare to the ex-
tent that He gave him work to do which
should claim his time and attention and
keep him from running after idlers and
mischief-makers who might be allowed to
find their way into his garden and seek to
decoy him from the path of duty. And
not only did Adam’s Father furnish him
with employment for his hands, but He
had also a tremendous amount of brain
work laid out for him as well. He was
expected to find names for all the beasts of
the fields and fowls of the air: business
enough to keep him actively engaged for
quite a length of time, we would think in
these days.
	But according to modern notions, al-
though Eve received the distinguished and
important appointment of help-mate to
Adam, yet upon her was placed no special
responsibility, except in the first great
commandment which charged the man and
his wife to be fruitful and multiply, and

(Column 2)
replenish the earth. Eve’s life in Eden,
previous to the step which led to the
banishment of herself and husband, has
been regarded in a light akin to the follow-
ing:

In the beautiful garden of Eden,
	Ere the fall of the woman and man, 
Eve must have had a good time—
	Imagine it once, if you can.

Birds in the tree-tops singing,
	Or soaring in balmy air,
Could not be freer than she was,
	From burdens of household care.

No dishes to wash after breakfast,
	No planning of what to have next,
For luncheon or dinner or supper,
	No man disappointed and vexed.

The most luscious fruits always ready,
	Adam would have but to say,
And Eve would have only to gather,
	Whatever they wanted that day.

No ironing, washing or mending, 
	The buttons all torn off and lost;
No household accounts to examine,
	With hopes of reducing the cost.

But, alas, how the tempter beguiled her,
	When he found her with nothing to do!
What a warning to all of her children,
	Reaching even to me and to you.

That too much of wealth and of leisure
	Are not the best things to receive,
Is shown by the record that's given
	To us of our great Mother Eve.

	That all honest industry is honorable, is
a truth too old and too obvious to require
argument. And yet to earn a living by
laborious industry seems to be as much
against the nature of people in general, be-
cause it is erroneously considered more re-
spectable to be able to live without work
than by it, as that it requires self-sacrifice
in some respects to devote time and energy
to industrial pursuits. But there are many
sides to this question of charity and labor.
	While there are those who would pre-
fer to live by the sweat of others’ brows
than their own, there are, on the other
hand, hard-working and generous-hearted
people, who would rather be over-taxed
themselves, for the sake of earning and
handling more money, even though they
divide their earnings with their poorer
neighbors, than to share their work with
them. This, is mistaken kindness, false
charity, and works injury to both parties
concerned. Would it not be far better if
the wise financiers, in our communities
would lend their energies and means to the
systematic arrangement of industries in
which all might find lucrative employment,
instead of the few building up themselves,
being over-worked because of their anxiety
to earn and save, even though they give
liberally of their substance to feed the poor?
Certainly it is better to teach children to
work and earn at least a portion of what
they need and want, than to give them all
they require, demanding nothing in return.
And the same rule will apply to men and
women as well as boys and girls.
	In our charitable institutions, therefore,
evidently the wisest thing to do would be
to create industries in which all who are
able to work might be happily employed,
being kindly encouraged to do their best to
earn their living. Instructions to this effect
were given by the great organizer of the
Relief Society among the Latter-day Saints,
the Prophet Joseph Smith, more than fifty
years ago.
	Great care and prudence would neces-
sarily have to be exercised in the distri-
bution of labor among the poor. A feeble,
delicate woman would not be expected to

(Column 3)
wash and scrub, as a strong, well one
might. But the former would perhaps be
able to braid straw, darn or patch light
material, and find relief in some such easy
work, which idleness could never bring.
And the strong one would probably sing
over her heavier tasks, taking satisfaction
in them which she would never discover in
lighter employment.
	How many there are around us who are
needing to have their work thus planned
out and arranged for them! And how
much happier and more prosperous the
world might be made if the wise managers
would generously and patiently give some
of their time and skill to the instruction of
others on these points; and if those who
are less gifted would be humbly teachable,
and strive to learn! God speed the time
when selfishness shall no longer exist,
when each shall love his neighbor as him-
self, when there shall be no poor, for all
shall be rich in the peaceful enjoyment of
true charity and satisfactory labor!
	L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


TO SISTER ELIZABETH STEVENSON.

“Leaves have their time to fall,
And flowers to wither at the north wind’s breath;
And stars to set—but all—
Thou hast all hours for thine own, oh death !”

	On Friday morning, June 30th, 1899, at
8 o’clock, as the sister workers of the Salt
Lake Temple entered their weekly meeting,
a great solemn hush of more than usual
significance came over them. Sisters Zina
D. H. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith and
Emma Woodruff, (the presidency of the
sisters in the Temple,) were there in their
accustomed places. And nearly all the
workers were present, but Sister Elizabeth
Stevenson was missing. The solemnity
which characterized the opening of the
meeting, and could scarcely be accounted
for in full, continued until its close, when
one announced that as she entered the
house the news had been given to her
that Charles Stevenson was dead! Then a
special prayer for Charlie’s motherwent up.
from that band of earnest, faithful workers
They prayed with loving fervor for every
comforting blessing to be bestowed upon
their bereaved sister, and dropped tears of
true sympathy which only those who have
themselves known sorrow could shed.
	Sister Elizabeth, if there can be any con-
solation in the knowledge that your sister
workers mourn with you the early loss of
your bright, gifted, noble boy, then be
thou comforted.

	“True until death! can more be said ?
	Unto all those who weepeth,
	May we not say of the ‘Blessed dead,’
	He is not dead, but sleepeth?’
	Sleepeth to waken, fair and young,
	When the song of the blest redeemed is sung.”
								    LULA.


WE gratefully acknowledge the gift of
some beautiful flowers from Mrs. Dow,
wife of the warden of the penitentiary.
They were very much appreciated and ad-
mired, and cast quite a cheerful influence
throughout our office.
	ABOUT 2,000 of our old people spent the
day at Capt. Dallin’s popular resort in Utah
Co., on Friday, July 7.  The R. G. W.
Railway Company furnished two fine cars
free of expense.  The resort was crowded
to its fullest capacity, and the time was
pleasantly spent in visiting, picnicing and a
short program of sports.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]		
		A WOMAN MISSIONARY.
   [Mrs.] Addison Pratt on the Society Islands,
1850.
			[Continued.]
	The 10th day of July. Roads unaccount-
able: up and down like the affairs of life. Met
traders with flour and groceries for the poor
emigrants. The men went out in search of
gold; found enough to buy some wine and
brandy to rejoice over the event of getting
safely over the last mountain. We shouted
glory hallelujah! Some of the crowd
thought as did the father of the prodigal
son: ‘‘It was meet that we should make
merry and rejoice.” They wanted a
Jubilee. 
	The 13th day. The horn sounded for
preaching; the people assembled, prayed
and sang hymns.
	Now we are fairly in the gold country—
a land of desolation, a barren desert. The
poor diggers look forlorn. Behold two
men I saw from the state of Illinois, from
the immediate vicinity of my brother, whom
I have not seen for many years! They
knew him, and could inform me of his
welfare. I have been truly homesick to-
day: May the Lord speed us on to our
place of destination. Oh, what a dismal
country ! No feed, no green thing grow-
ing—nothing but gold!
	The 16th day. Camped in an oak grove
near Brown’s, a fictitious name for Porter
Rockwell. Found a spring of clear, cold
water.
	The 17th day. Today arrived Brothers
Amasa Lyman and C. C. Rich, whom we
were most happy to meet. They brought
me a letter from my husband, dated April
24th, the same day he set sail at San Fran-
cisco for the Islands. The heat is almost
insupportable. Several old friends who
came to this country before us, today called
to see us. Men are reckless in this country;
there is great want of woman’s influence.
Filth and confusion throughout the whole
country. Sister Caroline Crosby and I
visited Brown’s and Steward’s. They
treated us kindly and made us presents.
They make money by selling liquors and
provisions to the emigrants. To be obliged
to see drunkenness and listen to profane
language to earn a livelihood, and that
without cessation, how can they endure it!
Preaching today by Brothers Rich and
Lyman. To see their faces and hear their
voices proclaiming the truth so far from
home, is comforting to the soul!
	The 23rd day. Camped six miles from
Sacramento. The public buildings are
made of cloth. Brother Crosby sold his
oxen and wagon for $225.00
	July 24th. One year ago today we at-
tended the great celebration in Salt Lake
Valley. Oh, we hope they will remember
us today, and drink us a toast[-] We are
camped on the north fork of the Sacramento
river; water clear and soft. The brethren
who went back to the mountains after ice
and snow for Stewart’s market, have just re-
turned tired, themselves and teams worn
out. The price has fallen from one dollar
to five cents per pound.
	The 25th. Came down to the great city
that has made such a noise in the world. A
great city it is, for the age of it, but so
filthy it is dangerous for people to stop
there.
	July 26th. Pitched our tents on the
bank of the Sacramento river, unloaded
our wagons and the men who had pur-
chased them took them away. I saw my

[Column  2]
faithful old carriage go, which for four years
had been a sleeping room for my children;
besides I had traveled in it two thousand
miles. It was the last piece of property
that remained of all the labors of my youth,
and that of my husband. I received only
thirty dollars for it, as it was badly worn.
The heat was intolerable. Not a tree to
shield us from the scorching sun. We
were preparing to go on board the bark
Alden, Capt. Alden, bound for San Fran-
cisco. Soon after we unloaded our goods
several gentlemen called, to welcome us
with acts of politeness. They brought in
a variety of refreshments, nice drinks and
pastry. It was thankfully received, weary
and worn as we were.
	A man from St. Louis called, who had
married a particular friend of ours in Nau-
voo. He informed us that his wife’s
mother had died of cholera at his residence
in St. Louis; that he had sent his wife with
two children to Nauvoo, hoping they might
escape that malignant disease.
	Joy and sorrow go hand in hand: we rejoice
to meet old friends, sorrow at parting. Our
traveling companions who were destined for
the mines called to bid us good bye. They
looked sad at the sight of the vessel we had
to embark in. The bark was large and
convenient, but oh, so dirty ! We went
on board, chose our berths, expecting to
have a good night’s rest. No sooner had
we laid our heads on our pillows than the
mosquitos commenced their ravages! Like
a mob of armed men they invaded our
quarters. We all abandoned the cabin and
fled on deck; but all in vain, we could not
elude their vigilance. Two-thirds larger
than insects of the common class, their bites
were like the sting of bees. I wrapped myself
in a thick blanket and sat in my chair. In
spite of all my efforts to cover myself they
pierced me till my feet and ankles became
swollen and inflamed. I wore bandages
wet in vinegar on my wrists, and went
without sleep till I was completely ex-
hausted. The wind was contrary, the
bark could not leave the harbor. The
children complained most bitterly! The
captain sent repeatedly to the town to get a
steamship to tow his vessel out, but ob-
tained nothing but promises. At length
Mr. Tompkins went to engage a steamer.
One came, but he was not with it. The
captain said he had come to take twenty
passengers off the bark. Mrs. Tompkins
inquired why her husband was not with
the steamer: The reply was, “He has
been left by mistake.” She gave credence
to the assertion and hurried us to remove
our goods immediately. My brother-in-
law would not comply, believing it a de-
ception. Eagerly seventeen rushed on to
the steamer, so frantic were we to escape fiom
the furious insects.
	We floated on with speed, found the boat
comfortable. Mrs. Tompkins was not at
all troubled about her husband. She was
certain he knew the way to San Francisco.
The first event on the boat was a long dis-
cussion with a gentleman on the doctrines
of the Mormon church. I preached to him
a Gospel sermon, bore my testimony to a
new dispensation, a renewal of all the gifts
and blessings. He seemed greatly sur-
prised. I left for his perusal a pamphlet
by Orson Pratt.
	We went to our staterooms with high
hopes of rest, but found we had only made
an exchange in the nature of our foes: the
latter having their habitation in the berths.
We struggled through the night, the morn-

[Column 3]
ing found us in the harbor. We made our
way to our friends’ homes, they received us
with great cordiality and made us welcome.
Mrs. Tompkins settled with the captain.
Four days after, Mr. Tompkins arrived. He
was highly offended because we had left
the bark in his absence. He assured us he
was there in four hours after we left with a
steamer to tow the boat into the bay, where
she could make her way alone. His wife’s
feelings were injured by the severity of his
remarks, and he was forced to make an
apology.
	The hearts of the brethren and sisters
who had landed there in ’46 from the old
ship Brooklyn, were open to receive us, to
supply our wants and prepare us for our
voyage across the seas. I found a Sister
Corwin, mother of Samuel Brannan’s wife,
an exceedingly kind-hearted woman, full of
faith and good works. She lived with her
daughter in a house like a king’s palace.
With Sister William Morey I felt much at
home. Shared largely of her benevolence. 
Brother John Lewis came with his carriage
and took us to Mission Dolores, three miles
from San Francisco. The old mission
house was built the year of  “Independence.’’
It resembles some old, ancient abbey,
which it is, built by the Catholics and
used for a nunnery. ’Tis of immense size,
long, dark alleys; with awe they strike the
mind. We spent two weeks there, were
kindly entertained. Numbers there were
in that branch of the Church who showed
us great kindness. A better class of citi-
zens never lived in San Francisco, a city
for money and business. A large fleet of
ships were lying in harbor; the sailors had
all deserted and gone to the mines; no
hands left to the management of the vessels.
They looked like a funeral procession.
There had been a terrible fire in the city a
few months before we arrived, but rapidly
have they made repairs.
	Ten days after Mr. Tompkins came in,
the bark arrived with the remainder of the
passengers. She had been baffling about
two weeks in the bay. Those of us who
had left her felt ourselves fortunate; but
when Mr. Tompkins complained that his
expenses had been too great, I felt it sorely!
Greatly did I regret that I had not means
of my own to go on an errand for the Lord.
What I do for the cause of Christ, I desire
to do at my own expense: and I pray for
means, that I may show my liberality and
willingness to do what is essential to be
done. Mrs. Tompkins never but once re-
ferred to what her husband had done for
my family, and then it was in a passion,
and I forgave her. She is good and true,
and her faith in the latter-day work is
strong.
	After a tarry of five weeks in San Fran-
cisco our passage was engaged to Tupuai,
on board the brig Jane A. Hersey, Capt.
Salmon. We set sail the 15th of Septem-
ber, in fulfillment of a dream my eldest
daughter had two years before, being the
precise time shown in the dream. Myself
and four daughters, my sister, her husband
and one son, two other families, six Elders,
in all twenty souls embarked.
	We found the captain a polite, well-bred gentleman; likewise Capt. Hall, who be-
longed on Tahiti, was returning as passen-
ger, a kind and agreeable man. Mr. Poole,
part owner in the vessel, was on board with
his wife, a sprightly young English lady of
seventeen, very intelligent and agreeable.
There were elements of good society, and
but for the intolerable seasickness we might


have had a delightful voyage. The com-
mon sailors were extremely obliging, striv-
ing to do little acts of kindness to attract
our attention. With the poor fellows a
kind word is appreciated. Our cabin was
large, built on purpose for our accommo-
dation. I had never supposed I should be
sick on the water, but on the contrary I was
the first one taken. I could not endure
the confined air in the cabin. In the morn-
ing my bed was made on deck for the day.
Not a mouthful could I eat except when
lying down. It seemed like raising the
dead to get out of my berth and dress my-
self, yet when I found my life depended
upon it, I could accomplish it by a power-
ful exertion. No dread to me was like that
of being buried in the sea. At times when
I felt like I could close my eyes and drop
out of existence, the thought that they
would bury me beneath the billowing
waves that dashed and foamed against the
bulwarks of the grand old brig, would in
an instant arouse me to a desperate exertion
to go on deck. And well did it happen for
me; my two eldest daughters are natural
sailors, only for a day or two did they com-
plain at all, could walk the deck when the
ship was reeling to and fro. Ellen was at-
tentive and faithful during the whole voy-
age of thirty-five days. Day after day I
lay on the deck, my bones aching, on my
hard bed, bewailing my sad fate, that I
must be forever traveling over the world
without my companion. Sometimes I was
able to read, which was a solace and com-
fort. My secret prayer was to be preserved
from a watery grave.
	When the cry of porpoise or skipjack was
heard, I would call for some one to lift me
up and let me cling to the bulwarks, that I
might feast my eyes on the wonders of the
mighty deep. At such times I would near-
ly forget my weakness. I wished continu-
ally for excitement. Seasickness, how hor-
rible! always dying, and yet you live! The
whole company were sick, no one felt like
praying and administering to his fellows. I
longed to hear prayers, and when at length
the Elders resolved to perform that duty,
and lay on hands to rebuke the disease, we
felt relieved and our hearts were comforted.
I had been severely tried because the
Elders did not officiate in religious duties
on board the vessel. They feared an ex-
citement, knowing the officers were infidel
in their views. The apology did not satis-
fy me. I kept silence, even from good
words, but it was pain and grief to me.
The captain knew we were missionaries.
There were some persons among us who
were disposed to carry tales from one to
another, a principle so detestable that any
lover of peace should spurn it as he would
a venomous serpent.
[To be continued.]


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


(Column 1)
R. S. REPORTS.
		RIGBY WARD.

	Minutes of the Rigby ward Relief Soci-
ety conference held April 27, 1899.
	The meeting was presided over by
Counselor Eleanor Homer. Commenced
by singing, “O, give me back my prophet
dear.” Prayer by Sister Fanny Cellers.
Continued by singing “We thank Thee,
O God, for a prophet.” Roll called and
minutes of the previous meeting read and
accepted.
	Sister Fanny Cellers said she was thank-
ful to meet with the Saints, felt the Spirit
of God was with us, gave good counsel and

(Column 2)
spoke comforting words to those who were
in trouble. Said it was the duty of every
member to sustain those who were placed
over them: not only by donations, but by
being present at meeting and attending our
duties, that we might always be found
faithful and be united as a band of sisters,
ever striving to go onward and upward,
that when we were through with this life
we could say, ‘‘I have fought the fight and
finished the work Thou hast set me to do.”
	Sister L. J. Barrows asked God to give
her strength to fight against all weaknesses
that flesh is heir to. Made some excellent
remarks on the training of children, and
spoke of the benefits our children would
receive if we would always set them a good
example; for by so doing we were laying
up treasures in heaven, “where neither
moth nor rust could corrupt.”
	Sister Allred related some of her past ex-
periences, and spoke comforting words to
our beloved president, who was bowed
down with grief through the death of her
lovely babe.
	President S. A. Cordon said if it were
not for her faith and hope in the Gospel her
troubles would be more than she could
bear. She knew if she were worthy she
would receive her child again, and that
was a great comfort to her.
	Sister Fanny Cellers sweetly and patheti-
cally sang “Afflicted Saints.”
	Sister Eleanor Homer offered up a prayer
for the special benefit of the bereaved sis-
ter. She afterwards gave some good instruc-
tions; suggested that the Relief Society set
two sisters apart to visit the Primary Asso-
ciation every two weeks. 
	S. F. Saxton bore her testimony, and de-
sired to be ever ready to help to roll the
work along.
	Meeting was adjourned for two weeks.
Singing, “The Spirit of God like a fire is
burning.” Benediction by Jerusha Allred.
				ELEANOR HOMER.

		BEAR LAKE STAKE.
	Minutes of the conference of the Relief
Society of Bear Lake Stake, held in the
Paris Tabernacle, Sunday June 11th, 1899.
	Meeting was called to order at 9:30 a. m.
by President Julia Lindsay. The choir
and congregation sang, “Our God we raise
to Thee.” Prayer by President William
Budge. Singing, “Softly beams the sacred
dawning.” Roll called: Stake officers
present, six; Society officers, ten.
	President Lindsay said that words failed
to express the gratitude of her heart on this
occasion when we are permitted to meet
under such favorable circumstances and
have with us Apostle Franklin D. Richards,
Sisters Jane S. Richards and F. S. Rich-
ards.
	Apostle Richards said: “The sisters
have requested me to occupy the time this
morning, which I will do cheerfully. I
shall have to leave your meeting before it
closes, in order to fill an appointment in
Salt Lake City tomorrow. My feelings
have been touched by the kindness which
has been shown us since we have been
here, and I rejoice greatly in mingling with
you. This glorious work was commenced
by the boy Joseph in 1820; he accomplished
a great deal from then until 1844. The
Saints will go to Jackson Co., when certain
things have been accomplished. When
the proper time comes, the Lord will open
the way before us.”
	The speaker then dwelt at length upon

(Column 3)
the law of tithing. Said the Saints were
plainly shown the necessity of its observ-
ance, and the blessings to be enjoyed by
those who are honest with the Lord. He
had seen its beginning, and had endeavored
to observe it from that day until the present,
and knew there was great satisfaction in so
doing. Everything we possess should be
tithed. Invoked heaven’s blessings upon
the Saints.
	Sister F. S. Richards had very much de-
sired that in Apostle Richards’ remarks he
would direct a few words to the sisters.
Said: “Though there are many of the
brethren who are willing to aid us, there
are none more willing to labor with and
encourage us than is he.” Spoke of the
great influence our sisters have among
ladies who do not belong to our Church.
We mothers and daughters should care
more for our bodies; we should have a
proper understanding of physical laws.
We should understand the training of chil-
dren, the most important work we have.
Emphasized the great necessity of young
ladies attending Relief Society meetings,
and thus be benefited by the experience of
our older sisters, and partake of the holy
influence we feel in mingling together.
	President Wm. Budge was exceedingly
pleased to hear the law of tithing discoursed
upon by Apostle Richards; the Saints need
awakening to its importance. One tenth
of all we possess belongs to the Lord, and
if we keep it we are robbing Him. Now
is a time for a more full development of
our spiritual nature. "May God bless and
help us to carry out that which we
know to be true; which I ask in Jesus
name."
	The choir sang "The song of the re-
deemed.” Benediction by President James
H. Hart.
	Afternoon session was called to order at
1:40 p. m. by President Lindsay. After
the usual devotional exercises the verbal
reports were given as follows:
	Paris 1st ward, President Jane Stucki;
Paris 2nd ward, President Ashley; Ovid,
President Jensen; Lanark, President Par-
ker; Liberty,Counselor Nora Austin.
	President Lindsay called for a report
from North Liberty; stated that the society
having just been organized there would be
nothing particular to report.
	Bern was reported by President Kunz;
Bennington, President Vanorman; Mont-
pelier, President Hoganson; Wardboro, 
Counselor Kutch; Dingle, President Sparks;
Thomas Fork, President Dalton; Bloom-
ington, President Patterson; St. Charles,
Secretary S. Young; Fish Haven, Counselor
Stock; six societies not reported.
	President Lindsay said it would be folly
for her to occupy the time when we have
with us the sisters who have come from a
distance to visit us, as we are all desirous
of hearing from them. “You are all aware 
of the death of our beloved sister and my
counselor, Elizabeth Collings, with whom
I labored without a jar for years. It is
necessary for me to have another counselor 
to assist me.”
	It was then moved, seconded and carried
that Sister L. M. Hart act as first counselor
in place of Sister Collings; also that Sister
Mary Bagley act as second counselor.
	Sister Jane S. Richards complimented
the sisters on their interesting and brief re-
ports; they were given in a businesslike
manner. We shall have much joy and
satisfaction in our old age if we are always 
kind to one another, and in every way pos-


sible try to lighten each others’ burdens.
Our prayers should be sincere, they should
come from the heart; they should not be
formal, but we should ask for that which
we really desire, as we would ask an earth-
ly parent. Related some of the trying
scenes through which she had passed in the
early settlement of Salt Lake valley, and
how the Lord had provided for her in times
of need. Exhorted us all to be kind to our
fellow beings, feed the hungry, visit and
comfort the afflicted, and not utter a
word that would wound the feelings of
another. Did not advocate programs as a
rule in our Relief Society meetings.
The speaker’s remarks throughout were
excellent, and no doubt will be the means
of many living purer and more charitable
lives.
Sister F. S. Richards said we should en-
courage one another, both our boys and our
girls. Do not wait until people are dead
before we speak well of them. Sister
Richards read a poem composed by Sister
Eliza R. Snow, “The Object of Relief
Societies.” Spoke at some length in an
intelligent manner upon the necessity of
being kind to the poor whoever they may
be.
President Lindsay hoped we might have
sufficient of the good spirit to enable us to
practice the good teachings we have heard
during our conference. Felt very thank-
ful to our sisters for their visit, to the choir
and all who have taken an interest in our
conference.
President James H. Hart expressed great
pleasure in having attended the conference.
We have enjoyed the influence of the
Holy Spirit.
The choir sang an anthem. Benediction
by Bishop Lewis.
N. H. ALLRED, Sec.

SALT LAKE STAKE.
The quarterly conference of the Salt
Lake Stake Relief Society convened in the
Assembly Hall, Saturday, June 3, 1899, at
10 a. m. Present on the stand were Presi-
dent M. I. Horne and Counselor Clara C.
Cannon, President Zina D. H. Young,
Sisters Bathsheba W. Smith, Maria Wilcox
and Maria Nebeker. 
Meeting was called to order by President 
M. I. Horne. Singing, “Arise, O glorious
Zion.” Prayer by Sister Maria Nebeker.
Singing, “O happy home! O blest abode!”
Roll called: twenty city wards and sixteen
country wards responding. Minutes of the
morning session of the previous conference
read and approved.
President M. I. Horne was sorry to see
so few present. It was required of us by
the authorities to meet and transact busi-
ness and instruct each other, and if we did
not do so we would be the losers. The
officers of the society should make an effort
to be present. The Lord will not excuse
us for carelessness and indifference. If we
as mothers set an example of faithfulness,
our children will be apt to follow that ex-
ample. Spoke briefly on the law of tith-
ing. Hoped the sisters would be faithful
to all the duties imposed upon them,
whether of a public or private, character.
Proposed that Sister Clarissa S. Williams
be sustained as assistant recording secre-
tary, which was unanimously carried.
Sister Horne then called for reports from
twenty-one of the city branches. Very in-
teresting and instructive reports were given
by the presidents or other representatives,

[Column 2]
showing an increase in membership and
general interest. The branches are in a
very prosperous condition considering the
financial depression in the city. All were
very much interested in the work, and
were anxious to do their duty to the fullest
extent.
Sister Horne made a few brief remarks of
encouragement, and expressed her satis-
faction in the reports given.
Meeting then adjourned until 2. p. m.
Singing, “Lord dismiss, us with Thy'bless-
ing.” Benediction by Sister Maria Wilcox.
Afternoon session: Meeting called to
order by President M. I. Horne. Singing,
“Come, come, ye Saints.” Prayer by
Sister Webb. Singing, “Now let us re-
joice.” Minutes of afternoon session of
last conference read and approved.
President Zina D. H. Young was the
first speaker. Said we have left all for the
Gospel’s sake, and we should be willing to
make personal sacrifices for the same. We
need to meet often and partake of the
beautiful spirit attending the meetings of
the Saints. Gave some very timely in-
structions to mothers, telling them they
should be strictly honest and truthful in all
their actions, as children are very quick to
notice and know what mothers do. Mother-
hood is a grand privilege, and we should
honor that sacred trust. Was thankful
that the days of using the rod were past;
it was so beautiful to rule by love. Said
that she had been in the Church sixty-
eight years, and had enjoyed her life in
trying to live up to the glorious principles
of the Gospel. We want to live so that we
can have the spirit of the Lord with us al-
ways.
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith said she de-
sired to be directed by the spirit of the
Lord in every action in life. Believed in
being true to her religion and her friends.
Thought if we loved our religion we
would be truthful and honest, prayerful
and upright. Spoke briefly on the law of
tithing. Said we should live within our
means, that now is the time to learn to
love each other. God is love, and if we
would be prospered and blessed, we must
lead and not drive. Believed that inas-
much as we strive for the blessings of the
Lord, He will bless us.
Professor C. J. Thomas, Sister Maggie
S. Hull and, Sister Maria B. Winder sang
“I know that my Redeemer lives.”
President M. Isabella Horne was the
next speaker. She said that good singing
was a very great source of blessing to us
and those who possess good voices should
feel very grateful. Urged the sisters to
attend their meetings, and spoke of the
good accomplished by attending the semi-
monthly meetings. Said our faith and
works go together, and we will be judged
by them, no matter what our professions.
Spoke of the law of tithing, quoting from
the third chapter of Malachi, and referred
the sisters to the revelation in the Doctrine
and Covenants for instruction on the sub-
ject. Spoke on the subject of storing
wheat: said if the societies did not own
granaries they should store flour in cans.
Sister Sarah Jane Cannon gave an inter-
esting account of a visit in company with
Sister Emma Woodruff, to the Sevier Stake
Relief Society. They found the sisters
energetic and fully alive to their duties.
Sister Clara C. Cannon advised the sis-
ters to read the revelations of the Lord, and
be posted as to the requirements made of

[Column 3]
us as Latter-day Saints. Spoke impres-
sively of the fact that President Snow had
received a revelation in regard to the law of
tithing. Said we should teach our chil-
dren this principle it is a blessing for us to
obey it; it is to test us, bless us and
strengthen us. If we obey it, we are the
gainers.
Sister Pixton, of Taylorsville, was hap-
py to be present. Said we had had good
instructions, why do we not obey them and
put them in practice? “Let us do so; let us
keep out of debt, do right and serve the
Lord with all our might, mind and strength.
Be honest in paying tithing and in every
duty in life.” She thanked the Lord for
every blessing she enjoyed. Said we
should teach our children to honor their
parents, so that their days may be long.
Sister Mary Freeze bore testimony of the
truth of the Gospel, and said she knew for
herself that the Lord had spoken to Presi-
dent Snow concerning the law of tithing.
Hoped to be one of those worthy to help
build up Jackson County.
Sister Mary Hyde was glad to be present,
was always glad to hear the name of the
Prophet Joseph Smith mentioned. She 
knew he was a true prophet of God, and re-
joiced that we have prophets now to speak
to us and tell us the will of the Lord.
By request Sister Maggie S. Hull sang
“The Beautiful City.”
Sister Clarissa S. Williams was glad to
be present. Thought the instructions re-
ceived from the sisters of great benefit if
we would only seek to carry them out.
Thought the labors of the Relief Society a
great and noble work.
A vote of thanks was heartily given
Brother Thomas and Sisters Hull and
Winder for the beautiful music they had
furnished during the meeting.
The Relief Society presidents were re-
quested to see that reports were sent to
Secretary Augusta W. Grant, No. 14 South,
2nd East St., by the 15th of July. Meeting
was then adjourned to meet the first Satur-
day in September.
After singing the Doxology, President
Horne dismissed the meeting in tongues.
The interpretation was given by Sister 
Paul.

AUGUSTA W. GRANT, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.
	MYRA CLAYTON WINTER.
	It is with feelings of sorrow that we record the
death of Sister Myra Clayton Winter, which oc-
curred at Georgetown, Idaho, June 22, 1899.
	Deceased was born in Mansfield, Nottingham-
shire, England, November 3, 1822. She em-
braced the Gospel at an early age, and emigrated
to Salt Lake City with her sister Sarah, in the fall
of 1853. In July of the following year she be-
came the wife of Thomas W. Winter, then Bishop
of the 5th ward. She became the president of
the first Primary Association organized in that ward,
which position she faithfully filled until her duties
as a nurse compelled her to resign.
	Since the death of her husband in 1882, she has
spent most of her time with her children in Rex-
burg and Georgetown, Idaho.
	Sister Winter was a very kind and loving
mother and a true friend, and her death will be
mourned by all who knew her. She was the
mother of six children, four of whom are still liv-
ing: Bishop T. J. Winter and Mrs. Sarah Rands,
of Rexburg, and Harriet Smith and Celena
Leveridge, of Georgetown.
	Sister Winter was buried, according to her re-
quest, at the place of her death. She died as she 
had lived, in full faith of the Gospel, and in the
hope of a glorious resurrection.
	COM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		LET US HAVE PEACE

	(An address delivered by Mrs. Josie E.
Childs at the recent peace meeting at Orange-
ville.)

	Being chosen to address this large assem-
bly on a subject of vital importance to us
all, I respond with hesitancy, fearing my
inability to handle this great subject with
the intelligence that is due.
	If we look upon the world today as one
great Brotherhood, our hearts will readily
go out to all for their peace and happiness.
And I hope for the success of every nation.
	There is in the heart of every soul a love
for his native land. No melody is so sweet
to him as a national air; no music that can
stir the inner heart with greater depths; no
song that makes the wanderer’s thought
revert homeward as effectually as a song of
his own dear native land! And this is
right, and that right should be respected by
all, except when it infringes upon the
rights of others; then it ceases to be a right.
	It is a hereditary tradition matured in the
breast of man, to support and sustain his
motherland. It is a natural thing for in-
dividuals, neighbors, communities, states
or nations to differ in opinions; to aspire to
greatness above their fellows; to become
jealous of the capabilities that are apparent,
and contention, discord and strife are en-
gendered within their hearts, and enmity is
the result. When this state of affairs is
reached, it only requires a little thing to
fan into flame the burning fire of action.
And that action means, when implied to
nations, war. Nothing brings to the
heart of a patriot the spirit of revenge
quicker than an insult to his country, and
that revenge calls for bloodshed. This is
the great effect of the traditional education
that has been matured in the hearts of men
since time immemorial.
	Today not only our beloved nation, but
the entire world is in a great commotion.
War and rumor of war is extant all over
the surface of the earth; and in the words
of the great prophet: "Peace has been
taken from the earth."
	Fear has taken the place of content.
Men are called from their vocations of life
to fill the ranks in the great battles that are
pending. No more you hear from the
shop of the smith the clang of the ham-
mer in his great brawny hands on the 
heated steel at the forge, accompanied by
his mirthful song. No more the happy
farmer sings all care away, as he gently
turns the soil in preparation for the seed,
and dreams a dream of contentment in the
anticipation of a bounteous harvest of 
"golden grain," weaving the while a
pleasant thought of his loved wife and
little ones, and their wants being abundant-
ly supplied. No more the wife sings
about her work preparing the frugal meal
for her dear ones. All is changed!
	The smith's hammer lies where it fell,
when he hastened to his country's call. The 
shop is empty, he has gone. The husband,
father and son, have gone to defend their
country's honor. The song of gladness is
hushed on the lips of the once happy wife
and mother. A look of anguish and des-
pair has settled upon her face, as her gaze
follows the retreating forms of her dear
ones, whom she may never see again. And,
with her little ones, kneeling before the
Great Father who will never desert her,
she petitions Him for the safety of her
loved ones, her husband, her sons, and in

[Column 2]
her heart of hearts, sues and pleads for
peace.
	The misery and distress of war are terrible!
Want follows in its wake, and today thou-
sands are suffering the pangs of hunger—
literally starving for food that cannot be
had. Many hearts are torn with anguish
at the death of their loved ones! Many
homes are blighted; and even those fortun-
ate enough to return, through fatigue and
exposure are maimed perhaps to such an
extent they will never be able to go back to
their old occupations. And perhaps, through
the life-long suffering before them, they
will regret that they were permitted to live
at all!
	Oh, my friends, this is not a picture
drawn from the imagination, that will per-
ish through the lapse of days! There are
many poor men and boys, living and dead,
that stand as a monument of the distressing
reality of war!
	Looking at the world as it stands today,
should we not with one accord plead for
peace? Should we not seek a better way
to adjust our wrongs? Should we not
petition the law-makers of every country
to devise means that wrongs may be righted
without war? Should we not pray the
Great Ruler that He will touch the
hearts of the law-makers of the earth, and
reveal to them a more perfect system of
righting wrongs, that peace may be re-
stored to the earth again? May our efforts
accrue to bettering the conditions that exist!
	Christ said: “A good man out of the
good treasures of his heart brings forth
that which is good.” May we hope that
we all are sufficiently good that a blessing
for good may follow this move; that peace
may be restored; that the earth will yield in
its strength; that want and misery may
be banished, and prosperity take its place.


AMERICAN WOMEN TAKE TEA
		WITH THE QUEEN.
	A number of the American, colonial and
continental guests of the International Con-
gress of Women having expressed desires
to pay their respects to the queen, Lady
Aberdeen arranged a trip to Windsor on
the afternoon of July 7th, when her majesty
assented to the suggestions that she should
drive slowly through the quadrangle of the
castle and receive a few of the more prom-
inent delegates. It was about twenty
minutes past five when the delegates took
up a position in front of the private en-
trance. A quarter of an hour later her
majesty appeared and Lady Aberdeen made
the presentations.
	Miss Susan B. Anthony, who, with Mrs.
May Wright Sewall, the newly elected
president of the congress, enjoyed the priv-
ilege of presentation, said to the cor-
respondent of the Associated Press after-
wards: ‘‘I had never seen the queen be-
fore, and could not but feel a thrill when,
looking into her wonderful face, I saw her,
as her life is going out, welcoming this
woman’s movement which is the precursor
of the twentieth century. What pleased
me most was when her majesty said: ‘Now,
cannot have the ladies who are visiting
me return without giving them a cup of
tea.’
	“Sir Arthur Briggs, the queen’s private
secretary, replied: ‘But, your majesty, they
are here in hundreds. ’
	“ ‘I don’t care,’ said the queen, ‘if they
are in thousands, they must all have a cup


of tea when they come to see me.’ And
we had it in the queen’s palace as a recog-
nition of the great womanhood of our
country." 
	Mrs. Sewall said: “The queen looked
ten years younger than when I saw her 
three years ago. The whole bearing of
her majesty was a symbol that she, who
has governed the mightiest of empires for
sixty-three years, has finally recognized
intuitively that she crowns her work in
recognizing the claims of her sex to equal
rights with men.”


Save Your Money!

	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.

		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
	
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			
			Lorenzo Snow, Prest.
			George M. Cannon, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
		SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House,
R.K.THOMAS
GARFIELD BEACH
POPULAR
BATHING
RES0RT
OPEN JUNE 22.

Boating, Bathing, Dancing.

TRAIN SERVICE:
[Column 1]
LEAVE 
SALT LAKE. 
10 30 a.m
2:15 p.m.
4:30 p.m.
6:15 p.m.
[Column 2]
LEAVE 
GARFIELD.
1:00 p.m.
5:30 p.m.
7:30 p.m.
10:00p.m.
RoundTrip 25c.

Depot Cor. First South and Fourth West.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 28. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1, 1899. No. 5.


CONTENTS.

An Internatinoal Gathering					33.
Women in Literature						34.
Notes from Idaho				Annie Bird 34.
A Passing Thought				Judex Judicii	34.
Mrs. Bedford Fenwick						35.
Reception at Stafford House					35.
A Woman Missionary		Mrs. Addison Pratt 36.
A Visit Through Oneida Stake 	D. E. Dudley 38.
R. S. Reports—San Luis 	Mary F. Crowther 39.
	St. Joseph				Sarah Webb 39.
Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting	J. S. Woolley 40.

EDITORIAL:—Abroad in London			36.
Congratulations							36.

POETRY:—The Message of Peace
						Julia Ward Howe 33.
	Sister Elizabeth Stevenson	Ellis R. Shipp 35.
	When I Have Time				Selected	35.


THE MESSAGE OF PEACE.
Bid the din of battle cease !
	Folded be the wings of fire !
Let your courage conquer peace,—
	Every gentle heart’s desire.

Let the crimson flood retreat !
	Blended in the arc of love
Let the flags of nations meet;
	Bind the raven, loose the dove!

At the altar that we raise
	King and kaiser may bow down;
Warrior-knights above their bays
	Wear the sacred olive crown. 

Blinding passion is subdued;
	Men discern their common birth. 
God hath made of kindred blood
	All the peoples of the earth. 

High and holy are the gifts 
	He has lavished on the race,— 
Hope that quickens, prayer that lifts,
	Honor’s meed and beauty’s grace.

As in heaven’s bright face we look
	Let our kindling souls expand; 
Let us pledge, on Nature’s book,
	Heart to heart and hand to hand.

For the glory that we saw
	In the battle-flag unfurled,
Let us read Christ’s better law: 
	Fellowship for all the world.
		Julia Ward Howe in S. S. Times.


[Column 1]
	AN INTERNATIONAL GATHERING.
	OPENING MEETING AT THE CHURCH
		HOUSE.
	The great International Council of Wom-
en opened its sittings June 26th. No such
gathering of women has ever been held be-
fore. The female sex of the whole world
was represented by delegates who came
from the ends of the earth to be present.
What the Council is and what it is going to
try to do has already been set forth in great
detail in these columns, and it is therefore
needless to go into the matter again.
	Westminster Town Hall was too small
for the assembly of all the delegates in one
place, so a move was made to the Church
House, in the great hall of which Lady
Aberdeen, the president of the Council,
took the chair at its opening session, and
delivered her presidential address. Long
before the opening hour of half-past two
the hall was filled both in floor and galler-
ies. The scene was strikingly picturesque.
There were a few men present, scattered
here and there about the meeting; but all

[Column 2]
the ladies had come in bright toilettes, and
the hall looked a moving mass of color. In
the end gallery were two Salvation Army
lasses, in red jerseys and poke bonnets; a
group of ladies from India sat in the side
seats, in native costumes of soft muslin and
heavy gold bangles and earrings. On the
platform was a lady from China in full
native dress. She wore a bright scarlet
petticoat, over which was a loose deep
blouse of ruby silk. The sleeves of this
had deep cuffs of bright blue, on which was
worked some exquisite gold embroidery.
Behind her sat her Chinese interpreter.
		THE DELEGATES.
	On the platform were gathered all the
presidents, vice-presidents and accredited
delegates from the various countries. Mrs.
May Wright Sewall, vice-president; Baron-
ess Alexandria Gripenberg, of Finland,
treasurer, and Miss Theresa Wilson, secre-
tary of the Council, were on the right and
left of Lady Aberdeen. The other dele-
gates on the platform were Mrs. F. H.
Gaffney and Miss Susan B. Anthony, U.
S. A.; Mrs. Bloomer, Mrs. Willoughby
Cummings and Mrs. Gibbs, Canada; Frau
Bieber Boehm, Germany; Fru Hierta Ret-
zius, Sweden; Lady Battersea and Mrs.
Creighton, Lady Hampden, New South
Wales; Fröken Henrie Forschammer, Den-
mark; Madame Klerck Von Hogendorp,
Holland; Lady Hamilton and Mrs. Henry
Dobson, Tasmania; Madame Bogelot and
Madame Oddo Deflon, France; Mrs. Flora
Annie Steel and Miss Mary Bhor, India;
Mrs. Neilson Hamilton, Persia; Dr. Cecilia
Grierson, the Argentine Republic; Madame
Shen, China, and Madame von Finkelstein
Mountford, Palestine. Delegates were also
present from Switzerland, Belgium, Italy,
Russia, Austria, Norway, Victoria, South
Australia, West Australia, Queensland,
Cape Colony and Iceland. The list of
women well known in public life in this
country who were scattered about the hall
would fill a column.
		THE SERVICE OF HUMANITY.
	Lady Aberdeen was greeted with cheers
from all pa[-]ts of the hall as she gave to all
the delegates a personal welcome, and ex-
pressed the hope that during their stay in
London they would feel themselves at
home. She went on to tell her hearers
that the movement was taking shape
differently according to the genius and
spirit of each people. This, she said, was
what they desired, so that their councils
should be truly national in character.
	“It will be asked, ‘How in the world
can such a conglomeration of associations
existing in so many different countries and
formed for so many various objects, some
actually opposed to one another, and com-
prising hundreds of thousands of women
of different religions, different races and up-
bringing, have an intelligible purpose, and
work together for a practical end?’ And
yet we claim that in the very varieties of
opinions and ideas and methods of work
which exists among us lies our raison d'etre,
the centre and kernel of our being. For

[Column 3]
the unity which it is our aim to seek after
does not lie in identity of organization or
identity of dogma, but in a common conse-
cration to the service of Humanity, in the
spirit of that Love which we hail as the
greatest thing in the world.
	“This may appear to some pure idealism,
and idealism of a nature unlikely to be of
any practical value. This is not, however,
our view or experience. True, it precludes
us from organizing ourselves in favor of
any one propaganda at the cost of another—
the founders of the Council who formulated
our constitution wisely foresaw that if we
identified ourselves with any movement of
a controversial character, we should sacrifice
forthwith the very essence of the council
idea, which is to provide a common centre
for women workers of every race, faith,
class and party, who are associating them-
selves together in the endeavor to leave the
world better and more beautiful than they
have found it.”
		THE WOMAN’S AGE.
	Lady Aberdeen reminded the Congress
that though it was a women’s congress
they had a number of men working with
them. The present age, she said, had been
called the “Woman’s Age:’’ indeed the
past fifty years had produced a revolution
in the position, the responsibilities and op-
portunities of women. This had led to the
formation of associations and unions of
women for mutual help; for when woman
found her life expanding so fast in every
direction she had to endeavor to fit herself
for the new conditions. Younger women
had no idea of the responsibility which had
rested upon those who had gone before.
	“The pioneer women who first broke
down the barriers which had been closed so
firmly against the participation of our
mothers in higher education or in any pub-
lic duties whatsoever, had but barely fin-
ished their task, and the road was as yet
rough and new, but yet the call seemed an
imperative one to go forward and take up
duties which appeared sacred and pressing,
and at the same time to show that this
could be done without sacrifice of our
womanliness.”
	The banding of women together, went
on Lady Aberdeen, should not be allowed
to crystallize into a permanent element in
social life. Man was not meant to live
alone—but still less was woman. It
might be well to have a union of mothers,
but do the fathers count for so little in
the home that their counsel is not needed [-]
	"There are many earnest workers in the
present day who are watching with anx-
iety the effect on the home life of the coun-
try of the numberless societies which have
grown up of late years and which, though ad-
mirable in themselves, create so many mani-
fold interests that they may tend to separate
husbands and wives, parents and children,
brothers and sisters, from the natural in-
fluences which each ought to exercise over
one another, and thus neutralize home life.”
	It was often taken for granted, concluded
Lady Aberdeen, that a congress of women
would occupy itself in devising plans where-


by women might be emancipated from the
cares and duties of home. That was not
the ideal of their progress. They held, she
said, amid loud cheering, that the wom-
an’s first mission must be her home, and
by it she would ever be judged. The
dream of all was a better country, which
meant, in other words, a land of better,
happier, truer and holier homes.

	INTERNATIONAL GREETINGS.

	Then came a long series of speeches from
the delegates. Mrs. May Wright Sewall
gave a bright account of the rise of the
movement which began to take shape at
the Chicago congress of women. Mrs.
Sewall put in a plea for tolerance and for-
bearance. Baroness Gripenberg, who
spoke (as indeed all the foreign delegates
did, with the exception of Madame Deflon
and Madame Shen) in very good English,
referred to the present state of her country
(Finland) and to the “local difficulties”
which were in the way. Miss Susan B.
Anthony spoke of the States, and Mrs.
Boomer for Canada. Lady Battersea and
Lady Hampden followed, the latter saying
that women led the movement for the federa-
tion of the Australian colonies. An interpre-
ter from the Chinese Embassy said that
Madame Shen was sent to the conference
by special orders from the Emperor. He
controverted the usual opinion that women
in China were not good for anything.
That was an entirely erroneous impression, 
he said, amid laughter.
	Among the other speeches was an ani-
mated one from Madame Finkelstein 
Mountford, who, to show her cosmopolitan
claims, said she was a Russian born in
Turkey and married to an Englishman.
		 —Daily Chronicle.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		WOMEN IN LITERATURE.
	An interesting feature of the Internation-
al Congress of Women has been the large
number of new recruits drawn from the
ranks of society.
	At St. Martin’s Town Hall on June 28,
where the subject of “Women in Liter-
ature’’ was under discussion, Lady Helen
Graham and Lady Cynthia Vincent were
cordially welcomed by members of the Con-
gress. The topic under discussion was
evidently an attractive one to a large num-
ber of delegates, as the room was well filled,
and the remarks of the various speakers
were followed with much interest.
	Mrs. Flora Annie Steele was the first to
speak on the subject. She carried a bunch
of roses that matched the chiffon bow at her
throat and the flowers in her neat round
hat. The novelist’s regret was that the
time limit would only allow of the most
primary interpretation of the subject.
Nevertheless, she made good use of the
twenty minutes allotted to her. Women
in literature, she said, was a subject which
took one back to the beginning of all 
things, and she hazarded the opinion that if
Eve had not bartered her paradise of purity
for a paradise of love, three-quarters of the
literature of the world would never have
been written.
	This novel assertion tickled the audience
immensely, and Mrs. Steele amused them
still further by declaring that it was a woman
probably who was the author of the first 
document. She most likely cut the first
notch in a stick as an aid to memory in the

[Column 2]
arduous round of domestic duties, which
was the beginning of all books.
	Passing from the lighter vein and treat-
ing her subject seriously, the speaker con-
tended that women maintained a high
average of literary merit, and that literature
was undoubtedly a successful field for wom-
en to cultivate, their great strength lying
in their feminine outlook.
	There were other papers and other speak-
ers, but the honors of the sitting rested
with Mrs. Steele, whose address was unani-
mously voted to be a masterly treatment of
the subject.
	As on the opening day, the different sec-
tions were again well patronized on June
28, thus showing that the interest in the
Congress is well sustained. Another sec-
tion which attracted a large attendance was
that which discussed rescue work. It was
under the presidency of Mrs. Benson, wid-
ow of the late archbishop, and was held in
the Convocation Hall at the Church House.
	Lady Frederick Cavendish, in a very
earnest, but at the same time amusing ad-
dress, spoke of the work of the Church
Army among women, and explained some-
thing of the character of the class dealt
with. By way of illustration, her ladyship
quoted the case of a girl of sixteen who had
knocked her sister down. When spoken to
about it the girl’s answer was that she
“only happened to flap up against her sis-
ter, and didn’t mean nothing.”
	There was quite a number of interesting
speeches on this subject by delegates from
different countries, and it was evident that
the audience were in cordial sympathy with
movements having for their object the
rescue of the fallen.
	Another striking paper was that deliv-
ered in the Art Section by Mme. Starr Can-
zi[-]ni on the spirit of purity in art. “I do
not underrate cleverness,” she said, “when
cleverness means real power. But what
matters power and style,if the motive of the
work be unworthy or irreverent? One
thing is certain,” she declared, “though
the greater responsibility must always rest
with men who are stronger, yet neither
good nor evil can exist in the world with-
out the consent of women.”
	An attractive feature,so far,at the section-
al meetings has been the floral decorations.
The rooms have been tastefully adorned
with roses and other flowers, and the effect
has been very pretty. In this respect
Lady Battersea has been a generous con-
tributor, and Mrs. Reggie Bingham and
many other ladies have responded to the
appeal made to them, while there have
been many willing hands ready to arrange
the floral gifts to the best possible advan-
tage.
	There were two receptions on June 28th
after the work of the day was done. One
was held by Mrs. F. Beer at 7 Chesterfield
gardens, and the other was at Lady Batter-
sea’s house at Marble Arch. It was so
arranged that they did not clash as regards
time, and there was a large gathering at
each.
	Lady Battersea’s reception Tuesday eve-
ning for the delegates of the Women’s Con-
gress was numerously attended.
	The house was prettily decorated with
palms and pink and white flowers, with
large bowls of roses placed about in the
different reception rooms. Lord and Lady
Battersea received their guests at the head
of the staircase, Lady Battersea looking
handsome in gray and white brocade, with

[Column 3]
emerald and diamond stars in her hair and
on the corsage of her dress.
	Some of the pretty women present were
the Duchess of Sutherland, in pale blue
satin and pearls; Lady Randolph Church-
ill, in pale pink with some pearl orna-
ments in her hair; while Lady Ulrica Dun-
comb was looking quite lovely in pale yel-
low, with a necklace of pearls and dia-
monds. Among others there were Lady
Aberdeen, Lady Harcourt and Mrs. As-
quith.—Ex.


NOTES FROM IDAHO.

Editor Woman's Exponent:
	Thinking a little sketch of our society
yould be interesting to the readers of the
EXPONENT, we forward the following:
	This branch of the Relief Society was or-
ganized August 7, 1898. There are ten
wards in the Stake, each having a branch
of the society. We have visited every
branch twice and held two conferences and
will hold another on the 21st of August.
In making the circuit of the Stake we have
to travel about two hundred miles. We
were received and treated well by the peo-
ple, and found the society in good condi-
tion, considering the scattered condition of
the people.
	Dr. E. R. Shipp is here in Pocatello,
teaching a class in obstetrics and nursing.
Eight from this Stake are in attendance.
	Ever praying for the success of the Re-
lief Society work, I remain,
	Your sister in the Gospel,
	ANNIE BIRD, Cor. Sec.


A PASSING THOUGHT. 
	The poor, the miserable, the vicious, the
depraved can never be reached except by
the spirit of sympathy. Benefits scorn-
fully flung to them, as we would scarcely
fling a bone to a dog, will neither improve
their love nor touch their hearts. No deep
abiding good will be wrought by those who
abandon the stimulus of hope. Socially
there must be a far greater awakenment to
the sense of duty.
	At present the few are magnificently
liberal, the many are shamefully unchari-
table. It has become a question of the day
chat the rich should more and more feel the
guilt of a selfish luxury, unaccompanied by
either public munificence or private gener-
osity. Bet them let all, look well to it that
they have no share in the interests of
crime no investments in gains derived from
the causes of human misery. If each one
swept thoroughly before his own door, the
streets would be clean. There is a judg-
ment.
	JUDEX JUDICII.


THE publication of “Nicholas Nickleby”
freed England from the low class of private
schools, assured a wide-spread interest in
national education and the better training
of teachers, and helped to reveal the funda-
mental principle of true discipline in home
or school, that all coercion is dwarfing in
its effect on character-growth. There are
many teachers and parents who still need to
learn that even the most refined methods of
coercion cripple the individuality of the
child and prevent the development of its
true selfhood, the divinity of its nature.
For them “Nicholas Nickleby” is one of
the best of all books. They should read it
once a year.—The Century.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SISTER ELIZABETH STEVENSON.
While sympathizing friends and loving kindred
	dear
With clasping hand, tones subdued, and gently
	falling tear—
Draw so near to thee, with tenderest helpfulness,
In deep affliction’s hour, thy soul to cheer and
	bless—
I, thy loving friend, so many miles away,
Can only look above, and for thy comfort pray.

O, blessed, holy bonds of love and faith divine!
That draw us ever near that high and sacred
	shrine,
E’en while to mortal life we ever fondly cling,
This constant faith subdues its bitterness and
	sting.
Our burdens at His feet, our trust with Him
	above,
While aching hearts receive His blessing and His
	love.

Beloved friend, through many changing years,
Together we have known this precious hope that
	cheers;
That heavenly inspiration, which ever beams so
	bright
Shall now descend upon you, to cheer you with its
	light,
To bless as thou hast blessed, the sorrowing and
	bereaved,
Till with implicit faith, the victory is achieved.
						ELLIS R. SHIPP.


WHEN I HAVE TIME.
When I have time, so many things I’ll do,
To make life happier and more fair
For those whose lives are crowded now with care;
I'll help to lift them from their low despair,
			When I have time.

When I have time, the friend I love so well
Shall know no more those weary, toiling days;
I'll lead her feet in pleasant paths always
And cheer her heart with words of sweetest praise,
			When I have time.

When you have time? The friend you hold so dear
May be beyond the reach of all your sweet intent—
May never know that you so kindly meant
To fill her life with sweet content,
			When you had time.

Now is the time! Ah, friend, no longer wait
To scatter loving smiles and words of cheer
To those around whose lives are now so drear,
The may not need you in the far-off year—
			Now is the time!
					Canadian War Cry.


[Column 1]
MRS. BEDFORD FENWICK.
	Discussion: “The effect upon Domestic
Life of the Entry of Women to the Profes-
sions.” Mrs. Bedford Fenwick:
	“The first question which it appears to me
is raised by Mrs. Fenwick Miller’s admir-
able paper is: ‘Does the wife who is en-
gaged in professional work make for the
good of the home? And, in consequence,
is she, or is she not, of benefit to the
nation?’ Mrs. Miller seems inclined to
answer the question in the affirmative, and
in this view I would cordially agree, al-
though; at the same time, it must be gener-
ally realized that outside professional work
is somewhat inconsistent with the old-
fashioned idea of the domestic life of the
housewife. It must be regarded as un-
questionable that the professional wife can-
not serve two masters. If she attempts to
perform so impossible a task she will fail in
her duty to both. However well cultured
her brain, however well trained her facul-
ities may be, the average woman cannot be
at once the successful professional worker,
and the mother and home-maker. No
one should attempt to combine such di-
verse functions. To succeed in any pro-
fession in these days of keen competition
means unremitting toil, early and late, and
the employment of every power of brain
and body which one may possess. Under

[Column 2]
these circumstances, the professional wife
must depute the majority of her domestic
duties to others, and as a matter of justice
to her husband, this fact should be clearly
understood before marriage, so that the com-
pact should be a fair one. Marriage is a
contract, and should carry with it a sense
of mutual obligation; but too often the ‘re-
ciprocity has been all on one side.’ The
man has governed, the woman served, and,
in the large majority of marriages, both
parties have enjoyed this well defined posi-
tion. But it is the fact that women enjoy
their servitude that is the chief difficulty in
raising the ideal of marriage in the public
mind.
	“But we are forced to realize that the
woman, however highly cultivated and
trained, is constituted by nature a creature
of infinitely more delicate nervous organi-
zation than a man, and that it is impossible
for her to bear the nerve-strain of house-
wife and breadwinner. Such a strain
would speedily spell nervous exhaustion,
and inevitable misery in domestic life. As
have said, no man would attempt to do
so much, and it must not be expected from
any woman. Let us own at once that wife-
hood and motherhood are recognized as
privileges, duties and joys by the average
woman. To be just to our daughters, let
them be taught from their youth up all the
dainty arts, and some of the crafts, which
go to make good mothers and worthy
wives.
	“Each girl should be afforded opportun-
ities equal to those given to her brothers,
and by skilled teaching, be enabled to earn
her bread in that branch of labor for which
she shows inclination. Should she ever be
thrown upon her own resources, she will
then be safe and independent. Such a
trained and skilled worker may, or may
not, elect to marry, but should it seem
good to her so to do, she will, at least, be
well equipped to aid her husband by her
earnings, or not, as circumstances may re-
quire. It is by the realization that Duty is
the great law of life, that humanity will pass
through the stages of evolution and attain
the highest sphere of being.
	“The effect upon the home life of indi-
viduals, and, in consequence, upon the
national life, of whether a woman is em-
ployed after marriage in domestic arts, in
professional duties or in public work, will
depend largely upon the circumstances of
her environment, upon the spirit in which
she performs her duty. It may be her
duty to give up, after marriage, the special
work by which she has earned an honorable
livelihood, or it may be her duty to con-
tinue it. Duty must determine the result
in every case. The ultimate effect upon
domestic life will be the result of the man-
ner in which each woman faces and per-
forms her individual duty in the body
politic. On any other basis, domestic life
has always been, and always will be, a
failure. Every day we see the increase of
toleration in the public mind, on what is
known as the ‘woman question,’ and the
domestic relations of the sexes are only one
phase of the development of this question.
	“How far the marriage relations can stand
the strain of economic equality—no other
equality is of any value—remains to be
seen; and whether the average woman will
shoulder the responsibility, which the
claim for equality will necessitate, remains
also to be seen. I am inclined to think the
average woman will not do so. The bril-
liant exception we can safely leave to her

[Column 3]
own devices—only I would say to mere
man, ‘Don’t marry her.’ Too many
martyrs have already been sacrificed on the
altar of Genius, and the average women
have need of her. The exceptional woman
is instinct with irrepressible devotion to
some Cause, with a big C, which it is her
duty to further, irrespective of every indi-
vidual consideration. With Mrs. Fenwick
Miller I am loath to deprive the nation of
the motherhood of the intellectual woman.
The selection of the fittest as propagator of
the species in the animal and vegetable
kingdoms, is the aim of the agricultural
and horticultural breeder. Why not also of
the humanitarian? But it is the physical,
the pure blood strain, the perfection of
form and coloring, which is considered in
the development towards perfection in those
kingdoms. And intellectual force is a
strangely elusive quality: science has not
yet demonstrated that it is possible to propa-
gate it through prearranged physical unions
—rather we have come to speak of indi-
vidual talents as ‘gifts,’ and we have not
yet attained to the scientific knowledge by
which we may ‘breed’ the great artist or
law-giver. In conserving the purity of the
human physical forces we may add one
quota to the higher development of the
human race—beyond, we must be grateful
for the ‘gifts’ the gods give us. They
have given the average woman a keen
sense of duty and love of home. I think
we may trust her not to sacrifice the sub-
stance for the shadow.”


RECEPTION AT STAFFORD HOUSE. 
 	On the evening of June 26th the official
reception of the International Council took
place at Stafford House. Nearly one
thousand guests were present, of whom the
great majority were ladies. The guests
were welcomed by the Duchess of Suther-
land and the Countess of Aberdeen. They
formed a harmony in black and white that
would have attracted the admiration of Mr.
Whistler, the Duchess wearing a lovely
gown of white crepe de lisse, adorned with
bands of blue and silver passementerie,
with diamonds in her hair and on her neck,
while the Countess of Aberdeen was in
black satin richly trimmed with jet, with
pearl and diamond ornaments. Later in
the evening they were joined by Lady
Warwick, who wore a beautiful costume of
white satin embroidered with silver, and a
diamond tiara.
	Among the delegates present, perhaps Mr.
and Mrs. Shen, from China, who wore
their national costume, attracted the most
attention. On all sides were to be seen
ladies who had taken a prominent share in
different branches of philanthropic, educa-
tional and political work. Lady Dufferin
was present in black satin and lace, Mrs.
Creighton, Lady Wimborne, Mrs. May
Wright Sewall, Lady Knightly, of Faws-
ley, Mrs. F. A. Steele, Madame Antoinette
Sterling and many more. Music was pro-
vided by a Hungarian band, and all the
rooms opening on to the gallery were
thrown open to the guests.
	Perhaps the strange irony of life was
never more clearly shown than by the fact
that this great gathering of women should
have taken place on the very night when
the sex in England were being deprived of
one of the powers which they exercised to
most advantage.
					Daily Chronicle.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah,
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months.
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1, 1899.


[Column 1] 
ABROAD IN LONDON.
	Here we are in London, England, hav-
ing escaped the perils of the great deep,
and railway travels, rain, hail and wind,
thunder and lightning, both at sea and on
land, as well as the noise and various other
inconveniences, and landed safe at Liverpool
and reached destination alone after arriving
at Eustis station: Mrs. Gaffney, the only
one we really knew, going off in a “four-
wheeler” to the Hotel Cecil, and the writer
to the Westminster. Rain pouring down in
torrents, but the very idea of driving through
the streets of this famous city, and catch-
ing a glimpse of the House of Parliament
and Westminster Abbey would compensate
for anything, unless an earthquake or cy-
clone. Emotion, sentiment, every mental
and spiritual sense awakened to its highest
activity; tears as well as rain were stream-
ing down, and it was well for the moment
to be alone. Indeed it seemed good to be
alive, and it was not necessary to pinch
one’s self, as a friend since remarked she
had to, to realize the fact of an actual living
personality, possessed of heart and brain.

“If thou hast not the tender heart-throb, pitying,
Proclaiming kinship of a deep world-love,
	Thou hast not lived.”

	There are no words to express the deep-
est emotion awakened in one, of a truly
sympathetic feeling for all delightful things
existing in nature and the great world.
	Westminster Abbey two minutes walk
from the hotel, think of it! and all the
time in view if one looks out of the win-
dow; also the great Parliament clock, called
here “Big Ben,” so one can always know
the correct time. Yet, in a way, we have
not a minute to do anything outside of the
Council and Congress, and so many meet-
ings are held at the same time that the puz-
zle is which to attend. But one can only
get into two meetings in the same morning
or afternoon, (not even the reporters unless
they are fleet of foot) because the distances
are too great from one place of meeting to
another, but usually two are held in one
building; for instance: in the Large Hall,
Westminster Town Hall, and the Small
Hall, and the same is true of some other
buildings; yet when there is a business or
executive session, those of us who have
the privilege of attending know where we
must go.
	The entertainments are certainly a
very great feature of the International
Council. Concerts and theatres fade into

[Column 2]
insignificance in comparison to receptions
given by the elite of London, or, one might
say, of British nobility to members of the
Congress.
	The opening of Stafford House, where
one is received by the Countess of Aber-
deen, the Duchess of Sutherland and
Countess of Warwick, all three, is indeed a
remarkable thing for any organization of
women in this very exclusive country
where the lines of class distinction are so
strongly marked. To describe all this, or
even a small part of it, would take more
time than the writer can give while here;
that must come afterwards.
	The reception at Stafford House was
Monday, June 26, from 9 to 12 p. m. The
magnificence of the house is bewildering in
its effect upon one new to such splendor.
	Surrey House reception, given by Lady
Battersea, was on Wednesday, 9:30 to 12
p. m. Lord Battersea received with his
wife. The house was more antique than
that of Stafford; the affair was, however,
quite as brilliant.
	Saturday afternoon, July 1, 4:30 to 7,
garden party at Fulham Palace given by
the Lord Bishop of London and his wife,
Mrs. Creighton. This palace is four
miles’ drive from Hyde Park corner,
though it is also reached by district rail-
way and Putney omnibus.
	Other official entertainments come next
week, of which we hope to write later, if
we survive the excitement.
	We are constantly being asked if the
meetings of the Council and the various
Congresses come up to our expectations.
We can answer both yes and no—some are
wonderful, and all have some excellent
features, but there are also some things not
reaching the highest standard of excellence.
And although there are on all occasions
from twenty to thirty reporters at the tables
reserved for them, yet the London papers
give very meagre accounts of the proceed-
ings, or even of the official receptions.
	There are so many great meetings and
great occasions of various kinds in this
far-famed city of the world, that even an
International Council and Congress of Wo-
men from many countries is only one
among the many assemblies. Parliament
is drawing to a close and the intense inter-
est of the British empire must centre more
particularly there, as well as with the great
banking and commercial welfare of the
land, so far as newspapers are concerned.
	We have not yet visited 42 Islington,
Liverpool, though we anticipate doing so;
but today we have been to the headquarters
of the Elders in London. We attended fast
meeting at 2 p. m. in Myddleton Hall, a
very nice, comfortable meeting room,
where several of our party bore testimony.
In the evening meeting we were privileged
to partake of the sacrament, and had the
opportunity of speaking again to a much
larger congregation. After meeting we
talked with the president of the Confer-
ence and of the branch about organizing a
Relief Society; this will possibly be accom-
plished during the present week. There
was a branch of the Relief Society here for
some years, but it has died out for want of
proper understanding and on account of
the president’s delicate health. We found
a very good spirit prevailing in the meeting
and among the brethren and sisters of the
branch, though it is difficult to understand
why people who have been many years in
the Church do not have an ardent desire
to gather to Zion. More anon.


CONGRATULATIONS.
	The EXPONENT cannot refrain from ex-
pressing its heartfelt congratulations to
Mr. and Mrs. John Q. Cannon upon the
arrival in the family of beautiful twin boys.
We are pleased to say that mother and
babes are doing nicely; the father is as
proud as can be, and justifiably so. The
little “Cannons” are as bright and up-to-
date additions to the general’s family equip-
ment as any one could desire, and from
present indications will grow up to be
valuable and honored members of Utah’s
hero-band, for many years of future useful-
ness and progress. May they live to fulfill
the most ardent, loving wishes of their
families and friends.


A WOMAN MISSIONARY.
	[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands,
1850.]
			[Continued.]
	For the first time in my life I took food
as a medicine, forcing it down as I would a
nauseous draught given to save my life.
Two or three times a flying fish found on
deck was dressed and cooked for me: the
sweetest morsel I tasted on the voyage.
The weather was fine, a few days’ head
wind was all the difficulty we had to en-
counter; and had it been possible for me
to have shaken off my seasickness, I should
have passed the time pleasantly. We
spoke an American whale-ship on the pas-
sage. The captain came on board with his
little daughter, six years of age, a very
pretty child. His wife, who was sailing
with him, had given birth on board ship to
twin boys, then six months old. The
captain from his vessel held them up to our
view. We praised the beauty of the ocean-
children, and hoped he might carry them
safely to the end of the voyage. Five days
before we reached Tubaui we saw the
Pamutus at a distance.
	We looked through a spy-glass and saw
cocoanut trees. Hope began to spring up
in my heart that the voyage would soon be
over. Two days before we landed I had a
fainting spell, the most severe I ever had in
my life. I called on the Elders to adminis-
ter to me, which they did, and from that
hour my darkness fled; I was relieved in
body and mind!
	As we drew near the island where we
expected to land, the children began to
talk of meeting their father. It never
once occurred to them there could be a dis-
appointment at hand. Frances, our second
daughter, had often been sad on the way.
She would frequently retire to some seclud-
ed corner to indulge in silent reveries.
When the ship hove in sight of Tubaui,
her countenance changed. On the 19th of
October she was constantly on deck look-
ing toward the desired harbor, her coun-
tenance brightening every moment. The
wind was contrary for a whole day. We
looked through a spy-glass and saw cocoa-
nut trees. We strained our eyes to catch a
glimpse of something to confirm our hopes
that all would be well with us when we
landed. Nothing could we see resembling
human life. The great cocoanut trees
towered their majestic heads far above the
horizon, and their long branches, waved in
the breeze! But the living beings were
enshrouded in the thick foliage of the
shrubbery which grows so luxuriantly ove


[Column 1]
the Islands. My highest anticipations were
to set my feet on terra firma once more; to
get fried chickens and fish and fruits of
various kinds—something to satisfy my 
longing appetite, and a soft bed to sleep on.
	In the afternoon of October 21st the pilot
came off to us. I gazed at him from head
to foot as a representative of the people
with whom I must dwell. He was huge
in size, but I thought him good looking.
I told the captain to ask him if “Paraita
was on the Islands?” He replied: “He is
not.” In an instant Ellen’s face was like
marble! She sat down with folded hands
and closed lips. I was prepared for such
tidings; had often thought that such an
event would only be coincident with many
others of a like nature which had fallen to 
my lot. To be thus informed was not the
bitterness of it. He was a prisoner on
Tahiti! The French governor had him in
custody, he was not allowed to leave the
Island. It did not alarm me, so seared
was my heart to hard things. The captain
sent word to Elder Grouard to come on
board. During the interval the children
walked thoughtfully about the deck. At
length Messrs. Grouard and Alexander
came off to the brig. They could scarcely
believe their own eyes! To see so many
American brethren coming to dwell with
them, to relieve them of their solitude,
filled them with joy and surprise! Mr.
Grouard had been for seven years shut out,
as it were, from the world, having been
sent with Mr. Pratt in the year ’43 from
Nauvoo. He has acquired an air of dig-
nity and sobriety, assimilating him with a
Catholic monk. His eyes are sunken, ap-
parently with sorrow, and his whole ap-
pearance at the time was grave and majestic.
I had seen him in the vigor and bloom of
youth, and thought him a gay, lively man.
Now his look was full of wisdom and years.
He very respectfully invited us to go on
shore.
	We were conducted over the coral reefs
with great care. The Island at a distance
presents a picturesque appearance, the
beach being skirted with ito and burau
trees, also with bananas and cocoanuts
and a variety of shrubbery of the most vivid
green. It being the 21st of October, the
season we expect to see the leaves turning
yellow and falling off, not to see the least
sign of decay conveys to the mind a feeling
of admiration.
	The buildings, though far from elegant,
have an appearance of romance. Little
white cottages in the woods,shining through
the green trees, away from the bustle of
the busy world far over the mighty ocean!
To find the remnants of Israel enjoying,
though in a rude state, an incessant spring!
The idea was exalting to one tired of the 
sea as I was. The buildings are low but
very long, plastered inside and out with
lime made from the coral rock; there can-
not be a purer white. I thought of eating
the good fruit, and weak as I was, I walked
with a light step. Multitudes of people
assembled on the beach to welcome us. As
soon as they could reach our hands, they
saluted us in Tahiti: “Ea ora nu ae, te fetii
nu Paraita,” each by our Tahitian names,
as we were introduced by Mr. Grouard.
	A native man who held the office of
“alcalda,” according to French jurispru-
dence, came and took me by the hand, say-
ing, “vau araitai oe” (I will lead you.)
He had a piece of blue drilling bound
about his loins, a sailor jacket, which he
wore without a shirt: that was his com-

[Column 2]
mon suit. On Sabbath days he dressed
like a white man. We took the lead; the
remainder of the company followed at a re-
spectful distance. I could hear them
laughing behind us, but I did not look
back, so intent was I in talking to my
guide. We soon reached the place where
the former friends of “Paraita” resided: I
mean those with whom he had his home,
they were all his friends. Nabotu and
Terii were their names. The latter was
sick with the measles. As soon as she
heard “Paraita’s” family had come, she
rose by faith above the disease and com-
menced arranging supper for us. In the
same house we found Mr. Grouard’s
native wife with a young babe. She ap-
peared exceedingly timid, would not stay
in the house. We tried to win her con-
fidence, talked by an interpreter, assuring
her we were her friends, that we had come
to do her good. The supper was set before
us, every dish entirely new, except fowl
and fish. Everything was relished. I felt
no aversion to anything that was called
food, it was all delicious to my taste.
	The whole population assembled to
greet us: “Ia ora na otou te haera ra mai to
Tubuai nai,” (Peace be to you in coming
to Tubaui) went around and around.
Evening drew near, the singers came in to
sing. Long grass was laid for a floor, on
which they were seated. The music was
delightful! Their voices are loud and
clear, and no people can excel them in
keeping time. Queen Rapah came with
the rest, and I urged her to be seated in a 
chair, but she refused, so modest was she
and unwilling we should think she wished 
to assume any superiority above the other
women. The moon was then at its full,
and the house was surrounded with shade
trees covered with bright yellow flowers. I
looked upon the humble people seated on
the ground singing the praises of God. I
gazed  upon the scenery which surrounded
the dwellings: the pale rays of the moon
shining through the trees in a thousand
shapes; the tall cocoanuts waving their
branches high up in the azure vault; the
great itoes above all the rest; seen by the
queen of night, while the imagination was
warm with the reflection of the great dis-
tance we had come and the suffering we
had endured, all conspired to fill the mind
with ideas great with meaning. I said,
“God is in it all!”
	Brother Grouard sought to encourage us.
He believed that when the Messenger
(king’s vessel) returned from Tahiti,
Brother Pratt would come: it did not thus
prove. The idea of his being a prisoner
was painful to me, except when I con-
sidered it was for the Gospel’s sake we had
come to a strange world.
	A whole week was spent in conversa-
tion. Mr. Grouard had been preaching
among the Islands for seven years, had
heard very little from the Church. Great
things had transpired, he had many ques-
tions to ask. Hoatan, the native chief
who had the charge of us, ordered the
house repaired and the lot fenced. Seventy
banana trees were planted, and a garden
made with the seeds we had brought. Near-
ly all were new to the natives, they had
never seen any of our common vegetables.
Here in October we make our gardens.
Such cabbages I never saw grown before:
mammoth in very deed! Very soon we
had a fine flower garden to look upon. We
planted corn in November. We had only
to dig up the ground with a spade, it was

[Column 3]
loamy and mellow, everything grows ap-
parently by magic.
	Sister Grouard soon became accustomed
to our habits, and would in a small degree
conform to them. We find her rather a 
sensible, intelligent, ingenious woman.
	A letter arrived stating that the governor
on Tahiti would not permit Mr. Pratt to
leave that Island until all the Mormon
Elders would assemble in Tahiti and sign a
document, entering into an agreement to
teach nothing derogatory to the French
government. This was a trial of our pa-
tience, but we strove to bear it as graciously
as was possible. The good people were so
sympathetic they were ready to weep over
us. 
	The second week we all went to Mahu, a
village on the opposite side of the Island,
five miles over a mountain. We could
walk beneath the shade of trees the whole 
distance. It was where Mr. Pratt landed
when first he came on his mission. The
same family were still living in the same
house where he took up his abode.
They were very friendly. Their little
daughter, thirteen years of age, was the
wedded wife of Brother Alexander, the first
man on the Island baptized into the Mor-
mon faith. She looked like a mere child
and conducted herself like one. The old “Fere
bare ra” (prayer house) stood near the
beach, a tall ito tree in front of each door.
I went into the house where six years be-
fore my husband had been wont to pray. In
the pulpit, just as the sun was setting, I
kneeled before the Lord to thank Him for
preserving all our lives while crossing the 
great waters.
	The second day I returned on horseback.
The children complained of being lonely,
mourned the absence of their father. We
amused ourselves by teaching the native
women how to knit, and studying the lan-
guage.
	On Christmas Sister Crosby and I made
a feast for our families, inviting what few
white brethren and sisters were on our side
of the Island. We had string beans, cucum-
bers and green corn. That was something
to communicate to our kindred in the cold
regions of Lower Canada, where snow at
that season is often six feet deep.
	The people were very anxious to teach
us their language. Nearly all our evenings
were spent in reading and translating the
scriptures. It was a source of great
amusement: there are so many mistakes
made it excites merriment. The house
was thronged at night with natives reading
and singing. Many of them had never
seen a European woman. Our eldest
daughter played the flutina, which amused
and delighted them. It was no little diver-
sion for us to exhibit the little curiosities
we brought with us from San Francisco, to
witness their pleasure and admiration, hear
them eulogize America, and marvel that it
should contain so many wonderful things !
	I brought with me the likeness of the
Prophet Joseph Smith and of Hyrum, which
I hung against the wall of a room in the
mission house. A native brother from the 
Chain Islands, one evening while we were
all seated around the table reading, with-
drew and went into the room to look at the
picture. He kneeled before it in order
that the painting might come in range
with his eyes. For a quarter of an hour
he gazed steadfastly upon it, I believe,
without turning his eyes. I did not suppose it
was an act of worship, but he wished to
impress the lineaments of the features upon


[Column 1]
his mind. I could not help admiring his
devotion. I knew his faith was strong in
the Gospel, and he felt a solemn pleasure in
surveying the features of the murdered
Prophet and Patriarch.
	The Island sisters have great faith in the
consecrated oil, which was blessed by Presi-
dent Brigham Young previous to our leav-
ing Salt Lake City. When I told them
from whence it came and the designs of it,
they would invariably bring their sick chil-
dren to me and request me to anoint them
with the holy oil, nothing doubting but
a cure would be effected; and, according to
their faith, often was it done unto them.
	Their habits of devotion are really com-
mendable. At all seasons of the year they
rise at early dawn. The first exercise is to
call the family and fall upon their knees in
prayer. Often before their first meal,
they ring the bell and go to the house of
worship, read a chapter in the Bible, sing a
hymn, and, if their teacher is present, they
ask questions upon portions they do not fully
understand, seldom continuing their ex-
ercises more than a half hour. They make
many feasts, sometimes calling all within
hailing distance to come and partake. At
other times they send the food to their
kindred and neighbors, and a generous,
share to their teachers.
	On January 4th, 1851, Elder Grouard
made a great feast to celebrate his 33rd
birthday. It was held at his own dwelling
house, a very long building. About one
hundred people were invited. The food
was purely native, with the exception of
fifty mince pies, which the missionaries’
wives contributed. The guests were not
assembled until the food was all arranged
in order. Mats were laid the whole length
of the building, large leaves laid for plates,
likewise plaited for tablecloths. Through
the centre was laid the food, a cocoanut at
each plate; the shells being a bright orange
contrasted beautifully with the green leaves.
	I shall never forget the admiration I felt as
I gazed upon that table spread upon the
ground! Never in my life had I seen any-
thing to exceed it! Mats were laid for the
guests to be seated. A few there were who
had knives and forks. All present seemed
to have merry hearts. Mr. Grouard rend-
ered thanks to the Great Disposer of events,
that he had lived to see that joyful day,
even to greet so many of his friends from
America and have them present on that
grand occasion! When all had feasted to a
fullness, and while remaining seated, Mr.
Grouard arose and addressed the assembly
in a most appropriate manner. He referred
to his long confinement on the Islands, be-
lieving it to be his duty to remain there till
the Elders were sent to relieve him. Thirty-
three years of his life had passed away;
truly his life had been an eventful one.
He felt that the Lord had heard his pray-
ers, in that he had lived to see the faces of
so many of his former friends, and to re-
joice with them in the midst of a humble
and loving people, whose hearts were
warm towards us and were ready to re-
ceive the truth. Thirty-three years from
that day, when he should have attained his
sixty-sixth year, he said, "I will make
another feast." All present, if living,
should be invited. We all responded a
hearty amen!
	Mr. Grouard is a gentleman distinguished
for beauty and graceful appearance; though
by being excluded too much from society,
he has acquired too large a share of gravity
and sedateness. He combines the orator, phil-

[Column 2]
osopher and preacher of righteousness, with
the sailor and native man of the Island. He
has married two Island women. The first
died, leaving him a little daughter one
month old. The second has borne him three
sons. The girl, now four years of age, was
placed in our eldest daughter’s charge, a very
sprightly child. She had never learned
one word of English from her father, which
to us seemed very surprising. With her
new teacher she made rapid improvement.
[To be continued.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
A VISIT THROUGH ONEIDA STAKE.
Franklin, Idaho, July 12, 1899.
Dear Editor Exponent:
	President Elizabeth Fox and Counselors
Mary Hawkes and D. E. Dudley started
on their annual trip around the Oneida
Stake, Monday, June 12, 1899.
	They held their first meeting at Fair-
view, President Phebe McNeal presiding.
The meeting opened with the usual exer-
cises of singing and prayer. The subjects
spoken upon were storing grain, building
granaries, paying tithing, education of our
children and preserving the virtue and
health of the daughters of Zion. A good
spirit prevailed. Several of the local sis-
ters bore faithful testimonies.
	After enjoying dinner and sociability
with President Phebe McNeal, we pro-
ceeded on our way rejoicing to Weston,
where at 2 p. m. we found the sisters all
assembled awaiting us. Bishop Clark and
Counselor Michaelson met with us, which
was much appreciated, for it seemed to give
strength and confidence to have our
brethren meet with us. President Clark
not being able to be present, the meeting
was presided over by her first counselor,
Andrea Larsen. A good spirit prevailed.
	President Fox was the first speaker. She
was sorry Sister Clark could not be present.
Was glad the brethren were here so they
could hear what was taught to the sisters
in their ward; gave much timely in-
struction; also read the instructions to the
Relief Society which were published in the
EXPONENT of May 1, 1899, and advised
them to be kept in their record for future
reference in their society.
	Counselor Mary Hawkes was pleased to
see so many present. She could heartily
endorse the remarks of President Fox.
	Counselor D. E. Dudley, followed. Ad-
vised the sisters to take care of their health
and to teach their children to be self sup-
porting and assist them to acquire a useful
education.
	President McNeal, of Fairview, advised
the mothers not to work so hard; said many
things could be neglected. Give a mother
time to care for her little ones.
	Bishop Clark wished to encourage the sis-
ters. Said the sisters were good to the
sick and poor under all circumstances.
	Counselor Peter Michaelson appreciated
the Primary workers and all who were en-
gaged in instructing the young.
	We were kindly entertained by Sisters
Preston and Larson for the night.
	Tuesday morning early we continued
our journey to Dayton. The air was very
cool and bracing, considering it was the 13th
of June. At 10 o’clock we met with the
Relief Society of Dayton, President Sarah
Callen and counselors, and Elder Stephen
Callen being present on the stand. We
were cheered by the warmth of a coal fire,

[Column 2]
which we were much in need of, as the
morning was cold.
	President Fox was pleased to meet with
the sisters, and hoped all were active
workers. Read the printed instructions of
Eliza R. Snow Smith from the EXPONENT,
and advised the sisters to take the EXPO-
NENT and read it, etc.
	D. E. Dudley spoke of the beauty of the
fields of flowers and the grandeur of the
mountains and streams and the magnitude
of the divine work we are engaged in; said
our Father was at the helm. Spoke of the
blessings we enjoy, and of the abundance of
the crops on the dry farms of last season.
Said the Lord had opened the windows of
heaven and poured out such blessings that
we could hardly contain them all, as many
had to move out into tents and put the
grain in their dwelling houses. In one in-
stance their building burst, and the grain
ran down hill and filled a ravine. Predic-
tions of the Saints of God were being liter-
ally fulfilled every day.
	Elder Callen bore testimony to the truth
of the remarks of all who had spoken, and
pronounced the benediction.
	At 2 p. m. we met with the Relief Soci-
ety of Clifton ward. President Elizabeth
Henderson and counselors and Elder Wil-
liam Garner were present and a goodly
number of sisters. The instructions were
on the same subjects and quite lengthy,
which occupied the time from 2 until 4
o’clock, after which we partook of the sup-
per the sisters had prepared beforehand, in
company with quite a number of sisters,
and separated for the night to meet again in
Oxford at 10 o’clock.
	Promptly on time we met at the Ox-
ford meeting house with a goodly number
of sisters; and one unusual feature of the
meeting was a band of young ladies who
came and sang in the choir for the meeting.
President Lewis and her counselors were
present, and she presided over the meeting.
	None of the priesthood being present,
meeting was opened by Sister D. E. Dud-
ley, and Sister Haws was remembered in
the prayer by her request, as she was very
sick.
	President Lewis reported her branch as
in good condition but less in number, as
they had organized a branch at Swan Lake
on the 23rd of April, 1899, which had taken
the larger portion of her flock.
	After a lengthy meeting we took dinner
with President Lewis, and proceeded on to
Treasureton to fill our next appointment at
3 o’clock. We found many of the sisters
present. The people are scattered over a
district of seven or eight miles, which is a
great disadvantage to the sisters in attend-
ing meetings and acting as teachers. They
have lately completed a Relief Society
building in which they intend to hold meet-
ings and store grain. All are united in the
good work.
	We spent an enjoyable evening with
Brother and Sister Williams and proceeded
on to our District conference.
	Tuesday morning was balmy and cool,
all nature smiling. The grass was green
and the trees in blossom and clear streams
were rippling down the hillsides under-
neath the cool shade, wending their way to
field and garden, not the river. The re-
mark was made that some wise man had
said: “He who makes two blades of grass
grow where only one grew before, is a
benefactor.” Then surely the inhabitants
of these grand old hills and valleys are
benefactors to a great extent, for thousand


of blades grow where sagebrush grew be-
fore.
	We arrived at Mink Creek at 10:30 and
rested and dined with Brother and Sister
Graham. Met in conference at 2 p. m.
Present on the stand were President Eliza-
beth Fox and Counselors Mary Hawkes
and D. E. Dudley, President Graham,
Phebe McNeal and Bishop Rasmuson, of
Fairview, all of whom spoke, and the spirit
of God was abundantly enjoyed and much
good counsel was given: instructions about
building granaries, storing grain, taking
and reading the EXPONENT and paying
tithing. President Graham reported the
society in good working order. Said the
Relief Society had donated twenty dollars
to help the missionaries in the last two
years, and had looked after the poor and
done much good in general.
	Our next meeting was held at Glen Dale
at 10 o’clock Friday morning, President
Mary Ann Nelson presiding, President
Fox and Counselor D. E. Dudley, of the Stake
presidency, being present on the stand.
Meeting opened with the usual exercises;
members enrolled, 26; members present,
16. The organization is complete. The
sisters are young; they had not subscribed
for the EXPONENT as yet, but would do so.
	Proceeded on to Preston to fill our last
appointment at 2 o’clock p. m. We met
with the usual kind reception of the sisters,
who were glad to see us although we were
dusty and traveled-stained. President
Julia Roper presided. After the opening
exercises much good instruction was given,
but as it was practically the same as has
been mentioned before, it is not necessary
to repeat it here. The subject of purity
was continued, for the Gospel was never to
be taken from the earth, and God in His
wisdom had reserved noble spirits to come
forth in this day for this special work, and
He desired them to have pure and noble
bodies to live in.
	After benediction we separated to go to
our homes, feeling that we had been great-
ly blessed in our labors.
E. FOX, Pres.,
D. E. DUDLEY, Sec. pro tem.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
SAN LUIS STAKE.
	Minutes of a Relief Society conference
held in the Manassa Stake house, May 12,
1899, commencing at 10 a. m., President
Cornelia Mortensen presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing, “Now let us
rejoice.” Prayer by Brother Charles Cot-
ton. Singing, “Do what is right.”
	Sister Cornelia Mortensen said we were
assembled to hold our Relief Society con-
ference, and she felt grateful to our Heaven-
ly Father for this privilege. Hoped we
would receive the spiritual food we so
much need.
	Sister Mary Jensen gave a report of Los
Cerritos branch of the Relief Society. Said:
“I am glad to meet the sisters in confer-
ence and feel that we will be blessed while
thus assembled. If we ‘do what is right
and let the consequence follow’ we will be
all right. The sisters of Los Cerritos are
very much interested in our Relief Society,
and the brethren seem to think we are do-
ing well. We read the Doctrine and
Covenants. We have some Mexican sis-
ters enrolled, and they take a great inter-
est in the labor. We should observe clean-
liness and teach it in the Relief Society, do

[Column 2]
good where we can, uphold the authorities,
pray for all and be exemplary.”
	Sister Margaret Hamil, of Morgan, said: “I
always feel like doing my duty, for I know
I have to work out my own salvation. We
are getting along fairly well at Morgan, we
have more enrolled than usual. We have
some money, property and wheat on hand,
and have a lot bought and paid for where
we intend to build a house of our own. I
would exhort the sisters to be faithful in
their duties and qualify themselves to be
able to give a cause for the hope that is
within them.”
	Sister P. E. Cullers, Mountain View
branch, said: "My brethren and sisters,
being called to give a report of the Moun-
tain View and Bountiful branches of the
Relief Society, I will endeavor to do so to
the best of my ability. The sisters are de-
sirous of doing all the good they can in for-
warding the work of the Relief Society.
We have an enrollment of twenty mem-
bers.”
	Sister Rosa Koch, of Manassa, read an
essay entitled, “The Home and Mother as
They Influence our Lives.”
	Sister Magdaline Funk said: “I am glad
to meet with my sisters in conference and
have rejoiced in listening to the reports
given. Let us be awake to our duties,
these societies are a great aid to the Bishops.
The sisters in their visits can find out the
circumstances of families that the brethren
cannot. I pray God to bless us all. Amen.”
	Sister Dollie Russell bore a strong testi-
mony to the truthfulness of the Gospel.
Said she had seen the power of God
made manifest in many ways.
	Singing, “The Spirit of God like a fire is
burning.” Benediction by Sister Maria
Harrison.
	Afternoon session. Meeting opened by
singing “How firm a foundation.” Prayer
by Brother Robert Coleman. Singing, “O,
Ye mountains high.”
	Sister M. Sellers gave a report of Manas-
sa ward. Said the sisters were united and
they were trying to do all the good they
could.
	Sister Margaret Haskel gave a report of
her visit to the conference of the Relief
Society in Salt Lake City. She said she
had not felt more of the spirit of God in any
meeting than in the Relief Society confer-
ence. One sister was moved upon to speak
in tongues, and it was interpreted by
another sister. Many important subjects
were talked upon: one was unity, another
the storing of grain.
	Sister Mary F. Crowther presented the
general and local officers of the Relief Soci-
ety, and they were unanimously sustained;
also called the roll and read the minutes of
last conference.
	Sister Forthilda Funk gave a report of
Sanford ward. She said they were trying
to improve and all were feelfng well.
	Song by Sister Ada L. Maloy, entitled
“O, my Savior.”
	Sister Emily Dunn, of Eastdale, said in
reporting their society she desired to be
led by the Spirit of God. She said she had
nothing but good to say of her sisters, and
every sister in the ward had her name en-
rolled.
	Brother Orlando Funk was somewhat
surprised at being called to speak in this
conference. Bore his testimony that the
Spirit of God had been with us. He spoke
at length on cleanliness, habits and duties of
mothers.
	Sister Melvina Hutchins said she had

[Column 3]
been well paid for coming to meeting today,
and bore her testimony to the truth of the
Gospel and power of healing by the priest-
hood, and was thankful to her Heavenly
Father for this testimony.
	Sister Irene Smith said she was thankful
to have the privilege of speaking and bear-
ing her testimony to the truth of the
Gospel; also spoke of the necessity of form-
ing good habits.
	President Cornelia Mortensen gave a re-
port of her visits together with her coun-
selors in the various wards in the Stake.
Said they found the sisters striving to do
their duties with renewed energy. Spoke
at length on cleanliness, and exhorted the
sisters to put into practice the instructions
given.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
Singing, “Come, come ye Saints.” Bene-
diction by Sister Annie Westover.
CORNELIA MORTENSEN, Pres.
MARY F. CROWTHER, Sec.

ST. JOSEPH STAKE.
	The conference of St. Joseph Stake was
held at Pima, June 17, 1899. Meeting was
called to order by President Elizabeth Lay-
ton. There were present on the stand of
the presiding priesthood, Presidents Andrew
Kimball and W. D. Johnson, besides
Bishops from several of the wards.
	After singing by the Pima ward choir
and prayer by Bishop John Taylor, minutes
of the preceding conference were read and
approved. Roll was called, showing
twenty officers present. Opening remarks
were made by President E. Layton.
	President Sarah Weech reported the Pima
Relief Society: said they had completed their
society hall and had for some time been
meeting in it.
	President Jennie Cluff, of Central, and
President Nancy Rollins, of Layton, re-
ported their respective societies.
	President Kimball said he was proud of
the Relief Society; that he honored it and
respected the officers and members of the
same. Had always, under all circumstan-
ces, according to his best judgment, per-
formed his duty in regard to them, and,
with the help of God, would continue to
do so.
	Elizabeth Moody, of Thatcher, who had
recently returned from a two years’
visit in Provo, was thankful to be at home
again mingling with the sisters with whom
she labored so long and diligently. She
had attended the Relief Society in Utah in
a ward capacity as also in their conference,
and did not think they were in advance of
our society, either in attendance or the
storing of grain. Encouraged the sisters in
their good work and asked God to bless all.
	Singing by the choir. Prayer by Broth-
er Peter H. McBride.
	Afternoon session, 2 p. m. Singing.
Prayer by President William D. Johnson.
Verbal reports of the wards were continued
by Josephine Curtis, of Eden; Dorothy
Nelson, of Bryce; Elizabeth Skinner, of
Graham, and Oliva Larson, of Mathews.
There being no representation from Frank-
lin and St. David, they were reported by
the Stake officers who had lately visited
them. Each of the branches was reported
as being in good working order, and all
seemed to have a desire to assist in the
furtherance of the cause.
	Stake Counselor Adelia Curtis said she
would, if she could be led by the spirit of
God, speak a few minutes to the teachers.


Said: “You sisters who are called to labor
in this capacity cannot afford to neglect
your duty. If you do not visit often,
make it thorough when you do. You must
go in humility, with a prayer in your
heart, and ask your Heavenly Father to
assist you. No office can be filled without
some sacrifice on the part of the officer. It
is sacrifice that brings forth the bless-
ings of heaven.” Asked for the faith and
prayers of the sisters.
	Ex-President Wilmarth East, who has
been greatly afflicted for the past four years,
was, by the kindness of some of the sisters,
taken to the conference, where she enjoyed
herself and the sisters enjoyed her presence.
She bore a strong testimony to the truth of
the Gospel, and urged the mothers to have
a constant watch over their children; also
spoke in tongues.
	A beautiful quartette, “There’s Room for
You to Anchor Safe in Heaven,’’was rend-
ered by members of the choir.
	President W. D. Johnson said there were
many things that could be talked of profit-
ably. All should understand and obey the
Gospel. These associations are organized
for the benefit of all. Each will be re-
warded according to her acts. Live as
Latter-day Saints, and God will add His
blessings.
	Statistical and financial reports were read
by the secretary. Remarks by Bishop
John Taylor.
	Sister Colman, of the St. Johns Stake,
was pleased to be in our midst. Though
she was among strangers she felt that we
were sisters. We should be kind and
thoughtful of the aged and infirm.
	President Elizabeth Layton urged the
sisters to do their duty as members of the
Relief Society, and to attend the officers’
monthly meetings. Was thankful for the
instructions of the brethren and pleased
with the reports of the sisters. Felt en-
couraged in her labors and knew that God
had and would continue to bless all who
serve Him.
	The names of the Stake officers were
presented by President A. Kimball and
unanimously sustained by the congregation.
	President Kimball spoke at some length
on the storing of grain. Said President
Young knew what he was doing when he
called upon the sisters to save grain. The
prophets did not make any mistake when
they said the time would come when a 
barrel of flour would be worth a barrel of
gold. Said this society was not organized
as a speculative body, but to care for the
destitute, comfort the downcast and save
what they have for a time of scarcity.
	Conference adjourned for six months
by the choir and congregation singing,
“Lord dismiss us.” Benediction by
Bishop George Skinner.
	SARAH WEBB, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting con-
vened in the 14th ward hall, July 8, 1899,
with Counselor Elizabeth Webb presiding.
Meeting opened by singing “O, happy
souls who pray!” Prayer by Sister Gib-
son. Singing “We thank Thee, O God,
for a prophet.” Minutes of previous meet-
ing read and approved.
	Sister Webb said she was glad to see so
many present; felt that we need to come
often together to refresh our minds, for we
all need the help of the Lord. A special

[Column 2]
prayer was offered by Sister Webb for Sister
Samson, who is very sick.
	Sister Lambert said we make great pro-
fessions to be the Saints of God, felt it a
great privilege to be called such, but it is
necessary to ask the Lord continually to
help us to do our duty. Felt that the
society work was very elevating: to look
after the sick and afflicted, the poor, etc.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith spoke of the
pleasant time she had at an old folks'
gathering the previous day; that she was
presented with a fan, as she was the only
one present who had had her endowments
in the day of the Prophet Joseph Smith;
also spoke of the necessity of tithe paying.
Don’t borrow or be in debt, was an exhor-
tation she made. Said she had the privi-
lege of attending the solemn assembly in
the Temple, July 2nd.
	Sister Pixton spoke of the goodly num-
ber present. Said she felt that it increased,
the spirit of God for many of the sisters to
meet together. Spoke of the way in which
the Lord had blessed her. She was pleased
to say that her husband had always paid
tithing. Spoke of the danger of allowing
children to have money to waste, but be-
lieved in doing good with it. Do not
waste our time, for there is many a sin of
omission as well as commission.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon knew that no
sister would go from this meeting without
a blessing if she was seeking for one.
Thought it was necessary to be practical
women and improve ourselves. Spoke of
our blessings, and said that we should be
thankful for them.
	Sister Barnes spoke of the charity and
humility Sister Pixton had always shown.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde expressed her
thankfulness at meeting again with the
sisters. Thanked the Lord for restoring
her daughter. Felt that if we respect
the head, the mouthpiece of God, we would
never go astray. Spoke of the way we
were misrepresented in the world. Spoke
of visiting the Johns Hopkins Hospital,
said to be the best in the world. Read the
requirements of a nurse in the same; also
spoke of the indifference there was for the
Gospel in the world. Said to the nurses
present, that their president, Mrs. Riter,
would like reports from them.
	Dr. Roberts said she did not know what
President Horne required her to do today,
but she desired the spirit of the Lord to
prompt her to do and say what was required.
Explained to the nurses what was required
of them in this charity work. Said Dr.
Richards had stated that where these
nurses had attended his patients, he had
nothing but good words for them; that they
were as competent as if they had taken a
four years’ course. Spoke of the noble
character that had been made manifest
among them, and said some had com-
plained because they felt they could not do
the charity work they had promised to.
Said Sister Hyde would take charge of the
nurses in the absence of Sister Riter.
	Counselor Webb said President Horne
was absent on account of an accident which
had befallen her. Announced that there
would be a Relief Society excursion to
Saltair on the 28th of July. Said she knew
that through obedience we would re-
ceive blessings. She exhorted the wom-
en of the society to be exemplary.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing, Doxology. Prayer by Sister Clara C.
Cannon.
J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.

[Column 3]
	IT is a good rule to be deaf when a
slanderer begins to talk.
	DESPISE no one; for everyone knows
something thou knowest not.
	To live without envy is a certain indica-
tion of great qualities.
	THE greatest benefactor to society is not
he who serves it by single acts, but he
whose general character is the manifesta-
tion of a higher spirit than pervades the
man.


Save Your Money! 
And when you get a dollar, deposit it 
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust 
Company, the oldest and largest savings 
bank in Utah.
	Since the establishment of the bank 
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts.
	The laws of Utah permit married 
women and also children who are minors 
to open savings accounts in their own 
name, subject to their own order. Have 
you such an account? If not, open 
one NOW.
	We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said 
interest four times a year. 
WRITE for any information desired. 
	LORENZO SNOW, Prest. 
	GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier 
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street. 

R. K. THOMAS 
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY. 

The Leading Retail
Cash House. 
R. K. THOMAS

[Column 1]
GARFIELD
BEACH.
[Column 2]
POPULAR
BATHING
RESORT.
OPEN JUNE 22.

Boating, Bathing, Dancing.

TRAIN SERVICE:
<div>[Column 1]
SALT LAKE.
10 30 a.m.
2:15 p.m.
4:30 p.m.
6:45 p.m.

[Column 2]
LEAVE
GARFIELD.
1:00 p.m.
5:30 p.m.
7:30 p.m.
10:00 p.m.

Round Trip 25c. 

Depot Cor. First South and Fourth West.


Woman's Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 28.
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15, & SEPTEMBER 1, 1899.
Nos. 6 & 7.


CONTENTS.
A Woman Missionary . . . . . Mrs. Addison Pratt	41.
Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting . . J. S. Woolley	42.
Raising Mulberry Trees . . . . . . Jane S. Coleman	46.
The Old Folks Remembered . . . . . . Little Sister	47.
Obituary—Martha V. Steiner . . . Rhoda C. Nash	47. 
	Maude VelleFairbanks . . Jane Worsencroft	47.
	Lucy Althea Gardner. . . . . Delilah Gardner	47.
	Mary Caroline Hart . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Com.	47.
A Pleasant Birthday Celebration . . . . . . S. A. R.	47.
R. S. Report—Morgan . . . . . . . . Emeline Wood	48.
Reunion at Saltair . . . . . . . . . Aimee C. Schiller	48.
U. W. P. C. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Aimee C.Schiller.	48.

EDITORIAL:—A Spiritual Awakening . . . . . . .	44.
	At Home Again . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	44.
	Laying of Corner Stone. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	46.
	Marriage of Miss E. W. [-]ears . . . . . . . . . .	43.
	Editorial Notes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	43.

POETRY:—O God, the Darkness Roll Away . . .
  	 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . William Gaskell	41.
	The Everlasting Day. . . . R. S. Wellsbourne	41.
	To Sister Elizabeth Stevenson . . R. M. Fox	43.
	Send Down Thy Truth . . . . . . . . . . . E. Sill	43.
	The Age of Gold . . . . . . . . . . M. I. Savage	43.
	Freedom . . . . . . . . . . Ella Wheeler Wilcox	43.
Miscellaneous . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .


O GOD, THE DARKNESS ROLL AWAY.

	(Sung at Women’s Meeting on International
arbitration, London,  June 27, by Miss Esther
Palliser.)

O God ! the darkness roll away 
		Which clouds the human soul,
	And let thy bright and holy day
		Speed onward to its goal !

	Let every hateful passion die
		Which makes our brethren foes,
	And war no longer raise its cry
		To mar the world’s repose.

	How long shall glory still be found
		In scenes of cruel strife,
	Where misery walks, a giant crowned,
Crushing the flowers of life?

	O hush, Great God, the sounds of war,
		And make thy children feel 
That he, with Thee, is nobler far
		Who toils for human weal —

	Let faith, and hope, and charity,
		Go forth through all the earth;
	And man in holy friendship be
		True to his heavenly birth.

						WILLIAM GASKELL.


THE EVERLASTING DAY. 
(Sung by Miss Ella Walker at the Women’s
Meeting on  International Arbitration.) 
I stood on a lofty mountain 
And I gazed over land and sea,
And thought of life's wondrous fountain, 
Its source, and Eternity. 
I thought of God's mighty secrets, 
And how His Myst'ries blend, 
The past without beginning, 
A future without end. 
I looked on the boundless splendor 
Till its marvels dimm’d my sight, 
Then slept in a calm amazement, 
And dream'd with a strange delight;
I dreamed of a Heav'nly City 
Where soul with soul will blend,
Where time has no beginning, 
Where bliss will never end. 
The dream was a revelation, 
A vision of vanquish'd strife, 
A sweet imagination 
Of pure and hallow'd life:
A vision of God's great bounty, 
When sin shall have passed away, 
Of souls from sleep awaking 
To everlasting day. 
R. S. WELLEBOURNE.


[Column 1]
A WOMAN MISSIONARY.
	[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands
1850.]
		[Continued.]
	Mr. T. Whittaker, an intelligent Eng
lishman, was living on the Island with a
Tahitian wife, a good, kind woman, but
resembling him as little as a bear resembles
a sheep. He removed with her to Tahiti,
where he zealously engaged in preaching
the Gospel. He is an excellent man, full
of faith and good works, and fine looking.
In his own country he might have married
a woman of culture and refinement; but his
lot was cast here, and it seems to be the
custom with white men who come here
from different nations to intermarry with
the people, leaving their wives when they
return to their respective countries, some-
times taking their children home to be edu-
cated.
	To my children it seemed cruel that after
performing such a long and tedious journey
they were not permitted to meet their fath-
er. Towards the last of January Capt.
Johnson’s schooner was descried in the dis-
tance, coming from Tahiti. The pilot went
off to it, and returned with the joyful in-
telligence that “Paraita” was on board.
Great was the excitement! we were afraid
to believe it. King Tomatoa sent for us to
come to the beach and look through his spy-
glass and view the vessel and the pas-
sengers. We did so, and beheld the long
expected man walking the deck. He had
grown very fleshy, looked surprisingly
large. The news flew like lightning over
the village, and the whole population as-
sembled at the landing to greet and wel-
come their old friend and missionary. He
had been three years absent from them, and
great were their declamations of joy on
seeing him return to their Island. Not-
withstanding their eagerness to grasp his
hand, as they crowded to the water’s edge,
they parted to make an opening for his
wife and children to salute him first, show-
ing more consideration than many persons
would in more civilized life. It was a great
day for us all. He brought with him a bushel
of Tahitian oranges, the sweetest in the
world; likewise a quantity of Vii apples of
peculiarly delicious flavor, a fruit we had
never seen before. The natives hastened
to make a feast, and a great one it was, for
the vast amount of food that was cooked.
Brother Busby had left the preceding day
for Tahiti. I had contemplated going on
the same vessel, had I not received an im-
pression that it was not right to go. I
should have passed my husband on the
way, and been left on Tahiti an uncertain
length of time.
	As soon as the accustomed ceremonies
were over, the building of a schooner was
commenced at Mahu, on the opposite side
of the Island. The material was taken
from San Francisco to build the cabin. Mr.
Grouard was competent to construct the
vessel from the keel to the topmast, and
Mr. Pratt could make the sails. The vessel
was to be of eighty tons burthen, with
welve double berths in the cabin, a centre

[Column 2]
table, transom and library. This was for
the benefit of the mission. It was built of 
tamara wood, (Island mahogany) timber of
the most enduring kind. The native men
saw their lumber with pit saws; they make
beautiful chests of their mahogany, also 
bedsteads and lounges of timber resembling
black walnut. The name of this wood is
mikii.
	Every day found me at the old “Fere
bare ra” (prayer house) teaching the native
children, in their own language, to read and
write; my own and the half-breeds in Eng-
lish. The remainder of the time I devoted
to my journal and letter writing, together
with studying and translating the Hawaiian
language. The whole time was entirely
occupied. Mrs. Tompkins and her two
little daughters I taught regularly. Her
education had been sadly neglected in early
life, but she seemed ambitious and deter-
mined to conquer the first rudiments, and
learn to read and write. She has good
natural talents. What a misfortune to be
neglected in childhood! Mr. Tompkins, 
though a little better educated, is not her
superior in judgment. He is very hospit-
able, but requires those who share his liber-
ality to feel their obligations; thus caus-
ing his benevolence to lose half its value.
Time passed on, and we had little to
complain of but fleas and mosquitoes; they
were terribly annoying! They have their
seasons. In winter (July and August) the
fleas are innumerable. In summer (Decem-
ber and January) mosquitoes take the place
by storm. No venomous reptiles. One
only, called the santipee, whose sting is
like that of a bee. Soft mud will extract
the poison. The work on the schooner
still progressed, the white men and natives
all working with a will. Occasionally a
company of us went across the mountains
to visit them at their work. Though dis-
tant five miles it was a delightful walk, the
road nearly the whole way being shaded by
beautiful trees, some bearing delicious fruit,
which we partook of as we sat down to
rest.
	About the middle of May, ’51, we were
all invited over to witness the launching of
the new schooner. Mr. Whittaker had just
completed a new sail boat; in that we set
sail about sundown. The moon was at its
full, and shining in all its loveliness. The
sea was calm, we had a delightful ride on
the water. Our friends were waiting our
arrival, had a blazing fire lightening through
the timbers: a most romantic sight. There
were ten females, old and young, in the
boat. Our native friends came out to meet
us on the reefs, and carried us in their arms
to dry land. The singers had long been
practicing new tunes to sing on the grand
occasion. The vessel had to be drawn a
considerable distance by hand; it would re-
quire all the strength the island afforded.
Those who were not members of the Church
protested they would not lend their aid un-
less the king would grant them a dance.
Permission was given, great preparations
were made and untiring skill exercised
to invent ornaments. They were engaged
in making native cloth from the bark of the


[Column 1]
paper mulberry tree for a long time before
the launching. They made it fine, bleached
it to a snowy whiteness, then stamped
with brilliant colors, all of home produc-
tion. Shapes of birds, flowers and fishes
were painted on their robes, also letters and
wheels, all of the brightest tints, which
contrasted strikingly with the white ground-
work. Both male and female were dressed in
white, their robes all the same fashion, made
whole, two yards in length, with a hole in
the center to put the head through. These
thrown carelessly over their white dresses
gave them a tasteful appearance.
	Early Monday morning we were assem-
bled to witness the parade. Officers were
chosen to conduct the movements. A
messenger was sent before to announce
their approach. There were two large com-
panies, each company occupying its own
space of ground in the dance. They had
no music, except their own vocal elements,
so loud and clear that one might imagine
himself listening to an Italian band. Their
dancing was with form and order; great
exactness in keeping time. To describe
the different exercises, the unheard of ges-
tures, and the scene throughout, would re-
quire the art of a sculptor and painter;
and they would come short of a just deline-
ation. The pile of food far exceeded all the
other wonders. To see provisions enough
to last two hundred and fifty persons a
whole week, all cooked and laid in one
huge pile, bound in bundles so thick with
leaves that not a particle of air could pene-
trate it, no more than it can jars of fruit
hermetrically sealed. Pigs weighing more
than a hundred weight, roasted whole and
tied up in the usual style, thrown on to the
heap, till it looked like a haystack of leaves.
	When the first exercise of dancing was
over, they commenced pulling at the ropes
fastened to the vessel’s sides, to move it to-
wards the coral reef. Many unsuccessful
efforts were made ere it was started at all.
They were obliged to take advantage of low
tides, or stand in deep water. The king’s
son, who was captain, stood in his place
with the scarlet coat on which I had made
him, and a glittering sword in his hand.
It was his prerogative to give the word of
command. Loud and incoherent ejacula-
tions, such as “a, te, a! te, a!” a signal
for them all to pull together. The wives
of the missionaries were idle spectators.
They had not as yet been invited to take
hold of the ropes. At length an old man
fastened on an extra rope and invited them
to help pull. We all stepped forward and
took hold of the rope with a will! It so
happened at that instant the vessel moved
for the first time. Loud acclamations re-
sounded, almost deafening, about the
strength of the “mau vahime papa,” (foreign
women.) For four successive days it was
moved a short distance each day. The
labor continued till the food was all con-
sumed; then the work was suspended to
cook more. We returned to our homes be-
fore the vessel was launched, those who
could not render important service.
	About the middle of May the schooner
Ravai was brought around to the village
where we lived. Great rejoicing was mani-
fest when she was seen under full sail.
She was anchored a mile and a half from
town. We all walked to the place and
went on board; sailed around till we were
opposite the town, and were taken to shore
in the small boat. Preparations had been
made for a voyage to Tahiti and the Chain
Islands. Mr. Grouard was appointed cap-

[Column 2]
tain and Mr. Alexander was first mate.
	Mr. Pratt and our eldest daughter took
passage on board the new ship Bavai. We
stood on the beach and saw her move off so
majestically, and we felt proud of her. The
native women who had sons on board, gone
for their first voyage, commenced weeping
and wringing their hands. We had not
thought of shedding tears till we heard
their cries. It is their custom thus to wail
and lament when a friend dies or goes to
sea. They wring their hands and tear their
hair, and make the most piteous lamenta-
tions. The Elders all left the Island except
Brother A. Hanks. He rem[-]ined to be
company for the families of the missionaries.
I expected to be very lonely, but, on the
contrary, we all enjoyed ourselves remark-
ably well.
			[To be continued.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting con-
vened July 22, 1899, in the 14th ward hall,
with Counselor Elizabeth Webb presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing “All is well.”
Prayer by Sister Sarah J. Cannon. Con-
tinued by singing, “Who are these arrayed
in white.” Minutes of previous meeting
read and approved.
	President Horne came in; said she
was necessarily late. She always liked to
be present at the opening, as all feel better
when they are present to take part in the
singing and prayer. Said she believed that
the Lord would help any one who would
make an effort to do her duty. There is no
progression unless we make an effort to do
what is required of us. We only stay here
a short time in this preparatory state, and
we receive blessings for what we ac-
complish. Said our work in the Relief
Society is more to the poor Saints, but we
never refuse to do good wherever we can.
It is our duty to know ourselves and teach
our children to know there is a God, and to
serve Him. Spoke of the simplicity of the
Gospel, and how easily it was understood.
Said she thought we all had cause to be
thankful to God for His goodness to us.
	Sister Emily Stevenson felt to rejoice in
the Gospel. She knew if we kept the com-
mandments of God, we would be saved in
His kingdom.
	Sister Mair said that a great many do
not know that this is the church of God,
but it is our duty to explain it to others.
	Sister Wilcox bore testimony that she
knew this was the truth, and she greatly
rejoiced in it.
	Sister Louie Stevenson said: “We are
sent upon the earth on missions, and it is
our duty to bear testimony to all with
whom we come in contact, if they ask for
such.”
	Sister Butterworth felt thankful that she
was one of the workers in this Church.
She had been a busy bee in the “Hive of
Deseret” for forty-five years. Spoke of the
duties of Latter-day Saints. Said: “We have
got the children of the earth to teach the
Gospel to, ourselves to save, our families to
raise and teach them correct principles, and
it behooves us to be very humble and
prayerful.” Testified that there are blessings
attached to the observance of the law of
tithing.
	The congregation sang, “The Spirit of
God like a fire is burning.”
	Sister Peterson knew that Joseph Smith
was a prophet of God, and she was pleased
to be numbered among the Saints.

[Column 2]
	Sister Sarah Bateman said she did not
wish to go away without bearing her testi-
mony. She always thanked the Lord that
she was permitted to mingle with the
Latter-day Saints and work in the Temple.
	Sister Smelie said she thanked the Lord
every day that she was brought into these
mountains—this home of refuge. Said the
Gospel was everything to her.
	Sister Peterson believed if we were faith-
ful and asked our Heavenly Father for
what we wanted, He would grant us all
that is for our good.
	A young sister in the congregation said
she was thankful she was born and raised a
Latter-day Saint, and that she was a mem-
ber of the Relief Society.
	Another sister said we should teach our
children true principles, and be prayerful,
that we may teach them to be Saints.
	Sister Pixton said if we do not put our
testimonies to a good use, God will not be
pleased. She wondered how many would
be ready if the call should come for us to go
out to meet the Bridegroom. It had been
taught to us to be prepared ever since the
days of Nauvoo. Spoke of the sorrow it is
to see our children marry outsiders and go
astray, as so many are doing at the present
time. Spoke of the necessity of doing the
work for the dead, and not idling our time
away.
	Sister Neal was glad to meet with the
sisters and receive the instructions she did
here. Said she was one of the members
when this society was first organized. Spoke
of the many testimonies God gives to His
daughters as well as His sons.
	Another sister bore testimony of the
truth of the work, and spoke of the duties
of those who wish to do work in the Temple.
	Sister Harriet A. Badger said she rejoiced
to be here and meet with these sisters. Felt
we had a great deal to do in a short time.
Knew we must learn to be kind to each
other and love each other.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde said she wondered
if we realized the value of testimony. She
thought it necessary that we should all be
witnesses to this great work. How thank-
ful the Prophet Joseph felt, and how he
was braced up when he had the three wit-
nesses to support him! Thought it neces-
sary for each to bear a testimony of the
Prophet Joseph to her children.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Bene-
diction by Counselor Elizabeth Webb.
				J. S. WOOLEY, Sec.


“WHEN, in 1857, Lord Salisbury married
his wife, he was plain Robert Cecil, twenty-
seven years old, a second son, with no im-
mediate prospect of succeeding to the Mar-
quisate. She was a daughter of a Judge of
the now extinct Court of Exchequer, Baron
Anderson, and older than her husband, but
a woman of great intellectual gifts as well
as personal attractiveness. The marriage
was distasteful to young Cecil’s father, and
for a long time he had to eke out a scanty
income by writing for newspapers, chiefly
the Saturday Review. The death of his
elder brother in 1865 permitted him to as-
sume the courtesy title of Lord Cranborne,
and that of his father, in 1868, made him
Marquis of Salisbury. The lineal des-
cendant of Queen Elizabeth’s Cecil, Lord
Burleigh, has proved himself worthy of his
distinguished ancestor, and is the foremost
of living British statesmen.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


TO SISTER ELIZABETH STEVENSON.
Blessed are they that mourn for they shall be 
comforted.

	Courage, brave soul, they grief allay!
		Though life seems dark and drear,
	It is not so, to cheer thy way
		The angels hover near.

	We know thou'st drunk the bitter cup,
		Aye, drained it o'er and o'er;
	But thou hast laid thy treasures up,
		Where sorrows are no more.

	And thou art faithful; thou art true;
		As years roll swiftly by,
	E'en this great grief thou wilt not rue,
		Nor pain, nor tear, or sigh.

	And, O, thou art so greatly blessed,
		Great joy should fill thine heart,
	That thou art given through righteousness,
		In His great work a part.

	Yea, even that thy voice is heard
		In Zion's stakes afar,
	Proclaiming by thy deeds and word
		The Christ—our guiding star. 

	And couldst thou ask a greater boon,
		Than—called by love divine—
	To work for those beyond the tomb?
		O, what a lot is thine!

	That God will give thee light and trust
		According to they need—
	Thou knowest all His ways are just—
		Thy sisters can but plead.

	Blessed are they that mourn, He said,
		And blessed are the pure;
	In me they shall be comforted,
		My word is strong and sure.”
					RUTH M. FOX.
July 7, 1899


SEND DOWN THY TRUTH.
	(Sung at the Women's Council Arbitration
meeting, London, June 27.)
	Send down Thy truth, O God!
		Too long the shadows frown,
	Too long the darkened way we’ve trod:
		Thy truth, O Lord, send down!

	Send down Thy love, Thy life,
		Our lesser lives to crown,
	And cleanse them of their hate and strife:
		Thy living love send down!

	Send down Thy peace, O Lord!
		Earth’s bitter voices drown
	In one deep ocean of accord:
		Thy peace, O God, send down!
							E. R. SILL.


THE AGE OF GOLD. 
(Sung at Women’s Arbitration meeting, June 27.)

	The God that to the fathers
		Revealed His holy will
	Has not the world forsaken;
		He’s with the children still.
	They envy not the twilight
		That glimmered on their way;
	Look up and see the dawning
		That broadens into day.

	’Twas but far off, in vision,
		The father’s eye could see 
	The glory of the kingdom- 
		The better time to be,
	Today we see fulfilling
		The dreams they dreamt of old;
	While nearer, ever nearer,
		Rolls on the age of gold!

	With trust in God’s free spirit-
		The ever broadening ray.
	Of truth that shines to guide us
		Along our forward way-
	Let us today be faithful,
		As were the brave of old,
	Till we their work completing,
		Bring in the age of gold! 
					M. I. SAVAGE.


MARRIAGE OF MISS E. W. SEARS. 
	At the residence of the bride’s parents,
Hon. and Mrs. S. W. Sears, Thorndike, 
East Waterloo, on Friday at high noon, (12
M.) Miss Emilie W. Sears was mar-
ried to Mr. John Gillette Roberts, of In-
dianapolis, Indiana. The ceremony was 
performed by the Rev. I. Elmer Goshen. The 
wedding was a very quiet one, only mem-
bers of the family being present and one or 
two friends, visitors from Janesville, Wis-
consin.
	The house was beautifully decorated,
the windows and mantlepiece of the parlor, 
where the ceremony took place, were banked
with ferns and palms, brightened with nas-
turtiums of the most charming varieties;
the library was fragrant with lovely roses 
of all shades of color; the hall was deco-
rated with long-stemmed, old-fashioned
hollyhocks, and the dining room, where 
the wedding breakfast was served immedi-
ately after the marriage, was filled in 
every available place with the daintiest-
colored and sweetest of sweet peas. The 
bride wore a gray “going away gown,” with 
white silk waist, and carried a large bouquet 
of exquisite delicate roses, and a dainty 
ivory fan. 
	The newly wedded pair left Salt Lake 
City early the following morning on a wed-
ding tour to New York, Chicago and a 
number of large cities in the East, and 
were given a brilliant reception at the 
residence of the bridegroom’s parents, in 
Indianapolis, while enroute.
	The bride is well known in Salt Lake 
City, and familiarly to those who visit this 
office, as she has assisted here occasionally 
during the last few years and at times con-
tinuously, in the absence of the editor. 
	Mr. Roberts, the bridegroom, taught 
Mathematics in the High school in this city, 
but left here two years ago to accept a more 
remunerative position in Detroit, Michigan, 
where the young people expect to reside, for 
the present, at least. 
	Mr. Roberts is an electrical engineer, and 
is superintendent of the chemical department 
of the Detroit Switchboard Telephone and
Constructing Company, and is reputed to 
be one of the most expert men in his line of 
business in the country. 
	May every blessing desirable for the at-
tainment of complete happiness be showered 
upon these young people just entering, as 
it were, the portals of a new life; and may 
their union prove a happy and prosperous 
one in all that will bring true success in 
the future, both in this life and that which 
is to come. 
	The EXPONENT extends most sincere 
and heartfelt congratulations to Mr. and 
Mrs. Roberts, and trusts the future may 
be fraught with such rich and happy influ-
ences, that their days may flow on smoothly 
and scarce a pebble disturb the waves of 
the ocean of life, over which they glide 
ever onward.

And love is best, pure love without alloy, 
	Of all the blessings and the mercies given;
It brings the sweetest bliss, the highest joy 
	And gives us faith and hope that lights to 
		Heaven.
Dear “Emmie” may your star of love be bright 
	To guide through every mist and every storm;
May showers to prove thy faith be only light 
	And blessed sunshine after cheer and warm. 
									E. B. W.


JEALOUSY is the greatest enemy to
[-]rotherhood.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	THE Relief Society Conference of this
Stake of Zion, will convene in the Assem-
bly Hall, Saturday, September 2, 1899,
meetings commencing at 10 a. m. and 2 p.
m. It is confidently expected there will be
a large representation from all branches of
the Stake.
	WEDNESDAY evening, August 30, a
lawn party was given at Mrs. Amelia F.
Young’s residence, by her niece, Miss Hat-
tie Wallace to the Young Ladies Chorus
conducted by Madame Swenson, the leader
and teacher of about forty young ladies.
The grounds were prettily decorated with
flags and bunting, and lighted profusely
with every variety of Chinese lanterns,
which, among the trees and heavy foliage,
gave the place a fairy-like appearance, the
bright young girls in soft, airy summer cos-
tumes, many in white, and a few in bright
colors, flitting about here and there, added
greatly to the beauty of the scene, and with
their merry conversation and the delightful
arrangement of the entire affair, gave one
that charming sense of rest in recreation
that is so helpful to those who grow weary
with daily toil and need some sort of
change. There were a number of young
gentlemen present, by invitation, for of
course the girls must have escorts, and we
noticed one or two, perhaps three, of the
volunteers who recently returned from
Manilla. The tables were spread under
the shade of the trees, with dainty refresh-
ments and decorated with a variety of
lovely flowers and viewing the occupants
from available nooks here and there, the
effect was very pretty. Mrs. Young and
her two sisters, Mrs. Wallace and Mrs.
Brown, and a few other matronly women,
including Mrs. Adams, of Parowan, (whose
daughters were among the chorus) seemed
to enjoy the party as much as the younger
people. The evening was beautiful, the
sky clear and the stars brilliant, and every-
thing seemed propitious to the happy oc-
casion.


REUNION AT SALTAIR.
	A pleasant remembrance in the minds of
the U. W. P. C. is the successful reunion
held at Saltair, Thursday, July 12, 1899.
	The members and friends boarded the
4:15 p. m. train, arriving at the beach in
ample time for a dip in the lake. Those
not caring to venture in the water, set the
banquet table, which fairly groaned under
its weight of tempting viands.
	The absence of our esteemed Honorary
President, Mrs. E. B. Wells, who was in
England, was keenly felt.
	At 8:15 p. m. the club returned home,
extending a vote of thanks to the committee
in charge and many good wishes for the
success of the U. W. P. C. 
			AIMEE C. SCHILLER.


FREEDOM.
	I care not who were vicious back of me,
	No shadow of their sins on me is shed
My will is greater than heredity,
	I am no worm to feed upon the dead.

My face, my form, my gestures and my voice,
	May be reflections from a race that was.
But this I know, and knowing it, rejoice,
	I am myself a part of the Great Cause. 

I am a spirit! Spirit would suffice,
	If rightly used, to set a chained world free.
Am I not stronger than a mortal vice
	That crawls the length of some ancestral tree?
				ELLA WHEELER WILCOX.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah,
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months.
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUG 15, & SEP. 1, 1899.


[Column 1]
A SPIRITUAL AWAKENING.
	During the summer the visits made in
the several Stakes of Zion by the First
Presidency and Apostles of the Church
and the sisters who have traveled with
them, must have caused quite a spiritual
awakening among the people. Meetings
where the spirit of the Lord has been
poured out in rich abundance, have been
reported from time to time in the daily
papers; and those abroad in other lands, as
well as those at home in Zion, have taken
note of these proceedings and are not un-
mindful of the results which must necessa-
rily follow such special teaching and preach-
ing of the commandments of the Lord.
Naturally a more strict observance of the
law of tithing, of keeping the Sabbath day
holy, the Word of Wisdom and training of
the youth of Zion in paths of virtue and
holiness will follow, and thereby will
come a blessing upon all the interests of
the Saints upon the earth.
	The work is hastening on; the mission-
aries abroad in the world are busy sowing
good seed wherever opportunities can be
made. Distributing tracts from house to
house is done by both men and women
missionaries; also preaching in the public
parks and elsewhere in the open air.
Young women have left good homes, and
some of them who were receiving liberal
salaries for teaching in schools and academ-
ies, to labor in spreading the Gospel in
foreign lands, not for honor, nor the sake
of any remuneration in this world, but that
they might be instrumental in helping on
the cause of truth, which will eventually
redeem mankind from sin.
	The writer rejoiced while in England in
hearing these true and earnest young wom-
en bearing testimony to the knowledge ob-
tained through the Holy Spirit, which
leads into all truth. Such testimony only
comes through humility, prayer and faith-
fulness, and it brings a peace that passeth
understanding.
	Mrs. Lettie Dewey Campbell, Miss Inez
Knight, Miss Zina Chipman, Miss Joseph-
ine Booth, Miss Clara Holbrook, these
young sisters, and also Mrs. Lydia D.
Alder, are all engaged as missionaries, as
laborers in the field, devoting themselves
wholly and solely to the spread of righteous- 
ness and correct principles, giving freely of
that which is more precious than the wealth
of the world.
	The Elders, who without purse or scrip
are proclaiming the everlasting Gospel in

[Column 2]
all parts of the earth, even upon the islands
of the sea, and these with the hundreds of
Home missionaries throughout the several
Stakes of Zion, in the Rocky mountain
region, must certainly arouse greater zeal
and enthusiasm, and make an impression
that cannot be erased on the minds and
hearts of the honest in heart wherever their
lot may be cast. Although there are many
people inclined to scepticism, yet there are
still others who are looking for something
higher and more satisfying than they can
find among the theories heretofore extant
in the world; and occasionally these honest
seekers for truth are found, one here and
another there, and are convinced of divine
revelation to the people in this dispensation
through a prophet sent of God as in days of
old. “Blessed are they who know the
voice of the Good Shepherd,” and are will-
ing to leave all and follow Him.
	The persecution that has been aroused in
our own country, “the land of the free and
the home of the brave,” is most lamentable,
and one cannot but recall the words of the
Savior in contemplating the situation: “It
must needs be that offences come, but woe
be to him by whom they come.” But his-
tory has proven repeatedly that “the blood
of the martyrs is the seed of the Church.”
And there is no doubt of the truth of the
scripture, “Surely the wrath of man shall
praise thee; the remainder of wrath shalt
thou restrain.”


[Column 1]
HOME AGAIN. 
	After a rather prolonged trip abroad for a
busy woman, here we are at the desk again,
everything just as if we had only been
absent a few hours. It is very pleasant to
return home and find one’s family all in
good health, and, in the case of the writer,
to find an addition of a fine pair of twin
boys to the numerous grandchildren, was a
very happy surprise on reaching New York.
A marriage in the family, too, was one of
the surprises to greet our arrival, and alto-
gether only joyful news and occurrences to
greet one and cheer the home-coming.
	To recount the happenings, and even the
principal events of a journey of nearly
three months, is a puzzle; but to one attend-
ing such meetings as the International
Council and Congress of Women in Lon-
don, the official receptions and parties, and
trips here and there, it is utterly impossible
to satisfy one’s self in the least degree.
However, to be able to report good health
and no accidents by land or sea, is in itself
something to rejoice over and to be exceed-
ingly thankful for.
	There were a number of Utah women in
England, all of whom had reached there at
an earlier date than the writer. Some of
them had gone to labor as missionaries,
some on business or pleasure, and others to
attend the International Council and Con-
gress. These were Mrs. Susa Young
Gates, Mrs. Lucy B. Young, Mrs. Eliza-
beth C. McCune, Mrs. M, A. Caine, Mrs.
C. S. Thomas, Miss C. Holbrook and Mrs. L.
D. Alder; the last named has also remained
to do missionary work. The entire journey,
from leaving Salt Lake until the return
home, has been full of interesting occasions
and rich in all that helps to make one’s
time pass happily and “fly, as it were, on
the wings of the wind.”
	At the opening of the Quinquennial on
the afternoon of Monday, June 26, it was
found that the Large Hall, Westminster
Town Hall, would not hold those entitled

[Column 2]
to be present, therefore the crowd was in-
structed to wend its way to Convocation
Hall, Church House, Deanery, Westmins-
ter Abbey, and the International Council
was formally opened in that historic build-
ing  by the Countess of Aberdeen with an
address of welcome, which we hope to pub-
lish in full at some future time. It was a
very able paper, and seemingly touched
upon every subject pertaining to the work
of the Council in the past and suggestions
for future advancement.
	After the address came the introduction
of International officers and the Presidents
of Federated National Councils, which in-
cluded many foreign countries: The United
States, by Mrs. Fannie Humphreys Gaff-
ney, of New York; Canada, Mrs. Boomer;
Germany, Frau Anna Simson; Sweden,
Fru Hierta Retzius; Great Britain and Ire-
land, The Lady Battersea; New South
Wales, The Viscountess Hampden; Den-
mark, Froken Henrie Forschammer; Hol-
land, Madame Klerck von Hogendorp;
New Zealand, Mrs. Pember Reeves.
	Other countries who have signified the
intention of federating with the Inter-
national Council were represented by fra-
ternal delegates, but had no vote. The
only voters (proper) were the officers of the
International Council and Presidents of
National Councils already federated; not
even delegates duly elected had votes.
The countries thus represented were France,
Switzerland, Belgium, Italy, Russia, Aus-
tria, Norway, Victoria, South Australia,
West Australia, Queensland, Cape Colony,
Tasmania, India, Persia, Argentine Re-
public of South America, China and Pales-
tine. Delegates from societies internation-
ally organized (present, but without a vote)
Bureau International Permanent de la Paix;
Federation Abolitioniste Ginirole; Union
Internationale des Ames des Jennes Filles;
World’s Women’s Christian Temperance
Union; World’s Young Women’s Christian
Association; International Union of Press
Clubs; International Order of King’s
Daughters.
	Each person introduced had about five
minutes in which to speak for the country
and Council she represented. This occu-
pied the entire meeting of the afternoon.
The day was very hot and the hall was
crowded. Many distinguished people were
present, both in the seats below and the
front seats in the galleries above. Madame
Von Finklestein Mountford represented the
country of Palestine, where there are as yet
really no organizations of women, but
where it is hoped such like institutions may
soon be established, and also in India,
China and Persia.
	The official reception of the Duchess of
Sutherland at Stafford House was held the
same evening, Monday, June 26, from 9 p.
m. to 12, and was certainly in every par-
ticular a royal entertainment. The house
is one of the richest in architecture and in
all its appointments of finishings and furn-
ishings, which are indescribable. The en-
trance hall is famous throughout England
and is of solid white marble with marble
staircases on either side that cross the upper
hall and are finished with elaborate brass
balustrades. Seated on the wide staircase
at the top of the front opening to the gal-
lery on either side, were four of the most
beautiful women of rank and title. First,
the Countess of Aberdeen; next her, the
Duchess of Sutherland, and farther on to
the right, the Countess of Warwick and her
sister. All these grand ladies we had the


[Column 1]
opportunity of meeting and of being wel-
comed by them most cordially as members 
of the Council.
	Afterwards we passed up the grand stair-
way to the drawing room and other apart-
ments opened for the reception, and passed
where the Hungarian band were discours- 
ing the most exquisite music one could
imagine, which floated thro’ these elegant 
halls, diffusing melody such as is seldom
heard except by the most highly favored of 
the world.
	There were a small number of ladies
whom we had met before, Miss Anthony,
who is always lovely and gracious to her
friends, and Mrs. Sewall, Dr. Shaw, Mrs.
Bedford Fenwick and Mrs. Fenwick Miller
(these two ladies we had been acquainted
with at the Woman’s Congress in Chicago)
and quite a number of others. Mrs. Char-
lotte Perkins Stetson, the grandniece of
Henry Ward Beecher, whom we had met
in Des Moines, Iowa, and who is certainly
one of the brightest women of this nine-
teenth century; who is always sweet and
charming, and who really seemed to take
extra pains for some of our Utah party.
Recently her book on the Economic ques-
tion is attracting world-wide attention, al-
though by many severely criticised. Mrs.
Stetson is a forcible speaker, and also a
brilliant and intellectual writer. She in-
tends visiting Salt Lake City in the near 
future.
	There is not time or space to describe
Stafford House or the wonderful paintings
and banquet, but some time we may per-
haps make separate articles of these great
palaces we have seen and where we have
been entertained.
	Lady Battersea’s reception at Surrey
House was in many respects similar to that
of Stafford House; but at Surrey we were
received by Lord and Lady Battersea, and
it is not the custom, as in America, to be
introduced and passed down a long line of
distinguished people.
	Perhaps in giving the public gatherings 
and entertainments tendered to the Council,
we ought to have mentioned first of all the
informal reception given by the Countess of
Aberdeen on Saturday afternoon, June 24,
previous to the opening of the Council.
This was a very pleasant way of having
the delegates and speakers meet each other,
and a very graceful thing on her part, to
bring the ladies into a sort of friendly inter-
course Here we met several ladies we had 
previously known, in closer proximity than 
at the great receptions afterwards, as we
were fewer in number, and as the affair
was given in the “Members’ Mansions,”
which had been engaged for Council pur-
poses. On this occasion the Countess re- 
ceived alone, and stood on her feet for
about three hours. In looking back over
the entire time of this great gathering of
women from all parts of the world, we are
of the opinion that she was more thought-
ful and more considerate in providing for 
the well-being, comfort and entertainment
of members of the Council, than anybody 
could have imagined, or even desired. If
she does not have an attack of nervous
prostration after all is over, one would be
inclined to believe she had been given
superhuman strength.
	The next great reception was at Fulham 
Palace, the residence of the Lord Bishop of
London and his intellectual and accomplished
wife, Mrs. Creighton, who was one of the 
ablest women of the International Council,
and one who was instrumental in bringing

[Column 2]
about the success of the great undertaking
which brought the women of all civilized
lands together on one platform to discuss
the greatest and most momentous questions
of the day.
	Fulham Palace is very antique in ap-
pearance, and reminds one of the past cen-
turies; it is in the very atmosphere of the
house and grounds, though it is kept in ex-
cellent repair, and there have been, doubt-
less, many changes and improvements made
from time to time, yet one feels the sacred-
ness that pertains to ancient cathedrals,
and places where holy men have lived and
served and dispensed their learned lore, or
wisdom, such as is not vouchsafed to any
except those who devote their lives to the
great divine Master. It is impossible for
the writer to put upon paper in a few words
the emotions experienced while roaming
about under the shade of the trees centuries
old, and contemplating the scenes that must
have been enacted and events that had
transpired during the years that had flown
since the house and surroundings had been
occupied by Bishops and their curates and
rectors. At some future time we hope to
devote an article to our impressions of Ful-
ham Palace.
	On Monday, July 3, the Society of
American Women in London entertained
officers and members of the Council at a
luncheon and reception. The president,
Mrs. Griffin, Mrs. De Freise and Mrs. Fay
received the guests in elegant private par-
lors at Hotel Cecil, and the stars and stripes
were specially noticable in the draping and
decorating. Delicious refreshments were
handsomely served; but more of this here-
after.
	Tuesday afternoon, July 4, a garden
party was given by Lady Rothschild and
Mrs. Leopold de Rothschild, at Gunnersbury
Park, an elegant residence and park grounds
in the suburbs of London, where every-
thing was on the grandest scale imaginable;
indeed the papers said it was the most elab-
orate affair of its kind ever given in Lon-
don, certainly beyond any description the
writer will be able to give, such places
must be seen to be appreciated. At this re-
ception there were perhaps half of the Utah
ladies present. Lady Rothschild and her
daughter-in-law, Mrs. Leopold de Roths-
child, received and welcomed the guests on
their arrival, and every possible variety of
amusement had been provided in the
grounds, and refreshments were served in
the house during the entire afternoon. The
whole affair suggested wealth, luxuriance
of grandeur and beauty, and the greatest
hospitality and cordiality possible to ex-
press.
	The Countess of Warwick gave a garden
party and entertainment at her Hostel at
Reading, on the afternoon of July 5, which
was one of the most interesting occasions
we had the opportunity of participating in.
The guests spent the time in listening to
addresses in the garden, under the magnifi-
cent shade trees, by the Countess herself,
Lady Georgina Vernon and some titled
gentlemen, all upon practical subjects per-
taining to education and Reading College.
Tents were placed in near proximity where
refreshments were served, as also in the
house itself, which was very unique in all
its arrangements. After the exercises and
some social conversation, the grounds ad-
jacent were visited by the guests, and a few
of the ladies, accompanied by one of the
Professors from the College, visited the in-
stitution and went over almost the entire

[Column 3]
building. Reading College is built on the
site of an old abbey, and one part of it is
composed of the old abbey and cloisters.
	The Countess of Aberdeen, among other
social functions, gave a breakfast to all
officially connected with the Council, in
the private banqueting hall of the West-
minster Palace Hotel, and presented an ad-
dress of welcome to which one of the Ger-
man ladies responded in behalf of the
foreign delegates, and Dr. Stevenson, of
Chicago, for the United States, mentioning
especially that it was the 4th of July, In-
dependence day. Lord Aberdeen also had
a few words to say. Lady Marjorie Gor-
don assisted her mother at the breakfast,
which was a successful social function.
	The Countess also gave a Farewell, re-
ception at the Royal Institute of Water Col-
ors at the close of the session of the Coun-
cil. After issuing a thousand invitations,
some two or three hundred more were sent out,
it was a most eleborate entertainment. Lady
Marjorie assisted her mother in receiving,
and no one could doubt their desire to make
all happy, when they could stand an entire
evening and welcome each of the hundreds
of guests personally. The refreshments
were delicious, and served after the most
hospitable fashion. The water colors,
though of the finest one could imagine,
were lost sight of by many who preferred
living beauty in artistic costume. Really
the portraits on the walls, and the living
pictures that were moving about hither and
thither, flitting from room to room, were
brought into a sort of rivalry by the art
loving connoisseurs. The Countess spared
no pains or sacrifice to make every one hap-
py; she really gave herself for the time
being to the Council without limitation.
The women of the world are greatly in-
debted to the self-sacrifice of this philan-
thropic, heroice gentlewoman, who, with-
out display of ceremony, but with the true
instinct of royalty, devoted her valuable
time and magnificent talents to those who
came from afar, and like the Queen of Sheba
we can say, “the half had not been told.”
	The visit to Windsor Castle was entirely
due to her tact, influence and thoughtful-
ness. This visit has been described
by so many, that one scarcely feels to go
into detail; but Her Majesty, Queen Vic-
toria, cannot have too much said in her
praise as a woman, a mother and a sover-
eign of a great empire. It was most
gracious and lovely of the Queen of a great
realm on which the sun never sets, to favor
the delegation of the International Council
with Her Majesty’s presence in person, and
the ladies manifested their appreciation in
smiles and bows and waving their handker-
chiefs and singing in chorus, “God Save
the Queen.”
	The tea afterwards in St. George’s Hall,
where every appointment of the table was
significant of royalty, might well have been
called a banquet, so elaborate were the
preparations and so elegant the service.
	It was a fitting close to the great Inter-
national gathering of women of all lands,
that they should pay their respects to Her
Majesty, who in her life, public and pri-
vate, has been the embodiment of the high-
est and noblest qualities of true woman-
hood, a fitting example to the race. Dur-
ing the reign of this wonderful Queen much
has been done in forwarding the cause of
woman along various lines of learning, art
and science, and several special orders have
been introduced for the distinction of illus-
trious ladies. The profession of nursing


has been established on a permanent basis,
and great good has been the result of the
Queen’s sanction and assistance. Many
gateways have been opened whereby gentle
women (who have not fortunes at their
disposal) can obtain independent liveli-
hoods; altogether Her Majesty has proved
her desire to promote the best interests for
the happiest advance in the position of
women in the Victorian era.
	At a subsequent time we will mention
other receptions we had the privilege of
attending and some of the celebrated peo-
ple to whom we were introduced, also our
visits to Paris and Versailles, in France;
Liverpool, Birmingham, Manchester and
Nottingham, Warwick, Kenilworth, Leam-
ington and Cambridge, Stratford on Avon
and other notable places in England; and
Edinboro and Glasgow in Scotland.
	We have been asked many times both in
England and since our return to America,
what the outcome of this great Congress of
women from all lands will be, or what
great achievements will be the ultimate re-
sults? It is almost too soon to estimate
the gains that may accrue, but it is only
reasonable to suppose that a better under-
standing of the conditions of women in all
parts of the world, and, therefore, greater
success for any common or special cause.
That greater love and charity will prevail
among womankind cannot be doubted,
when such a fraternal feeling is fostered
and cherished as that which prevailed so
largely during the entire sessions of the
Council and Congress. Ultimately a great
federation of the sisterhood of the world
will come to pass by means of the processes
now at work, and that will mean for all
the world a higher type of civilization.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LAYING OF CORNER STONE.
KEARN’S ST. ANN’S ORPHANAGE.
	The laying of the corner stone of the
Kearn’s St. Ann’s Orphanage, marks an
epcoh in the history of Utah of which all
loyal citizens may be justly proud; and it is
ardently desirable that other men and wom-
en, whom the Lord has blessed with
abundant means, may follow the noble ex-
ample thus given by Mr. and Mrs. Thomas
Kearns, who made it possible to establish
more permanently this charitable institu-
tion founded some time since by Bishop
Scanlan and the devoted Catholic ladies
and Sisters of Charity, by giving to St.
Ann’s Orphanage an edifice to which has
been appropriately added their name. The
building will be a very handsome one
when completed, and stands upon a large
plat of ground sufficient for its needs in the
way of play-grounds and other purposes.
	The ceremonies of laying the corner
stone were conducted by the Right Rev.
Bishop L. Scanlan, assisted by Vicar-Gen-
eral Dennis Kiely, under the waving stars
and stripes, and were of a very interesting
character. The exercises opened with
singing the hymn “Nearer my God to
Thee,” by the children’s choir, Miss Clara
Folek singing the solo. Then the corner
stone was laid by Bishop Scanlan, assisted
by Vicar General Kiely. The stone is
gray, three feet long and two wide. In
the box was placed a document containing
the following:
	The corner stone of the Kearn’s St. Ann’s
Orphanage, was laid on the 27th day of August,
1899, by the Right Rev. L. Scanlan; the supreme
pontiff at the time being Leo XIII.; the apostolic
delegate to the United States being Archbishop

[Column 2]
Sebastain Martinelli; the bishop of the diocese of
Salt Lake City being the Right Rev. L. Scanlan;
the President of the United States being William
McKinley; the Governor of the State of Utah
being Heber M. Wells, the Mayor of Salt Lake
City being John Clark; Utah’s representatives in
the Congress of the United States being Joseph L.
Rawlins, Senator, and Brigham H. Roberts, Con-
gressman.
	There has been deposited in this cavity: Copies
of the Salt Lake Tribune of August 27, 1899; the
Salt Lake Herald of August 27, 1899; the Deseret
Evening News of August 27, 1899, the Colorado
Catholic of August 26, 1899; a copy of the invita-
tion issued by the committee having in charge and
conducting the exercises of the laying of the corner
stone, and a copy of the program which was car-
ried out on this occasion. Coins of the United
States of the following values: One cent, a nickel,
a dime, twenty-five cents, a half dollar and a dol-
lar; a photograph of the Right Rev. L. Scanlan; a
photograph of Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Kearns and
children; a pamphlet, being a descriptive cata-
logue of the work of St. Mary’s academy, Salt
Lake City; a pamphlet, being a descriptive cata-
logue of the work of All Hallow’s college, Salt
Lake City.
	The contractors for the construction of the
orphanage are Marrion & Fielding.
	Salt Lake City, Utah, Aug. 27, 1899.
	The address of Bishop Scanlan was earn-
est, eloquent and tender, based upon the
familiar text found in the New Testament:
“Pure religion and undefiled before God
and the Father is this to visit the fatherless
and widows in their afflictions and to keep
himself unspotted from the world.” The
Bishop enlarged upon the subject of “What
means Christianity?” and especially applied
the scripture texts “What ye do unto the
least of these ye do unto me,” and “Love
thy neighbor as thyself;” also that man
was made in the image of God; he referred to
the writings of St. Augustine, in which he
said “No relationship is nearer than that
which exists between man and man.” The
whole discourse was exceedingly impressive
and might be studied as a lesson of divine
love and charity, it certainly could not fail
to produce good results. It is published in
full in the daily papers.
	After the address, Mrs. Sutton, of Park
City, sang with organ accompaniment,
“The Holy City,” and Governor H. M.
Wells delivered a brief and telling address,
in which he aptly included the text, “It is
more blessed to give than to receive.”
Hon. C. S. Varian then presented the
memorial trowel made from Silver King
bullion, to Mr. and Mrs. Kearns, the
founders of the edifice of which the corner
stone had just been laid. In Mr. Varian’s
speech he presented some facts in relation
to the struggles of the orphanage in the
past, and paid a high compliment to the
efforts of Bishop Scanlan and the Sisters of
Charity.
	Mr. Kearns responded with many affec-
tionate allusions to his wife and her desire
to endow such an institute, her devotion,
and that of the noble and self-sacrificing
Sisters of Charity, to motherless children,
and added on his own part, “Even in my
short life there was one bright moment, one
ray of sunshine when I wrote the check
that provided for them a home,” and al-
luding to the trowel, “In years to come
when mine eyes shall rest upon this little
treasure, it will remind me that shrouds
have no pockets, and true charity
knows no creeds, and while we enjoy the
luxuries of the world, that beneath this
roof, the Kearn’s St. Ann’s Orphanage,
must never sleep a hungry child.”
	Senator J. L. Rawlins made the closing
speech, which was a beautiful tribute to
heavenly charity, and the founders and
benefactors of the home. He expressed

[Column 3]
the wish, and thought that “others would
be led to cast their bread upon the waters,
and thus dedicate a portion of their wealth
to so good a cause.”
	The exercises concluded by singing the
national hymn, “America,” in which the
choir and audience joined.


RAISING MULBERRY TREES.
AN EXCELLENT REPORT FROM WAYNE CO.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:
	Thinking it might interest you and our
beloved president, Zina D. H. Young, to
know of our success in planting mulberry
trees and cuttings this last spring, and as
myself and counselors have recently visited
the southeast part of our Stake, I will tell
you of our beginning in the good work.
	Torrey Relief Society owns a city lot of
an acre and a quarter, and they have
planted seventy, three-year old trees from the
Salt Lake nursery, and about one thousand
yearling trees and cuttings.
	Caineville Relief Society has a city lot.
They planted out fifty, three-year old trees,
and four hundred yearlings and cuttings.
	Giles Relief Society also owns a lot, which
is not yet fenced. Brother White has planted
out on his own premises, one thousand cut-
tings and four hundred yearling trees for
the Relief Society, when the sisters get
their city lot fenced. He has twenty large
mulberry trees, ten years old, around his
home. I asked Sister White, who is presi-
dent of the Giles Relief Society, to make a
start next spring to feed silk worms. She said
she would give it a trial. We also distribu-
ted over one hundred yearling trees to
some friends in that part, which are all
growing nicely.
	Our efforts have been blessed in this
direction. Most of the trees planted have
grown and made good progress. We intend
to double our efforts next spring in plant-
ing out mulberry trees. We advised
some of the sisters to plant half an acre or
more on their own homesteads, and told
them that in time it would be a profitable
investment; besides it was an obligation
placed upon the sisters to make a success of
this enterprise. We have offered to furnish
young trees to those who cannot buy and
who will care for them, that we may get
this industry started.
	We had a very pleasant time holding
meetings, talking up this subject and get-
ting the brethren and sisters interested in
our labors. The Bishops attended our
meetings, and felt to extend a helping
hand. They all expressed their apprecia-
tion of the labors of the Relief Society, which
is encouraging, for we like to have the appro-
bation of our brethren.
			Yours respectfully,
				JANE S. COLEMAN.


AN aged lady getting into a cab in Dub-
lin, said to the driver, “Help me in, my
good man, for I am very old!” “Begor,
ma’am,” said he, “no matter what age you
are you don’t look it.”
	A VILLAGE schoolmaster entering school
one morning, read on the blackboard the
words: “Our teacher is a donkey!”
The pupils expected nothing less than, a
cyclone or an earthquake; but the philo-
sophic pedagogue contented himself with
adding the word “driver,” and opened the
school as usual.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE OLD FOLKS REMEMBERED.
	The first old folks’ day in Bingham Stake
was celebrated in an agreeable manner
at Brother Joseph Rich’s grove, he having
kindly offered the same for the occasion.
There not being many very old people here,
the age was put at forty-five, and every one
of that age, or over, was invited. Consider-
ing that it was harvest time, and a very
busy time, and near the Twenty-fourth
celebration, there was a pretty good atten-
dance.
	We were entertained with plenty of good
music from the Willow Creek band at the
commencement; then followed a hymn and
prayer, speeches, songs and recitations.
	Bishop Jardine in his remarks alluded to
the vast difference in our number now and
when he came here, the Saints at that time
being few and far between. When the
first ward was organized the first tithing
paid amounted to two dollars; now it
amounts to one thousand dollars.
	In the afternoon we had a short program,
after which they danced; and though I
know little about dancing, I very much en-
joyed seeing them, especially the dance
they call “Grand French Four.” Sister
Clark, I believe, received the prize for the
best step dancer.
	After the dance Brother Bybee inquired
who was the oldest brother on the platform,
and we found that Brother Williamson was.
He was awarded a cane, and the oldest sis-
ter, Abigail Campbell, received a rocking-
chair. Brother Bybee then asked the oldest
sister who had never had her ears pierced
to come forward. She was Sister Stokes,
and was promised a breast-pin. Then
Brother Bybee inquired who had given
birth to the most children. Sister M. L.
Bybee was the lady, having had fifteen chil-
dren. I believe her prize was a lamp.
	Every one went home looking happy.
We separated hoping to meet again next
year, and that none of the dear faces will be
missing.
				LITTLE SISTER.


[Column 1]
OBITUARY.
MARTHA V. STEINER.
	Died, June 6, 1899, at her residence in San
Diego, Califo[-]nia, of typhoid fever, Martha V.
Steiner, aged forty-one years.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, an Alwise and Overruling Providence
has seen fit to call from this sphere of action, our
respected sister and friend, Martha V. Steiner;
and
	Whereas, she having proven herself an ener-
getic and faithful member of the M. I. A., and
a capable and efficient officer, having served as
secretary of said association, be it
	RESOLVED, That we truly appreciate her efforts
in the past, and the noble generosity of her nature,
which has often ministered to those in need; and,
be it further
	RESOLVED, That we truly mourn her loss and re-
gret her absence, and that we extend the hand of
sympathy to those whom her death has bereaved;
and, be it further
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
added to the M. I. A. record, a copy be furnished
the bereaved family, and one sent to the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT for publication.
						RHODA C. NASH.
	In behalf of the M. I. A. of San Diego, Califor-
nia.
IN THE MEMORY OF THE LATE SUSAN MAUDE VELLE
FAIRBANKS.
	Sister Fairbanks was born September 23, 1819,
in Bergen county, New Jersey, and died March 2,
1899. She became a member of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, February 2, 
1843 at Bergen, New Jersey, arrived in Salt

[Column 2]
Lake valley August 28, 1848, and moved to Pay-
son in the year 1851. She was the mother of thir-
teen children, ten of whom are how living,
seven sons and three daughters and a number of
grandchildren. Her husband died in 1895. She
was a faithful and energetic worker in the Relief
Society, being one of the early pioneers, having
passed through those trying scenes in the early
history of the Church, and also the hardships of
the settlement in this country. She bore her trials
with patience and fortitude and was always cheer-
ful. Her mind was bright and intelligent, she
was well informed on all leading topics, and she
was pleasant in conversation.
	Sister Fairbanks was a faithful Latter-day
Saint and has made a good record. She has gone
to her rest as a veteran in the church of God, and
as such will receive the reward of the faithful.
The funeral services were held in the Payson
tabernacle, Sunday, March 5, 1899. A large cor-
tege followed the remains to the cemetery.
			ANN PICKERING, Pres.
			JANE WORSENCROFT, Asst. Sec.
	First Ward Relief Society, Payson.
LAURA ALATHEA GARDNER.
	It becomes our painful duty to again record the
death of one of our faithful sisters, Sister Laura
Alathea Gardner, who died at Afton, Uintah
Co., Wyoming, (where she had gone for her health)
July 10, 1899. She was attended during her last
illness by her husband, one son, one daughter and
numerous relatives and friends.
	Her remains were brought to West Jordan, Salt
Lake Co., Utah, where the funeral was held July
14th. The body was taken to the Salt Lake City
cemetery for interment.
	The funeral was largely attended, and the
principal speakers were Presidents Angus M. Can-
non and Joseph E. Taylor, who dwelt upon the
many virtues and faithfulness of the deceased.
	Sister Laura Alathea Gardner was born August
3, 1834, at Alexandria, N. Y., and crossed the
plains to Utah in 1850. Married Archibald Gard-
ner March 3, 1852. She was the mother of eleven
children, eight sons and three daughters. Her
husband, four sons, two daughters and numerous
grandchildren survive her.
	She has always been a faithful member of the
Relief Society. When the branch in West Jordan
was organized in 1868, she was one of the first en-
rolled. In February, 1869, she was chosen presi-
dent, which office she held until the 12th of Decem-
ber, 1880, when she moved to Taylorsville.
	On July 6, 1891, Sister Gardner having moved
back to West Jordan, was chosen second counselor
to Sister Agnes Cutler, and subsequently the ward
was divided and Sister Agnes was in East Jordan.
The West Jordan Relief Society was reorganized
on January 13, 1896, and she was chosen first
counselor to President Marinda Bateman, which
office she held at the time of her death.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, our Heavenly Father in His wisdom
has seen fit to call from our midst, on the 10th of 
July, A. D. 1899,  our beloved counselor, Laura
Alathea Gardner, we, the members of the West
Jordan Relief Society, do feel to mourn her loss;
and we know that we have lost a counselor and
kind friend.
	RESOLVED, That we do cherish her memory and
put into practice her wise teachings, and strive to
be kind, patient and charitable as she always was,
and try, as she did, to comfort the distressed and 
encourage the erring to lead a better life.
	RESOLVED, That we sympathize with her aged
husband and sorrowing family; and we pray that
our Heavenly Father, with His holy spirit, will
heal the wound thus caused by the loss of a loving
wife and mother.
	RESOLVED, That we send a copy of these resolu-
tions to the bereaved family, one to the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT, and that one be kept and inserted in
our minutes, as a record of our beloved counselor
and kind friend.
				MARINDA BATEMAN, Pres.
				DELILA GARDNER, Sec.
MARY CAROLINE HART.
	Sister Mary Caroline Hart, daughter of Brother
Levi R. and Sister Harriet M. Hart was born Oct.
17, 1884, at Salt Lake City, Utah, and lived at
Thomas Fork, Bear Lake Co., Idaho, where she
resided at the time of her death, July 22, 1899.
	She has always been a very tender and loving
child, and most exemplary young lady, and was
dearly loved by all who knew her. She was a
faithful member of the Sunday School, and for
the last three years has taken an active part in the 
Relief Society. She leaves a father, mother and

[Column 3]
five brothers to mourn her loss, her brother James
being in Germany filling a mission at the time of
her death.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, our Father in Heaven, in His infinite
wisdom has seen fit to take from our midst one of
our esteemed sisters, Mary Caroline Hart, and 
	Whereas, in her demise we have lost a dear
friend and Latter-day Saint, therefore
	Resolved, That we, the officers and members of
the Thomas Fork Sunday School, do extend our
heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family in this
their hour of sorrow.
	Resolved, That we ever cherish her memory
and regard her virtues as worthy of emulation.
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be
presented to the bereaved family, one placed on
the records of the Sunday School and one sent to
the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publication.
	THOMAS FORK SUNDAY SCHOOL.


A PLEASANT BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION
	A social gathering of friends, children
and grandchildren met at the residence of
Sister Lucinda Brown, in honor of her
seventy-fourth birthday.
	After partaking of a most delicious din-
ner, and thanking our Father in heaven for
the same, an impromptu program was
rendered. President Willis E. Robison
kindly consented to take charge of the
guests.
	After an appropriate selection from
the hymn book had been sung by all,
Patriarch E. H. Blackburn spoke very
commendably in behalf of our beloved sis-
ter. In his remarks he said that if he had
his hands upon the head of Sister Brown,
he felt he could say she was accepted of the
Lord.
	Presidents H. M. Hanson and G. S. Bas-
tian dwelt upon the excellent traits of
character Sister Brown must have pos-
sessed to train and raise her children in the
fear of God without a husband’s assistance.
She was always ready and willing to com-
fort those who were despondent and sad,
and was a friend in very deed to all.
	“O my Father, Thou that dwellest”
was played upon the mandolin and guitar
by Miss Ella Hunt and Mr. Bennie Robison.
	Counselors Nancy Blackburn and Eliza-
beth C. Jeffrey, of the Relief Society,
spoke words of encouragement, and praised
Sister Brown for her true integrity.
	Beautiful and appropriate music was
rendered by her children, Bishop Brown
and wife and Mrs. Sheffield.
	President Robison thought reunions of
this nature promoted a feeling of love to
draw us together and to elevate and broad-
en our views in our sphere of usefulness.
He was pleased to be associated with a wom-
an like Sister Brown, who had fearlessly
stood in defence of the principles of truth,
taught her family the Gospel in its purity
and gone through many trials to serve the
Lord; and during the past twenty-five
years he knew she had sought the best
society, and was proud to have her for a
friend. Felt that her actions would meet
the reward of again being associated with
her husband, who has been dead for many
years.
	Sister Robison thanked all for the
great honor shown her; felt it was more
than she was worthy of. Asked God to
bless all those present; that they might do
good on the earth.
	President Robison read the following
verses:
Dear husband, my soul shall treasure thy request
And when the night of fever and unrest
Melts in the morning of Eternity,
Like a freed bird then  I will come to thee.


I will come to thee in the morning sweet!
I have been true and soul with soul shall meet
Before God’s throne, and shall not be afraid;
Thou gav’st me trust, and it was not betrayed.

I will come to thee in the morning dear!
The night is dark, I do not know how near
The morning may be of that eternal day;
I can but keep my faithful watch, and pray.

I will come to thee in the morning love!
Wait for me on the eternal heights above;
The way is troubled where my feet must climb
Ere I shall reach the mountain top sublime.

I will come in the morning, O, my own!
But for a time must grope my way alone,
Through tears and sorrow, till the day shall dawn
And I shall hear the summons and pass on.

I will come in the morning, rest secure!
My hope is certain and my faith is sure;
After the gloom and darkness of the night
I will come to thee in the morning light.”

	After singing “When shall we all meet
again,” and prayer by Counselor Jacob
Bastian, all returned home, feeling the day
had been well spent.
				SARAH A. ROBISON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.
MORGAN.
	The Relief Society conference of the
Morgan Stake convened in the Stake house,
August 3, 1899.
	Present on the stand were President
Lydia Rich and her counselors, President
Jane S. Richards, of Ogden, Sister Eliza-
beth Stevenson of Salt Lake City; also a
number of ward presidents. President
Richard Fry, of Morgan Stake, was also
present. 
	Morning session opened with singing 
and prayer, after which the statistical and
financial reports from five wards were read;
also the Stake report.
	Sisters Richards and Stevenson then
addressed the conference. They spoke on
the law of tithing, and bore strong testi-
mony to the truthfulness of it and of the
Gospel.
	Two p. m. After the usual exercises, 
five wards were reported: all were in
good condition.
	The speakers for the afternoon were
Counselors Webb and Tonks, and Sisters
Richards and Stevenson. The remarks of
the sisters were mostly on our home duties:
the training of children, keeping ourselves
pure, etc. They denounced the practice of
talking about our neighbors. 
	After singing, the meeting was dismissed
by Elder S. Francis.
				EMELINE WOOD, Sec.


U. W. P. C. 
	The regular monthly meeting of the U.
W. P. C. was held in the EXPONENT
office, Friday, June 30, 1899.
	The opening prayer was offered by Mrs. 
Ruth M. Fox, after which the secretary
called the roll, responses being given by 
quotations from Rudyard Kipling. 
	Mrs. A. M. Bradley, as representative of 
the Press Club, in behalf of the Federation
of Clubs, offered tickets to all for Field day 
at Saltair, Thursday, July 6th, the pro-
ceeds to be used for the free traveling
library.
	Mrs. Brown moved that the Press Club
spend a social day at Saltair, Thursday,
July 12th, which was seconded by Mrs. 
Fox: carried. Mrs. Aimee C. Schiller and 
Edith A Lovesy were appointed a commit-
tee of two to perfect all plans for the day.


A motion by Mrs. Bradley, seconded by
Mrs. Brown, that the club adjourn until
September, was carried.
	This being an evening with Kipling,
Mrs. I. Cameron Brown, the first on the
program, read a most interesting paper on
the life and poems of this well-known writ-
er. Mrs. Maria Francis followed with the
reading of one of Kipling’s masterpieces.
The latter was beautifully read, and proved
of great interest to all present. The pro-
gram closed with an interesting and care-
fully prepared paper on Current Events, by
Mrs. Rebecca H. Doolan.
	There being no further business, the
meeting adjourned.
			AIMEE C. SCHILLER, Sec.


NOTES.
	LADY SOMERSET is laboring to induce
London and other English cities to employ
matrons in police stations, after the fashion
of the United States.—Ex.
	No change of condition, be it ever so de-
sirable, can of itself change character, or
build up principle, or create virtue. And it
is upon these, after all, that we must de-
pend for real progress as well as for per-
manent happiness.
	ESTELLE REEL, U. S. Superintendent of
Indian Schools, in her annual report, says
that all the teachers among the Indians
agree that the solution of the problem of
Indian education lies in industrial training.
The studies that will enable the Indian lad
to earn an honest dollar by manual labor
are what he needs.—Ex.
	LADY GEORGINA VERNON, daughter of
the tenth Earl of Haddington, is well
known as an authority on dairying as an
occupation for women. She spent some
time in Normandy studying into French
methods of cheesemaking. She strongly
urges the practicability of dairying for
women as a self-supporting industry, but
says that cheese would be the most profit-
able branch of the work.—Ex.
	CLARA BARTON, president of the Red
Cross, has been visiting at the home of
Judge Joseph Sheldon in New Haven, Conn.
Miss Barton returned from Cuba about two
weeks ago. She was accompanied by her
general field-agent, Dr. Hubbell. The
rumors that have been in circulation for
weeks that Miss Barton would soon relin-
quish the management of the Red Cross
was denied by her friends. “She is in good
health notwithstanding her age,” said one
who has talked with her since her arrival
in this city. “Of course she is tired after
undergoing such hard work.”—Ex.
	THE House of Lords has done good work
in passing the second reading of the Shop
Assistants’ Bill, which provides for the
seating of women in shops. It has been
shown that appeals to humanity have failed
with the employers, and compulsory legis-
lation is therefore absolutely necessary to
stamp out this evil. Many young women
have been ruined for life by being compelled
to stand behind a counter for hours and
hours. Compulsory legislation has been
passed on the subject in some of the colonies
and several of the States of the American
Union; It is not reasonable that England
should lag behind. Where the health of
the people is concerned, all other consider-
ations must give way.—Ex.


Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust 
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank 
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not open
	one NOW.
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired. 
			LORENZO SNOW, Prest. 
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

Dr. Margaret C. Roberts
Will commence her next CLASS IN
OBSTETRICS AND NURSING on 
Monday, Oct. 16th, 1899.
	Address 75 North, State St., Salt
Lake City.

GARFIELD BEACH.
POPULAR BATHING RESORT.
OPEN JUNE 22.

Boating, Bathing, Dancing.

TRAIN SERVICE:
LEAVE					LEAVE
SALT LAKE.				GARFIELD. 
10 30 a.m.				1:00 p.m.
2:15 p.m.					5:30 p.m.
4:30 p.m.					7:30 p.m.
6:45 p.m.					10:00 p.m.

Round Trip 25c.

Depot Cor. First South and Fourth West.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St. 
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House. 
R. K. THOMAS


Woman's Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 28. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH SEPTEMBER 15, & OCTOBER 1, 1899. Nos. 8 & 9.


CONTENTS. 
Deborah Sampson—A Woman of the Revolution
	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Alice Burke 49. 
The Royal Red Cross. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50.
Toast to Mrs. Stanton. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50.
A Woman Missionary. . . . .Mrs. Addison Pratt 51. 
R. S. Reports—Denver, Colorado. . . . . . . . . . .53.
	St. Johns, Kansas. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .53.
	Hamburg, Germany. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54. 
	Fremont. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55.
	Salt Lake. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .55.
Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting . J. S. Woolley 56.
Miscellaneous. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
EDITORIAL:—General Conference Relief Society
	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52.
	Great Events in 1899 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .52.
	Editorial Notes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .53.
POETRY:—The Better View . . Ella W. Wilcox 49.
	The Spoiler, M. A. Frost and J. A. Caverno 51


THE BETTER VIEW.
If we talk of the good that the world contains,
	And try our best to add to it,
The evil will die of neglect by and by—
	’Tis the very best way to undo it.
We preach too much and we dwell too long
	On sin and sorrow and trouble;
We help them to live by the thoughts we give,
	Their spite and might to redouble.
For the earth is fair and the people are kind,
	If once you look for their kindness;
When the world seems sad and its denizens bad,
	It is only your own soul’s blindness.
And I say if you search for the good and pure,
	And give no thought to evil,
Our labors are worth far more to the earth
	Then when we are chasing the devil.
ELLA WHEELER WILCOX.


[Column 1]
DEBORAH SAMPSON—A WOMAN OF THE
REVOLUTION.
BY ALICE BURKE.
	A young woman bent over a coat sleeve
made of coarse fustian. It belonged to a
half finished garment lying on a chair.
	She stitched away buisily by the light of
a dip candle, standing on the wooden table.
	The room was humbly furnished, evi-
dently the home of a farmer.
	Deborah Sampson—for so the young
woman was called—was a rather remark-
able looking person. Tall, of athletic
build, yet a close observer might have
been surprised to see her small, tapering
hand and dark attractive face. Her
skin was clear and white, enhancing
the beauty of her slumbrous brown eyes and
thick, soft black hair, and showing the
sweet mouth and pearly teeth. She had an
attractive personality, though she seemed
to be unaware of it, her whole mind centered
on an absorbing passion to serve her coun-
try.
	To look at her, one knew that some-
where, sometime, Deborah Sampson had
known better circumstances, for the turn of
her graceful head and the shapely hand
plying the needle betrayed gentle parents—
and this was true of her, for she was des-
cended from William Bradford, governor of
the colony of Plymouth, her grandfather
being Elisha Bradford, a man of consider-
able note, his wife a French woman by
name Bathsheba C. Broche, and their
daughter was Deborah's mother. Her
grandfather had been rich but suddenly

[Column 2]
lost his money and took to a seafaring life,
hence her parents were very poor.
	Deborah was born at Plympton, in Ply-
mouth County, Massachusetts, in December,
1760. When she became of age she had a
home with a farmer, Mr. Thomas. She
had a singular tenacity of purpose and at
this time she was greatly interested in the
revolution which had broken out. During
the day she worked hard at spinning, in
the dairy, and in the fields raking hay, or
binding oats. She could harness a horse
equally well, and often sprang on one and
rode off for a long canter over the country
roads. If a spare moment came she sat
poring over books which she borrowed
from the school children, and every scrap of
news about the war she read eagerly.
	At eighteen she contrived by teaching a
small district school to save twelve dollars,
and with this she bought some coarse fus-
tian, cut out a suit of men’s clothes for her-
self, and thus it was she sat sewing by the
lonely candle.
	“There is no escape for me,” she thought.
“The way is marked out for me. I must
leave these peaceful scenes and enlist in the
army.”
	There was a look of dreamy ecstacy on
her face. It seemed on the previous night,
she had a strange dream. She thought she
stood on the summit of a high hill, in view
of the sea, where a terrific storm raged.
Suddenly a huge serpent wound its way to
her. She fought it bravely, conquering it,
and then she awoke, filled with an over-
powering desire for a real battlefield, a real
foe to attack.
	The utter silence of the small room gave
her mind full play, and she thought of the
weeks to come.
	At this moment something was thrown
against the window.
	“ ’Tis he, David Brenton," she murmured.
	The sound was repeated. She extin-
guished the light, pushed aside the cur-
tains and looked out.
	The night was warm in the early spring,
the breath of the budding flowers filled the
air, and the moon shone above her.
	She was very lovely as she stood there,
revealed to the anxious lover beneath the
window. She wore a full white muslin
shirt, drawn in by a black laced bodice.
She had unfastened it about her throat, and
her dimpled neck lent a statue-like simplici-
ty to her beauty.
	“Deborah,” he said, in a low voice, “I
knew you were there, for I saw the light.”
	“Well," she asked, in her melodious voice,
"Why do you come? Why don’t you stay
away?"
	"Because, sweetheart, it’s impossible. I
love you and hope in time you will return
my love.”
	Deborah laughed.
	“It’s quite useless. Why wear out your
life running after a shadow? I shall never
love you.”
	“I don’t believe it. Surely, if for no
other reason, think of your mother. She
wishes for our union, and think, Deborah, of
the beautiful home I can give you. Try to
love me darling,” he urged. He was a

[Column 3]
man of wealth, and loved her devotedly.
	“I am sorry I have to repeat my no, be-
cause I’ve said it so often, you must be
tired of hearing it.”
	“What will you do when you leave
here? Where will you go? I have heard
you think of making a change,” he said,
ignoring her refusal, as he invariably did.
	"Of that I cannot speak, as it only con-
cerns myself, and it’s no use trying to find
out, for I will not say.”
	He talked of something else and she
gradually got from him that the soldiers in
Boston were in need of food.
	"Why is it, Deborah, you revert to the
war? You are greatly interested in it, are
you not?" he inquired. He saw her face
beam with that wonderful light of courage
and inspired aspiration.
	“I scarcely know,” she said. “I’m sor-
ry, sorry, I’m not a man. If I was I’d
shoulder a firelock and march against the
Red Coats. Yet here within me is the
longing to help these brave men. God
give me strength to find out the way,”
she added beneath her breath, and soon
David Brenton departed.
	When he was gone, she tied up her bun-
dle of work and slipped out of the house,
across a meadow, and close by a large hay-
stack in which she concealed it. This
done, she returned to her room, and then re-
tired for the night.
	Thus she worked daily on the suit,
and at length it was finished. She
sent to the soldiers in Boston, as soon as she
could[-] a few fowl and sheep of her own
raising, bought with some of her hard
earned money at Mr. Thomas’.
	She saw her mother frequently. She
lived in a ramshackle old place, at a short
distance, and the elder woman often urged
the suit of David Brenton, but in vain.
Deborah made a final decision in her own
mind, she would enlist in the army as a
private, disguising herself as a man in the
suit of fustian, which was safely stowed
away in the haystack. She had but to
make the venture and all was before her.
She gave the good people notice, saying
she wanted higher wages, and intended
going to some other town. In a day or
two it was settled between them.
	She tied up a few articles she might re-
quire, and just as the dawn peeped forth,
on a cool day in May, after a kind farewell
to Mr. Thomas and his wife, she started off
for Staunton Mills, and later for Worcester
and the American camp. She wore on
this morning her usual costume, a brown
woolen skirt, white shirt and laced bodice.
The farmer and his wife watched her out of
sight, and when she found she was un-
observed she ran into the meadow, snatched
the suit of fustian out, wrapped it in her
bundle and on she went. She did not say
good-bye to her mother, nor let her know of
her intended departure. At times this
struck home to her, but she thrust the
longing from her. She soon reached a
track of dense woodland, and screened by
the thick bushes she proceeded to change
her apparel, and slipped into the rough
suit of fustian. She stepped forth in a few


[Column 1]
moments fully clothed as a man. Her fig-
ure lent a new grace to the garb, and she
seemed a comely youth. She clipped her
thick black curls closely to her head,
and placed on it a soft hat, which she had
bought the day before, and thus equipped
she breathed freer. Her way seemed
mapped out for her, straight to the Ameri-
can camp, some miles distant. Before pro-
ceeding, she gathered some dry branches
and made a fire, heaping her clothes upon
it, and, setting a light to it, waited until
they were reduced to ashes. These she
covered with earth, and once more set off.
	The day was well on when she paused at
the outposts. The sentinel eyed her curi-
ously, but the fire in her brown eyes shot
straight into his own and awakened a re-
sponsive chord in this weather-beaten soul.
	“I’ve come to enlist,” Deborah an-
nounced; her deep voice filled the place for
a boy’s readily.
	“Well, an’ yer have. I’m glad on it,
young man. Come this way!” He led
her through the ranks straight to Colonel
Patterson.
	He looked pleased when he saw Deborah.
There was a curious intenseness and vigor
about her, which people felt, and she gener-
ally won her point. Her smile was the sun-
niest the Colonel had ever seen, as she
doffed her hat and made known her errand.
He studied her attentively.
	“Yes, you’re just the boy I need,” he
said, laying his hand on her shoulder. She
shrank away, but overcame her embarrass-
ment instantly. “You shall be with me
for a while. I want a young fellow to run
errands to different places along the lines.
You shall fill that position, and be mustered
in at the same time. We shall have leave
of absence soon, and I shall take you home
with me, for you’ll be useful there.”
	Deborah consented readily, though she
had wished for immediate action. She was
mustered into service in May, 1781, under
the name of Robert Shirtliffe.
	The men called her “The Blooming Boy,”
because of her fair skin, and often Bobbie,
to all of which she made no remonstrance.
She became indispensable to the Colonel,
and when his leave of absence came he
took her home with him.
	She found herself in a comfortable home,
with little to do except a few letters to copy
for the Colonel. She busied herself about
the place, working in the garden, and doing
whatever came to hand. The household
grew to love the young man, and she was
careful to evade discovery. She had begged
a room to herself, and the Colonel gave it
to her. About this time a niece came to
stay at the house, and as ill luck would
have it, she became enamored of the youth-
ful soldier. Deborah tried every means to
avert this disaster, but the girl’s earnest-
ness was not to be quelled so easily, and
Deborah went to the Colonel with the story.
After she told him the facts of the case, he
said, “My dear boy, you are needlessly
alarmed, for nothing would please me more
than to have you marry my niece; and
what reason prevents your doing so? Try,
my dear fellow, to love her.”
	Deborah grew white to the lips with fear
and dismay.
	“Colonel Patterson, you don’t know
what you ask,” she said hastily.” “Think
of me, sir, I am only a common soldier. I
haven’t a cent in the world.”
	“Don’t look so frightened, Rob,” the 
Colonel said, laughing. “I’m not going to
force you to marry her, though I’d like

[Column 2]
nothing better. I’d willingly supply the
money to start you comfortably in some
business.”
	“You are too generous, sir, but believe
me, I cannot. It is better that I leave here
at once, if, sir, your niece loves me, as she
has almost told me.” A hot flush mounted
Deborah’s cheeks.
	The Colonel laughed still heartier.
	“My dear Rob, you’re blushing like a
girl.”
	“I believe I am, sir, and I’m ashamed of
it.”
	“You need’nt be. I’d have done the
same if a girl had proposed to me. But
you musn’t think of leaving me. The
young woman shall go first.”
	“This is scarcely fair, sir. No, I shall
go.” The slight figure stood erect, the
voice rang out decidedly, and the Colonel
met only defiance in the handsome brown
eyes.
	“And I say you shall not go,” he said.
“You are dismissed for the present.”
	Deborah saluted her superior officer and
withdrew. She hurriedly put a few arti-
cles together, and when the next morning
came, Colonel Patterson’s household was
astonished to find the young soldier miss-
ing.
	Deborah proceeded back to the American
camp, where she once more got in the ranks
as a private. She carried a bayonet, car-
tridge box, etc. She enlisted for the whole
term of the war, a position never before or
after held by a woman. She filled the full
complement of a soldier’s life, slept in tents
and went through the usual routine of the
men. Her mother in the meantime and
her lover, David Brenton, received rumors
of her death, or of an elopement. They de-
cided to make a search for her, and ended
their pilgrimage by going through the
American camp, fearing she might have
gone there to nurse the soldiers. It hap-
pened that Deborah was putting on her
coat as she caught sight of her mother and
David Brenton being shown through the
camps by two officers. She went inside the
tent immediately, greatly excited. Would
they know her? She snatched up a book
and pretended to read.
	Presently the party passed by her tent,
and David looked in curiously. Deborah
sprang to her feet instantly, pulled her
hat well over her eyes, and saluted her
superior officer. David did not know her,
but saw only a slender youth giving the
army courtesies to his officer.
	How’s everything going with you,
Bobbie?” the Captain inquired.
	“Very well, sir,” Deborah answered in a
scarcely audible voice. Her mother started
slightly as she spoke, and looked intently
at the slim figure in blue, but there was a
short distance between them.
	“It seemed,” she said, in the tender
mother-voice, which went straight to the
girl’s heart; “it seemed as if I had heard
that voice somewhere, sometime. Who is
the young soldier, sir?”
	“Robert Shirtliffe, and a fine young fel-
low.”
	The young fellow turned away and bent
over some writing and the Captain, know-
ing the reticent nature of the youth, moved
away with the other two.
	Deborah’s eyes filled with tears. She
rushed to the opening and unperceived by
them, she watched them for a long way.
Her beloved mother, gentle, sweet as ever,
and she had let her go!
	A roll of drums, a sound of fife, and

[Column 3]
Deborah’s tears ceased to flow—a blazing
fire quenched them as it burned in her
eyes.
“No! no! My country, for thee! I am
here, and it is well. God will guide me. 
		[To be continued.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE ROYAL RED CROSS.  
	“The coveted honor of the Royal Red
Cross has been bestowed by Her Majesty
upon Miss Leonora Maxwell-Muller, wom-
an superintendent of the Indian Nursing
Service in the Madras Presidency, and upon
Miss Annie Gill Mark, superintendent of
the Army Nursing Service, and Miss Ger-
trude Mary Payne, of the Army Nursing
Service.
	In the case of Miss Mark and Miss Payne
the honor is in recognition of their services
in tending the sick and wounded. In that
of Miss Maxwell-Muller it has been in rec-
ognition of her competency in the discharge
of her duties and in the care bestowed in
training British soldiers and army hospital
corps attendants in nursing duties. 
	Miss Maxwell-Muller was trained in the
General Hospital, Birmingham, and after
holding various appointments in the Royal
Scotch Nursing Institute and in the Guards’
Hospital, London, she entered the Indian
Nursing Service in 1889. She became
deputy superintendent, and in 1893 was
appointed woman superintendent of the
Madras Presidency. Miss Maxwell-Muller
was at one time a student of the Ear Hospi-
tal, Glasgow. She is also a registered
member of the Royal British Nurses’
Association.”


TOAST TO MRS. STANTON. 
	The following toast to Mrs. Elizabeth
Cady Stanton was offered by her son,
Robert Livingston Stanton, on a birthday
anniversary of Gerritt Smith Stanton, Sep.
18, 1893. It was the custom to celebrate
these occasions in Mrs. Stanton’s family
with toasts and original verses:

				I.
		Here is a toast
		We all can boast;
	She’s mother, sister, “Aunty Lee.”
		She raised us all
		In many a squall,
	With the help of dear H. B.
				
				II.
		She raises cake
		And bread and ‘sich.’
	From Jersey up to Maine;
		But her favorite raise
		Is not from maize,
	’Tis when she’s “raising Cain.”

				III.
	Germany has her Bismarck,
	England Gladstone, forsooth;
	Poland, Kosciusko; Hungary, Kossuth;
	America had her Washington:
		Columbia, Bolivar:
	But we have got the best of all,
		Our darling, dear old mar!

				IV
	Then let us hope and always pray
		That full many a year may pass
	Before we have a vacant chair
		Long side the apple sass;
	For search we may through tale and
		song,
		We'll never find another
	With so many virtues all in one
		As are found in our dear Mother!


MR. WALTER H. PAGE has resigned the 
position of editor of the Atlantic Monthly.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE SPOILER. 
BY M. A. FROST AND J. H. CAVERNO.
(After the manner of Rudyard Kipling.)

A woman there was and she wrote for the press
	(As you or I might do)
She told how to cut and fit a dress, 
And how to stew many a savory mess,
But she never had done it herself, I guess, 
	(Which none of her readers knew.)

Oh, the hour we spent, and the flour we spent, 
	And the sugar we wasted like sand, 
At the hest of a woman who never had cooked
(And now we know that she never could cook,)
	And did not understand.
 
A woman there was and she wrote right fair
	(As you or I might do,)
How out of a barrel to make a chair, 
To be covered with chintz and stuffed with hair, 
’Twould adorn any parlor and give it an air!
	(And we thought the tale was true.)

Oh, the days we worked, and the ways we worked
	To hammer and saw and hack,
In making a chair in which no one would sit,
A chair in which no one could possibly sit,
	Without a crick in his back.

A woman there was and she had her fun, 
	*(Better than you and I)
She wrote our receipts and she never tried one, 
She wrote about children—of course she had none—
She told us to do what she never had done, 
	(And never intended to do.)

And it isn’t to toil and it isn’t to spoil
	That brings the cup of disgrace,—
Its to follow a woman who didn’t know beans, 
A woman who never had cooked any beans,)
	But wrote and was paid to fill space,
					The Congregationalist.


[Column 1]
A WOMAN MISSIONARY.
	[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands
1850.]
[Continued.]
	During the absence of the vessel, the vil-
lage was quiet. I spent much time in read-
ing and writing. I read Mr. William’s
history of his missionary enterprises among
the South Sea Islands. I was much inter-
ested. I had never conceived an idea of
the immense numbers of islands where the
inhabitants had been taught the scriptures
of divine truth. To read of their savage
customs and terrible idolatry, and now to
see their docility, their genuine piety, their
ingenuity and skill in mechanics. Who
would presume to say that the British mis-
sionaries had not done them good? They
prepared the way for the true Gospel.
What good could we have done them had
they not had bibles and hymn books in
their own language, published by the mis-
sionary societies in England? They had
not taught them the fulness of the Gospel.
How could they, when they did not under-
stand it themselves? They should be ac-
credited for doing what they could.
	On the 7th of June we took an all day
march; climbed up the highest peak of the
mountain. The scenery below us was
grand indeed! The sublimity of the
mighty ocean, which lay stretched out be-
fore our wondering eyes, inspired us with
awe and reverence for Him who gave it its
bounds, and by His mighty power prevents
it from deluging the earth! We made
many little discoveries which interested us
very much. We found plants and shrubs
entirely new to us. There we found the
brake, so common in New England,
grown to a tree thirty feet high, leaves ten
feet long, the trunk six miles in diameter,
perfectly straight, of a pithy substance, af-
fording a beautiful shade for the wild goats
which are found at the mountain tops.
The charming little grottoes and arbors

[Column 2]
seemed alluring, almost sufficient to tempt
a lover of nature to seclude himself and live
alone in palaces human hands had not
formed. There he could sleep in the
bowers; no cold winter to freeze him; cool
breezes would fan him in the heat of the
summer; when hungry he could go to the
foot of the mountain and find plenty of
food and fruit, which is free for all. Where,
thought I, could another such a situation
be found in the grand wide world!
	After having fatigued ourselves till we
could scarcely walk at all, we bent our way
homeward. We plunged down the steep
precipices, through thickets where, before
entering, it seemed impossible to penetrate.
But we found goat paths in the dense
shrubbery which precipated our way down.
I, however, became so exhausted, I was
obliged to sit down on my feet and slide
myself along the declivities as best I could.
	When nearly down, Brother Hanks left
us and went ahead to prepare supper. We
had yet remaining a long walk. We sent
the children before us with sufficient appa-
ratus to make a dish of tea, with which we
had prepared ourselves. It consisted of a
coffee pot and two saucers. They went to
the first stream of water, struck a fire, and
had the tea made when we overtook them.
The tea, with other refreshments, so much
revived us that we were enabled to reach
home just as twilight disappeared. Ann
Louisa, my youngest, faithfully served me
as a staff coming down the mountain; she
did not seem to falter at all. No poor
travelers were ever more thankful to get to
a place of rest than we were that night.
We were lame for a week, but we did not
regret the excursion, neither would we had
it made us lame for a month.
	I could now say I had traversed the
highest peak of the mountains of Tabouai.
As we went up, we saw the natives grating
arrowroot to make what they call peas. The
grating is a novel method. A hard, stout
cord around a block of wood, tied firmly,
forms a grater. On this they pulverize the
root, which is something like an Irish pota-
to. Then through a cloth fastened onto a
frame they strain it off, rince it a number of
times, settle and drain off the water, and
it is done. It is then spread on cloth in a
close yard and dried in the sun. Nothing
can exceed it in whiteness. It is a pleasant
sight to see it spread in such immense
quantities, knowing how good it is for
food. The most delicate dishes can be
made of it with eggs and the milk of the
young cocoanut. All the while this labor
was going on the “dancers” kept up their
exercises. The members of the Church did
not mingle with those in their dancing,
though their labor was performed in com-
mon. It is their custom to make amuse-
ment of nearly every kind of labor.
	The cultivation of tarrow is quite labor-
ious. Swampy ground is chosen for the
raising of that vegetable. Running water
is kept constantly flowing over the patch of
tarrow, and when any is taken out the tops
are immediately replaced. It runs down-
ward like a beet, and grows about the size,
or some larger. It is a very good substi-
tute for bread. By replacing the tops it is
kept growing all the years with their
rounds.
	The Ravai by this time was due, six
weeks being her allotted time to make the
trip. We dared not expect her; and yet,
as though we really did, we walked on the
beach the evening of the set day, and gazed
upon the waters to see if we could discry
an object resembling a vessel. Frances

[Column 3]
exclaimed, “Oh, if I could see the Ravai
heave in sight I would dance for joy!”
At that instant the cry was heard: "Tohi
a hoi!” It sounded from one to another,
who all cried the same, till it was heard the
entire Island over. It was dusky, and we
could not discern it closely, but the natives
are never mistaken in such matters. She
lay off and on till morning, and came to
anchor at an early hour. Two hours be-
fore daydawn found us up preparing break-
fast and getting ready to receive our friends.
	It was the 20th of June, 7 o’clock in the
morning, when the friends came on shore.
Ellen was much pleased with her voyage.
She had excited much curiosity among
those who had never seen a white women
before. She carried with her a musical in-
strument with which she diverted many
who had never seen or heard any such
thing before. They made her many nice
presents, and two females proposed making
friends with her. This is a custom advan-
tageous to foreigners who come here for a
permanent residence. If you consent to
accept them as your friends, they will feed
you as long as they have a morsel for them-
selves. In return they will expect you to
divide with them, if they should need your
assistance.
	Brother Brown stopped a week with us,
and we had a fine visit. He is a promising
young man, and bids fair to make a good
Tahitan scholar and a faithful preacher of
the Gospel.
	Capt. Grouard left his wife on Suara, one
of the Chain Islands. He seemed in better
spirits than usual; free to act himself. His
wife is so disposed to be jealous that he ap-
pears under restraint in her presence, espe-
cially in the company of white women.
	Brother Brown had been kept a prisoner
in the Calaboose on Tahiti, for two or three
months, by order of the French govern-
ment, but had been released by the inter-
position of the American consul and per-
mitted to go to an island called Ravaivai.
	On the 5th of July, our schooner sailed
for the second time, to bring all the bull-
ocks from the island, which had been put
on the mountain to fatten for the market.
They were very wild, and great excitement
prevailed while the men were getting them
on board the vessel. Many of the natives
had never seen cattle before, and were terri-
fied at the sound of their bellowing and
their pawing in the earth.
	The boy, Hiram E. W. Clark, who
came with us from Salt Lake City, went
for a pleasure trip to Tahiti; Brother Hanks
went to join the Elders on the Chain Is-
lands. We were left lonely. All being
settled, we renewed the school. The
native boys seemed very anxious to learn
the use of figures. They commenced earn-
estly, but it soon became irksome to them.
They cannot stand strict discipline or close
application; everything taught them must
be presented in the shape of amusement.
	On the 24th of July I spent the day in
the “Fere bare ra” (prayer house) teaching.
It never once occurred to our minds that
the day was passing unheeded. We had
intended in some way to celebrate it; but
the white men were nearly all gone, not
enough of the right element to have an
agreeable assemblage.
[To be continued.]


“MRS. J. ELLEN FOSTER recently spent
several days very delightfully at Northfield
in attendance upon the Christian Workers’
Conference.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

Woman's Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah,
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months.
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p.m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEP. 15, & Oct, 1, 1899.


GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The General Conference of the Relief
Society will be held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall in this city, Thursday,
October 5, 1899, meetings commencing at
10 a. m., 2 p. m. and 7 p. m. It is desir-
able that there should be a representative
from each Stake of Zion to report, and all
officers and members, also Bishops and
brethren, are most cordially invited to
attend the meetings of the conference
of this great organization.
ZINA D. H. YOUNG,
President,
JANE S. RICHARDS,
BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
SARAH J. CANNON,
Counselors.


[Column 1]
GREAT EVENTS IN 1899.
	This year, 1899, has been one of great
events significant of material changes, and
brimming over with exciting details in
which the whole world is interested. Much
has transpired of general interest, and the
newspapers and associated press have not
lacked for such news as the people clamor
for in this age of feverish unrest.
	The war with Spain was scarcely settled
by treaty until the war with the Phillipines
began in dead earnest, and there is little
likelihood of any satisfactory arrangement
being made in the near future. Indeed, it
is a grave question how to adjust matters
so as to reach a peaceful solution. Mean-
time the Peace movement called for the
powers in several great nations, to unite
upon some method that would bring about
more peaceable relations when difficulties
should arise between the various countries,
either on sea or on land; and at this stage
of the civilization of the world such
measures must seem at least to be oppor-
tune; to pursue barbarous practises was all
very well in the days of feudalism, but
with the enlightenment of the nineteenth
century, surely ought to come such ration-
al and progressive advancement in com-
mercial and political and all other inter-
national matters, that some common ground
of settlement might be formulated so as to
avoid much that has been objectionable to
all right feeling people, who desire the
welfare of mankind.
	The Peace Conference at “The Hague”
has accomplished more than many of its
promoters anticipated at first. At any rate,
this remarkable conference brought togeth-

[Column 2]
er delegates from many countries eminent
for learning, wisdom and judgment, and
with such minds in close contact with each
other, naturally the result must be char-
acteristic of the whole. They came to-
gether undoubtedly to do effective work,
and certainly it was an unique event,
something “new under the sun.” The
finale acte which summed up the labor of
days and weeks has at least given fresh
courage, and a certain faith in humanity to
those who have taken note of the proceed-
ings and the ultimate outcome.
	Recently a question has arisen, whether,
after all, it was not the Pope who originated
the Peace Conference, instead of the Czar.
It is stated upon good authority, that the
papal representatives were shut out from
the deliberations of the conference; yet the
fact seems well established that the Pope’s
proposition to the Czar was made as early
as 1895. It is a well-known fact that
Pope Leo XIII. has been against war
measures, and has been greatly exercised
because war could not be prevented.
Whether the Pope or the Czar made the
first move towards calling the conference,
evidently the leaven is working, and though
the permanent good desired may not be
reached in the near future, yet the confer-
ence is certainly one of the memorable
events of the century. The influence of
the great gathering at “The Hague” will
spread abroad, and though many may
doubt its beneficient results, the world will
be the better for all such humanizing efforts.
	Another great event, and one seemingly
fraught with direful consequences, is the
Dreyfus trial, which has caused more of a
sensation—and of an entirely different char-
acter from the Peace Conference. And the
end is not yet. The effect of such proceed-
ing s cannot be in the nature of civilizing
and uplifting humanity, but exactly the
opposite. The interest in the case was not
really so much because of the moral con-
viction everywhere that Dreyfus was inno-
cent, but that the issues involved were of
such vital importance to the French nation;
and the new trial caused a great excite-
ment throughout, but the crisis was reached
when an attempt was made to assassinate
M. Labori, Dreyfus’ counsel. It is current-
ly reported that the attempt was in the in-
terest of General Mercier, whose testimony
against Dreyfus was to be subjected to
Labori’s examination.
	The idea that Dreyfus would be vindi-
cated and his innocence proved, seemed the
prevailing opinion almost to the very last;
and when the verdict was “guilty”—peo-
ple were more than surprised—indeed it
seemed an impossible thing. However,
against the almost universal opinion of the
countries nearest allied to France, and who
certainly would expect justice, even tem-
pered with mercy, yet the unexpected has
happened. What the consequences will be
it is hard to determine. Latest telegrams
seem to have indicated pardon from the
government, and now the “pardon” has
been granted, so say the telegraphic dis-
patches, by President Loubet.
	Preparatory to the pardon, which it
would seem was confidently anticipated,
“rooms were engaged for Madame Dreyfus
and children,” at Folkestone, four miles
from Dover. The kindly expressions of
the people of the place towards M. Labori
and Madame Dreyfus, were very affecting,
so say the dispatches. 
	Now that the pardon has been granted,
the French officials are fearful of a great

[Column 3]
demonstration, and prepare to get Dreyfus
out of the country before the pardon goes
into effect.

	The Transvaal is the all absorbing ques-
tion of the British government at the pres-
ent time. The general opinion is that
Cecil Rhodes finds the Transvaal as an in-
dependent Republic detrimental to the in-
dustrial, commercial and political projects
of the far-reaching imperialists. Olive
Schreiner, a South African English woman,
a writer of great force and immense popu-
larity, has recently published a book giving
her views of the entire situation; it is en-
titled “An English South African’s View of
the Situation.” This South African or
Transvaal question, is worth studying from
Olive Schreiner’s standpoint. She says: “A
new Phenomenon has started up in South
African Life. The discovery of vast stores
of mineral wealth in South Africa, more
especially gold, has attracted suddenly to
its shores a larger population, which is not
and cannot, at least at once, be South Afri-
can. These are literally foreigners. ***
To those who know the Klondyke and
Western America it is not necessary to de-
scribe Johannesburg. *** Rightly to
understand the problem before the little
Transvaal Republic today, it is necessary for
Englishmen to imagine not merely that
within ten or twelve years forty millions of
Rnssians, Frenchmen and Germans should
enter England, not in driblets and in time
extending over half a century, to be ab-
sorbed and digested in the original popula-
tion, but instantaneously and at once, not
merely to remain in England and there to
extract wealth; not merely that the bulk of
this wealth was exported at once to other
countries enriching Russia, France and
Germany out of the products of English
soil, that would be comparatively a small
matter, but that the bulk of the wealth ex-
tracted was in the hands of a few persons
and these persons opposed to the continued
freedom and independence of England, but
were attempting by the use of the wealth
they extracted from England to stir up Rus-
sia and France and Germany against her,
that through the loss of her freedom they
might the better obtain the command of
her wealth and lands. When the English-
man has vividly drawn this future for him-
self, he will hold as nearly as is possible,
in a nutshell, an image of the problem
which the people and government of the
Transvaal Republic are called on to face to-
day, and we put it straightly to him,
whether this problem is not one of in-
finite perplexity and difficulty?”
	“Much unfortunate misunderstanding has
arisen from the simple use of the terms
“capitalist” and “monopolist” in the dis-
cussion of South African matters. The
question before us is not, shall one South
African possess twenty millions, live in his
palace, live on champagne, have his yacht
in Table Bay, and deck women with a hun-
dred thousand dollars worth of jewels, while
the South African next door has nothing?
This is not our question! Our problem is
not the problem of America. *** Their
fate is bound up with the land they live in;
their ambitions are American. *** When
they die it is to American institutions they
leave their munificent donations. The mass
of the wealth they expend on themselves is
expended in America, and returns to the 
people of the country in many forms.”
	Who gains by war? is one of the ques-
tions Olive Schreiner puts forcibly.


“What matter who goads England on, or
in whose cause she undertakes war against
the Africans, she can win?” This is
a question used by the author of the book;
but she goes on to make a most thrilling
statement thereafter.
After giving a most graphic description
of the state of the country and its women
following the victory of the English, if
such a victory should be gained, she says:
‘‘You say all the fighting men in arms
might be shot. Yes, but what of the wom-
en? If there were left but five thousand
pregnant South African born women, and
all the rest of their people were destroyed,
these women would breed up again, a race
like unto the first.
	“Nearer home, we turn to one whom all
South Africa are proud of, and we would
say to Paul Kruger, ‘Great old man, first
but not last of South Africa’s great rulers,
you have shown us you could fight for
freedom show us you can win peace.’
	“On the foot of that great statue which in
the future the men and women of South
Africa will raise to you, let this stand writ-
ten: ‘This man loved freedom and fought
for it, but his heart was large; he could
forget injuries and deal generously.’ On
our great African flag let us emblazon
these words, never to take them down:
‘Freedom, Justice, Love, great are the two
first, but without the last they are not com-
plete’”
	
	These three great events mentioned are
significant of tumults and calamities, and it
would indeed seem that the elements of
civilization are stirred to the very centre.
One could enumerate dozens, yes scores of
other subjects of serious importance, but
there is no need of particularizing further
to show that the scripture, II. Timothy,
3-1, is being fulfilled, “that in the last days
perilous times shall come.”
The latest news from Dreyfus is of his
pardon being secured, his departure from
France to some place unknown, (disputing
the retreat to Folkestone) and the failure of
his health under the mental as well as
physical strain he has undergone. The
dispatches of September 20, state: “Cap-
tain Alfred Dreyfus at 3 o’clock this morn-
ing left the prison * * and proceeded to
Vern, where he took a train bound for
Nantes.” Mme. Dreyfus left Rennes at
noon, accompanied by her father and
friends.”

	Latest news from South Africa report
that Prest. Kruger or the Transvaal govern-
ment has appealed to at least three Europ-
ean powers for mediation in the Anglo-
Boer dispute, and that the three powers
were represented at the Hague Peace Con-
ference. Here is a good opportunity for
practical work in the direction of arbitra-
tion. Let us hope the appeal will not be
in vain.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]	
	EDITORIAL NOTES
	THE regular annual business meeting of
the National Woman’s Relief Society will
be held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall in
this city, on Monday, October 2, 1899, at 2
o'clock p.m. 	All officers and members of
the society are cordially invited to be pres-
ent.
	E. B. WELLS, Gen. Sec.
	
	A SUGGESTION has been made that
Tooele, Davis, Weber, Box Elder, Morgan,

[Column 2]
Cache, Summit and Wasatch Counties
be solicited to furnish students for Dr.
Roberts’ training class. She would like to
have one hundred or more.

	THE City of Rome, which sailed from
Glasgow on the 26th of August, ult., had
on board, returning home, some of the
ladies who went to London to attend the
International Council, and others who had
been over visiting in England, France and
Scotland, others collecting genealogy, and
also missionaries, one lady, at least, and
several brethren. Among the lady passen-
gers were Mrs. Elizabeth Claridge McCune,
Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings and Miss Lucile
Jennings, of this city; Mrs. Jesse Knight,
of Provo, and Mrs. Lettie Dewey Campbell,
of Deweyville. All these sisters return in
good health and spirits, notwithstanding
the thrilling incident of an iceberg striking
the steamer and creating much alarm among
the passengers, in fact, giving them all a
good shaking up. One young man from
New York, a clergyman who had been
traveling in England for his health, went
violently insane, the shock being too great
for him in his weak state. This brings
back to Utah all the ladies who attended
the International Council and Congress, ex-
cept those who remain to labor as mission-
aries.
	THE Utah Society of the Daughters of
the Revolution, met as a sort of sociable on
Saturday, September 16, at 3 p. m., at the
residence of Mrs. Isabel M. Sears, East
Waterloo. The house was prettily decor-
ated with flowers in every available place;
late roses, bright, beautiful nasturtiums
and astors. Several letters from head-
quarters were read, the correspondence
which has accumulated during the absence
of the Regent; the remainder of the time was
occupied by the Regent (Mrs. E. B. Wells)
giving an account of her trip to London
and Paris, and the receptions tendered to
the International Council, including the
visit to Windsor Castle and tea in St.
George's Hall. The "five o'clock tea,"
with many delicious delicacies was a pleasant
part of the social affair. The table was
beautiful with floral decorations, and each
guest was given a knot of ribbon the colors
of the society. Regrets were expressed at
the absence of the First Vice-Regent, who
was expected to add something descriptive
of her trip to London; and also the absence
of the Recording Secretary, whose approach-
ing marriage was the apology for her not be-
ing present. The next meeting will be held
in the Templeton, room 208, on Monday,
October 16, at 3 p. m. All members are
urgently requested to attend, that a course
of study may be begun for the winter.

	DR. MARGARET C. ROBERTS expects to
open another class for a Corps of Nurses in
November of this year. It is ardently
hoped that under the auspices of the Relief
Society in the several Stakes of Zion near
Salt Lake County, suitable young and mid-
dle aged women may be selected who have
the ability and aptitude for this employ-
ment, after taking a course of physiology
and general nursing. The term will con-
tinue for seven months with three lessons a
week. Each student must be supplied with text books, note books and pencils, cost not
exceeding $2.50. Dr. Roberts will have
some of the best surgeons and physicians of
Salt Lake City to give lessons during the
course. As the course of instruction will

[Column 3]
be given free of charge, in consideration
of this free course of study. each sister
taking it will agree for a certain length of
time to nurse under the direction of the
president of the Relief Society in the re-
spective locality where she resides free of
charge, unless permitted to do otherwise be-
cause of circumstances. A suitable room
will be furnished for the lectures and in-
struction. Dr. Margaret C. Roberts tenders
her services free to the Relief Society, for
the benefit of that organization, and that
the sick, who have not faith to be healed,
may be nourished with care and skill, and
that not by the hand of an enemy, "accord-
ing to the word of the Lord to the Latter-
day Saints. For further particulars apply
to Dr. Margaret C. Roberts, 75 North State
Street, Salt Lake City.


R. S. REPORTS.
	DENVER, COLORADO. 
Editor Woman's Exponent:
	The members of the Relief Society of
Denver wish me to write you, to let you
know how we are getting along. 
	Our Relief Society has only a small
membership, but we endeavor to do our
duty as best we can, with our limited
means. During the past summer we have
assisted in caring for some of the poor in
this city, and we have furnished a room
complete in “The Haven,” which is a home
and industrial training school for young
girls. They come from all parts of the
State; some are orphans, and others might
better be, and some are half orphans. This
room is occupied by two girls as a bed-
room. It is furnished with a nice iron
bedstead and bedding, also chairs, wash-
stand, glass, rug,s and all things necessary
for a girl's bedroom; and we have the
privilege of placing our literature there for
them to read, and on the door we have a
nice plate with the name of our Church on
it: “Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints.” 
	We have a good band of sisters here, if
they are few in number. They feel like
pressing on in the good work, and we en-
joy the EXPONENT and have articles from
it read in our meetings.
	Ever praying for the health of the
editor of the EXPONENT, Sister Wells, we 
remain,
	Yours in the cause of truth,
		EVA HALEY, Pres. 
		MARY E. WOOLLEY, Cor. Sec.
		ST. JOHNS STAKE, KANSAS. 
	Our society was organized July 8, 1899,
by our mission president, Elder Wm. Jack,
and we now have seventeen members en-
rolled. 
	We have in our treasury, twenty dollars.
We have given one ice cream social, from
which we cleared five dollars and seventy
cents. We have pieced two quilts, and
quilted three; also made three comforts and
sewed carpet rags. We have held twenty-
five working and testimony meetings.
Those held on the first Thursday of each
month are devoted to testimony bearing.
	Following are the minutes of our first
regular monthly meeting:
	Saint John’s Relief Society held in the
Saint’s Church, Thursday, August 3, 1899, 
at 2 o’clock p. m.  presided over by our president, Sister Lucy Brekenridge. 
	The meeting was opened by singing the


[Column 1]
hymn, “We thank Thee, O God, for a
prophet.” Prayer by Sister Breckenridge.
Singing, “Come let us anew, our journey
pursue.” Roll was called and minutes of
previous meeting read and approved.
Members present, eleven. 
	Sister Oden spoke for a short time. Said
that she was thankful that she belonged to
our society; that she felt like going ahead
and doing what she could.
	Sister Hawkins said that the Lord would
bless us if we would be faithful, and prayed
that we might continue in the Gospel.
	Sister Baker bore her testimony with
much feeling. Desired always to be faith-
ful and do her part, both in the Church
and in the society.
	Sister Dixon spoke of the true prophet of
God. Said we were just starting and must
have a foundation—trust in the Lord. Ex-
horted us to keep ourselves pure, and bore
a strong testimony to the truthfulness of
the Gospel.
	Sister Gooing was thankful to meet with
us again. Expressed her willingness to do
all she could to aid the society.
	Singing, “O, say what is truth.”
	Sister Breckenridge felt thankful that she
lived in this day of the restoration of the
Gospel. She hoped that we would all go
ahead and be faithful, and we would be
blessed.
	Sister Miller felt well and thought the
Lord would bless us if we did what we
could. Testified that she knew that we
had the true Gospel.
	Sister Smith, of Thistle, Utah, who was
visiting with us, said she would soon have
to leave for her home, and might never see
us again in this life; but she felt we would
meet in the next. Knew the Lord would
bless us, He had blessed her.
	The sisters then sang, “Earth with her
ten thousand flowers.
	Sisters Breckenridge, Gooing, Dixon and
Budge each donated ten cents.
	Singing, “O, my Father.” Benediction
by Sister Hawkins.
			LUCY BRECKENRIDGE, Pres.,
			MARGARET BUDGE, Sec.
HAMBURG, GERMANY.
	The Relief Society of Hamburg is in a
very flourishing condition. It is presided
over by Sister Reicht, with Sister Ahers as
first counselor and another good sister,
whose name I do not remember, as second
counselor. They meet twice a month, a
work meeting and a testimony meeting
alternately. They have not many poor,
for they are nearly all poor, but through
untiring efforts, they succeed in almost pay-
ing the rent of the hall where the Relief
Society meetings are held.
	They are earnest workers in the cause,
and desire to do all they can to roll on the
great work of the Latterdays. They enter-
tain the Elders all it is possible for them to
do, some inviting them to take a meal a
week with them, some do part of their
washing and others mend their clothes.
My heart went out to them in their great
efforts to bless the Elders when sent to
them, out of their scanty store.
	They desire to come to Zion, it being
their dream by day and by night. They
love the sisters in Zion. They knit socks
and stockings, let their president buy
towels and other necessary articles, on
which she gets ten per cent off, they paying
the regular store price, so as to let that
much go into the treasury. They have a
secretary and treasurer.

[Column 2]
	Of course they do not use quilts in
Germany, so those avenues we have at
home are not open to them to assist them in
gathering means. The light feather bed,
which, by the way, is decidedly comfortable
on a cold night, and a spread is all they
have on their beds. But they are so earn-
est and intelligent, the love of Zion quick-
ens their understanding and the cause they
work in makes it a labor of love.
	Three meetings were held and one
officers’ meeting. President Reicht enter-
tained some of the Elders and myself, as
also did Sister Ahers. Both of these fami-
lies are getting near the day when they
may come to Zion. Some of the other sis-
ters invited us to their homes also, among
them being Sister Schroder, who puts every
spare ten penny into a box, thus saving
the money to get to Zion.
	I spoke to the first German meeting of
sisters on July 24, 1899. They send their
love to President Zina D. H. Young and
all the other sisters in Zion. They would
have all come down to the boat when I
left, only that it did not go out until 11:30
p. m. Still some came with the brethren,
who would not say good bye, but “We’ll
meet again in Zion.”
WE’LL MEET AGAIN IN ZION.
	To the Saints in Hamburg and my friends.

We’ll meet again in Zion, fair Zion far away,
And clasp each friendly hand on that gladsome
	day;
We’ll see the mountains rising, snow-capp'd to
	the skies,
And the lake on whose fair bosom the evening
	sunset lies.

We’ll meet again in Zion, where God’s own Tem-
	ple stands,
And tell how we as strangers, glad meet in fore-
	ign lands;
As comrades in the Vineyard, where hearts so
	closely meet,
Brave toiling on midst trials, to tell the story
	sweet.

How Christ will come to Zion, His church to teach
	anew,
And choose His very own, His jewels not a few;
Then may we meet in Zion, though oceans inter-
	vene
And roll forever onward, that land and us be-
	tween.

Then, too, in that blest Zion, the city paved with
	gold,
May we amid its splendors, our Savior’s face be-
	hold;
O, there where Saints are gathered from every 
	land and clime,
May we hear the welcome plaudit, “Beloved you
	are mine.”

And through the countless ages, eternities un-
	born,—
When the purple hills of Paradise, gently kiss the
	morn;
And Life’s flowing river, for aye glides smooth
	along,
May we join in the chorus of the New, Unchang-
	ing Song.
						LYDIA D. ALDER.
	North Sea, August 10, 1899,
			FREMONT.
	A delightfully successful tour through
this (the Fremont) Stake has just been
completed by the Stake presidency of our
Relief Society and others, accompanied by
Sister L. L. Greene Richards, of Salt Lake
City.
	Sister Richards came to Rexburg on the
23rd of July, and went on to Haden, in
Teton Valley, forty miles from here, where
she spent Pioneers’ Day with her sister,
Mrs. M. G. Homer, and daughter. On the
25th Sister Homer and daughter accompan-
ied Sister Richards back to Rexburg, where
they were joined by Relief Society Stake

[Column 3]
President Temperance Hinckley, and First
Counselor Mary S. Anderson.
	These sisters commenced their trip
through the Stake on Wednesday, July 26.
Their first meeting was held with the Re-
lief Society of Salem Ward. Continuing
their travels and visits, they held meetings
with the sisters in each of the following
named wards: Island, Lyman, Burton,
Rexburg, Hyatt, Egin, Parker, Ora, Wil-
ford, Twin Groves, Fall River, Mary’sville,
Teton City, Pratt, Chapin, Darby, Ray-
mond, Leigh and Haden.
	With the exception of Jackson’s Hole
and, I think, one or two other small, scat-
tered settlements, where as yet not enough
women reside to form a Relief Society,
every ward in the Stake was visited. 
	Besides the Relief Society meetings, the
sisters met with the Young Ladies’ and
Primary associations in some instances,
where such meetings could be arranged.
	Sisters Flamm, Black and Atkinson
joined the company of visiting sisters in
some of the wards. In several instances
they were also favored with the presence
and support of Stake President Thomas E.
Ricks, his counselor, Wm. F. Rigby, and 
Patriarch A. E. Hinckley. The Bishops
and other leading brethren also showed a
kindly interest in the work of the sisters in
most of the wards.
	There were two wards in which it was
found the removal and resignation of
the Relief Society president rendered re-
organization necessary; and several of the
branch societies were needing to be aroused
and reminded that the duties required at
the hands of the sisters in the society were
of vast importance, and must be diligently
attended to. But in the majority of cases,
good, harmonious work was being done;
and an eagerness to be taught how to im-
prove and progress was manifested by the
brave, noble women who are pioneering
their portion of the work of the Lord in
these comparatively new settlements.
	In all the meetings held by the sisters in
this annual visit through the Stake, the
teachings were of a remarkably elevating
and purifying nature, combining temporal
and spiritual matters in a way to be clearly
understood by all.
	The Relief Society throughout, and the
Young Ladies’ and Primary Associations,
were urged to take an active interest in all
each other’s welfare; to visit back and forth,
encouraging and sustaining each other with
their united faith and prayers, as well as by
good words and works. The law of tithing
and kindred topics were impressively ex-
plained and illustrated, together with near-
ly, if not all, the principles and doctrines
belonging to the Gospel of salvation, both
for the present and the future life.
	“Sister Lula” (as we like to designate
L. L. Greene Richards) being the principal
speaker in all the meetings which have
been mentioned here, took especial care
never to neglect presenting a loving mes-
sage and blessing to the sisters of the Fre-
mont Stake from the honored and beloved
president of the Sisterhood, Sister Zina D.
H. Young, and her counselors; in response
to which, on behalf of the Sisterhood of the
Fremont Stake of Zion, we sincerely re-
turn love and gratitude to dear “Aunt
Zina” and her associates; and thank her
and them for sending us the motherly
benedictions and instructions by so worthy
and capable a messenger as our dear Sister
Lula.
	May the peace and love of heaven ev


[Column 1]
abide with Sister Zina D. H. Young and
the great and grand organization over
which she presides.
			SARAH A. BARNES,
					Stake Sec. R. S.
		SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of Salt
Lake Stake, was held in the Assembly
Hall, Saturday, September 2, 1899, com-
mencing at 10 a. m., President M. Isabella
Horne presiding. On the stand, beside
President Horne, were her counselors,
Annie T. Hyde and Clara C. Cannon,
Corresponding Secretary Maria W. Wilcox,
and Aid Julia C. Howe; also President B.
W. Smith, of the General Board, and Sis-
ter Elizabeth J. Stevenson.
	Meeting opened by singing, “We thank
Thee, O God, for a prophet.” Prayer by
Counselor C. C. Cannon. Continued by
singing, “For the strength of the hills,”
etc. Roll called: city wards represented,
20; country wards, 20. Minutes of pre-
vious conference read and accepted.
	The secretary stated that she had great
difficulty in getting in reports in time to
make Stake report; urged greater prompt-
ness.
	President Horne gave valuable instruc-
tions to the sisters on the duties of mothers
in training their children, and duties in the
Church. “Out of the 2717 members re-
ported, we should have a much larger at-
tendance at meeting this morning.” Said
she was pleased to see such a good repre-
sentation of officers. Felt sure that all the
sisters could make arrangements to come to
conference once in three months, if they
had sufficient interest.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith said:
“The word of the Lord to the Saints is that
the sisters and the Saints should pay tith-
ing and donations, and not let the names
of the brethren alone appear on the books.
Teach your children to keep the Sabbath
day holy; teach them to pray and observe
the Word of Wisdom.”
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde said: Every
one comes here to gain instruction, and be
able to carry home to her society something
that will be of benefit. Our report shows
that the attendance at the ward meetings is
not so large as it should be. There is a great
responsibility resting upon the officers.
There are just as good women outside the
society as there are in it, but they have
not the spirit of Relief Society work. How
many are going to work to help bring them
in and inspire them? The younger sisters
should be more interested, for it is a noble
work of sacrifice and doing good. Many
of our nurses are doing a noble work of
charity among the sick and needy. We ex-
pect soon to organize classes for young
ladies and young mothers, where lectures
on hygiene, physical development, etc.,
will be given. Impress upon your children
at your knee the divinity of the mission of
Joseph Smith, that when they go out
among the nations, they may have the
spirit of truth burning in their hearts.”
	Counselor M. M. Daniels, of the Relief
Society of Utah Stake, expressed great
pleasure in meeting with us, this being her
first opportunity of doing so. Rejoiced in
all she had heard here. Spoke of the good
results of paying tithing, and gave many
good instructions. “The young people
have too much amusement, for it keeps
them in a state of excitement. One amuse-
ment follows so quickly upon another, that

[Column 2]
their minds never have a chance to calm
down. It is really injurious to their
nervous system.” Thanked the Lord that
she had seen and known the Prophet Joseph
Smith, and had a testimony and knowledge
of the divinity of his mission. She was
healed of chills and fever when she was
baptized at the age of nine years.
	President Sarah J. Cannon, of the Gener-
al Board, said if we would follow out the
instructions we had heard this morning, we
would certainly see good results. Spoke of
her son being healed by the administration
of the Elders. This morning he had left
home to go on a mission. When people
who are outside our Church asked her what
we believe in, she told them that we be-
lieve in what the Savior taught when He
was here upon the earth. Some had said to
her that they did not think we wished to
talk about our religion. She told them
this was a mistake, for we wished every
man, woman and child on the earth to have
a complete knowledge of our faith, that all
the human family might be benefited
	President Mary Ann Hyde, of the Relief
Society of Sanpete Stake, said: “The
progress of this work is marvelous when
we think of the small number at the com-
mencement, and the great extent of the
work now. The mission of President Snow
is wonderful, and he is awakening the
Saints to a sense of duty, and doing a great
work. Do not fall into a state of lethargy.”
	President Horne felt that the time had
been well occupied. Desired a larger at-
tendance in the afternoon to hear the in-
structions that were to be given. She had
received a letter from Sister Lydia D. Alder
from London, and she sent her love to the
sisters and expressed her interest in the
work.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. Sing-
ing, “The time is far spent.” Benedic-
tion by Sister Maria W. Wilcox.
	Afternoon session. Meeting opened by
singing, “Come, come ye saints.” Prayer
by Sister Elizabeth Webb. Singing,
“Zion stands with hills surrounded,” by
Prof. C. J. Thomas, Brother Charles Bar-
rell, Sisters Maggie C. Hull and Lizzie
Thomas. Minutes of afternoon session of
June conference read and accepted. Finan-
cial report read and accepted also.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon gave much
good instruction to young mothers. Said:
“Motherhood is the grandest mission on
earth. We, as mothers, should lead lives
such as our children should follow. If
there are some who are wayward in youth,
by this good example they may be influ-
enced to return to the fold. The Gospel is
the same that was preached by the Savior,
and is just as beautiful now as it was then.
Teach your children not to form acquain-
tances with those who are not of our faith
that will lead to marriage; ‘be ye not un-
equally yoked together.’ There is much
unhappiness results from such unions.”
	Sister Julia C. Howe felt her soul lifted up
in gratitude to the Lord for the instructions
given here. “In listening to them I often
wish that we might have had such in-
structions when I was young and rearing
my children. But our Heavenly Father
will excuse our ignorance. The young
women should identify themselves with the
Relief Society and assist the older sisters,
for they have had many advantages that
some of the older ones have not enjoyed.”
	Sister Elizabeth J. Stevenson said: “It is
a great pleasure to me to meet with the sis-
ters, to look upon their faces. I am thank-

[Column 3]
ful to live in the day of prophets and
apostles. Our children should never be
permitted to forget the life of the Prophet
Joseph, and his work. The youth should
have correct principles instilled into their
minds. They should be taught economy,
that, through their extravagance, their
parents may not be called upon to mort-
gage their homes. They should be willing
to minister to the sick, go and read to them,
if they wish it. How much better the
young sisters can do this than the older
ones! Do not desire to be freed from the
care of looking after your children. They
will all be grown up, and you will be left
alone soon enough.”
	The quartette sang “I know that my Re-
deemer lives.”
	President Horne spoke on the subject of
tithing. Said: “It should make no differ-
ence to us what is done with the tithing.
How much does it take to keep the Tem-
ple open? to bring the missionaries home?
to pay clerks? and many other things. We
should not try to dictate to the Church
authorities. The Lord will pour out
blessings upon us if we pay our honest
tithing. At the annual meeting in the
branches, the presiding sisters should
be invited to come; it will increase the in-
terest in the respective society. A great
many of the branches of the society in this
Stake are leaving off their work meetings,
but this should not be done. Our work is
temporal as well as spiritual. These
meetings should be held once in two
weeks, and clothing should be made and
repaired and collected for the poor.”
Mentioned the shooting of a young lady in
the Southern States, who was trying to
protect the Elders from a mob.
	President Elmina S. Taylor, of the Y. L.
M. I. A., felt that she had lost much by
not being able to attend our meetings.
“The Relief Society has been the greatest
blessing of my life. No true and faithful
worker in the Relief Society is in danger of
apostatizing.” Was sorry to hear that
some of the branches had stopped their
work meetings, and President Horne had
not given any instruction for this
change.
	Sister Mary Freeze was the next speaker.
She felt thankful for the spirit of obedience
with which she had been blest. There is
a certain reverence due those who are
placed to preside over us. Felt to love
and honor those whom the Lord loved and
honored. Said all should live nearer to
their Heavenly Father, for the reins will be
drawn tighter, and those desiring to partici-
pate in the blessings of the Temple must
live better. Believed that the people were
endeavoring to do better in the matter of
tithing. When we do learn to obey our
Father, we will then be prepared to receive
fully the teachings that are given from
time to time.
	Sister Camilla C. Cobb felt humble, and
felt as though the best women on earth were
associated here. Desired to be active in
the discharge of her duties. Was engaged
now, and always had been engaged in the
training of children. Bore a faithful testi-
mony to the truth of the Gospel, and de-
clared herself to be anxious to do her duty
in every way. Hoped we would be pre-
pared for the sifting time, which is surely
near at hand.
	Conference adjourned to meet on the 2nd
of December. Singing, Doxology. Pray-
er by Elder C. J. Thomas.
			AUGUSTA W. GRANT, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING. 
	Semi-Monthly Meeting of August 5th,
1899, in the 14th ward hall, Counselor
Elizabeth Webb presiding. Singing, "God
moves in a mysterious way." Prayer by
Sister Margaret P- Young. Singing,
“Arise, O glorious Zion." Minutes read
and approved.
	President M. I. Horne hoped the sisters
were not losing interest in this and other
meetings. Thought at the present time
more diligence was required of us. Spoke
of the law of tithing, and the necessity of
our observing this law; believed if we
did all the poor could be cared for, the
Temples supplied, and there would not be
a debt upon the Church. Spoke of the
necessity of mothers teaching their chil-
ren to be tithe-payers. There will only be
a few chosen to do the important things of
God’s work. "Let us wake up and not be
always the sleepy virgins. Let us appre-
ciate what God has given us and pay our
fast donations, for this is a law of the
Church." 
	Sister Jane James rejoiced that she had
had the privilege to see the Prophet Joseph
Smith.
	Sister Mary Morris made some excellent
remarks.
	President Zina D. H. Young said: "We
are all seeking after truth." Exhorted all
to come to meeting and bring their friends.
"God had said meet often and speak often
one to another, and a book of remembrance
is kept." Spoke of the necessity of women
keeping the commandments of God, for we
all feel the influence in our homes and else-
where. 
	Sister Brown believed all should come
together and hear the testimonies of
one another; she always loved to tell of the
glorious principles of the Gospel.
Sister Armeda Young spoke of the love
she felt for Sister Zina and Sister Horne,
our leaders; of her faith in the law of tith-
ing.
	Sister Nightingale spoke of the blessings
of the Lord to her, and desired to have
wisdom to raise her children.
	Another sister spoke of the promises 
God had made to the widows: they had
been fulfilled in her behalf. Spoke of the
increase of faith in her children through
the law of tithing.
	Sister Phelps believed a dark day was
coming to prove the Saints. She then
spoke in tongues; the interpretation was
given by Sister Maria Y. Dougall.
	Sister Mair said she had received a great
many testimonies by attending these meet-
meetings. Thought we should attend to
our children and teach them by example.
	Sister Ellis had many things to be thank-
ful for. She always had a testimony.
	Sister Margaret P. Young had embraced 
the Gospel more than fifty years ago, and
she had always tried to obey the priest-
hood and attend to her duties. She had
ever honored President Brigham Young,
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith said she had
always loved President Brigham Young
and those who had succeeded him.
	Sister Liddle spoke of the blessings of
the Lord to her, and her firm belief in the
law of tithing.
	Sisters J. S. Woolley, Mary Morris and
Julia C. Howe, bore testimonies. 
President M. I. Home thought we should
increase in numbers. Announced the con-
ference to be held September 2nd; also
spoke of the necessity of storing grain.

[Column 2]
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing Doxology. Benediction by Sister.
Brown.
J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.

	Minutes of meeting, held in the 14th
ward hall, August 19, 1899, Counselor E.
J. Stevenson presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing "Redeemer
of Israel," Prayer by Counselor Steven-
son. Singing, "Lord we come before Thee
now."
	Sister Stevenson said that President
Horne had gone south. Trusted that
while we were together we should have a
profitable time. "I am now, and have
been, passing through, it seems to me, the
most severe trial of my life. But the
Lord knows why; I am trying to acknowl-
edge His hand and say ‘Thy will, O Lord,
not mine, be done.’ This is what we all
have to come to. We are told we are to be
tried like gold, seven times purified in the
furnace, and the Lord knows what will try
us most." Admonished the sisters to be
faithful and true to their covenants, 
and go to the Temple whenever possible; it would
give them renewed power to overcome;
that is what we need continually.
	Sister Shaw said: "I feel to rejoice that
I am here this afternoon, and enjoy the
good spirit. I feel thankful for the Gospel.
I came here when I was a young girl and I
have tried to bring my children up in the
right way. I have done a great deal of
Temple work and I hope to do more. I
thank the Lord for all His goodness to me."
	Sister Dickison said: "That I may keep
faithful is the greatest desire of my heart.
The greatest blessing is the spirit of the
Lord. He has lengthened out my days
through obedience to His laws. I have
tried to live right; to be an example to
those around me. I thank the Lord for the
privilege of coming to Zion. I prayed to
the Lord when a child, and I was healed
by the power of God, and promised I
should be better and gather to Zion, and
that the angels of the Lord should adminis-
to me in times of need, which has been
verified. What a testimony it has been to
me! We now live in a time when we
need a great testimony. Let us be honest
in our dealings with each other and the
world. We all have an experience to pass
through. I have great faith in the Gospel.
We should live our religion. I have had
many testimonies. I desire to teach my
children to do right. My children are all
to me." She then referred to poor Sister
Howard’s great grief in the accident to her
little boy.
	Sister Stevenson felt thankful for the
very pleasant interview we had enjoyed
and the good spirit that had been with us;
and suggested that we offer a special prayer
for the afflicted mother and friends in this
terrible accident, and for others who are
afflicted; also announced the conference in
two weeks at the Assembly Hall.
Meeting adjourned for four weeks. Sing-
ing, Doxology. Benediction by Sister
Whitehouse.
	E. J. S., Sec. pro tem.


“Every night this same lady sits in front
of us with her big hat!” said a playgoer to
his companion. “Sir,” snapped the
lady referred to, turning sharply around
upon the speaker, “I wear a different hat
every night.”


NOTES.
	“MRS. IDA H. HARPER, since the close of
the Women’s International Council, has
been sight-seeing in England, Scotland and
Ireland. She expects to visit friends in St.
Petersburg, and to return about December
1, to Washington, where she will spend
the winter.’’
	“THE convention of the National Army
Nurses’ Association, at Philadelphia, Sep.
6, had an unusually large attendance The
feature of the session was the appearance of
Miss Clara Barton, of the Red Cross Society,
who made an address. Mrs. Elizabeth W.
Ewing, of Phoenixville, Penn , president of
the association, submitted her annual re-
port, and those of other officers were read."


Save Your Money!
		And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors 
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN- 
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

Mother: “I am surprised, my dear, that
you suffer a man to kiss you!” Daughter:
“But mamma I don’t call it suffering.”

Dr. Margaret G. Roberts
Will commence her next CLASS IN
OBSTETRICS AND NURSING on
Monday, Oct. 16th, 1899.
	Address 75 North, State St., Salt
Lake City.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY. 

The Leading Retail
Cash House. 
R. K. THOMAS


Woman's Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
vol. 28 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1899. No. 10.


CONTENTS.
Beautiful English Homes. . . . . . C. S. Robinson	57.
Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting . . J. S. Woolley	58.
A Woman Missionary . . . . . Mrs. Addison Pratt	59.
Visit Through St. George. . . A.nn C. Woodbury	61.
R. S. Report—Sanpete . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	62.
Obituary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	63.
Deborah Sampson—A Woman of the Revolution
	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Alice Burke	63.
Fiftieth Anniversary Woman’s Medical Col-
	leg. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Elizabeth L. Peck	64.
EDITORIAL:—General Conference . . . . . . . . .	60.
	The First State Fair . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	60.
	Editorial Notes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	60.
POETRY—On the U. S. M. Steamer. L. D. Alder	57.
	Mother and Daughter . . . . . Shirley Wynne	59.
	For Ever. . . . . . . . . . . . . . C. E. C. Weigall 	59.


[Column 1]
ON THE U. S. M. STEAMER.
		ST. PAUL.

			I.
Sailing, sailing, sailing over the sea so blue,
Away from fair America. the land we love so 
	true.
Our ship’s the brave St. Paul, renowned in Spanish 
	strife,
Bound o’er the rippling waters, filled with human
	life. 
Cannons belched their murderous fires, through
	her railings white,
And twice the Spanish chased her, yet she gained
	the fight;
And once she carried home, a host of heroes dead—
Hundreds sleeping on her decks, Death’s mantle
	o’er them spread; 
True to her trust she proved, and brought them
	home to lie,
Near their cherished homes, ’neath Columbia’s fair
	sky.
And many died as heroes die, while on the home-
	ward way.
And o’er her side were cast to sleep, until the Res-
	urrection Day. 
The ship that carried hundreds dead, unto their
	native land, 
Gave to the waves their precious dust—they noth-
	ing more could stand

			II.
And she escaped the Spanish foe, winning in the
	fight,
Triumphant left them far behind, in the closing 
	night.
Now she salis in peace—murderous war is o’er, 
And carries sons and daughters back to some
	fair, foreign shore; 
Hearts beat fast to view again, the spot that gave
	them birth, 
But O, so sad for e’en awhile, to leave behind the
	best loved spot of earth!
Songs floating o’er the waters, with the violin’s
	sweet voice, 
And the waves so smoothly rippling, in the melo-
	dies rejoice, 
And lightly feet trip now, where once the warriors
	lay;
The spot speaks volumes yet, to those who live to-
	day.
And once a daughter true, weighted down with
	years,
Was coming home again, her loved to meet with
	happy tears;
But Death again came on the ship, only a day
	from shore,
And closed her weary eyelids down, to beam on
	earth no more.

			III.
The night was dark and murky, her loved ones
	wept aloud,
With a cruel iron at hre side, and canvas for a 
	shroud,

[Column 2]
She finds a grave deep in the sea, just in sight of
	home,
Hearts beat for them in sympathy, uttering many
	a moan.
Died in sight of home, buried beneath the restless
	sea,
The dear old eyes can weep no more, but greet
	with joy Eternity.
The eleon waves wail her requiem, the song the
	others sing,
That sleep beneath the briny deep, that ever moan-
	ings bring, 
Moan, moan, will their moanings never cease,
	never die?
Must hearts be always breaking, beneath a sullen
	sky?
No! God will say some day, “"Come from the sea
	ye dead;
O sea, give up thy treasures, hidden in thy bed,
Where diamonds gleam and glitter amid their
	floating hair,
Come forth and view again, Nature’s face so
	fair.”
			IV.
And the Sexton of the sea, must bring his treasures
	forth
That in his bosom, close hath lain, those of care 
	and worth.  
The sun sets blazing bright as gold, where sky
	and waters meet,
And a crimson path comes o’er the wave, to the
	vessel’s feet;
A highway on the waters, no mortal foot can
	tread,
A glory hanging in the sky, now darkening over-
	head.
And then the Night her curtain draws, leaving
	out the light,
That sinks beneath the waves, away from distant
	sight,
Save where reflected in the sky, are bars of shaded
	gold,
Ascending like the ladder, seen by the one of
	old.
Yet clear the steps seem more defined, reaching to
	the sky,
On these rounds do angels come, when we are
	called to die?
Bearing the spirit now released to the home of
	love,
To where the many mansions glisten up above?

			V
But night has come, dark clouds hang low
	around,
Mid the whispering of the waves, and the puffing
	steamer’s sound,
Now the last day faintly beams in the brightening
	sky,
And now to many friends we’ve won a last, a
	long good bye.
This as a world has been to us, gathered from
	every part,
But now Good Bye, our paths in life must grow
	apart,
And ne’er again may clasp of hand, greet us on
	Life’s way.
Our lives have met, our paths crossed o’er, we
	part again today,
So now good bye, like other days this last day can-
	not stay.
St. Paul so famed in days of old, Christ’s disciple
	firm and true,
Oft to our minds a thought has come, of work
	performed by you.
Your glory gathers day by day, the world your
	force and power prize,
Your words and sayings lauded now, even to the
	skies.
We think of how you proudly stood, before the
	Roman cold and proud, 
And Christ your Lord defended, in voice severe
	and loud.
And our St. Paul’s been faithful, too, bringing us
	safely o’er, 
Today we greet with thankful hearts, fair Eng-
	land’s welcome shore.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.
	June 7, 1898, on the St. Paul.


BEAUTIFUL ENGLISH HOMES.
	For many a day to come interesting
events in connection with the International
Congress of Women convened in London,
will be recurring to the mind, furnishing
topics for conversation and data for innum-
erable letters and papers.
	The reception given to delegates and
speakers by the Queen, overshadows in
importance, perhaps, all others of a like
nature tendered by “Old England” through
her most hospitable subjects. Certain it is,
nothing was omitted which could conduce
to the comfort and pleasure of her guests.
There are, however, individual experiences
of English hospitality which surpass all
that can be met with in attendance at pub-
lic functions, even though they be tend-
ered by high functionaries or the nobility
itself. A glimpse of ideal English life is
never afforded the tourist as such, and only
an exceptional opportunity makes it possible
for a stranger to come in touch with that
amiable class which is not of the mass, nor
yet of the nobility, but whose culture places
them so distinctly from the former and
superior to the latter, that it makes an
indelible impression on the mind, of an
American; not because America does not
produce this class, but because it empha-
sizes the fact that in every civilized nation
this class arises under every form of
government, but is large or small according
to the number and varieties of opportunities,
which reflects the advantage or disadvan-
tage of any form of government. 
	With this class of our English cousins,
there is neither ostentation nor gilded
misery, but that conservatism which creates
for themselves a world into which a self-
made man or woman, worthy achieve-
ments may enter, or through whose portals
acceptable members of the nobility may
glide, and yet all known to the world at
large only by impress made upon the pub-
lic welfare.
	The International Congress of women
afforded the opportunity in many cases to
observe this side of English life. Particu-
larly fortunate was the woman who fell to
the lot of Mrs. Sam Garrett. It was not
altogether a matter of chance either, for
Mrs. Garrett agreed to entertain a guest if
she could choose the nationality, and even
America may feel proud that she was her
choice. Fortunate indeed was Mrs. Gar-
rett’s guest.
	Mr. Sam Garrett, Fellow of Peter
House College, is a member of the incor-
porated Law Society and Law Club, and
Senior partner of the leading law firm in
London. Every one knows what that
means, and Mr. Garrett is all that one
would expect to find in a man of his posi-
tion. Mrs. Garrett is a superb example
of the type of English woman immortal-
zed by writers of prose and poetry. By
the merry twinkle in the eyes of both hus
band and wife, one is at a loss to discover
which bears the stamp of reflection and
comes to the conclusion that it is the com-
plement of each other. 
	This delightful couple have five sons:


[Column 1]
Douglas, Harry, (who is a skilled cricketer)
Ronald, Brian and dear little Jeffry. There
is one daughter with an impressive counte-
nonce, and fair Marjory just blossoming into
young womanhood. This charming girl, 
bubbling over with enthusiasm, artless
and guileless, was indeed refreshing to be-
hold and one could not help but feel re-
gret that custom makes the American child
so different. It is true we would not ex-
change our American girl after she has
entered her teens, for the girl of any
nationality on earth but the ingenuous-
ness which prompted Marjory’s answer.
“I am going to be a mother,” when asked
what she desired to be when she “grew
up,” is rare—all too rare—in American
children. Marjory’s response involves
more than individual sentiments; it exem-
plifies the fact that the home is recognized
not only as the basis of society, but that it
is the ideal of English life and womanhood.
In their homes the care and worriment of
business is not carried; the appointments
are conducive to “solid comfort:” the
service is skilled; literature and art commin-
gle, while refinement and joyousness per-
vade the atmosphere, rendering a happy
freedom amid the old world convention-
alities.
	To describe Mrs. Garrett’s home in de-
tail would seem sacrilege. Those who
are familiar with the English home will
appreciate this glimpse; those who are not
must rest content till an opportunity is
afforded them to learn for themselves, but
must rest content in the belief that there
are hosts of other homes counterparts of
this one, several of which are mentioned
below, and to which Mrs. Garrett escorted
her guest, who was an invited speaker to
the Congress, and thus escaped the duties
devolving upon a delegate and was left
free to attend public functions or obtain a
glimpse of English home and social life. It
is needless to say the latter was chosen in 
almost every instance with the exception of
the receptions given by Her Majesty, the
Queen; that of Lady Aberdeen, at the In-
stitute of Water Colors; that of Lady War-
wick, and that of the Pioneer Club. As an
escort this English hostess proved so wise
and agreeable that her guest was quite
willing to say, when asked her approval of
plans for her entertainment and pleasure,
“Whither thou goest, I will go,” then it 
was that the first glimpse of a semi-public
social nature was received at the Pioneer
Club.
	This is the leading club for women
in London. It has a capacious mansion
in Grafton Street for its home. Its draw-
ing room, library, music room, refectory
and, last, but not least, its smoking-rooms
are all suitably equipped. The program was
admirable and the occasion enjoyable. Many
American women added interest to the
entertainment. The following were
among the notable English women: Miss
Lilly Hanbury, Lady Elizabeth Cust, Miss
Chapman, (a well-known writer) Mrs. Sib-
thorpe, (editor of Shafts) Dr. Helen Webb,
Madame Sterling, Miss Pendlington, Miss
Query, Miss Pelham and the Hon. Marie
Davis.
	As the days slipped by, the reception
given by the Pioneer Club was followed by
“At Homes” at the following: Mr. and 
Mrs. Henry Fawcett, authors of the well
known book on “Political Economy,” both
L. L. D’s of note. Mrs. Fawcett was as-
sisted by Miss Agnes Garrett and Miss
Fawcett. Another “At Home” was given

[Column 2]
by Mrs. Q. MacDonnell, niece to Mary
Howit, where we had the pleasure of meet-
ing Lady Hamilton, Sir Joshua and Lady
Fitch, Sir Robert Hunter and wife and
many other distinguished people.
	One pleasant afternoon was spent at the
garden party given by Mrs. Waller and her
husband, Dr. Waller, a celebrated physician,
who, after feasting our eyes and ears upon
the varied entertainment and a stroll about
the beautiful grounds, accorded us the hon-
or of a glimpse into his laboratory.
	The “At Home” of Mrs. Garrett-Ander-
son, that beloved philanthropist and physi-
cian of note, was made particularly inter-
esting by the presence of Rev. Dr. Howis
and daughter, Mrs. Charlick, Mrs. Mar-
shall, M. D., and Mrs. Ayrton, the only 
woman who has read a paper before the
Royal Society.
	So much for London homes; but that
was not enough. A glimpse was afforded
of the country home at Weybridge of Mr.
Charles Swinfern Eady, Q. C., and Mrs.
Eady. Mr. Eady was one of three men-
tioned for judge, and as he seemed to be
the choice, he has, no, doubt, by this time
ascended to that exalted position. Mr.
Eady’s home was once that of the Duke of
York, and its glories are commensurate to
the requirements of such a personage. Its
oaks and beaches are among the glories of
“Old Eagland.” There is one great beach
tree whose trunk to be encircled requires 
the clasped hands of three adults. The outer
branches touch the ground and form shelter
for many rustic seats beneath their mighty 
shade. The house is not the original one,
but built in Italian style, after the house of
Paura. Its spacious courts with chambers
spreading in all directions; adorned with
paintings and bric-a-brac supplements the
appointments requisite to this house of
wealth and culture. Mr. Eady takes much 
pride in his fruiteries, and well he may.
The great vines under cover laden with
nectarines, peaches, muscots, hamburgs or
figs, as the case may be, are all evidences
of the luxury in this beautiful home. This
gentleman affable and entertaining, was 
the architect of these fruiteries. This hap-
py home is presided over by Mrs. Eady, a
charming young wife, hospitable and cor-
dial, who has graced the home with a
daughter, now four years of age and the
embodiment of daintiness, little Miss Dora-
thy.
	In all the round of pleasure the inner 
man was not neglected, though little need
be said on that score, for everyone who
knows anything of English life, knows
that eating and tea drinking is never
scorned.
	Between times places of interest were
visited that need not be enumerated here,
excepting to say that Hyde Park was seen 
in all its natural and fashionable glory, and
as the season had not yet ended, it was a 
sight never to be forgotten.
	There are other phases of London life—
some to be deplored, some to be pitied,
some to be scorned and some to be con-
demned—but nothing can efface the mem-
ory of the ideal English home.
		CORNIELIA S. ROBINSON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


“Are you the defendant in this case?”
asked the judge sharply. “No, sah," an-
swered the mild-eyed prisoner. “I has a
lawyer hired to do de defendin’. I’s de
man dat done stole de ahticles.”


LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	The Semi-Monthly Meeting of Sep. 16,
1899, held in the 14th ward hall, opened
by singing “Come let us anew. Prayer by
Counselor Elizabeth Webb. Singing,
“Come, O Thou King of kings.” Minutes
read and accepted.
	President Horne referred to a letter she
had received from Sister L. D. Alder in
England. She said the sisters there longed
for the day when they could come to Zion.
Thought it was sorrowful to see how little
the blessings bestowed upon us are appre-
ciated. The promise of the Lord willthe
not be fulfilled to us unless we keep
commandments He has given. Spoke of
the Word of Wisdom, and the wonderful
blessings we were to receive by observing
it. Referred to the wars, and how peace is
being taken from the earth in the fulfilling
of prophecy. Spoke upon the law of tith-
ing and the necessity of every man, woman
and child having their names upon the
tithing list. Said we should not do as
ancient Israel did, and rob God in tithes and
offerings. We are prospered and blessed in
every way, and do not appreciate the bless-
ings. Felt all would be able to have a bet-
ter spirit at home if we would attend to our
meetings.
	Sister Jane James spoke in tongues and
it was interpreted.
	Sister Martha Barrow bore a good testi-
mony.
	The congregation sang “The spirit of
God like a fire is burning.”
	President Bathsheba W. Smith said she
thought the sisters could meet together and
bring the spirit of God with them; we can
take it home with us, or wherever we go,
and be benefiting each other. Was glad
she was acquainted with the Prophet
Joseph, his wife Emma and his brothers
and sisters; she knew he was a prophet of
God. Said she wanted to keep her record
clean and keep all the commandments of
God.
	Counselor E. J. Stevenson said she had
been greatly blessed. Referred to her trip
to Summit Co., and said that the sisters
there enjoyed a visit from the sisters here,
and how they wished to come and visit the
Temple. Exhorted all to be honest with
each other and with the Lord. Thought it
a privilege to pay tithing.
	Sister Martha A. Morris sang “Redeemer
of Israel,” and a sister in the congregation
bore her testimony.
	Sister Dakin spoke of her trials, and how
she was trying to feel “Thy will, not mine,
be done,” and believed she was learning
the lesson.
	Sister Witdsoe spoke of how the Lord had
blessed her in days that are passed; how
she had received visions and dreams for her
benefit. Alluded to the watch-care of our
Heavenly Father.
	Sister Sarah Bateman felt thankful that
the Lord had lengthened her days, and that
she was privileged to work in the Temple.
She was the only one on either her father’s
or mother’s side to do Temple work.
	Sister Almeda S. Young alluded to
the teachings of Prophet Lorenzo Snow,
that in paying our tithing the earth would
be consecrated for our sake.
	Sister Horne said those who do not pay
their tithes and offerings, this land cannot
be a Zion unto them.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing, Doxology. Prayer by President M. I.
Horne.
				J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
Last spring I saw them seated side by side,
	In the bright ending of the long bright day—
One old, who still her busy needles plied,
	One young, who let her happy dreams have way,
“How fair the day has been, and life is fair!”
	Murmured the maiden. “But, thank God, it
		ends!”
Replied the mother, on her daughters hair
	Laying her hand a moment “and life wends!”
The young girl, smiling, let her rosy dreams
	Of long glad years to come unchecked flow on,
As through the golden sunlight streams
	That the blue cloudless skies gaze down upon.
The aged woman looked towards the hill 
	By the old church where lay the dead at rest,
And sighed her shining needles growing still—
	Life for the young; death for the old is best.”
Later I sauntered by the cottage gate,
	And lo, the white-haired mother sat alone
Bearing life’s sorrows still, while—bitter fate!—
	The maiden to her last long rest had gone!
						SHIRLEY WYNNE.


FOR EVER.
If I had thought our parting was for ever,
			I should have wept,
That day when ’twixt the low hill and the heather
			The dead day crept— 
If I had thought that no more should we linger,
			Just you and I,
Without between us one disturbing finger,
			Beyond the sky 
And great sad sea that now has rolled between us,
			And then so still,
Calm as the day when from the salt foam Venus
			Rose of Jove’s will—
If I had thought—Nay, rather thinking over
			Of days long gone,
I can look back, remembering, though we sever,
			Our hearts are one!
					C. E. C. WEIGALL,


[Column 1]
A WOMAN MISSIONARY.
	[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands
1850.]
			[Continued.]
	On the 25th day Mr. Pratt and myself
went on horseback to the village opposite;
had a delightful ride. I was charmed with
the scenery as we rode on the banks: the
tall ito trees overshadowing us, some of the
branches extending more than fifty feet,
forming a complete shade. It was low
water and the beach was covered with a
variety of shells. We reached the village
about 4 o’clock p. m.; distance, fifteen
miles. The native friends gave us a
reception, set food before us, and I do not
remember ever having enjoyed a meal
more.
	That night there was a severe gale of
wind on the sea; the waves roared like
thunder. We were alarmed for the safety
of a ship which we knew was lying in the
harbor at Mataura. We spent the evening
in telling interesting stories about America.
The people were greatly amused with my
description of the camps crossing the plains;
of the herds of buffalos, and all, to them,
wonderful things. They praised me for
being able in their tongue to say so much
intelligibly. The name of the brother who
entertained us was “Ruitora,” which
means in English “three nights.” He s a
wise man, very desirous of gaining light
and knowledge.
	Monday 26 we started home. It was
high tide, and in some places the water
was very deep on the beach. A view of
the sea was grand! Far off, near the reef,
the waters were a clear, bright color of
blue and green intermingled. The reflec-
tion of the sun upon it gave it a spangled
appearance, as though ten thousand dia-
monds were glittering there. Ah,
hought I, your beauty displays itself to 

[Column 2]
he eye, but your threatening voice warns
us that death is concealed beneath your
billows!
	When we reached home we found that
the vessel of whose danger we had fears,
had been driven on the rocks; many men
were engaged in getting her off. The trees
near the house had been stripped of their
verdure and the ground was covered with
foliage. It was the brig Ann, Captain
Harrington from Tahiti. He brought a
quantity of goods, a little damaged, of
which, in exchange for trade, I obtained
one hundred and twenty-four yards of
cloth. Although we are placed here with
no salary, and forbidden by the French
government to demand anything of the peo-
ple, yet the Lord provides for us; all our
wants are provided for. The missionaries
can go to the fields and shoot wild fowl and
ducks about, and the tarrow patches are
free. So the poor Elders can sustain them-
selves and teach the people, not for hire, but
looking for a reward with the ancient Apos-
tles, who preached the Gospel without
purse or scrip.
	We have three little girls in our family
teaching them the English language. It
is really an agreeable task; to discover their
powers of mind and their aptness to learn,
fully compensates us for our labor.
	When these children are first taken from 
their homes, they are extremely wild. Very
soon, however, they become domesticated.
It is amusing to see them try to imitate the
white children. They have most melodious
voices, which seem to be a redeeming ac-
complishment. The grown people are
nearly all fond of reading. The old chief
who waits on us is often heard in his sleep-
ing apartment till a late hour in the night
reading his Bible. Could they have books
printed in their own language, on which to
devote their great leisure, how much they
might be improved. Few indeed they
have except their Bibles and hymn books,
and precious treasures they are to the poor,
honest souls who know so little of the
world. Occasionally for the benefit of the
missionary children, we have a discourse in
our own language. At such times we all
feel edified and comforted. The natives
listen attentively, but not a word do they
understand.
	August 17, a native brother and sister
came in to be instructed from the Bible.
While their teacher was thus employed, I
stole outside and retired to the far end of
the garden. I had been feeling lonely; a
word of reproof had fallen on my ears,
which heightened my sadness. I hurried
to seek a secluded spot, where unperceived
I could indulge in prayer and meditation.
The footpath led underneath large trees.
The stars were peering out in all their re-
splendent brightness; the blue sky shone in
tranquil beauty; the moon was gone, and
the twilight shades seemed passing lovely;
the wind was low; all was still but for the
loud roar of the old ocean’s waves, they
murmured in the distance; the air, oh, so
mild and balmy!
	I sat down in the green grass—the spot
seemed sacred. I gazed into the starry
heavens and thought of the bright world
where our Savior dwells. I thought of the
dear sisters in the valley of the mountains
and longed to commune with them. I felt 
to love those most who, like me, had sor-
rows. So clings the heart to objects assimu-
lated to it. I prayed earnestly for a sub-
missive spirit. Presently a calm came over
me; it seemed the foretaste of happier days;

[Column 3]
it was sweet and silent; it impressed m
that holy beings were near me. I had
been thinking of blighted joys; of dayf
when I looked upon the world as full oe
charms: of the change that came over my
brightest prospects, and how my sun of
hope went down in early life. Then I re-
membered how the bright and glorious
morning star of the Gospel had arisen in
my horizon; with what enthusiasm I had
obeyed its mandates; what danger I had en-
countered, and what deliverance I had
found. A holy calm came over me. I looked
towards the window; the light was extin-
guished. I hurried to the house, fearing
to meet a reproof, which I did, but it could
not disturb my peace. I did not plead for
an apology that I had been alone with God
and nature; that my saddened heart was
comforted. I had passed self-approving     
hours and a great burden was removed. In
secret I thanked the Lord. 
	Today, 22nd of August, arrived the
schooner Ravai from Tahiti. We were all
greatly rejoiced to see her safely landed in
the harbor once more. There had been
severe gales of wind, which had caused us
great anxiety. A native by the name of
Hamutua, and family, came on the vessel.
They brought their children, seven in num-
ber, and presented them to us, saying
“Here are your children, we commit them
to your care, do with them as you think
proper.” They are very good children.
	Oh, what a work there is to be done
here! Who will do it? If the children
were cultivated they wrould be gentle and
amiable like our own children. Those just
committed to our care are beautiful singers.
They seem delighted to have it in their
power to entertain their teachers, and
show no backwardness when called upon
to sing, as our children often do. Their
hymn books are opened on the instant, and
each one knows his part.
	About the 25th, J. Layton brought a bar-
rel of flour from Tahiti. This was indeed a
luxury, having lived a long time wholly on
the native food. Still we did not crave it
to make bread, from that we were entirely
weaned. The bread fruit, tarrow and
sweet potatoes more than supplied its place,
but for pie crust it was a great article. Any-
thing made of flour the children regard the
same as ours relish candy.
	On the 29th, the whole family went to
Mahu (the other village) and left me alone
with the house to keep. I was delighted
with the prospect of enjoying quietude for
a few days. The first morning Brother B.
F. Grouard called and took breakfast with
me. We talked of his lengthy residence
among the Islands; of his desire to return
to the body of the Church. The idea of going
to Salt Lake and meeting his old friends
seems to him a foretaste of heaven. I
hope and pray he may not be disappointed;
but tied as he is with a native wife and a
family of children, the way seems dark and
uncertain. He feels that domestic happiness
has not yet fallen to his lot, and he sighs
for it in secret. How hard it is for us to
redeem ourselves from a misstep in youth!
The effect of it must follow us even to old
age. As we sow, thus we must reap. The
blessings flowing from the Gospel, I trust,
will redeem this brother of whom I write,
and he may yet rejoice in the land of Zion,
with a companion congenial to his nature.
I bade him hope, and trust in Him who
“moves in a mysterious way His wonders 
to perform.”
		[To be continued.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah,
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months.
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00, A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1899.


[Column 1]

		GENERAL CONFERENCE.

    The Semi-Annual Conference of the
Church, held during this month, was one
of great interest and had a very large attend-
ance. The weather was particularly fine,
and President Lorenzo Snow opened the
conference on the morning of the 6th of
October, with a voice as clear and resonant
as when a young man. The speaker
seemed to have an unusual flow of the
Spirit of his calling in the holy priesthood.
There are very few men at his age who
could make themselves heard in that great
Tabernacle. Other speakers were eloquent
and earnest in carrying out the counsel
given by the President; the law of conse-
cration and the law of tithing were ex-
plained and expounded, paragraphs were
read in relation to these subjects from the
Doctrine and Covenants, also the Millennial
Star, and much good instruction was given
by President Snow, his counselors and the
Apostles. The music throughout the
meetings of the conference was of an ex-
alted character, the singing at times par-
ticularly partaking of a divine power. This
was very marked on Sunday afternoon,
when the choir rendered the favorite hymn
of the Latter-day Saints, “O, my Father,”
which invariably touches a tender chord
and awakens the most sacred emotions in
the hearts of those who listen.
    The authorities of the Church were pre-
sented to the assembly and sustained by
unanimous vote of the multitude, including
the officers of all organizations auxiliary
thereto, the Relief Society, the Sunday
School, the Y. L. M. I. A. and the Primary
Association.
    An over-flow meeting was held simul-
taneously with that in the Tabernacle,
where the same good spirit prevailed, and
the speakers were equally blest with a por-
tion of the Holy Spirit. The people cannot
but be impressed with the declaration of
President Snow, that the Lord manifested to
him that he should teach the people to observe
the law of tithing; and it must be a great
consolation to those that have been neg-
lectful of this law that the Lord, through
President Snow, has said He will forgive
the Latter-day Saints for this past negli-
gence, if in the future they will observe
this law, but He will not look with forbear-
ance upon further negligence in keeping
this law.
    President Snow closed his remarks upon
this subject on Saturday morning in the
following words:
    “The time has now come when the Lord

[Column 2]
is ready to bestow upon us his choicest
blessings. We are not to contend with our
enemies. All mankind are our brethren
and sisters, and we are not to seek to de-
stroy them. If those who are now con-
tending against us only knew what we
know, they would cease to contend against
us; and sometime they will know.”

		RELIEF SOCIETY.
    The Relief Society Conference was held
in three sessions, morning afternoon and
evening, twenty Stakes out of forty were
represented, and all were reported favorably.
	The morning meeting was devoted to
officers altogether, many questions being
asked by those from a distance and answered
from the stand by President Z. D. H.
Young and others. One of the subjects
presented was in reference to the nursing
class which Dr. Roberts will teach under
the auspices of the Relief Society, and the
presidents in the northern part of the Stake
were notified of the offer made to them to
send students this fall, classes to commence
in November, and continue seven months.
The good work of the trained nurses in
this Stake was alluded to and commended.
    There was a very good attendance in the
afternoon and evening, and the meeting in
the afternoon was favored by a solo, given
by Miss Bessie Edmonds, accompanied on
the organ by Professor Stevens. Miss
Edmonds has a clear sweet voice, and
rendered pathetically ‘‘Eyes That Are
Weary.” In the evening, Mrs. Mary F.
Kelly, leader of a choir of young girls,
furnished the music; and it was pleasant to
hear their rich, melodious voices, and added
greatly to the effect of the meeting. Mrs.
Kelly is a very efficient choir leader, and
the society feels greatly indebted to her
and her choir for their vocal and instru-
mental music. Minutes of the conference
will be published later.


[Column 1]

		THE FIRST STATE FAIR.

	The Deseret Agricultural and Manu-
facturing Society has this year given solid
evidence of enterprise and hard work in
carefully preparing and manipulating most
successfully the first State Fair, which
opened in the Exposition Building and
grounds in this city, on Monday, October
2, at 2 p. m.
	There was a very large crowd of
people present at the opening exercises.
Held’s band discoursed fine music, and
there were seated on the stand, Presidents
Lorenzo Snow and George Q. Cannon, with
several of the Apostles; President Winder,
of the D. A. and M. Society; Secretary
Hammond and some other State officials
and directors of the society who had been
active in the Fair work.
	President Winder called the assembly to
order, and introduced Father Kielly who
offered an appropriate prayer of thanks-
giving and gratitude to God for His bless-
ings and mercies to the people of this
State, acknowledging in fervent earnest-
ness His divine love and wisdom.
	Secretary Hammond made a brief speech
in which he stated that the last words
Gov. Wells said before leaving for the East
to welcome the nation’s heroes, was an ex-
pression of regret at not being able to be
present at the opening of the Fair. The
speaker was proud to welcome the people
of Utah to the State Fair, and made some
happy remarks and suggestions suited to
the occasion. 

[Column 2]
	President Winder stated clearly some
pertinent facts in relation to the history of
Fairs in Utah, past and present, and thanked
the Great Giver of all good for being able
to enjoy the distinction of being among the
promoters of the first State Exposition in
Utah; and after a few more words of greet-
ing, he declared the Fair formerly opened.
	To attempt in detail any description of
the exhibit would be quite impossible in
our columns, but we can briefly express
pleasure and delight that the showing was
so creditable as a whole, and in many par-
ticulars excellent. The woman’s depart-
ment made a good display of fine needle-
work, lace, embroidery and elaborate fancy
work of various kinds. The silk exhibit
was especially good, though we cannot
itemize, yet every one must see that there
is in this industry a potent factor of future
wealth for Utah. Mrs. Margaret A. Caine
with cocoons and silk in all its preparatory
stages, and its final development in dress
goods, etc., and Mrs. Hugh Dougall with
her practical methods and results, and her
fine and elegant pillow lace of silk, made
one anxious to push the silk industry for-
ward more effectually.
	The educational showing was excellent,
and speaks well for the future of the chil-
dren of our new State along these lines.
	There were some good specimens of
painting and coloring on canvas and china
that showed distinct talent in this direction,
a few were particularly good. Perhaps
there is too little encouragement given in
this line to induce those who have gifts,
talents and inclination in this direction to
devote time and care to make finished artis-
tic work on canvas. The china is much
more mechanical and requires less skill and
painstaking.
	There are many things one would like to
mention, but just now the daily papers
have given considerable space to the ex-
hibits. However, we cannot but admire
the persistency and diligence which
the lady directors, Mrs. Bamberger and
Mrs. Fox and their assistants, have shown
in their untiring work to make the best dis-
play possible in the Woman’s Department.
Let us hope that greater energy and effort
may be made by the people another year, to
bring together the best products of the
State along all lines of art and education, as
a stimulus to greater industry, enterprise
and culture.
	President Winder and the secretary,
Hon. S. W. Sears, who have spared no
pains and, in fact, the entire board of
directors, are to be congratulated on the
success of the first Fair in the new State.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	EVER since returning from abroad, we
have intended writing up interesting inci-
dents of the trip, especially the sea voyage
and interviews with distinguished people,
also descriptions of places visited and other
details that are really worth mentioning;
but so much has transpired that seemed of
greater consequence, that from time to 
time the matter has been delayed. In the
near future, however, we expect to publish
a series of articles that will give our readers
a good idea of the International Council and
Congress, and the many wonderful women
from all over the world who met in London
on this great occasion. So many of the sub-
scribers are anxious to have written ac-
counts of the places abroad that we visit e


[Column 1]
and also of the meetings of the Latter-day
Saints that we had the privilege of attend-
ing.
	LETTERS received from Mrs. Lillian M.
Hollister, of Detroit, Michigan, announce
her coming to our city for a few days. Mrs.
Hollister is the Supreme Commander of the
Supreme Hive of the Maccabees, an organ-
ization representing thousands of women
and millions of dollars. The society is
affiliated with the National Council of
Women of the United States.
	MRS. CARRIE CHAPMAN CATT, of New
York City, and Miss Mary G. Hay, of
Ohio, will be in this city October 30, and
will probably be the guests of Mrs. F. S.
Richards. Mrs. Catt is the chairman of the
Committee on Organization of the National
American Woman Suffrage Association, of
which the celebrated Miss Susan B.
Anthony is president. Miss Hay is a
member of the Committee on Organization.
These ladies come West in the interest of
suffrage, and are anxious that the four
equal suffrage states should help other
states to obtain the same rights and
privileges.
	GOVERNOR H. M. WELLS and party
have returned from New York, whither
they went to attend the Dewey celebration
and demonstrations. The Governor is in
excellent spirits, and has enjoyed all the
proceedings in which he participated. He
has met many distinguished people. He
called on President McKinley, and speaks
in glowing terms of the interview. No state
in the Union is prouder of its Chief Execu-
tive than Utah, and the people are proud to
be represented at this greatest American
demonstration by so distinguished a party
as Governor Wells and his staff, and Majors
Young and Grant, whose services to the
country entitle them to a high place in the
hearts of the people.
	MRS. REBECCA B. CHAMBERS, of Penn-
sylvania, and two other ladies, will visit
Salt Lake City on their route homeward
from Seattle, Washington, where they have
been attending a convention of the W. C.
T. U. Mrs Chambers was a member of
the Resolution Committee of the N. C. W.
last winter, and became much interested in
some of the Utah women, members of the
same committee, and has written to Miss
Ann M. Cannon, secretary of the Res. Com.,
stating she will stop over here for a few
days. One of the ladies traveling with her
is a famous singer. Mrs. Chambers ex-
pects to be here over Sunday, the 29th of
this month. It is anticipated she will be
given a reception by the ladies here who
entertain for her a high regard, and will
greatly enjoy meeting her again and giving
her a glad welcome to the City of the
Saints.
	WE acknowledge with sincere thanks the
very courteous invitation from the “Wom-
en of Indianapolis” to be present at a re-
ception given by them in honor of Mrs.
May Wright Sewall, president of the
International Council of Women, Tuesday
evening, the seventeenth of October, 1899,
at 8:30, at the Propylaeum. We are very
sorry that circumstances prevent our attend-
ing this reception, as we feel it will be a
very significant and impressive occasion.
Mrs. Sewall has been made the president of
the greatest organization of women in the
world, although, perhaps, not the largest in

[Column 2]
membership, yet it includes many women
whose grand and able deeds, as well as
rank and title, have made them specially
distinguished. Indianapolis may well be
proud to recognize in a public demonstra-
tion, a woman of its own city, who has
attained such marked distinction before the
world. The whole United States may well
be proud of a woman whose talents and
ability and her own great personality, have
entitled her to be a leader among the
women of all civilized nations.
	THE grand reception tendered to Admiral
Dewey, was the most elaborate naval dem-
onstration the country has ever witnessed
upon any occasion, and in every particular
the affair was a marked success; even the
weather was favorable, so that the street
military parades, and the out door and in-
door receptions and gatherings, had all the
advantages of fine weather. The genuine
cordiality that characterized the introduc-
tions, greetings, handshakings, toasts and
speeches, and welcomings altogether on
Admiral Dewey’s arrival, was everywhere
observable. The presentation of the “Loving
Cup” and of the sword, the gift of Con-
gress, were scenes calculated to emphasize
in the minds and hearts of the people, deeds
of heroism and valor, and awaken a strong
sentiment of patriotism. These lessons
should be valuable to the nation. Especial-
ly was the native modesty of the Admiral
apparent through it all. Whatever honors
were shown him, or gifts bestowed, he ac-
cepted all in the same gracious spirit; and
when the Admiral brought forward his
Captains and introduced them to the audi-
ence, with such hearty good-will, he cer-
tainly must have won the respect and ad-
miration, as well as the lasting love of those
brave and gallant Captains of the navy,
who had served under him so faithfully,
“These are the men who did it. Without
them I could do nothing.”
	THE last week in November, we expect
Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Stetson, poet, author
and lecturer. She is the granddaughter of
Lyman Beecher, and grand niece of Henry
Ward Beecher, Harriet Beecher Stowe, Isa-
bella Beecher Hooker. Mrs. Stetson will
be the guest of Mrs. A. W. McCune while
in Salt Lake City, and of Mrs. Susa Y.
Gates at Provo, where she is expected to
speak under the auspices of the Brigham
Young Academy. Arrangements are in
progress for a series of lectures in this city.
Mrs. Stetson not only comes of the cele-
brated Beecher stock, but is also descended
from the remarkable New England Perkins
family. It is said of her by the critics, that
“her gift of ready and eloquent speech
seems inborn, and more characteristic of
her genius than is her writing.” Some of
us who know her, feel that she is unequalled
in many ways. She is certainly a woman
of the age; a woman with a mission, un-
doubtedly. Her book, “Women and 
Economics,” is everywhere regarded as the
bravest, brightest, most original and most
readable volume on women. It has been
translated into French, German, Dutch and
Swedish, and is said to be one of the few
American books that are making a world-
appeal. Mrs. Stetson is a woman to be
listened to, and whether one agrees with
her views or not, one admires the womanly
earnestness of her speech, as also her strik-
ing appearance, which carries, with her
power of language, the conviction of her
own belief in the truths she expresses.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


VISIT THROUGH ST. GEORGE STAKE.

	I thought a few lines from this part of
the country might interest your readers.
	President Ann C. Woodbury and Coun-
selor Emma Morris, of the Relief Society,
and Rose Jarvis, of the Y. L. M. I. A.,
and Mary Whitehead, of the Primary, of
the St. George Stake of Zion, with Leon
Jarvis as teamster, left St. George on the
17th of August, to visit the settlements on
the Rio Virgen River.
	We arrived at Toquerville the same eve-
ning, and held meetings with the Relief
Society, Young Ladies’ and Primary.
	On the 28th we went on to Virgen City
at 10 a. m., met with the Relief Society
and had a good time. At 3 p. m. we met
with a nice lot of the Primary children. At
8 p. m. met with the Young Ladies. After
the sisters had spoken, all the girls present
bore their testimonies.
	The 18th we went on to Grafton, where
there is a small settlement. We held
meeting at 10 a. m. with the Relief Society
and Primary together, and after partaking
of Bishcp Ballard’s hospitality, we went on
to Springdale, where we met in a bowery
with the sisters and a very fine lot of chil-
dren. Brother Alpheus Gifford, who has
recently lost his eyesight and is quite blind,
and one of the Bishop’s counselors met
with us. Here they have very fine crops,
and we truly breathed the air of freedom.
	The 20th, which was Sunday, we came
back to Rockville. At 10 a. m. met with
the Sabbath School. At 2 p. m. we met
with the Saints in their regular meeting.
After the sacrament had been administered,
the meeting was given over to the sisters.
We urged the Saints to do their duties.
After the services we met with the Primary.
At 8 p. m. we met with the Mutual Im-
provement Association and enjoyed it very
much.
	On the 21st we traveled to Leeds. At 4
p. m. we met with the Relief Society and
Primary, and at 8 p. m. with the Young
Ladies. We had a joyful time. Almost
all the girls bore their testimonies. We
were entertained by Sister Ira McMullin,
whose husband is on a mission.
	On the 22nd we went to Harrisville
There they have no water; everything is
almost dried up. It is a small settlement.
We held a Primary meeting and invited all
to come. We felt well in meeting with the
sisters and children. We had dinner with
Sister Laney and then returned home,
having been away six days. We remained
home eleven days, and then started to visit
the western settlements of the St. George
Stake.
	On the 2nd of September, Brother Rich-
ard Morris, Stake superintendent of the
Sabbath School; President Ann C. Wood-
bury, of the Relief Society; Rosa Morris, of
the Y.L.M.I.A., and Mary G. Whitehead
left St. George. We arrived at Pine Valley
in the evening and put up at Bishop Snow’s.
Sunday we attended Sabbath School.
Brother Morris and the sisters talked. They
have a nice Sabbath School there. We met
with the Saints in sacrament meeting, after
which we met with the Primary and re-
organized it. At 7:30 p. m., we met with
the Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A. We
had an interesting time, many of the sisters
bore testimony to the truth of the work
in which we are engaged.
	On the 4th we went to Grass Valley. We
met with the people and had a joyful time.
All bore testimony to the truth of the Gos


pel. We had dinner with Brother Rancher
and family. At 5 p. m. left for Pinto and
met with the Primary at 7:30 p. m. We
held meeting with the Relief Society and
Y. L. M. I. A.: had a nice time. 
	The 5th we traveled on to Enterprise.
At 3 o’clock we met with the Primary. At
8 p. m. we organized a Relief Society. Re-
organized a Y. L. M. I. A.
	Talked with the sisters in Pine Valley
on the silk industry. We were showing a
sample of the silk we had made. They
said, “Why don’t you talk it up?” I
thought I had talked enough. They said
“We can’t raise silk here, but we can help
about the ribbon loom.” I talked about it
here and a gentleman, not of our faith, by
the name of Marshal, gave me a dollar to-
wards the silk. Bishop Hall met with us
and we had an excellent meeting.
	The 6th we went on to Hebron. At 10
a. m. we met with the Primary; lots of fine
children. Met with the Relief Society.
Bishop Holt attended all the meetings.
	The 7th we went on to Clover Valley.
Met with the Sunday School and Primary
children at 7:30 in the evening, also with
the Relief Society, and Y. L. M. I. A.
	On the 8th we continued our journey on
to Panacca. On the 9th held Primary
meeting at 4 p. m.; also met with the Re-
lief Society and Y. L. M. I. A., and re-
organized the latter.
	The 10th being Sunday, we attended
Sunday School and sacrament meeting,
after which we were invited to a water
melon feast at Brother John Lee’s. Sister
Jarvis met with the Young Ladies’ at 5 p.
m., and held a testimony meeting. We
also had a general meeting at 8 p. m., and
had an enjoyable time. While at Panacca
we stayed at Brother Arthur Lee’s and
were invited out to other places and shared
the hospitality of the people.
	On the 11th we continued our journey
over a broken country to Eagle Valley.
The people, owing to being in such an out
of the way place, have not been visited by
missionaries very often. They thoroughly
appreciated our visit. We met with the
Sunday School at 4 p.m.,and held a general
meeting at 8 p. m. The people were in
from Spring Valley. The first principles
of the Gospel were dwelt upon and we
truly had a time of rejoicing.
	On the 12th we left Eagle Valley and
started for Deer Lodge. We took the
wrong road and traveled on a wood road
about two and a half miles. Brother John
Hammond overtook us and said we would
have a “dear lodge” that night if we
kept on that road; so we returned and ar-
rived at Deer Lodge at 12 o’clock. We
took dinner with Sister Whitehead’s daugh-
ter, Mamie Lund. At 1 p. m. we started
for Bishop Holt’s. We stopped at Modena
and fed and watered the horses. We ar-
rived at Brother Holt’s having traveled
sixty-five miles that day. Sister Holt
kindly entertained us.
	On the 13th we left for St. George and
arrived in the evening, having traveled
there hundred and twenty-five miles and
held thirty-seven meetings. We trust we
have done some good in the cause of truth.
			Your sister in the Gospel,
				ANN C. WOODBURY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OVER five thousand women have obtained
employment in the last few years in Phila-
delphia in business hitherto filled by men
alone.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORT.
			SANPETE.
	Minutes of the Relief Society conference
held at Mt. Pleasant, September 8, 1899,
President M. A. Hyde presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing “We thank
Thee, O God, for a prophet.” Opening
prayer by Elder Edward Cliff. Singing,
“Prayer is the soul’s sincere desire.”
	President Hyde in her opening remarks
said we had arrived at a period when the
work was progressing marvelously. Re-
ferred to the death of Joseph Smith, and
the transfiguration of Brigham Young
when the mantle of the prophet fell upon
him. Referred to the strange spirits that
are abroad in the land to lead away the un-
wary, and the great necessity of the Saints
living near unto the Lord and seeking for
the spirit of discernment, that they may be
able to distinguish truth from error.
	President M. F. C. Morrison represented
the sisters of the Relief Society in Mt.
Pleasant as doing a good work. The peo-
ple were very liberal in contributing to the
wants of the poor.
	Mary A. Frantzen said: “The sisters
of Spring City are improving in attendance
at the meetings and are performing all the
duties required of them.”
	Freedom was represented by President
Libbie Simonson; Manti south ward, by
Stake Counselor Abigail Shoemaker; Manti
north ward, by President Alvira L. Cox;
Fayette represented by letter; Ephraim,
north and south wards, by Stake Secretary
Maria Willardson.
	All these branches were reported as being
in good condition.
	President M. A. Hyde related an incident
of healing through faith and prayer.
	Brother Reddick Allred made instructive
remarks, and President Stena Graham rep-
resented Milburn very favorably.
	Brother Edward Cliff eulogized the work
of the Relief Society, as represented in the
reports.
	Counselor A. L. Cox gave an account of
her recent visit through the different
wards throughout the Stake, accompanied
by Sister Shoemaker. Reported a wonder-
ful improvement during the past year.
Dwelt upon the blessings to be obtained by
perfect obedience to the law of tithing; also
spoke on the signs of the times.
	President Hyde delivered a kindly mes-
sage to the sisters from President Zina D.
H. Young.
	Singing, “O God, our help in ages
past.” Benediction by Brother Reddick
Allred.
	Afternoon session. Singing, “How firm
a foundation.” Opening prayer by Bishop
Lund. Singing, “Guide us O, Thou Great
Jehovah.”
	Moroni was represented by Kirstine M.
Jensen.
	President M. A. Hyde announced the
arrival of Sister E. B. Wells, from Salt
Lake City, who then addressed the confer-
ence. She gave a graphic and interesting
description of her recent visit to London
and the labor performed by the Inter-
national Council. The speaker was elo-
quent over the Herculean labors performed
by the Countess of Aberdeen in the interest
of the Council, and in showing social
courtesies to the visiting delegates, includ-
ing the visit to Queen Victoria and Wind-
sor Castle. She felt that the work the sis
ters had done in the Councils, both the

[Column 2]
National and International, had been good
in correcting wrong impressions and allay-
ing prejudice. She felt to eulogize the
work of the Relief Society in all the world.
Thought that we as a people had reason to
be proud of this organization. Urged upon
the young women the necessity of identify-
ing themselves with the society, that they
may be prepared for the duties and re-
sponsibilities which await them. Thought
that those who had known the Prophet,
should testify of the divinity of his mission
to the youth of Zion. Referred to the
building of a house in Salt Lake City for
the use and benefit of the Relief Society. 
	Counselor A. L. Cox gave notice con-
cerning Dr. Romania B. Pratt’s class in
obstetrics and nursing, urged the sisters to
attend; also dwelt upon the necessity of
sustaining the Exponent.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, “Do what is right.” Benediction
by Brother Reddick Allred.
	A special meeting was held in the eve-
ning, which was largely attended. The
meeting was held in the ladies’ new hall,
which is neatly furnished and reflects much
credit on the taste and energy of the good
sisters of Mt. Pleasant.
				A. L. COX, Cor. Sec.


OBITUARY.
	CORNELIA PRATT DRIGGS.
	Died at her home, Forest Dale, October 7, 1899,
Cornelia, wife of Bishop A. G. Driggs, and
daughter of the late Apostle Parley P, and Mary
Wood Pratt. The deceased was born in Salt Lake
City. Sep 5, 1848, and lived even up to woman-
hood in the old homestead on South Temple St.
She married A. G. Driggs, Oct. 5, 1867, and took
up her abode at Pleasant Grove, Utah Co., where
they lived a few years. Came to Sugar House in
1870.
    Sister Driggs was president of the Y. L. A. in
that ward for a number of years, and at the time
of her death was president of the Relief Society of
Forest Dale ward, which position she held from its
organization.
    She leaves a husband, three sons and four
daughters. Her second son, Mathoni P., is now
performing a mission in New Zealand. On the
morning of Mathoni’s departure, his grandmother
Pratt died. It was suggested to Sister Driggs the
propriety of calling her son home. She would not
entertain the thought. She was devoted to her re-
ligion, and kept the Word of Wisdom to the letter.
Her example was worthy of emulation; her whole
life has been spent in doing good, ministering to
the poor and needy, patient and kind to every one.
She has suffered in patience for the last year; was
perfectly resigned to the Father s will. The
whole community mourn with the sorrowing
household the departure of such a noble spirit.
								      COM.
	CHARLOTTE WOODS CARTER HIGBEE. 
	The funeral services of this noble Mother in
Israel were held in the 7th ward meeting house,
at 12 o’clock, noon, Sunday, Sep. 24, Bishop
Thorne presiding.
    According to her own request, the hymns sung
were “How firm a foundation,” “O, my Father”
and “Come to me will ye come.” The speakers
were Elder David McKenzie, who read a brief
sketch of her life, and Bishop O. F. Whitney.
Six of her grandsons acted as pall bearers, and a
large number of relatives and friends followed the
cortege to Mount Olivet, where the remains were
intered. Members of the choir rendered beauti-
fully “Farewell all earthly honors,” and Coun-
selor McLaughlin dedicated the grave
   Sister Higbee passed from this life Thursday
morning, Sep. 21, 1899, at the residence of her
daughter, Mrs. Minerva Cunnington, Salt Lake
City, Utah. She was the daughter of Roxana
Cresson and Levi Farnsworth Woods, and was
born in the town of Sangerfield, Keene Co., State
of New Hampshire, May 20, 1814.
    The following are her own words, which were
written in 1889:
    “I joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints in the year 1831 in the town of Pomfret,
Chatauqua Co., New York. I have passed through


all the trouble and persecution with the Saints
from that day to this, and never wavered in my
duty. I was married to Gideon Haden Carter,
a widower, in the year 1832; he was killed by a
mob in the battle of Crooked River, Missouri,
1838. I have passed through many scenes where
the power of God was manifest in a marvelous
degree.”
	She lived in the home of Elder Carter (whom
she afterwards married) during the illness and
death of his wife, Hillah Burwell Carter. I again
quote from her own writings:
	"The day before she died, an angel of the Lord
administered to her telling her that her body
should sleep in mother earth, but her spirit should
go to the paradise of God and rest until the morn-
ing of the first resurrection, and should then be
raised to a glorious exaltation in the kingdom of
her Heavenly Father. She received the vision on
a bright, sunny morning, the 1st of April. There
were eight persons and her six children in the
room at the time, who witnessed the glorious light
which filled the room and transfigured her beauti-
ful countenance while she talked to the angel,
which occupied one or two minutes. She talked
freely of what the angel said to her, until she died.
I testify this to be the sacred truth, for I was one
of the eight persons present.”
	She also testifies that a few years ago, when
given up to die by her family and friends, that the
power of the Lord rested upon her, telling her that
her work was not yet finished, and she was healed
in an instant.
	After the death of her husband, she was married
to Isaac Higbee for time and eternity, and was
with him at Provo during the Indian troubles,
keeping the powder magazine under her bed.
When driven with the Saints from Missouri, she
carried her baby in one arm, and her bundle in
the other. She was the mother of eight children—
two by Elder Carter, one son surviving; and six
by Elder Higbee, three of whom have passed away,
and three daughters now live in Salt Lake City.
She also leaves several grandchildren and great
grandchildren, and one brother and two sisters.
	The experiences and good deeds of this noble
woman would fill a volume. It is said she has
been a mother to six families, all of whom love
her and revere her memory. Peace to her ashes.

	Peace, peace, she is passing away,
	But through the gates to eternal day;
	Do not disturb her, fond heart be still,
	Gladly she listeth His will to fulfill, 
			Peace, peace.

	Out of the darkness, mis'ry and din,
	Into the light and glory within,  
	They alone enter, who’ve battled and won,
	They who have earned the glad plaudit well
		done,
				Peace, peace.

	Hushed be your mourning, rever’ntly bow,
	Only the clay remaineth here now;
	Happy in freedom, your mother has fled,
	Shout, shout, Hallujah! she is not dead,
			Peace, peace.

						Ruth M, Fox.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
DEBORAH SAMPSON—A WOMAN OF THE
REVOLUTION.
BY ALICE BURKE.
(Continued.)
	Within a few days Deborah posted a let-
ter to her mother from an-outlying town,
where she got permission to go. A por-
tion of it read:
Dearest Mother:
	I am in a large, well-regulated family. My
superiors are indulgent, but demand punctilous
obedience and propriety of conduct.
	There was a little more and then she
signed herself, “Your loving runaway
child, Debbie.”
	She gave no address, and of course re-
ceived no answer. She grew restless be-
cause no action was given her in the differ-
ent engagements. This reached the Col-
onel, “that Bobbie wanted to fight.” He
sent her out almost instantly with a scout-
ing party to cross the Hudson at Stony
Point. Finally some real fighting came
her way. She engaged in a skirmish be-

[Column 2]
tween Tarrytown and Sing Sing on the
26th of June. The day was intensely hot
and Deborah braced herself against im-
pending dizziness and weakness which
came over her. When the morning
dawned a stifling atmosphere fell upon the
band of men as they picked up traps for
the skirmish. Deborah’s comrades rallied
her on her white face and haggard eyes,
but she made no answer, only went about
her duties. When the order came to move,
she was alert with energy, though pale as
a ghost. Every bit of life centered in her
eyes, which meeting the soldiers as they
spoke to her, fairly dazzled them.
	“Jove,” one man said to a companion,
“if only a woman had such eyes, I’d wor-
ship her.”
	Deborah heard and was afraid, afraid of
being found out. She could not see the
man’s face, for he was turned from her,
but she saw that he was of higher rank
than a private. His voice was pleasant,
deep and manly, not easily forgotten.
	She took her place with the rest and
was soon in the thick of a desperate fight
with the British. She felt her strength
failing, her head swam, the whizz of the
bullets sounded deadly, the hot sun in her
face—for it was midday now—the groans of
the wounded filled the air and with a
woman’s horror and tenderness for the
suffering, she often paused to smooth a
dying comrade’s brow or hear the last
words of another, and thus she struggled
on, finally making her way to the front
ranks. Now desperate with the heat and
misery about her, and wishing to end it
all, what easier way than to be shot down,
serving her country. So she made her
way persistently forward. She felt sud-
denly that some one was dogging her foot-
steps closely, now on this side, now on
that. She did not turn to see, but was
conscious of this presence near her. He
was not her usual comrade, she was sure,
yet she would not turn to ascertain, so
eager was she for death to release her from
her misery.
	As she reached the foremost skirmisher,
a hand was laid on her arm.
“Stop!” a commanding voice said, a
voice she remembered instantly, the one
she had heard in the early morning.
	“I will not!” she exclaimed rebellious-
ly, trying to jerk away from him. 
	“You must not go on! It means
death!” he continued. “Be reasonable,
Robert.”
	“What business is it of yours, let me
go,” Deborah said, averting her face.
	“Rob, you are wilful. Here, look at
me, lad.” The soldier forced Deborah to
raise her head and meet his glance. Her
heart failed her as she did so, for the eyes
regarding her with an expression of grave
earnestness, were clear and of a dark blue;
eyes which seemed to master her soul and
hold her in bondage. Her own fell before
them, she breathed quickly, strangely
moved, she scarce knew why, and for once
her indomitable will failed her. 
	“Well,” she asked slowly, “I’m look-
ing at you. What is it you wish?”
	The wayward manner, the restless
glance of the handsome eyes puzzled her
companion. He eyed her curiously. Debo-
rah knew he was studying her, and with
an effort recovered herself, raised her eyes,
and met his boldly with the same light in
them which he had seen once before.
	“My heavens,” he said, still holding
her, “you’re a strange boy—and if—and
if— ” but here the bullets grew thicker,

[Column 3]
the smoke denser, and in the confusion she
contrived to get away from him.
	“’Tis love,” she whispered to herself,
as she ran madly on. “Love that has
come to me, and I’ve sworn never to give
up my liberty. God help me!”
	With a prayer on her lips she sped on.
She looked backward, but her companion,
tall and stalwart, though he was, could
not be seen. Was he wounded? There
was no time for conjecture, she must de-
fend herself as best she could.
	Before her, ever onward, she fancied
him near her. His thoughtful eyes bent 
upon her and his voice bidding her stop.
But this was only a dream, and she found
herself in a dangerous position with hiss-
ing missiles falling about her, and dense
smoke blinding her. With a groan she
put her hand to her arm, and saw blood
oozing through a great rent in her sleeve.
She was wounded, though slightly. The
pain was intense. She bound it up some-
how and rushed boldly on, stumbling now,
however, for the loss of blood and the
heat made her stagger blindly; then she
was drawn forcibly back. She began to
lose consciousness. The fear of being
discovered forced her to keep partial con-
trol of her senses, and she was aware she
was being led out of danger.
	“Wait, wait,” she gasped.
	Some one pressed a cup to her lips, and
she drank deeply, which revived her. She
looked at her companion. It was he;
bending above her calm and authoritatively.
A great fear took possession of her. She
must keep away from him, keep away
from the dangerous contact of his detain-
ing hand.
	“Don’t you see,” she said, “I’m all
right. The wound is nothing, nothing, I
assure you.”
	She tried to be brave, though her voice
trembled. He was aware of it. 
	Rob, you are talking nonsense. Come
along with me. I am going to take you to
a place of safety.”
	He led her away, and she was too weak
to protest. He made her rest beneath a
tree, while he went to others who were
wounded near by. She discovered his
name while she lay there. It was Ben
Gannett, and he was the surgeon of the
regiment, a brave soldier, as well, in the
service, and cared for the wounded. As
she observed him, strong and yet gentle,
moving from one to the other, a longing
entered her soul to tell him who she was.
His earnest face and wonderful courage
affected her forcibly, but she put the
temptation from her, and rising with re-
newed energy, she went to him.
	“I thank you,” she said frankly, “for
what you have done for me, but I must
join my comrades on the hill.”
	“Not yet, Rob, not yet,” he said.
	“I’m sorry, but you must not try to
stop me, ” she said firmly.
	Dr. Gannett saw it was useless. 
	“As you will then. But don’t be reck-
less, Rob. Think when you’re on the
battlefield, there’s some one cares whether
you live or die, for I do,” he said gently.
	The words were scarcely uttered when
he felt her burning hands clasp his, while
a soft kiss touched his. hand. ’Twas Debo-
rah! but before he could speak she rushed
away with her rifle in her hand.
	“A strange boy,” he muttered, and
then proceeded with his work.
	Little more happened in this first attack.
Deborah escaped with her life, and only
he slight wound in her arm. She evade


[Column 1]
Ben Gannett studiously, and a year passed
without having seen him.
	In June, when the roses awakened and
all the world seemed filled with love and
peace. she was sent out on another expedi-
tion. She tried in vain to crush out of her
soul this love for the young surgeon, but
it would not be killed. The boys in camp
found Bob changed after the skirmish, but
though they teased him, got no satisfac-
tion.
	Deborah on this second occasion was
full of her usual strength and vigor.
	At length the order came for her to join
twenty men who were to retaliate on some
Tories in New York. She sprang on a
horse, and with the others charged the foe
boldly and chased them into a quagmire.
In the midst of her bravery a bullet pierced
her thigh. Her cavalry boot filled with 
blood, and she grew weak and faint. She
called out to the soldiers, “I can go no
further!” One of them stopped and 
offered to carry her, but she motioned him 
away, fearing to be discovered, and he left 
her.
	Scarcely had he withdrawn when an-
other man rode out of the forest. She
knew him instantly, Ben Gannett.
	“Wounded again, Rob?” he said gently,
going to the youth, with blood stains on
his clothes.
	“Yes, yes,” Deborah answered in an 
agonized tone. “And it’s an ugly one.”
She pressed her hand over it, trying to
stop the blood.
	“This time I hope you’ll be sensible,
and let me dress the wound,” Ben said,
holding out a hand to help her.
	“I cannot, Doctor, believe me. I’ve a
horror of being hurt more—and prefer to
dress it myself,” she said firmly.
	“I suppose amongst your other follies,
which are those almost of a woman—”
	Deborah quailed beneath the sarcasm,
and he perceived an odd little smile on her
lips.
	“I say, Rob, amongst your other follies,
you will doubtless try to walk to camp.”
	“Perhaps,” she said, and with a ner-
vous strength she got to her feet.
	“Ah, me,” she exclaimed, with a per-
ceptible pang of pain. He saw she suf-
fered.
	“Do be sensible,” he urged, “and let
me help you.”
	“No, Doctor, it’s useless asking.”
	She tried to walk, but found it impos-
sible.
	“The game’s up. I’m good for nothing.
What shall I do? If I could only get to
my tent I could fix the wound in a
moment,” she said.
	“Well, since you won’t listen to me,
there is but one way I can help you,” he
said, and without warning he lifted her in
his arms and placed her on his horse and
mounting up beside her he started off for
camp.
	Deborah remembered that ride. They
were quite silent, for the day was drawing
to its close. A mist came down and clung
to the trees. It circled over the meadow
like a veil between them and the river.
	Ben was not thinking of the scene but
of his companion. He looked at her
closely. She had lost her cap in the fray,
leaving her shapely head exposed. It was
covered with a mass of short dark curls.
Without knowing what power made him,
he laid his hand on her head. Deborah
moved away uneasily.
	“My lad,” he said, “why are you so

[Column 2]
impatient of care? What is the reason?”
	“Oh, nothing. No reason,” she said
shortly, pressing her hand to her side, and
the Doctor saw she was still suffering.
	He refrained from more questions. He 
saw that his companion’s face grew white
and drawn.
	“Oh, it’s all up with me,” he heard her
say, and then a sudden flash of something
bright in the hand which was free. In a 
second he wrenched the weapon from her.
Deborah in a moment of desperation and 
pain was about to kill herself.
	“Rob, are you mad,” the Doctor said,
pinioning her hands by a strong grasp.
He felt how the boy leaned heavily against
him. Was he too late? Was he dying?
	No, the breath came in short gasps, but
the eyes were closed.
	“Rob”’ he said, “I didn’t mean to be
harsh to you. You are suffering.”
	A pressure of the hand was the only
answer, and thus they rode on, Deborah
in a half conscious state, allowing herself
to rest in his arms.
	“Strange,” the Doctor thought, “a
moment ago such energy and now he’s fit
to die. I can’t help loving the boy, in
spite of his wilfulness.
		[To be continued.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


FIFTIETH ANNIVERSARY WOMAN’S
		MEDICAL COLLEGE.
	Philadelphia, Penn., Sep. 23, 1899.
	The spring of 1900 will mark the fiftieth
anniversary of the Woman’s Medical Col-
lege of Pennsylvania, and the Alumnae are
looking forward to a fitting celebration of
this epoch in the education of women in
medicine.
	An interesting feature will be the presenta-
tion, at the next Annual Commencement,
of the portrait of the late Dr. Ann Preston,
a member of the first graduating class, and,
subsequently, one of the college faculty and
the first woman Dean. She was also the
leading spirit in founding the Woman’s
Hospital in Philadelphia.
	Since many of Dr. Preston’s old friends
are unknown to the present officers of the
Alumnae Association, we take this method
of informing them of our desire to raise a
sufficient sum of money to secure the ser-
vices of an artist who can reproduce on
canvas one whose memory is held in such
reverent esteem. Contributions, which will
be duly acknowledged, may be sent to Dr.
Clara Marshall, 1712 Locust Street, Phila-
delphia.
	ELIZABETH L. PECK, M. D.
		Secretary Executive Board.


MRS. LYDIA VON FINKLESTEIN MOUNT-
FORD, the Palestine delegate to the recent
International Council of Women in London,
says: “During my visit to Palestine last
year, I was struck by the awakening spirit
that seems to have taken hold of the wom-
en. The different religious bodies of the
Holy City have free schools for those of
their own denomination, and receive those
of other creeds; but as they all are proselyt-
ing institutes, they do not tend to break
down the barriers that religious differences
have established between people of the
same race. The younger generation, more
or less educated in these schools, are coming
in contact with the numerous foreigners
who visit the Holy Land. They chafe
under the restraint imposed by sectarianism


and in order to enjoy the social intercourse
of which a mistaken religious zeal has de-
prived them, they are in great danger of
cutting loose from the moral and modest re-
straint so beautiful in young womanhood,
with the idea that they are following French
and other fashions. I was particularly im-
pressed by the great need of a liberal edu-
cation, and their pathetic realization of that
need.


[shield logo]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD’S PICTORAL LINE.

[to the right of the logo]
THE PEOPLE’S FAVORITE.

		Leave Salt Lake Ci[-]y
No. 6 The “Fast Mall” for Chicago, St. Paul, St.
	Louis, Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and
	Park City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7 00 a.m.
No. 2 The “Overland Limited” for Chicago, St.
	Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
	Denver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	11 45 a.m.
No. 4 The “Atlantic Express” for Chicago, St.
	Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver. .	6 40 p.m.
		Arrive Salt Lake City.
No. 5 The “Fast Mail” from Chicago, St. Louis,
	Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and Park 
	City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3 00 p.m.
No. 1 The “Overland Limited” from Chicago, St.
	Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver . .	3 00 p.m.
No. 3 The ‘Pacific Express” from Chicago, St.
	Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
	Denver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3 30 p.m.

CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 Main St.		Telephone 665.
					H. M. CLAY, General Agent.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol- 
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St. 
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS


Woman's Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
Vol. 28. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1, 1899. No. 11.


CONTENTS.
From Summer Land . . . . . . . L. S. Dickinson	65.
Farleigh Castle . . . . . . . . . . . Lydia D. Alder		65.
A Woman Missionary . . . Mrs. Addison Pratt	67.
R. S. Report—Wayne Stake . . . . . . . . . . . . .	.	69.
Reaper’s Club . . . . . . . . . . . . . Julia A. Druce	70.
Ladies Semi-Monthly Meeting . J. S. Woolley	70.
Obituary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . J. F. S.	71.
Deborah Sampson—A Woman of the Revolution
	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Alice Burke	71.
EDITORIAL:—Visit to Stratford on-Avon . . .	68.
	Gone to Her Rest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	69.
	Editorial Notes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	69.
POETRY—Love’s Sympathy . . Ellis R. Shipp	65.
	Motherhood . . . Charlotte Perkins Stetson	67.
Miscellaneous . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .


LOVE’S SYMPATHY.
It came in the mists of the morning,
	With whispering mystical voice,  
It tapped at my door in the dawning,
	And bade me awake and rejoice.

Twas music of exquisite sweetness,
	Like cadences singing above;
It enrapt my soul in completeness,
	This heavenly message of love.

It breathed of a time in the future, 
	When discord and turmoil should cease; 
And through all the world there should
		usher,
	A reign of most infinite peace.

When love with electrical swiftness,
	Should thrill every wavering soul,
Cast malice from out of their fortress, 
	All sorrow and sin to control.

True sympathy binding together,
	The rights of each nation and land;
When man shall meet man as a brother,
	And humanity work hand in hand.

When the leaven of peace in its grandeur,
	Shall bring all our souls to one shrine,
To worship for ever and ever,
	One Being—our Father Divine ! 

					ELLIS R. SHIPP.


[Column 1]
FROM SUMMER LAND.
Dear Friend: 
	Your letter took some time in making its
intermountain journey, but finally reached
me in this, the land of the “fig and the
vine,” while I sat almost buried in roses,
thinking of my many friends in dear old
Salt Lake. Knowing that they were shiver-
ing around their firesides instead of swing-
ing in the hammock under the orange trees,
made me all the more thoughtful of them,
because I do so hate the cold.
	I am going to Los Angeles in a few
days for the winter, but at the present time
I am visiting with friends in this country
town, in fact we are two miles from the
town, but it is all like town, though the
houses are quite scattered. We drive for
miles and miles and see nothing but orange,
lemon, fig, prune, pomegranate and all
kinds of useful trees, as well as every kind
of fancy tree that is supposed to grow in a
country where it is summer all the year
around. The streets, or roads, are all laid
off with the precision that would be used

[Column 2]
in arranging the pass ways of a city, but
there are no blocks. It is all miles, quarter
or half miles. There are no fences any-
where, and when one wants fruit or grapes
to eat, he just walks into the other fellow’s
orchard and helps himself, and at the same
time, he is welcome to all the roses he cares
for. With my love for roses, you can
imagine I have not neglected many oppor-
tunities of that kind, and it having been
the dream of my life to spend a winter in
Southern California, you can imagine what
it is for me to read of the cold weather else-
where, then turn, first to the quantities of
roses that my friends provide me with, and
then look out and see the orange trees laden
with green fruits, and, at the same time,
see the spring making its appearance in the
lilac buds, and the rose-bushes and other
shrubs putting out their fresh, tender twigs
for the new bloom.
	The roads are all lined on either side
with beautiful trees, palms, roses and olean-
ders, so you can imagine what an after-
noon’s drive is, The homes are all com-
fortable and many of them elegant. At first
it seemed strange to see no grass anywhere
except a patch in front of each house. The
saying that “orange raising and culture
goes together” is a true one, for I find that
while the people all live on ranches, they
forget not the higher duties to their children,
that is, to cultivate the mind as well as the
land. There are, of course, no sidewalks,
but each child has a ‘wheel,” and while
he may live several miles from the school,
he does not look upon that as a reason for
being absent.
	One day my friends drove me out to visit
one of the largest canning factories in the
state, where some five hundred or more
men and women find steady employment in
the fruit season. It costs between five and
six thousand dollars per day to keep up the
running expenses of the factory. I have
forgotten how many tomato cans they filled
the day we were there, but they soldered
three thousand every ten minutes, labeled
ten thousand in six minutes and loaded a
railroad car in less than twenty minutes.
Quick work, eh?
	Another day we visited a winery where
the owner raises miles of grapes, and when
they are hauled in, in big wagons, the juice
streams out of every crack in the wagon
bed as the men shovel them into the press
with shovels something like your snow
shovels, only larger. I saw dozens of wine
vats that held from six hundred to one
thousand gallons.
	I am visiting where there are five lovely
boys that range in age from fourteen to
twenty-six, and they have all done much
to make my visit an enjoyable one, and
they have not failed in the attempt. One
day last week they arranged a rabbit hunt
for my pleasure. At first they were not
satisfied with their success, and when I
caught them out of my sight I slipped an
old shoe in the box where they put their
game, at the bottom of the carriage. I
drove the horses and sometimes the boys
shot the rabbits from the carriage. We
drove through the orange groves, where

[Column 3]
the boys killed several “cotton tails,” then
we drove out on the remnant of the desert,
that lay between us and the mountains that
are only six miles to the east of us. I flat-
ter myself that the old shoe had something
to do with the final success of the hunters,
as they killed seven “cotton tails” and six
“jacks” and got back home in two hours
and a half; but, man-like, they said they
would have had twice that many.
	I suppose you will be surprised when I
tell you I have learned to ride a wheel
since I came here, and I am not going to
leave until I have climbed up to the top of
the wheel track and rode down. The
avenue is twice as wide as the Salt Lake
streets. On either side of the avenue is a
line of orange and lemon trees, and the
centre is parted with a double row of the
most beautiful shade trees you could im-
agine, and between each tree there is a
large palm tree, and in the centre is the
white track. The avenue is six miles long
and the good riders coast their wheels from
the top to the bottom without a stop or a
turn. 
	In the three weeks that I have been here
have had more pleasure and seen more of
the country than the ordinary traveler
would see in that many months, because I
have not confined myself to the cities and
railroad towns. This is not the season of
the orange blossom or the rose, still I have
always quantities of both in my room, and
will send you an orange blossom to remind
you of me. Love to old friends.
		(MRS.) L. S. DICKINSON.
	Ontario, Cal., October 17, 1899.


FARLEIGH CASTLE.
	Learning there were some ruins of note,
namely, Farleigh Castle, in Somerset, at
the close of a warm, sunny day in July,
comfortably seated in a Goveness (a four
seated conveyance in which two can sit on
a side) with an agreeable driver, we set out
for this far-famed castle.
	The sun was gradually sinking in the 
west; cool breezes fanned us, as we drove
briskly along. The sturdy little pony
worked with right good will, quickly get-
ting over the smooth, hard roads.
	Often I had heard of the Green Lanes of
England, and her abundance of buttercups
and daisies. Now here they were, butter-
cups and daisies, daisies and buttercups.
Everything so trim, hedges regular, and, for
the most part, well dressed. So much more
lovely than the board fences, or barbed
wire that enclose our own farms. Every-
thing here speaks of order, industry and
care-taking.
	Passing along, an old stone house of
rather large dimensions, was pointed out as
not being inhabited for years, the reason
being that long ago a young girl had
drowned herself and was brought from the
Thames river to this house, and was buried
from there, her stepmother not allowing
her to be brought home. It was the old
story of parents interfering in matters of
the heart. The mother of the young man


[Column 1]
causing him to go away that the attachment
might be thus broken up. The morning
that he left for other lands, she went to the
river and drowned herself. These things
should never occur in our day of common
sense.
	But here we are at the bottom of Farley
hill. Getting out we slowly ascend the
grand archway leading into the castle, al-
most tottering into decay, but, no doubt,
supported by the luxuriant ivy, that is
grown and interwoven through and over it
all.
	The castle in the days of its glory must
have been an immense structure. One por-
tion stands, in which are three fire places,
on as many different sides, which must 
have been rooms.
	In the upper story of this also, the ivy is
dense and twining it all around. One
more entrance, which might have been a
grand door once, on the opposite side, is all,
except portions of walls, that is left of the
castle. The church, a little lower down,
still stands in a fair degree of preservation,
being inside and beyond the castle. Enter-
ing (the guide at the door for the fee) we
see more armor and helmets than I have 
seen anywhere else, hanging all over the
walls. It must be Norman armor, as the
church is certainly Norman, and was built
in the 11th century. The stained glass
window over the altar, though somewhat
worn, is not nearly so grand as those of more
modern churches. While the pictures are
beautiful, they are much smaller than any
others that I have seen.
	On a stand in front of the altar is an old 
Bible whose letters, though English, al-
most look like some foreign characters. It 
is in a glass case under lock and key. On 
one of its open pages its history is briefly
told in writing:
	This is a copy of the First Edition of Barker’s
folio, authorized version, and was printed in 1611.
The Edition is known as the Great “He” Bible,
from a printer’s error, at Ruth III, 15th verse:
“He went into the citie,” instead of “She went,”
&c. This book has been much mutilated by visitors
to the building abstracting sheets and otherwise
defacing it. Being in a dilapitated condition, it
was re-sown in March 1899, and is now placed 
under lock and key.
	The castle formerly belonged to the noble
Hungerford family, who, no doubt, were
Normans. The arch is Norman, as also
the baptismal font in the church.
	Two chairs that belonged to the chapel,
black almost with age, still are there on
either side of the chancel; also an altar
of like wood and design, all being magnifi-
cently carved in curious characters. Christ 
hanging on the cross, with candlesticks on
either side, where the candles have been 
long removed.
	The pulpit is almost intact, save a hole in
its top where a stone from the ceiling
came crashing through. A copy of a letter
said to be the handwriting of Oliver Crom-
well is shown.
	The tombs are those of the Hungerford
family, inscriptions being in Latin. Trans-
lated one reads: “Here lieth Thomas
Hungerford, Knight, Lord of Farley, Wil-
low and Haytesburg, who died 3rd Decem-
ber, A. D. 1398. On whose soul God have
mercy. Amen.”
	Walter Hungerford was the personage
celebrated during the reign of Elizabeth, as
the rural and hospitable knight of Farley
Castle. The maxim, “Time trieth truth,”
appears to have been his favorite adage.
	On another tomb is written in Latin:

[Column 2]
“Here lieth * * * chaplain of the perpetual
Chantry, founded at the Altar of the Blessed
Virgin Mary, by Walter Hungerford, Lord
Hungerford * * * who died the 5th * * *
on whose soul may God have mercy.
Amen.”
	The stone was raised a few years ago,
and the skeleton of a young man, with
teeth quite perfect, was discovered. Time
is slowly doing its work of decay. Even
the helmets have large holes forming in
them. There are many spears as well as 
breast plates.
	A pew that belonged to the ancient
church, is about six feet long and nine
inches wide, carved into chairs for each
person. One could not think of the wor-
shippers of those days going to sleep in
such a pew as that. I think it would take
him all his time to keep in it.
	The place is damp, green on the steps
leading down to it. This is only one of
the instruments used to carry out the de-
cree, “All things shall perish.”
	The Mausoleums are very finely sculp-
tured, these being in the inner Chantry,
and others near the channel. The full 
features are fine and clearly cut, showing
the gentlemen much as they are today, and
the ladies beautiful and delicate. I looked 
over the moat of the old castle, and was
told that the water for it used to come from
seventy miles away.
	A visit to the crypts, whose steps were
green with moss. Looking through the
bars, the leaden coffins, some large and
some small, meet the eye. A chill as of
death was about the place. After peering
into the semi-darkness and discovering that
the coffins looked like stone, sunken in the
middle as the bodies crumbled to dust, we
hastily sought the clear open air, leaving
the dampness, darkness and death with a
shudder.
	In the city of Frame, not far distant, is a 
very old church; originally it was Saxon,
built by S. Aldheine, probably on this site,
about the year 680, A. D. It has been
altered and restored many times. First in
the 12th century, during the reign of
Stephen. The north and south doorways
and porches of the present church were
built then, also the doorway in the Ladye
Chapel.
	In the 13th century the Chapel Arch, the
tower and arcade of the nave, as far as the
porches, and probably the walls of the nave
were built. 
	In the 14th century, the western portion
of the arcade, the remainder of the isles 
and the west font was added.
	In the 15th century the roof of the nave
was raised, the clestory added, the tower
raised and a roof loft constructed.
	The Ladye Chapel was originally built in
the reign of Stephen, rebuilt in the reign of
Edward III, and restored during the in-
cumbency of Rev. Bennett. The Chapel
of St. John the Baptist, on the north side
of the choir, was founded in 1337, but is 
now used as an organ chamber.
	The Chapel of St. Andrew, on the south
side of the choir, was founded in 1412. It 
was restored in 1844 in memory of Bishop 
Ken.
	The Chapel of St. Nicholas, near the
north porch, was founded in 1517, the latest
portion of the whole church now used as
the baptistry.
	The restoration was begun in the year
1852, and completed in 1866. On a brass
plate on the door many of the names given

[Column 3]
above are inscribed; also “Glory be to God
alone in Christ.”
	There are many objects of interest. Old 
carved stones in the east wall of the belfry,
with some images at the west end. S.
Aldheine, the founder, S. Alban, the pro-
martyrs of England. S. Andrew, the patron
of the Diocese, and S. George, the patron
of our country.
	The windows of the nave illustrate the
life and death of St. John the Baptist; also
illustrations of the life of St. Nicholas, in
the lower compartments.
	The window of the St. Andrew’s Chap-
el includes a kneeling figure of Bishop
Ken, and a representation of the Bishop
entertaining numbers of poor persons at
his weekly feast. The east window is
very beautiful indeed, and illustrates the
sufferings of Christ which ended in the 
crucifixion; a picture of St. John the
Evangelist, with a caldron of oil; also
some of the miracles of Christ. These
windows throw such a hallowed light
through the church, that one stands with a 
feeling of awe, looking upon them and the
scenes they portray.
	This is a Church of England, but it is
called High Church, the incense burning
day and night in six red glass censers. The
confessional is being introduced, or re-
established again, leaving only the celi-
bacy of the priests to be Roman Catholic as
before, and to that church the Church of
England is rapidly tending; and not many
years hence, it looks as though it would be
swallowed up in the Catholic Church.
	These red censers are being brought
from Rome, and are to be seen in many of
the churches now. 
	Outside under the east window, is Bishop
Ken’s grave, also the late Vicar’s. A stone
wall encircles the upper side from the 
church which gradually slopes down to the
street in steps or terraces. On each terrace
is a scene from the life of Christ cut out in
stone, the figures standing boldly out from
the background. Cradled in the manger,
the flight into Egypt, teaching the doctors
in the Temple, calling His disciples, the
Sermon on the Mount, His agony in
Gethsemane, His betrayal, trial before
Pontius Pilate, then carrying the cross, one
picture where he stumbled beneath the
weight of it, where He sank down, then
where Stephen carries it to Calvary. These 
scenes are strikingly portrayed where he
stumbled and sunk down is particularly
touching. Then the scene of the cruci-
fixion: it is a beautiful theme, and the soul
of the artist is stirred within him.
	All around the church are numberless
dead of long years ago The town is built 
up all around the church and the bustle of
life goes steadily on, with scarcely a
thought of the sleepers just beside it. Un-
told numbers of England’s dead sleep in
the cities and towns, so long ago some of
them passed to the other life, that the
letters cut in stone have become obliterated
by Time, whose unerring finger points to
the end of all things earthly. Who shall
name them? The breeze as it sighs among
them, whispers “Who?”
	Trowbridge, July, 1899.
				LYDIA D. ALDER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THAT only can with propriety be styled 
refinement which, by strengthening the 
intellect, purifies and perfects the man-
ners.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
MOTHERHOOD.

Motherhood: First mere laying of an egg
With blind foreseeing of the wisest place, 
And blind provision of the proper food
For unseen larva to grow fat upon
After the instinct-guided mother died—
Posthumous motherhood, no love, no joy. 

Motherhood: Brooding patient o’er the nest, 
With gentle stirring of an unknown love;
Defending eggs unhatched, feeding the young
For days of callow feebleness, and then
Driving the fledgling from the nest to fly.

Motherhood: When the kitten and the cub
Cried out alive, and first the mother knew,
The fumbling of furry little paws,  
The pressure of the hungry little mouth
Against the more than ready mother-breast—
The love that comes of giving and of care.

Motherhood: Nursing with her heart-warm milk,
Fighting to death all danger to her young,
Hunting for food for little ones half-weaned
Teaching them how to hunt and fight in turn—
Then loving not till the new litter came.

Motherhood: When the little savage grew
Tall at his mother’s side, and learned to feel
Some mother even in his father’s heart.
Love coming to new babies while the first 
Still needed mother’s care, and therefore love—
Love lasting longer because childhood did.

Motherhood: Semi-civilized, intense,
Fierce with brute passion, narrow with the range
Of slavish lives to meanest service bowed;
Devoted—to the sacrifice of life;
Jealous beyond belief, and ignorant
Even of what should keep the child alive.
Love spreading with the spread of human needs,
The child’s new, changing, ever-growing wants, 
Yet seeking like brute mothers of the past
To give all things to her own child herself.  
Loving to the exclusion of all else;
To the child’s service bending a whole life;
Yet stunting the young creature day by day 
With lack of Justice, Liberty and Peace.

Motherhood: Civilized. There stands at last
Facing the heavens with as calm a smile,
The highest fruit of the long work of God;
The highest type of this the highest race;
She from whose groping instinct grew all love—
All love—in which is all the life of man. 

Motherhood: Seeing with her clear, kind eyes,
Luminous, tender eyes, wherein the smile
Is like the smile of sunlight on the sea,
That the new children of the newer day
Need more than any single heart can give,
More than is known to any single mind,
More than is found in any single house,
And need it from the day they see the light.
Then measuring her love by what they need,
Gives from the heart of modern motherhood,
Gives first, as tree to bear God’s highest fruit,
A clean, strong body, perfect and full grown, 
Fair for the purpose of its womanhood,
Not for light fancy of a lower mind;
Gives a clear mind, athletic, beautiful,
Dispassionate, unswerving from the truth;
Gives a great heart that throbs with human love,
As she would wish her son to love the world.

Then when the child comes, lovely as a star,
She in the peace of primal motherhood,
Nurses her baby with unceasing joy,
With milk of human kindness, human health,
Bright human beauty and immortal love.
And then? Ah! here is the New Motherhood— 
The motherhood of the fair new-made world—
O glorious New Mother of New Men!
Her child, with other children from its birth,
In the unstinted freedom of warm air, 
Under the wisest eyes, the tenderest thought,
Surrounded by all beauty and all peace,
Led, playing, through the gardens of the world, 
With the crowned heads of science and great love
Mapping safe paths for those small rosy feet—
Taught human love by feeling human love,
Taught justice by the laws that rule his days,
Taught wisdom by the way in which he lives,
Taught to love all mankind and serve them fair
By seeing from his birth, all children served
With the same righteous, all-embracing care. 
 
O Mother! Noble Mother, yet to come!
How shall thy child point to the bright career
Of her of whom he boasts to be the son—
Not by assiduous service spent on him, 
But for the wisdom which has set him forth
A clear-brained, pure-souled, noble-hearted man,
With health and strength and beauty for his own, 

[Column 2]
And more for the wide record of her life,
Great work, well done, that makes him praise her
	name
And long to make as great a one his own!
And how shall all the children of the world,
Feeling all mothers love them, loving all,
Rise up and call her blessed!
		This shall be.
			CHARLOTLE PERKINS STETSON.


[Column 1]
A WOMAN MISSIONARY.
	[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands
1850.]
			(Continued.)
	Singing hymns (the natives can sing
nothing else) is a great source of happiness
to us. A portion of our time every eve-
ning is spent in this amusement.
	When Mr. Layton returned from Tahiti,
he brought with him a young girl with a
view to rescue her from a life of sin, and to
watch over her for good. She is a sweet
singer and looks innocent, but has had no
teachings from her parents to warn her to
shun temptations. I would like to have a
large house; and have means to take all
such poor, abused children under my im-
mediate charge. I look upon this poor
girl’s intelligent countenance, listen to her
pleasant voice and think how lamentable
that she must be sacrificed to the base pas-
sion of ungodly men. Had I no daughters
of my own, I would adopt her, and teach
her to be chaste and pure; but she would
be a dangerous companion for those young-
er than herself; there is something ensnar-
ing in her looks. The two little girls we
have in our family are very amusing. They
sing with energy, as if they felt the thrill-
ing effect of their own music. I look upon
them with admiration. 
	September 20. Last night our rest was
disturbed by the sickness of Brother Lay-
ton’s wife. The Elders were called up to
administer to her by the laying on of hands.
Her little sister sleeping in my house was
awakened to go with all the relatives and
sympathize, whether the person is danger-
ously ill or not. Such is their custom,
even to a fanaura (a birth) all must be
present.
	This morning a sister from Ravaivai,
called and inquired for Ellen. It was her
niece, she said, who had made friends with
our daughter, when she visited that island.
For that reason she called Ellen her grand-
child, and land belonging to her niece, she
affirmed, was Ellen’s. Such is their cus-
tom when two make an agreement to be
friends. Whatever property they possess
belongs equally to both, and must not be
withholden in case it is needed.
	The 9th day. This morning a native
sister sent in haste for the Elders, having
been taken alarmingly ill with the cramp
cholic. Mr. Pratt had a few days before
refused to administer to her and her hus-
band, on account of their using too much
tobacco, upon which they were both re-
baptized and covenanted to use no more. I
nursed her, anointed her with oil and the
Elders laid on hands in the name of the
Lord, and she soon recovered. Poor
creatures, they know nothing about nursing
each other; children they are in knowledge.
They repeat everything from their teachers,
they set no bounds to their abilities. Sacri-
fices and self-denial they consider necessary
adornments; powers of mind to supply their
wants and assist the needy, they think
should be qualifications of all the servants
of God. They are liberal with their means

[Column 2]
in the highest degree, but little do they
have. 
	September 15th. One year ago this day
we left the coast of California; that was the
Sabbath, this is Monday. Little did I then
think what was before me! My extreme
sickness on the water and the trials attend-
ing that voyage, were hidden from me.
Had I known beforehand what I should
suffer, I could not have undertaken it. I
have endeavored to sow good seed. My 
daughters have set an example of industry
and sobriety. Our reward will certainly
come to us in the great future.
	Mr. Grouard invited us to his house to
dine. His native wife, after helping to
cook the food, would not eat at the table.
I marvel greatly when I see white men,
sensible, intelligent men, conforming to the
habits of the island women; eating their
food from the ground, without knife or
fork; isolating themselves from the world;
raising a posterity they can never be proud
of. There must be some cause not appar-
ent to those who are sent here to preach the
Gospel. For them to go back to their
native country and mingle in society,
would be like being ushered into a new
world.
	When the white men are absent the head
chief leads. “Hoatau” has a powerful
voice, and great energy and force in his
manner, besides great zeal for this cause.
He is a natural orator. Mr. Grouard is ex-
tremely anxious to be sent to California to
get a vessel in which to convey the island
brethren to the body of the Church. Mr.
Pratt is not in favor of the enterprise, fear-
ing it might detain us here too long. How
painful to be kept in suspense!
	The 22nd day. The equinoctial storm
occurred, which continued for a week. We
are expecting to hear of terrible disasters at
sea. Glad our hearts are to see the smiling
face of the old king of day once more. In
this far-off world a dark, dismal day seems
intolerable. Sunshine and flowers are our
congenial companions.
	On the 26th, before the dawn of day, Mr.
Pratt went forth with dog and gun to shoot
wild fowl. He was induced to take Fran-
ces, our second daughter, with him, with a
view to dispel the gloom which seemed
hanging over her. They went two miles to
the mountains, up the cliff, and returned
with plenty of game. The excursion had
the desired effect. This seclusion from the
world at intervals is very trying on the
children. At such times they resort to
rambles on the mountains with the native
children, gather wild flowers, decorate
themselves and return in fine spirits.
	I have witnessed another setting sun,
beautiful when going down behind the
great deep. All is silent, not a sound do I
hear from the noisy world. I know not
but it is all buried up, and Babylon fallen
to rise no more forever. I trust, however,
that Salt Lake City still remains. How
long must we endure this imprisonment! 
I have one little hope remaining. Captain 
Johnson is expected in, and he will bring
us news from the dear old world. So I
will try to live a few days longer. 
	My employment daily is to keep the
children at their books. I made a feast for
those under my immediate charge. Four-
teen were seated around the table at once. 
They conducted themselves extremely well,
ate with knives and forks and tried to
imitate their superiors.
		[To be continued.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah,
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months.
50 cts No deduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
				Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1, 1899


A VISIT TO STRATFORD-ON-AVON.
	A perfect day in July, and a landscape as
beautiful as it is possible for scenery to be,
Tuesday, July 19, 1899, when we took a
morning train in Nottingham for Stratford-
on-Avon. One’s anticipations have some-
thing to do with one’s enjoyment generally,
and the thought of visiting the immortal
Shakespeare’s birthplace, and the scenes of
his activity, where he lived and loved and
wrote and became famous, to an ardent
admirer of his genius was sufficient to
make everything appear glorious, if even
the day had been dull and the journey
tiresome. But such was not the case; the
part of country through which we traveled
was charming. There were many fine
towns and villages, and the great city of
Birmingham, of which we could, from the
railway, only see the signs of its busy
manufacturing appearance, though we
afterwards had a fine visit there. We
passed, on the way, many handsome villas
and gentlemen’s country seats, some of
them well-known to our pleasant traveling
companion, who was familiar with many
parts of England, where his early life had
been spent. We reached Stratford-on-Avon
about 2 p. m., and went direct to the Fal-
con, a very old-fashioned inn, where we
had been informed there were many curi-
ous and ancient articles, typical of the
Shakespeare period.
	We found we were too late for the lunch
hour, but were directed to a Shake-
speare restaurant a short distance up the
street, quite as quaint as the inn itself.
	We made some inquires at the Falcon
from the hostess, who had already assigned
us rooms previous to our going out, and
had informed us that the room given the
writer had been Marie Correlli’s room when
she was a guest at the Falcon, and where
she had written “The Sorrows of Satan.”
The furniture was very old style—high 
post bedstead with heavy silk curtains and
bell with long silken cord, which was one
of a chime of nine bells, each having a
name attached over each respective bell in
the hall below, which was also the name of
the room; this one was called Silence.
We sallied forth to see the town and learn
all we could of its curious history. The
streets were narrow, and gave one the feel-
ing of antiquity; the houses were old and
many of them entirely different in style to
those we had seen in other parts of Eng-
land. Now and then, a house that looked
fresh and new was seen, but the tendency
seemed to be towards keeping up the

[Column 2]
Shakespearian period, and that is no doubt
the object.
	The Parish Church near by, was not so
different from many other churches except
for its history. This is the church where
the great Shakespeare was baptized on April
26, 1564, and as it was usual to baptize at
three days old, the 23rd of April is regarded
as the birthday of the great poet. The rec-
ord reads Gulielmus filius Johannes
Shakespeare.
	It has been remodeled considerably, but the
situation is fine, on the banks of the historic
river Avon, a placid stream overhung with
magnificent trees. At the hour we climbed
to the top of the tall steeple, the river was
dotted with pretty little skiffs, and girls and
boys in yachting costumes, merrily singing,
chatting and laughing, leisurely rowing
along the shores a picturesque sight, fit
for a poet’s pen or an artist’s brush.
Portions of the church are said to date
from the time of the Conquest, and to have
been built on the site of an old Saxon
church. Some parts have been pulled
down, rebuilt and beautified. Altogether
its history is interesting, but a description
of the church would take too much space
and is not strictly a part of our visit.
	From there we wended our way to
Shakespeare’s house, low and rambling,
where we were shown the chimney corner
so famous for the many recollections of fire-
side conversation. It is said that at this
chimney corner of Shakespeare’s father,
who was Councilor and Bailiff, two of the
highest positions in the town council, all
sorts and conditions of men gathered to dis-
cuss the affairs of town and state; also the
gossips, who only talked of commonplace
matters, and travelers who brought the
news of the great world. This house,
where Willie played in his infancy and
childhood, is visited by thousands of pil-
grims every year.
	After wandering through the rooms in
the Shakespeare house, and reflecting upon
the many incidents one has heard and read,
one feels scarcely fit to mingle with the
fresh, breezy people of the world; neverthe-
less, when the twilight was coming on,
and we were turning corners and angles of
the crooked streets, we came upon “Ye
Halle Crofte,” where the lady of the Falcon
had told us Marie Correlli was lodged,
writing two books, also that she refused
absolutely to see any one. However, when
one has traveled seven thousand miles one
is not easily discouraged at trifles, so we
made bold to lift the great brass knocker.
A porter in livery opened the door, and
when he saw only a timid little woman,
seemed greatly astonished. The errand
was soon made clear, and he said he would
do his best to procure an interview, and to
come at. 9:15 or later, considering the cir-
cumstances. Leaving a card for the great
author, we hurried to overtake our friend,
who was still wandering among the old,
historic places.
	After dinner or tea (one cannot always
remember which) we donned our best
traveling apparel, and, at the appointed
time, again lifted the brass knocker, and
the same fine porter opened the door and
his face was wreathed in smiles when he
said, “My lady will see you.”
	The house is quaint; there are three gables
front and everything betokens peculiarity.
The great beams overhead in the entrance
room, which one would judge had been a
living room, are lettered. The first to at,
tract the eye, immediately facing the door-

[Column 3]
is a welcome to all who enter here, in sort
of scriptural style and old-fashioned letter-
ing, but it makes one feel welcome, though
the place is almost sacred from association.
The house was formerly the home, of Dr.
John Hall, who married Susanna, the
elder daughter of Shakespeare. It is very
sweet to be so warmly received by a great
author when one is far from home, and
totally unknown except by name, as was
the writer of this sketch by this lovely
woman, whose books have, made her fa-
mous the world over. She came forward to
meet her caller with all the grace of a real
Duchess, and was as elegantly dressed. She
wore heavy white silk with a profusion of
white lace, and jewels that were dazzling;
also pearls upon her fair neck, which was
white as alabaster. Her abundant wealth
of golden auburn hair was dressed low, and
fell about her brow and temples in loose
tresses. She was beautiful as a dream of
summer, and her face was like sunshine,
her teeth like pearls and her lips ruby
red. Remembering her, one cannot wonder
she can write, and that she is musical, the
marvelously sweet tones of her voice would
tell you that. We talked freely of books
and places. She said she dreaded the ocean,
so she feared she could never visit America.
She sent for coffee and refreshments, and
served them herself in the daintiest fashion
in the finest Sevres china and silver service.
She gave the writer her autograph and said
in the most positive manner: “O, now,
Mrs. Wells, you must have my two books
am busy writing how. That is why I
can’t see people, every day I, should be
thronged with visitors.” When we in-
quired the titles, or what her books were to
be called, she told us they were not named
yet.
	She chatted freely of herself, her great
trouble, her brother’s death, her own
health, the crisis she had passed through
safely when she had been attended by a
woman doctor, and how anxious she was to
have everyone know how successful the
doctor had been in the case. She also was
profuse in her admiration of Halle Crofte,
which she would like to purchase; and of
the Falcon, where we were staying, and of
Ann Hathaway’s cottage, told us what we
must be sure and see in both these places
referred to the old church and the River
Avon, with its boating; insisted we must
have seen her rowing at twilight in a boat
on the river, when we were gazing down
from the church steeple; described her dress,
a simple white muslin and a white straw
sailor hat. Rowing is a pastime for which
she seemed to have the keenest enjoyment.
	It was a very great pleasure to meet this
charming woman, who has certainly a
striking personality, and once in her pres-
ence, one is not likely to forget the power 
of her fascination.
	Early the next morning we walked
through the lanes that led to Ann Hath-
away’s cottage. A delightful day; the fields
were thick with clover, daisies and red
poppies, and the wicket gates and green
hedges were more real than we could have
imagined by reading of them We were
there before the opening time, nine o’clock, 
so loitered about the quaint flower garden,
and curious thatched-roof cottages were
near as well as the Hathaway house itself.
It is reputed to be this footpath that
Shakespeare must have wandered over to
meet his lady-love in the soft twilight,
quiet and luxuriant, about one mile from
Stratford along the paths to Shottery, with


its old-fashioned gables and half-timbered
houess. On the way there is a little road-
side inn called “The Sheakespeare.” Trees
are heavy with foliage, almost embowering
the houses. Down the lane you cross a
little brook a few yards from the house,
which is a long thatched tenement of wood
and plaster. On the central chimney, cut
into the stone and let into bricks, is en-
graved the letters J. H., and date 1697.
The house is divided into three apartments.
There is a passage between two of them;
the room on the right has a chimney ex-
tending the whole width of the house, with
an oven, and boiler; this is the kitchen.
The rooms are ceiled with strong, heavy
beams. The present resident is a grand-
daughter of John Hathaway Taylor. Over
the parlor is the bedroom, up rickety stairs,
where there stands an old carved oak bed-
stead, elaborately and tastefully executed,
certainly as old as the Shakespeare period,
and handed down as an heirloom with the
house. The old lady of the house, nearly
ninety years of age, declares she slept in it
from childhood, and was always told it had
been there ever since  the house was
built. 
	The Shakespeare house, New Place,
Guild Hall and Grammar School, where
Shakespeare was taught, will be sufficient
for another short sketch (as this is already
too long), about our visit to Stratford-on
Avon.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
GONE TO HER REST. 
	Sister Melissa Jane Bigler Lambson, a
woman pioneer in the Church and in the
State, has passed to her rest beyond the
vail. has finished her earthly pilgrimage
and gone to join the innumerable host on the
other side, where there is no more pain
or sorrow or weeping; and although those
near and dear by the ties of kindred and
affection will miss her beloved companion-
ship here, yet there will doubtless be joy
and rejoicing there, that a loved one has re-
turned, having endured and been faithful
and true in the Gospel, for the race is not
to the swift, nor the battle to the strong,
but to him that endureth unto the end.
	Sister Melissa Jane Bigler Lambson,
who died in this city, October 25, 1899,
was the daughter of Mark and Susanna
Ogden Bigler, and was born in Shinston,
Harrison Co., West Virginia, March 24,
1825. Her parents received the Gospel
when she was a child, and were faithful
Latter-day Saints. With them she went
up to Missouri, and afterwards to Nauvoo.
Illinois, sharing in all the hardships and
persecutions of those early times. In Nau-
voo she became the wife of Alfred B.
Lambson, with whom she left the city at
the time of the exodus in 1846, and shared
in the perils of that eventful period. Broth-
er and Sister Lambson came to Utah, ar-
riving in September, 1847. Here, as be-
fore, she endured all the privations and
trials incident to pioneer life in the new
and barren, desert country, and passed
through all the hardships of that period
without murmuring or wavering in her
faith. Her last illness was a total breaking
up of the entire forces of life. She had
been delicate in health for many years, and
at last succumbed to the inevitable, with-
out complaint, only desiring to rest and be
at peace.
	The deceased was the mother of four
children, three daughters and one son all

[Column 2]
still living to mourn a tender and devoted
mother, to whom they were most devotedly
attached. She has left thirty grandchildren,
ten great grandchildren and an aged hus-
band, the companion of her youth, and to
whom she was fondly attached through
more than half a century.
	The funeral services were held on Friday
October 27, at 2 p. m., at the residence of
President Joseph F. Smith, her son-in-law,
and were conducted by Bishop W. J.
Beatie, Bishop of the Seventeeth Ward, in
which she had resided ever since the ward
was organized. 
	The services opened by singing “O, my
Father, Thou that dwellest,’ etc. Prayer
was offered by Bishop Emery, of the Six-
teenth Ward. The choir sang “When first
the glorious light of truth,” etc.
	The first speaker was Elder George B.
Wallace, a near neighbor, and one who had
known her from the settling of these val-
leys. He told of her many virtues and her
strict integrity to the truth under all cir-
cumstances, and gave a brief retrospect of
the early days, the organization of wards,
quorums, and so on, and paid a glowing
tribute to this excellent woman.
	Bishop Elijah S. Sheets followed, and
testified of the faith and integrity of the en-
tire family of Brother Bigler, (the father)
members of which he had been intimately
acquainted with in the days of Nauvoo.
	Apostle John Henry Smith spoke of the at-
tractive and entertaining qualities of Sister
Lambson, whom he had known from his
boyhood up. Alluded also to the family of
Brother and Sister Bigler and their great
faith in the Gospel, and referred to the
aged brother of the deceased, Brother Jacob
Bigler, a Patriarch of the Church, still liv-
ing in Nephi, Utah, yet not able to come
to Salt Lake City to attend the funeral; a
man of strict integrity and unquestioning
faith. He also spoke with affection and in
terms of praise of Sister Bathsheba W.
Smith, the only one of the Bigler sisters
still living. Many excellent tributes, were
paid Sister Lambson in the remarks made
by the several speakers. 
	Bishop Beatie made some closing re-
marks in which he mentioned more recent
matters pertaining to Sister Lambson’s life,
and the acquaintance he made with her
when acting as a teacher in the ward, and
afterwards as her Bishop.
	The closing hymn was, “We shall meet
beyond the river.” The music was furn-
ished by the Sixteenth Ward choir, and
was very choice in selection and well ren-
dered. The benediction was pronounced
by Counselor Frank S. Tingey.
	Sister Lambson looked peaceful and hap-
py in her beautiful robes as she lay in the
white casket, and many were the floral
tributes from loving and sympathetic rela-
tives and friends. Her remains were fol-
lowed to the cemetery by a numerous pro-
cession of those who loved and honored her
memory. The grave was dedicated by
Patriarch Jesse B. Martin, and Sister Lamb-
son’s mortal body was laid peacefully away
to await the morning of the resurrection of
the just.
	“Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from
henceforth, yea t[-]ey rest, from t[-]eir labors and
their works do follow t[-]em.”


IF we had no faults ourselves we should
not be so quick to observe those of our
friends.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.
	THE Convention of the State Federation
of Clubs, held October 26, 27 and 28, in
the Congregational Church, in this city,
was both interesting and successful. The
papers and addresses were of a high char-
acter intellectually and bespoke the great
interest awakened among women on sub-
jects of vital importance. Mrs. A. V. Tay-
lor’s address of welcome, Mrs Ewing’s paper
upon Fiction, Mrs Lund’s paper and Dr.
Elliot’s, were all excellent, and we shall be
very glad to make further mention of these
meetings hereafter.
	MRS. CARRIE CHAPMAN CATT and Miss
Mary G. Hay, of New York City, are tour-
ing in the West in the interest of Equal
Suffrage. Both are fine looking, and are
women of marked ability. Mrs. Catt is
one of the finest speakers on the platform,
that there is in the suffrage work. They
came here from Montana and went direct
from Salt Lake to San Francisco. At a
meeting of ladies in this office on Monday,
October 30, at 3 p. m., a Central Committee
was organized to do special work in this
State in the interest of suffrage for other
parts of the country. Mrs. F. S. Richards
is chairman; Mrs J. Fewson Smith secre-
tary; Mrs. Ella W. Hyde, treasurer; Mrs.
E. J. McFarlane, chairman canvassing
committee. The ladies represented three
counties. A meeting to complete the or-
ganization and plan will be held at Mrs. P.
P. Jennings’ residence, on Saturday at 3 p.
m., November 4.
	THE ladies of the W. C. T. U. who were in
the city Sunday and Monday, were tendered
a reception by the Central Board of the
Y. L. N. M. I. A., in the parlors of the Bee
Hive, the residence of President Lorenzo
Snow, on Monday afternoon. The rooms
were tastefully decorated with flowers and
plants. Mrs. Snow, the hostess, is an
active member of the Board, Mrs. E. S.
Taylor is president and Miss Ann M. Can-
non secretary. Other members assisted in
receiving and in serving dainty and delicate
refreshments. Miss Bessie Edmonds ren-
dered very sweetly two charming songs,
“Good Bye Sweet Day” and “Slumber’s
Sweet Lullaby. Fine selections on the
piano were artistically executed.


R. S. REPORT. 
WAYNE STAKE. 
	The Relief Society conference of Wayne
Stake was held September 17, 1899, in the 
Thurber Relief Society hall. Stake Presi-
dent W. E. Robison and a number of 
brethren were present, and President Jane 
S. Coleman presided. 
	The Thurber choir sang “Guide us, O
Thou Great Jehovah.” Prayer by Patri-
arch E. H. Blackburn. Singing, “I long
to breathe the mountain air.” Minutes of 
the previous conference read by the secre-
tary and accepted. 
	President Coleman desired the blessings 
invoked by our beloved patriarch realized 
throughout our conference. Said the aim 
of the Relief Society is high, it is one of 
the privileges of the Gospel. We should 
sustain purity and virtue. The Lord has 
commanded that we bring up our children 
in light and truth, we should lead in every-
thing that has a tendency to elevate. The 
presidency had visited all the local branches
and found them in good condition. The


[Column 1]
poor and needy had been looked after, and
union prevailed. An effort had been made
to obey counsel in planting mulberry trees
in view of silk culture in the future. It
had been successful, and she hoped the
society would double its efforts another sea-
son. Felt the blessing of the Lord had
been upon our labors, and she felt very ap-
preciative for His many mercies.
	Counselor Mary E. Hanks said we need
the aid of the priesthood at all times. Our
leading brethren and sisters are trying to
prepare us for the events that are coming.
The time has come when we have to live
up to the principles of the Gospel. Now is
the time to shake off our indifference.
Spoke on the word of wisdom, also on pay-
ing tithes and offerings, and of the mission
of motherhood and the good lives we as
sisters should lead.
	Counselor Sarah J. Forsythe said we
should teach our children the principles of
the Gospel and encourage them to attend
their meetings. We should keep all the
commandments more strictly.
	President Louisa J. Taylor reported the
Fremont branch. They are a united band
of sisters.
	President Margaret J. Taylor reported
Loa branch, they are energetic. With the
aid of the Young Ladies, the society there
had purchased a lot in a better location
than the present one. Both the associations
intend to unite in building a suitable hall
to meet in.
	President W. E. Robinson was pleased
to have the privilege of attending Relief
Society conference in such a comfortable
building, and pleased to see so many out.
“The remarks have been directed to the
mothers, who have the forming of the
minds of future generations. We are made
strong by sustaining one another, he loved
to see and sustain Relief Society work.
We all have responsibility placed upon us.
Every sister should be an active member.
Prayed the Lord to bless all connected with
the good work.
	Singing. Benediction by Bishop N. W.
Mansfield.
	Afternoon session. Singing, “Come, O
Thou King of kings.” Prayer by Elder
Edgar Jeffrey. Singing, “The happy day
is rolling on.”
	President Sarah G. Meeks reported the
Thurber branch as prospering.
	Sister Juliette Blackburn spoke on some
of the instructions given at the last confer-
ence, and bore testimony to the efficacy of
prayer.
	Patriarch Blackburn said there could be
no heaven without the sisters. He was
here to bless the sick, felt to bow before the
Lord continually and thank Him for His
power made manifest. Said there is not
enough devotion and spirituality cultivated.
Our young sisters should guard their virtue
as they would their lives. Angels are
watching us. The sisters hold in their
hands the destiny of the home.
	Secretary Anna Coleman presented the
General Board and Stake officers, and they
were sustained by unanimous vote. Tor-
rey and Grover branches were reported by
their respective presidents as doing well.
	President Elizabeth Rust reported Caine-
ville. She said in summer time, instead of
making quilts and sewing at working
meetings, they all met on that day and
turned out with their hoes and cultivated
their lot, which is planted with mulberry
trees, beans and corn. It gave the sisters

[Column 2]
rosy cheeks. She gave other good advice
on society work.
	Sister Sarah A. Robison said if we are
united in our efforts a great amount of
good can be accomplished. We should be
charitable one to another.
	Bishop M. W. Mansfield was pleased
with the untiring efforts of the sisters, and
was gratified at having the conference held
in Thurber Ward. We should be very
humble and prayerful, and acknowledge
the hand of the Lord in all things.
	Sister Nancy Blackburn realized that the
spirit of the Lord had been present. Spoke
of having seen the Prophet Joseph Smith
and heard him prophesy, and had his words
fulfilled. “If we are faithful we will live
to see great events transpire. We live in a
glorious dispensation.”
	Sister Maria Jakeman reported Lyman
branch doing well.
	President Jane S. Coleman was gratified
with the good reports of the presidents.
Advised, where grain had been raised this
season, to gather as usual and store it up.
When Relief Society teachers visit, their
conversation should be of Relief Society
work and the Gospel.
	Thurber Relief Society Hall was then
dedicated, President N. E. Robison offer-
ing the dedicatory prayer.
	Benediction by Bishop W. H. Morrill.
			ANNA COLEMAN, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


REAPER’S CLUB.
	The Reaper’s Club held its first meeting
after an adjournment for the summer, at
the EXPONENT office, Templeton, on Sep-
tember 11, 1899.
	A very interesting paper was read by
Mrs. Amelia Woolley Wardrop, on the life
of Benjamin Franklin. She mentioned
incidents in his early life that exerted an
influence upon his character and energies,
and that were instrumental in making him
successful in the midst of unfavorable sur-
roundings. At one time he published the
Pennsylvania Gazette, in which he wrote
some important articles, etc.; also published
an almanac in 1733, that was quite a won-
derful work in that day, and commenced
the study of languages. He afterwards
occupied positions of trust, and was sent to
England and France to perform important
services for his country. He invented the
lightning conductor, by discovering the in-
fluence exerted by the electric current while
flying his famous kite. He was one of the
signers of the Declaration of Independence.
He died in 1790, at the age of eighty-four
ears.
	Mrs. Mary L. Morris gave a sketch of
the life of George Stephenson, inventor of
the railroad locomotive.
	These subjects were discussed by mem-
bers, and the many wise sayings of Frank-
lin, and his wonderful career, were talked
of; also Stephenson’s genius and inven-
tions.
	The club met again on September 25,
and after transacting some considerable
business, a program was rendered.
	First, a short but instructive sketch of
the life of Robert Fulton, by Mrs. Ida
Haag, his early life and orphanage when a
boy. Fulton constructed some famous iron
bridges, and also invented a diving boat,
but the name of Robert Fulton became
most famous as inventor of the steamboat.
He died in 1850, and was buried near Trin-
ty Church, New York.


The club program concluded, as it al-
ways does, with mentioning current events,
which, at the present time, are quite im-
portant.
				J. A. DRUCE,
						Act Sec.

	On October 23, the club was addressed
by Mrs. Annie Lewis Johnson, on the sub-
jects of self culture and hygiene, of which
she herself is an able exponent.
	President Zina D. H. Young was present,
which was a great pleasure to the ladies of the
club, as of late her many duties have pre-
vented her being with us except now and
then. Her name heads the roll of honor of
the Reaper’s Club, among whom are also
President Jane S. Richards, President
Bathsheba W. Smith and President M. Isa-
bella Horne. Though we rarely have their
presence to grace our meetings, yet we ap-
preciate their coming whenever it is pos
sible for them to attend.


LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting con-
vened in the 14th ward hall, September 30,
1899, at 2 p. m., President M. I. Horne
presiding.
	Meeting opened with singing, “Lord we
come before Thee now.” Prayer by Sister
M. W. Wilcox. Singing, “O say what is
truth.” Minutes of previous meeting read
and approved.
	President Horne said when we come to
the house of the Lord, we should leave our
cares at home and centre our minds upon
God; that without the spirit of God we can-
not live acceptably. Alluded to the simpli-
city of the Gospel. Said the spirit of God
helps us under all trying circumstances if
we put our trust in Him. Referred to the
trials of the Saints in the early days, and
how God has blessed them. Spoke also of
the blessings we have in making the earth
so productive, and the privilege women
have in gaining useful knowledge, and also
the many duties devolving upon us in
various ways.
	Sister Brown felt if we cultivate the spir-
it of God our minds will be enlightened and
our understanding quickened. Referred to
the importance of Temple work.
	Sister Rachel Grant spoke of her visit to
Cache Valley, and the good spirit enjoyed
at the conference there. President Snow
shook hands with three hundred children;
she never saw healthier or finer children.
She thought it a great privilege to pay
tithing. We should keep the command-
ments of God and observe the laws of
nature. We could live to be healthier and
happier by observing these laws. Thought
the time was drawing near when we could
go back to Jackson Co. Desired to live
that she might be among those who return
to do that work. She looked upon trials
as blessings in disguise, and rejoiced that
she was associated with the best people on
the earth.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith thought we
should be more interested and do more
Temple work; should be economical and
not run into debt: pay our tithing and help
pay the Church debt, and redeem our dead.
The Prophet Joseph promised if we would
do our duty and keep the commandments
of God, we should reclaim our children,
none will be lost.
	The congregation sang “The spirit of
God.”


Sister Jane James and Sister Rawlings
each bore testimony.
	Sister Mary E. Bassett had seen the
Egyptian mummies at the Prophet Joseph’s,
and some of the records that were with
them; she bore her testimony.
	Sister Martha Morris sang a hymn. 
	Counselor Elizabeth Stevenson said she
had visited Tooele Stake Relief Society,
and enjoyed meeting with the sisters there.
Spoke of the trials of mothers in these days
in raising children with so many allure-
ments around us.
	The congregation sang “Our God we
raise to Thee.”
	Sister Johnson was introduced by Presi-
dent Horne, and said this was one of the
happiest days of her life, to be in Zion. She
had been baptized twenty-two years ago,
but had lived in the world, and had been in
dangerous places many times but she had
the promise of life, and did not fear. Spoke
of the blessings our sisters had enjoyed in
seeing angels; such a thing was not known
in the world. She had always borne a
testimony of the Gospel where the privilege
of doing so was afforded. Spoke of break-
ing the laws of nature; if we do, we must
endure the penalty. We must get our
bodies under control by relaxing  every
joint and muscle of the body. Said she
wished to form a class to study the laws of
health. By observing the laws and exer-
cising faith, we as a people can enjoy health.
Spoke of the necessity of an exercise of
faith. She wished to live with this people
and give her time to the work.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks with
singing and benediction by Sister Julia C.
Howe.
			J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
OBITUARY.
HELEN RIDLEY WEBB.
	Mrs. Helen Ridley Webb was born in the City
of London, England, May 29, 1815, and died in
Salt Lake City, Utah, U. S. A., September 22,
1899. Her father, William Ridley, was descended
in a direct line from the famous Nicholas Ridley,
Bishop of London, crown chaplain in the 16th
century, an eminent and learned Divine, distin-
guished not only in the annals of literature and
art, but in the higher and perilous fields of social
and religious reform, at a period when superstition
and fanatacism bound the very souls of men, and
often sealed in silence the lips of such as fain
would be champions of right and humanity, or
doomed them to the dungeon and the stake, where
terminated the mortal career of Bishop Ridley.
But the fires of bigotry which consumed his body
only served to set at liberty the undying spirit of
human right and religious freedom, which we find
bursting forth again, though in a modified degree,
in the life and character of Helen, who, like her
great ancestor, became early in life impressed with
the idea that the religious sects of the day had
deviated from the original plan of human redemp-
tion, that some vital principle was missing from
the perfect scheme. While in this form of mind
she met with the Mormon missionaries early in
1850. She carefully investigated their doctrines,
and became convinced that they possessed that
which had been missing, and forthwith identified
herself with them.
	Her husband, Samuel Whitehead Webb, to
whom she had been married July 10, 1836, also
embraced the same faith, and for a time ran well,
but his ardor cooled, his faith failed and eventual-
ly he stepped aside altogether. Then she realized
to its fullest extent what it is to stand alone, but
her strength was equal to her day. She conse-
crated herself and her future, and commenced her
life’s work in earnest.
	One of her first moves was to suggest, and, with
aid from the proper authorities, organized a Sab-
bath School at Camden Town, London, in the
year 1854, which proved a complete success, and
in it she labored diligently until her emigration in
1877.
	She was the mother of tweve children, six sons

[Column 2]
and six daughters, four of whom preceded her to
Utah, and her youngest, Fredrick O. Webb, fol-
lowed later.
	On her arrival here she settled in the 20th
ward, which was divided soon after and she was
in the 21st ward, with Captain Andrew Burt
as Bishop, and H. J. Foulger and W. L. N. Allen as
Counselors. The new ward was organized as
usual with a Relief Society, in which she became
an active and zealous member. A Sabbath School
with a primary department, to which she was called.
Only those familiar with teaching can fully realize
the peculiar tact and skill required in the success-
ful management of such a department; for it is in
the primary or infant school that the foundation is
laid for the future moral and intellectual structure.
For such work Sister Webb was by nature amply
qualified, hence she made a success of this, too.
A general organization for social and intellectual
purposes was formed, composed of both sexes and
all ages, called the “Twenty First Ward Mutual
Improvement Association.” She was one of the
first to volunteer for membership. Here, as every-
where else, she rendered valuable service, prompt-
ly responding to every call made upon her by the
committee on programs, on which committee she
was in turn called to serve. 
	Her co-workers, and those who knew her best,
saw in all she did and all she said, the individual
stamp of her native modesty and dignity. She
was remarkably patient and enduring, firm as the
hills, her word could be counted on, for it was in
very deed her bond. She was proud and sensitive,
and self-dependent as far as possible, and at this
time supported herself by teaching a private
school Thus fully employed she steadily pursued
the even tenor of her way, blessing and being
blessed, until the infirmities of nature forced her
into retirement, where her chief pleasure was to
converse on the redemption of the race, and the
principles of the Gospel as revealed to the Prophet
Joseph, when her friends called upon her to chat
with, or read to her, the beaming countenance and
sparkling eye was ample reward for their trouble.
	During her busy days she had not neglected her
Temple duties. All that circumstances would per-
mit had been done. Therefore, there was nothing
left for her to do but meekly fold her hands and
say, “Now, O Lord, let Thine handmaid depart
in peace,” and it was verily so. At the close of
day, when men seek their couches for natural rest,
she sought hers, slightly ailing, it is true, but
nothing to alarm, no racking pain, no agonizing
struggle, only somewhat labored breathing. In a
natural voice she asked for water which was given
her and which she drank. Then turning slightly
over, she breathed her last.
	Two only of her children were with her, the rest
were summoned. Their shock can be imagined,
but not described. Was it possible? Surely this
could not be death! Piteously they called upon
her to speak to them once more, only once. But
all was silence. She had said her say, she had
finished her work, her record was sealed and her
example before them.
	Another earthly race is run,
	Another glorious victory won,
	Another grave on the hillside made,
	Another Saint to rest is laid,
	Another empty chair have we,
	A place with the great redeemed has she,
	Sleep, darling mother, sweetly sleep!
	For thou no more shalt wake to weep.
								I. F. S.


DEBORAH SAMPSON—A WOMAN OF THE
REVOLUTION.
BY ALICE BURKE.
 (Continued.)

	They reached the camp and Rob grew
brighter. He even contrived to help him-
self down from the horse.
	“Come with me and let me dress the
wound,” again the Doctor urged. But
Deborah answered coldly, “I’m sorry, sir, 
but I can do that myself. I want my tent
alone. Can you not help me to this, Doc-
tor?”
	Ben turned angrily away.
	“Come then,” and he led her to a tent,
where he left her, after giving her band-
pages, etc.
	Once alone she bravely dressed the deep
and painful wound, spite of the agony
she endured, and thus she escaped detec-

[Column 2]
tion. She was in constant fear of Dr. 
Gannett. His searching gaze seemed to 
penetrate beyond the disguise she wore.
She dared not follow him farther, so when
orders came for moving she pleaded sick
leave and was left behind. She was to
care for others as soon as she recovered,
which was shortly. Dr. Gannett remon-
strated at the ill luck that separated him
from the youth who so deeply interested
him. He said as much to him, but only
met with a cool rejoinder, bidding him do
his duty and follow his regiment. When
he was gone and Deborah was quite re-
covered, she began to care for the sick and
wounded. She was placed in charge of
one special soldier who was very ill. They
were lodged in the family of a Dutchman,
Van Tassel by name, and a Tory to boot.
	Deborah suspected as much and was on
the alert for action. Van Tassel had a
very pretty daughter, Mina. She was be-
trothed to David Brenton, Deborah’s
former lover. He had gone over to the
Tories.
	So far Deborah escaped detection, for she
was changed since he saw her, bronzed by
the sun and worn from hardships. She
avoided him as much as possible, and he
showed no signs of recognition, but mani-
fested an insane jealousy of her attentions to
Mina, as they presumably came from a
handsome young soldier. But Deborah
continued them, thus finding out the secret
meetings of the Tories, who met at Van
Tassel’s house.
	On a dark night she made her way to the
American camp and disclosed the plot to
the Colonel. He immediately ordered a
party of men to aid her, putting her in
command. She rushed off boldly with
them, surrounded Van Tassel’s home just
as a meeting was in progress and captured
fifteen Tories. In the midst of the fray
Deborah found that she was being attacked 
by Sergeant Brenton.
	She parried his sword thrusts as best she
could. But his skill was too much for her
and he gave her an ugly gash, inflicting a
wound which opened the old one.
	She staggered, nearly falling, but she
overcame her weakness. Her coat was
colored with blood. The flickering candles
in the kitchen, where they fought, threw a
light on her pale, determined face.
	“To the death!” she called out to her
comrades as they wavered a second. “Don’t
let them go, my men. On, on to victory!”
	She rushed madly at the Sergeant again,
who by this time was thoroughly incensed
and was fixed in his desire to kill his
assailant. His thrusts became surer.
	Suddenly he observed the young man’s
appearance, the bedraggled uniform, the
disordered hair matted with blood from a
scalp wound, the wide open dark eyes, a 
strange memory stirred him. He had seen
the face before. Where? And then it 
was clear to him. He saw a girl at a win-
dow in the moonlight, looking down at
him. He held back his sword and grasped
the boy’s wrist and bent closer. Scanning
him mercilessly, Deborah read recognition
in his eyes. The room swam about her. 
	“My God,” he said, “who are you?
Speak.”
	She nerved herself bravely for the
answer, leaning against a table. The
other combatants were fighting outside now
and they were comparatively alone.
	“Speak,” he repeated.
	“My name is Robert Shirtliff,” she said
boldly.


[Column 1]
	“It’s a lie!” he exclaimed, drawing her
directly under the light. He pushed back
the matted hair and looked long and pas-
sionately at her as if for months he had
wished for this moment.
	“’Tis Deborah, Deborah my lost love.
My poor girl,” he said tenderly and clasped
her in his arms, kissing her lips, her brow
with a wild passion. She was in a half un-
conscious state and realized very little that
occurred.
	“God help me,” David said, “I have
wounded you—I—”
	“Nothing,” she gasped, “let me die.”
	“No, no,” she heard as in a dream and
then another voice broke upon her senses
A voice she remembered but too well, 
a voice which thrilled her and then bending 
over her she saw Ben Gannett.
	“Ben,” she said, trying to raise herself,
but finding it impossible, and David suc-
ceeded in getting her to her feet by holding
her in his arms.
	Dr. Gannett looked amazed to find an
enemy caring for her.
	“You are wounded, Rob, my poor boy,”
he said.
	“Yes, to the death, Ben,” Deborah mut-
tered, dragging herself forcibly away from
Brenton’s detaining hand, and throwing
her arms suddenly about Ben’s neck.
	“To the death,” she said again, and 
then lay quiet.
	“Not that,” he remonstrated gently,
while he raised her head to look at her.
	She was deathly pale, her eyes closed,
this time she was in a deep swoon.
	“And I have done it. God forgive me,”
David said brokenly.
	Ben was more surprised at this remark,
but bade him lend a hand, and together
they carried her to the camp, and straight
to the Doctor’s tent, where they laid her
down. It was here David Brenton told 
Deborah’s secret to Ben Gannett, whose
astonishment was manifest. The two men,
however, swore allegiance to her, each
promising to keep the secret, until a proper
time came to divulge it, and the Doctor
seemed to see when that would be.
	David, with a miserable remorse tugging
at his heart, was forced to return to his
duties, and to his promise to marry Mina,
whom he had never really loved. He found
his role a difficult one, but he played it
honorably, only going regularly to inquire
for the young soldier. The Doctor cau-
tioned him not to come after she began to
recover, fearing she might suspect he had
told her secret. So David stayed away .and
Deborah did not see him again for many
years, and when they did meet he was
married to Mina.
	It is needless to say that during Deborah’s
illness, which followed on her wounds, Dr.
Gannett never left her, and allowed no one
else to nurse her. He found a deeper senti-
ment than duty kept him by her side—he
loved her, but how to tell her. He read
her proud yet sensitive nature like an open
book, and hardly dared to think how this
great love for her might end.
	One day in the early autumn, Deborah,
weak and emancipated, walked outside the
tent with Ben’s assistance. It was difficult
to guard every word and look as he felt her
soft hand in his. He wanted to throw dis-
cretion to the winds, and tell his love to
her and hold her in a close embrace, but
looking now upon her lovely face, pure and
innocent as a child’s, he controlled himself,
and she never imagined that her truest
friend knew her as she was. Many had

[Column 2]
been the inquiries for Rob during his ill-
ness, and the soldiers crowded around him
as he came out in the faded blue regimentals.
Their brave faces were anxious and yet in
the eyes of many were tears at the sight of
the wan face and eager eyes. The Doctor,
seeing them so moved, put on a jovial man-
ner and turned the conversation to lighter
topics, and the morning passed pleasantly.
Thus day by day Deborah grew stronger,
and soon expressed a wish to take up her
duties as before, but she found opposition
in the Doctor.
	“It’s no use, Ben,” as he had insisted
upon being called, “I must join the ranks
once more, I must have action. See, I am
quite strong now.” A bright flush mounted
her cheeks while she spoke. She looked to
him very womanly as she stood before him.
The glance he bent upon her made her un-
easy.
	“I cannot and will not allow you to go,
Rob,” the Doctor said finally. “But if you
wont listen to me, I have secured a com-
mission, or rather a letter, from the Colonel
to General Washington, which you have
been ordered to carry to him. It is of im-
portance.”
	He did not meet her eyes and a hundred
misgivings came to him.
	“Will you take it?” he asked, holding it.
towards her. 
	“Yes, of course, at once, today. ” she
answered quickly.
	“But why this haste? Within a month
the Colonel’s orders were.”
	“Very well. Give it to me.”
	He did so.
	“Strange how contrary you are, Rob.”
	“It is not that, Ben. But I must be on
the go, some action, serving my country.”
	“Yes, but you cannot now.”
	“We shall see.”
	He suddenly drew her inside his tent and
placing both hands on her shoulders forced
her to look into his eyes. Her’s were filled
with defiance yet he perceived a wavering,
a fear in their clear depths.
	“Rob,” he said, “don’t be reckless again.
You have very nearly lost your life. Try
to think of me, for—for—you are very dear
to me.”
	“Thank God, sir, for that,” Deborah
said fervently.
	How he rejoiced to hear the eager tone.
How well he knew every outline of her
face. Had he not watched over her for
eight long weeks until her loveliness was
imprinted on his memory, never to be
effaced.
		(To be continued.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St. 
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail.
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

[Column 2]

[shield logo]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD’S PICTORIAL LINE.

[to the right of the logo]
THE PEOPLE’S FAVORITE. 

		Leave Salt Lake City
No. 6 The “Fast Mail” for Chicago, St. Paul, St. 
	Louis, Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and
	Park City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7 00 a.m.
No. 2 The “Over and Limited” for Chicago, St. 
	Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
	Denver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	11 45 a.m.
No. 4 The “Atlantic Express” for Chicago, St.
	Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver . .	6 40 p.m.
		Arrive Salt Lake City.
No. 5 The “Fast Mail” from Chicago, St. Louis,
	Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and Park
	City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3 00 p. m
No. 1 The “Overland Limited” from Chicago, St.
	Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver . . .	3 00 p.m. 
No 3. The ‘Pacific Express” from Chicago, St.
	Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
	Denver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3 30 p. m.
CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 Main St.		Telephone 665.
					H. M. CLAY, General Agent. 

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married 
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

OREGON SHORT LINE RAILROAD.

Time Table in Effect October 15, 1899.

	Trains will arrive and depart at Salt Lake City daily as fol-
lows:
				ARRIVE:
From Ogden, Chicago, Omaha, St. Louis and Denver, 3:30 a.m
From Ogden, Portland, Butte, Helena and San Fran-
	cisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	9:05 a.m.
*From Milford, Sanpete, Provo and Intermediate
	points . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	9:35 a.m.
From Ogden, Chicago, St. Louis, Omaha, Denver and
	San Francisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3:00 p.m.
**From Garfield Beach, Tooele and Terminus. . . . . .	4:00 p.m.
From Tintic and Mercur . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	6:30 p.m.
Cache Valley Express, from Preston, Logan, Ogden
	and intermediate points. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	6:40 p.m.
From Ogden, Butte, San Francisco and intermediate 
	points. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7:50 p.m.
				DEPART.
For Ogden, Omaha, Chicago, Denver, St. Louis and
	Cache Valley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7:00 a.m.
For Tintic and Mercur . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7:55 a.m.
**For Garfield Beach, Tooele and Terminus. . . . . . . .	7:45a.m.
For Ogden, Butte, Helena, Portland and Intermediate
	points . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	9:45 a.m.
For Ogden, Omaha, Chicago, Denver, St. Louis and
	San Francisco	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	11:45 a.m.
*For Provo, Sanpete, Milford and intermediate points	5:30 p.m.
For Ogden, Denver, Omaha, St. Louis and Chicago . .	6.40 p.m.
For Ogden, Butte, San Francisco and intermediate 
	points . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	8:45 pm.
*Trains south of Juab do not run Sundays.
**Daily except Sunday.
City Ticket Office Under Masonic Hall, 2nd South St.
S. W. ECCLES,		D. E. BURLEY,
Gen. Traffic Manager.	Gen. P. nd T. A,
		W. H. BANCROFT.
	Vice-President and Gen’l Manager.


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 28.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 15 & DECEMBER 1, 1899.		Nos. 12 & 13.


CONTENTS.
Deborah Sampson—A Woman of the Revolution
	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Alice Burke	73.
Special Meeting at Heber City, A. M. Lambert	74.
Speech of Miss Anthony . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	75.
General Relief Society Conference, E. B. W.		77.
Obituary—Cornelia Pratt Driggs. . . . . . . . . . . . .	79.
	Julia A. Tanner. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	79.
	Jane St. Clair Gillies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	79.
R. S. Reports—North London Relief Society	79.
	Omaha Relief Society . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	79.
Ladies Semi-Monthly Meeting . . . J. S. Woolley	79.
Miss Anthony on Roberts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	80.
Insignia of Fashionable Woe. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Elizabeth Cady Stanton	80.
EDITORIAL—Notes by the Way. . . . . . . . . . . .	76.
	Editorial Notes . . . . . . . . . .r. . . . . . . . . . . .	77.
POETRY—Speak to Me Kindly . . M. A. Freeze	73.
	The Cage. . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert Lovemore	75.


SPEAK TO ME KINDLY.

Speak to me kindly, friend,
	Smile as you pass me by,
In sympathy sweet, O send 
	A glance from your friendly eye.

You know not how much of cheer
	May be couched in a single word,
It may not yet appear,
	How deeply the soul is stirred.

We cannot know the heart,
	Nor the burden of those we meet,
See the tear-drop ready to start,
	And the weary, faltering feet.

But rest assured of this,
	Not even a smile is lost,
What the giver can never miss,
	May bring joy to the tempest-tossed.

There may be a longing sore
	For the blessings which are ours;
Some miss friends who will come no more,
	In their lives are darkened hours.

Some are weary with toil,
	They scarcely find time to pray.
Then should we not give of our oil,
	To brighten their darksome way?

It may seem a little thing,
	To ask for a word, a smile,
But, O, ’twill a halo fling,
	And the care-worn heart beguile.

We cannot live for self,
	Without a thought for others,
Enjoying worldly pelf,
	Ignoring sisters, brothers.

In God’s eternal plan,
	He did not will it so,
His love for sinful man
	In endless streams doth flow

And He has said. “My child
	Come thou and follow me,
I’ll shield from tempests wild,
	And make thee glad and free.”

O, may this holy love
	Fill up our souls alway,
Descending from above,
	Prompt all our acts each day.
				MARY A. FREEZE.


LADYSMITH is called after the wife of Sir
Harry Smith, formerly commanding general
in South Africa. She was a Spanish girl to
whom the General gave protection when he
was a subaltern in the Peninsular war, and
who subsequently married him. Harri-
smith is named after her husband.


[Column 1]
DEBORAH SAMPSON—A WOMAN OF THE 
REVOLUTION.
BY ALICE BURKE.
(Conclusion.)
	Deborah knew her only safety lay in part-
ing from him. She feared she might be-
tray herself if she stayed, for she grew 
restive under the necessity of concealing 
her identity, for never had she been so in-
terested in any one as she was in him. The 
power he exerted over her made her only 
safe in retreat. She dared not look into her 
soul and find a deeper feeling for him,
though she knew too well it was there, so 
now she made light of his earnestness.
	“Dr. Ben,” she said, “It’s useless trying 
to tie me down. My nature is wild and 
free. I want to be away.”
	“As you please then. I’m sorry. Yet, 
Rob, I know that some day you will return 
to me. Good-bye, my boy.”
	He clasped her hands with a strong pres-
sure. His manly countenance grew pale as 
he gazed at her. She saw the anxious 
look, but left him to go to the tent, where 
she packed up a few things and in a little 
while she was gone.
	Ben Gannett meantime went to head-
quarters to see the General. Day after day 
he waited, but no trace of Deborah. She 
meanwhile wandered rather aimlessly 
through the camps, engaged in one or two
expeditions, trying to find the only peace 
she could in forgetfulness. It would not 
come, and finally she became disheartened 
and found that she only had one day to 
reach Washington on the Colonel’s com-
mission. She hastened thither at once.
	She dressed herself in full dress regiment-
als and seemed a gallant youth, as she was 
shown into the presence of General Wash-
ington. He received her with the mem-
bers of his staff about him. The room was 
spacious and three or four long French 
windows allowed the sunlight to glisten 
over the place. The golden rays fell full 
upon the slight figure of Deborah, on the 
gold bands and gilt buttons and hat, with 
its cockade of red, white and blue, and
lighted her inspired face, her gleaming 
eyes and parted lips showing the white 
teeth as she paused in expectancy, waiting 
to hear the General’s orders.
	The hour was midday and the sun was at 
its brightest. Yet while it fell upon 
Deborah, it left one part of the room in 
comparative shadow. She had an un-
comfortable feeling that some one was 
standing looking out, but she did not turn 
to make sure, for she was curious to watch 
Washington, and she became agitated as 
she stood there, with all those great men 
gazing at her. But while she looked at the
General’s noble countenance a great calm-
ness came over her and she delivered the
Colonel’s letter into his hands and stood at 
attention, waiting.
	The room was very still; no sound but 
the rustle of the paper as Washington 
turned a page. When he finished reading 
it he looked at her kindly.
“And you are Robert Shirtliffe,” he said 

[Column 2]
gently. “You are to be commended for 
your bravery.”
	The man in the window turned instantly 
as the General spoke, but Deborah did not 
heed him. She fell on one knee saying,
“Your blessing, General.”
	He gave it and conferred upon her the 
honorary badge of distinction established 
by him. He proceeded to put into her 
hand a discharge from the army, a note of 
praise as well and a few words of advice 
and farewell.
	She rose to withdraw, but some one stood 
beside her. She recognized Ben Gannett.
	Robert,” he exclaimed.
	“You here,” she said in confusion.
	They made their adieus to Washington 
and his staff and departed.
	As they found themselves in the street 
Deborah asked, “How did you come here?”
	“To wait for you, Rob. I wanted to be 
here when you came to help you,” he
answered, with an unmistakable meaning 
in his glance.
	She blushed uncomfortably. He knew 
her secret! She hastily tore open Wash-
ington’s letter containing her dismissal 
from the army and the note of praise for a
woman’s bravery and a bit of advice to a
madcap’s wildness. She laughed nervous-
ly as she said to Ben, “And you, sir, have 
you known my secret, too?”
	“Yes,” he said, laughing with her.
“And now let’s hurry and get to camp.”
	“I’m going home,” she said thought-
fully, “and you will come and see me later
on.”
	“If you want me,” he replied.
	“Of course I want you,” she said.
“How thankful I am,” she continued, “to
that great and good man who so kindly 
spared my feelings. He saw me ready to 
sink with shame. One word from him at 
that moment would have crushed me to the 
earth, but he spoke no word and I bless 
him for it.”
	“You are right, Deborah,” he said, call-
ing her for the first time by her own name 
and she gave him a glance of pleasure.
“General Washington is a noble man.”
	A few months later Ben Gannett rang 
the bell of a humble house in Plympton.
Deborah opened the door for him. She 
was in a pale lavender muslin, her dark 
curls grown a trifle longer, encircling her 
lovely face. The glow of health once 
more showed on her cheeks, her eyes 
beamed with pleasure at beholding him.
	“Ben,” she said, after the greeting, “I
am so glad to see you.”
	She led him into the living room. On a 
hook in a corner hung an army cap and 
sword, and close by her rifle. “See,” she
went on, “the remains of my service to my
country.”
	The enthusiasm, the inspiration lighting 
her dark eyes told him that she had not 
overcome that absorbing passion for her 
country. He did not seek to stifle it, in-
stead he remarked:
	“Yes. Deborah, I see, and who knows, 
you may have occasion to use them again?”
	“No, I think not,” she said. “I have
been away from home so long that I al-


[Column 1]
most forgot my duties here with mother.”
	As he watched her he became more de-
lighted with her womanliness and sweet-
ness.
	“Deborah,” he said, after a while and
during a pause, “I have come here for a
purpose today.”
	“A purpose,” she repeated.
	The room with its ancient furniture, the
great fireplace, where the logs blazed, was
impressed indelibly upon the minds of the
two there, each expectant of the other, each
knowing that a new era was about to open
out before them—an era of some great joy.
	Ben could see his love where she stood by
the fireplace, looking down into the danc-
ing flames, as higher they leaped in a mad
race as if each one wished to go higher than
the other, then were put backwards as
others pushed themselves into their places.
	“Life is like that,” Deborah said thought-
fully, “like the flames. We try to push
ourselves into other’s places. Don’t we,
Ben?”
	“Perhaps. But no one could push them-
selves into your place, Deborah,” he said
earnestly.
	“And why not, Ben?”
	“Because, dear, I love you, and want
only you—you for my wife, dear.”
	“Is it true? you love me after all?” she
asked hesitatingly.
	“Quite true, Deborah. I have loved
you for a long time.”
	“And you really want me, Ben?”
	“Yes, dear.”
	They stood a moment in silence. The
ruddy fanciful light fell over them. He
seemed to her an invincible presence, an
ideal she had dreamed of all her life, and
there he stood before her in veritable truth.
	While she was to him the woman he
loved. Very beautiful, a being who seemed
to him far beyond him in goodness.
	“Tell me, Deborah,” he said, in an in-
sistent voice, “what I want to know. Tell
me, dear.”
	“’Tis love, Ben. I love you,” she said
caressingly.
	He went close to her and looked into her
face. He studied the brave eyes and the
careless, almost reckless courage of the
determined mouth. He knew he must be
strong to control such a nature, but he had
no fear.
	“She underwent the scrutiny calmly.
	“Well,” she said, will you have me for
better or worse? and it’s most like worse.”
	“I wasn’t thinking of that, Deborah,”
he said. “I was thinking of myself and
wondering if I am worthy of' you and
thinking of my happiness in the knowledge
that you love me. Yes, sweetheart, I take
you for better or worse.”
	He drew her to him close within his
arms, kissing her.
	“My love, my love,” he said in low
tones, and Deborah found her happiness at
last in the strong nature revealed to her in
Ben Gannett and his undying love for her.
	In the following April, on the seventh of
that month, 1774, they were married.
	The year that followed she was asked by
Washington to again visit the seat of
government as a guest. So with her hus-
band she returned thither. She was feted
and made much of, attending receptions
given by the officers. She was given a
pension for life.
	At one of the most notable receptions a
request was furthered to her that the people
wished to see her in her regimentals and

[Column 2]
implored her to appear before them thus 
apparelled.
	Deborah hesitated but Ben encouraged
her to comply with the demand, and finally
she sent home for the suit.
	When the memorable night came, she
was in full dress uniform once more, and
carried the self-same rifle which had been
her trusty friend through the war.
	Her curls were tucked under the Wash-
ington hat she wore, and as she stood wait-
ing for Ben, she was a fine youth to behold.
When her husband joined her he stooped
first to kiss her, then said, “My lad once
more, and my love.”
	She laughed merrily.
	“Take care, sir, I may join the service
again.” she said.
	They were shortly entering the large
room where the reception took place.  Men
in gold lace and satin knickerbockers, dia-
mond buckles and lace frills crowded about
them. A hundred candles in tall brass
candlesticks suffused the light. Some one
was singing to the accompaniment of a
spinet. The women in their flowered silks
and satin petticoats and high-heeled slip-
pers and gorgeous buckles, also joined the
crowd around Deborah, who was worthy of
their attention in her brave accoutrements
and her charming face alight with gayety,
her eyes dazzling in their brilliancy.
	An earnest request was given from
Washington to have her go through the
manual of arms with her rifle, which she
readily consented to do. They said of her
afterwards. “She could make a gun talk.”
	But Deborah grew tired of this social
whirl and in a few days they returned
home.
	Dr. Gannett had abandoned his profes-
sion and interested himself about a large
farm, which had been handed down to him
from his ancestors, somewhere in Sharon.
He thoroughly enjoyed the life and though
he had plenty of men to carry on the rough
work, Deborah frequently found him toiling
in the fields on a cool summer’s eve with a
large wide-brimmed hat on his head and in
a suit of home-spun, and she would bid
him come with her for a walk to the sum-
mit of the hill, where they would pause and
watch the moon steal up from the valley,
and later its effulgence would touch the
scene with a glamor of dreaminess and mys-
tery.
	And Deborah clasped her hands about his
arm and said, “It’s very beautiful here,
very beautiful.”
	“Yes,” he answered. “How happy we
are, you and I together. For our life is
love, dear, all of love to live, dear, just
with you.”
	“We’ve had our trial, Ben, haven’t we?”
she continued, as they returned homeward,
“yet I regret nothing of the past, of that
past of my life when I served my country,”
she ended.
	“I know that, Deborah, but now you be-
long to me,” he said firmly.
	“Yes, and I’m not sorry for that either,”
she said gaily.
	They walked slowly through the moon-lit
meadows, while before them the radiance
of the river, on the hills, shimmered seem-
ingly with peace and joy, guiding them
ever onward.
		American Monthly Magazine.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE hospital ship, Princess of Wales,
which has just sailed from England for
Cape Town, was paid for by the Princess.


SPECIAL MEETING AT HEBER CITY.
	Minutes of a special meeting held in the
Heber City Stake House, September 23, 1899.
	Meeting opened with singing “An angel
from on high.” Prayer by Christy Giles.
Continued by singing, “How firm a
foundation.”
	President Anna R. Duke spoke but a
short time, as she desired to hear President
Zina D. H. Young, of Salt Lake City, who
was present.
	President Young addressed the sisters:
“Sisters be faithful and watchful, guard
against faultfinding and never let your chil-
dren hear you speak disrespectfully of any
one, or find fault with the authorities of the
Church. I was present at a meeting in
Nauvoo and heard the Prophet Joseph
Smith say in a discourse, ‘I now turn the
key of knowledge for women.’ Women
have filled an important position in the
Church since that time, and will continue
to do so. It is now over sixty-three years
since I was baptized. I have seen many
changes. We are not working under a
mere belief, but we have the blessing of
assurance. We are sure of a reward if we
prove faithful. It is our privilege to
understand the Gospel. We should study
and read something every day from good
books. Teach your children the principles
of the Gospel, the Gospel is the bread of
life. Let the children learn of the peace of
the Gospel at home. The Lord has great
blessings in store for His handmaidens.”
Sister Young closed her remarks by saying
she desired to hear the sisters talk and
asked the blessings of God to be with
all.
	President Anna Duke introduced Sister
Elizabeth Buzzo, from Salt Lake City, who
made a few remarks; also Sister Catherine
Archibald, of Snyderville, who spoke a
short time.
	Sister Ann Murdock bore her testimony
to the truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Sarah Bond made a few remarks,
also Christy Giles.
	President Anna Duke thought we were
blest to have a sister with us who had seen
the Prophet Joseph Smith.
	Sister Wilson, from Midway, said she
knew Aunt Zina when she was a young
girl. She had lived in President Young’s
family for a number of years, and Aunt
Zina’s every day life was an exemplary
one.
	Sister Zina Young spoke a short time.
Her remarks were on the early rise of the
Church, and the blessings in store for those
that prove faithful.
	President Hatch was very glad to see
Aunt Zina. He had known her since he
was a boy of about ten years of age. Said
the Relief Society was one of the most
helpful organizations in the Church. Asked
the blessing of the Lord to be with all.
	Sister Anna Duke gave all who wished a
chance to shake hands with Sister
Young.
	Meeting closed with singing “Praise to
the man.” Benediction by Sister Ruth
Hatch.
	Sister Zina shook hands with one hun-
dred and twenty-six.
			ALICE M. LAMBERT,
							Act. Sec.


The dark today leads into light tomorrow,
There is no endless joy, no endless sorrow.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SPEECH OF MISS ANTHONY.
AT QUEEN’S HALL, LONDON, JULY 29, 1899.
Mrs. President, Officers and Members of the
	Suffrage Societies of Great Britain and
	Ireland and the world over:
	I wish I might be worthy of the honor
which Mrs. Phillipps gave me of being one
of those who, more than fifty years ago,
assembled in the little town of Seneca Falls,
New York, and made the declaration that
the right to vote is the under-lying right,
the one which protects all other rights.
But I was not there. Lucretia Mott was
there, and Martha C. White, whose daugh-
ter sits beside me, and Elizabeth Cady
Stanton—all signers of the call for that first
Convention. I hear all these women and
the men also, asking “Why is it that when
this first proclamation for the ballot was
made in the United States more than half a
century ago, other countries are getting
ahead of us?” Well, I can assure you
there are many reasons. It is not from any
lack of hard work and persistent effort on
the part of the handful of women who have
stood at the front of this movement in our
country; but the complications are very un-
like those in your own country. Suppose
that here in England, after all your labors,
and after all your magnificent champions—
from John Stuart Mill and Jacob Bright,
down to Mr. Begg—had worked in your
Parliament for years, had urged enactment
of a law, and succeeded in getting it through
the House of Lords, that the question then
had to be voted on by every elector in the
mines, the factories and the rural districts
of England, how much would you expect
to get all at once? And that is the difficul-
ty with us.
	Our revolutionary Fathers proclaimed
equal political rights. At first they made
practical application to a very few men only,
and during the more than a hundred years
battle in our country, those great principles
have been gradually extended to one class
after another. In the beginning only
Church members voted, then only rich men,
then only white men, then only men; that
is, we had an aristocracy of the Church; then
an aristocracy of men of wealth; then an aris-
tocracy of white men, and last we now have
an aristocracy of men. We are simply de-
manding today the application of our funda-
mental principle of political equality to the
other half of our citizens. We are asking
for nothing now, but simply for the prac-
tical application of the old doctrine that was
declared by Hancock and Adams and all
the old revolutionists, who rebelled against
King George because he insisted on taxing
them without giving them the right of
representation. We are insisting today that
the men of the United States shall no long
er continue to violate their principles—to
tax women and deny them representation.
We have what you might call forty-five
Englands: that is, we have forty-five States,
and each State Legislature must first pass a
resolution submitting the question to be
voted upon by the men of that State. We
have succeeded in gaining the franchise in
four states of the Union by this slow pro-
cess.
	Another hindrance I want to mention to
you: every single year over a quarter of a
million of foreign born men are landed on
our shores, fresh from the monarchies of
the Old World, who know nothing at all of
the Declaration of Independence, of the
principle of free and equal government,

[Column 2]
and we have, as General Grant once said, “a
big job on our hands.” We have to edu-
cate a quarter of a million of men every
year into the principles of our American
Institutions. And I want to say to you,
my good friends, that in every one of the
fifteen States in the Union in which the
question has been voted upon, if only the
native born men had had the franchise, the
women in every one of them would have
had the ballot today. I am not sorry that
those men who do not understand our
Institutions have the right to vote, for they
never would understand them if they had
not that right. So we must wait with
patience the slow process of education.
And we have been very patient: in our
half century of agitation and education we
have gained Woman Suffrage in four
States! And besides that, women have
municipal suffrage in one State, a vote on
matters of taxation in several others, and
school suffrage, to a greater or less extent,
in twenty-three States. In over one half of
the States of our Union women are voting
today. In Louisiana, one of the old slave
States, on the sixth day of this month,
women taxpayers in the city of New Orleans
for the first time in history cast their ballots
on the question of taxing the people of that
city for the purpose of building sewers and
improving sanitary conditions. The men
were so considerate of the women that they
made that constitutional proviso, that they
arranged for them to vote by proxy if they
were too modest to go to the ballot box.
When some of the women attempted to get
a proxy they learned that by the law of
Louisiana, a married woman’s name on a
certificate would not stand, therefore they
were compelled to go to the ballot box.
	The distance we have gone in the last
fifty years is beyond computation. Before
I sit down I will tell one little incident
illustrating the condition of things when we
started. I had been a teacher in the State
of New York for fifteen years—from the
age of fifteen to thirty. A State Teachers’
Convention was held in my city of Roches-
ter. Over a thousand women had gathered
in that convention and perhaps two hun-
dred men. Up to that time no woman’s
voice had ever been heard in one of these
conventions; only men had reported the re-
sult of their experience, because it was con-
sidered improper for women to speak in
public. Those men appointed a committee
to prepare resolutions, and one of these de-
clared that teachers were not respected as
were ministers, lawyers and doctors. In
discussing that resolution one man declared
that the profession of teacher was higher
than that of a doctor, of more use to the
community; another, that it was higher
than that of a lawyer, and a third even
affirmed that it was of more service to the
world to train the young than it was to try
to reform them after they had been brought 
up in a crooked way. “And yet,” said
these men, “ministers, doctors and lawyers
are treated with the greatest respect, invited
into the best families, often elected to high
offices, whereas schoolmasters are treated
slightingly, and are often called Miss Nan-
cies and old grandmothers!” I listened
with a great deal of interest, and at length
—having been born a Quaker, and always
taught that God inspired a woman to speech
just as weil as a man—I rose in my seat and
said, “Mr. President!”
	The president was a Professor of Mathe-
matics at West Point, a pompous man,
wearing a blue coat, brass buttons and buff

[Column 3]
vest. He stepped to the front of the plat-
form, and inserting his thumbs in his arm-
holes, asked, “What will the lady have?”
	The idea never entered that man’s cran-
ium that a woman could rise in her seat and
address the chair just like a man! And I
said, “Mr. President and gentlemen, I
would like to say a word on the question
under discussion.”
	“Then,” said Professor Davis, “what is
the pleasure of the convention?” And he
looked down to this little handful of men on
the front seats, never casting a furtive
glance to the thousand women crowding
that hall. One man moved that the lady
should be heard, and another seconded, and
they discussed the question for half an hour.
	At last, by a very small majority, it was
decided that the lady should be heard, and
I managed to say, “Mr. President and
gentlemen, I have listened to your discus-
sion with a great deal of interest, but it
seems to me that none of you quite compre-
hend the cause of the disrespect of which
you complain. Do you not see that so long
as society says that a woman hasn’t brains
enough to be either a minister, a lawyer or
a doctor, but has ample brains to be a
teacher, that every man of you who teaches
school practically acknowledges that he
hasn’t any more brains than a woman?”
and sat down.
	As I passed out of the hall at the close of
the session I heard many a woman whisper-
ing to another, “Who is that creature?”
“Where did she come from?” “I was
never so ashamed in my life, I wished the
floor had opened and swallowed me up!”
They wer honest, they really believed
it was degrading to a woman to speak.
	The next morning Professor Davis in
calling the convention to order, assumed
his pompous position and said: “I have
been asked why it is women are not put
upon the committees, why they are not
invited to prepare reports and so on.” And
then he continued: “Look at this mag-
nificent hall, at the beauty of the entabla-
ture, the symmetry of the shaft and the
strength of the pedestal. Could I be instru-
mental in dragging from its proud eleva-
tion that beautiful etablature and rolling it
in the dirt and dust that surround the
pedestal? No, heaven forbid!”
	And he was quite sincere, and really be-
lieved that if a woman stood in an audience
and spoke she would be degraded to the
level of a man. Exactly so now. Men are
afraid that if women vote, if they hold
office, if they sit in Congressional and
Parliamental halls, they will degrade them-
selves to the level of men!!


THE CAGE. 
When song-bird thoughts within his heart
Make melody sublime,   
The Poet snares them by his art
Into a cage of rhyme. 
And there the captive fancies beat
Their wings against the bars, 
The music, soft and low and sweet, 
Ascending to the stars. 
Yet evermore they long to be 
Back where the surges roll,
Untamed, unfettered, wild and free.
Within the Poet's soul. 
		ROBERT LOVEMORE.


LOVE for the dead should not be allowed
to cramp our duty to those who are still
with us.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
Woman's Exponent.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.
     Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah,
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months.
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
    Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
    EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.

	Address all business communications to
					Mrs.E.B.WELLS.
					Salt Lake City, Utah.
Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOV. 15 & DEC.1, 1899


[Column 1]
		WAYSIDE NOTES.
	A hurried journey by train is seldom
very interesting late in the Autumn, when
gray is the prevailing color in the land-
scape, and the road runs far and away from
the largest towns, only skirting the outside
edge to call one, two or three minutes at
stations to take on passangers, or allow
them barely time to jump off. However,
we did get a glimpse of a muddy river here
and there, and American Falls, which
diversify the scenery just a little, and are
always a momentary delight to the weary
traveler. A dining car en route is a posi-
tive luxury, and when one finds it has been
left at some station by the way, it is sure
to be disappointing. All things considered,
the trip to Northern Idaho was pleasant
until we had to change from a Pulman to
an accommodation train and stay over night
at a country hotel. However, one who
writes can occupy the time, if there is noth-
ing more important to be done; though
when one is expected to furnish an original
sentiment for an exceptional gathering of
relatives and friends, one needs to be in-
spired, and a railway train and country
hot 1 are not specially inviting to a way-
ward muse.
	Here we heard the latest news from the
court at Moscow (not in Russia, but in
Idaho) of the decision concerning strikers,
and saw some of the men who had been
in the “Bull Pen,” but were released and
were now staying at “The Wayside Inn”
at Tekoa, Washington, where we were to
pass the night.
	Early next morning the train for Wallace
was ready, and we pulled out in eager ex-
pectancy of soon reaching our destination.
The day was not as bright as we could have
wished for an anniversary party, but the
sun shone later on, and when we arrived in
Wallace the clouds had nearly disappeared. 
We who live in Utah hardly realize how 
much sunshine we have, until we go far to
the north, where lights are often necessary
at high noon, and always by four in the
afternoon in winter time. Several of the
family were at the station and we were
very soon greeted by all the dear ones who
had gathered for the silver wedding party.
		THE SILVER WEDDING.
	The house was decorated so profusely it
was like a fairy bower of vines and flowers,
artistically arranged and festooned, a real
work of art; in such an Eden one might
have hoped to see one of the “divine nine,”

[Column 2]
but, alas, the time had fled, and very soon 
the guests would arrive.
	The library adjoining the parlor was pre-
pared for the bride and groom to receive
the congratulations in. The bay window
was embowered in beauty even before the
happy couple stood there under the yoke of
green coptis leaves, smilax and roses, with
the figures 1874 and 1899 in silver at oppo-
site corners.
	The bride wore a white satin gown
covered with white silk tulle, embroidered
in silver bow knots, and carried a lorgnette
of pearls, a delicate ivory fan and pale pink
and white roses, with long stems, fine
white slippers with silver clasps, and lace
and silver ornaments in her dark hair. She
looked quite as lovely, but not as shy, as on
her wedding day twenty-five years before.
The bridegroom was attired in the regula-
tion black broadcloth and immaculate linen
collar and cuffs etc., and white silk tie.
	The two daughters wore black silk tulle
over black satin bespangled with brilliants
and profusely trimmed with real lace.
Many of the ladies of the party were very
elegantly gowned, and the gentlemen were
in evening dress, even the military officers,
except one or two young Lieutenants, who
wore their handsome uniforms.
	The parlor, hall and dining room har-
monized in decorations with the library,
carnations, roses and chrysanthemums,
fragrant and abundant, in every nook and
corner.
	There were many handsome and some
very exquisite (silver) gifts, many of them
from other states, as well as a number given
by the fifty or more guests present.
	Besides other delicious refreshments
daintily served, there was a large wedding
cake with the significant figures that marked
the date of the former happy wedding party
in the “dear old home” on State Street.
	Alas, how much has transpired in this
quarter of a century!
	There was some fine instrumental music
by one of the gentlemen, and Mrs. Daisie
Allen rendered in her fine, sympathetic
voice, two or three songs. Mrs. Verona
Hillard afterwards sang some light, airy
melodies, and the “Little Mother,” by
urgent request, read the verses composed
en route.
	The guests when departing, each in turn,
in the most elaborate language and with
hearty good will, hoped the host and
hostess might live to celebrate their golden
wedding anniversary in prosperity and
happiness. The party certainly passed off
pleasantly, and it will assuredly be a happy
memory in the lives and hearts of those
whose anniversary was thus celebrated, be-
cause of the warm fellowship and kindly
feeling manifested by all assembled.
		
		OVER THE MOUNTAIN.
	After a week spent with the dear ones at
Wallace we must needs go over to Murray
to pass a few days. The journey has to be
taken by stage, or in private conveyance,
twenty-two miles over a mountain road
through mining camps, and winding around
high mountains. At this late season the
scenery is not so beautiful as when the
woods are green, or when the frost has
tinged the leaves and shrubs with all the
bright hues possible to imagine. The rain
had been pouring for a few days and the
mud made it difficult driving. Some im-
provements were noticable, a fine three
story mining mill at Monarch, the first

[Column 3]
place of human habitation after leaving
Wallace, except the shanties for miners, far
up the mountain side, with tunnels here
and there, and from appearances one would
imagine every vein of gold or silver in the
mountains had been opened.
	The woods were fragrant of the pine per-
fume, notwithstanding the other varieties
of trees were bare, tho’ here and there the
fiery red berries of the mountain ash bright-
ened the woods, and occasionally the flash
of the sumach showed in the distance.
	On the summit of the highest mountain
we take a survey of the road behind us,
trailing around and around through the
timber, and wonder how we could have
passed the teams on the way; and we ob-
serve the new railroad, “Sixteen to One,”
which is being built to haul ore from the
great Sunset mine. This opens another
roadway among the monarchs of the pine
forests.
	When the ride is about half com-
pleted we come to Beaver Station, where
weary travelers may rest and be sure of a
good meal. The hostess had just come in
from hunting with her gun. She had shot
a pheasant, and was plucking the feathers
as we drove up. There was nothing bold or
mannish in the appearance of Mrs Horban,
though evidently she knew how to use a
gun to some advantage; and she also lives
where women have equal political privileges.
Her two little girls were at Delta in school,
two or three miles further on, where they
are taken every morning and brought home
after school hours. Delta seems to be more
of a mining village than Beaver, more
houses, stores, saloons (these abound where-
ever mines are worked) and at the school
house, as we passed through about half
past two, children were out for recess, and
one could not help wondering where they
all lived. Farther on was Myrtle, another
of the small towns in this vicinity, and
more tunnels and gulches, and by and by a
graveyard, the notice on the high gates
signifying it belonged to the “Union,” and
of course, no other “need apply.” Pritch-
ard creek had been in sight for some time
and Tiger Gulch on the opposite side
and we began to see signs of Murray,
which lies between high mountains covered
with timber and where the pines are al-
ways sighing and the waters murmuring.
	In this little vale there has been much
gold discovered and placer mining has been
carried on to the amount of many thousands
of dollars, and in the early settling here
there were lively times. It was also the
county seat of Shoshone County until about
a year ago Wallace succeeded in having
the business of the County removed there,
as it is more accessible and has increased
faster in population and influence. There
is some mining still going on in Murray,
and the Mother-Lode, a famous mine which
has made several fortunes for its former
owners, is still yielding its yellow dust and
considered valuable property. Hydraulic
works are established here, and north of
the mine is Eagle, another mining settle-
ment, somewhat dilapitated. On the south
is Littlefield and Daddyville, where there
has been mining in former days, if not so
successful now. Chess is a mine still in
operation, with “great expectations” of its
near future.
	To one only sojourning temporarily there
is a sort of restfulness in the singing of the
pines and the murmuring of many rivulets;
and to one whose thoughts come more
readily or of dreaming, there is abundance


of time, about eighteen hours a day of
candle-light. The one drawback to posi-
tive enjoyment is that it rains and one can-
not indulge in walking, or even riding
through the pines, as on other occasions
when visiting up here earlier in the season
	There are some lovely little dells, and
cottages of logs nestled down among the
woods, where women live secluded from
gossip, assuredly; women who have fol-
lowed their husbands who had come to seek
fortunes imbedded in these mountain for-
ests. And these women have political
privileges not enjoyed by some of the
dwellers in large cities.


as a pleasant remembrance of two happy
parties in Wallace.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	MRS. J. ELLEN FOSTER, Attorney at
Law, visited Salt Lake City the first week
in November.
	THE November meteors which were ex-
pected on the 14th or 15th did not material-
ize very satisfactorily, although elaborate
preparations were made by astronomers in
many observatories. A few have been re-
ported from different localities, but not
more brilliant than have been observed at
unexpected occasions. Possibly in the year
of our Lord 1900, the prediction may be
fulfilled, at least, that is the general idea of
of those scientists who investigate the
heavenly bodies and phenomena.
	IT is announced that the young Queen
Wilhelmina, of the Netherlands, has given
her word to the Kaiser of Germany that
she will wed none other than the Crown
Prince Frederic William of Germany. Wil-
helmina is a year and nine months older
than the Crown Prince, she was nineteen
years old August 31, and he will be eigh-
teen years old May 6, 1900. A report has
been current that she was engaged to Prince
Ferdinand Joachim Albrecht of Prussia.
	THE Hon. Joseph Chamberlain, Secre-
tary of State for the Colonies, in a speech
at a luncheon at Leicester, said the country
owed a debt of gratitude to Lord Salisbury
for the great improvement in Great Britain’s
position; and also remarked upon the exist-
ing relations of America and England, say-
ing: “The union, the alliance, if you please,
the understanding between these two great
nations, is indeed a guarantee of the peace
of the world.” He also made reference to
Germany in unmistakable terms, and in-
ferred there would be “a triple alliance be-
tween the Teutonic race and the two great
branches of the Anglo Saxons that would
be a potent influence in the future world.”
He spoke also of newspaper articles which
“had not spared the almost sacred person
of the Queen.”
	AMBASSADOR CHOATE, at the Thanksgiv-
ing dinner of the American Society, at the
Hotel Cecil in London, made a significant
speech on the present situation and the
keynote of which was the spreading of
American commerce, alluding to America,
Great Britain and Germany as the “three
great commercial nations of the world.” He
had asked a very brilliant woman what to
take for a basis of his remarks, and her
reply was, “Let England and America join
hands across the sea, and the peace of the
world will be assured.” In regard to the ex-
pansion of America the Ambassador said:
“I think we all agree with the declaration
of our Secretary of War, that the Pacific
cable ought to be laid by America from

[Column 2]
San Francisco to Manila. We have planted
our footsteps in the sea. How we have
progressed! First it was San Francisco,
then Hawaii, then Gauon, then Manila and
one step more and we will be the open door
to China.”
	BESIDES spending Thanksgiving with
the dear ones in Idaho, an afternoon Tea
and luncheon were given in honor of the
“Little Mother.” Wednesday, November
29, at two p. m., the elite of Wallace
assembled at the home of Mrs. Daisie D.
Allen, of Wallace, and although the rain
was simply pouring down, all were punctu-
al in coming. Knowing of the International
Council having been received by the Queen
in the quadrangle of Windsor Castle, and
entertained by Her Majesty at an elaborate
tea (almost a banquet) in St. George’s hall,
we yielded to the earnest request of the
ladies and related the incident and described
what we saw and remembered of this inter-
esting place, and personality of the Queen
of Great Britain and Empress of India.
The afternoon was a pleasant one. Mrs.
Allen as hostess did the honors gracefully,
and each guest had a card with the auto-
graph of the “Little Mother” and a quota-
tion from her book of poems, “Musings and
Memories.” “Tea,” which consisted of a
variety of delicate dishes handsomely
served, with fine china and the finest em-
broidered linen, in dainty patterns, the
tables decorated with evergreen; but the
brilliant conversation of intelligent women
surpasses luxuriant feasting, and to close
the sweet day, music and songs were added
to our enjoyment. Some of the sweetest
old songs were rendered by Mrs. Allen and
Mrs. Burke; a day long to be remembered.
	THE luncheon was given by Mrs. Mell
C. Woods, at her residence in Wallace, on
Saturday, December 2, at half past one p.
m. The rooms were artistically decorated
with carnations and chrysanthemums of
many colors, pink and white mostly, and
the beautiful evergreen coptis leaves that
grow in the mountains. The menu cards
were tied with ribbon and carna-
tions, and were unique in having every
dish in the course designated with a quota-
tion from Shakespeare, and left to the ladies
to guess, which afforded some amusement
and helped digestion, no doubt. The table
was daintily spread with elegant service,
and everything arranged in “apple pie
order”—fit for a queen; and the ladies
themselves were handsomely gowned in
rich apparel. After the fun of guessing
was over, the ladies discussed their favorite
poets, the book of fiction which had im-
pressed them most, and the greatest living
woman in America. To be sure, there
were differences of opinion on all these
questions, but they led to much thinking
and bringing out ideas, and proved that
women when gathered in parties nowadays
do not always gossip or talk of dress and
fashion. The guests were entertained in
the parlor afterwards with music and sing-
ing, Mrs. Allen, who has a particularly
fine voice, singing some favorite ballads,
and Mrs. Finch, tho’ very timid, sang
one song sweetly, after a great deal of en-
treaty. The Wallace ladies whom we
had the pleasure of meeting were very
gracious to the woman editor, but however
we try we cannot describe their dresses,
that is quite impossible; and, therefore, we
trust they will not consider the omission
ungracious, and accept this passing notice


GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The October Conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall, in this city, Thursday, October 5,
1899, commencing at 10 a. m., President
Zina D. H. Young presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing “Come let us
anew.” Prayer by President Ann C.
Woodbury. Singing, “We thank Thee,
O God, for a prophet.” Roll called, eigh-
teen presidents present. Minutes of morn-
ing conference of April last read and
accepted. Minutes of officers’ meeting in
April last read and accepted.
	President Young stated that the morning
would be occupied in hearing from the
presidents of the various Stakes, and made
some explanatory remarks in regard to
Stake conferences being held quarterly, or
semi-annually.
	President Susanna P. Booth, of Box
Elder Stake, and Lucy S. Cardon, of Cache
Stake, were in favor of conference twice a
year.
	President Zina Y. Card, of the Y. L.
M. I. A. of Alberta Stake, stated that in
that Stake they only held conference twice
a year, and that there were so many organ-
izations, that was considered best for them.
	President Emma J. Bennett, Bingham, said
they only held two conferences in a year.
	President Mary A. Hyde, Sanpete, said
they had always held quarterly conferences,
but alternated from one part of the county
to another, which made a difference, and
did not seem to be too much. She was
willing to conform to the decision.
	President M. Isabella Horne, Salt Lake
Stake, thought it advisable under some
circumstances, but Salt Lake Stake was so
much larger than any other, and if there
were but two conferences it would certainly
be necessary for each branch to have an
annual meeting, which would enable them
to make a showing of their work.
	President Cornelia Mortensen, of San
Luis Stake, said it had never been conven-
ient to hold conferences but twice a year,
but the sisters were alive to their duties.
This was the first time she had enjoyed the
privilege of attending the General Confer-
ence, and was very grateful for the oppor-
tunity to do so.
	Dr. M. C. Roberts spoke of having anoth-
er class in nursing, students to come from
other Stakes, and gave some advice in re-
gard to what was needful, and said that we
should as a people employ when sick
those of our own faith, and made other re-
marks pertinent to the subject.
	President M. Isabella Horne addressed
the sisters, urging them to awake to their
duties and responsibilities and to attend
these conferences and get spiritual strength.
If the president was not able to attend send
a representative, some one authorized to
speak for the Stake, and to take home the
teaching given for the building up of the
society.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith was glad
to hear about the nursing class, we want
several nurses in each branch society.
Spoke earnestly about paying tithing and
upon punctuality, it was an important thing
in life; also urged the sisters to be diligent
in the work for the dead, said Joseph the
Prophet was anxious upon this subject.
Spoke of our keeping our second estate, as


[Column 1]
well as our first, and be diligent in season
and out of season
	President Horne made some further re-
marks about the training of nurses, and that
it should be under the auspices of the
Relief Society. Felt very thankful it had
been such a success in this Stake. The
sick should be taken care of by experienced
sisters.
	President Mary A. Call, of Bannock
Stake, asked some questions about the
financial matters, which were answered
satisfactorily. She made some very appro-
priate remarks and urged all to faithfulness,
also to be humble.
	President Young alluded to the society
everywhere observing the 17th of March, and
was sure a blessing would follow. Referred
to the Prophet turning the key of knowl-
edge for women and the wonderful things
that had since transpired. “Remember
what blessings have been pronounced
upon the handmaids of the Lord since that
day. I feel as though I was looking upon
the faces of the angels when I look at my
sisters and know what they have passed
through and endured and borne, and the
sacrifices they have made. Let us live so
that we may know what is best for us.”
	After some instructions in reference to
tithing, which were in answer to questions
that had been asked by the sisters from a
distance, the congregation joined in singing
“Praise to the man who communed with
Jehovah.”
	The secretary, Mrs. E. B. Wells, stated
that President Jane S. Richards and Presi-
dent Sarah J. Cannon were both absent
from the conference, detained at home
through sickness in their families, and re-
quested that they be mentioned in the
closing prayer, and that all unite their faith
in behalf of the sick, that they might be
restored to health.
	Benedicton was pronounced by President
Horne.
	Afternoon session, 2 p. m. President Zina
D. H. Young presiding, opened with sing-
ing “Our God we raise to Thee.” Prayer
by President F. A. Hammond. Continued
by singing “For the strength of the hills.”
Minutes of afternoon session of the April
conference read and accepted. 
	President Mary Pitchforth, Juab Stake,
reported everything favorable of the society
except Eureka, which it was intended to
reorganize very soon. She rejoiced in the
work of the society and the Latter dispen-
sation of the fulness of times. Gave some
items from her experience and alluded
briefly to the time when Apostle Woodruff
came to England and baptized nearly all the
society of United Brethren, and she, a
young girl, offered herself for baptism. Her
family were all opposed, but she had been
thankful then and ever since that she heard
the true Gospel and had been able to en-
dure all trials and persecutions, and had
been abundantly blessed.
	President Mary John, Utah Stake, made
an excellent report of work accomplished,
and referred to the quantity of grain stored
and the good feeling manifest throughout
the county when she visited the Stake.
	President Lucy Grant, Woodruff Stake,
reported the society in good condition, had
visited all the branches during the summer.
They held officers’ meetings regularly.
Theirs being a new Stake, they had not yet
commenced to lay up grain, but intended to
this fall.
	Counselor Angeline Hinckley gave a

[Column 2]
good report of Millard Stake and of the
work the sisters were doing, trying to carry
out the counsel given by the General Board.
	Sister Priscilla Jennings spoke of her visit
abroad in her native land, and the geneal-
ogical work she had been able to do, also
some missionary work, and had met with
the Relief Society in Stratford, near Lon-
don. She had also spoken to the Relief
Society in Birmingham, and had spoken on
other occasions, and was willing to work in
the Lord’s vineyard. She alluded to the
time when the iceberg struck the City of
Rome on her return trip across the Atlantic,
and the assurance of safety she had, be-
cause of a dream in which she had con-
versed with her husband, the late Hon.
Wm. Jennings. Sister Jennings made
other interesting remarks.
	President Temperance Hinckley, Fre-
mont Stake, spoke of a visit through the
county recently made, when she had the
pleasure of having Sister L. L. Greene
Richards accompany her; the trip occupied
two weeks. Everywhere they had good
meetings and the Spirit of the Lord was
richly poured out. In some wards the
society was almost entirely composed of
young married women, in fact, all the
young married women in the Stake were
enrolled in the Relief Society.
	Counselor Mary A. White, Beaver Stake,
regretted President C. C. Shepherd was not
present, but she had visited the Stake with
her and found the society in all the branches
in good condition, the sisters striving to do
their whole duty. She also bore her testi-
mony and exhorted the sisters to teach their
children to be honest and industrious. We
should speak kindly to each other while
here in this life, and not wait until after
death, but do more good to each other now.
Virtue, she said, was better than riches, let
us be pure in our lives; and our tithing
should not be forgotten,
	Counselor Mary Bagley, Bear Lake Stake,
reported there was not a case of sickness in
their entire Stake, but there was a society
sister to attend to the sick. Spoke in the
highest terms of praise of President Julia
Lindsay and the good work she was
accomplishing, though she was 76 years of
age.
	President Jane S. Coleman, Wayne
Stake, gave a glowing account of what had
been done in that county in the interest of
silk-culture, the thousands of mulberry
trees put out last spring, and more would
be planted the coming year. They also
had several houses of their own and a
thousand bushels of wheat stored—an ex-
cellent showing throughout.
	Following this, President Zina D. H.
Young spoke most emphatically upon silk
culture, and enjoined it upon the society as a
duty that should be considered important.
Spoke of President Young’s work in this
direction, his advice to the Latter-day Saints
to make sericulture one of the chief indus-
tries of this country, and the blessings that
would follow if his counsel were obeyed.
Regretted the indifference of the people
and entreated the sisters to do their utmost
to promote the silk industry, and first of all,
to set out cuttings of the mulberry.
	Several of the sisters told what had been
done for silk in different places. President
John said three hundred pounds of cocoons
had been raised in Provo.
	President Hammond represented San
Juan Stake, in the absence of his wife. He
said he always had been interested in Relief
Society meetings, knew the sisters taught

[Column 3]
righteousness and virtue and every good
thing. They held conference at the same
time as the brethren, once a year, and it
took a month to do it, the distance was
so great. In Bluff ward they were
just about finishing a new Relief Society
hall. “I don’t know anything to limit the
good cause in which you are engaged—you
who have stood the battle and the breeze in
the building up of Zion in the waste places
of the earth. My blessing upon you and
your colaborers in righteousness every-
where. The mothers in Israel have estab-
lished through this society a grand school
for our sisters. Encourage each other to
persevere in the paths of wisdom, truth and
light, and may the Lord bless every effort
in the interest of truth.”
	Miss Bessie Edmonds favored the audience
with a beautiful song; her sweet voice was
like a peal of music from above. Professor
Evan Stephens kindly accompanied her on
the organ, to both of whom the sisters were
very grateful for the courtesy.
	President Ann C. Woodbury, St. George
Stake, realized the importance of the society
work. Since August she with other sis-
ters, had traveled over three hundred miles
and held nineteen meetings. In St. George
the silk industry had a good start, and much
had been done through united effort. She
gave some definite information from those
experienced judges who had examined the
quality of silk raised in Dixie, that was
quite encouraging. She always felt to
press forward in every good work, temporal
or spiritual. Bore a strong testimony of
the truth of the Gospel.
	President Joseph E. Taylor, of the Salt
Lake Stake, realized there was not time to
enter largely into one subject, but spoke
ardently of the silk industry, and of his
knowledge of President Brigham Young’s
efforts to establish it as a permanent industry
early in the settlement of Utah. He in-
structed the society to do all that was pos-
sible to make a success of the enterprise.
President Taylor referred incidentally to
other matters pertaining to the duties and
responsibilities of the sisters in the benevo-
lent work among the destitute, the sick and
the afflicted, and other obligations resting
upon the women of Zion, and blest them in
their noble work in the name of the Lord.
	President Zina D. H. Young made a few
closing remarks and announced the evening
meeting.
	Singing, “Lord dismiss us.” Benedic-
tion, President Hammond.
	Evening meeting at 7 o’clock, President
Zina D. H. Young presiding, commenced
with singing “Glorious things of thee are
spoken,” by the Young Ladies’ choir of
the 20th ward, Mrs. Mary F. Kelly leader.
Prayer by Bishop Nymphas Murdock.
Singing, “Should you be inclined to cen-
sure.”
	President Bathsheba W. Smith spoke
upon the grand work of the Relief Society
and the love she had for such benevolent
labors; also spoke of the divine mission of
Joseph Smith and the greatness of his work
upon the earth. Rejoiced in the work now
being done in the Temples of our Lord,
said that was the work to which she was
devoting most of her time, and entreated
the sisters not to neglect those of their rela-
tives who had passed away without a
knowledge of the Gospel. “May we be able
to understand and receive the blessings of
the celestial kingdom with Joseph the
Prophet, who was one of the greatest men,
perhaps the greatest except the Savior, and


we shall know and be satisfied if we can
only be faithful, we shall meet those we
love who have gone behind the vail.”
	Sister Zina Y. Card spoke enthusiastically
for Canada.
	President Emma J. Bennett, Bingham
Stake, Idaho, referred especially to the
spirit and gifts manifest in the sisters’
meetings.
	The choir of young girls then sang an
anthem, “Leaf by Leaf.”
	Mary A. Rattenberry, of San Francisco,
reported the society there and referred to
the excellent benevolent work of the sisters
in that great city; also spoke of the visits
of Presidents Woodruff, Cannon and Smith
and of President Richards and his wife,
and of the good counsel they had given the
society, and the promises which had been
made to them if they continued in the work.
	Sister Caroline Bowman reported Sevier
Stake.
	President Cornelia Mortensen, San Luis
Stake, gave a very extended report of the
work done in that locality, praised the sis-
ters there for their noble efforts under so
many difficulties in pioneering a new settle-
ment. Referred with great satisfaction to
the union among the sisters, and that they
refrained from speaking ill of one another.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde spoke of the
good work accomplished in this Stake of
Zion, and especially the good work done by
the nurses trained under the auspices of the
Relief Society by Dr. Margaret C. Roberts.
The society had good supplies of the com-
forts necessary in attendance upon the sick,
and the faces of these nurses in the sick
room was like the angels ministering to
those in pain. Sister Hyde alluded to
her conversations with Professors in the
East while abroad in the spring, and their
astonishment concerning what she had told
them of our Relief Society charitable work.
	President Zina D. H. Young addressed
the sisters a few minutes. She said: “We
shall overcome by the word of testimony
and the power of the anointing.” She
then spoke in the gift of tongues, interpre-
tation given by Sister Card.
	The Young Ladies’ choir sang beautiful-
ly “Who are these arrayed in white.” Con-
ference adjourned till April, 1900. Prayer
by President Lucy S. Cardon.
			E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


78				WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.				79


OBITUARY.
	RESOLUTION OF RESPECT.
On the death of Cornelia Pratt Driggs.

   WHEREAS, it has pleased the Great Creator to
take from this mortal sphere our beloved and re-
spected president of this (the Forest Dale) Relief
Society, Sister Cornelia Pratt Driggs, and
   WHEREAS, in her death we have lost a faithful
member and a true Latter-day Saint, one who was
ever ready to respond where her duty called her,
kind, charitable, and bearing all the instincts of
true womanhood; and we fully realize that in our
separation from her we have sustained an irrepar-
able loss, therefore be it
	RESOLVED, That we place a copy of these reso-
lutions upon the minutes of this society, and that
we tender our heartfelt sympathy to the husband
and family of the deceased.
						AGNES RUMEL, Sec.

		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	On the death of Sister Julia A. Tanner. 

   Sister Julia A. Tanner was born in Willough-
by, Ohio, Nov. 24, 1839, and died in Beaver City,
May 15, 1899.
   WHEREAS, Our Heavenly Father has seen fit to
call from our midst a kind friend, sister and co-
laborer, Julia A. Tanner, be it 
   RESOLVED, That we strive, as a band of workers


and fellow associates, to emulate her example;
that her death has caused a vacancy in our midst,
and her loss we deeply feel.
	RESOLVED, That we realize that God calls from
our midst our esteemed associates and friends; that
He doeth all things for the best, and we must be
resigned to His holy will.
	RESOLVED, That we cherish her teachings as a
wise counselor, a loving mother, a friend to the
poor and needy, and a faithful member in our
society.
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
placed upon our record book, one be given to the
bereaved family, and one sent to t e WOMAN'S
EXPONENT for publication. 
JANE BICKLEY, Pres.
MARY T. WHITE, Sec.
	JANE ST. CLAIR GILLIES.
	Jane St. Clair Gillies was born in Flin, Perth-
shire, Scotland, May 5, 1816, She was the daugh-
ter of Daniel and Ann St. Clair, and was married
to Robert Gillies in 1843. She joined the Church
in Scotland while quite young, and emigrated to
this country in 1856, crossing the plains in Daniel
Jones' handcart company. She settled in Session’s
Settlement, and from there moved to Salt Lake
City, then to Beaver, where she remained. She
died in Circleville, August 28, 1899, while visiting
with her daughter.
	Sister Gillies was the president of the first
Primary organized in Beaver City, March 17,
1880. She was a continual worker from then
until the beginning of her sickness.  
	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	WHEREAS, God in His infinite mercy has seen fit
to call from our midst our beloved sister and co-
worker, Sister Jane St. Clair Gillies, be it
	RESOLVED, That, as members of the Relief
Society, we emulate her example and put into
practice the many kind teachings and the advice
given to us by her.
	RESOLVED, That we strive, as a band of sisters
and workers, to follow in the footsteps marked out
for us by her example, which she ever tried to put
into practice and set forth to her many friends and
associates.
	RESOLVED, That we ever remember the patience
our sister had in her long sufferings; she was never
known to complain in all she had to pass through,
and died as she had lived, a faithful sister, a true
mother and a loving friend to all.
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication,
one be put on the Beaver Relief Society record
book and one given to the bereaved family, to
whom we extend our heartfelt sympathy.
JANE W. BICKLEY, Pres.
MARY T. WHITE, Sec.


R. S. REPORTS.
NORTH LONDON RELIEF SOCIETY.
	We sisters of this branch send greetings
to our sisters in Zion, and would like you
to know how we are progressing in this
portion of our Father’s vineyard.
	We regret that our first report should be
tinged with sorrow, as we have to announce
the death of our president, Sister Ann
Blecket, who passed away September 24,
1899.
	Our sister joined the Church in Jersey
when a young woman, and died in the full
faith of the Gospel; and it will be some time
before we cease to miss her pleasant, smil-
ing face.
	The society was reorganized July 12,
1899, by yourself and President Hindley,
(as you know) with fourteen members. The
number of meetings held, four; visits paid,
thirty-five; money received, £2 7s 6d;
disbursed, £1 10s 11d; balance on hand, £1
2s 4d.
		N. E. BRADFORD, 1st Couns.
(Signed)	ELIZA A. BISHOP, Sec.
OMAHA RELIEF SOCIETY.
	With pleasure I send you a word to let
you know about the Relief Society here.
	We have a fine time when we meet, and


lovely meetings. I do not feel that I make
the best president, but I try to do the best
I can, and ask our Father in heaven to help
me in my labors. We dearly enjoy meet-
ings when the Saints are together. We
had six Elders at our Relief Society meet-
ing Wednesday evening, November 15, and
quite a great number of the Saints.
	I know we have the true Gospel, and I
am glad I have received this knowledge
and wish every one could see it as plainly
as I do.
	I am much pleased with the dear little
paper, the EXPONENT. I read everything
in it, and then wish there were more to
read.
	May God bless our work and always be
with us, and His spirit prompt us to do
right, is my prayer at all times. I wish I
lived in Utah with the people of the Latter-
day Saints, for I love to be with any of the
Saints. We enjoy the visits of the Elders
very much.
	With much love to you, I remain,
		Your sister in the Gospel,
			ADDIE S. STONE,
				Pres. Omaha R. S.


LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The regular Semi-Monthly Meeting con-
vened in the 14th ward hall, October 14,
1899, President M. I. Horne presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing “God moves
in a mysterious way.” Prayer by Annie
T. Hyde. Singing, “Arise, O glorious
Zion. Minutes read and accepted.
	President Horne said these meetings
gave her many thoughts for reflection. We
should testify of the goodness of God, for
our Savior has said “Those who will testi-
fy of me before men, I will testify of them
before my Father.” Alluded to the sorrow
our children meet with who marry outside
our faith. We should lovingly teach our
children to avoid making such attachments.
We should supply them with proper liter-
ature, and teach them the necessity of
having family prayers.
	Sister Diana Read spoke of the blessings
she had received through the faith that had
been exercised for her by her sisters during
her sickness.
	President Pond, from Pocatello, spoke of
the privilege of working in the Temple.
Exhorted the sisters to be kind to one
another and love one another.
	The congregation sang “Now let us re-
joice in the day of salvation.”
	Sister M.A. Hardy said she had belonged
to this Church for fifty years. Her family
deserted her and she left them for the Gos-
pel’s sake. Spoke of the benefit Relief
Society work had been to her.
	A sister in the congregation spoke of the
blessings she had received from her Heaven-
ly Father every day.
	Sister Mary Morris related a circumstance
of a sister who had been completely restored
to health through the administration of the
Elders.
	Another sister bore testimony, and Sister
Mary P. Silver said the Lord is bestowing
blessings upon us continually.
	Sister Stevens said the Lord will never
forsake us.
	Sister Julia S. Woolley spoke of the
necessity of keeping the Word of Wisdom
and becoming worthy mothers of children.
	Sister Almeda Young related a prophesy
of Brother George Goddard in regard to the
Word of Wisdom, which had been fulfilled,


that Box Elder Stake Sunday School officers
and teachers had conformed to this law.
	Three other sisters bore testimonies of
the truth of the Gospel.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing, Doxology. Benediction by Counselor
Stevenson.
			J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MISS ANTHONY ON ROBERTS.
	Miss Anthony has been more or less
criticised for her remarks in opposition to
the resolution calling upon Congress to re-
fuse a seat to Brigham H. Roberts, which
was introduced at the recent Convention of
the New York State Federation of Wom-
en’s Clubs. She has been interviewed for
the daily press, and asked to define her
position more fully. She is reported as
saying:
	“When I opposed the motion presented
at the Federation in regard to Roberts, I
did so on the ground that the motion, as
worded, petitioned Congress to refuse to
admit Roberts as a member of the House of
Representatives, which, as I explained at
the time, it was useless to do. I was argu-
ing on the motion before the House. It
referred not to the removal of Robert’s after
he was seated, which is the only way Con-
gress can approach the matter, but to his
admission. I did not wish the Federation
to make itself ridiculous by solemnly taking
this action in regard to Roberts, and there-
by invoking scathing remarks from the
press of the country in reference to the in
ability of women to comprehend the sim-
plest matter of constitutional law.
	“After discussing this point, the question
of Roberts’s unfitness came up, and I said
what I believe in regard to the standard of
morality among men as a class. If it is so
uncommon for men to violate the sanctity
of the home, as some of these good women
would have us believe, why does a double
standard of morality exist for men and
women? I also hold that Roberts, whose
religion upholds him in his polygamous
life, is less a sinner than those men who
live in violation of the teachings of the
society in which they move.”
	“It has been suggested,” said the re-
porter, “that your opposition to the
Roberts resolution lies in the fact that the
women of Utah are enfranchised.”
	Miss Anthony laughed quietly and re-
plied:
	“As a matter of fact, Roberts is, person-
ally, strongly and bitterly opposed to wom-
an suffrage, and many women in Utah
voted against him for that reason.
	“I sincerely believe that one reason why
the Roberts resolutions as adopted by
the women’s clubs throughout the country,
have referred to the admission of Roberts
instead of his removal, is a faint realization
of the difficulty that would be encountered
in prefering charges of immorality against
him that would be worse than those that
could be brought to light in connection
with the very men upon whom would de-
volve the duty of denouncing Roberts.
People who live in glass houses should not
throw stones.”


INSIGNIA OF FASHIONABLE WOE. 
	Mrs. Jacob Bright, in announcing to her
friends, without the usual emblems of 
gloom, the death of her distinguished hus-


band, one of the great English reformers, 
and for many years a member of Parliament,
sets a good example for the common-sense 
women of America to follow. The pure, 
white paper, without the traditional black 
border, is headed with a laurel wreath, and 
a glorious rising sun, a prophecy of the 
higher life to come, and the following
statement:
JACOB BRIGHT
Entered the Land of Light
Nov. 7, 1899, Aged 78 years.
		There should not be a shadow of gloom 
		In aught that reminds us of thee.
	The recipient of a black-bordered letter is 
always oppressed with a transient sentiment 
of pain. Do we not all have sorrows and 
disappointments of our own, without being 
burdened with the troubles of others?
	I know an American lady who was so 
desirous of doing the right thing, on the 
death of her husband, that she made a 
journey to our metropolis to inquire of an 
English harness-maker the style for the 
equipment of her carriage, harness, coach-
man, footman, horses and dog, as her hus-
band was English, and she wished every-
thing done according to the custom of his 
native land. As the dog was expected to 
trot demurely under the coach, his collar 
was wound with black ribbon, with a large 
bow on the back.
	The wife, draped in the deepest black,
wore a long, double crape veil, that touched 
the ground, which style required should be 
kept over the face during the first year of
widowhood—a most uncomfortable and un-
healthy fashion.
	These mournful figures always call to 
mind the lines in Wesley’s hymn:
		Hark, from the tombs a doleful cry!
			Sinners, come view the ground, 
		Where you must shortly lie. 
	The Brights belong to a religious sect 
called Friends, (or Quakers) who never 
change their dress for these habiliments of
woe.
	ELIZABETH CADY STANTON.


[Column 1]
90% OF AMERICAN WOMEN
wash dishes three times each day. If you are one
of these, wear a pair of “Goodyear” Rubber
Gloves and always have soft, white hands. Sent
Sent by mail postpaid, on receipt of $1.59 Agents
wanted. Address, M. O. Dept.,
M. F. Reese Supply Co., Setauket, N. Y.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail.
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

[Column 2]
[shield logo]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD’S PICTORIAL LINE.

[to the right of the logo]
THE PEOPLE’S FAVORITE.

			Leave Salt Lake City
No. 6	The “Fast Mall” for Chicago, St. Paul, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and
		Park City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7 00 a.m.
No. 2	The “Overland Limited” for Chicago, St.
		Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
		Denver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	11 45 a.m.
No. 4	The “Atlantic Express” for Chicago, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver. .	6 40 p.m.
			Arrive Salt Lake City.
No. 5	The “Fast Mail” from Chicago, St. Louis,
		Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and Park
		City. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3 00 p.m.
No. 1	The “Overland Limited” from Chicago, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver. .	3 00 p.m.
No 3	The “Pacific Express” from Chicago, St.
		Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
		Denver. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3 30 p.m.
CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 Main St.		Telephone 665.
					H. M. CLAY, General Agent.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

OREGON SHORT LINE RAILROAD.

Time Table in Effect October 15, 1899.

	Trains will arrive and depart at Salt Lake City daily as fol-
lows:
				ARRIVE:
From Ogden, Chicago, Omaha, St. Louis and Denver,	3:30 a.m
From Ogden, Portland, Butte, Helena and San Fran-
	cisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	9:05 a.m.
*From Milford, Sanpete, Provo and Intermediate
	points. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	9:35 a.m.
From Ogden, Chicago, St. Louis, Omaha, Denver and
	San Francisco. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3:00 p.m.
** From Garfield Beach, Tooele and Terminus. . . . . .	4:00 p.m.
From Tintic and Mercur. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	6:30 p.m.
Cache Valley Express, from Preston, Logan, Ogden
	and intermediate points . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	6:40 p.m.
From Ogden, Butte, San Francisco and intermediate
	points . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7:50 p.m.
				DEPART.
For Ogden, Omaha, Chicago, Denver, St. Louis and
	Cache Valley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7:00 a.m.
For Tintic and Mercur . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7:55 a.m.
**For Garfield Beach, Tooele and Terminus. . . . . . . .	7:45 a.m.
For Ogden, Butte, Helena, Portland and intermediate
	points . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	9:45 a.m.
For Ogden, Omaha, Chicago, Denver, St. Louis and
	San Francisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	11:45 a.m.
*For Provo, Sanpete, Milford and intermediate points	5:30 p.m.
For Ogden, Denver, Omaha, St. Louis and Chicago. . .	6:40 p.m.
For Ogden, Butte, San Francisco and intermediate
	points. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	8:45 p.m.
*Trains south of Juab do not run Sundays.
**Daily except Sunday.
City Ticket Office Under Masonic Hall, 2nd South St.
S.W. ECCLES,				D. E. BURLEY,
Gen. Traffic Manager.			Gen. P. nd T. A.
			W. H. T, BANCROF
		Vice-President and Gen’l Manager.


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 28.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15 to 24, 1899.		No. 14.


CONTENTS.
Christmas Fancies. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . The Editor	81.
Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting . . J. S. Woolley	82.
Mrs. Barratt’s Party . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . E. B. W.	83.
A Pleasant Birthday Gathering. . . . . . . E. B. W.	83.
Boston Tea Party. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . E. B. W.	83.
Heroines of the Revolution . . . Helen M. Fisher	86.
From A Mother’s Standpoint . . . . . . . . . Rachel	86.
Thanksgiving Day. . . . . . . . . . Delila E. Dudley	87.
U. W. P. C. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Aimee C. Schiller	88.
EDITORIAL—In Memoriam—Franklin D. Rich-
	ards. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	84.
	Emily Dow Partridge Young . . . . . . . . . . .	85.
	Editorial Notes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	83.
POETRY—Queen Victoria . . . . Lydia D. Alder	81.


QUEEN VICTORIA

	Receiving the Quinquennial Congress.
A hush falls on the assembled throng,
	As expectant on the Queen we wait;
Some of all nations there among,
	Standing close by storied Windsor’s gate.
“Enter,” now the welcome word is said—
	Through we pass, Her Majesty to see,
Pressing on with rapid, eager tread,
	Yet with woman’s grand nobility.

“God save the Queen,” wafts low on the air,
	Sung by her guests, she bows low to meet;
And God bless the one, with face so fair,
	The ocean’s broad path we’ve crossed to greet.
A woman so true, although a queen,
	Who feels for woman the wide world o’er;
Bearing a noble, yet gentle mien—
	A Queen we honor and bow before.

’Twined the mother-love, with high estate,
	That holy love, so soft, strong and true;
And a love that comes to those who wait,
	The Valley of Death to enter through.
So England’s Queen, great among the great,
	In history is famed forever more;
Chosen by God and the hand of Fate,
	Ordained in the world that was before,

As a river, blessings flow to thee,
	High Potentate of earthly power;
Yet nobler made by sweet simplicity,
	And greater still from this very hour.
America! send thy greetings o’er 
	For honored thy daughters are today;
So extend thy strength from shore to shore,
	Unto her, who half the world doth sway.

England! o’er thy bounds scarce sets the sun,
	A nation revered by all the world;
Renowned since the reign of man begun,
	Where’er a proud nation’s flag’s unfurled.
From thee we sail to each distant land,
	To speak of thy grandeur, thy glory, 
And o’er the world by gentle winds fann’d,
	Of the Queen will be told this story.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.
London, July 7, 1899.


[Column 1]
CHRISTMAS FANCIES.
Peace and good will to all mankind.
	Blessed Christmas if indeed it would
bring peace and good-will to all mankind.
Nowadays the Christmas time seems more
of a festivity and giving and receiving
gifts, than a time to exercise good will and
good feeling toward one’s neighbors; to
forgive wrongs and make peace with those
with whom we have been at variance, if
there are any such, would indeed make the
day a happy one. Cheerfulness is better
than hilarity, and simplicity even in giv-
ing is in much better taste than making
elaborate presents, or parading one’s

[Column 2]
generosity, as really seems to have come
to be the custom in this age. We deal
largely in extremes, even in giving, and
we do not always deal wisely with our-
selves or our friends. “Kind hearts are
more than coronets,” and the scripture
tells us, “a word fitly spoken is like apples
of gold in pictures of silver.” Therefore,
though we have not wealth to lavish on
our loved ones, we can bestow kindness
even in words.
	As a people we are in the enjoyment of
many blessings, and we have great reason
to rejoice that prosperity abounds in these
vales of the mountains and that we have
peace here, though we read and hear of
wars in other lands; and we should not for-
get the Lord in the days of our prosperity.
	Feasting and enjoying the good things
of life does not make up the sum of happi-
ness, not even at Christmas time; elabor-
ate preparations are very wearisome, and
the mother is often too much exhausted to
share in the children’s enjoyment of games
or sports, or perhaps to answer their ques-
tions about the why’s and wherefore’s of
Christmas. The injunction placed upon
us all to take care of our bodies, is greatly
disregarded at holiday times, or overdone,
we work so hard for the pleasure of a few
hours, we cook so much and some of us
eat so much that we are not happy and we
show it in our faces, therefore we are not
beautiful, though we may have bestowed
abundant pains upon our decorations to
make the home beautiful. If the mother
is care-worn or exhausted, if she cannot
wear a smiling face, then the day is not a
success. It is not necessary to have all
the luxuries the market affords, not even
on Christmas, to bring happiness; light
hearts, cheerful faces and kind words are
a far better relish at the family dinner
than the most savory dish lacking these
graces. Yet one does not like to be always
sermonizing. There are many pretty 
fancies about Christmas that have come
down to us, that set it off, so to speak, as
a day apart from all others, in the minds
of the little folks at least; and perhaps
none of us are altogether without a taste
for the mystic, and the legends and folk-
lore of ye olden time and of other lands
and other people, their habits, customs
and beliefs, have a more intense interest
because of their remoteness and the mys-
tery in which they are necessarily en-
shrouded.
	From the early Christians who sang the
midnight mass on the eve of the nativity,
in commemoration of the birth of Christ,
we get the name Christmas (Christ’s mass.)
Formerly immense logs were brought from
the forests and, often with much ceremony,
burned at Christmas time with great re-
joicing. Although we do not hear of the
yule log these days, yet a great log is
chosen even now where wood is used for
fuel; we who use coal do not have the
same feeling about the Xmas log. The
pictures in the fire on Christmas were con-
sidered significant, and the old wrongs
were thought to die out in the blaze.
Numberless superstitions that cluster

[Column 3]
around Christmas observances in the olden
time, are interwoven with Pagan and some
of them even early Christian ceremonies.
	It is said that “in Sweden on Christmas
Eve the shoes of the family are placed in
a row side by side, that harmony may pre-
vail during the year to come.” 
	“Throughout Northern Germany the
tables are spread and the lights left burn-
ing, that the Virgin Mary and the angel 
who brings the presents may find refresh-
ments.”
	This to us seems very absurd, but if in
our day the children thought more of the
mother or father, sister, brother or friend,
who gives on these occasions, and paid
them the reverence which is their due, the
spirit of jealousy and contention would
cease, and greater reverence might be ac-
corded to those who are really the good
angels in disguise.
	Even to this day it is a belief in Corn-
wall, Devonshire, and in English villages,
that the bees hum and that the cattle kneel
on Christmas Eve in adoration of the
Holy Child; and it is said the powers of
darkness are unable to work evil on man-
kind. Shakespeare, who is more often
quoted than any other poet, says:

“Some say that ever ’gainst that season comes
Wherein our Savior’s birth is celebrated,
The bird of dawning singeth all night long;
And then, they say, no spirit can walk abroad;
No fairy takes, nor witch hath power to charm,
So hallowed and so precious is the time.”

	The customs connected with the chil-
dren’s idea of Christmas have their origin
in Germany and the Netherlands. Our
little ones imitate the child of Holland
when they hang their stockings in front of 
the fireplace, so Santa Claus will find
them when he descends the chimney. The
beautiful Christmas tree, its branches
laden and lights sparkling, a sine que non,
with children nowadays is distinctly a
heathen idea perpetuated by the German
and Scandinavian races. The floral deco-
rations, which add so much to the beauty
of the festival, were inaugurated in the
days of the Saturnalia when the Roman
temples and houses were decorated with
flowers and garlands in honor of the god
of light. In the days of early antiquity
the British Druids reverenced the mistletoe
as something holy, when they found it
growing on an oak, the favorite tree of 
their divinity, Tutanes, the sun. When
they celebrated the winter solstice the
ancient Britons, accompanied by Druids,
went with music and singing to gather the
sacred mistletoe, and it was believed to
have a healing power. Clothed in white
the chief priest cut the tree with a golden
knife and the mistletoe (a sort of parasite)
would fall into the robe of the priest stand-
ing below, who distributed it among the
people, who carried it home and hung it
under the roof as a protection and shelter
to the sylvan deities during the winter
frost and cold. The Druids regarded the
pearly berries of the plant as an emblem
of purity and used it in the marriage rite.
The mistletoe custom still observed of
snatching a kiss under the mistletoe is


[Column 1]
associated with the mystic traditions, and
is a relic of the days of Druidism. The old
song we used to sing says:
	“The mistleto hung in the castle hall,
	The holy branch shone on the old oak wall,
	And all the tenants were blithe and gay,
	Keeping their Christmas holiday.”
	Holly, evergreen and laurel were used
to decorate the churches in early days in
England, as they are now. Ivy, though
sometimes used, is considered more appro-
priate for solemn occasions. Late in the
17th century the Ecclesiastical Canon of
England issued a decree that all Christ-
mas decorations must be down by the last
of January, as it was thought to be un-
lucky to keep them up longer in private
houses.
	At the time when the Druids were gath-
ering their mistletoe and the Romans were
decorating their temples in honor of Sat-
urn, the Scandinavians kindled huge bon-
fires in honor of the sun god, Thor.
	The good cheer of old England at
Christmas time is proverbial, and little
wonder when one reads of the feasting.
The peacock with his gorgeous train was
a royal dish brought to the festal board by
some fair lady, and over him the knights
errant swore to do or die for their “ladyes
fayre.” From this custom comes Justice
Swallow’s oath, “By cock and pie.” In
Charles II. time turkeys and capons with
plum pudding became the regular dish,
and the mince pie still perpetuated, was a
special requisite at a Xmas dinner more
than a hundred years ago.
	The Newcastle Chronicle of 1770 gives the
contents of the famous “Christmas pye”
of the olden time. * * * Its ingredients
were 2 bushels of flour, 20 pounds of
butter, 4 geese, 2 turkeys, 2 rabbits, 4 wild
ducks, 2 woodcocks, 6 snipe, 4 partridges,
2 neats tongues, 2 curlews, 4 blackbirds
and six pigeons, with eggs, sugar, raisins,
lemons, oranges and various kinds of
spicery. “it weighed twelve stone.” One
would wonder where it could be baked;
and yet when one knows what great fire-
places and ovens they had in those old
halls and castles, one might imagine that
even such a pie could be put in and baked.
In the lower part of the Nottingham
Castle, which, by the by, is about all that
is left of it, we saw the largest ovens, just
like a great arch, one on each side of a
huge fireplace. Of course they are not
in very good preservation, but are still
standing; and at Kenilworth Castle we
counted the remains of nine or ten im-
mense fireplaces, in one area of the ruin,
doubtless there had been ovens there
to correspond with the size of the fire-
places. When one recalls the number of
the inmates of these great buildings and
the retainers, and that there were no bake
shops adjacent to buy food from, and
everything must be made on the premises,
one can fancy great quantities of food
cooked somewhere.
	The writer when standing in St. George’s
Hall, Windsor Castle, thought of the great
banquets that had been given there to the
English warriors, and also when the brave
heroes and men were initiated into the
order of the Knights of the Garter; what
eating, drinking and carousing must have
taken place, and what wonderful prepara-
tions in the way of cooking must have pre-
ceded these great occasions. At the pres-
ent time one can buy almost everything
ready cooked, and the facilities for prepar-

[Column 2]
ing food are altogether easier than they
were even fifty years ago. 
	Christmas in England this year cannot
be a very merrie one, judging from the
dispatches of the war in South Africa, and
although Queen Victoria is very heroic,
yet so many of Her Majesty’s officers have
been slain or wounded, that conditions
must necessarily have a depressing effect
upon the whole country. The Queen will
have the sympathy of all true Americans
in this time of anxiety, for she is justly
beloved by the people of the United States.
It is to be hoped that matters may be so
adjusted as to bring this cruel war to a
close; and now that the court of arbitration
is so near being established the outlook for
a final compact seems more likely to be
consummated.
	How ardently one wishes for the day
when war shall cease, and the angelic in-
junction, “On earth peace, good will to-
ward men,” find a hearty response from
all nations. The “Yule peace,” old as the
Runic stones of antiquity, a time of good
fellowship and brotherly love, quarrels all
healed, feuds forgotten, and the world ani-
mated by the universal spirit of love. Is
this too much to hope for? At any rate,
each one who strives to love his neighbor
as himself is doing his utmost to fufill the
law.  Our blessed Savior said:
	Love your enemies, do good to them which hate
you.
	Bless them that curse you, and pray for them
that despitefully use you and persecute you.
	How few there are who heed these
words in the least, yet desire to keep the
commandments and excel in many ways.
Jesus in His “Sermon on the Mount” said:
“Blessed are the peacemakers, for they
shall be called the children of God.” And
what more fitting time to strive to culti-
vate this in one’s heart than the day on
which we celebrate the nativity of the
Savior of the world?
	Many mothers and housewives are like
Martha, whom the Savior rebuked, they
work and worry and fret, over-burdened,
over-solicitous, “troubled about many
things.” It would be so much better if
there were less cooking, less variety, and
if mothers were not so weary and could
get a little more real enjoyment at Christ-
mas time.
	“At Christmas play and make good cheer,
	For Christmas comes but once a year.”
						THE EDITOR


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Semi Monthly Meeting convened
November 11, 1899, in the 14th ward hall,
President M. I. Horne presiding.
	Opened with singing, “Our God we raise
to Thee.” Prayer by Sister Maria W. Wil-
cox. Singing. “Welcome best of all good
meetings. Minutes of previous meeting
read and approved.
	President Horne said she was fed by
hearing the sisters speak, and she wished
to hear all bear testimony. President Snow
said he loved to hear the people speak of
the Spirit, the eloquence of speech was not
what we were seeking.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young said she loved
to look at her sisters. Knew all could find
plenty to do at home, but knew it was
proper for us to meet together. We should
learn to overcome, which we can by the
word of our testimony and the power of the

[Column 2]
anointing. Felt thankful to associate with
God’s anointed. Any one who has a testi-
mony of this Gospel never ought to think
they have any sorrows.
	Counselor Elizabeth Stevenson said she
had been to visit Lehi with Sister Zina D.
H. Young, and they had a time of rejoicing
together. Said that Sister Zina had spoken
in each meeting. They visited the sugar
factory. She felt that God had blessed us
as a people and provided us with every
comfort.
	Sister Smith said she knew we needed
our spirits fed and were all benefited by
meeting together.
	Sister Hunter, president of Tooele Stake
Relief Society, being present, spoke. Her
desire was to help build up the kingdom.
Spoke of the necessity of teaching our girls
and boys the principles of the Gospel. Felt
that our trials were of great benefit to us,
and exhorted all to pray to the Lord and
thank Him for our comforts and blessings.
Said in her Stake the society was doing
good and that the Lord blessed them.
	Sister Tomlinson spoke of the blessings
she had received in the Temple. Believed
the Lord would hear the mother’s prayer
when she asked His aid in raising her chil-
dren.
	Sister Amelia Wardrop said she had al-
ways believed in the law of tithing and the
word of wisdom. She had a testimony of
the truth of the Gospel to bear.
	Sister Stevenson said she had not missed
five meetings in thirteen years.
	A sister in the congregation said she had
been blessed many times by coming to these
meetings. She always found it easier to do
her work at home if she attended to her
meetings. Another sister said she knew
that in attending to her meetings she al-
ways gained time in performing her house-
hold duties. She knew if we first sought
the “kingdom of God and its righteous-
ness,” everything will be added to us.
	Sister Luie Stevenson bore a testimony
of the truth.
	Sister Phelps spoke in tongues, and Sis-
ter Young interpreted it.
	Sister Bateman and Sister Witzel bore
faithful testimonies, also two other sisters.
	Dr. Margaret C. Roberts said she had
offered her services to the society to talk to
these young ladies and young mothers on
their duties in life. She said she was very
anxious to do all the good she could.
	President Horne said she thought there
was a kind of awakening among the Latter-
day Saints; that our numbers were increas-
ing. She wished the Relief Society presi-
dents to explain in their societies concern-
ing the class to be organized by Dr. Roberts.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde said it was the
intention to meet the coming Thursday, in
the 14th ward hall, and make costumes for
the nurses’ corps, that they may be dressed
in uniform.
	Singing, “The God we adore.” Bene-
diction by Counselor Webb.
J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.


HOLIDAY EXCURSIONS
Via ORECON SHORT LINE,
Only one fare for the round-trip. Tickets
on sale Dec. 23rd, 24th, 25th, 31st and
Jan. 1st, good returning until Jan. 3rd.
Best train service. Five trains each way
between Salt Lake and Ogden.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MRS. BARRATT’S PARTY.
	A very pleasant gathering of notable
people of this city was given by Mrs. M.
M. Barratt at her handsome cottage, corner
of North and West Temple, Wednesday,
December 20. The guests were President
Lorenzo Snow and wife, President George
Q. Cannon find wife, President Joseph F.
Smith and wife, President Brigham Young
and wife; Apostles F. M. Lyman and wife,
John Henry Smith and wife, Heber J.
Grant, wife and mother. Anthon H. Lund
and Mathias F. Cowley; President Angus
M. Cannon and wife, Bishop W. B. Preston
and wife and Bishop John R. Winder and
wife, Mrs. B .W. Smith, Mrs. E. B. Wells,
Mrs. M. G. Wells, and some others.
	About five o’clock the guests were seated
at tables in the elegant dining room to par-
take of a sumptuous banquet, President
Snow pronounced the blessing. At each
plate was a souvenir bouquet, and the com-
pany was in genial humor, judging from
the lively flow of conversation.
	During the evening attention was called
to the beautiful and rare collection of
very fine pictures, most of them brought
from her home in England. Mr. Sam Bar-
ratt gave us choice musical selections on
the piano, and Mrs. E. B. Wells, at the re-
quest of President Joseph F. Smith and
others, gave an account of the reception
given at Windsor Castle by Queen Victoria
to the International Council and Congress
in London. July 7, on which occasion thir-
teen women from Utah were present.
	The guests enjoyed the visit with Mrs.
Barratt, who is a most gracious and hos-
pitable hostess, and her son, Mr. Samuel
Barratt, made every one feel at home by his
courteous attentions and evident desire to
please. Mrs. Barratt was assisted in re-
ceiving by her cousin, Mrs. Joseph Watson.
	The gathering was in all respects a most
enjoyable one, and to those whose minds
are so closely occupied with the daily
routine of business affairs, such social en-
joyment is a welcome pastime.
E. B. W.


[Column 1]
A PLEASANT BIRTHDAY GATHERING.
	On the 16th of this month (December)
Sister Esther M. Bunnell attained the ad-
vanced age of eighty-five years. Her birth-
day was celebrated at the rooms of her
daughter, Dr. Romania B. Pratt, in the
Constitution building, in this city.
	The hostess’ rooms presented a gala-day
appearance, and she gave a fine dinner on
the occasion of her mother’s anniversary.
The tables were arranged in a “T” form
and the venerable mother in Israel occupied
the seat of honor, looking as fresh and fair
as most women at fifty. On her right
hand, her daughter, the successful wom-
an physician, the first of the women of Utah
to graduate in the medical profession, and
near by, her other daughter, Mrs. Jose-
phine Hardy.
	Among those present were Hon. C. W.
Penrose, editor of the Deseret Evening
News; Mrs. E. B. Wells, editor of the
Woman’s Exponent; Parley P., Louis,
Mark and Irwin Pratt, sons of Dr. Pratt,
and their wives and children, and Mrs.
Hardy’s daughters, Mr. and Mrs. Frederic
Klienschmidt and Mr. and Mrs. Louis
Pratt.
	Fifteen sat down to dinner at 6 p. m.
The table was profusely decorated with
beautiful flowers—carnations, roses and

[Column 2]
chrysanthemums, with fresh green ferns
and smilax. Elder Penrose pronounced the
blessing. The dinner was very like a
Christmas feast; an elegant birthday cake
was one of the many delicacies.
	Many good wishes and congratulations
were extended to the dear mother and
grandmother in whose honor the company
had assembled, and many compliments upon
her good looks, her personal appearance and
the remarkable preservation of her health
and faculties. She is certainly a wonder-
fully well-preserved woman, and has a
sweet spirit, which is manifest to all who
meet her from time to time.
	Sister Bunnell was born in Guilford Co.,
North Carolina, near Raleigh, Dec. 16,
1814; her maiden name was Mendenhall.
Her family were Quakers, and in the time
of the Revolutionary war, the British
troops quartered in that locality were very
troublesome. One of their Generals took
possession of her great grandfather’s, (James
Mendenhall) grist mill and farm, and
turned his company of cavalry, horses and
men into the fields of grain and other crops,
destroying everything the good old Quaker
farmer had on his premises.
	Miss Esther Mendenhall moved with her
parents to Indiana about 1830, and there
became acquainted with Isaac Bunnell,
whom she married when seventeen years of
age. She has been the mother of six chil-
dren. Two died when young and four are
still living—Romania, the eldest, and Jose-
phine, the other daughter, with their families,
reside here; Luther and Isaac in other
states. Besides her four children, Sister
Bunnell has thirteen grandchildren and
thirteen great grandchildren.
	Brother and Sister Bunnell joined the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
and went from Indiana to Nauvoo and
Winter Quarters, but afterwards returned
to Washington, Ohio, in Warren Co., and
purchased a farm, and subsequently to
Indiana, from which place Sister Bunnell
with her family emigrated to Utah in 1855,
in an independent company of Saints in
charge of John Hindley as captain. Sister
Bunnell was baptized about 1841 or ’42, by
Elder Amasa M. Lyman, and having a great
desire to see the Prophet Joseph Smith
paid a visit to Nauvoo, her husband’s niece,
Miss Monimia Bunnell accompanying her
as a companion on the journey.
	When afterwards she went up to Nauvoo
it was about the time of the exodus, and
with the Saints they journeyed to Winter
Quarters, on the Missouri river. Like many
others of the Saints she has seen many
changes and reverses of fortune; but her
faith in the Gospel has remained firm and.
steadfast throughout, and in the evening of
her life she has no regrets, for the days
glide smoothly by among her loved ones,
who estee m her presence a blessing and to
be near her a precious privilege.
						E. B. W.


BOSTON TEA PARTY.
	The State Society of Utah Daughters of
the Revolution, celebrated the 126th anni-
versary of the Boston Tea Party, Saturday,
December 16th, in this city, at the residence
of Mrs. W. B. Dougall. The parlors were
decorated with the stars and stripes, carna-
tions and the green coptis leaves were pret-
tily arranged in vases here and there about
the rooms. Several invited guests were
present besides the members. The exer-


cises were opened with prayer by Mrs. Zina
D. H. Young. Original sentiments and
reminiscences of the first Boston Tea Party
were given by several of the ladies, one
being original verses by the first Vice-
Regent, Mrs. Susa Young Gates, of Provo,
and the Regent, Mrs. Wells, read a descrip-
tive poem of the destruction of the tea on
the night of December 16, 1773. Copies of
the State Constitution were distribu-
ted.
	The Regent presented the guests with a
bow-knot of red white and blue ribbon,
with the flag, as a souvenir of the day.
Dainty refreshments were served with cho-
colate, minus tea, and social conversation
whiled away a pleasant hour, with many
patriotic expressions of integrity to our
free Republic and honor to the flag. Mrs.
Phebe Y. Beatie enlivened the party with
musical selections on the piano. Mrs. B.
W. Smith pronounced the benedic-
tion.
	Such anniversary gatherings keep in mem-
ory the struggles of our revolutionary
ancestors for the independence and liberty
bequeathed to their posterity.
E. B. W.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	R. K. THOMAS has a fine display of dry
goods, artistically arranged for Christmas
showing. The genial, good-natured mer-
chant himself is always at his post, and has
a pleasant word for all who enter to look at
his large and substantial supply of winter
goods and ready made clothing.
	C. R. SAVAGE has a fine assortment of
everything in the way of Christmas goods,
and also Santa Claus trees and photography.
One can purchase magazines there, too, for
he keeps a sort of news stand and has been
established so many years in business along
the lines mentioned, that he scarcely needs
advertising. C. R. Savage’s art and picture
gallery is known from the Pacific to the
Atlantic in all the large cities.
	MARGETTS bookstore though not so old
is well equipped with books, stationery and
large and small children’s sleds, towboggins
and Christmas trees, everything to please
the little folks, and suitable gifts in great
variety, magnificent dolls and a great vari-
ety of such articles as stationers keep are
always obtainable at Margetts.
	THE elegant new book store of Geo. Q.
Cannon & Sons, on Main Street, has a
fine display for the holidays[-] in rare pictures,
books, dolls and gorgeous toys; everything
to make glad the heart and please the fancy,
and suitable gifts and souvenirs for Christ-
mas greetings, gatherings and festivities;
all kinds of stationery and everything in
that line. This is also a printing and
publishing house and they keep on hand all
Latter-day Saint Church works.
	THE George Washington Memorial Asso-
ciation of Utah, held services in memory of
the one hundredth anniversiry of the death
of George Washington, First President of
the United States and Father of his Country,
in the Salt Lake Theatre, on Sunday eve-
ning, December 17. The house was
crowded. An interesting address by Mrs.
C. E. Allen and an eloquent speech by the
Rev. Clarence Brown and music by the
Orpheus and Chaminade Clubs, with solo
by George D. Pyper, were notable features
of the evening.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

Woman's Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah,
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months.
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15 & 24, 1899.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.
PRESIDENT FRANKLIN D. RICHARDS.
	Hon. Franklin D. Richards, president of
the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, and
Historian of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, departed this life just
after midnight, Saturday, December 9,
1899. After a lingering illness of some
weeks, he succumbed to the inevitable, and
finally fell into a peaceful slumber and in
reality never tasted death.
	Not only does his family mourn for him,
but all Israel mourns sincerely the loss of
this great leader, one of the veterans of the
Church, who has “borne the heat and burden
of the day” lo, these many years, who has
labored unceasingly and unfalteringly for
Zion. But he has entered into light and
has, no doubt, met with his co-workers in
the Quorum of the Apostles, who had pre-
ceded him, and is with the martyred Prophet
and Patriarch, Joseph and Hyrum Smith.
The Saints do not mourn for him, but only
for the loss to those here, who miss his
ministrations and labors in the Church. We
know his life, his labors, his integrity to
the truth, entitle him to all the blessings
and privileges of the celestial world—he
has passed from death into life; therefore,
there is no need to mourn except for his
presence here, and, no doubt, he was weary
with his multifarious labors and his many
years of faithful service.
	President Richards possessed a noble,
tender, affectionate and sympathetic nature
and a kindly disposition. He was refined
and sensitive in a marked degree, affable
and courteous in manner, and singularly
gifted in conversation. He had a fund of
information on a great diversity of subjects,
and a wonderful flow of language. He
was an eloquent public speaker, always de-
lighting his audience, and was greatly gifted
in calling upon the Lord in prayer.
	His labors have been so diversified, he
has filled so many important places and
accomplished so much real work as a mis-
sionary, a judge, a legislator, a presiding
officer and leader in many capacities, that it
would be impossible in our little paper to
do even scant justice to his life-work; but
as a friend and advocate of the woman’s
cause, equality of rights and woman’s pub-
lic, work in the Church, the women of Zion
had no more staunch supporter. The Relief
Society depended in a great measure upon
President Richards for advice and counsel.
He always attended their conferences when

[Column 2]
it was possible for him to do so, and his in-
structions were ever timely and inspira-
tional.
	But the faithful servants and handmaidens
of God who helped lay the foundation of
the Church here upon the earth in this dis-
pensation, one after another are passing
away, gathering home:
“They are gathering homeward from every land
	One by one,
As their weary feet touch the shining sand,
	One by one.
Their brows are enclosed in a golden crown,
Their travel-stained garments are all laid down,
And clothed in white garments they rest on the mead,
Where the Lamb of God doth His chosen lead
	One by one.
We, too, shall come to the river’s side
	One by one,
We are nearer its waters each eventide
	One by one.
We can hear the noise and dash of the stream,
Now and again thro’ our life’s deep dream;
Sometimes the floods all the banks overflow;
Sometimes in ripples and small waves go,
	One by one.
Jesus, Redeemer, we look unto Thee,
	One by one
We lift up our voices triumphantly,
	One by one.
The waves of the river are dark and cold,
We know not the place where our feet may hold;
Thou, who didst pass through in deep midnight,
Strengthen us, send us the staff and light
	One by one."
	Franklin Dewey Richards, like many of
the leading men and women of the
Church, comes of the New Eng-
land Puritan stoc[-]; he was born in
Richmond, Berkshire Co, Massachusetts,
April 2, 1821. His parents were Phinheas
Richards and Wealthy Dewey Richards.
They were Congregationalists, and their
children were trained up in piety, according
to the Puritan principles and customs of
that day; trained in honesty, industry
sobriety, virtue, integrity and uprightness,
and to strictly observe the Sabbath day.
	As a boy Brother Richards was a diligent
student, and attended Sunday School regu-
larly and was early impressed with religious
views, but differed in his scriptural ideas
from those of most people with whom he
was associated, and, therefore, declined a
special offer made to him to study for the
ministry in a leading New England college.
The Lord had something better for him, as
his after life has proven. Elders Brigham
and Joseph Young carried the Gospel to his
native town in the summer of 1836, and
left the Book of Mormon in the Richards
family.
	Elder Franklin D. Richards became
acquainted with the family of Isaac Snyder
while preaching the Gospel as a mission-
ary in Northern Indiana, and subsequently,
Dec. 18, 1842, married Miss Jane Snyder,
the youngest daughter of Brother and Sister
Snyder, at Nauvoo, Illinois, whither the
family had previously gathered.
	Elder Richards left Nauvoo in 1843 with
Brigham Young, president of the Twelve
Apostles, to preach the Gospel in the Atlan-
tic States, expecting, too, to sail for Europe;
but before sailing they heard of the dread-
ful tragedy, the martyrdom of the Prophet
and Patriarch, and returned to Nauvoo.
	Elder Richards traveled in 1845 among
the Saints in Michigan, and gathered dona-
tions for the Nauvoo Temple. When the
exodus came he committed his family to
the Great Creator’s care, after fitting them
out with a team and wagon, and the few
necessaries he could supply, and again
started on a mission to England. Elder F.
D. Richards and his brother, Samuel W.,

[Column 3]
accompanied Apostle Parley P. Pratt upon
this mission. Previous to sailing from New
York, Sep. 22, 1846, word reached Elder
Richards that his wife had borne a son, and
that the babe had only lived one hour.
They reached Liverpool October 14, and
there Elder Richards filled several very re-
sponsible positions in the British mission,
lab[-]ring faithfully among the people and in
the office at Liverpool.
	In February, 1848, he was appointed to
take charge of a large company of Saints
who were coming to the Rocky mountains.
Before reaching home he heard of the death
of his little daughter, Wealthy, who had
been born in Nauvoo. This little one left
his wife lonely and heart-broken. His
brother, Joseph William, a member of the
Mormon Battalion, had also died during his
absence upon this mission.
	Elder Richards and family reached Salt
Lake valley October 19, 1848, enduring
many hardships on the journey. Sister
Richards was very sick the entire way,
much of the time it seemed as though she
could not live to reach her destination.
	On the 12th of February, 1849, Elder
Richards was ordained an Apostle in the
Quorum of the Twelve. In October of the
same year he was called to go on another
mission to England with Apostles John
Taylor, who was going to France, and
Lorenzo and Erastus Snow, to Scandinavia.
During his mission in Great Britain at this
time he filled the office of president (while
Orson Pratt went to America on business)
and edited the Millennial Star and began
the establishment of the Perpetual Emigra-
tion Fund.
	In 1851, when Apostle Pratt was called
home, Franklin D. Richards was installed
as president of the European mission. Dur-
ing the time he was presiding he revised
and enlarged the L. D. S. Hymn Book, and
published an edition of 25,000 copies,
prepared the pamphlet The Pearl of Great
Price, sterotyped the Book of Mormon, and
arranged for sterotyping the Doctrine
and Covenants, issued a new edition of the
Voice of Warning, by P. P. Pratt, and
made the Millennial Star a weekly instead
of a semi-monthly periodical, and performed
various other important labors in connec-
tion with his brethren in the mission. He
returned from this mission in 1852, arriving
in the valley August 20. He remained at
home less than two years, participated in
various public affairs—legislative, military,
civil and Ecclesiastical—and early in 1854
set off again for another mission to Europe,
reaching Liverpool June 4, 1854. It was
while on this mission, in 1855, he founded
42 Islington, which place has been the
Saints’ headquarters ever since.
	In October, 1855, the original Saxon
mission was established in Dresden under
the personal direction of President Richards.
It was also within his province to direct the
branches in the East Indies, Africa, Aus-
tralia, New Zealand and other parts of the
world. Among other literary labors per-
formed at this period, President Richards
published Sister Eliza R. Snow’s first
volume of poems.
	President Richards returned home early
in the fall of 1856, and was busily engaged
in public duties, building up Zion at home
from that time, until in 1866 he was again
appointed on a mission. He arrived in
Liverpool, September 11, and began visiting
the Conferences in Europe, including Scan-
dinavia and other continental Conferences.
In July, 1867, he was again appointed


[Column 1]
to preside over the European mission.
	After filling this last foreign mission, he
returned home to renew his labors in Zion
with greater zeal and earnestness, if that
were possible. In February, 1869, he was
elected probate Judge of Weber County, and
in May of that year moved to Ogden where
he has ever since resided, though much of
his time has been spent in Salt Lake City,
owing to his Ecclesiastical duties as one of
the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, and
he has also been Church Historian ever since
the death of Apostle Orson Pratt. When
the State Historical Society was organized
something over two years ago, Apostle
Richards was elected president. At the
time of President Wilford Woodruff’s de-
cease, when President Lorenzo Snow be-
came president of the Church, Apostle
Richards succeeded to the presidency of the
Quorum of the Twelve Apostles.
	In all the official positions to which Presi-
dent Richards has been appointed or elected,
he has been faithful to the trust and mag-
nified his calling. No man in the Church
was, perhaps, more widely known, and he
was universally respected and beloved. He
has gone full of honors and ripe in years to
an eternal inheritance, and his name will
be held in everlasting remembrance unto
the latest generation of those who dwell
upon the earth.
	The funeral services of President F. D.
Richards were held in the Ogden Taber-
nacle on Tuesday, December 12, commenc-
ing about 1:30 p. m. Several car loads of
people from Salt Lake City went to Ogden
to attend the funeral. Presidents L. Snow,
G. Q. Cannon and Joseph F. Smith, Brig-
ham Young and all the other Apostles who
were at home in Utah, several of the presi-
dents of Seventies, and many other breth-
ren, sisters and friends.
	The Tabernacle was beautifully draped in
white, and the lovely floral offerings were
numerous and many of them magnificent.
The Relief Society of Weber Stake presented
a column of exquisite flowers as a token of
their love and respect for President Rich-
ards, who on all occasions had been their
firm friend and counselor, and never failed
to attend their conferences when it was pos-
sible to meet with them. Such tokens of
appreciation are all the friends can give to
express their tenderness and sympathy for
those who mourn; and there is some satisfac-
tion in bestowing a beautiful gift in times
of sorrow.
	The large Tabernacle was filled to over-
flowing and many were unable to gain
admittance. The exercises were conducted
by Bishop Robert McQuarrie, of the Second
Ward. The choir sang that favorite hymn
“O, my Father,” at the opening, and
Apostle F. M. Lyman offered the pray-
er. The choir sang “Nearer my God to
Thee.”
	President L. W. Shirtliff, of the Weber
Stake, was the first speaker, then Bishop
McQuarrie and Hon. D. H. Perry. A
quartette, “The Passing of the Sweetest
Soul,” was beautifully rendered, after
which Apostle Brigham Young, though
much affected, addressed the assembly.
	President Lorenzo Snow in his remarks
alluded to President Richards and himself
having been ordained to the Apostleship on
the same day, and paid a loving and elo-
quent tribute to his labors and his memory,
blest his family and closed by saying: “We
may think we have sustained a great loss,
but let us understand what Brother Richards
himself has gained.”

[Column 2]
	Presidents Cannon and Smith each spoke
a few moments, testifying of the valiant
works of the deceased and the love they
bore him; of his unflinching integrity to the
Gospel, his humility of spirit and meekness,
and blest his family, his sons and his
daughters.
	The choir sang as the closing hymn,
“Farewell all earthly honors,” and
Apostle John Henry Smith pronounced the
benediction.
EMILY DOW PARTRIDGE YOUNG.
	Mrs. Emily Dow Partridge Young, wife
of the late President Brigham Young, and
one of the distinguished heroines of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
departed this life, Saturday, December 9,
1899, at 4 o’clock, aged seventy-five years,
nine months and ten days.
	Mrs. Young was born in the town of
Painesville, Geauga county, Ohio, on
February 28, 1824. Her parents were
Edward Partridge and Lydia Clisbee Par-
tridge, and were both of them born in
Massachusetts, but moved to Ohio with
their parents when young people, where
they became acquainted, married and settled
in Painesville. Bishop Edward Partridge,
the father of Mrs. Young, was the first pre
siding Bishop ordained in the Church. He
was baptized December 11, 1830, at Seneca
Falls, New York State, by Joseph Smith,
whither he had gone to see the Prophet.
	Mrs. Young grew to womanhood under
the influence of the Gospel, and has been
faithful and devoted to the work through-
out her whole life, never swerving to the
right nor left. With her the Gospel was
ever uppermost. The purity of the life of
this good woman is and has ever been be-
yond question, yet she has known such
persecution as but few women have ex-
perienced. In Kirtland, in Missouri, in
Nauvoo, everywhere that the Saints have
settled Mrs. Young has been associated
with them and passed through the trials
and tribulations incident to the history of
this people. Her autobiography written
by herself and published in the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT, gives some of the most thrilling
instances that have transpired among the
Saints.
	Mrs. Young was gifted intellectually if
she had cultivated her talent for writing,
and could have given us reminiscences of
the experiences of the Saints that would
have been a valuable acquisition to Church
history.
	Mrs. Emily D. Partridge Young was one
of the first women to accept and enter into
the order of plural marriage. She became
the wife of the Prophet Joseph Smith with
the full and free consent of his wife, Emma
Smith. After his death she again entered
into that order and was married to President
Brigham Young, and received her blessings
and all the ordinances of the House of the
Lord in the Temple at Nauvoo, and with
her husband crossed the Mississippi river in
Feb. 1846, at the time of the exodus of the
Saints from Illinois. During that weari-
some journey she experienced many hard-
ships, being in delicate health and travel-
ing with a young babe at that most in-
clement season of the year; but she never
murmured or repined, but bore patiently all
the hardships incident to the journey and
life at Winter Quarters afterwards. The
eldest son of Mrs. Young, born in Nauvoo,
died in this city at the age of seven. He
was named Edward Partridge Young, and

[Column 3]
was a very bright and promising boy. Sis-
ter Young has been the mother of seven
children, Emily Augusta, her eldest daugh-
ter, is the wife of Bishop H. B. Clawson;
Caroline, the second daughter, is the wife
of President George Q. Cannon. Her only
living sun, Prof. Don Carlos Young, resides
at present in Provo and is connected with
the Brigham Young Academy. Miriam is
the wife of Bishop Leonard G. Hardy, and
recently moved to Canada (the only one
absent from the city.) Josephine is the wife
of Dr. A. C. Young. A daughter, Luna,
the youngest child, died when seven
months old. Mrs. Young has over forty
grandchildren, several great grandchildren,
a numerous posterity, and all in the faith of
the Gospel in which she believed and for
which she made great and noble sacrifices.
Mrs. Young was a very retiring, modest-
and reticent woman, but firm in her con-
victions as the everlasting hills.
	Mrs. Young passed away peacefully at
last, although she has suffered with sick-
ness considerably during the last few years.
Her death was the result of general debility
brought on by a kind of nervous prostra-
tion and weakness. She was greatly be-
loved by her own family and also loved and
revered by the family of her late husband,
and the women of the Latter-day Saints
who had the pleasure of her acquaintance.
She died at the residence of her daughter,
Mrs. Clawson, in the Twelfth Ward, though
her own home is in the Second ward.
	Verily it may be said of this saintly
woman, “Her children rise up and call her 
blessed.”
	The funeral services were held in the
Twelfth Ward meeting house and were of a
most interesting character. There were
many floral emblems placed upon the bier,
beautiful designs and loose flowers, fra-
grant with perfume, as was her sweet life
of purity and loveliness. The casket was
pure white and the house was draped with
white; there were no symbols of death and
no feeling of gloom. Tears were shed in
love and sympathy, but only for the separ-
ation from one so well beloved.
	Counselor Wardrop conducted the exercises.
Presidents George Q. Cannon and Joseph
F. Smith were present, and of the Quorum
of the Twelve Apostles, President Brigham
Young, F. M. Lyman, John Henry Smith,
George Teasdale and H. J. Grant.
	The singing was by a quartette of male 
voices, George D. Pyper, H. S. Ensign,
James Dunbar and J. D. Spencer. The
first hymn rendered was “Art thou weary.”
Then an eloquently sympathetic prayer
by Elder Seymour B. Young. The quartette,
“The Savior will comfort you,” was feel-
ingly given.
	President Brigham Young was the first
speaker. He testified to his high regard for
the deceased and spoke of her many virtues.
	Apostle F. M. Lyman followed in a simi-
lar strain, alluding to the sterling character-
istics of the Partridge family.
	President George Q. Cannon dwelt upon
the noble life and many admirable qualities
of Sister Young and of her being a woman
of literary ability, although she had been
backward in exercising herself in this
direction.
	President Joseph F. Smith delivered the
principal discourse, relating many notable
instances and events that had transpired in
the days of the Prophet Joseph. The
speaker seemed filled to overflowing with 
the Holy Spirit.


The closing hymn was “The Night of
Rest,” and the benediction was by Apostle
J. H. Smith.
Sister Young was buried in the city
cemetery, a long line of carriages following
the hearse to the last resting place of the
deceased, where the earthly tabernacle of
the dear departed one was consigned to the
grave, whtch was dedicated by Apostle
Teasdale. And another of the illustrious
heroines of the days of the Prophet Joseph
has gone to meet him on the other side.

So—by small, slow footsteps,
By the daily cross,
By the heart’s unspoken yearning,
By its grief and loss;
So—He brings them home to rest,
With the victors crowned and blest."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
HEROINES OF THE REVOLUTION.
	One of the well-known women and
what she endured, was Anna Warner Bailey,
known as Mother Bailey. She witnessed
the massacre of Fort Griswold, walked
three miles to find a wounded uncle, and at
his request to see his wife and child she ran
home, saddled a horse for the feeble mother,
and carried the child herself to see the dy-
ing patriot. In 1813, when the British
threatened to attack New London, she tore
up flannel garments for cartridges. What a
heroic character!
	What did our Revolutionary grandmothers
not do? They were obliged to go into the
fields and work, because there were no
men to be had. The women had to farm,
cook, nurse, fight and protect themselves.
Deborah Sampson, whose story we
completed in our last issue, died in Sharon,
Conn., in 1827, at fifty-seven years of age.
She sustained to the end a brave character,
made a faithful and exemplary wife and
mother, a kind neighbor and friend, and we
will thank her for her part in the war
which helped to set us free, and overlook
the unpleasantness of her adventure.
“True patriots, like true saints, frequently
come out of great tribulations strong men
and women.”
	The women suffered greatly from small-
pox contracted from the British soldiers.
Hannah Cartaret, daughter of Sir George
Cartaret, of New Jersey, was among the
list. She became the wife of Cornelius
Bryant and they had a daughter, Betsy
Bryant, who was called one of the heroic
girls of the Revolution. She is called the
Revolutionary grandmother of our chapter,
for there are two members of the Knicker-
bocker chapter descended from these two
brave women. Many handsome women
and pretty girls were made ugly looking,
and many died of small-pox.
	They knew how sublime a thing it is to
suffer and be strong.
	Mrs. Hannah Caldwell, wife, of the
“Soldier Parson,” of Elizabeth, N. J., was
praying for her enemies that they might be
pardoned, when she was shot. She had an
infant in her arms at the time. She left
nine children, one son, John Edwards, was
afterwards adopted and educated by the
Marquis de LaFayette.
	No pen of historian or poet can tell the
story of the Revolution as it actually
pressed upon the hands and hearts of our
grandfathers and grandmothers. The ex-
ertions and sacrifices made by them are far
beyond computation, and by the blessings
of heaven they achieved a success beyond
their hopes. For more than a hundred
years their posterity has been reaping the

[Column 2]
fruits of their toils, and a vast and growing
Republic is their monument.
	The Revolution not only tried the
courage of our grandfathers, but also of
our grandmothers. “Mrs. Nancy Bundy
with her husband and two children, was
captured at the massacre of Wyoming and
taken to Genesee County where she was
parted from her husband. She had not
been there long before the Indian who
took her prisoner wished her to become his
wife, which she refused, saying, ‘I have
one, it would be unlawful for me to take
another.’ He left her. Shortly after he
returned saying, ‘Now you have me—your
husband is dead,’ to which she replied, I
cannot marry a murderer.’ When he saw
she hated him, he tied her, took her to
Niagara, and sold her for eight dollars.
She never knew what became of her chil-
dren.”—History of Scoharie, on page
336.
	The burden of the war fell very heavily
upon New Jersey; it was the battlefield of
the Revolution. The women of Morris
County were brave, especially so the shrewd
Mrs. Miller, When she heard the British
declare they would triumph, she concen-
trated the Whigs of that region and held
meetings in her own house so as to defeat
the Tories, and cleared them out, showing
her great power. There were many women
like her. Oh, that we could know their
names!
	Anna Kitchell was a fair representative
scorning protection. While her husband
and four brothers were away in the Ameri-
can army, she kept the great pot full of
food for the patriot soldiers, and when asked
why she did not have some protection she
replied: “If the God of battle will not take
care of us we will fare with the rest.” This
large pot held half a barrel of meat and
potatoes, and similar pots were kept filled
in other homes.
		HELEN MELINDA FISHER.


[Column 1]
FROM A MOTHER’S STANDPOINT.
	Long ago in the lovely vales of Utah
dwelt a childless married woman. After
seven years of unsatisfied longing, loving
and revering her worthy husband more as
the years proved him to be the highest type
of manhood combined with great integrity,
they both greatly desiring offspring, which
it seemed in vain to hope for. At last,
with the full consent of all concerned, this
worthy man took to wife another Daughter
of Zion, familarly known and loved by
both husband and wife. In a year’s time a
son was born to gladden their hearts, and
in due time another son and then a daugh-
ter, then another son. Then, after a score
of years of waiting, a son, promised by the
spirit of prophecy, came to the childless
wife. She was visited by hundreds of
women, rejoicing that she had triumphed,
and saying she had been blessed even as
Sarah of old, she herself knowing it was
even so.
	In due time another son and two daugh-
ters were born to this just man and his
patient and true wife, until quite a family
belonged, to this once childless man, he still
gaining yearly the esteem and love of his
now large family, proving most faithful,
even unto death.
	Unjust persecution, cruel and needless
crusade, with a little sickness, combined to
take him to a better sphere, leaving his
wives and family to battle on and win; and

[Column 2]
with such a foundation they felt they must
not fail.
	Now, has this state of affairs wrought
good or evil?
	Those most concerned think the former
will far out-balance the latter, their
greatest ambition being to prove worthy to
live in this most holy and revealed family
order with the father of their offspring,
throughout a never ending Eternity.
	The writer having been born through
this same order of marriage, (her father
was one of the first Apostles in the Church)
cannot do otherwise than revere the same,
though her people are now prohibited from
its practise.
	With her belief, and remembering her
pioneer parents, feeling a divine assurance
that these conditions will exist forever in
Eternity for the faithful, she naturally
enters a plea for the principle as justice
for her children born in this pure and holy
order. The husband of this woman frankly
told her during their courtship that with
his convictions she might not be the only
wife he might ever take; and if she did not
feel to acquiesce, now was the time to with-
draw.
	Was this not honorable and straightfor-
ward?
	After the step was taken, she regarded
him with new interest, and no coldness
arose between them.
	Here are mentioned by title some of the
lullaby songs which the childless wife sung
to her husband’s children: There is a
Home Eternal, Wildwood Flowers, Belle
Brandon, Swanee River, Katie Wells,
Gentle Annie, Afton Waters, Rock Me to
Sleep Mother, The Mistletoe Bough, Down
in the Cornfield, Nellie Gray, Highland
Mary, O Zion. And her audience was
most appreciative until sweet sleep closed
the innocent young eyes.
	Did she enjoy amusing these chil-
dren?
	So much that if she were away from
them at eventide she longed to be with
them, even as an own mother might have
done. Can she or they forget those happy
days, the songs or the singer? Never!
	Grateful for the philosophic spirit that
inspired her she toiled for the children,
making the sewing machine hum in those
days for the dear ones; and at night those
blessed home hearts-ease concerts—truly
those were happy days!
	A piece of household furniture never to
be forgotten was a large rocker, roomily
serving for two children, in which they
often ate their evening meal. Oh! those
halcyon days are now long past.
	Now, having children of her very own,
she does not always think to sing at even-
tide (their father having gone before, she is
not as tuneful as of yore) until at their re-
quest she sings the same old songs, with
the same effect upon her audience, bring-
ing back those hearts-ease days, not then so
full of care. And she is grateful for the
truth forced upon her, that time is not al-
ways lost in singing to young children, or
those of riper years who will listen.
	One of the sons of this happy household
served his country, and distinguished him-
self by his heroism in the struggles in
Manila, with Battery A. 
	The tender young life of this precious
promised son was most tenderly cared for in
the first weeks of his helplessness by his
father’s elder sister, than whom a truer
woman never lived in mortality.
						RACHEL.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THANKSGIVING DAY.
’Tis meet we render praise.
	Thanksgiving Day had its origin in
America (the New World) appointed by our
Puritan fathers away back in the time of
the first settlements in New England, they
having left the old world where they had
been persecuted for their religion’s sake
and driven from place to place. At last
they sailed to the shores of the New World
with a determination to be free to worship
God according to the dictates of their own
conscience.
	One year had passed away since they
landed from the Mayflower, when, accord-
ing to history, they held the first Thanks-
giving Day. The following selected lines
describe it so beautifully. They were sug-
gested by this extract from Palfrey’s his-
tory of New England:
	There was great store of wild Turkeys of which
they took many besides venison—the fowlers had
been sent out by the Governor that so they might,
after a special manner rejoice together after they
had gathered the fruits of their labor.
The First Thanksgiving.
BY ALICE WILLIAMS BOTHERTON.
					I.
In Puritan New England a year had passed away,
Since first beside the Plymouth coast the English
	Mayflower lay,
When Bradford, the good Governor, sent fowlers
	forth to snare
The turkey and the wild fowl, to increase the
	scanty fare:—
					II.
“Our husbandry hath prospered; there is corn
	enough for food,
Though the ‘pease be parched in blossom, and the
	corn indifferent good.’
Who blessed the loaves and fishes for the feast
	miraculous,
And filled with oil the widow’s cruse, He hath re-
	membered us!
					III.
“Give thanks thanks unto the Lord of hosts, by whom we
	all are fed,
Who granted us our daily prayer, ‘Give us our
	daily bread!’
By us and by our children let this day be kept for
	aye,
In memory of His bounty, as the land’s Thanks-
	giving day.”
					IV.
Each brought his share of Indian-meal the pious
	feast to make,
With the fat deer from the forest and the wild fowl
	from the brake,
And chanted hymn and prayer were raised—
	though eyes with tears were dim— 
“The Lord He hath remembered us, let us remem-
	ber Him!”
					V.
Then Bradford stood up at their head and lifted
	up his voice:—
“The corn is gathered from the field, I call you to
	rejoice;
Thank God for all His mercies, from the greatest
	to the least;
Together have we fasted, friends, together let us
	feast.”
					VI.
“The Lord who led forth Israel was with us in the
	waste;
Sometime in light, sometime in cloud, before us he
	hath paced.
Now give Him thanks, and pray to Him who
	holds us in His hand
To prosper us and make of this a strong and
	mighty band!”
					VII.
From Plymouth to the *Golden Gate, today their
	children tread,
The mercies of the bounteous Hand upon the land
	are shed;

[Column 2]
The “flocks are on a thousand hills,” the prairies
	wave with grain,
The cities spring like mushrooms now, where once
	was desert plain.
					VIII.
Heap high the board with plenteous cheer and
	gather to the feast,
And toast that sturdy Pilgrim band whose courage
	never ceased,
Give praise to that All-Gracious One by whom
	their steps were led,
And thanks unto the Harvest’s Lord who sends
	our “daily bread!”
*Phillipines.
	The first proclamation of Thanksgiving
Day that will be found in printed form is
the one issued by Francis Bernard, captain-
general and governor-in-chief in and over
his majesty’s province of Massachusetts
Bay in New England, and vice-admiral of
the same, in 1763. This is the text:
First Thanksgiving Proclamation.
	“As the business of the year is now drawing to-
ward a conclusion, we are reminded, according
to the laudable usage of the Province, to join to-
gether in a graceful acknowledgment of the mani-
fold mercies of the Divine Providence conferred
upon Us in the passing Year: Wherefore, I have
thought to appoint, and do, with the advice of his
Majesty’s Council, appoint Thursday, the Third
Day of December next, to be a day of public
Thanksgiving, that we may thereupon with one
Heart and Voice return our most Humble Thanks
to Almighty God for the gracious Dispensations of
His Providence since the last religious Anniversary
of this kind, and especially for—that He has been
pleased to preserve and maintain our most gracious
Sovereign, King George, in health and Wealth, in
Peace and Honor, and to extend the Blessings of
his government to the remotest part of his Domin-
ions; that He hath been pleased to bless and pre-
serve our gracious Queen Charlotte, their Royal
Highnesses, the Prince of Wales, the Princess
Dowager of Wales, and all the Royal family, and
by the frequent increase of the Royal issue to
assure us the Continuation of the Blessings which
we derive from that illustrious House; that He
hath been pleased to prosper the whole British
Empire by the Preservation of Peace, the Increase
of Trade and the opening of new Sources of
National Wealth; and now particularly that He
hath been pleased to favor the people of this
Province with healthy and kindly Seasons, and to
bless the Labour of their Hands with a Sufficiency
of the Produce of the Earth and of the Sea.
	“And I do exhort all Ministers of the Gospel
with their several Congregations, within this Prov- 
ince, that they assemble on the said Day in a
Solemn manner to return their most humble thanks
to Almighty God for these and all other of His
Mercies vouchsafed unto us, and to beseech Him
notwithstanding our Unworthiness to continue His
gracious Providence over us. And I command
and enjoin all Magistrates of Civil Officers to
see that the said Day be observed as a Day set
apart for religious worship, and that no servile
Labour be performed thereon.
	“Given at the Council Chamber in Boston the
Fourth Day of November, 1767, in the Eighth
Year of the Reign of our Sovereign Lord George
the Third, by the Grace of God, of Great Britain,
France and Ireland, King, Defender of the Faith,
etc.					FRA. BERNARD.
	“By His Excellency’s Command.
	“God Save The King.”
					A. OLIVER, Sec’ry.
	Years passed on filled with trials and
tribulations. Such times that tried men’s
souls to the center and strengthened their
faith in God, and educated our forefathers
and mothers up to that high standard where
they would rather suffer death as martyrs
than to forsake the principles of truth and
right, by which consequence liberty came to
them and us, after seven long years of war
with the mother country.
	So opened a new Era to the nation’s
heroes and heroines, and adds one more
great blessing for which to be thankful. I
feel certain they did not forget to keep the
“Thanksgiving Day” each year as it came
along with its prosperity.
	One Hundred and twenty-three years

[Column 3]
have since passed and the nation still does
honor to God and the illustrious Pilgrims.
Each year the President of the United
States issues a proclamation to the nations,
telling how the day shall be celebrated and
proclaiming it a public holiday. The
Governor of each state issues a similar
proclamation to the people in his state.
	Indeed we have much to be thankful for.
It is impossible to trace our country’s his-
tory, from 1776 up to the present, without
feeling that Providence, which was with
them at the beginning, has continued to us
as a nation His gracious interposition.
When we have been engaged in war, He
has given us the victory. In peace we
have been singularly blessed, and our pro-
gress has gone on unchecked and ever
increasing In boundless wealth of soil and
mine and forest, nature has blessed us,
while all races of men of every nation, abili-
ty and climate, have contributed their
good blood to make our nation what it is.
We have grown from thirteen states to
forty-five. We have increased in wealth
and extent and importance in every way.
The youth of our country is also increasing,
and on them will rest the responsibility of
good government in the future. They
are being educated for the work by the
fatherly care of both state and nation.
Government by the people has been ad-
vanced. Freedom under the flag is more
universal than when the Union was first
formed. Patriotism dwells, in the hearts of
the people. Witness 250,000 springing to
arms at the first call of our honored presi-
dent, William McKinley, at the beginning
of the Spanish war; also the 70,000 recently
enlisted men, and thousands ready to enlist
if their country needed them.
	After one hundred and twenty-three
years our “Liberty” stands unshaken. May
we not feel assured that if we do our duty,
Providence, which favored the undertakings
of the Fathers and every step of the pro-
gress since, will continue this watchful care
over us, and that the hand which led us to
our present plane will not relax its grasp
until we have reached the glorious goal He
has fixed for us in the achievement of this
end.
	But the crowning blessing for which we
should be most thankful is the restoration
of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, which has
been restored to this great “Land of Zion”
and to every honest heart who will receive
it with its saving and healing power. It
has  come to heal up the nations and
make fruitful the waste places; to bind up
the broken hearted; to restore peace and
universal brotherhood in all the nations of
the earth.
	We should rejoice that His holy Temples
are being built, that between heaven and
earth a communication has been restored
from which cometh light to all the world,
and God has not forgotten his children.

	“Be Thou, O God, exalted high,
	And as Thy glory fills the sky,
	So let it be on earth displayed,
	Till Thou art here, as there, obeyed.”

	“From all that dwells below the skies
	Let the Creator’s praise arise,
	Let the Redeemer’s praise be sung
	Through every land by every tongue.”

	“Eternal are Thy mercies, Lord,
	Eternal truth attends Thy word,
	Thy praise shall sound from shore to
		shore,
	Till suns shall rise and set no more.”
				DELILA E. DUDLEY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Semi-Monthly Meeting convened
October 28, 1899, in the 14th ward hall,
Counselor E. Webb presiding.
	Meeting opened with singing, “Where the
voice of friendship’s heard.” Prayer by
Sister Julia C. Howe. Singing, “O, say
what is truth.” Minutes of previous meet-
ing read and approved.
	President Horne said we are here in this
world to be tried and proven, and we will
get what we merit in this school for future
life. If we are living to gain celestial glory,
we must do the work that we may merit
such glory. We have the promise that if
we seek, we shall find. This is the last
dispensation, time is drawing to a close.
The Savior says, “He that overcometh
shall sit down with me.” We should
strive to overcome our weaknesses. Said
she wished the president of each society
when there is sickness to apply to Superin-
tendent Riter for a nurse. They should
also keep a report of the nurses in their
respective wards and we should not make
paupers of people, we should be wise judges,
help those who are needy, but some solicit
alms when not needy.
	Sister Johnson bore a faithful testimony
of the truth of the Gospel.
	Counselor Webb said though we had had
comparative peace, it seemed that the evil-
minded were organizing themselves against
us now.
	Sister Wright spoke of the necessity of
having faith and helping each other in time
of sickness, and not be filled with fear.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde believed every
woman should have her name on the tithing
books. She read a sketch from the Deseret
News, defaming the Church and people.
	Sister Julia Howe said she knew we were
misrepresented, wished we were more per-
fect. Many were straying away, the re-
sponsibility was great upon the parents.
Felt that the Relief Society teachers could
accomplish much in their rounds, in talking
to the mothers in regard to their children.
Exhorted them to have their children attend
their meetings.
	Sister Brown said she wished to be very
honest and faithful, and knew she must
watch herself carefully.
	A sister (name unknown) bore a testi-
mony of the truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Waterfall felt grieved because of
the reports detrimental to our people, that
go out and get published to the world.
	Sister Martha Morris sang “O Jesus, the
Giver.”
	Sister C. S. Williams said she was born
in the Church. Thought we did not appre-
ciate it as the people who came from the
world. She had heard an apostle say that
those born under the covenant would be
claimed by the parents.
	Sister Mary L. Morris said we should
pray for those who are placed over us. She
had never received any injury from attend-
ing the most malignant cases of scarlet
fever, and she believed the Lord helped us
under these circumstances.
	Sister Bateman said she had been in the
Church over fifty years. She thanked the
Lord every day that she had been gathered
with the Saints.
	A stranger in the congregation said she
was a friend of women. Said the great
calamity the world was looking for was the
Almighty separating the wheat from the
tares.
	President Horne made some promises to

[Column 2]
the sisters in regard to their spiritual wel-
fare. Said we have a knowledge of things;
that God has revealed himself unto us; that
the Elders are going into the nations pro-
claiming His Gospel continually. Whom
do we persecute, injure or annoy? Said we
would hold, if convenient, our conference
on the 23rd of December, the birthday of
the Prophet Joseph Smith. Said she wished
the Relief Society presidents to prepare for
comfort of the poor in the wards.
	Meeting adjourned by singing “Satan’s
empire long has flourished.” Benediction
by J. S. Woolley.
J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.


U. W. P. C.
	The pleasant home of Mrs. C. F. Wilcox
was thrown open to the members and guests
of the U. W. P. C., Tuesday, October 31,
1899.
	Mrs. Lillie T. Freeze opened the meeting
with prayer, after which Mrs. Bassett sang
“I Am Dreaming a Dream.”
	The names of Mrs. Ada Cannon, Miss
Bessie Louise Shirley and Mrs. Grace
Anderson were proposed as members of the
club. All were unanimously elected.
	A beautiful poem, written by Mrs. M. A.
Freeze, was read by Mrs. Bassett. This
was followed by a carefully prepared paper
on the resume of the year’s work, by Mrs.
H.V. Kimball, and those present were
highly entertained by Mrs. E. B. Wells’
account of her visit to Marie Corelli’s home
in Stratford-on-Avon.
	The election of officer then followed, and
the following were elected:
President—Aimee C. Schiller.
First Vice-President—Emma Jensen.
Second Vice-President—Maria Francis.
Secretary—Grace Anderson.
Assistant Secretary—Mrs. Ruth M. Fox.
Corresponding Secretary—Dr. R. B. Pratt
Assistant Corresponding Secretary—Edith A.
Lovesey.
Treasurer—Ella W. Hyde.
Chairman Program Committee—Helen V.
Kimball,
Historian—Dr. E. R. Shipp.
AIMEE C. SCHILLER, Sec.


[Column 1]
90% OF AMERICAN WOMEN
wash dishes three times each day. If you are one
of these, wear a pair of “Goodyear” Rubber
Gloves and always have soft, white hands. Sent
by mail postpaid, on receipt of $1.59 Agents
wanted. Address, M. O. Dept.,
M. F. Reese Supply Co., Setauket, N. Y.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

[Column 2]
[logo of a shield]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD’S PICTORIAL LINE.

[to the right of the logo]
THE PEOPLE’S FAVORITE.

			Leave Salt Lake City
No. 6 	The “Fast Mail” for Chicago, St. Paul, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and
		Park City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7 00 a.m.
No. 2 	The “Over and Limited” for Chicago, St.
		Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
		Denver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	11 45 a.m.
No. 4	The “Atlantic Express” for Chicago, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver. .	6 40 p.m.

			Arrive Salt Lake City.
No. 5 	The “Fast Mall” from Chicago, St. Louis,
		Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and Park
		City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3 00 p. m.
No. 1	The “Overland Limited” from Chicago, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver. .	3 00 p. m.
No. 3	The “Pacific Express” from Chicago, St.
		Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
		Denver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3 30 p. m.
CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 Main St.		Telephone 665.
	H. M. CLAY, General Agent.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
		LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

OREGON SHORT LINE RAILROAD.

Time Table in Effect October 15, 1899.

	Trains will arrive and depart at Salt Lake City daily as fol-
lows:
					ARRIVE:
From Ogden, Chicago, Omaha, St. Louis and Denver,	3:30 a.m.
From Ogden, Portland, Butte, Helena and San Fran-
	cisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	9:05 a.m.
*From Milford, Sanpete, Provo and Intermediate
	points. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	9:35 a.m.
From Ogden, Chicago, St. Louis, Omaha, Denver and
	San Francisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3:00 p.m.
**From Garfield Beach, Tooele and Terminus. . . . . .	4:00 p.m.
From Tintic and Mercur . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	6:30 p.m.
Cache Valley Express, from Preston, Logan, Ogden
	and intermediate points. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	6:40 p.m.
From Ogden, Butee, San Francisco and intermediate
	point. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7:50 p.m.

					DEPART.
For Ogden, Omaha, Chicago, Denver, St. Louis and
	Cache Valley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7:00 a.m.
For Tintic and Mercur . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7:55 a.m.
**For Garfield Beach, Tooele and Terminus . . . . . . .	7:45 a.m.
For Ogden, Butte, Helena, Portland and intermediate
	points . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	9:45 a.m.
For Ogden, Omaha, Chicago, Denver, St. Louis and
	San Francisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	11:45 a.m.
*For Provo, Sanpete, Milford and intermediate points	5:30 p.m.
For Ogden, Denver, Omaha, St. Louis and Chicago . .	6:40 p.m.
For Ogden, Butte, San Francisco and intermediate
	points . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	8:45 p.m.
*Trains south of Juab do not run Sundays.
**Daily except Sunday.
City Ticket Office Under Masonic Hall, 2nd South St,
S. W. ECCLES,		D. E. BURLEY,
Gen. Traffic Manager.	Gen. P. nd T. A.
	W. H. T, BANCROF
	Vice-President and Gen’l Manager.


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 28. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1900. No. 15.


CONTENTS.
Memorial Services at Mount Vernon........89.
Miss Anthony’s Letter....Susan B. Anthony 89.
Annual Convention N. A. W. S. A...........
	.....................Rachel Foster Avery 89.
Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting...A. T. Hyde 90.
A Woman Missionary....Mrs. Addison Pratt 91.
Polygamy and Unlawful Cohabitation.........
	...........................Lorenzo Snow 92.
R. S. Reports—Josepa Relief Society........93.
	Weber Stake.............................93.
	Salt Lake Stake..........................94.
	Hawaiian Mission........................94.
Josepa Items.................Emily G. Cluff 95.
Obituary—Martha B. Taylor....M. A. Tudden-
	ham....................................95.
U. W. P. C.................Grace Anderson 96.
Christmas................Susan E. Thompson 96.
EDITORIAL—The New Year and the New Cen-
	tury.....................................92.
Editorial Notes............................92.
POETRY—The Two Cities..........Selected 89.
	I Follow Thee........Ethel Allen Murphy 91.
	Carrara......................-Anonymous 91.
	Elizabeth Cady Stanton. Grace Greenwood 91.


THE TWO CITIES.
On the dusky s re of evening, stretched in
	shining peace it lies,
City built of clouds and sunshine—wonder of
	the Western skies.
While I watch and long for pinions, thither-
	ward to take my flight,
Slow the ærial city fadeth, and vanisheth from
	sight.
Ruby dome and silver temple, circling wall of
	amethyst,
Fall in silence, leaving only purple ruin hung
	with mist.
Darkness gathers, Eastward, Westward; strong-
	er waxeth my desire,
Reaching through celestial spaces, glittering
	as with rain of fire.
To the city set with jasper, having twelve
	foundations fair,
Flashing from their jeweled splendor every col-
	or soft and rare.
Twelve in number are its gateways—numbered
	by the seer of old—
Every gate a pearl most lustrous—and its
	streets are paved with gold.
In the midst, in dazzling whiteness, lightens
	the eternal throne;
From it flows the living water—round it gleams
	an emerald zone.
Luscious fruits and balmy odors, healing leaves
	and cooling shade,
Either side the life tree sheddeth, by sweet
	storms of music swayed.
O, thou grand, untempled city, seen by John
	in vision bright,
Glory-flooded, needing neither sun by day nor
	moon by night.
Filled forever and forever by the shining
	light of Him
Who redeemed the world, and sitteth throned
	between the Seraphlm!
Through thy lovely gates the nations of the
	saved in triumph stream,
Chanting praise above all praises—love of
	love their holy theme!
They no more shall thirst or hunger—they no
	more with heat shall faint;
Christ for tears will give them gladness—bliss-
	ful rest for sore complaint.
“Blessed they who do His bidding!" cries the
	angel, day and night;
They shall find abundant entrance—they shall
	walk with Him in white!
SELECTED.


MEMORIAL SERVICES AT MOUNT VERNON.
	The one hundredth anniversary of the
death of George Washington, which occured
December 14, 1799, was appropriately re-
membered by the patriotic and Masonic
societies throughout the land.
	At Mount Vernon the scene was impres-
sive as conducted by the Masonic Order.
President McKinley, accompanied by mem-
bers of his Cabinet, attended the exercises
and delivered an address. The procession
that moved up the slope to the mansion
consisted of the Third United States
Cavalry band, Grand Tiler of the Grand
Lodge of Virginia, Master Masons of the
District of Columbia, visiting Master
Masons and Local Lodges.
	President McKinley reviewed the pro-
cession with uncovered head, and, as the
last of it passed the mansion, the presiden-
tial party fell in line at the rear and marched
to the tomb where Washington was first in-
terred, and where Masonic exercises were
held one hundred years ago.
	A dirge by the Marine band was played
and a prayer was offered by the Right Rev.
A. M. Randolph, Bishop of the Episcopal
diocese of Southern Virginia. The Grand
Master Mason of Colorado then delivered an
address.
	At the conclusion of the speech the pro-
cession was formed with the Grand Master
of Virginia, Grand officers and invited
guests, the Grand Masters of the thirteen
original states, together with the three
lodges, and proceeded to the present tomb.
Arriving there, the Grand Master of Vir-
ginia and other Grand officers took a posi-
tion in front of the tomb. The ceremonies
consisted of a prayer by the Grand Chaplain
and a speech by the Grand Master of Vir-
ginia. He asked for responses and greet-
ings from the thirteen original states, and
these were given by their respective Grand
Masters.
	The ritual was read and the Grand
Master deposited evergreen wreaths upon
the tomb. Beginning with sunrise and
ending with sunset a gun was fired every
half hour at Fort Washington. A platoon
of Light Battery, M. Seventh United States
Artillery from Washington Barracks, fired a
salute of twenty-one guns, and at the con-
clusion of the ceremonies at the new tomb
three volleys were fired by a detachment of
Battery A, Fourth United States Artillery,
Fort Hunt, Va. When the President fin-
shed his address twenty-one guns were
fired by the United States steamship, Sylph[-]
While the guns from the war vessel were
booming, the entire assembly sang
"America.”
	The Masons had scarcely departed from
Mount Vernon when the Red Men arrived
at the tomb. They went through the cere-
monies prepared by the committee appointed
at the last session of the Great Council of
the United States, held in Washington
last September. The ceremony was per-
formed in the evening at their home lodges
by 2,200 different tribes throughout the
country.
Spirit of '76.


MISS ANTHONY'S LETTER.
ROCHESTER, N. Y., Dec. 25, 1899.
	In this, my eightieth year, I am filled
with a great desire to urge all believers in
the political enfranchisement of women to
manifest that belief in some material way.
Will you not, as a New Year’s pledge,
promised to aid the Suffrage Association in
some direct manner? No woman is so
situated that she cannot do something.
Write me, therefore, that you will do one or
all of the following things: Become a
member of our local club or State Associa-
tion, organize a club, write to the president
of your State Association, telling her that
you stand ready and willing to do anything
in your power which she may call upon
you to do, or contribute a certain amount of
money to the treasury of your local county,
state or national society, that your name
may be counted among those who love the
cause of equal rights for women.
	The command to labor for the elevation
of human kind is not upon a chosen few
only, but upon every intelligent being. I
send this appeal to you personally, and I
beg you to reply to me personally.
Yours sincerely,
SUSAN B. ANTHONY.


ANNUAL CONVENTION N. A. W. S. A.
	The thirty-second annual convention of
the National Woman’s Suffrage Associa-
tion will be held in Washington, in the
Church of our Father, February 8 to 14,
inclusive.
	The nineteenth century was called by
the poet prophet, Victor Hugo, “The
Century of Woman.” Since the dawn of
history exceptional women have demon-
strated by their high abilities as inventors,
skilled workers, poets, artists, teachers and
rulers, that in the domain of intellect woman
was not under the ban of Nature, but under
that of statute and custom. But for the
mass of women the nineteenth century has
been the only epoch in history which has
given them rights as women or opportuni-
ties as human beings.
	To state the difference in the position of
women in all fields of activity between
what it was at the beginning of the century
and is now at its close, would be to present
a series of transformations surpassing the
magic of Aladdin’s lamp.
	The way up the height of woman’s ad-
vancement has been long and steep, but it
has not been dreary. The consciousness of
giving the world a forward movement along
the path of liberty is the highest reward
vouchsafed to human effort. The greatest
men of the century have walked with us.
Poets have sung for us; prophets have
inspired us with visions of success; states-
men have made courts and forums ring
with eloquence in our behalf. Brickbats
have blossomed into roses; scorn has be-
come applause; timidity, opposition and
indifference have changed into a grand
chorus of appeal for woman’s equality be-
fore the law.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Let us then close the century with a con-
vention which shall be a jubilee for our
successes and preparation for the twentieth
century, which is to be not man’s nor wom-
an’s, but humanity’s.
	SUSAN B. ANTHONY,
President.
	ANNA H. SHAW.
Vice-President.
	RACHEL FOSTER AVERY,
Corresponding Secretary.
	ALICE STONE BLACKWELL,
Recording Secretary.
	HARRIET TAYLOR UPTON,
Treasurer.
	LAURA CLAY,
Auditor.
	CATHERINE WAUGH MCCULLOUGH,
Auditor.
	CARRIE CHAPMAN CATT,
Chairman Organ. Com.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Semi-Monthly Meeting was held
November 25, 1899, at the usual hour and
place, Counselor E. J. Stevenson presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing “O awake,
my slumbering minstrel.” Prayer by
Counselor Elizabeth Webb. Singing,
“Now let us rejoice.” Minutes of the
previous meeting read and approved.
	Sister Stevenson said Sister Zina D. H.
Young and herself had visited Cache Valley
last week. They had excellent meetings
in numbers, and also a great flow of the
spirit.
	President M. I. Horne hoped all had
come today to receive a blessing and had
left their cares at home. Felt we were pros-
pering temporally and spiritually. God
has chosen us out of the world, and we
should all examine ourselves and see if we
are living the life of a Saint. The Lord
has given to his children in the world great
knowledge, but they have not had given to
them the privilege of the Gospel. Spoke of
the wonderful inventions and discoveries
since the organization of the Church, and
we have the benefit of them. The Saints
could not be brought to this land so safely
without the modern improvements. Our
enemies can take everything of a temporal
nature from us, but they cannot take the
testimony of the Gospel. God is no re-
spector of persons. He has bestowed upon
those in the world much useful knowledge,
but to us He has given higher duties, Tem-
ple work, etc.
	Dr. E. S. Barney spoke of the faithful-
ness of President Horne and thought we
should hold up her hands as those of Moses
were held up. Said: “She has been guided
by inspiration, her works speak for her. As
you labor God will reward you.”
	Sister Jane James and Sister Butterworth
each made good remarks.
	Sister Lula Greene Richards spoke of the
old Retrenchment Association and the neces-
sity of reviving these things again. Spoke
of the covenant she had entered into with
many other sisters, in the Tabernacle, by
request of President Young, that she would
wear plain hats. And she knew if we
would be more plainly dressed, retrench,
not follow the fashions of Babylon, we
would be more blessed.
	Sister Almeda Young thought we should
not follow all the fashions of the world and
wished to be one who would dress plainly,
for she knew it to be more pleasing to the
Lord.
	Sister Julia C. Howe believed the same

[Column 2]
spirit that rested upon President Snow in
regard to paying tithing, rests upon Sister
Horne in reviving retrenchment. Thought
we should retrench in eating and drinking,
dressing, etc.
	Sister Zina D. H Young said: “We are
blessed with the spirit of the living God
here today. Anything we ask for of the
Lord in righteousness will be given us.
Every face here is like a star.” Said we
had a right to inspiration to help us in our
work. Spoke of the good example Presi-
dent Young had set for the people and
these organizations, and how they had been
blessed in the work.
	Sister Martha Morris rejoiced that she
was present. Said let us be one, love one
another and be true to our Maker.
	Sister Maria W. Wilcox said she knew
this was the true Church. Knew we would
be rewarded if we would keep the com
mandments of God. Thought the spirit of
retrenchment should be brought among us.
	Sister Julia S. Woolley believed it was
necessary to teach our children economy
and retrenchment, for the punishments
promised would be fulfilled.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde felt we should re-
trench, had felt it for a great while. Said
our daughters should not follow the fash-
ions. Announced that two weeks from
that day a lecture would be given in the
Templeton, at 3 o’clock, the first of a series
on hygiene, anatomy, physiology, wife-
hood, motherhood, etc., given by Dr.
Margaret C. Roberts and others.
	President Horne said she always wore
straw hats made at home as long as she
could get them. She believed in wearing
home made clothing.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing, “Come let us anew.” Benediction by
Sister Clara C. Cannon.

	Minutes of the meeting held January 6,
1900, Sister E. J. Stevenson presiding.
	Meeting opened with singing, and prayer
by Counselor E. Webb. Singing, “Come
let us anew.” Minutes of previous meeting
read by Sister A. T. Hyde, the secretary
being absent from home.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson spoke of beginning
the year aright, Said, “Do not speak evil
of one another, let us try to improve our-
selves in this respect.” Spoke of the faith-
fulness of Mrs. M. A. Hyde, who was
present and would speak to us. Spoke of
teaching our children the need of retrench-
ment, never run in debt and impress our
children never to. Spoke of the death of
F. D. Richards, the friend of woman. Said
to be exemplary mothers and missionaries,
for there is great need of missionary work
here as well as abroad.
	Sister Eliza Angel felt that we had had a
glorious meeting at our confe[-]ence. She
had been in the Church forty-five years.
	Sister Wright, Sister Sarah Phelps and
another sister (name unknown) spoke upon
interesting subjects, and a sister sang a
hymn.
	Sister M. A. Hyde never came here but
she felt the sweet spirit that was manifest
at these meetings. In the year 1843 she
went to an evening meeting and spoke in
tongues, although it was her first attempt
at speaking. She had the privilege of
hearing the Prophet Joseph when he said
that things would transpire in the last days
that would make our ears tingle. She felt
to put her trust in the Lord. Not many
have too much wealth, we are blessed if we
have sufficient for the day. Said it was the

[Column 3]
gift of her husband, Apostle Orson Hyde,
to understand the signs of the times, and
he often spoke of them. She felt as if she
were left alone, for so many had passed
away. Loved to commune with the Saints
and said, “Let us build each other up, for
there is no other joy than to serve the
Lord.”
	Sister Hardy hoped to be able to stand
faithful. Enjoyed the teachings that were
given on the anniversary of the birthday of
the Prophet Joseph Smith.
	A sister in the meeting bore a very
strong and faithful testimony.
	Sister Horne felt that it was here that we
listened to each others’ testimonies, and it
was always a feast. Felt those who were
diligent in the different organizations were
heaven’s nobility. There were tests that
were trying to the aged and also the youth.
Encouraged parents to have their children
attend to their prayers. Said many neither
teach their children nor have family prayers.
Spoke of the union in the 22nd ward branch
and the great good they had accomplished.
Said we must reconcile ourselves to the de-
vision of the Stake.
	Sister Morris sang “Redeemer of
Israel.”
	Sister Webb spoke of the new year. Said
we should cultivate the spirit that comes
from the Lord, which is humility, long-
suffering charity and love. It is necessary
that we be chastened, but He will always
succor us if we put our trust in Him.
Hoped we would always be on the watch-
tower and exhorted all to go to the Temple.
Said how would we feel if the Temple were
closed?
	Another sister felt like acknowledging
the goodness of the Lord. Spoke of the
Temple work, and the beautiful influence
that she felt on her return home after work-
ing at the Temple.
	Sister Brown hoped we would attend to
our Temple work. She heard President
Snow say, that the one who did work for
the dead was a savior to that person, and it
would certainly be recorded to his or her
credit.
	A sister (name unknown) spoke of Tem-
ple work. Said if we worked for the dead
we would be blest.
	Sister Mary Morris said, “It seems just
as good to me to work for my neighbor as
for myself,” referring to Temple work.
	Sister Martha Morris bore her testimony
and Sister Stevenson made a few closing
remarks about the necessity of having the
annual meetings continued.
	The congregation joined in singing the
Doxology, and prayer was offered by Sister
Annie T. Hyde.
ANNIE T. HYDE, Sec. pro tem.


MISS ABBIE EASTMAN, of Phœnix
Ariz., inherited five copper claims three
years ago, and has been working ever since
in California and Arizona to earn the money
required to hold them until they could be
developed and sold. She has always been
obliged to earn her own bread, but with the
sight of a fortune before her she worked
harder than ever. She persevered, and
lately sold one claim for $45,000.
	MRS. ADMIRAL DEWEY startled Wash-
ington society by announcing that women
as well as men would be welcome at her
New Year’s reception. This is the revival of
a custom that was abolished in Cleveland’s
a dministration[-]


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


I FOLLOW THEE.
I follow thee, although thou canst not hear
My footsteps stealing soft beside thine own;
Though all the day and all the night-time lone,
Groping, I see thee, counting it good cheer
If I may walk beside thee, tho’ unknown,
Till love to love responsive shall be grown
And I may touch thy hand and feel thee near.
I follow thee I let my spirit steal
All palpitant and wistful unto thee;
I ask no more but that I still may feel
Thy wide, sweet presence, moving graciously;
I follow thee, and yearning, patient bide
Till thou shalt turn and see me at thy side.
ETHEL ALLEN MURPHY.


CARRARA.
A ship unloading, busy sea-brown hands
Are lifting blocks of marble, one by one;
Quarried where fair Carrara’s golden sands
And purple hills lie sleeping in the sun.
The workman earned his share of daily bread;
The merchant counted up his gains in gold;
“What unwrought statues there,” the artist said,
“What lines of beauty, rare and manifold!
“What grace and glory from these blocks shall
spring!
What light shall clothe them in a little while!
This shapeless block in beauty blossoming,
Shall breathe high thoughts or wear an angel’s
smile.”
O Lives that in a martyr-army stand,
May God’s sweet message come to you and me.
We are the marble, His the Sculptor-Hand
That fashions us for all eternity.
We only feel the pain His chastenings give;
The sharp incisions only can we see.
And He alone, by whom we move and live,
He sees the hidden glory that shall be.
He sees the glory without spot or stain,
The spiritual beauty all unpriced;
And in His love He sends each stroke of pain
To make us like our dear Lord, Jesus Christ.
O, God of Love, give us calm pitying eyes
And sweet patience. Let us also see
The glory and the grace that underlies
Each shapeless mass that waits a touch from Thee.
ANONYMOUS.


ELIZABETH CADY STANTON.
A great and good Elizabeth
Was Hungary’s royal saint,
For whom rare miracles were wrought,
That pious poets paint.
She fought with nature and her heart,
For many weary years,
Resigning ease and joy and love,
For penances and tears.
Once, from excessive prayers and fasts,
Sorrow and scourging sore,
She was about to faint and sink
Upon her chapel’s floor,
When, lo! the water that she craved.
Was by some power divine,
Changed on her trembling, pallid lips.
To good old Tokay wine.
She prayed and wept herself to death,
This hapless saint, Elizabeth!
Another great Elizabeth,
I sing in greater times,
Who merits greater tributes far,
Than these, my halting rhymes.
Here life a noble poem is
in canto eighty-four—
A record of long warfare waged,
And victories galore—
Not hers her own pure flesh to scourge,
But folly, vice and wrong;
At peace with Nature, loving love,
Home, comfort, mirth and song,
She faints not, though the day seems drear,
And hard, and far the goal,
’Tis we who sink and need the cheer,
The good wine of her soul,
Her earnest, royal soul[-]
Still loving life, not fearing death,
God save our Queen Elizabeth!
GRACE GREENWOOD.
November 12, 1899.


[Column 1]
A WOMAN MISSIONARY.

	[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands
1850.]
		(Continued.)
	Today I called the native sisters together
to instruct them in their religious duties.
Ellen acted as interpreter, and succeeded
remarkably well. This she has been able
to do for several months. The sisters spoke
in turns, each expressing a desire that I
might soon have a knowledge of their
language, and speak with my own lips
directly to them. I shall soon make an
attempt to do so, and having their faith
and prayers, shall be certain of success.
	October 6th. Memorable day ! Confer-
ence convenes today in Salt Lake City. The
remembrance creates deep sensations in my
mind. I sigh to be there, although I do
not wish to leave my labors here. Before
another month rolls around “Paraita” will
be gone to Ravavai, then we shall be still
more lonely. How much it would animate
us could we see business going on; see men
plowing, sowing grain, driving teams;
have the sound of axes and hammering;
see houses building. But here monotony
reigns supremely. All I hear is the sound
of mallets making native cloth.
	On the 8th, (Wednesday) a party of us
went on a pleasure excursion to some small
islands five miles distant. We landed on
the largest, nineteen souls in all. It is a
beautiful island covered all over with tama-
na and cocoanut trees. The soil is fine,
white sand, which contrasts beautifully
with the green trees. I walked around the
Island, picked up shells and some fine
specimens of coral. The men caught fish,
made an oven in the ground and cooked us
a meal consisting of fruits and vegetables
growing on the Island. The men threw
up a shelter for us with brush and leaves,
under which we spread our bedding and
slept well through the night. The children
explored the Island thoroughly, climbed the
trees, made new discoveries in shrubbery
and flowers. We sailed home with a
pleasant breeze, and passed the village
where the workmen were engaged building
a schooner. They saluted us with loud
voices, "Iu ora nu otou to have ra mai,"
(peace be to you in returning home.)
	I sometimes walk to the opposite village
where the ship is building; distance five
miles. I can walk under the shade of trees
the whole way, sit down in a cooling shade,
rest myself and renew my jonrney. Thus
we resort to changes, and trifling though
they be, they serve to enliven the mind.
	Mr. Pratt preaches regularly in the
native tongue, which I can now under-
stand tolerably well. Baptisms occur
nearly every Sabbath. I wrote an address
to be read in a woman’s meeting, which Mr.
Grouard translated into the Tahitian for me.
They seemed greatly to admire it. I read
to them the 12th chapter of Isiaah, con-
taining, proof of the origin of the Book of
Mormon. Ellen explained and commented
upon it. They inquired if the ancient
Nephites were Europeans? I told them
they were the ancient fathers of the Tahi-
tians. At this they appeared greatly inter-
ested, and wished to learn more about the
book. No organ of their craniums is more
prominent than marvelousness.
	October 19th. Sabbath it is with us, but
not with those at home. One day is lost in
coming here via Cape Horne, one gained by
coming via Cape Good Hope. The natives
have a superstition that if they should fail

[Column 2]
to keep the right Sabbath someone of their
number would sicken and die. Yesterday
Captain Johnson’s vessel sailed. It has
been lying here several days. We were
hoping it would bring us letters from home,
but only one came to us from Tahiti, writ-
ten by Elder Dunn, who is now nearly
ready to embark for America. He is in
very poor health, and we feel in doubt
about his reaching home, but pray earnest-
ly that he may. So our dear little Mary
must leave us with her step-father, Captain
J.   Seven months has she been a visitant
in our family, and by her modest behavior
has endeared herself to us all, more especial-
ly Frances, who has been her constant
teacher. As she has never been fond of
children, her attachment to Mary, we hope,
may effect a change in her. So submissive
and obedient has she ever been to Frances,
she cannot avoid feeling deep sympathy for
her.
	The 24th. Today arrived a schooner
from the Chain Islands, Captain Hervey.
The king of Ravaivai was on board. He
informed us that the missionary house
built of late has been thrown down in a
gale of wind. Last evening native dancing
was heard, much to our annoyance. Their
music consisted of two drums, a small
instrument made of a weed which grows
here, making a low, sweet sound. Captain
Hervey and Mr. Bourne attended the exer-
cises, drank too freely, quarelled and fought.
Today they had a court over the affray.
Such is the example white men set before
the natives.
	The 27th day. Set sail for Raivavai
with a fine breeze; eighty natives on board.
The air being pleasant, we all slept on
deck. Some of the Island women had
never been so far from home before. They
were very sea sick, although all their lives
accustomed to go out in open boats.
	The second day at ten o’clock we made
the island. It is more mountainous than
Tahiti. The small town near where we
landed presents a lively appearance from
the sea. The house of worship looks like a
city hotel, with white walls and green
window blinds. A long row of ito trees
standing in front, small trunks and large
tops, gives the town the appearance of an
Eastern village at a distance, but as you
draw near the scene changes. All around
the “Fere bare ra” the place is thoroughly
clean. A wide stone pavement surrounds
it. The inside work displays taste and
ingenuity. The pulpit is built very high
and the stairs leading up to it are painted
green. As I entered the building, I thought
how much the poor people had striven to
imitate civilized life. The seats are made
of dark wood the color of mahogany, with
a great variety of carved work upon them.
	Queen Rupah, from Tupuin, came with
ns. She brought her fine clotting given
her by the French merchants. She dressed
very handsomely to go on shore, but would
not wear shoes. The king of the Island
appears a kind, good man, is full in the
faith that his people will receive the Gospel.
Those belonging to the English church
commenced looking in their Bibles to forti-
fy themselves with arguments, should any
attack be made against, their doctrines. The
king built a house, intending to have Paraita
and his family remain there, but its being
destroyed by a wind storm was a premoni-
tion to us that it was not the will of the
Lord that we should make a lengthy stay
there.
		(To be continued.)


Woman's Exponent.
EMMELINE D. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.
Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah,
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months.
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1900.


POLYGAMY AND UNLAWFUL
COHABITAION.
	From the reading of the various editorials
and articles of the public press it is evident
that there is much misconstruction and mis-
understanding as to the present attitude of
our Church respecting the subjects of poly-
gamy and unlawful cohabitation; and be-
lieving that many good and conscientious
people have been misled and much adverse
criticism occasioned thereby, I feel it but
just to both “Mormons” and non-“Mor-
mons” to state that, in accordance with the
manifesto of the late President Wilford
Woodruff, dated September 25, 1890,
which was presented and unanimously ac-
cepted by our General Conference on the
6th of October, 1890, the Church has
positively abandoned the practice of poly-
gamy, or the solemnization of plural mar-
riages, in this and every other State, and
that no officer or member thereof has any
authority whatever to perform a plural
marriage or enter into any such relation.
Nor does the Church advise or encourage
unlawful cohabitation on the part of any of
its members. If, therefore, any member
disobeys the law, either as to polygamy or
unlawful cohabitation, he must bear his
own burden: or in other words, be answer-
able to the tribunal of the land for his own
action pertaining thereto.
	With a sincere desire that the position of
our Church as to polygamy and unlawful
cohabitation may be better understood, and
with best wishes for the welfare and happi-
ness of all, this statement is made, and is
respectfully commended to the careful con-
sideration of the public generally.
				LORENZO SNOW.
President of the Church of Jesus Christ of
		Latter-day Saints.
	Salt Lake City, January 8, 1900.


[Column 1]
THE NEW YEAR AND THE NEW
CENTURY.
	In entering upon a new year one always
tries to cast off the old sorrows or troubles,
and look forward with bright anticipation
to the near future, hoping good will come,
prosperity, health and such measure of
happiness as is reasonable to expect.
	America, or the United States at least,
seems in the beginning of this year (said to
be the closing of the nineteenth century,
although there are differences of opinion
among “the wise men” to be in a rathe

[Column 2]
prosperous stage of activity, as compared
with many, indeed most other countries.
So far the people of these United States have
reason to be thankful and to congratulate
themselves, that conditions are so favorable
for future peace and prosperity; yet one
never knows what may transpire. Still it
is right to enjoy the blessings which are
vouchsafed by an Alwise Providence and
trust our Heavenly Father for the future, if
we ourselves comply with His laws and
live by His precepts.
	When one takes into consideration the
calamities that visit the inhabitants of the
earth from time to time, it does seem one
cannot be too careful in keeping all the
commandments God has given to the chil-
dren of men, line upon line and precept
upon precept. The Savior’s injunction,
“Be ye also ready,” is one to be thought of
by all. It is well that time is divided and
subdivided, else when one would stop and
consider anything might be a question in
this day of hurry, worry, bustle and ex-
citement. Holidays are good for the peo-
ple for many reasons. The wish for “a hap-
py new year,” that passes from one to
another, although it is done almost mechan-
cally, is a very good custom. It sets one
to thinking, though the thoughts are often
reminiscent.
	The past year has been one of great sig-
ficance and fraught with much importance
to the world, and also to our own country.
The Peace Conference at The Hague marks
a great change in affairs of the world, al-
though its direct effects are not so tangible
as to satisfy those who looked for im-
mediate arbitration; yet it is a step in the
direction of an era of better things.
	The terrible Transvaal war between
South Africa and Great Britain, is certainly
one of the greatest events in the history of
modern times. The death rate among the
British officers is something appalling. One
would think there was need of peace leagues
and every other kind of organization and
influence, brought to bear in favor of put-
ting a stop to “man’s inhumanity to man.”
Would that the time had come to
	Let those who make the quarrels, be the only
		ones who fight,
as the old song says. One hardly likes to
venture further than generalities in speak-
ing of these matters. That the Lord will
come out of his hiding place and vex the
nations we read in the scriptures, and we
know assuredly that the prophecies of both
ancient and modern prophets will come to
pass; therefore it behooves all in the open-
ing of a new year, as well as at all other
times, to look well to our own conduct, and
not judge others, but leave them in the
hands of the Lord, who will do unto all as
seemeth good in His sight, and who knows
all men’s lives and conditions and the in-
ward promptings of their hearts.
	The past has been a wonderful year for
progress in many lines, and when one con-
templates the century as a whole, the ad-
vancement is greater than any previous
one of which we, who live today, have any
knowledge. In art, in science, (many of .
them) in literature, in inventions, in dis-
coveries, in mental and spiritual develop-
ment and awakening, what marvels have
been wrought!
	The Latter-day Saints as a people have
every reason to rejoice in the achievements
of this glorious century. The Lord has
spoken from the heavens and through his
servants has established a work on the

[Column 3]
earth never to be thrown down, or given to
another people. There is so much to do in
this world of ours, that we have no strength
to waste in repining. We must be active
and watchful and try to help on the world’s
great work, as well as do our individual
own. Selfishness is not the spirit of the
Gospel, but consecration to God and our
fellowmen. To lift up humanity should
be our aim and prayer. Earnestness in
any noble cause will effect much in what-
ever is undertaken with the right motive.
	The women of our people (the Latter-day
Saints) have much to do in rolling on the
world’s great work. Some have already
been set apart to preach the Gospel in
foreign lands, and that many more will be,
there is little doubt. The world is making
great progress, and women are gradually
moving forward into broader fields and be-
coming more and more consecrated in their
lives to the higher spiritual work. When
one calls to mind the work our sisters are
doing in the several woman’s Church or-
ganizations and the Sabbath School, the
ministering in the Temples that have been
built and dedicated to the work of the Lord,
for the living and for the dead, besides the
home teaching, it is grand to contemplate.
Certainly the days are filled up in useful-
ness.
	Whatever may transpire, let the women
of Zion at least be prepared by faith, hope
and trust, and by living daily lives dedi-
cated to the noblest, holiest and purest
motives and impulses, that they may draw
from the fountains of inspiration, wisdom,
knowledge and understanding, and be able
to impart to those less highly, favored, prin-
ciples of truth that shall encourage the
weary and comfort the disconsolate, and
teach those ignorant of divine truths the
way of eternal life, that the daughters of
Zion may have their lamps always trimmed
and burning, not only to light their own
way, but to show others who walk in dark-
ness the true path, if they will but follow
after righteousness.
	The past year has been rich in blessings
for the women of Zion. They have had
great opportunities vouchsafed to them of
enlightenment in many ways, and avenues
have been opened that were scarcely
thought possible—and yet it has all been
in the fulfillment of prophecy, which is a
testimony to the faithful that this is the
work of the Lord, and should cause the
Saints to become mindful of Him and ac-
knowledge His hand in all things, in ad-
versity as well as in prosperity, that He
may not forget them in the hour of trouble
or sorrow. Strive to live by the Golden
Rule and love our neighbor as ourselves,
and try to lift up our fellowmen. One may
easily close one’s exhortation with the
scriptural quotation which covers itr a few
words the present and future:
	Wherefore be ye steadfast, immovable, always
abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as
ye know that your labor is not in vain in the
Lord.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	A Happy New Year to all the patrons
and friends of the Woman’s Exponent,
and may it prove a prosperous one to them
and the dear little paper that has been the
champion of the woman’s cause and for
humanity ever since it was established.
May its subscriptions be doubled during
the year Nineteen Hundred.


[Column 1]
	THE Stake Secretaries of the Relief Soci-
ety of the several Stakes of Zion are hereby
reminded that a yearly report is expected of
them for the general report, from the begin-
ning of the year 1899, January 1st to Dec-
ember 31st, and that the report must be
in as early as February 15, so that the
General Secretary may have sufficent time
to make a correct report for the April Con-
ference. All branches of the Relief Society
not included in Stakes are also requested
to send a full report for the year, that a
complete report of the entire society may
be made, including branches, whether
in the United States or other countries, or
upon the islands of the sea. Address Mrs.
E. B. Wells, Secretary, Templeton, Salt
Lake City, Utah.
	THE Seventh Ward Relief Society held
its annual meeting on Thursday, January
4, at 2 p. m. at the commodious home of
Sister Rigby, as it was not convenient to
have the use of the meeting house on that
day, but the rooms were exceedingly com-
fortable. The president, Mary Alice Lam-
bert, stated in her remarks that it was just
thirty-two years that day since the organ-
ization in that ward, and in that time there
had been four presidents. Spoke of the
good work that had been accomplished and
the many ways in which help had been
given. It was a most creditable showing.
It is the intention of the society to have a
house in which to hold meetings, the soci-
ety at present is very prosperous. An ex-
cellent spirit was manifest, and the report
was a very good one. Visitors present
were Sisters E. B. Wells, E. J. Stevenson
and Counselor Annie T. Hyde, of the Stake
Board. President Horne was not able to
come out as the day was inclement. A
sumptuous repast was served at the close of
the meeting, and social conversation, ex-
change of ideas and New Year’s greetings
were general. Such unions help to increase
the interest of the members and are always
pleasant occasions.
	The Woman’s Century Calendar, edited by
Carrie Chapman Catt, and published by N.
A. W. S. A., New York City, is a unique
little book of eighty pages, and contains
much valuable information on the woman
question and excellent photogravures of
some of the prominent women who have
been national leaders along the several
lines of progressive work, Susan B. Anth-
ony, Lucretia Mott, Elizabeth Cady Stan-
ton, Dr. Elizabeth Blackwell, Rev.
Antoinette Brown Blackwell, Lucy Stone,
Frances Willard, Julia Ward Howe, Har-
riet Beecher Stowe, Mary A. Livermore,
Clara Barton and Belle A. Mansfield. The
book is well worth its price, 25 cents, and
every woman who wishes to help
forward the movement for equality, should
purchase a copy. The motto on the cover
is most appropriate, “Not new women, but
new conditions.” The calendar is quite hand-
some, and very suitable to send to those
needing such information on the question
of equal rights and progression.
	Sketches of Missionary Life, is the title of
a very neat little book edited by Edwin F.
Parry, who is able to speak understanding-
iy upon this subject from experience in his
own field of labor. Elder Parry was re-
cently associated in the presidency of the
European mission of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, with Rulon S.
Wells as president. The book has one
hundred and forty-four pages and is divided

[Column 2]
into fifteen chapters, treating of the various
phases of an Elder’s life when preaching
the Gospel.—Character of men called, Temp-
tations, Providential aid, First Experiences
in the Field, Miraculous help from the
Lord, Experiences in holding meetings,
Friends raised up—and other equally im-
portant and interesting matters. The book
will undoubtedly be of great service to
young missionaries going forth to the
work of the ministry. The youth of Zion
will find this reading matter of a pure and
elevating character, calculated to inspire
faith in the Latter-day work, evidences of
the divinity of the mission of Joseph Smith,
the prophet. The marvelous way in which
men who trusted in the Lord have had their
prayers answered, the manifestations of
healing and the gift of understanding other
languages and being able to make people
of other tongues understand the Gospel by
the spirit thereof, are all clearly set forth in
this little book. Published and for sale at
George Q. Cannon & Sons Co., Main St.,
Salt Lake City.
	The Englishwoman’s Year Book, for 1900,
edited by Emily Janes, secretary to the
National Union of Women Workers of
Great Britain and Ireland, has been re-
ceived at this office and we are very glad to
acknowledge through our columns so wel-
come a gift, and to recommend it to the
public. The book contains three hundred
and fifty pages and is handsomely bound.
It contains information upon woman’s
work, societies and industries along all lines,
educational, industrial, political, literary,
artistic—whether cooperative, social or
individual. To women visiting Great
Britain such a book would be invaluable,
and to those interested in the work of wom-
en everywhere, it is a storehouse of in-
formation. An item or two in the preface
struck home very forcibly: “The collec-
tive conscience of society, ‘God’s secretary,’
as Milton called it, is awake as it never was
before.” At the close the editor concludes
with an Eastern proverb which she says
may serve as a motto for 1900: “By
patience and perseverance, and a bottle of
sweet oil, the snail at length reaches Jeru-
salem.” The editor deserves great credit
for the able manner in which the year book
is arranged, making it also a directory
wherein one can find the names and ad-
dresses of all the noted women who are en-
gaged in any great work or business, as
well as those who stand officially connected
with institutions. Everyone who rejoices
in the advancement of women must feel
proud of Miss Emily Janes’ success in mak-
ing the book such a valuable authority and
so comprehensive upon subjects of such
great importance to the women of the
world.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.  93


[Column 1]	
		R. S. REPORTS. 

	JOSEPA RELIEF SOCIETY.

   As some of our readers will perhaps re-
member, there was an article in the June
number of the EXPONENT, stating that we
had planted an acre of watermelons with a
view to selling them and using the pro-
ceeds to buy wheat and store up.
   Our melon patch did well and we sold
one hundred and six dollars worth of water-
melons, which you will see will greatly in-
crease our wheat.
   Then we made an experiment in seri-

[Column 2]
culture, raising twenty-three pounds of
cocoons of average quality, and have had
one of our young ladies learn the reeling,
so that we will be better prepared lor the
work another year.
   The Hawaiian sisters are very faithful in
the performance of any trust placed upon
them, and perform their duties in the Re-
lief Society promptly and cheerfully,
whether going out into the field to hoe or
water the melons, or to glean wheat, or
whatsoever they may be doing, sowing or
quilting or waiting on the sick. They al-
ways meet in time to sing a hymn and
then unite in prayer, asking the blessing of
the Lord upon the labor of their hands; and
the Lord does bless them and gives them
success in many ways, and I often think if
we were all more childlike and depended
more on the promised blessings than in our
own wisdom, we would be more happy and
contented.
   I will just mention that we said to the
boys, “I do not think there is one boy in
Josepa so mean that he would steal the
Relief Society melons,’’ and so far as we
know, not one has been stolen. For their
good behavior we gave a watermelon feast
to the whole colony, which was very much
appreciated by old and young.
   We are enjoying our usual good health, 
and a spirit of contentment prevails.
   With “Aloha” to all of our colabors, we
remain.
	Your sisters,
		EMILY G. CLUFF, Pres.,
		ELLEN HALLEMANU, Sec.
		
		WEBER STAKE.

   Minutes of the Relief Society conferenc[e]
of Weber Stake, held in the Third Ward
meeting house, December 14, 1899, at
10 o’clock a. m.
   Meeting was called to order by Counselor
Harriet Brown. After singing, prayer was
offered by Elder Stone. Singing, “Guide
us, O Thou Great Jehovah.” Minutes of
October conference read and approved.
   Sister Brown was pleased to meet with so
many sisters in conference. She knew we
all felt sad over the great bereavement of
our president, and realized that President
Richards would be greatly missed by the
Relief Society of Weber Stake. Prayed
the Lord would bless Sister Richards, that
she might be comforted. Desired all the
sisters to be humble that they might be
blest.
   President C. H. Middleton felt very much
interested in the society and was always 
pleased to meet with the sisters. He spoke
of the great bereavement of Sister Richards,
also of the great loss the death of President
Richards had brought to the Church. Asked
the Lord to bless the sisters, also Sister
Richards, that she might be comforted.
   Brother Woodward, president of the
San Francisco branch, spoke for a few
minutes on the good work of the Relief
Society.
   Testimonies were borne by Sisters C. E.
Driver, Mary Ann Ellis, Rosa Scowcroft, Rachel Burton and Frances Dance.
   Sister E. B. Wells, of Salt Lake City,
said she was very glad to meet with the
sisters. Spoke of her trip to England and
meeting with the sisters of the Relief Soci-
ety there. She deeply sympathized with
Sister Richards, and asked the Lord to
bless and comfort her. Prayed the Lord to
bless all the sisters.
   Singing, Doxology.   Benediction by


[Column 1]
President Middleton. Meeting adjourned
until two o’clock.
	Afternoon session opened by singing
“Our God we raise to Thee.” Prayer by
President Middleton. Singing, “Glorious
things are sung of Zion.”
	President Middleton spoke again to the
sisters for a few minutes. Said he had been
very much interested in what had been
said here today, and he was thankful that
we lived in these days of prophets, for he
had been acquainted with all. He loved
all the societies of the Church and enjoyed
visiting the same.
	Sister E. B. Wells was pleased to speak
in another Stake of Zion on the subject ot
her trip to England. She spoke also of her
coming into the Church and listening to
the Prophet Joseph, said he was the most
wonderful man she ever saw. She testified
of his divine mission and the great work he
established. Felt that the sisters did not
realize the importance of this society. Said
there were now thirty thousand women in
six hundred branches of the Relief Society.
Thought the teachers were very, important
persons, and should always be able to re-
port. Said she felt that Weber county was
a banner Stake, being organized twenty-
two years last July. Asked the sisters to
remember Sister Zina D. H. Young, Sister
Richards and Sister Smith in their prayers.
Thought we should all make an effort to
keep our young people in the faith. Al-
luded to the Temples and the future Tem-
ple that will be built in Jackson County.
Spoke of the good the young women were
doing in the missionary work, speaking out
doors, distributing tracts, etc. She spoke
also of the convention at Washington last
winter, and the question of voting against
the Robert’s Resolution. She then gave a
very pleasant account of her visit to the
Queen; said thirteen out of fifty-three dele-
gates from the United States were from
Utah.
	Counselor Harriet Brown felt that we
had been blest, and she rejoiced in the good
things we had heard but still we mourn
the loss of President Richards.
	Singing, “Lord dismiss us.” Benediction
by President Middleton. Conference ad-
journed for three months.
				C. E. DRIVER, Sec.
SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of the Salt Lake Stake was held in
the Assembly Hall, December 23, 1899.
	Present on the stand were President M. I.
Horne, Counselors Annie T. Hyde and
Clara C. Cannon, Presidents B. W. Smith
and Sarah J. Cannon, of the General Board,
Sister Julia C. Howe, one of the aids, also
Sisters Rachel R. Grant, Maria W. Wilcox
and E. J. Stevenson.
	As this was the anniversary of the birth
of the Prophet Joseph Smith, the exercises
were, in a great measure, commemorative
of that event.
	The roll call showed seventeen city
wards and eleven country wards represen-
ted. The conference coming at the holiday
season, and the weather being unfavorable,
prevented many from attending, and the
conference was not so well attended as
could have been desired.
	Conference opened by singing “We thank
Thee, O God, for a prophet.” Prayer by
Sister Julia C. Howe. Singing, “Our God
we raise to Thee.”
	President Horne spoke of the necessity of
order and punctuality in attending to our

[Column 2]
duties. She was sorry to see no more
present on this occasion, when, in addition
to our regular conference, we had met to do
honor to our Prophet. Spoke of the pro-
posed division of our Stake and said this
would be, perhaps, the last time we would
meet as a whole Stake, and wished to hear
expressions from the sisters in regard to the
matter of division. 
	The followihg sisters spoke on the sub-
ject: Sister Jensen, of Sandy; Sister Mary
A. Dixon, of Mountain Dell; Sister L. S.
Stevenson, of Forest Dale; Sister Sarah J.
Cannon, of Cannon Ward. All expressed
themselves as prepared to be satisfied with
the change, though in some instances it
would cause inconvenience.
	Sisters Bathsheba W. Smith and Rachel
R. Grant spoke of the divine mission of the
Prophet Joseph Smith and bore strong
testimonies of the same. Gave personal
reminiscences of his life, and their knowl-
edge of him.
	President Horne wanted the opinion of
the sisters in regard to holding our meet-
ings every three months. President Young
established this order and she felt like con-
tinuing it, unless the presiding brethren
advised us to hold our conference every six
months.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. Meet-
ing closed by singing the Doxology, and
benediction by Counselor Annie T. Hyde.
	Afternoon session opened with the sing-
ing of the hymn, “Hail to the prophet,”
by members of the Temple choir, under the
leadership of Elder C. J. Thomas.  Open-
ing prayer by Elder Samuel Richards.
Following, Brother Horace S. Ensign sang,
in a very effective manner, the beautiful
hymn, “The Seer.” Reading of the min-
utes of the afternoon session of the confer-
ence held September 2, 1899, accepted.
	President Horne felt that the sisters
should have made arrangements to attend
this commemoration of the birth of the
Prophet. They could make some sacrifices
for this special occasion. She had been
well acquainted with the Prophet, and had
entertained him at her home many times.
Related many incidents of an interesting
character in connection with these visits.
	Brother Samuel Richards spoke at some
length on the life and works of the Prophet
Joseph Smith. Told of some occasions on
which he spoke with such power and force
that every one could feel and know that he
was inspired by God. Brother Richards
spoke in a very interesting manner, and
claimed the closest attention from his
audience.
	Brother George D. Pyper sang, in a very
feeling manner, “The Holy City,” which
was much appreciated.
	Continuing, Brother Richards related
many personal experiences with the
Prophet, and said that he considered his
mission on earth second only to that of the
Savior, and, like the latter, he gave his life
at last for the truth’s sake.
	The Temple choir sang “Weep not, weep
not for me Zion.”
	President Angus M. Cannon offered an
apology for his late entrance. Another
meeting had detained him, and had he not
promised to attend, he would not have been
here, but would have been in bed, as he
was not feeling well. The impression made
by the Prophet on his youthful mind would
never be forgotten. He was truly a prophet
of the Lord, and Brigham Young followed,
fulfilling his part, as did also John Taylor
and Wilford Woodruff. “May the bless-

[Column 3]
ings of the Lord be with us all, with Sister
Horne, your president. This may be the
last time we will meet all together as one
Stake, for by the 1st of February there may
be two or three Stakes formed from what
was originally the Salt Lake Stake. And
thus Zion is growing, and the Lord’s will
be done.”
	Sister Lula Greene Richards felt that she
would be doing an injustice to her feelings
and her conscience if she did not accept the
invitation given her by Sister Horne to
testify to the divine calling of Joseph Smith;
and she knew, as had been stated, that
none stood between him and God, except
the Savior. “I hope I shall never be afraid
to bear this testimony before all the world.”
	Conference adjourned until the first
Saturday in March. After singing, bene-
diction was offered by President Angus M.
Cannon.
		AUGUSTA W. GRANT, Sec. 
HAWAIIAN MISSION.
	The semi-annual conference of the Relief
Society of the Hawaiian mission met in the
Laie meeting house, Saturday morning,
October 7, 1899, President Alice R. Wool-
ley presiding.
	The meeting commenced by singing,
“How firm a foundation.” Prayer by Sister
Luukia Pono. Continued by singing, “O,
my Father.” Minutes of the previous
April conference were read and accepted.
	President Alice R. Woolley, the first
speaker, was pleased to meet again in our
Relief Society conference. She was glad
to labor in the work of God, and knew we
had received the true Gospel and the true
light, whereby we can work out for our-
selves eternal life. Spoke of the necessity
of attending the Relief Society and the
benefits gained thereby. Exhorted the
sisters to take care of the poor and needy
among them, for that is the true work of
the Relief Society. The study of the Gos-
pel should also be carried on in the meet-
ings, and we should live humble and
prayerful lives at all times. Asked God to
bless us all while we were assembled to-
gether, that we might have a time of re-
joicing.
	Sister Kai Kaimiawa reported Laie society
and gave a brief sketch of the work since
its organization.
	Sister Kamopama Wahilani reported
Awaiolimu society to be in a prosperous
condition. Said they study the Gospel,
take care of the poor and assist the needy,
and also take care of the dead. Spoke of
giving alms, and referred to the 6th chapter
of Mathew on the subject.
	Sister Laie Broad reported her mission-
ary labors in Maui in connection with Sister
Jennie Musser. Said the majority of the
branches are in a good, condition, most of
them anxious to carry on the work that is
resting upon them. She was thankful she
had been chosen to labor for God and His
cause.
	Sister Jennie P. Musser felt to sustain
the former speaker in what she had re-
ported. She had enjoyed a good time in
her labors and had wanted for nothing.
Was proud to have the privilege of preach-
ing the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and exhort-
ed all to be faithful and keep the com-
mandments of God.
	Duet, by Misses Hattie Kekuku and
Annie Apua.
	An essay on Relief Society work was.
then read by Sister Alice Smith.


Singing, “Hail to the brightness of
Zion’s glad morning.’’    Prayer by Sister
Kamahuilani.
	Afternoon session.  Meeting opened by
singing  “Praise to the man who communed
with Jehovah.’’    Prayer by Sister Ruth
Kauhini.   Continued by singing, “We
thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.’’
	Sister Poopu reported Kahana society.
Sister Rebecca Oliver gave a favorable
report of Waikiki Relief Society, and was
glad that she was a helper in the great
work.  Prayed that the Lord would assist
us to be faithful.
	Sister Kahopewai, of Maui, reported the
Waihee society.
	Sister Miliama Kekuku treated the sub-
ject of “Care of Children,’’ and said:   “It
is necessary that we teach our sons and
daughters those things that will help them
to live good and industrious lives. Teach
them the Gospel and those things that will
elevate them, and they will in after life
honor and bless us. We will be held re-
sponsible for the conduct of our children,
and if we fail to teach them the principles
of the Gospel, the condemnation will rest
upon our shoulders.”
	Sister Elizabeth C. Williams said she
was pleased to meet with the Saints in this
capacity, and desired to be directed by the
spirit of God that she might say something
that would be beneficial to all concerned.
Spoke of her labors on the Island of Kauai,
was pleased with the treatment they had
received, and knew that God had blessed-
them with His spirit while they were
laboring on that Island.   Was thankful to
have the privilege of preaching the Gospel.
Satan’s time is short, and he is diligent to
gain power over us.   But by diligence and
humility we can gain the assistance of the
spirit of the Lord to keep us in the line of
our duty; for “what value if we gain the
whole world and lose our own souls?”
Essay, “Salvation for the Dead,” by Sis-
tnr Kapili Luahiwa, of Waikiki.
	Sister Victoria Kakelaka spoke of her
labors on Kauai in connection with Sister
Elizabeth C. Williams.
	Sister Annie Kauluken gave a report of
her labors performed in North Hawaii and
Hilo Conference.   Spoke of how they had
gone among those not of our faith and
taught them the principles of the Gospel.
Referred to the blessings attached to the
observance of the Word of Wisdom.
	Sister Minerva Fernandez spoke upon
tithing and the counsel given by the ser-
vants of God on that subject in Zion, and
expressed her desire to fulfill the require-
ments of that law and gain the blessings
promised to all who obey this command-
ment.
	Sister Kealoha Reese, of Waikiki, sus-
tained the report given by Sister Kauluken
in regard to their labors on the Island of
Hawaii.    Said they had enjoyed their
labors and the spirit of the Lord had been
with them.
	Sister Ellen C. Cole said she was pleased
to meet in our conference again under such
favorable circumstances.   “We have heard
many precious things this day concerning
our work here on earth, so let us be faith-
ful and weary not in the good fight we
have begun.”   Spoke of the necessity of
parents teaching their children what is
right.
	Duet, by Sisters Margarett Fifield and
Jennie Musser.
Sister Margarett Fifield said, " I am
pleased to meet together again with you
this afternoon. It is the desire of every
soul to worship some Supreme being, but to
us is revealed the true Being.”    Urged all
to be faithful.
	President Alice R. Woolley said, “I am
pleased with what has been said during the
hours of this day, and my heart is filled
with gratitude to the Lord for His blessings
to us while we have been assembled to-
gether in our General Conference; and I
pray that He will assist us to remember the
things we have heard and aid us to put
them in practice, that we may prepare our-
selves for the great labor that will devolve
upon us while we sojourn here in mortality.
We should be liberal in donating, that we
may have more in the treasury to assist in
carrying on this great work we are engaged
n.
Singing,  “Do what is right.” Benedic-
tion by Elder Thomas Waddups.
                 Alice R. Woolley, Pres.
                 Elizabeth E. Williams, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Col
JOSEPA ITEMS. 
	The Josepa Relief Society has just been
bereft of one of its most prominent and in-
fluential members, Sister Makanoe Trous-
seau, who has only been in Utah one year
and a half, but by her energy and good
works she had become well established in
the colony and was ever a power for good.
	In the demise of Sister Makanoe the whole
colony have lost a mother and true friend.
She was ever found at the bedside of the
sick, and her association with Dr. Trous-
seau, of Honolulu, had given her much
useful information, and she was an efficient
and untiring helper in all the interests of
the community.
	The Relief Society desire to express their
appreciation of her good works, and would
exhort all to emulate her worthy example.
OBITUARY AND BIOGRAPHY.
	Sister Makanoe was the third child of Mr. and
Mrs. Joseph Koluhilaau, and was born in the
notable town of Hilo, Hawaii, May 11, 1856. She
attended the Hilo day school from the age of six
years till 1863, then removed to Kona with her
parents and there finished her school education in
1868. She lost her mother, and three years later
married Mr. Kaaipa, by whom she had three chil-
dren, two girls and one boy. Miss Hannah
Kaaipa is the oldest child, and has had the advan-
tage of a good education in the English as well as
the Hawaiian language,
	Makanoe separated from her first husband, and
one year afterwards became the wife of Dr. Trous-
seou, of Honolulu. He was the doctor of the royal
family, and she associated very much with them.
In 1884 she accompanied Queen Kapialani and
the ex-queen, Liliuakalani, on their extended
visits around the group of islands. She was quite
at home in the best society, being a noble, digni-
fied and lofty-minded woman. She was a great
lover of her country and its beautiful scenery.
She visited, the volcano several times with her
husband. She gave her children the advantage of a
good education. She was ever noted among her
associates for her intelligence and wisdom.
	In 1890 Makanoe with her two daughters united
themselves with the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, and, though she met with some
opposition from her friends, she never from that
time forth flinched or in any way neglected her
Church duties. She was the most influential
member of the Honolulu branch, and exercised a
presidency over the Relief Society of the different
Islands. She was chosen president of the Primary
Association in 1895, and still later she and her
daughter, Hannah, traveled for three months,
visiting the Relief Society and different women’s
organizations in our Church. On their return
they reported their labors at the semi-annual con-
ference at Laie (which she always attended) and
Makanoe and Kalwaianne were called on another
similar mission. Her daughter Hannah’s health
was impaired and she took her to the different
Islands to regain her health, and would fast and

[Column 2]
pray for her herself, as well as having her ad-
ministered to.
	Dr. Trousseau died and left Makanoe quite a
fortune. She helped all of her relatives and
donated liberally to the support of the mission. In
the spring of 1898, she, with her father, children
and other relatives, eleven in number, arrived in
Utah and settled in Josepa. That same year she
and her family entered into the Holy Temple and
did the work for themselves and many relatives;
and while in the city for that purpose she had the
pleasure of spending the day in the hotel with her
former friend and queen, Liliuahalani, and intro-
ducing the presidents of the Church and a few
of the sisters to the queen. Sister E. B. Wells,
Dr. E. R. Shipp, Emily G. Cluff and Miss Birdie
Jean Cluff were the only ladies admitted into the
queen’s apartments, aside from Makanoe and her
two daughters, Makanoe spent the whole time
trying to convince the queen of the great blessing
bestowed upon the Latter-day Saints, and obtained
permission from her to do the Temple work for
her relatives for many generations, in fact the
queen sent Makanoe a large book of genealogies
for that purpose, some of which she has done and
now the work falls on Hannah.
	In 1899 Makanoe accompanied President Joseph
F. Smith and party to the Sandwich Islands, at-
tended to her business and some ohurch duties,
and returned with them, only to redouble her
efforts in building up her chosen home. She has
attended all the General Conferences since she
came to Utah and spent weeks in the Tem-
ple.
	On November 30, 1899, she was taken very ill
with cerebral trouble, accompanied with a high
fever. She asked to be taken to Salt Lake City
that she might visit the Temple. Her relatives
and friends protested, as it was a hard journey in
cold weather, but she was determined to go and
they all finally consented, and her brother and
two daughters brought her in on December 7.
On the 8th she visited the House of the Lord and
received blessings that seemed to fully repay her
for her journey, and she seemed resigned and con-
tented and at 6 o’clock on the morning of the 9th,
she passed peacefully away surrounded by her
daughters, President H. H. Cluff and wife, and
Brother and Sister Worthington. All that kind
friends could do was done for her. President
Joseph F. Smith, ever her true friend, and many
of the Island missionaries mingled their sympathies
with the grief-stricken daughters.
	President Joseph E. Taylor, with his corps of
faithful sisters, arranged her in the pure linen and
laid her in a beautiful white casket, and laden
with love and beautiful flowers, she was carried to
her home, accompanied by President H. H. Cluff
and her daughters. Her brother, who had
brought her in, drove the remains home after
leaving the train.
	An impressive funeral was held at Josepa, Dec-
ember 12, at 2 p. m.; and though mourned and
much loved by all who knew her, we know she has
only gone before to receive the reward of the just.
Ellen Hallemanu, Sec.
Emily G. Cluff, Pres.


OBITUARY.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
To the memory of Sister Martha B. Taylor, who
	departed this life December 25, 1899.

	Whereas, in the dispensation of Providence, God
has seen fit to call home one of His daughters,
who labored long among her sisters as a counselor
in the Relief Society of the 21st ward of the Salt
Lake Stake of Zion, and 
	Whereas, she has proved herself an efficient
counselor and an effective member of the organiz-
ation in all its various duties, and was one whose
kindness and generosity of spirit brought sunshine
unto many hearts, helped the needy in time of
want, and was in her own life a fitting embodi-
ment of her constant prayer, that she might be
humble and united in all that is good, therefore, be
it
	RESOLVED, That we, her sisters, united with her
in the Relief Society work, do deeply feel her loss
in connection with her earnest effort and constant
work; nevertheless, in this our loss we feel to bow
to the mandates of an Alwise Creator, who doeth
all things well.
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
entered on the minutes of the 21st ward Relief
Society, and that a copy be sent to her family and
one to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
		ELIZA BARTON, President.
		FRANCES S. CASTLETON, Counselor.
		M. A. TUDDENHAM, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


U.W. P. C.
	The U. W. P. C. held its regular month- 
ly meeting at the home of Mrs. Emma
Jensen, Saturday, December 30, 1899. 
	The rooms were beautifully decorated for
the occasion. The president in the chair.
Opening prayer by Dr. Romania B. Pratt.
The secretary called the roll, members re-
sponding with original sentiments.
	The resignation of Maria Francis as 2nd
vice-president, and also as a member of the
club, was tendered, and accepted with re-
grets. Mrs. E. B. Wells nominated Emily
S. Richards as 2nd vice-president nomina- 
tion seconded by Dr. Pratt and others, and
carried unanimously.
	A communication was read in regard to
collecting reading matter for the soldiers in
the Philippines, and several ladies volun-
teered to respond to tbe call.
	A communication regarding the Kinder-
garten was read.
	Mrs Schiller reported from the Council
of Women’s Clubs, making definite explana-
tions, and several of the ladies expressed their
views on the subject. Mrs. Helen V.
Kimball was nominated delegate to the
Council.
	A motion was made that Mrs. Wells’
dea in regard to the Kindergarten—that it
was not possible to do what was suggested,
and that the school alluded to was strictly a
district school and should be supported by
those in that locality—was accepted and
carried.
	Mention was made of the handsome pic-
ture presented to the retiring president, Mrs.
Ella W. Hyde, at the October meeting.
	Mrs. Wells moved that the remainder of
the time be spent socially, and the motion
was carried. All were very highly enter-
tained examining the very fine collection of
curios gathered from all parts of the world
by the host and hostess, Mr. and Mrs.
Jensen.
	Sumptuous refreshments were afterwards
served, during which the following musical
program was given: Miss Lizzie Thomas
gave an instrumental selection entitled
“Hearts and Flowers.” “Love I have
Sighed to Rest Me,” was beautifully sung
by Miss Judith Anderson. Mrs. Anderson
and her daughter sang “Whispering Hope,”
and Mrs. Anderson sang “Midst Roses
Sweet.” Miss Minerva and Ella Jensen
and Miss Thomas sang “The Gipsy Coun-
tess,” and the program was concluded with
a song, “Flee as a Bird,” by Judith
Andersen.
			GRACE ANDERSON, Sec.


CHRISTMAS.

	Of all the old festivals that of Christmas
awakens the strongest and most heartfelt
associations. There is a tone of solemn and
sacred feeling that blends with our joys and
lifts the spirit to a state of hallowed and ele-
vated enjoyment. Christmas commemor-
ates the religion of peace and love. It has
been made the season for the gathering to-
gether of families and the drawing together
again of those bands of kindred hearts; of
calling back the children who have wan-
dered from the home, once more to gather
around the paternal hearth, there to grow
young again among the loving mementoes
of childhood.
	There is a charm about Christmas that
fills our hearts with mute but exquisite
delight. Our friendly sympathies are


aroused. We feel more sensibly the charm
of each other’s society, and are brought
more closely together by dependence upon
each other for enjoyment. Heart calleth
unto heart, and we draw our pleasures from
the deep wells of loving kindness which lie
in the quiet depth of our hearts.
	Christmas is a day upon which to rejoice
and be happy; a mirthful day, full of inno-
cent pleasures. It throws open every door
and unlocks every heart, and brings all to-
gether in one warm, generous flow of love
and kindness. The presents, the good
cheer, the tokens of love, the evergreen
distributed about the church or home, the
emblems of peace and gladness, all awaken
fond memories and kindle benevolent sym-
pathies.
	How delightedly we turn from the cares of life and mingle in the festivities of the
day! Every sound is full of melody and I
every countenance bright with smiles,
transmitting to others a supreme and ever
shining benevolence, which constitutes a
merry Christmas and reminds us of “Peace
on earth, good will to men.”
	SUSAN E. THOMPSON.


A National Council of Nurses has been
formed in Denmark, and has become affili-
ated with the International Council of
Nurses. The Danish nurses distinguished
themselves during the Greek war.
	MRS. HILDA MINER celebrated her one
hundredth birthday on December 29, at the
home of her daughter, Mrs. H. D. Miner,
in Fredonia, N. Y. She has seven grand-
children, nineteen great-grandchildren and
three great-great-grandchildren. She pos-
sesses a clear mind, good memory, excellent
health and a remarkably amiable and cheer-
ful disposition. Her friends think the pros-
pect bright for a continuance of her long
and useful life. There are two other per
sons in Chautauqua County who have lived
beyond their hundredth birthdays, Ambrose
R. Hanchett, of Mayville, who was a hun-
dred last November, and Mrs. Doty, of
Frewsburg, who is in her one hundredth
and fourth year.


[Column 1]
90% OF AMERICAN WOMEN
wash dishes three times each day. If you are one
of these, wear a pair of “Goodyear” Rubber
Gloves and always have soft, white hands. Sent
by mail postpaid, on receipt of $1.59 Agents
wanted. Address, M. O. Dept,
M. F. Reese Supply Co., Setauket, N. Y.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail.
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

[Column 2]
[logo of a shield]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD’S PICTORAL LINE

[to the right of a logo]
THE PEOPLE’S FAVORITE.

				Leave Salt Lake City
No. 6 	The “Fast Mail” for Chicago, St. Paul, St. 
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and 
		Park City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7 00 a.m.
No. 2 	The “Over and Limited” for Chicago, St.
		Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
		Denver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	11 45 a.m.
No. 4	The “Atlantic Express” for Chicago, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver. .	6 40 p.m.

				Arrive Salt Lake City.
No. 5 	The “Fast Mail” from Chicago, St. Louis, 
		Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and Park
		City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3 00 p.m.
No. 1 	The “Overland Limited” from Chicago, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver . .	3 00 p.m.
No. 3 	The ‘Pacific Express” from Chicago, St.
		Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
		Denver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3 30 p.m.

CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 Main St.		Telephone 665.
					H. M. CLAY, General Agent.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
		LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

OREGON SHORT LINE RAILROAD.

Time Table in Effect October 15, 1899.

	Trains will arrive and depart at Salt Lake City daily as fol-
lows:
					ARRIVE:
From Ogden, Chicago, Omaha, St. Louis and Denver,	3:30 a.m
From Ogden, Portland, Butte, Helena and San Fran-
	cisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	9:05 a.m.
*From Milford, Sanpete, Provo and Intermediate
	points . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	9:35 a.m.
From Ogden, Chicago, St. Louis, Omaha, Denver and
	San Francisco. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3:00 p.m.
**From Garfield Beach, Tooele and Terminus . . . . .	4:00 p.m.
From Tintic and Mercur. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	6:30 p.m.
Cache Valley Express, from Preston, Logan, Ogden
	and intermediate points . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	6:40 p.m.
From Ogden, Butte, San Francisco and intermediate
	points . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7:50 p.m.
					DEPART.
For Ogden, Omaha, Chicago, Denver, St. Louis and
	Cache Valley. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7:00 a.m.
For Tintic and Mercur. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7:55 a.m.
**For Garfield Beach, Tooele and Perminus . . . . . . .	7:45 a.m.
For Ogden, Butte, Helena, Portland and intermediate
	points. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	9:45 a.m.
For Ogden, Omaha, Chicago, Denver, St. Louis and
	San Francisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	11:45 a.m.
*For Provo, Sanpete, Milford and intermediate points	5:30 p.m.
For Ogden, Denver, Omaha, St. Louis and Chicago .	6:40 p.m.
For Ogden, Butte, San Francisco and intermediate
	points . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	8:45 p.m.
*Trains south of Juab do not run Sundays.
**Daily except Sunday.
City Ticket Office Under Masonic Hall, 2nd South St.
S.W. ECCLES,		D. E. BURLEY,
Gen. Traffic Manager.	Gen. P. and T. A.
		W. H. T, BANCROF
	Vice-President and Gen’l Manager


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 28.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1 & FEBRUARY 15, 1900.		Nos. 16 & 17.


CONTENTS.

Justice and Judgment. . . . . . . . . . . . . A. L. M,	97.
A Woman Missionary. . . . Mrs. Addison Pratt	98.
Mother’s Basket. . . . . . L. L. Greene Richards	99.
Brave Women of the Revolution, H. M. Fisher	99.
Anniversary Dinner. . . . . . . . . . . William Rex.	99.
By the Governor of the State of Utah—A
	Proclamation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	101.
Visit to Mexico. . . . . . . . . . Ann C. Woodbury	101.
Reorganization. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	101.
Inside the American Custom House. . . . . . . . . .
	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Henry Blackwell	101.
Mexico Conference Notes. . Sarah A. Clayson	102.
R. S. Reports. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	102.
Obituary. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	103.
From Path to Path. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Little Sister	103.
Lantern Lecture. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	104.
Notes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	104.

EDITORIAL—An Appeal to Utah Woman. . . . .	100.
	Editorial Notes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	100.
	Official Notice. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	101.
									
POETRY—Purity. . . . . . . . . . . Mabelle Biggart	97
	Little Things. . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ruth M. Fox	97
	Eighteen Hundred and Ninety-Nine . . . . . .
	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . L. D.  Alder	99.


PURITY. 
	Take my roses white today,
	Scatter them before thy way,
	Pure as crystal from above,
	Speak they of eternal love.

	Take my roses red today,
	Thus for me you have to say—
	Who shall share my heart’s best
		blood, 
	Who shall sail across death’s flood.

	On the cross of red and white, 
	Love and purity unite— 
	Pain and sorrow brought the right,
	Brilliant gems at dead of night.
				MABELLE BIGGART.
En route, Salt Lake City. Jan. 1900


LITTLE THINGS.

At the gates of heaven the angel stood,
Guarding the way to the pure and good,
And passing upon the lives and deeds,
Of those who would enter where it leads.

When a portly man, with form erect,
Looking very wise and circumspect,
Came walking along with lofty mien,
And an air which said, “I’ll go right in.”

He broke the silence, “How do you do,
Please open the gates till I pass through;
I’ve traveled far and would fain sit down,
I am anxious, too, to see my crown.”

How,” said the angel, “thy passport, please,
And name, ere I turn the golden keys;
What hast thou done—tis my right to know,—
While journeying on the sphere below?”

“My passport? Sir, you astonish me!
What I have done all the world could see;
And surely, angel, you know my name,
Why it was rung from the heights of fame.

It was written, too, in letters bold,
On towr’ing buildings in shining gold;
My voice was heard from pulpit, stage,
Indeed my sermons were quite the rage.

I was honored, too, in ev’ry land,
The great and the noble took my hand;
And many wonderful things I did,
My light, good angel, was never hid.

I could wield the pen in prose or rhyme,
My books were read in many a clime,
And in framing laws for humankind,
Mine was considered a master-mind.”

“But,” said the angel, “I prithee tell,
Didst attend to little things so well?”
“Tend to little things,” the great man cried,
“Why, angel, you would not me deride?


You see, mere trifles of little worth,
I left for mortals of common birth.”
Then the angel gravely shook his head,
“Thou hast gained thy just reward,” he said.

On the earth the stars small things appear,
But assume most wondrous position here;
And thou hast failed the crown to win;
Fare thee well, thou canst not enter in.

Then there came a timid little child,
With faltering steps and manner mild;
“Well,” said the angel, “What is thy name?
Didst thou, too, climb to the heights of fame?”

“O, gentle angel, alas,’tis true,
On earth my name was known to few,
But I struggled on the best I could,
Though I know I was not always good.

I could not do much, O angel pure,
For I was weak, but my trust was sure;
So I tried to do each little thing,
The Savior bade me. May I go in?”

He tenderly gazed on the little child,
And clasped her hand, as she wept and smiled;
“Dear little one, thou hast nobly striv’n,
To such as thou is the kingdom giv’n.”
						RUTH M. FOX.


[Column 1]
JUSTICE AND JUDGMENT.
	We find many in our travels who seem
surprised at the little justice that the out-
side world is willing to give to the Latter-
day Saints. Perhaps it is because they have 
been born under the covenant, consequent-
ly have not experienced what prejudice is
often imbibed through hearing false re-
ports. They have not experienced the
changes resulting from the purgation some
have to undergo before they become
grounded in the Gospel.
	Our missionaries who meet with people of
different nationalities and creeds, under-
stand, however, something about the in-
correct principles many are cradled in; people
who travel little and only meet with one
class of people do not always have the
charity and judgment of those who learn
much of human nature.
	My father was a man who had been a
Captain of a merchant ship, a man who had
mixed with many minds and many men;
and though he never heard the Gospel, he
always accepted a truth, even though it
sometimes cost him a great sacrifice to do
so. He always seemed hurt when any one
spoke sneeringly of Jesus, because of His
nationality. He also tried to impress his
children that if they wished to judge any
one, they should place themselves in the
position of the individual they were trying
to judge. Then if they understood his
temperament, and knew something of the
principles he had been taught, also if they
could find out his motives for doing those
certain things and knew of his circutu- 
stances, perhaps they might be capable of
judging.
	Isaiah tells in the 11th chapter that there
shall come forth out of the stem of Jesse,
one who shall not judge after the sight of
his eyes, neither reprove after the hearing
of his ears. If we could follow his example
how slow we should be to judge our neigh-
bors.
	Before judging we should ask ourselves,
these questions: What were their motives?

[Column 2]
What prompted them? Was it Satan who
had set a trap to try to make a man an
offender for a word? Then another ques-
tion would follow: Will you silently and
lovingly deliver that one if he has erred in
spirit or in understanding? Above all, let
us remember the Mormon creed, “Mind
your own business.”
	What a pity we are not as wise as Solo-
mon! Yet Solomon did not always act
wisely, but fell when he had departed
from the path of righteousness. How neces-
sary our words should be flavored with the
spirit of love. What slander would be
saved; unity would take the place of divi-
sion; our homes would be little heavens;
our fences so secure that no intruding
spirits could possibly enter, and evil spirits
would be bound to remain outside—nothing
could harm or hurt in Zion.
	Do we not look for this glorious time ot
come soon, when we are rejoicing and
praising God for the restoration of the Gos-
pel? On the other hand, when we are
weak, when clouds hover over us, and
when our Heavenly Father seems to with-
draw His spirit from us, what blunders we
make, how helpless we are. We wonder at
our carelessness and that we get ashamed
of ourselves. But if we always felt strong
and charitable, we would always be in our
watch-tower. We might have a little sym-
pathy for our neighbor, who has never
walked in the light.
	If we never had felt the pangs of poverty
could we feel, for the poor and destitute?
If we had been always healthy, we could
not advise the sick or speak a cheering
word to the sad. If we had never erred in
judgment, we could not warn our children
of the pitfalls that surround them. We
could feel no need of being watchful and
prayerful in these perilous times, but that
we know the enemy is busy trying to over-
come his people- We know he is sending
extra forces, for his time is short, and what
he does must be done quickly. We know
his dividing spirits are recruting, and find-
ing and spying out our weak places. We
need to stand shoulder to shoulder and
keep sacred the faults of our brothers and
sisters, as we would wish they would do
with us.
						A. L. M.


COUNCIL PRESS NOTICE.
	The National Council of Women will
hold no Annual Executive until the fall of
1900. This organization which reflects or
concentrates the work of so many national
and State organizations, is doing steady
work all the time. Its effort is for the
present concentrated on plans for a com-
mission for Cuba and Hawaii, to investi-
gate into the condition of women in those
Islands, and see wherein the women of the
United States can be helpful or co-operative
with them. These plans will be submitted
at the Executive in the fall and the com-
mission formally appointed.
	It is expected that the President of the
United States will endorse this commission.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
A WOMAN MISSIONARY.
	[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands,
1850.]
(Continued.)
	The people fitted up a room for our
reception, spread clean grass for a floor,
laid down mats, on which they laid our
food, and we ate heartily with thankful
hearts. Mr. Pratt began preaching and bap-
tizing. A council was held and it was fin-
ally decided that he should remain there
for a time, and his family return to Tubauai.
	We walked over the Island, went to two
other villages and found in each a respect
able house of worship, making three in
the distance of eight miles. The natives
hailed us as we passed and invited us in a
most cordial manner to stop and eat with
them. There was also a school house in
each village. Such is their reverence for
their prayer houses they would not pre-
sume to have them used for schoolrooms, of
whatever device or denomination. The
walls of their buildings are of the purest
white, plastered on either side with lime
burnt from coral rock. Near one public
building there was a sepulcher built of
hewn stone, where their former king was
buried. There were large squashes grow-
ing near the spot. I inquired if they were
good to eat. The man shook his head and
replied: “This is consecrated ground.
Should any one eat what grows upon it, he
would die of the same disease the old king
died with.”
	I went to see one old grave walled up
with stones. The roof had fallen in and
left the bones in sight. The skulls were
very large, the teeth sound, they had died
in full manhood. The grave was far from
my dwelling, and the natives have great
superstition about going near a place of that
kind, which accounts for its remaining un-
covered.
	We also went to see a large cave in the
mountains. Projecting rocks hung over
the mouth, leaving a small entrance just
large enough for one person to enter. There
was a damp atmosphere inside, and total
darkness. We found candlenuts (strong
thorns on the end of cocoanut leaves) made
a light, by which we were enabled to sur-
vey the inside. It had the appearance of
being a hundred feet long, and the interior
was as high as a three story building, per-
pendicular on one side, extending like the
roof of a house. Some of our company
found bones of human beings in the caves.
I retreated awe-stricken.
	On our return to the village we stopped
to see a new schooner nearly completed.
It was under cover, built in old English
style, with round ends. We climbed to ex-
amine her cabins. It appeared to be well
done. For ornamental work they carve;
pillars and posts in their dwellings are
finished in that style, thus showing to the
observer that they have natural taste and
ingenuity which ought to be cultivated.
	The room we occupied while on shore
was at the end of a building seventy feet in
length. The remainder was occupied by a
crowd of the people who bought food daily
and ate with their visitors from Tabauai.
They set up high post bedsteads for us, of
their own make, curtained round with
their kind of cloth for musquito bar, made
of the bark of the paper mulberry tree,
thin, fine and white.
	The head chief, or king, is a handsome
man, quite fair, with regular features. He
was converted to the Mormon faith on

[Column 2]
another island. He had never seen “Para-
ta” till he called on us on his return from
the Chain Islands. His wife is a complete
opposite, coarse and uncomely. She was
kind and attentive, though unpleasant to
look upon.
	The last Sabbath on that Island was a
solemn one. Five persons were baptized
and the communion and sacrament of the
Lord’s Supper commemorated. The
Tubauai friends were sad at the instance of
leaving their missionary behind. His dis-
course was impressive. His address to
them aroused their sympathies. In affect-
ing terms he committed his family to their
care and protection. Fati, the king, ex-
pressed his great joy that the missionary
would remain with him.
	The following morning great ceremonies
were in operation. The kind people loaded
us with food for the ship’s company on the
voyage home. They followed us in crowds
to the beach, expecting to hear a “wail-
ing” when “Paraita” and his family parted.
We told them it was not our practice to
weep aloud. Sixteen of our number re-
mained behind on that Island. These,
with those who had been baptized, would
form quite a branch of the Church. The
Governor of Taubuai was opposed to
leaving the missionary. He said he would
be more appreciated in his own Island.
	We had a fair wind home and made the
voyage in less than twenty-four hours.
Found three schooners lying in the harbor.
Captain Johnson’s was one, and we had the
pleasure of again seeing our dear little
Mary. Though we were all happy to see
her, we could not help feeling sorrowful to
see her in charge of a mother incapable of
training her properly, and a stepfather
addicted to intemperance.
	As we hove in sight of our Island we saw
a crowd of people standing on the beach to
watch the approach of our vessel. Our
youngest daughter, Ann Louisa, whom we
had left at home with her Aunt Crosby,
stood with the rest to welcome us.
	Captain Grouard immediately put in
freight for Tahiti. The boy, Hiram E. W.
Clark, who came with us from Salt Lake
City, went with the captain on this voyage,
to learn a little of a sailor’s life.
	The natives made a great feast on our
return. We tried to be cheerful to console
them for leaving their teacher in Ravaivai.
The schooners all sailed and left us alone
with our native friends, who showed us
great kindness.
	The 10th day of November, 1851. This
is my birthday. Forty-nine years have I
lived. How few attain to that age in com-
parison to those who come short of it.
What a scene to look back upon! Had I
known in my youthful days what I had to
pass through, how faint and feeble my
heart would have been when the trials as-
sailed me. They were wisely hidden from
me. Often in my youth did a presenti-
ment of a fearful future come before me and
seem to warn me to beware of taking steps
to hasten on my destiny. But it was writ-
ten in the book of fate, and therein ’twas
written that I had much to suffer for the
Gospel’s sake. I have said with Job, “The
things which I dreaded came upon me.”
I have endeavored to bear them patiently,
and wherein I have failed I look to heaven
for pardon. I am not amenable to man,
neither will I suffer man to judge me. My
soul has seen travail, and dark waters have
murmured around me and floods of sorrow
have arisen mountains high and burst upon

[Column 3]
my head. Hunger, cold and nakedness
have stared me in the face. Pain of body
and agony of mind, false friends have beset
me and secret griefs have fastened their
venom on my heart and threatened to
loosen the chords of life. But this glorious
Gospel came and the light of truth dawned
upon my saddened heart and caused me to
sing for joy. Then alll my sorrows were
forgotten.
	Strong confidence in God has enabled me
to triumph in a great measure over every
calamity, and thus day by day I thank
Him that I have lived to see a glorious
work commenced on the earth, although it
has introduced me into a thorny path where
my feet have been goaded to blood. Christ
walked therein before me, and the Prophet
Joseph drank deep of the bitter cup in his
life, and died by the hands of wicked men
in a state that boasts of religious freedom.
Oh, Illinois, of you will it be required!
	In the midst of grief I have joys. Afflicted,
but not in despair. Knowledge of the 
truth is now an anchor to my soul. I look
for joy in the future to equalize all I have
suffered since the fulness of the everlasting
Gospel has made me a pilgrim and a
stranger, far away from my kindred and
country.
	This morning I went to Mr. Layton’s,
who has a Tahitian wife, and she knows
nothing about housekeeping. A young
girl lives with them who assists in the
cooking department. I was very anxious
to give her some instructions in the system
of cleaning house and keeping it in order.
I introduced the subject in a plausible man-
ner, so as not to give offense. The young
girl readily acquiesced, seeming to believe
it would be a nice affair to know how to
keep house like “mau tamahine papa,”
(foreign girls.) It was astonishing the
amount of rubbish we hoed out of one
room. Then a fire in the door yard complet-
ly revolutionized the premises. After this,
Frances, our second daughter, proposed
occupying the room, teaching two little
boys, and further instructing the girl in
rules pertaining to every day life.
	November 12th Mr. Layton had a
daughter born. There was great rejoicing
among the relatives, it being the first girl
in the family. According to their custom,
they would have it wrapped in a square
piece of cloth. I speedily made a suit,
dressed it in our fashion and gave the child
my name, Louisa. All seemed delighted,
and called it a “tamahine papa.”
	Ellen is an excellent interpreter, and I
am also advancing fast in a knowledge of
the language. I met with a few grown
persons for the purpose of reading the
scriptures. They had many questions to
ask in reference to some passages. I
attempted in my own way to explain, and
really was surprised myself at my success.
All present seemed highly gratified. My
subject was baptism for the dead, in which
they manifest a deep interest.
	Little do we know what we can do till
we make a thorough trial. Past the meri-
dian of life I learned a new language. 
(To be continued.)


MRS. FRANCES A. MORTON has been
appointed Superintendent of the Reforma-
tory Prison for Women at Sherborn, Mass.
Mrs. Morton has been in charge of the in-
stitution since the death of Mrs. Ellen C.
Johnson, and had previously served as
deputy superintendent.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EIGHTEEN HUNDRED AND
NINETY-NINE. 

The old year lies a-dying, 
	Cold winter winds are sighing,
		Dark clouds are quickly flying,
			Round the world to night.

Dim, the lamp is burning low,
	Twilight flames and flickers so,
		While the shadows come and go,
			Through the quiet room.

Good bye, Old Year, you’ve been kind,
	’Mid leaves and flowers joy I find,
		Closely ’round my path entwined;
			Year, good bye, tonight.

Gone for aye beyond recall,
	Like the flut’ring leaves that fall, 
		At the early Autumn’s call,
			On the earth’s cold breast.

Solemn the bells ring tonight,
	Telling of Time’s rapid flight,
		Tell, too, of darkness and light, 
			O’er all the wide world.

Can they hush the widow’s cry?
	Groans where thick the bullets fly?
		Carnage where the soldiers die?
			Year, goodbye, goodbye.

Trails of blood you leave behind,
	’Gainst the weak the strong unkind,
		’Gainst the Right, the world combined,
			Man oppressed by man.

Tears fall as you pass away,
	New Year bring a better day,
		When Peace shall the nations sway,
			And Christ come to reign.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.
Sittingbourne, Dec. 31, 1890.


MOTHER’S BASKET.
Babies and books. Women and work, 
	There is room in this world for us all.
The sunbeams that dance and the shadows which
		lurk, 
	All answer to nature’s call.

Nature requires both sunshine and storm,
	So we’ll shrink not from heat nor from cold;
But cheerfully, lovingly strive to perform
	All the work that our baskets hold.

A LAW OF NATURE.
	Every life needs some diversity. Many
mothers, home-workers, are apt to allow 
their time and their minds to be entirely
occupied with the one, all-absorbing theme;
to run too exclusively in the one, never
ending channel. Thus they injure, instead
of gaining best results for their dearest pur-
poses in life.
	An intelligent farmer calls attention to
the fact that “while certain forms of plant
and animal life gravitate toward certain
localities most favorable for their propaga-
tion and development, still, never, under
any circumstance, does such form of life
ever exclusively occupy such territory. A
square rod of native prairie will give a
dozen varieties of grass; one acre of wood-
land, a score of varieties of forest growth; a
small stream of water, a hundred types of
aquatic life, all forms of life held within
proper bounds of some sort.
	“Man ignorantly violates this law and
grows too much wheat, and the rust and
the chinch bug takes it; too many hogs,
and the cholera sweeps them off; too many
hops, and the louse ruins his yard; too
many peaches, and the yellows smite his
orchard; too many potatoes, and the rot
and the bug destroy his crop.”
	These hints are very suggestive, and one
mother having come across them, desires 
others to have the advantage of reading
and thinking over them.
	This law of diversity in nature is a good


law to adopt in our homes. We want good,
wholesome food all the year round, but we
want variety. And as with our physical
natures, so also with the mental and spir-
itual parts of our beings.
	Besides conscientiously looking after the
preparations for bodily food and taking
care of the clothing for our households, let
us read and gain knowledge. Let us pray
and laugh with our children, and be happy.
		L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


[Column 1]
BRAVE WOMEN OF THE REVOLUTION.
	When the bare-footed and thinly clad
soldiers went to the Morris County kitchens
Hannah Carey, wife of David Thompson,
ladled out food from the great iron
pot, saying, “Eat away, men; you are wel-
come because you are fighting for the
country. Eat what you want. It is a
great cause you are engaged in, and we are
willing to share with you what we have as
long as it lasts.”
	The women with homes shared with
those who were without. We cannot im-
agine what they endured. The men fought
well for the country and so did the women.
	Hannah Arnett, of Elizabeth town, N.
J., heard her husband several times say to
some men that he thought of giving up all
effort for independence. She burst into the
room, and, in spite of her husband, rebuked
their weakness and cowardice, saying:
“What greater cause could there be than
that of country? I married a good man, a
true one, a faithful husband and a loyal
Christian gentleman. It needs no divorce
to sever me from a traitor and a coward. If
you take sides with the British you lose
your wife, and I lose my husband and my
home.”
	Hannah Arnett spoke for the patriotic
women of America, and she was as grand
as any of them. They were noble men
and noble women. We are proud of our
ancestors. They are precious relics of a
heroic age, and ought to be garnered up
safely in history.
	“Tempe Wicke owned a handsome
horse which she always rode with skill.
One day as the army was making arrange-
ments to remove, Miss Wicke, mounted on
her favorite horse, started out, wending her
way to Mendam to make a visit. On her
return she was accosted by some soldiers,
who commanded her to dismount. One of
them seized the bridle reins. Perfectly
self-possessed she appeared to submit to her
fate, but not without a vain entreaty not to
take her horse from her. She said she
would be sorry to part from him, but as she
had to, she would ask two favors of them.
One was to return him to her if possible,
and the other was, whether they returned
him or not, to treat him well. The soldiers
were completely thrown off their guard and
the reins were released. The men supposed
she was about to dismount, but nothing
was farther from her mind. No sooner did
the man take his hand off the reins, than
she touched her spirited horse with the
whip. He sped from among them like an
arrow. As she was riding away at full
speed they fired at her, but she was un-
harmed. She urged her horse up a steep
hill. Going around to the kitchen door of
her home, she sprang off and led the horse
into the kitchen, thence into the parlor,
and thence into the spare room, which had
but one window, with a shutter. The
soldiers shortly after came up; searched the

[Column 2]
barn and the woods in vain. She kept her
horse in the spare room for three weeks,
until the last trooper was fairly off. The
courageous and adroit woman afterwards
became the wife of William Tuttle, an
officer in a Jersey brigade. Do you not
think he must have been proud of
her?”
	Mollie Pitcher, the brave and loyal
woman, kindly carried water to the
wounded soldiers until her husband, who
was manning a gun, was killed. She took
his place and assisted in loading and firing
the cannon in the midst of the strife. She
is called the “Heroine of Monmouth.”
After the engagement General Washington
was so much pleased with the gallant con-
duct of the heroine that he gave her a
lieutenant’s commission. She was afterwards
called Captain Mollie, and she deserved her
title. Oh, that all the long-lost and for-
gotten ones could have more written of
them!
		HELEN MELINDA FISHER.


ANNIVERSARY DINNER.
	Twenty-fifth anniversary of the organ-
	zation of Randolph Relief Society.

	The Relief Society anniversary, (twenty-
five years) was celebrated by a grand din-
ner at the meeting house for all the married
people of Randolph Ward. The Opening
address was by Louisa Gray, and after
thanksgiving by Bishop McKinnon, all
partook of a fine dinner, prepared by the
sisters.
	After dinner the following program was
rendered:
	Singing, The spirit of God like
a fire is burning.” Prayer by Bishop Mc-
Kinnon. Reading of the minutes of the
organization of the society, a quarter of a
century ago, effected by Sisters Eliza R.
Snow and Elizabeth Howard, read by the
secretary of the meeting, Wm. Rex. Roll
call of the original members of the society,
thirteen answering to their names.
	Remarks were made by Sisters Elizabeth
Brough and Mary Snowball, relating some
of their experiences in the society.
	Song, “Hard Times Come Again no
More,” by Lillian Webb and company.
	Remarks by Stake President Lucy F.
Grant, and a reading, “Lecture on Wom-
an,” by Mary F. Shelby.
	General remarks by Father John Camer-
on (whose age is now eighty-two years) in
Scotch costume.
	Organ solo by Sister J. K. Nelson, and
remarks by Bishop McKinnon, “Reminis-
niscenses of the Past Twenty-five
Years.”
	President Sarah Tyson’s closing re-
marks were explanatory of the work done
in the past twenty-five years, there having
been only one change, and that was in
counselors, during all that time.
	Benediction by Elder J. W. Smith.

		WILLIAM REX, Sec. pro tem.


MRS. JENNIE C. CROLY, at the New
Year luncheon of Sorosis, recalled the fact
that thirty years ago a man applied for
membership, and she replied that the club
was too young to attend to anything but its
studies, so to speak, and that for some time
to come its motto must be, “Principles, not
men.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah,
Terms: one copy one year. $1.00 one copy six months.
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of lnonparie
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT office. Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a.  m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JAN. 15 & FEB. 1, 1900.


[Column 1]
AN APPEAL TO UTAH WOMEN.
	We publish in this issue the Governor’s
Proclamation in regard to an election, and
we hope and trust the women of this State
who hold the franchise, and have equal
political rights of suffrage with the men of
Utah will avail themselves of the privi-
lege conferred upon them in the constitu-
tion of the State, and by their earnest en-
deavors to promote the highest good of the
State and its people, use their utmost in-
fluence in the interest of harmony, and
show to the country, of which they are an
important part, that they appreciate the bal-
lot and will make use of it for its legiti-
mate purposes. In the years since statehood
was conferred upon the people many wom-
en have taken an active part in political
issues, and have rendered good service in
both the great parties. A few have been
elected to office, and have made a good rec-
ord. Utah alone of all the states has had a
woman senator, one who sat through two
terms of the Legislature, having been so
fortunate as to get the long term. And
women have been elected to the Lower
House and have been efficient in the work
assigned to them and acquitted themselves
well on committees In several counties in
the State women have filled the offices of
auditor, treasurer, recorder, etc., and at the
present time women are filling the offices of
recorder, treasurer and minor places and
no complaints are made in reference to their
honesty or capabilities. 
	There are comparatively few women who
would care to accept public positions of
trust or emolument if tendered them, but
the few have proven woman’s ability to
discharge public duties with credit and suc-
cess The work so far has . not intruded
upon the home or its obligations. No com-
plaints have been made of neglect of hus-
band or children because of going to vote
or holding office.
	Women can be very helpful in the com-
ing campaign if they will use their woman-
ly influence for justice and righteousness,
not condescending to any of the petty bick-
erings and strife that occasion broils and
disturbances when electioneering is in full
progress. It is not vet decided what the
mode of campaign will be, but whatever may
be the ultimate decision, it will be the plain
duty of every patriotic citizen to consider it
his or her duty to do his best for the main-
tenance of order and a peaceful solution of
the question to be settled by the votes of

[Column 2]
the people of the State. Do not, women of
our fair State, indulge in any ill feeling
that would keep you from casting your vote
for the man of your choice to represent
Utah in the halls of Congress.
	The conditions that confront the people
at the present time throughout the country
and throughout the world, demand from
women their earnest attention and the best
thought and active participation in the
public welfare in whatever way seems wise
and prudent; and more especially does it
devolve upon women who hold the ballot
to exert their utmost influence at the polls
by casting the ballot for men who will
serve their constituents honorably and up-
rightly without fear or favor in the inter-
ests, of justice and equality of privileges, and
maintain the rights of the working man or
woman as well as those who abound in
wealth, that all may enjoy the freedom and
liberty guaranteed by the constitution of
our country.
	At this crisis in the affairs of the state it
seems that every man and woman, and
especially heads of families, should stand
for the principles embodied in the good old
Constitution and Declaration of Inde-
pendence, formulated by our forefathers
under divine inspiration, as we candidly
believe; and whatsoever others may do who
disregard the Constitution or trample it
under foot, the Latter-day Saints above all
people should maintain their integrity to it
and manifest to the world that intense love
of freedom of conscience and the true spirit
of liberty that was the crowning virtue of
our Pilgrim fathers, and which eventually
must be the touchstone of human liberty
for all patriotic citizens who love their
country and the dearest rights of their
countrymen. Love God and your fellow-
men, is a motto often used, but more often
abused Utah should stand for righteous
laws and justice, and above all the women
of Utah should do their part in the inter-
ests of all the grave questions that are on
the tapis at the present time, and prepare
themselves for greater and graver condi-
tions and situations in the future.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.
	AT the conference held to organize the
Jordan Stake of Zion, January 21, and also
when the Granite Stake was organized,
January 28, selections were made of a
presidency for the Relief Society of each
Stake. In Jordan Stake Sister Marinda
Bateman was sustained as president, with
Sister Hedvig Hildah Larson, of Sandy,
and Sister Agnes Cutler, as counselors.
In the Granite Stake Sister Emma Wood-
ruff was sustained as president, and Sisters
Mary P. Young and Katharine H.
Brockbank, Counselors. It is the intention
to complete these organizations within a few
days and get them into running order.
	THE Stake Secretaries of the Relief Soci-
ety of the several Stakes of Zion are hereby
reminded that a yearly report is expected of
them for the general report, from the begin-
ning of the year 1899, January 1st to Dec-
ember 31st, and that the report must be
in as early as February 15, so that the
General Secretary may have sufficient time
to make a correct report for the April Con-
ference. All branches of the Relief Society
not included in Stakes are also requested
to send a full report for the year, that a
complete report of the entire society may
be made, including branches, whether

[Column 2]
in the United States or other countries, or
upon the islands of the sea. Address Mrs.
E. B. Wells, Secretary, Templeton, Salt
Lake City, Utah.
	THE Utah Woman’s Press Club met last
evening, January 31, 1900, at the residence
of the president, Mrs. Aimee C. Schiller,
and, after the transaction of important busi-
ness, one feature of which was ’the appoint-
ment of a committeee to draft a Memorial
for Julia Ivins McDonald, one of the
charter members of the club, lately de-
ceased. Committee, Ruth M. Fox, Romania
B. Pratt, M. D., Lucy A. Clark. Mrs.
McDonald is the only member of the club
that has passed away since its organization,
October 31, 1891. A part of the program
consisted of an original poem by Ruth M.
Fox, and “The Lakes of the Wasatch,” by
Mary A. J. Lambert, both excellent and
entertaining. We wish it distinctly under-
stood the Press Club only aims to do
original work and keep up with the times.
The remainder of the evening was spent in
delightful conversation and the hostess
regaled the members and visitors with
delicious refreshments, which added much
to the pleasure of the gathering.
	JANUARY 31 was the birthday of two of
the most eminent women of Zion, and both
were born in Jefferson County, State of
New York, President Zina D. H. Young,
of the Relief Society throughout the world,
and her first vice president, Jane S.
Richards, of Ogden, whose recent bereave-
ment in the death of her life companion,
President Franklin D. Richards, would
make the day a sorrowful one for her in
stead of a day of rejoicing. A dinner party
was given at the home of Mrs. W. J. Beatie,
Mrs. Young’s daughter. A few of Mrs.
Young’s most intimate friends were present
in honor of the occasion, fourteen sat down
at table. Aunt Zina, (Mrs. Young) as we
all love to call her, pronounced a blessing
that touched every heart with its sweet
tenderness. Mrs. Beatie is a magnificent
hostess, and knows exactly how to manage
a dinner on any great occasion. Her tact
and skill in this respect would satisfy the
most fastidious Beautiful flowers, elegant
china, snowy linen and all that gives zest
and tone to such affairs, with brilliant con-
versation, made the visit to the honored
lady a perfect success.
	MRS. LAURA G. FIXEN, of Chicago,
visited our city enroute from California,
arriving here Saturday morning, January
6. Sunday morning Mrs. Fixen attended
the German meeting and in the afternoon
the meeting in the Eighteenth Ward and
in the evening the Y. L. and Y. M. confer-
ence in the Tabernacle. The lady was
particularly impressed with the sermon of
President Joseph F. Smith, upon purity of
life and character. She stated that she had
never heard the subject set forth so clearly
and pointedly before, and felt that were
such sermons preached from the pulpits of
the churches in the Eastern cities, society,
and the condition of the people would be
materially changed for the better. A purer
atmosphere would pervade real life and
great good would be the result, in the
increase of virtue and morality. Mrs.
Fixen’s work is decidedly philanthropic.
She is business manager of a Working
Woman’s Home, in Chicago, and edits a
paper called Diamond Dust, in the interest
of the same institution. The Home will
accommodate eight or nine hundred women,


and has been a blessing to thousands. Con-
nected with the home there is a dispensary.
The same management has a summer resort
on the shore of Lake Michigan, about thirty
miles distant from Chicago. Mrs. Fixen is
a very interesting woman. She possesses a
great heart and has unbounded charity, is
a fine linguist and is certainly seeking after
truth. It was the privilege of the Utah
women to meet her in Washington last
winter, and having once seen us and heard
something of our religious faith, she could
not forget us, but wanted to know more
and see us at home in our own city. Mrs.
Fixen made an excellent impression in the
National Council, where she gave a synop-
sis of her benevolent work. She is certain-
ly a woman of marked individuality and
strong character.
	MISS MABELLE BIGGART, author and
dramatist, spent a week in our city during
January, but it was only the last few days
before she left that we had the opportunity
of meeting her. She gave her dramatiza-
tion of Adam Bede, in the Ladies’ Club
House under the auspices of the Ladies
Literary Society, and her rendition of the
strong character of Adam Bede and his
brother, Seth, was very wonderful for a
woman. The voice, with the power mani-
fest through the impersonation, surpassed
anything of the kind we had ever seen. She
made all the various scenes very vivid and
real, so much so that one’s sympathy was
intense. Miss Biggart has also her own
dramatization of Ben Hur, and after at-
tending divine service in the Tabernacle on
Sunday, January 21, expressed a wish to
have the opportunity of giving Ben Hur in
that grand place, with the great organ ac-
companiment. Miss Biggart gathered
material while here for an article on Utah,
to be brought out in the magazine, Success.
Her books are Solomon Garland, and, now
in course of publication, Ourselves and Our
Neighbors. For this last she is to make a
trip to Arizona and Mexico—making a
study of the people and the country, its
history, and other matters. Her character-
zation of different classes of people is very
original, both in manner and expression.
She has been a great traveler fur a young
woman, and has met many celebrities in
America and across the water. Miss Biggart
may visit Salt Lake again in April on her
return trip from Mexico.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OFFCIAL NOTICE.
At a special meeting of the Board of
Directors of the National Woman’s Relief
Society, held March 7, 1899, in room 208
Templeton building, (more than the re-
quired number for the transaction of busi-
ness being present) when the subject of
ways and means was being, considered, a
motion was made by Mrs. Martha A.
Cannon, of Ogden, and seconded by Dr.
Ellis R. Shipp, of Salt Lake City, that all
money raised by local branches of the Relief
Society on the 17th of March, over the ten
cent membership of each member enrolled
in the society, should be retained by the
respective society. Motion was put by
President Zina D. H. Young and carried
unanimously.

(Signed)

ZINA D. H. YOUNG,
President.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, 
Secretary.


BY THE GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF
UTAH—A PROCLAMATION.
	Whereas, A vacancy exists in the office
of Representative in Congress from the
State of Utah; and
	Whereas Section 784 of the Revised
Statutes of Utah provides that when a
vacancy occures in the office of Represen-
tative in Congress, the Governor must at
once issue a proclamation calling an elec-
tion to fill such vacancy;
	Now, therefore, I, Heber M. Wells,
Governor of the State of Utah, in pursu-
ance of such requirement, do hereby issue
a proclamation calling an election to be held
on Monday, the 2nd day of April, A. D.
1900, in the several election districts of this
State, for the purpose of electing a repre-
sentative in the Fifty-sixth Congress of the
United States from the State of Utah, to
fill the vacancy now existing. At such
election the polls will be opened at 7
o’clock in the morning and continue open
until 7 o’clock in the evening of said day,
as provided by law.
	In testimony whereof, I have hereunto
set my hand and caused the great seal of
the State of Utah to be hereunto affixed at
Salt Lake City, this 27th day of January,
A. D. 1900.
	(Seal.)		HEBER M. WELLS.
	By the Governor.
	J. T. HAMMOND, Secretary of State.


[Column 1]
VISIT TO MEXICO.
	On the 17th of October I left Salt Lake 
City in company with my son-in-law, to 
visit my daughter in Mexico, whom I had 
not seen for fifteen years.
	We traveled over the Rio Grande West-
ern, passing through Grand Canon, and 
arrived in Pueblo, Colorado, about two 
o’clock; it is a great railroad center and 
has many iron factories in operation.
	The next morning we continued our 
journey, passing through the Raton tunnels. 
Arriving in New Mexico, we saw some 
villages that are creditable, but the Mexi-
can huts have flat roofs and no windows 
in them. We stopped at Alberquerque for 
supper, and left that night on the train.
	At Los Vegas there are some creditable 
buildings. We passed through a country 
well adapted for stock raising, and arrived 
at El Paso, a live city in the western ex-
tremity of Texas. Here are some very 
fine buildings, particularly the Court
House. The following morning we
crossed the Rio Grande river over a long
bridge (via the street car line) into Mexico.
	Here our valises were searched by
Mexican officials, after which we took the
train for Colonia, Dublan. The country
here is very open and level, with a few
mountains in the distance.
	About 5 o’clock p. m., on the 21st of
October, we arrived at Dublan, where there
was a joyful meeting with my daughter.
At Dublan there is an excellent site for a
large city, the only drawback being the
scarcity of water late in the season. This
difficulty will be overcome by reservoirs.
	The latter part of October I went to
Juarez, about eighteen miles distant, with
my daughter and some of the family.
Here I attended a meeting of the Primary
Association under the able management of
Sister Maggie Ivins Bentley, and also
visited the Sunday School, under the super-
ntendency of Miles A.Romney. We were

[Column 2]
kindly treated by the Saints and hospitably
entertained at the homes of Presidents A.
W. Ivins and Henry Eyring, Bishop
Joseph Bentley and others, and met with
many friends, among them Sister Elizabeth
Snow, who is spending the winter with her
daughter in this delightful climate. I had
the pleasure of attending a party in honor
of Elder James Sconson, a returned mis-
sionary, and had an enjoyable time.
	On Thursday I returned to Dublan with
Sister Mary P. Eyring, the president of the
Relief Society of Juarez Stake, and met with
the Relief Society of Dublan. Many ex-
cellent testimonies were borne of the Gos-
pel. There is a good people here.
	On December 2nd Sister Elizabeth
Claridge McCune met with the Young
Ladies’ Association, and a spiritual feast
was enjoyed.
	On December 21st I left Dublan on the
return trip to Salt Lake City. The weather
was cold and stormy, and after traveling
some distance we found the ground covered
with snow. On the train I overheard a
conversation between a sporting man from
New York City and a Western man. The
New Yorker was asking about game, and
was told that there was plenty of game in
the mountains, and that he could hire a
good hunter to accompany him for six
dollars a day, which he seemed perfectly
willing to pay. He was anxious to kill
mountain lion, ard such game. He said
he did not like pork, and thinking he could
not get any other kind of meat in Colorado
and New Mexico, he had shipped some
beef from the East for his own benefit.
When informed that he could get any kind
of meat he wanted, he seemed surprised,
and said the people would have the laugh
on him.
	The return trip was a pleasant one, the
trains making close connections and a
quick trip was made, arriving in Salt Lake
on Sunday morning, December 24. I was
accompanied on the journey home by Elder
William Clayson, who was on his way to
the Eastern States on a mission.
ANN C. WOODBURY.


REORGANIZATION.
	At the ward conference of the Forest
Dale Ward of the Salt Lake Stake of Zion,
held Tuesday, October 22, 1899, the re-
organization of the Relief Society of that
ward was affected, Mrs. Louise Stevenson
being elected and set apart to fill the vacan-
cy caused by the death of President Cornelia
Driggs.
	President Louise Stevenson selected for
her counselors Mrs. Agnes Young and Mrs.
Ella Love. Mrs. Agnes Rumel was elected
secretary, Della Young assistant secretary,
and Mrs. Litha Hendry treasurer.


INSIDE THE AMERICAN CUSTOM HOUSE.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:
	The present Congress has before it the
greatest question that has come up for
settlement since the close of the Civil War 
or is likely to come before it for centuries.
	The American people are in possesion of
Hawaii, Porto Rico and the Philippines.
What shall we do with them?
	“Give them up,” cry the Anti-Imperial-
sts. “Govern them as subject Colonies,”
cry the imperialists. “Organize them as
Territories,” say those who believe in the


[Column 1]
principles that have made our country
great, prosperous and happy.
	Give to Hawaii, Porto Rico and Luzon,
all of them civilized communities, the same
kind and measure of home rule that we
give to New Mexico. Give to each a local
Legislature, elected by all inhabitants who
will take the oath of allegiance to the
United States, and who possess reasonable
qualifications of age, residence, education
and property, irrespective of race or sex.
Bring each of these communities inside the 
American customhouse, establishing with
it precisely the same reciprocal freedom of
trade as exists between Kansas and Okla-
homa, or between Massachusetts and
Florida. Each of these Territorial Legis-
latures should have the right to enact local
laws, subject to Congressional veto when
necessary; each should elect a delegate to
sit in the House of Representatives without
a vote, like the delegates of New Mexico,
Oklahoma and Arizona; each should have a
Governor and a Judiciary appointed by the
President with the advice and consent of 
the U. S. Senate; each should have un-
restricted commerce with all other parts of
our country.
	This condition of affairs would bring,
alike to ourselves and to these new posses-
sions, an unparallelled agricultural prosper-
ity—a free interchange of temperate and
tropical products, upon a scale hitherto un-
known, at prices mutually beneficial—a
permanent and increasing market for
American manufactures—a continuous field
of investment for American enterprise—
and a commerce such as no nation has ever
before enjoyed. This natural commerce 
between the Temperate and Torrid zones
would create a fleet of American vessels not
dependent upon subsidies for prosperity, 
and would vastly enlarge the traffic upon our
railroads, canals, and lake and river steam-
ers. Our flour, beef, pork, mutton, cattle,
hay, wheat, corn, oats and dairy products,
our cotton and linen goods, machinery,
agricultural tools, hardware, coal, petro-
leum, lumber, building material, and a
thousand articles of comfort, taste and lux-
ury, would be freely exchanged for sugar,
tobacco, tea, coffee, chocolate, rice, india
rubber, mahogany, hemp, jute, spices and
tropical fruits, all of which would be sup-
plied at far lower prices than now prevail.
Compared with these widely, diffused bene-
fits to consumers, the loss of sugar duties,
the opposition of sugar trusts and the out-
cry of a few would-be monopolists of tobac- 
co and oranges are insignificant indeed!
	Moreover, it would secure in our new
possessions permanent loyalty to the flag,
and universal satisfaction based upon gen-
eral propriety and enlightened self-interest.
It would bring about an eventual unity of
language, laws, manners and institutions
with our own. The only way to govern
wisely these now alien communities is to
enable them to govern themselves as Terri-
tories under Congressional supervision.
	This course should be adopted at once by
common consent of both the great political
parties of the country. The Republican
party, having now the control of all de- 
partments of the National government, can
organize the new possessions as self-govern- 
ing Territories and secure thereby contin-
ual National supremacy. If it refuse or
fail to do so, at the behest of hostile trusts
and monopolies, it will give the Demo-
cratic party a National issue upon which 
eventual victory will be as certain as sun-

[Column 2]
rise. The only cure for the present discon-
tent of these new possessions, the only con-
dition upon which “benevolent assimila-
tion” can be effected, is their admission to
our continental system of unrestricted
domestic free trade inside the American
custom-house. “Home rule for our new
Territories” should be the watchword of
1900, and will become the settled principle
of the Twentieth Century.
			HENRY BLACKWELL.
	Dorchester, Jan. 1900.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MEXICO CONFERENCE NOTES.
	The Relief Society Conference of the
Juarez Stake of Zion was held at Colonia,
Juarez, Mexico, October 22, 1899, Presi-
dent Mary B. Eyring presiding.
	There were present of the Priesthood.
Stake President A. W. Ivins, Counselor
Eyring, Patriarchs W. R. R. Stowell and
James H. Martineau, Bishops and many
others.
	The congregation sang “Do what is
right.” Opening prayer by Henry Eyring.
Singing, “Praise to the man who com-
muned with Jehovah.”
	After minutes of the former conference
were read, reports of local branches were
given by officers or delegates who had
traveled in teams over mountain roads to
attend the conference, receive instructions
and report the condition of the society.
	There are seven organizations of the
Relief Society here, each was represented
as doing well, which is very gratifying to
know.
	The storing of grain and other articles
of food, such as beans, dried fruits, etc.,
was one of the leading subjects of the con-
ference. The members are liberal in donat-
ing to the society, consequently the poor
are well cared for.
	The visiting teachers were advised to
talk on some principles of the Gospel, and
not to indulge in idle gossip.
	President Mary B. Eyring was thankful
that all the branches had been reported.
Testified that if we are willing to do our
duties as members of the Relief Society, we
will enjoy the spirit of the Lord. The
Lord has blessed us and increased our com-
forts. If we are true mothers at home, we
are true members of the Relief Society.
	President Henry Eyring urged the sisters
to study the Spanish language, as mission-
aries will be needed to instruct the people
of this land in the near future.
	There were many other speakers and
each gave good instructions. The general
and local officers of the society were unani-
mously sustained in the usual way.
	The officers of this Stake of Zion are
Mary B. Eyring, president; Cynthia J.
Stowell, first counselor; Ellen Lunt, second
counselor; Sarah A. Clayson, secretary. 
		SARAH A. CLAYSON, Sec.


R. S. REPORTS. 
MARICOPA STAKE. 
The Maricopa Stake Relief Society con-
ference was held at the Mesa Relief Society 
hall, December 21, 1899, with Counselor F. 
Robson presiding. 
Present of the Priesthood were Stake 
Counselor Henry C. Rogers and several 
others of the brethren. 
Meeting opened with the usual exercises. 
Counselor F. E. Robson felt lonely in the 
(Column 2)
absence of our beloved president, who was 
detained on account of the serious illness of 
her daughter. 
Reports from each ward were favorable, 
and those who attended felt well in the
Gospel.
	We had visiting with us Dr. Ellis R. 
Shipp, of Salt Lake City, who is a member 
of the General Board of the Relief Society. 
She expects soon to commence teaching a 
class in obstetrics and nursing in this Stake 
of Zion. 
We had a visit recently from Elder L. J. 
Nuttall, who reorganized the Relief Society 
under parliamentary rules, and many sisters 
joined, all wanted to take part with renewed 
diligence. The instructions were chiefly 
on the law of tithing and the education of 
the sisters in obstetrics, hygiene, the care 
of children and the sacredness of mother-
hood. 
The meeting adjourned with the feeling 
that we never had had a better conference.
			Anna E. FULLER, Sec. 
SAN LUIS. 
The Relief Society conference of the San 
Luis Stake was held in Sanford, Cone-
jos Co., Colorado, on November 10, 1899, 
President Cornelia Mortensen presiding.
	The choir sang "Earth with her ten 
thousand flowers." Prayer by Brother 
Harmon Christensen. Singing, "Prayer is 
the soul's sincere desire."
President C. Mortensen said she felt 
grateful for this opportunity. 
The roll of Stake officers and ward mem-
bers was called and minutes of previous 
conference read and approved. The choir 
sang "Come, come ye Saints." 
Sister M. Sellers, of Manassa, Sister P. 
E. Cullers, of Mountain View, Sister M. 
E. Hamil, of Morgan, and Sister M. A. 
Berthelsen, of Sanford, all gave reports of 
their respective wards. The sisters were 
united, had good attendance and held their 
meetings regularly. They all expressed a 
desire to do their duties. 
Brother Molten, from Utah, addressed 
the conference a short time. He said: "If 
we have the spirit of God with us, the 
labors in the Church are a pleasure and a 
living testimony of Jesus Christ, and the 
Gospel is more to be desired than anything 
else." 
Sister Dollie Russell, of Antonito, spoke
a short time upon the duties of sisters in 
the Relief Society. 
Singing, "How firm a foundation." 
	By request a special prayer was offered 
by Brother George Irvin, in behalf of the 
sick and afflicted among us. 
Sister Margaret Haskell, of Manassa, 
said, "I feel to bear my testimony that the 
spirit of God is with us. I believe a spirit 
of reformation is among the Latter-day 
Saints. God has spoken from heaven, and 
His work is established on earth. I would 
ask the sisters, in behalf of the Primary, to 
send their children to meetings, and teach 
them at home." 
Singing, "Now let us rejoice in the day 
of salvation." Benediction by Brother 
Hugh L. Sellers. 
Afternoon session opened by the choir 
singing "We thank Thee, O God, for a 
prophet." Prayer by Bishop W. O. 
Crowther. Singing, "The time is nigh, 
that happy time." 
The General and Stake officers of the 
Relief Society  were  presented and 
sustained, also statistical and financial re-


port for the year 1898 read by the Stake
Secretary.
	Sisters M. Showcroff, of Richfield, and
E. Dunn, of Eastdale, gave reports of their
respective branches; said they were doing
well.
	Counselor Magdaline Funk spoke briefly
on duties of mothers, tithing and storing of
grain
	General President Cornelia Mortensen
gave a report of her visit to the Relief
Society conference in Salt Lake City, in
October. She told us many of the instruc-
tions that had been given, and said there
was a rich flow of the spirit of God. Presi-
dent Zina D. H. Young had spoken to the
sisters in tongues.
	Counselor Sarah J. Hostetter addressed
the conference a short time on the subject
of the two powers, good and evil. She
said when we would do good, evil was ever
present. 
	Sister Loretta Petersen bore her testi-
mony to having been healed in the Salt
Lake Temple, by being baptized for her
health.
	Stake Counselor Thomas A. Crowther
encouraged the sisters in their many duties
in the Relief Society, and in training their
children in the ways of truth.
	Conference was adjourned for six months.
	The choir sang "High on the mountain
top." Benediction by Brother Lars Mor-
tensen.
Mary F. Crowther, 
Stake Secretary, R.S.

	A reception was given by President
Cornelia Mortensen, December 27, 1899, at
her home. All the Stake presidency of the
Relief Society, also the presidency of San-
ford Ward and Primary Association were
invited guests, together with other noted
friends. A very enjoyable afternoon was
spent visiting and exchanging greetings of
the season.
	A very interesting program of songs,
select readings, recitations, etc., was ren-
dered, after which all partook of the boun-
ities and luxuries of this earth, that had
been prepared in a way to deserve compli-
ment and praise from all present, by our
loving president.
	About 6 p. m. all wended their way
home, with thankful hearts for the privilege
of associating with friends under such
favorable circumstances.
	I hope we may enjoy many more such
gatherings.
M. F. C.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.
HARRIET H. KELSEY.

	Sister Harriet Huggett Kelsey was born in
Lovell Heath, England, June 6, 1825, and died in
Springville, Utah, December 22, 1899.
	As a child she grew up seeing all her wishes
gratified. At an early age she went to live with
her sister. Here she saw life among the aristoc-
racy. One day, hearing that the “Mormons”
were going to hold a meeting, she went, as many
another had done, out of curiosity.  She was im-
pressed by what she heard and proceeded to in-
vestigate. She was scoffed at by her sister and
friends, and it was only by fasting and prayer
that she overcame the difficulties and was baptized
by Elisha Davis in 1841. She did all in her power
to assist the Elders and aid the Church in any
way.
	In 1852 she met William H. Kelsey, a traveling
Elder, and they were married at Norwood Church
on September 27 of the same year.
	Early in the year 1861 she, with her husband and
three little children, left England for America.
The voyage was long and tedious, as was also the


trip across the plains; and although Sister Kelsey
was in delicate health, she never murmured at her
lot. They arrived in Springville late in the fall of
1861, and have since resided here.
Sister Kelsey worked in the Relief' Society for
thirteen years as second counselor to Ann Bring-
hurst. She was a woman of great faith and
often visited the sick, leaving a blessing with
them. She leaves four children, three daughters
and one son.
Sister Kelsey departed this life as peacefully as
a little child going to sleep.
Zebina Alleman,
President Second Ward R. S.
Springville, January 19, 1900.

DEATH OF ELLEN CLEGG.
Grandma Clegg, as she was familiarly known,
passed to the great beyond to reap the reward of
the just, October 30, 1899, and was laid to rest in
the Heber City cemetery, November 1.
The service was held in the Stake Tabernacle.
It was one of the largest processions ever seen in
Heber City; it extended half a mile.
The two Relief Society branches of Heber
City headed the procession, followed by the Young
Ladies and Primary children. At the Tabernacle
some two hundred children passed by the remains,
and deposited their tribute of flowers on the lid of
the casket, which became literally covered.
The service commenced with the usual exercises
of song and prayer. Bishop John Watkins and
Albert Jones were the first two speakers. They
both crossed the plains in Edward Martin’s hand-
cart company with the deceased and her family.
All the speakers eulogized the sterling qualities of
the deceased.
Sister Clegg embraced the Gospel in her native
country. She was one of the early pioneers of
this valley and passed through the many hard-
ships of early days and poverty, going through
without a murmur. She was a midwife here for a
great many years, going among the sick w enever
called.
Jonathan and Ellen Clegg had lived together
sixty-three years in wedded life, respected and be-
loved by all. Her memory will ever be held dear
to the people of this valley. She leaves behind
her a husband, a host of children, grandchildren,
great-grandchildren, and friends unnumbered to
cherish her memory.
Com.


[Column 1]
FROM PATH TO PATH.

THE EXPERIENCES OF A FEW YEARS.

	When we meet with a face, the features
of which remind us of some one whom we
have seen or known, we think it is very
much like our experiences; for if the faces
that we think are similar were placed to-
gether, we would at once see that they
were not exactly alike. So it is with events
in our lives; while there is much sameness,
there are also some differences which make
the hearing of them or the reading of them
all the more interesting. Believing this to
be the case, I thought it might not be out
of place to write some things that have
happened during my life, and that not
many years ago.
	I like to hear how this one and that one
became a Mormon, so I will now relate how
I became a Mormon, or how I became a
full-fledged Mormon, as our missionary,
Elder Bennion, once said to me.
	To commence my story. When I ar-
rived at the age of twenty, I left my
native island (Guerensey) with my sister
and two brothers to cross the ocean in a
steamer called Bremen, going to America,
where I had a few relatives who lived in
Newark, New Jersey. After residing there
four years we heard of land in Kansas, so
we concluded to go West, to try our for-
tunes in the land of Uncle Sam. We
arrived in the west part of Kansas (which
is now called St. John) in time to put in an
early spring crop. We had been there but
a short time when our nearest neighbor,
who lived over a mile from us, came over
in great haste one day with some very im-

[Column 2]
portant news, and before going on with my
story, I want to say that I was entirely ig-
norant of the people claiming to be Latter-
day Saints, and I believe many are at the
present time, even though living but a few
miles from where our Elders have visited;
and I believe this opposition now stirring
will cause many to inquire of them and our
doctrine.
	Well, this neighbor came over to tell us 
that a colony of people called Mormons was
coming to settle among us, and he seemed
to regret it very much, because he believed 
them to be a very bad people, and thought
we ought to unite with our far away neigh-
bors and see what we could do to prevent
them colonizing. However, as he saw
this piece of news did not put fear into us, 
he did not stay long, not being satisfied
with the effect the information had pro-
duced.
	After he had gone my husband said to
me, “I wonder if they are any worse than
he is? If so, God pity us.”
	This man was very profane and seemed
to have no fear of God or a hereafter, and
had it not been for his good wife and three
dear little children I could hardly have rec
onciled myself to my lonely condition,
especially when the week was ended and
Sunday came. We had always been in the
habit of attending meeting and Sunday
School, I having taught in the Methodist 
Sunday School ever since I was sixteen
years of age. Therefore, we had, since our
arrival, had to content ourselves with read-
ing such books as we had brought with us.
	It was not more than a few weeks after
receiving this news, that my husband said
one evening, “I believe I’ll run down to
the new camp and have a look around."
So after clearing away supper, and putting
our little girl baby to bed—for at this time I
had been married two years—I waited
patiently to hear the report of our new
neighbors. I did not have to wait many
hours before he brought all the information
he could in so short an acquaintance. How-
ever, he had found them to be a very, re-
spectable looking company, clean and tidy,
working like clockwork, all apparently in
harmony. They had already, he said,
built a house all but  the plastering, and
had moved into it. This house was for 
their blacksmith, who was the only man
who had as yet brought his family, the
others had left their wives and children in
Pennsylvania, Ohio, and they were to come
later.
	Finding out that their teams were going
to town the next day, my husband asked
if he could go with them, as one of our 
team was lame, and the distance was con-
siderable, twenty-eight miles. This gave
him an opportuniiy to get acquainted with
of the leading men, with whom he conver-
sed considerbly going and coming, their
chief topic of conversation being on reli-
gion. He proved that they believed that
the one who had organized their Church
claimed to be a prophet, and had been
visited by an angel, so they said. This
surprised me very much and I wondered
why, if since they claimed to be Christians, 
the name Mormon was not found in the list
of orthodox religions.
	However, when the next Sunday came
my husband said he thought he would go
and hear them preach, as they were going 
to hold meeting in the new house and they 
had invited him to come and hear them.
To this I agreed on condition that if they 
preached from the Bible I would accompany


him on the next Sunday. We both contin-
ued to go and hear them preach because it
seemed more like home to go to meeting
again, although what we heard somewhat
disturbed our peace, and our first impres-
sion was that they were a little bigoted as
they passed the sacrament without allow-
ing us to partake of it.
Another thing that disturbed us was that
they proved from the Bible that infant
baptism was wrong, and that baptism by
immersion was right. This caused us to
look around and think that we must be in-
vestigating, consequently many a midnight
hour found us pondering over the scriptures,
but I regret to say, that for awhile our
motives were more for criticism than for
obtaining truth. However, one day some
of my grandfather’s words came to my
mind. When asked by a friend if he
thought one could go insane by reading
scripture, he said, “No, not if they read it
in a prayerful spirit. If they read it that
way it will give them consolation.”
After I had pondered over my father’s
words I knelt down and asked aid of my
Heavenly Father, that I might be led in
the right path, and that if the people were
right I might see it and follow the true
light, even if it was to the giving up of all
the teachings I had heretofore received.
Before going any further with my story
it might be well to explain what faction of
Saints these were. The leader was one
William Bickersten, who had been at one
time baptized in Pennsylvania, by Sydney
Rigdon, who was the leader of that Church
after the death of our beloved Prophet
Joseph. When Sydney Rigdon died, this
William Bickersten claimed to receive a
revelation to reorganize the Church in its
purity. Later on it seems he received
another revelation to gather to Kansas.
That is how they came to this dry, barren
place, where we experienced many losses
through draught. The Lord did not seem
to smile on this gathering, for many had to
at last mortgage and leave for other parts,
till at length fifteen years rolled by and
then there arose a dispute in the Church,
the members taking sides with another
leader, William Cadman.
Now, there were two sides, as we used
to call them, each claiming to be the true
Church, each having a head. The teach-
ers of each side visited us and warned us
not to support the other side, as each had
cut the other off from the Church. Well,
thought this was an awful state of things
and we concluded to remain with the
original head, and as he claimed revelation
had placed him there, we thought it but
reasonable that revelation ought to cast him
out, and this they had not claimed to receive.
(To be continued.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LANTERN LECTURE.
	On Tuesday evening, November 28, an
interesting lecture, illustrated by innumer-
able limelight views, was given in the
Town Hall, by Elder Ezra T. Stevenson, of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints.
	The hall was comfortably filled by an
interested audience, not a few Maoris from
the Te Aroha Pah being among
those present. The pictures were well
produced and the lecture listened to atten- 
tively. A great many of those present left
the hall with a much healthier view of
Mormonism than they previously had.—Te
Aroha and Ohinemuri News.


NOTES.
	ONE often hears parents deplore the fact
that their children have not the same oppor-
tunities which they had of learning to be
useful in the home. Is it so much, though,
that opportunities for usefulness do not
exist, as that they are not embraced? If
the members of the family, each according
to his ability, took some share of the house-
hold work and responsibility, the mother
could more easily find some hours of free-
dom for herself, the servant question
would be less pressing, and the strain of
meeting expenses of the family diminished.
Then, since it is acknowledged that child-
hood is the best time to learn to do things
with the hands, why ask for manual train-
ing in schools and shut it out of the home?
Can there be any better way of giving men
and women a sense of obligation to society
than by teaching them early that they owe
some service to the family? And, if we
wish to show others that we respect labor
and believe in helping each other, must we
not show it in our example in our house-
holds? We suggest that you consider how,
under modern conditions, children may be
made helpful in the household.—Ex.
	OLIVE SCHREINER, in a letter published
in a late number of Mr. William T.
Stead’s War Against War in South Africa
expresses her acute grief over the present
war. She says: “Oh, the people in Eng-
land have not understood, they have not
understood! There is a time coming, a
terrible awakening when they understand
what they have done. Our gallant, heroic
Transvaals are dying, and brave English
soldiers are falling, and the miserable hordes
of blood-suckers and money-makers are
quietly in hiding, to come out when the
war is over to dig their claws into our
hearts. War is a terrible thing; but when
it is undertaken in the service of wealth,
and to crush freedom, it is hell. If
England could but see in time that
Chamberlain is undermining the found-
ations of the Empire, the true Empire of
which South Africans have dreamed, which
shall be a great confederacy of the nations,
not crushed beneath her heel, but bound to
her by indissoluble ties of love and sym-
pathy! Chamberlain is stabbing the heart
of the British Empire.’’—Ex.


[Column 1]
90% OF AMERICAN WOMEN
wash dishes three times each day. If you are one
of these, wear a pair of “Goodyear” Rubber
Gloves and always have soft, white hands. Sent
by mail postpaid, on receipt of $1.59 Agents
wanted. Address, M. O, Dept.,
M. F. Reese Supply Co., Setauket, N. Y.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY

The Leading Retail.
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

[Column 2]
[logo of a shield]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD’S PICTORIAL LINE.

[to the right of the logo]
THE PEOPLE’S FAVORITE.

			Leave Salt Lake City
No. 6	The “Fast Mail” for Chicago, St. Paul, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and
		Park City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7 00 a. m.
No. 2	The “Over and Limited” for Chicago, St.
		Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
		Denver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	11 45 a. m.
No. 4	The “Atlantic Express” for Chicago, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver. . .	6 40 p m.

			Arrive Salt Lake City.
No. 5	The “Fast Mail” from Chicago, St. Louis,
		Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and Park
		City. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3 00 p. m
No. 1	The “Overland Limited” from Chicago, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver . .	3 00 p. m.
No  3	The ‘Pacific Express” from Chicago, St.
		Paul, St Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
		Denver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3 30 p. m.

CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 Main St.		Telephone 665.
					H. M. CLAY, General Agent.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

Oregon Short Line Railroad.

Time Table in Effect October 15, 1899.

	Trains will arrive and depart at Salt Lake City daily 
lows: 
				ARRIVE:
From Ogden, Chicago, Omaha, St. Louis and Denver,	3:30 a.m
From Ogden, Portland, Butte, Helena and San Fran-
	cisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	9:03 a.m.
*From Milford, Sanpete, Provo and Intermediate
	points. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	9:35 a.m.
From Ogden, Chicago, St. Louis, Omaha, Denver and
	San Francisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3:00 p.m.
**From Garfield Beach, Tooele and Terminus. . . . . . .	4:00 p.m.
From Tintic and Mercur . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	6:30 p.m.
Cache Valley Express, from Preston, Logan, Ogden
	and intermediate points. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	6:40 p.m.
From Ogden, Butte, San Francisco and intermediate
	points. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7:50 p.m.

				DEPART.
For Ogden, Omaha, Chicago, Denver, St. Louis and
	Cache Valley. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7:00 a.m.
For Tintic and Mercur . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7:55 a.m.
**For Garfield Beach, Tooele and Terminus. . . . . . . .	7:45 a.m.
For Ogden, Butte, Helena, Portland and intermediate
	points. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	9:45 a.m.
For Ogden, Omaha, Chicago, Denver, St. Louis and
	San Francisco. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	11:45 a.m.
*For Provo, Sanpete, Milford and intermediate points	5:30 p.m.
For Ogden, Denver, Omaha, St. Louis and Chicago. .	6.40 p.m.
For Ogden, Butte, San Francisco and intermediate
	points . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	8:45p m.
*Trains south of Juab do not run Sundays.
**Daily except Sunday.
City Ticket Office Under Masonic Hall, 2nd South St,
S. W. ECCLES,				D. E. BURLEY,
Gen. Traffic Manager.			Gen. P. nd T. A.
				W. H. BANCROFT,
			Vice-President and Gen’l Manager


Woman’s Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation. 
Vol. 28. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15 & MARCH 1, 1900. Nos. 18 & 19.


CONTENTS.
A Day in Concord................E. H. C. 105
Elizabeth Pixton (Autobiography)......... 106
The Lakes of the Wasatch..M. A. J. Lambert 107
A Good Letter............Della F. Smita 107
Birthday Gathering.................E. B. W. 109
In Honor of Sister E. B. Layton......Annie 109
A Wedding Anniversary..............A Daughter 109
From Path to Path..................Little Sister 109
R. S. Reports............................ 110
Ladies Semi Monthly Meeting..A. T. Hyde 111
A Pleasant Reunion...............Sarah Webb 112
Obituary................................. 111

EDITORIAL—The Seventeenth of March..... 108
	Editorial Notes....................... 108

POETRY—Susan B. Anthony..L. A. C. Ward 105
	God’s Love............................ 107
	We’ll All Take a Ride......Isabel Darling 107


[Column 1]
SUSAN B. ANTHONY.
February 15, 1820 		February 15, 1900.
LOVES ROSARY.
Come let us tell upon Love’s rosary
With years for beads—eight decades in the chain-
The record of a life’s true history,
 Its joy and grief, its pleasure and its pain.
Within the first decade a little child
 Love-welcomed lived within a happy home;
 And from a well of home-joy undefiled,
Wise lessons drew for all the years to come.
She learned to love the quiet Quaker gray;
 She learned the sweet inflections that belong
To Quaker speech; the “Thee” and “Thou” they
 say;
The gentle conscience that can do no wrong.
The second decade saw her at the post
Of duty, teaching, that she might relieve
Her father’s burden. Since then what a host
Have learned of her to think first,then believe.
’Twas then she saw her father’s noble way
Of setting principles above mere gain;
No liquor would he sell; no taxes pay
To government that justified war’s stain.
With these great lessons she learned humbler ones;
The sweet home duties that the home endears;
To cook, to sew, to weave the thread that runs
Home-joys throughout the fabric of the years.
 Within the third decade the world’s great need
 Knocked loud upon the door of her great heart;
She yearned toward the oppressed; no race or
creed
But in that wealth of sympathy had part.
The fourth decade she entered public life;
She heard above all else the cry of slaves;
"Come, break our chains !” No sound of drum
or fife
Could drown that cry, re-echoed from the graves.
"No compromise!” her daring voice proclaimed,
“Emancipation, unconditional—NOW!”
Fearless she faced great mobs—jeered at, defamed;
Yet gentle peace was ever on her brow.
 This same decade bestowed the best of gifts—
Comrades and friends like those the bards have
sung;
Pure, noble, filled with passion such as lifts
The worker, and impels the pen and tongue.
Lucretia Mott, great leader of the band;
Of Quaker birth—a preacher, heaven inspired;
Gentle yet strong, and fitted to command;
Radiant in beauty, and with ardor fired.
Stanton came next, with brilliant, noble face, 
And splendid gift of glorious eloquence;
And Lucy Stone, whose sweet and gentle grace
Brought even enemies to her defense. 
Mott. Stanton, Stone and Anthony; what names
To bear aloft for pure nobility;
The while each voice with gratitude proclaims:
"They gave to us our Woman's Century !"

[Column 2]
The fifth decade saw some dreams coming true;
This great association chose to stand
For Woman Suffrage; ’twas its founders’ due
That name and deed its great work should ex-
pand.
The sixth, seventh, eighth—let us not separate;
Her work went on with added power and joy,
Her boundless courage nothing could abate,
No pain could daunt, no failure could annoy.
Here are three beads apart from all the rest,
Yet hung upon our golden rosary;
And who shall say which one of them is best,—
For they are Faith and Hope and Charity.
This pearl is Faith,—reward of earnest quest;
The turquoise, Hope, is ever in her sight;
The topaz, Charity, lies on her breast;
And over all Love’s moonstone sheds its light.
These are the reliquaries—memories they;
Some dark with pain that racked the very soul;
Some bright with self-sacrifice that may
Mean joy unspeakable, but never dole.
Here is the Cross—ah me ! the heavy cross !
It speaks of disappointments multiplied;
Of work defeated, and the bitter loss
Perchance of hopes for which she fain had died.
We’ve told our beads—the annals of a life
To others given. Now let us look abroad
And see, amid the record of the strife, If we behold her adequate reward.
These years so freely given to the cause 
She made her own, have radiated far;
In evolution there can be no pause;
The circles vibrate past the horizon’s bar.
In the great cauldron of experience
Her thoughts and deeds and words were stirred,
until
The world drew from the seethings a true sense
Of woman’s rights, untrammeled by man’s will.
Today we know man’s life is incomplete
Unless the woman close beside him stand,
Sharing his interests—for this is meet;
It is as God ordained and nature planned.
The perfect whole, poet and seer conceive
Inclusive of both parts; who could desire
A world by woman ruled ? Do we believe
A man-ruled world is even an atom higher ?
No ! man and woman for the sake of truth
And love must join; then seer and poet’s voice;
“Here is the fountain of eternal youth !”
Shall cry; and future nations shall rejoice.
Behold our Queen ! Surely with heart elate
At homage given to her love and power;
World-famed, associate of the wise and great,—
She is herself the woman of the hour !
Priestess of righteousness without pretense;
Her greatness shielded by simplicity;
Justice and mercy join in her strong sense
Of service owing to humanity.
How kindly have the years all dealt with her !
She proves the Bible promises are true;
She waited on the Lord without demur, 
And He failed not her courage to renew.
Oft on the wings of eagles she uprose;
On mercies errands have her glad feet run;
And yet no sign of weariness she shows;
She does not faint, but works from sun to sun.
Deep in her eyes burn fires of purpose strong;
Her hand upholds the scepter of God’s truth;
Her lips send forth brave words against the wrong
Glows in her heart the joy of deathless youth.
Kindly and gentle; learned, too, and wise;
Lover of home and all the ties of kin;
Gay comrade of the laughing lips and eyes;
Give us new words to sing your praises in !
Yet let us rather now forget to praise,
Remembering only the true friend to greet,
As drawing near by straight and devious ways, We lay our hearts—Love’s guerdon—at her feet

[Column 3]
Blow, O ye winds, across the oceans, blow !
Go to the hills and prairies of the West !
Haste to the tropics,—search the fields of snow;—
Let the worlds gift to her become your quest !
Shine sun through prism of the waterfall, 
And build us here a rainbow arch to span
The years, and hold the citadel
Of her abiding work for God and man. 
What is the gift, O winds, that ye have brought ?
O sun, what legend shines your arch above?
Ah! they are one, and all things else are naught !
Take them, beloved—they are love, love, love !
LYDIA AVERY COONLEY WARD.


A DAY IN CONCORD.

	A day in Concord! What a train of
pleasant recollections this brings before my
mind. The task is indeed a heavy one,
that of picturing to my listeners one of the
most enjoyable days of my recent Eastern
visit, and I feel my inability to give even a
faint idea of this beautfful city.
	The first of May dawned happy for us
and we early completed our arrangements
for our contemplated trip. I, with four of
the other girls, boarded a car early in the
day and soon found ourselves at the station, 
from which point we started on our jour-
ney. The first feature is to procure a
guide book, which is hastily scanned as we
progress on our line of march. When we
reach Concord one of our number secures a
three seated carriage, and with a well in-
formed driver we resign ourselves to the
pleasures of the day.
	As we drive down the quaint streets of
this home-like little town, the many notable
places connected with the struggle for inde-
pendence are pointed out to us. Here is
the old Barrett house, which was ransacked
by the British soldiers in the hope that they
would find stores of gunpowder, which
were supposed to have been concealed by
Colonel Barrett. Near it stands the Lee
farm, where the Howard students held
their sessions while their buildings were
occupied by Revolutionary soldiers. The old
Wright tavern, in which, on the morning
of April 19th, Major Pitcairn boastingly
stated that he would win the day, occupies
a prominent position on Main Street. The
meeting place of the first Provincial Con-
gress is pointed out on a lot adjoining the
Wright tavern, while directly opposite this
place we see the Old Hill burying ground,
where the first settlers lived, and where
also the old powder house stood.
	Shall we now drive to the scene of battle?
As we approach the spot that seems so calm
and peaceful, we gaze on the monuments
placed on either side of the river, and as
we read the words inscribed thereon our
minds are filled with horror at the thought
of the terrible conflict. We seem to see the
brave men rouse at the word of their com-
mander and follow the order of him whose
word is law. As they advance, the boast
of Pitcairn seems about to be realized, for
what can be expected in so unequal a strug-
gle? We see the terrible effect of the
deadly volley which is poured into the
ranks of the minute men; and but a mo-
ment afterward see Major Butterich leap
into the air with the inspiring cry, ‘‘Fire


[Column 1]

fellow soldiers; for God's sake fire." As
they readily respond to his call, two of the
British fall and the remaining number
make a disorderly retreat. Cheer upon
cheer rise to the lips of our brave men and
we see the unsurpassed statue of the
Minute Man facing the spot where success
first crowned resistance to an unyielding
foe. We will follow them in their retreat
to Merriam's Corner, where they face
about and attempt to regain their lost
ground. It is of no avail, however, and
they are driven under fire from the Concord
men to Charlestown.
	We have been living in a military atmos-
phere, but let us now for a few moments
partake of the literary spirit with which
this place abounds. It is this same spot
which for years was the home of many of
our most charming writers. The names of
Emerson, Alcott, Hawthorne and Thoreau
are so closely connected with the place that
we seldom hear the name of Concord with-
out having the image of one of these per-
sons brought before our minds.
	As we drive out Lexington road we
come to a large square building which we
are told was the home of Ralph Waldo
Emerson. It is a beautiful place in a set-
ting of pine trees. This was always a
center for the many bright minds of the
age, and the intellectual influence of the
place seems to carry us into a world be-
yond our own. Some distance farther
down the road we see Orchard House,
which was the home for many years of one
of the dearest women who ever lived—
Louisa M. Alcott. Why is it that every
girl's heart thrills when she hears that
name? Need I ask such a question? Here
we can see her with her sister in their per-
fect enjoyment of home life. Their trials
were, perhaps, as heavy as any of us have
to bear, but how nobly they were overcome!
and afterwards the enjoyment of perfect
happiness followed as the just reward.
	It was here that Mr. Alcott established
his School of Philosophy, and the Hillside
Chapel, standing but a short distance from
the Orchard House, was the annual meet-
ing place. Adjoining the place on the left
we see the Wayside which was owned
and occupied by Nathaniel Hawthorne dur-
ing the latter part of his life. A restful
quiet seems to hang over the place, and we
can easily imagine this wonderful man
sending forth his best efforts from such a
spot.
	The Old Manse occupies a position on
the Concord river, in a lot closely connected
with the old battlefield. It is especially
dear to the hearts of Hawthorne's admir-
ers for his charming set of sketches, which
takes its name from this place.
	Henry Thoreau spent the greater part of
his life in Concord. Here he was given
ample scope for the fulfillment of his de-
sire to spend a great deal of his life in the
study of nature. The result of this with-
drawal from human companionship and de-
votion to nature and wild life is given in
Walden, or Life in the Woods.
	Our trip to Concord would indeed be con-
sidered incomplete without a visit to the
famous Wayside Inn in which so many re-
nowned people have been entertained. A
most pleasing description has been given
by our own dear poet, Longfellow, in his
interesting Tales of a Wayside Inn.
	We will now make our way to Sleepy
Hollow cemetery, where lie the mortal re-
mains of these valued contributors to
American literature. As we ascend the hill

[Column 2]
at the top of which we expect to find the
graves we seek, no sound breaks the still-
ness and our conversation is carried on in
hushed voices for fear of disturbing the
silence which hangs over the spot. In
close succession we pass the graves of
Thoreau, Hawthorne, Mr. and Mrs. Alcott
and their brave "Little Woman," and
Emerson, each grave being marked by a
suitable headstone. We feel, indeed, that
no more fitting locality could be chosen for
a last resting place, after the cares and sor-
rows of life, than this quiet peaceful spot.
						E. H. C.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
ELIZABETH PIXTON.
AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
I was born at Chesterfield, in Derbyshire,
England, on the 8th day of February, 1820.
My parents names were John and Charlotte
Cooper. There were five children of us,
four girls and one boy. I was the third a
boy and a girl being older than myself.
We were among the class known as poor
people, and, therefore, I had little or no
schooling and was expected, as soon as I
was able, to add my mite to our support.
My mother died when I was about six
years old, and you all know what home be-
comes without a mother. My father con-
tinued to keep house for about three years,
then the home was broken up and the fam-
ily divided among our relatives. I was
sent to live with my grandmother, until I
was about thirteen years old, then lived
with an aunt for about two years as a
nurse girl. Afterwards I went out to ser-
vice, and continued there until I was nine-
teen years old.
During my service I became acquainted
and kept company with Robert Pixton,
and we were married on May 5th, 1839.
On the 8th of Feburary, 1840, my first
baby, Charlotte, was born, and we got
along very nicely until my husband got
the American fever. He felt disposed to
go to Canada, but being acquainted with
Brother Bateman he finally went with the
Latter-day Saints, and sailed away on the
21st of September, 1841.
This was a sore trial to me, and I lost
my second baby, named George, a week
after my husband left. I now took a situ-
ation as wet nurse in a good family. I re-
ceived seven dollars a week wages and had
a very comfortable home. I stayed there
until October 21, 1843, when I left my
native land to join my husband.
We left in the good ship Champion.
From Liverpool our voyage lasted six
weeks and three days; a pleasant voyage as
compared with some of those days al-
though we were becalmed for four days.
But the end came and we landed at New
Orleans.
The ship company allowed us to live and
stay on board for several days, until the
boat was ready which was to take us up
the river, where we were met by my hus-
band on December 23, 1843, at Island 69,
in the State of Kansas. Brother Pixton
was accompanied by Brother Thomas Sil-
cock, who had also come to meet his wife,
for we had been companions all the way
from Liverpool.
We stayed at Island 69 that winter, and
lived in a blacksmith shop, and in the
spring we started up the Mississippi river
to Nauvoo, where we arrived safe and
sound. We bought a half acre of land of
William Blackhurst, and built a brick room.

[Column 2]
This was our first real estate, and our first
home. Brother Pixton after building our
house worked on the Temple until the
death of the Prophet Joseph, and whilst
here we had our endowments in the Tem-
ple.
We stayed in Nauvoo until the spring of
1846, when Brother Pixton drove some
teams up the country for President Brigham
Young. He came back for me in May
and we moved to Mount Pisgah. At this
time and previously a call had been made
upon Brigham Young for a company of the
brethren to tramp across the continent and
assist in the war in Mexico, and my hus-
band among others volunteered to go. He
left me at Pisgah and started off in what is
known as the Mormon Battalion.
From Pisgah we moved to WinterQuarters
or Florence, as it was afterwards called.
We passed the winter there, we could
scarcely say we lived. I was alone in my
old wagon box with my little girl,
Charlotte. Another baby boy was born to
me there. We called him Helaman,
Brother Brigham Young blessed him. He
died in about five weeks and was put away
with about five hundred more who were
buried at Winter Quarters that season.
I was glad when ihe winter was passed,
and in the month of July, 1847, I went
down to St. Louis to earn sufficient money
for a fit out to take me to Salt Lake I left
my wagon and cattle in the charge of my
friends. I stayed in St. Louis until the
spring of 1848, when I returned to Winter
Quarters and found my yoke of cattle and a
yoke of cows and my wagon all right, and
we started on May 2, 1848, across the
great plains to the Salt Lake valley, driv-
ing my own team. I was in Brigham
Young's hundred, and the wagon in front
of mine was Horace Eldredge's, and the
one behind me was William Van Dyke's.
I could not work my cows very well, so I
let Brother Inman take them to work.
We arrived in Salt Lake City on Septem-
ber 22, 1848, and camped down in the old
fort. One week after our arrival a com-
pany of the Mormon Battalion arrived. My
husband being among the company, we
went out to the warm springs to meet
them, and, after a parting of over two hard
years, we again started life together. We
lived in the fort until we got our city lot,
when Brother Pixton built us one adobe
room and had it finished and moved our 
few things in. In the morning a great
snow fell and it was sixteen weeks before
the ground was clear again.
During our residence in Salt Lake City
we became very well acquainted with
several of the Saints over Jordan, the
Bennions, Harkers and others, and in the
spring of 1859 we moved to Taylorsville,
where we have since resided. My husband
died on the 23rd of November, 1881.
In the spring of 1883 I went to England
to see relatives and friends, and succeeded
in getting a great amount of genealogy,
and have ministered the ordinances for a
great many relatives and friends
Today I have living five children, fifty
grandchildren, thirty-six great grandchil-
dren, and am eighty years old.


MRS. JULIA WARD HOWE presided at
the reception and dinner of the Authors’
Club, at the Vendome, on January 6, and
the Marion Osgood Ladies’ Orchestra furn-
ished the music.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT. 107


GOD’S LOVE.

Could we with ink the ocean fill,
	Were all the earth of parchment made,
Were every single stick a quill, 
	And every man a scribe by trade,
To write the love of God above
	Would drain the ocean dry,
Nor could the scroll contain the whole,
	Though stretched from sky to sky.


WE’LL ALL TAKE A RIDE.

Our grandfather traveled on horseback,
	His rifle slung near to his hand—
'Twas back in the early twenties
	When wild creatures swarmed the land.
Our grandmother rode on a pillion,
	Her arms around grandfather’s waist,
And sometimes they tore through the forest
	In rather undignified haste.

Our father rejoiced in a wagon
	With thoroughbrace springs of the best,
And mother and children behind him
	Like birds cuddled down in a nest.
With buffalo robes tucked around them,
	A heated soap-stone at their feet,
They rode to the music of sleigh-bells
	When winter was paving the streets.

We call for a soft cushioned carriage,
	A phaeton, barouche or coupe,
Ashamed of the style of our fathers.
Ashamed of the wagon and sleigh,
Our children all mounted on “safetys,”
	Of various names and designs,
Roll by with a flash and a sparkle
	And beg us to “push on the lines.”

Our grandchildren—Ah, they will circle,
	Like birds, to and fro in the skies;
Will play with the fangs of lightning
	And laugh when Earth trembles and sighs;
They never need “wait for the wagon,”
Nor ever be left by the car,
But, mounting like eagles or angels.
	May challenge the speediest star. 

ISABEL DARLING.
Woman’s Tribune.


[Column 1]
	THE LAKES OF THE WASATCH.

   (Read at the U. W. P. C. January 31, 1900.)

    Whether in the delicate profusion of the
Spring’s flowery extravagance, or clothed in
the deep, rich green of Summer’s foliage,
in the gorgeous wealth of Autumnal colors,
or buried beneath the snowy silence of
Winter, the Wasatch mountains are beauti-
ful, sublime, inspiring; and high up ly-
ing in open dells between vast walls,
where the earth is intense with insect life
and flowery growth, are fairy lakes of mys-
tic depths, held fast in the rugged cradles
of these mountain ridges.
    Among the deep foliaged ravines the
shifting purple shadows fall upon the rifted
rocks, and in shafts of sunshine the lofty
pines glow with golden green, but in the
deepening shadows, dark, mysterious as
the closing shades of night. Here, bathed
in the breath of the warm, sweet earth
nature whispers her secrets and draws
from the heart its best and truest emotions.
From the sublime heights of Mt. Milli-
cent the lakes of the Wasatch present a
wondrous panarama, scattered here and
there like silver patches, studded with
bright jewels whose scintillating rays toss
and play as the sunbeams kiss their sur-
face, but when the mantle of twilight has
fallen upon mountain crest and valley, and
like a great ball of fire the moon rises, cast-
ing weird shadows over massive boulders,
silhouetting the pointed pines against the
shadowed azure of heaven, and moonbeams
dance and twinkle upon miniature waves,
’tis then nature betrays her subtle power,
her sublimest efforts.
   Silver Lake, nestling soft and tender be-
neath her overhanging crags, mingles the

[Column 2]
moist, fragrant grass upon her margin with
the flowery growth, luxuriant in the shad-
ows of the pungent pine. Upon her shim-
mering surface floats the raft of the patient
angler, and floating across the little valley
from mountain side to mountain side, are
the echoes of the smoking blast and falling
rock, the work of the ambitious and hope-
ful miner. From the border of the lake a
steep, threading pathway leads upward
along the dizzy, scraggy edge of Evergreen
Mountain, in and out by the tumbling
brook, up to its crystal source where two
peaceful lakes repose, separated only by a
grassy, fern-covered knoll, whereon still
stands a deserted log cabin, within whose
four rough walls one human heart lived
out its history of romance and tragedy.
    Greatly adding to the attraction of these
twin lakes and their surroundings, there
are many surprises—marshes and bits of
meadow, pebbly beach and rocky shore,
high reaching limbs of quaking asp and
cedar, of gentian and monks-hood.
    Seen from the narrow ridge above in the
near distance is Alta—poor, ill-fated Alta.
Hemmed in by precipitous mountains, ris-
ing in bleak majesty and clothed with
miners’ prospects, the little mining camp
bears the mark of toil and struggle, of fail-
ure and death. Crushed beneath the white
silence of relentless winter, rebuilt during
the hopeful days of summer, and after
struggle and struggle again,at last deserted.
    Hence to the left through gorge and
glade lies Lake Mary, queen waters of the
Wasatch. Rising from her central, subtle
depths is a rough hewn island of gray
granite, God’s own architecture. Here the
mountain winds sport with the spray, scat-
tering the cloud mist quivering with bril-
liant rainbow hues. The lake waters
crimsoned on one side with the sunset rays,
the other mantled in shadows cold and
green. Upon her borders the extremes of
nature meet, where the snowdrifts linger
through the dreamy summer the mottled
granite warms to life and bears the.sturdy
little buttercup and, too, drawn from
nature’s chociest chambers, are treasures
[-]are of bud and blossom, moss and fern.
Over the turreted little isle, almost sacred
in its isolation, clings a gauzy mist like a
bridal veil. Spalshing and gurgling
through the moss-lined crevices of the
broken massive rock above, filters a tiny,
musical stream, here a crystal cascade and,
there gathering strength in a ferny basin,
again to leap outward and onward, at
length reaching and mingling with the
sinking depths of the surrounding waters.
    With lingering footsteps one leaves this
little scene of enchantment to reach the
borders of unpretentious Phoebe Lake.
Placid and peaceful she lies, reflecting
within her mirror-like depths the downy
clouds of heaven’s archway, and the trees,
hill and mountain side in all their flower-
strewn beauty. Farther up and over the
highest Wasatch ridge are two compauions,
Martha and Katherine. Nearby the drifted
spots of snow remain from year to year, and
every whispering breeze breathes of quiet
and repose. There the wild cats cry and
the mountain call is tossed from hillside to
snowy crest, echoed and re-echoed again
and yet again.
    Lake Katherine, betraying neither source
or outlet, with her white, sandy beach, is
a miniature Pacific. The little black is-
land standing midway in her waters, like a
mimic Hawaii, with her extinct craters
and blackened lava. 

[Column 3]
    Scattered among the rocky terraces, and
nursed in the lap of peak and tower, surround-
de by the bluebell and graceful columbine are
lesser lakes, scarcely more than ponds, each
with possessions of its own. Among the
watery shadows of the little Dog Lake the
dogfish sport and play  Lake Solitude is
sombre, barren and lonely save for the
boom and crash along her crags, echo of
the blast from the home of the shining
metal. As seen from the summit of Mt.
Millicent, the sun slowly sinking, behind
the flaming mass, of scarlet clouds that
cluster along the borders of the horizon, the
picture is worthy the brush of a master-artist.
Could he but paint the reflection of the day
as it is caught upon the bosom of those
lakes, with the silvery sheen of their
burnished waters, it would make his fame
undying, his name immortal. The linger-
ing rays lightly and more lightly fondle the
miniature billows as if loth to take their
parting, but they vanish at length like
fairies of some magic past. When night is
at hand and the mantle of silence so great,
so solemn falls upon the scene, one can but
gaze with awe and enchantment and un-
consciously must lift the heart heavenward
as if to solve the mystery of nature’s won[-]
derful, flowery handiwork.
				M. A. J. LAMBERT.

		A GOOD LETTER.
	Snowflake, Arizona, Jan. 23, 1900.
Editor Woman's Exponent:
    It has been some time since anything
from the Snowflake Stake Relief Society
appeared in the columns of your valuable
paper, and it is doubtless about time for
us to contribute our “mite.”
    As a rule the society as a whole is fairly
well, though some branches are quite
small and the members feel discouraged.
In the forest, where the members usually
live at some distance apart, it is very
difficult to have a permanent organization.
There are some, however, less effected
with the moving fever, that are doing a
good work.
    During the past six months all the
branches in the Stake, with one exception,
have been visited by the Stake presidency.
The officers of the society did not visit
Tuba City, as it is such a great distance
that it is altogether impossible for women
to make the trip alone, hence it is slighted
more than it otherwise would be.
    The presiding sisters are feeling some-
what lonely, as one of their members,
Sister Mary. J. West, is now in Utah. She
has always been an able and energetic
leader, and, of course, her absence is
keenly felt;  yet our president, Sister
Emma S. Smith, is not the kind to be
easily discouraged, and she and her
counselor, Sister Sarah Driggs, are en-
deavoring to do all the good in their
power.
    We have an interest for the leading
sisters in this great work, and pray that
success will crown their endeavors to do
good. We would be pleased indeed if they
would make us a visit out here, for we
certainly need a little refreshing.
    Wishing you every success, I remain,
				DELLA F. SMITH, Sec.


Mrs. F. S. Richards, president of the
Utah State Council, and Mrs. Lucy A.
Clark, delegate, have returned from Wash-
ington. Mrs. Richards represented Utah
in the convention.


108															Woman's Exponent.
Woman's Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah,
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months.
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.

	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of lnonparie
space one time $2.50; per month. $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.

	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.

	Address all business communications to

					Mrs. E. B. WELLS.
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEB. 15 & MAR. 1, 1900


[Column 1]
THE SEVENTEENTH OF MARCH.

On Saturday, March 17, it will be fifty-
eight years since the Relief Society (which
has now attained such magnificent propor-
tions) was organized in the City of Nauvoo,
llinois. We speak of it as having been or-
ganized by President Joseph Smith, but
among the prime movers in this direction
we may look with a degree of honorable
pride to Sisters Sarah M. Kimball and Eliza
R. Snow. Sister Kimball and a maiden
lady residing with her, made some plans to
do benevolent work, and Sister Kimball
having a high regard for Sister Snow’s
judgment and ability, talked it over with
her, and it was agreed to speak to the
President of the Church of which they were
both zealous members. Accordingly Sister
Snow did so and he called together those
near at hand, brethren and sisters, and or-
ganized the Society.
He foresaw and foretold many things
concerning it which have since come to
pass, What that small beginning has been
to the women of Zion, from that day until
the present, in the development of activities
in many ways, and the awakening of
thought and defining of purpose, it is quite
impossible to tell in words. What it may
do in the great future, to which we look
with such earnest hopefulness, remains for
us who still live and labor, and the younger
women who will enlist in the work, to de-
termine by diligence and enterprise along
the lines of higher and nobler aspirations
and culture, than the world has yet attained.
That rapid progress is being made by
a large number of women in all civilized
lands, those who are not blinded by preju-
dice can plainly see. What has been
achieved in the last half century is sufficient
guarantee of what the next half century
must necessarily be ,in the ratio of even
modest calculation.
Therefore, it seems fitting indeed to cele-
brate the day when such a movement was
inaugurated, and to make it a day memor-
able in the minds of all who are within
reach. That the promoters of this move-
ment “builded better than they knew” is
easy for us to see who live today and have
had the great privilege of reaping where
they have sown. It is only proper that each
society, however small, commemorate the
day, making it such an occasion as seems
to them most suitable to their circumstances
in the respective locality. One suggestion

[Column 2]
might be made, however, that particular
respect be shown to the veteran workers in
the cause; and that mention be made in
some one of the addresses or speeches, of
the great advantages the Society has given
to its faithful members, and in promoting
and inculcating correct principles of life,
and of those virtues that ever shine
brightest in the human character.
The general instructions given at the
conference of the Relief Society, in October,
1898, will still apply to the keeping of the
day. It is essential that means be collected
in the various branches everywhere for
current expenses, and the small sum of ten
cents each was decided upon unanimously.
No institution great or small can be sus-
tained without money, and it is true that
hundreds of thousands of dollars in cash,
merchandise and produce has been donated
and disbursed during the time since the
Society was organized. Many industries
and enterprises have been fostered and en-
couraged for the sole purpose of aiding the
destitute, the needy, the sick and afflicted,
and to give labor to the unemployed.
Silk culture is one of the branches of in-
dustry the Society has aided in various
ways, and thousands of trees have been
planted and cocoons been raised and reeled
and woven, and in some instances spun,
etc., houses for meetings and the accomoda-
tion of the needy have been built, granar-
ies also in all of the Stakes of Zion. “Have
women built them ?” some people ask. We
answer “Yes, as Solomon built the Tem-
ple.” We need more of these, more halls
to meet in, more granaries for wheat, more
mulberry trees, more cocoons, more young
ladies to learn the art of reeling silk, and so
on, and then we need a house for general
purposes, where we can not only assemble
for meetings, receptions and lectures, but
where we can transact the business pertain-
ing to this great Society, and where we can
receive in a suitable manner persons of re-
nown who come from time to time to this
wonderful city. We believe the great, the
noble and the learned from various nations
will yet come here, many have already come
and we should prepare for the greater
things that the future is sure to bring. As
Dickens says, “How can we tell what com-
ing people are aboard the ships that may be
sailing to us now from the unknown seas.”
At all events, the Society wants a place
where records can be kept in safety, and
where our sisters who come from a distance
can get the information they require for the
furtherance of the work in their own local-
ity, where they can meet the general
officers and freely talk over and explain
matters of importance, or write letters when
sojourning here for a time. Club women
in many of the large cities have built such
places, and our Society is much larger and
of greater importance, for it is not only
national but international. There is no
reason why our light should be hid under a
bushel. “Let your light so shine that
others may see your good works.”


[Column 1]		
		EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Tuesday, January 6, Mrs. Emily S.
Richards, of this city, and Mrs. Lucy A.
Clark, of Farmington, started for Wash-
ing to to attend the convention of the
National American Woman's Suffrage
Association, and to be present at the birth-
day celebration of Miss Susan B. Anthony,
who will be eighty years old on February
15. Mrs. Richards represents the Utah

[Column 2]
State Council of Women as its president,
and Mrs. Clark as delegate. Mrs. Richards
has attended several conventions in Wash-
ington previously, but it is Mrs. Clark's first
visit to that city.
	THE Stake Secretaries of the Relief Soci-
ety of the several Stakes of Zion are hereby
reminded that a yearly report is expected of
them for the general report, from the begin-
ning of the year 1899, January 1st to Dec-
ember 31st, and that the report must be
in immediately, in order that the Gener-
al Secretary may have sufficient time
to make a correct report for the April Con-
ference. All branches of the Relief Society
not included in Stakes are also requested
to send a full report for the year, that a
complete report of the entire society may
be made, including branches, whether
in the United States or other countries, or
upon the islands of the sea. Address, Mrs.
E. B. Wells, Secretary, Templeton, Salt
Lake City, Utah.
	Mrs. Sophia Sharp and her daughter,
Mrs. James E. Jennings, gave a Kensington
at the latter's beautiful home on South
Temple, on Tuesday, February 6. The
rooms were very tastefully decorated, and
the ladies, many of them old friends and
acquaintances, enjoyed to the utmost the
pleasant afternoon. Here, too, there was
sport in guessing. A small wax candle had
been lighted, and each lady was asked to
guess how long it would burn; and a cup
was filled with small candy balls and the
ladies were asked to guess how many it
contained. It was very amusing to hear
the guesses made, most of them very wide
of the mark. One lady, however, secured
the prize and walked away when the party
was over carrying the china cup containing
the candy. Dainty refreshments were
served by young ladies and the conversa-
tion at the prettily arranged tea tables was
most interesting "over the tea cups." The
party was a great success, happiness was
depicted on every countenance, and the
pleasure was spontaneous and uninter-
rupted.
	Thursday, February 1, Mrs. Priscilla P.
Jennings and Mrs. Harold Jennings enter-
tained at a Kensington at the former's
handsome residence on South Temple. The
two ladies received their guests in the spa-
cious hall. About sixty ladies were pres-
ent. An amusing feature of the afternoon
was the guessing contest. A card with
ribbon attached was handed to each lady on
entering the room, with twenty numbers.
These figures represented the twenty pic-
tures that were being handed around, and
the one who could tell the largest number
of either the name of the picture of the
artist was to receive a prize. Mrs. Martha
B. Jennings won the prize. The rooms
were prettily decorated and flowers were
disposed in quaint and elegant vases and
the effect was charming. Delicious refresh-
ments were served in most hospitable fash-
ion. Mrs. Jennings is a very genial hostess,
one who knows well how to bring the right
people together. This is her first entertain-
[-]ent since her return from Europe, where
she visited, meantime journeying here and
there for two years. A good part of the
time was spent in Paris.


THE Woman Suffrage Association may
now discuss the question, “Are the men of
Kentucky too emotional to take part in
politics?”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 109


BIRTHDAY GATHERING.

Tuesday, February 8, 1898, was Siste
Elizabeth Pixton’s birthday, and the good
people of Taylorsville assembled in the
meeting house to do honor to the veteran
pioneer and noble worker in the interests of
Zion.
About three hundred people were pres-
ent. The hall was beautifully decorated
and a variety of flowers, including calla
lilies, were on the stand and elsewhere.
The sisters had taken great pains to have
everything in order for the enjoyment of
the guest of honor and her relatives and
friends.
A program had been arranged suitable for
the day, Brother Archibald Frame conduct-
ing the exercises. On the stand were
Bishop Heber Bennion and Counselors Wm.
Panter and W. H. Haigh, Elder Samuel
Bateman and Bishop J. S. Rawlins, Sister
Pixton, President Zina D. H. Young, Sis-
ters E. B. Wells, Margaret Spencer and
Mary Rawlins.
The choir and congregation sang “Our
mountain home so dear.” Prayer was
offered by Elder Bateman. The hymn
“We thank Thee, O God, for a prophet,”
was sung, after which remarks were made
by Bishop Bennion in praise of Sister
Pixton’s life and good works. He gave
some reminiscences of the early settlement
of the place that were quite humorous.
Next was instrumental music bv Miss
Daisie Pixton. Brother Haigh read a sketch
of Sister Pixton’s life which we publish on
another page. Miss Farrell and Laura
Pixton sang ‘‘After the Din of the Battle is
over,” etc., and Sister Young, who had
known Sister Pixton fifty years, spoke for
a few minutes, calling up many old mem-
ories.
Her speech was followed with a song by
Althea and Katie Pixton. a short speech by
Sister Wells, then a recitation by little
Hazel Pixton, “If the Dishes Would Only
Wash Themselves.” Next, remarks by
Sister Spencer, and after she concluded her
remarks an intermission was taken and a
sumptuous dinner was served in the large
hall to all the assembly.
The tables were decorated with flowers
and all the bounties of the earth, seemingly,
were supplied for the delectation of the
guests. Mrs. Pixton was seated in the
centre of the first table, at her left Mrs.
Young, on the right Mrs. Wells and Bishop
Bennion at the head of that table. When
all were seated at the three tables, about
one hundred and fifty, the Bishop asked
the blessing. The conversation at table
was mostly of the early days in the valley,
and the prosperity that had attended our
efforts in these vales.
The guests dispersed after having feasted
upon the good things with which the
tables were so bounteously supplied, and
the younger portion of the party filled the
tables again, while the older ones conversed
and enjoyed the hour in the exchange of
greetings, etc.
The program opened again after inter-
mission. Bishop Rawlins was the first
speaker, referred to Brother Pixton and the
settlements over Jordan, the Bennions,
Harkers and MacKays. Recitation by
Charlotte Harker Watts, “The Diamond
Wedding,” then a quartette, “My Own
Beloved Where’er I Wander,” and encore,
“Scatter Seeds of Kindness,” and next a
speech by Sister M. A. Webster, who has
long been associated with Sister Pixton in

[Column 2]
Society labors and as a neighbor. After-
wards a song by Mrs. Margetts Mulhall
and a recitation by Phillip Margetts, the
veteran actor, and a song by George Mar-
getts and others.
All those who spoke testified to the high
esteem in which Sister Pixton was held by
the community, her generosity to the poor
and needy, her liberality with her friends
and her devotion to the Latter-day work
were favorably commented upon.
One of her little grandchildren sent a
few childish verses which we give below.
Sister Pixton has been energetic, indus-
trious and faithful in all her duties as
mother, wife and friend, and certainly
“her works follow her.”
E. B. W.

Dear Grandma:
I cannot be with you on your birthday, I am
sorry to say,
But take pleasure in wishing you many happy
returns of the day. 
I understand you will be eighty years old,
And still one of the best workers of the world
I am told.
Give parties to your relatives, year by year,
Oh, grandma, to everybody you are very
dear,
And we hope you will live many years longer,
And gradually, get a little stronger. 
I know you have not an enemy all over the
place,
As far back as any of us would be able to
trace.
Come to town each week and act as meek and
mild,
And get around as though you were but a
child,
Always helping those out who are in need,
And in doing good things you are in the lead,
And now I will stop with love and best wishes,
And the family join me in sending you some
birthday kisses.

NAOMI VAN DYKE.


IN HONOR OF SISTER S. B. LAYTON.

   An enjoyable surprise party was given by
the officers and members of the Kaysville
Relief Society, on February 6, 1900, in
honorable remembrance of their worthy
president, Sister Sarah B. Layton.
   Sister Rachel Mansell gave a word of
welcome when Sister Ellen Barton and
Sister Josephine Ranch escorted Sister
Layton to an elegant wicker rocking chair,
which had been hidden from view.
   Sister Ada Williams made a beautiful
speech in behalf of the society: “We, the
officers and members of the Kaysville Relief
Society present to you this chair in loving
remembrance of your long and faithful
labors; and may you be permitted to re-
main with us for years to come and enjoy
this our gift. And when you are through
with it, may your children keep it in
loving remembrance of their mother.”
   Sister Layton has been an officer in this
society from its first organization, which is
thirty-two years. She has been a faithful
worker and a true friend to the poor.
   An excellent program was rendered,
after which a sumptuous repast was served,
when all chatted merrily until the shadows
of eve were beginning to fall, when all
dispersed, feeling that the time had been
well spent.				ANNIE.


MRS PHOEBE HEARST, of California,
maintains the Hearst free library and read-
ing room at Lead, S. D., paying all the ex-
penses. It contains 6,ooo volumes and is
largely patronized, although Lead is situ-
ated in the Black Hills region. Mrs.
Hearst is interested in the welfare of the
district, as she owns a large share of the
stock of the Homestake Mining Company.


A WEDDING ANNIVERSARY. 
Mrs. E. B. Wells:

	A family reunion was held at the resi-
dence of President David John, 145 South
J. St., Provo, February 8, the occasion be-
ing the fortieth anniversary of the marriage
of Mr. and Mrs. John. All their children
were present, and a few of their intimate
friends, numbering in all forty persons. A
delicious dinner of all the good things of
the season was partaken of at five p. m.
	The rooms were beautifully and taste-
fully decorated for the happy event, and
the bride was as charming and happy, if
not as young and blooming as forty years
ago. Such milestones on the journey of
life help to lift the burdens that are some-
times heavy as we tread the highway on-
ward, even though there is much daily
sweetness in association of kindred and
friends.
	All spent a pleasant afternoon in social 
chat, relating reminiscences of the past
which had cast their shadows on the future. 
One of their daughters, Mrs. Worsencroft,
represented the bride of forty years, and
Miss Emma John a bride of fifteen years,
and her other two daughters bridesmaids of
forty years.
	The following day, February 19, Mr. and
Mrs. John entertained their grandchildren,
numbering twenty, in a delightful manner,
in charge of their mammas. It was in-
deed a gala day for the little folks, and one
long to be remembered.
			ONE OF THE DAUGHTERS.


FROM PATH TO PATH.
THE EXPERIENCE OF A FEW YEARS.
		(Conclusion.)

	Just at this time my husband went out to
Indian Territory, where he had been twice
before to preach to the Cherokees. This
time he was told to take his family with
him, and this necessitated selling our
home, as the missionaries have to pay all
their individual expenses, and we had
mortgaged our cattle to go on the other
missionary trips. We went, and our cat-
tle all died, except three head, with Texas
fever. But that was not all. The whole
family took down with the ague and my
father, who came from the old country to
visit us, died with a paralytic stroke, so
that in six months we had had more trouble
on account of sickness than we had seen in
the fifteen years of our sojourn in Kansas.
We had experienced cyclones and draught,
but not anything like we were now passing
through.
	Finally we returned to Kansas, all too
weak to be able to wait upon one another,
and as this mission was not for any particu-
lar length of time, my husband was released.
The first thing we had to do on our re-
turn was to look around and try to secure a
home again, though we had to board until
such time as we received strength to help
ourselves. Our means being nearly ex-
hausted we were anxious to help ourselves
again, but my husband’s condition was
very serious, ashemorrahage of the bowels set
in before the ague left him, therefore he
was six months just able to crawl around.
However we all recovered with the excep-
tion of my second girl, who was four years
of age. She died with inflammation of the
bowels, ague fever and congestive chills,
and, as I have already stated, we lost my


[Column 1]
dear father. Cloud after cloud seemed to
be crowded over us till we almost despaired
and felt that truly we must be forsaken of
the Lord, as want was beginning to stare us
in the face and our home was gone. But
we never failed to ask aid of Him who had
so often heard our prayers.
Before long a man came to us and offered
to trade eighty acres of land that was
mortgaged, with a house on it, for a
beautiful stallion that we had. We were
only too glad to make the trade so that we
might get a home of our own once more.
Just previous to moving into our new
home some Utah Elders arrived and com-
menced a series of meetings, and finding us
out, they came to see us. One evening
when one of them called my husband was
just going to preside over a cottage meeting
so he invited the Elder to go with him,
telling him that if his partner who was
to assist him had no objection he would
invite him to speak, to which proposal they
both agreed, the Utah Elder being given
paxt of the time. And thus the Lord was
leading us from path to path, until such
time as we could discern the narrow way.
That night before they parted the Elder
asked the question which was a very im-
portant one to me and that proved a turn-
ing point in our lives. The question was
this: “Do you believe that Joseph Smith
was a true prophet of God?”
We replied that we knew it, and that we
knew the Book of Mormon to be of divine
origin. The Doctrine and Covenants we
had never heard of.
He then asked if we believed that the
Gospel was brought by the angel and was
never to be taken from the earth again ?
We said certainly we did. Then where
was the Gospel from the time of Sydney
Rigdon's death till William Bickersten or-
ganized his Church ?
That question disturbed us more than
anything had yet done. My husband
walked the floor till nearly midnight, and
within a week concluded to be re-baptized.
When I saw that he was determined to be
baptized, I said to him: “The Josephites
claim to be the Church, and we claim to be
the Church, and the Utah Elders claim they
are the only true Church. Don’t be in a
hurry. If we have been deceived we might
be again deceived.” But later when I
heard the principle of baptism for the dead
fell in love with the doctrine, for I had
been puzzled about the dead many times.
About this time a dream that I had had
when in great sorrow, on account of the
split in the faction, came to my mind again,
as it had often done since I began to under-
stand it, though I kept quiet and thought
would do nothing in haste. Meanwhile,
was glad to see the Elders, and felt there
was some affinity with them, as we all be-
lieved that Joseph Smith was our prophet.
asked one of them one day why he called
me sister when he believed I was in need of
baptism, and would have to be rebaptized
before I could unite as a sister.
“Well,” he said, “I think you will be a
full-fledged Mormon one of these days.
You know you are only a half-fledged Mor-
mon at present.”
To go back to my dream, which I could
not forget. I dreamed that I was on board
a ship, and I was sitting studying a book
when a violent storm arose, tossing the
ship with violence. I thought my husband
was one of the officers and was walking the
deck in a very excited manner, when an
old gentleman, who had been lying asleep

[Column 2]
on a narrow bed laid near me, rose up and
said to me, in a sweet voice: “Sister, do not
study so much, but rest. This ship is
going to pieces, but you will be saved.”
My husband then repeated the same words,
word for word: “Do not study, but rest,”
etc.
Well, I did rest, and it was not until I
heard sermons on the principle of baptism
for the dead that I felt that there was yet
something great and grand to receive, and
that the Utah Elders had something more
than the Bickerstens or Josephites had ever
been known to offer. So from that time on
became more zealous than ever to hear
the missionaries, so much so that one day
my daughter, noticing this fact, called me
out of the room when I was conversing
with them, to tell me to beware or I would
be caught in the net.
And so it was, by gaining here a little
and there a little, precept upon precept,
that all last I became not only willing, but
anxious to be caught in the Gospel net, be-
ing baptized by Brother Edwin Udall, who
also baptized my daughter a few weeks
later.
After these Elders had been released my
two eldest boys were baptized by Brother
Taylor, whose home was at Harris-
ville. Both these missionaries have
since been laid away to rest from their
labors. The amount of fruits that will be
brought forth from their labors will not be
known in this life, but we know their works
do follow them. This is why we never
forget to pray for our missionaries. We
know they need patience, they need cour-
age, they need good health. They have to
pass through many trials, and those who
will not be humble enough to receive them
and accept the healing balm, that they may
be healed of the poisonous errors that they
have imbibed from their infancy, will con-
tinue to grow worse, and they will grow
worse, and they will rage and foam until
they become a wonder to themselves, not
knowing what ails them.
May you and I, dear readers, continue to
be led as little children; for unless one be
comes as a little child, he or she will not
enter the kingdom of heaven. If we are
faithful to the end, the trials and tribula-
tions we have passed through will appear
as mere trifles as we become worthy to hear
the words:
Well done, good and faithful servant, thou hast
been faithful over a few things enter thou into the
joy of thy Lord.
LITTLE SISTER.


110 WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
PAROWAN STAKE. 
The Relief Society Conference of the
Parowan Stake of Zion was held in Cedar
City, Feb. 8, 1900, President Mary Ann
Lunt presiding. There were present of the
presiding authorities: Uriah T. Jones,
president of the Stake, and counselors,
Francis Webster and Bishop W. H. Corray
and counselors, and also some other breth-
ren.
Conference commenced by singing “Come
let us anew.” Opening prayer was offered
by Lehi W. Jones. Singing, “Let Zion in
her beauty rise.”
President Lunt was pleased to see so
many present, and hoped we would have a
good conference. Thought it best to hold
our conference every three months, and
prayed the Lord to bless us through this
conference.

[Column 2]
The reports were then given by the local
presidents or counselors; they were very
encouraging. The sisters held their meet-
ings regularly, had a good attendance and
were united. A good spirit prevailed
among them, and the sisters expressed a de-
sire to do their duty.
Bishop William A. Cory encouraged the
sisters in the good work they were per-
forming. Spoke at some length upon the
training of our children and urged the
parents to set a good example before them.
Bore his testimony to the work we are en-
gaged in.
Counselor Francis Webster knew the
Gospel to be the pearl of great price. Said
we learned very slowly, line upon line and
precept upon precept. Urged parents to
train their children in the Gospel. He was
proud to be a member of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Morning session closed by singing “Sa-
lem’s bright King, Jesus by name.” Bene-
diction by Peter Wimes.
Conference reconvened at 2 o’clock.
Singing, “God moves in a mysterious
way.” Prayer by Elder Richard Palmer.
Singing, “God spake the word and time
began.”
The statistical and financial reports were
then read and accepted and the General and
Stake officers were sustained. There was a
change in the Stake secretary. Sister
Clark has a large family of small children
and it was deemed wise to release her,
which was done and a vote of thanks given
her for past services.
Sister Caroline K. Jones was then sus-
tained as Stake secretary.
Counselor Annie Ward bore testimony
that the sisters were being awakened to the
spirit of knowledge. Encouraged the
sisters in their labors.
Counselor Annie E. Webster spoke upon
the storing of grain and urged the sisters
to be wide awake in looking after and in
instructing their children; for the kingdom
of God would eventually rest upon them.
Bore a strong testimony to the truth of this
work.
President Lunt felt to endorse all that had
been said, and encouraged all to live pure
and happy lives.
President Uriah T. Jones endorsed the
excellent remarks that had been made and
hoped all would be converted to the teach-
ings that had been put forth. Said we
should devote our time and energy for the
benefit of our children. Thought mothers
should have a good education, so they can
bring up their families intelligently and to
the best advantage. Prayed the Lord to
bless the Relief Society.
Conference adjourned by singing the
hymn “Awake, ye Saints of God awake.”
Benediction by Brother Joseph Hunter.
CAROLINE K. JONES, Sec.
BANNOCK STAKE.
Minutes of the Relief Society conference
of Bannock Stake, held at Lund Ward,
November 18, 1899, at 10 o’clock a. m.,
President Mary A. Call presiding. Sing-
ing, “O my Father.” Prayer by Bishop F.
H. Reddish. Singing, “We thank Thee,
O God, for a prophet.” Minutes of last
morning session of conference held at Trout
Creek Ward, were read and accepted.
The following wards were represented:
President Columbia Loveland, Chesterfield
Julia Pond, Thatcher; Letetia Banks,
Lund; Christina Higgenson, Hatch; Ellen


[Column 1]
Cramer, Lund branch. All the branches
were in a good thriving condition. No
grain has been received as yet on account
of frost.
President Mary A. Call felt weak in ad-
dressing the conference. We cannot have
visiting sisters with us from Salt Lake at
every conference, as the expense is too
great but through a full payment of the
ten cent fund we can have one visit once a
year, and thus receive instructions direct
from headquarters. Felt that the sisters
had responded nobly to the call for funds to
assist the nursing class, which had been
advised by the General Board for the
benefit of ours and the Pocatello Stakes, as
well as all the other Stakes of Zion. Felt
that, through having had such excellent
success, the Lord had been pleased with the
undertaking. Testified to the good results al-
ready received by her own family, and en-
couraged the sisters to be united in all
things calculated to advance temporally as
well as spiritually.
Counselor Sarah M. Call said she was
pleased to have had the privilege of attend-
ing the General Conference at Salt Lake
City, and felt that our Stake was in touch
with Relief Society work after comparing
our condition with reports from other
Stakes. Encouraged the sisters to pay
tithing and advised the necessity of holding
fast meetings occasionally in the different
branches, as it gave an increased flow of
the Spirit of God in our midst.
Counselor Rosa B. Knowles gave an ac-
count of her labors in the nursing class. She
took a great delight in her labors, though a
very great amount of difficulty had had to
be overcome to accomplish this work, on
account of having a large family of small
children and having been in poor health.
Though she had received knowledge, she
would yet be unable to accomplish the good
necessary without the united faith and
prayers of her sisters. Desired to go forth
as a nurse in obstetrics in faith and humil-
ity, and exercise her faith in behalf of the
other sisters who had taken the course at
Soda Springs, she having graduated at the
same time with Sister Christina Higginson
at Pocatello.
Sister Emma Toone, one of the Soda
Springs class graduates, said that she had
been greatly blessed in her efforts. Re-
joiced that she had responded to the call
made of her to take the course, for it de-
volves upon some one to do this work, and
she felt thankful to have been worthy of
such a mission and that she had been so
successful in her studies. Bore testimony
that Dr. Ellis R. Shipp had accomplished
a great work in giving us this knowledge
to do so much good among our mothers in
the Stake. Earnestly asked the assistance
of the faith and prayers of the Saints in the
Stake in her own and other nurses behalf.
Mentioned a movement that had been sug-
gested of forming a nursing class for the
purpose of meeting with the other sisters
who had graduated in the Stake and
instructing each other in their continued
study of this branch of knowledge.
President Mary A. Call felt that she
must express her thankfulness and satis-
faction in listening to the testimonies of the
nurses.
Bishop F. H. Reddish bore testimony to
the willingness and usefulness of the Relief
Society sisters in his ward. Realized that
the sisters work under greater difficulties
than the brethren to be able to accomplish
their work and must consequently practice

[Column 2]
great sacrifice, through which our greatest
blessings are received, accompanied by faith
and humility and a disposition to submit
ourselves to those in authority. No great
good is ever accomplished without oppo-
sition. We need still more nurses in our
midst.
Meeting adjourned until one o’clock p. m.
Singing, “Come let us anew.” Benedic-
tion by Elder John Knowles.
Minutes of afternoon session of Bannock
Stake conference, November 18, 1899,
President Mary A. Call presiding. Singing,
“Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation.”
Prayer by Julia Pond. Singing, “Earth
with her ten thousand flowers.” Minutes
of afternoon session of last conference were
read and accepted. Officers’ meeting, all
funds reported. Officers of the General
and Stake Board were presented and ac-
cepted.
President Mary A. Call explained the
object of membership fees. Advocated sub-
scriptions to the EXPONENT, in order to
keep posted on the affairs of women, and to
sustain it as the organ of the Relief Society.
Advised mothers to look after the welfare of
their children, especially at the time for
them to choose companions for life. Girls
from sixteen to twenty years of age need to
be preparing themselves for the responsibi-
lities of motherhood, rather than to be per-
forming that duty without a proper knowl-
edge.
Sister Dorthea Lau represented the Soda
Springs ward. Though a small society,
they have ample opportunity of doing
good.
Christina Higginson, a graduate of the
nurses class, heartily endorsed the labors of
Dr. Ellis R. Shipp and felt that she was a
true Saint and an excellent teacher of her
profession, and she felt to recognize the
authority by which the doctor had been
sent to us.
Sisters Mary E. Parker, Julia Pond,
Brother P. P. Lexemberg and Sister Edleff-
sen each spoke of the necessity of giving
our children a proper training, of informing
ourselves by reading good books, that we
may teach them according to the mind and
will of God, for he will not hold us guilt-
less for neglect in this line. We as
parents must encourage the Primary Asso-
ciation workers, for their interest and ours
cannot be separated. Many mothers wear
out their bodies in their efforts to look after
their children’s physical welfere and grosely
neglect their moral and spiritual training.
Let us teach our children to pray, pay tith-
ing, love their meetings and honor the
priesthood, and great will be our joy and
satisfaction in raising up a righteous pos-
terity to the Lord.
A paper was read by the secretary en-
titled “The Origin and Destiny of Woman.”
After closing remarks by Counselor Sarah
M. Call, conference was then adjourned
for six months.
Singing, “The Spirit of God like a fire is
burning. Benediction by Mary A. Tol-
man.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.										111


MRS. MARY LOWE DICKINSON, of the
National Council of Women, finding that
there was danger of a deficit in the treas-
ury, promptly contributed $450, which put
the balance on the right side.
	THE South African war is costing
England about $5,000,000 a week. If the
economical and housekeeping sex had the
Parliamentary vote, it is likely that they
would object to so large a butcher’s bill.


OBITUARY.

		JULIA IVINS MCDON4LD PACE.
 
   A womanly woman; what more can we say ?
Has passed from the gloom to the beautiful day;
As such she was greeted, and if women we be,
As such we shall know her eternally.
  
   Death comes to all, but never does it come with
more crushing sadness than when a mother is sud-
denly called from home and little ones; and when
to the noble qualifications of wife and motherhood
is added marked ability and a desire to be helpful
to one’s fellow creatures, then indeed is the blow
twofold,
   Such a woman was Julia Ivins McDonald Pace,
who was unexpectedly called away in the prime of
womanhood, while her babe was sleeping upon
her arm. So far as health would permit she had
been an active worker in many associations,
having been connected at different times with the
Primary, Young Ladies and Relief Society organ-
zations. She was also secretary of the Silk Asso-
ciation of St. George. Earlier in life she went to
Ann Arbor to study medicine, but her health fail-
ing her, she returned home, not being able to
complete the course.
   She was a charter member of the Utah Woman’s
Press Club, and a member of the Committee on
Bylaws, her home being in Salt Lake City at the
time of its organization; and although later she
moved to St. George, we were proud to retain her
as an honorary member.
   She was a writer of no mean order, having
written many excellent papers for the club and for
the press. Her stories, too, may be found in
many of our home publications.
   Our beloved sister, now deceased, was born
December 2, 1859, and died January 17, 1900.
She is the first member of the Press Club called 
away by death.

Methinks that I see the Books opened,
And an angel the pages turn o’er.
Till he comes to her name, when he pauses—
“Sainted woman, thou’lt sorrow no more;
Thy life has been weighed in the balance,
Which tipped at the mark of pure gold,
By thy name is recorded most worthy,
‘Enter into the joy of thy Lord.’ ”
RUTH M. FOX,
ROMANIA B. PRATT,
LUCY A. CLARK,
Committee.
Resolutions of Respect.
Passed out of regard for the memory of
				a good woman.

   WHEREAS, Our Heavenly Pather in His infinite
wisdom, has deemed it best to call unto Himself
our beloved co-worker, Julia A. McDonald Pace,
who recently departed this life in St. George
Utah; and
   WHEREAS, She has been suddenly removed from
us in the prime of a useful life, wherein all the
powers of her talented mind and sympathetic
heart, over-taxed her physical endurance, in her
devotion to the cause of truth and the building up
of God’s kingdom upon the earth, therefore be it
   RESOLVED, That the General Board of the
Primary Association bow in humble submission to
the will of the Great Creator.
   RESOLVED, that we deeply regret the loss of her
valued counsels and zealous labor, in behalf of
the Primary children of Zion.
   RESOLVED, That we extend to her family our
heartfelt sympathy in their bereavement. 
   RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
placed upon our records, one sent to the Deseret
News and Woman’s Exponent for publication, and
one presented to the sorrowing family.
LOUIE B. FELT, President,
MAY ANDERSON, Secretary.


LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING. 
	The Ladies Semi-Monthly Meeting was 
held in the 14th Ward Assembly Hall,
Saturday, February 17, 1899, Counselor 
Elizabeth J. Stevenson presiding.
	Meeting opened with singing. Prayer 
by Sister Julia C. Howe. 
	Remarks were made by Sister Stevenson
on the great blessings we enjoy. She had 
just returned from visiting in the Pocatello 
Stake, and had found a great feeling of 
unity and love. One of the presidents said


[Column 1]
she and her counselors personally visited
the poor.
	Sister Mary Silver said we were greatly
blessed in many ways, that she thought it a
great privilege we had in using the oil in
administering to our children.
	One sister testified that she had been
healed of asthma and also partial paralysis
by the administration of the Elders. Knew
of many others who were also healed.
Hoped she might continue faithful and do
her duty.
	Sister Martha Morris then sang, very
sweetly, “O Jesus, the Giver.”
	President M. I. Horne was thankful that
we could meet and testify of the power of
healing. All were not healed in Christ’s
time. A promise is made that if our time
has come we will be taken, if not, we will
live if we believe. Advised the sisters to
use mild herbs and not depend so much on
physicians. She had raised her own chil-
dren through the laying on of hands and
also using herbs. The prophet said the
sisters had the privilege of administering
and no matter who believeth these signs,
such as healing the sick, etc., should follow.
Should we not prize these blessings? Are
we living so that we can claim these bless-
ings? Let us put our trust in our heaven-
ly Father. Spoke of the promises made
through keeping the Word of Wisdom and
of cultivating faith. Do not fear when
diseases are around, we must expect them,
but trust in the Lord and all will be well.
Referred to the late Apostle F. D. Richards,
who was a faithful, humble, true Latter-
day Saint; and also Brother Goddard, who
had done a great work in the Sunday
Schools. The Saints should be cheerful
and happy. Let those who give, give
freely and cheerfully. Believed much good
would be accomplished through the divi-
sion of the Stake, in waking the people up
and making them more energetic. She had
felt at first that it was like a mother losing
her children, had very little trouble in this
Stake, some were energetic, while others
were as if they were in a rut. Today is a
proving day, not of many words, but a day
of warning. Spoke on Sabbath breaking.
One circumstance she had never spoken of
in public, but felt it her duty to do so. At
the time the Gospel was brought to Canada
Sister Walton opened her house for Elder
P. P. Pratt to hold the meetings in. While
the prophet was in Toronto, Canada, visit-
ing the Saints, there was a special meeting
called at Sister Walton’s home present were
John Taylor and wife, John Snyder and
wife, Joseph Horne and wife, Sydney
Rigdon, Thomas B. Marsh, Joseph Field-
ing and his two sisters, Mary and Mercy.
They asked the prophet to relate the visit of
the angel to him. His countenance lit up
and shone by the influence of the Holy
Ghost while he related to us the incidents
connected with the restoration of the Gos-
pel, especially that relating to the visit of
the angels, etc.” “I am the only one now
living of those present on that occasion.”
	Sister Witdsoe felt the influence of the
Spirit. She was thankful to hear Sister
Horne’s testimony. Spoke of keeping the
Word of Wisdom, little by little if we
could not all at once.
	Sister Butterworth thought we if could so
live that our guardian angel would prompt
us what to do in sickness. Another sister
thought the Lord blessed His daughters as
well as His sons. She was the only one o
a large family who had embraced the Gos

[Column 2]
pel. It is not those who do well for a sea-
son, but those who endure to the end.
	Sister Margaret Nightingale had felt
greatly disappointed when she had come to
meeting and found the door shut. Felt to
appreciate these meetings, and wished to be
a true Latter-day Saint. Remarks were
also made by a sister who had been at the
organization of the Granite Stake.
	Sister Howe said her heart went out in
regard to faith, she had been healed by the
administration of her sisters. Our prayers
will be answered if we ask in faith. Said
Sister Lydia D. Alder sent her love to all.
She was filling a good mission, her heal[-]h
is not excellent. She would like all the
sisters to remember her.
	A sister had lost her only child, but had
been blessed and comforted by Apostle
Taylor. Testified that this was the work of
God.
	Sister Martha Morris sang, “Let us pray,
gladly pray.”
	President Horne notified the sisters that
our conference would be held in the 14th
ward Assembly Hall, Saturday, March 3.
Thought it advisable to have the officers of
the Relief Society of this Stake meet here
once a month. The other meeting would
be for the public. Adjourned meeting
for four weeks.
		A. T. HYDE, Sec. pro tem.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A PLEASANT REUNION.
	A reunion of the branches of the Relief
Society of the St. Joseph Stake was held in
Pima, Saturday, January 6, 1900. There
was a good attendance, every society being
represented with the exception of St.
David and Franklin, from which, on ac-
count of the distance, no one was present.
	A well arranged and appropriate pro-
gram was rendered, consisting of songs,
recitations and music, also speeches by
President Udall, of the St. John’s Stake,
Patriarch Claridge and others, after which
lunch was served to two or three hundred
people.
	In the evening a dance was given which,
under the able management of Professor
Emile Maeser, proved to be profitable as
well as pleasant. All returned to their
homes feeling reunited indeed.
			SARAH WEBB, Sec. R. S.


[Column 1]
90% OF AMERICAN WOMEN
wash dishes three times each day. If you are one
of these, wear a pair of “Goodyear” Rubber
Gloves and always have soft, white hands. Sent
by mail postpaid, on receipt of $1.59 Agents
wanted. Address, M. O. Dept.,
M. F. Reese Supply Co., Setauket, N. Y.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail.
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

[Column 2]
[logo of a shield]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD’S PICTORIAL LINE.

[to the right of the logo]
THE PEOPLE’S FAVORITE.

			Leave Salt Lake City
No. 6	The “Fast Mail” for Chicago, St. Paul, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and
		Park City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7 00 a.m.
No. 2	The “Overland Limited” for Chicago, St.
		Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
		Denver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	11 45 a.m.
No. 4	The “Atlantic Express” for Chicago, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver .	6 40 p.m.

			Arrive Salt Lake City.
No. 5	The “Fast Mall” from Chicago, St. Louis,
		Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and Park
		City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3 00 p.m.
No. 1	The “Overland Limited” from Chicago, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver .	3 00 p.m.
No. 3	The “Pacific Express” from Chicago, St.
		Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
		Denver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3 30 p.m.
CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 Main St.		Telephone 665.
					H. M. CLAY, General Agent.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
		LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

The Most Convenient Local Train Service
in the State is given by the . . . . . .
OREGON SHORT LINE
	RAILROAD.
FIVE Fast Daily Trains Each Way between
Salt Lake City and Ogden . . . . . .

See that your tickets read via the
	“SHORT LINE”
			And Get the best.
CITY TICKET OFFICE for tickets to all points, 100 West
Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.

S. W. ECCLES,		D. E. BURLEY,
	Gen’l Tfc. Mgr.		G. P. & T. A


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 28		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15 & APRIL 1, 1900.		Nos. 20 & 21.


CONTENTS.
Results of the Revolution . . . . Mabelle Snow	113
Thomas Jefferson . . . . . . . . Annie W. Cannon	113
The Rise of the Relief Society . M. A. W. Pratt	115
The New Stake. . . . . . . . . . . . . C. A. S. Young	115
Anniversary Meeting at Provo . . . . C. B. Pratt	115
R. S. Reports—Salt Lake Stake . . . . . . . . . . . .	117
	Los Angelos . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	118
Farewell Surprise Party. . . . . . . . . Little Sister	119
Obituary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	119
George Washington Association, K. H. Ward .	119
Resolutions of Respect . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	119
R. S. Granite Stake. . . . . . . . Celestia A. Young	120
EDITORIAL—Relief Society Conference Notice	116
	Our New Possessions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	116
	Editorial Notes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	116
POETRY—The Sparrow’s Mission . M. F. Kelly	113
	A Hymn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . L. D. Alder	115


[Column 1]
THE SPARROW’S MISSION.

Seated alone at my window
	Gazing down on the street, 
I watched the people passing,
	And heard the dull tramp of their feet.
But my heart was o’erwhelmed with sorrow,
	As I cried in my agony,
“Father amid these many millions,
	Tell me, canst Thou know of me?

“Can every one of thy children,
	Claim a share of Thy love?
Can a prayer of mine ascend
	To Thy home in the realms above?”
And my heart was o erwhelmed with longing,
	So I cried in my agony,
“Father, amid these many millions,
	Tell me, dost Thou care for me?”

Just then a sparrow descended,
	Perched on my window sill,
And chirped as he flew away,
	His mission of love to fulfill.
But the bird had taught me a lesson,
	A message from heaven to me,
The Father who cares for the sparrows,
	Does know and will care for thee. 
				MARY F. KELLY.

RESULTS OF THE REVOLUTION.
	(Read at a meeting of the Daughters of the Re-
volution.)
	The revolution in 1776 was one of the
most important events in human history.
It related not only to the freedom from
tyranny of the people who took the initia-
tive and carried it to a successful issue, but
to the liberties ot the human race as a
whole. The history of the world from then
to the present proves this, if it proves any-
thing.
	This momentous occurrence produced
the most perfect basis upon which to build
a beneficient governmental superstructure—
the American Constitution. It has no
counterpart in human affairs. It provides
to the individual citizen the fullest possible
freedom, the most ample personal protec-
tion and the complete security of legal
property possession. It is the basis guar-
anty of exact equality before the law,
without classified distinctions. Hence the
American nation is composed of the most
independent and, therefore, the most strong-
ly individualized race on the face of the
earth today, with a record for progress that
has no parallel.
	The leaven of the American Revolution
and its results have not been combined
within the borders of this nation, but have
stimulated emulation in every civilized
country, and a degree of its genius has

[Column 2]
even been carried into nations hitherto en-
veloped in the shroud of absolute barbarism.
	But perhaps the most striking beneficient
effects have been produced upon the nation
from which the American colonies revolted
—the kingdom of Great Britain. This
nation is now but a monarchy in name.
The estimable lady who nominally occu-
pies the throne of the British empire is
practically subject to the will of the minis-
terial government, her prerogatives of
sovereignty being mostly mere matters of
form.
	Similar changes in a more modified de-
gree have been developed in all of the
great nations, even among those which
were heretofore unqualifiedly despotic.
The central course of this remarkable ten-
dency toward popularization of rule is com-
prised in the American Revolution; and its
results—the production of the constitution,
the development of institutions of govern-
ment in harmony with that magnificent
basis, and the progressive effects upon the
nation.
	The history of American institutions
shows that every impediment to the devel-
opment of human liberty, as embodied in
our national system, must, in the process of
Divine adjustment of human affairs, sooner
or later be swept out of existence—hence
the civil war of 1861. Its first result was
the preservation of the Union; its second,
the abolition of slavery. The removal of 
that blot upon our escutcheon made the
great Republic consistent within itself, and
placed it in a position to champion, when
necessary, the cause of the oppressed out-
side of its own border, as well as within the
circle of its own domain.
	The nation may pass through many nar-
row places in the future. Trial is a de-
veloper of national as well as Individual
character, but every barrier to her progress
will be surmounted.
	Her past shows that her destiny is to
continue to be the central light of good
government to all the world.
			MABELLE SNOW.


[Column 1]
THOMAS JEFFERSON.
(Read at a meeting of the D. A. R.)
	For the fulfillment of great purposes 
great men are born; and who questions the
idea that the immortal Washington and his 
brilliant and courageous colleagues were pre-
destined for their wonderful careers. Where 
in history can a similar fate to that of 
Washington be found? How he was pro-
tected through the long, fierce struggle of 
the Revolution, both from the enemy’s
fire and the dangers of the camp, though 
he shared all the privations and terrors
with his soldiers and stood always in the 
front of battle, often between the lines 
with fierce and dreadful firing on both sides
yet escaped unharmed, unscathed. His
coat of mail was neither steel, such as was 
worn by the warrior knights of old, nor 
stitched with threads of sorceries and super-
stition, like the knights of mythical legends, 
but an armor of a faith sublime; and a 
knowledge that his cause was just, made 
him invulnerable.

[Column 2]
	Washington stands in the vast firmament 
of American history the brightest star, but 
around his name cluster such a brilliant 
constellation of names as to illumine 
the path of our history for ages yet to 
come, and not the least brilliant of these 
is the subject of this sketch—Thomas Jeffer-
son.
	The only difficulty arising when writing 
a simple sketch of Jefferson is to know 
what not to tell, as for more than forty 
years, from youth to extreme old age, years 
when America was making most wonderful 
history, he was one of the most active and 
notable of Americans. 
	A certain fascination and romance is al-
ways associated with the military, and 
doubtless the most daring and brilliant 
heroes of the Revolution were the men who 
surrounded Washington on the battlefield, 
but in the making of a country the scholar 
and statesman is quite as necessary as the 
soldier, if not more so. It is the mind that 
guides the army, after all, and to quote an 
old familiar phrase, “The pen is mightier 
than the sword.”
	The one statesman above all others to 
whom this country is forever and ever in-
debted is Thomas Jefferson. Jefferson’s
father, Peter Jefferson, with a few other 
pioneers, doubtless anticipating the advice 
of Horace Greely, “to go west and grow up 
with the country,” had left the settlements 
along the James river and taken up home-
steads in a then unoccupied and almost un-
known land, along the Rivama river, just 
east of the Blue Ridge mountains, and here 
on this estate, named Shadwell, Thomas 
Jefferson was born, and here he lived as a 
child, boy and man, with but temporary 
interruptions, for 27 years. For a boy 
born in a wilderness he enjoyed remarkable 
advantages. His biographers tell us he had 
good English at five, Latin, Greek and 
French at nine, regular classical studies at 
fourteen, a college course at seventeen and at 
twenty-four he was admitted to the bar.
	His personal appearance at this time is 
described as six feet two inches in height, 
slim, erect as an arrow, with regular 
features, a very ruddy complexion, an ex-
tremely delicate skin, full, deep-set hazel
eyes and sandy hair. He was more a stud-
ent than an athlete, yet he possessed a pas-
sionate love of nature and took the greatest 
delight in horsemanship. Though an ardent
student, he was not necessarily a book-
worm, but, on the contrary, was fond of 
society. He was an expert musician, the
violin being his favorite instrument, was a 
good dancer and a daring rider.
	His devotion to home life and the build-
ing of his beautiful and famous home of 
Monticello reads like a romance. He had 
his first love affair during his college years.
It was, however, unsuccessful, but it stirred
“his sympathetic nature to its profoundest
depths.” However, he recovered from this
disappointment and later very happily mar-
ried a beautiful, accomplished and wealthy
widow, Mrs. Martha Skelton, whose wealth 
greatly aided him in carrying out his plans 
for the home and estate of Monticello, but 
she did not live to see them all fulfilled. 
	A few words about this beautiful, historic


[Column 1]
home would not be out of place here, for it 
occupied almost all the spare moments of 
thought from public life of its owner. Even 
to this day it is considered a work of art 
and wonderful ingenuity. It stands on a 
hill known as Little Mountain, overlooking 
the whole estate. Mr. Jefferson began the 
building of this home before the Revolu-
tion, but so many interruptions occurred 
that it scarce deserved the name of a home 
until after twelve years labor, in 1782 the 
Marquis de Chalellux paid Jefferson a visit 
and thus describes the house: “The house
Monticello,—of which Mr. Jefferson was 
the architect, and often one of the work-
men—is rather elegant and in the Italian 
taste, though not without fault.” Then
after describing the different rooms he 
further says: “We may safely aver that 
Mr. Jefferson is the first American who has 
consulted the fine arts to know how to shel-
ter himself from the weather.” But in 
course of time the house changed entirely 
and became from a plain Italian villa a
spreading country mansion of twenty 
rooms, with Greek porticoes and an octa-
gonal dome with very solid brick walls, 
strong frame work, good floors, a great pro-
fusion of elaborate trimming and full of his 
quaint and strongly original devices.
	The designing of this house was a labor
of love, and here, when free from public
duties, Jefferson lived, the cherished mem-
ber of a wide circle of friends, the head and 
center of a numerous family group, and 
here were entertained, with the grace and 
hospitality of a true Virginia gentleman,
the most noted people of our own land, and 
the most distinguished writers from foreign
lands. The conduct of this home life clear-
ly illustrates the fact that the artistic and 
poetic temperament dominated, not only
his youth, but his whole life.
	As Thomas Jefferson’s home-life was 
ideal and a beautiful example to young 
America, far more so was his public career, 
For over forty years he served his country 
as legislator, governor, congressman, minis-
ter plenepotentiary, cabinet officer, vice-
president and finally president.
	The most noted work of his life, and the 
one that has immortalized his name and 
cherished it in the hearts of the American
people, is, of course, the Declaration of In
dependence. It is a simple matter of his-
tory, probably, which every school child 
knows, and yet, surely sufficiently impor-
tant and interesting to bear repeating how 
the Declaration was prepared: Jefferson
was named a delegate to the General Con-
gress where he took his seat eight days after 
Colonel Washington had been appointed by 
Congress commander-in-chief of the colo-
nies, and he was placed upon the committee 
to draw up a statement of the causes which 
had impelled the colonies to take up arms 
against the mother country, upon another
committee to report upon Lord North’s con-
ciliatory proposition, when in the winter of 
1775-6 the news arrived from England that 
the king had denounced the colonists as 
rebels, and the law confiscating American 
vessels and cargoes, and the impressment 
of American crews into the British navy 
was authorized, the colonies became more 
united, and on the 11th of June, 1776, Con-
gress appointed Jefferson, Adams, Franklin, 
Sherman and Livingstone to prepare a
Declaration of Independence. Jefferson, at
the request of his associates, prepared a
draft of the Declaration, which, after two
or three verbal corrections by them, was

[Column 2]
taken up for consideration in the House on 
the 2nd of July.
	In the debates on the Declaration Jeffer-
son took no part, “thinking it a duty to 
be, on that occasion, a passive auditor of the 
opinions of others, more impartial judges
than he could be of its merits or demerits.”
Two or three expressions had been made 
which gave offense to some members, the 
words of “Scotch and other foreign auxili-
aries” were resented by some delegates of 
Scottish birth; and the strictures on the
king’s repeated veto of colonial law which 
permitted the slave trade, were disapproved 
by some of the southern delegates. 
	On the evening of the Fourth of July, 
1776, the Declaration was reported back 
from the committee of the whole House 
and agreed to. Thus was framed and 
passed the document which circumstances
have given an importance possessed by no 
other production of an American pen. It is 
regarded as the weapon that dismembered a 
great empire and that gave birth to the 
grandest of nations. For more than a cen-
tury on each anniversary of its adoption it 
has been read to assembled multitudes, and 
its style and sentiment are a model for 
every people which seeks for itself the 
right of self-government. Jefferson him-
self requested “that his tombstone should 
testify it to be the greatest achievement of 
his life.’’ Had others of these early leaders
possessed the sagacity and forethought of 
Jefferson it is more than probable that the 
sorrow and despair of the great civil war
would have been averted, for in the original 
draft of the Declaration there was a clause 
abolishing slavery. Then in the Virginia
legislature he introduced a law which was 
finally passed, prohibiting the further im-
portation of slaves into the state, and in 
Congress, 1783, he introduced a clause pro-
viding that after the year 1800 of the Chris-
tian era, there should be neither slavery 
nor involuntary servitude in any of the 
states, otherwise than the punishment of 
crimes whereof the party shall be duly con-
victed to have been personally guilty.”
And it is a fact that though he was fired 
with the Virginia passion for acquiring 
land he did not try to increase his slaves,
and never owned sufficient number to 
properly care for and till his large posses-
sions. Neither by purchase or investment
did he ever acquire slaves, possessing only 
those inherited from his father’s and wife’s
estates. On this question his own words 
are the best illustration of the depth of his 
feelings; he said: “I tremble for my country
when I think that God is just; that His 
justice cannot sleep forever; that considering 
numbers, nature and natural means only, a 
revolution of the wheel of fortune, an ex-
change of situations is among possible 
events, that it may become probable by 
supernatural interference. The Almighty
has no attribute that can take sides with us 
in such a contest.”
	As a statesman Jefferson was unequaled; 
as a politician he held extreme views and 
differed in many important questions with 
the leaders of his time. He was the most 
conspicuous representative of the Demo-
cratic party while Alexander Hamilton was 
the leader of the Federal, the two great 
schools of American politics. This differ-
ence of opinion certainly never carried any 
particular dissension, for both were mem-
bers of Washington’s cabinet, Jefferson 
secretary of state and Hamilton secretary 
of treasury. Washington very prudently 
sided with neither party, though it is

[Column 3]
popularly believed that his sympathies 
were more with the Federal than the 
Republican leader. He must have held his 
powerful opponent in high esteem for in 
the entrance hall of his beloved Monticello,
opposite his own statue, stood a bust of 
Alexander Hamilton. 
	As Congressman one of his most im-
portant acts was securing the adoption of 
the system of coinage still in vogue. As 
president, a position he held  for two terms, 
doubtless the one act most beneficial to the 
country was the purchase of the territory 
of Louisiana from France. He also suc-
ceeded in greatly reducing the public debt, 
fortifying the seaports, reorganizing and re-
arming the militia and extinguishing 
the Indian’s titles by fair purchase and pro-
moting their emigration beyond the Miss-
issippi.
	Though Mr. Jefferson was pressed to ac-
cept a nomination for a third term, even 
formally requested by the legislatures of 
five states, he promptly refused and re-
tired from public life in 1809, to his home 
of Monticello. But though not politically 
or publically engaged in service, he never-
theless always maintained an interest in all 
affairs tending to the welfare of his coun-
try, and one of his last acts was one of the 
most important—namely, the founding of 
the University of Virginia, of which he has 
been said to say, “I would rather be presi-
dent than president of the states.”
	The simplicity of his character is evi-
denced by the manner in which he rode to 
the hall of Congress on the day of his in-
auguration. Instead of a coach and six, as 
had been the custom, he rode horseback,
without a guard or even a servant in his 
train, hitched the horse’s bridal to a fence 
and walked in without ceremony to receive 
the tenures of the highest office in the land. 
The graciousness of his character can pos-
sibly be best illustrated by the remark he 
made when he took Franklin’s place as 
minister abroad: “I go to succeed Frank-
lin; no one could replace him.” The
tenderness by the simple act of keeping a 
vow made in boyhood to his friend, after-
wards brother-in-law, Abner Carr, by bury-
ing him under his favorite oak on the little 
mountain. This incident is said to have 
originated the little cemetery on the slope 
of Monticello, where the dust of Thomas 
Jefferson now lies in its last repose.
			ANNIE W. CANNON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MRS. LOUISE MAUDE is the only author-
ized translator of Tolstoi’s great novel
“Resurrection.” A remarkable fact con-
cerning this transaction is that it is the
only complete reproduction of the author’s 
manuscript. The Russian edition has been 
emasculated by the censors so that it can-
not be read in full in the original language.
	SENATOR DEPEW, in his address to the
Sons of the Revolution on Washington’s
Birthday, said that Washington was a
brilliant success in everything except
courtship. He defeated the British many
times, at many places; he stormed forts 
and captured them; but when it came to 
making a maiden’s heart capitulate, he 
failed. On three different occasions, he
said, Washington attempted this, but met 
defeat; and it was not till he met the
Widow Custis that he succeeded. Wash-
ington’s ill success in this direction the
speaker attributed to the fact that he re-
sorted to poetry. When the girls read his
halting verses they concluded that they 
did not want such a suitor.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A HYMN.

		O, Saints of the Most High,
			Who dwell on Europe’s shore,
		You’ve heard His servant’s cry,
			Low bow His thrown before. 
Praise give to Jesus King, He comes on earth to reign,
Soon will the tidings ring, give glory to His, name.

		O, keep your covenants true,
			You made beneath the wave,
		A crown He’ll give to you,
			And life beyond the grave.
A name and place in Zion, awaits you over there,
And Judah’s fierce lion, will soon your way prepare

		Proud Babylon will fall,
			Destruction o’er her spread;
		List! to the watchmen’s call,
			Have Saints to Zion fled?
The sun will darkened be the moon be turned to
	blood,
The Saints will Jesus see beyond Atlantic’s flood.

		Rejoice ye Saints of God,
			For mighty is His power,
		Hold fast the Iron Rod,
			’Tis His avenging hour.
No more rejected there past the cold finger’s scorn,
O’er the power of men, hail Church of the First
	Born.
						L. D. ALDER.
	London, Eng., Oct. 1899.


[Column 1]
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF THE
RELIEF SOCIETY.
	As I am not able by sickness to attend
the Relief Society meetings with my sisters,
thought I would employ my pen to write
a short essay.
	Joseph Smith, the prophet of the last
days, was the first to organize a Relief
Society in this last dispensation of the ful-
ness of times. I will here quote a few
lines from his teachings to the Relief
Society.
	He said: “This is a charitable society
and according to your natures, it is natural
for females to have feelings of charity and
benevolence. You are now placed in a
situation in which you can act according to
those sympathies which God has placed in
your bosoms. If you live up to those
principles how great and glorious will be
your reward in the celestial kingdom. If
you live to your privileges, the angels
cannot be restrained from being your
associates. Females, if they are pure and
innocent, can come into the presence of
God: for what is more pleasing to God
than innocence? And I now turn the key
in your behalf in the name of the Lord,
and this Society shall rejoice and knowl-
edge and intelligence shall flow down from
this time henceforth. This is the begin-
ning of better days to the poor and needy,
who shall be made to rejoice and pour forth
blessings on your heads.”
	Find this in the EXPONENT, September
1, 1884.
	Now there are many references made to
the relief of the poor in the Bible. There
is a beautiful illustration of the woman
who used the precious ointment to anoint
the Savior’s body. He said “for His
burial.” His disciples found fault with
the woman, said it was waste, it might
have been sold for so much and given to
the poor. It might have been intended
for that purpose, but she had kept it and
was inspired to pour it upon the head of
Jesus, and He said “she had wrought a
good work on Him,” and wheresoever this
Gospel should be preached in the whole
world, that should be told as a memorial of
her. He also said “For ye have the poor
always with you; but me ye have not al-
ways.”
	Dorcas was one of those women full of

[Column 2]
good works and alms deeds that Peter
brought to life. All the widows stood by
him weeping and showing the coats and
garments which Dorcas made while she
was with them. The things that Dorcas
made were kept to clothe the poor, like our
faithful sisters do and have done. I know
a great many who have spent a lifetime
laboring for the poor in our Relief Society,
faithful from the first organization until
the present.
	There has been a marked degree of im-
provement and progression in our society
from the days of Nauvoo when we heard
the Prophet’s prophetic words. You, my
sisters, the pioneers of the Relief Society,
are the ones that the blessings fall upon;
for at that time all were poor and needy,
and you are they who have been faithful to
your calling and have poured forth bless-
ings upon the heads of the poor, and by so
doing have received their’s in return.
	Who were the beginners? I can count
out of the families of the first members of
the Church, and some few are acting now.
They should berelieved by younger sisters.
And I repeat Joseph Smith’s words:
“Great will be your reward in the celestial
kingdom, and those who have passed be-
hind the veil—yes, the angels—will be
your assistants to help you to follow up 
your lineage to weld the link of parantage
and blood kinship to prepare them for the
millennium reign. Your work has ex-
tended its influence and usefulness to every
Stake and branch of the Church, which be-
speaks the approval of divine authority.
			MARY ANN M. PRATT.
	March 16, 1900.


THE NEW STAKE.
	President Frank Y. Taylor is to make a
visiting tour accompanied by all the officers
of the Granite Stake of Zion, visiting
every ward in the new Stake, leaving home
every Sunday morning in order to attend
the Sunday Schools, afternoon services and
call a conjoint meeting of the Y. M. and Y.
L. M. I. A. Association, for the purpose of
becoming better acquainted with the people
of the different wards.
	After the afternoon services a special call
is to be made for the officers and mem-
bers of the Relief Society to meet and be-
come acquainted with the new Stake presi-
dent of the Relief Society and her officers.
	The first visit was made to the Sugar
Ward, February 11, 1900, Sunday morn-
ing at 10 a. m. After the opening exer-
cises the Stake officers of the Sunday
School and some of the General Board were
introduced. Remarks, instructive and in-
teresting were made to officers, teachers and
children. The children marched to their
different classes in excellent order, accom-
panied with very pleasing music. The
Stake officers were arranged in groups and
conducted to the different classes. We
were very much impressed with the exer-
cises of the kindergarten class, which was
managed with skill and interest.
	After the Sunday School was dismissed
we were ushered into another room of the
building and seated at tables beautifully
decorated with flowers and heavily spread
with a sumptuous dinner, which added to
the comfort and pleasure of all present.
The dinner was conducted by the ladies
in a very pleasing manner. Appropriate
toasts were given by President Taylor and
others.
	The afternoon services were indeed a


spiritual feast. Introductory speeches
were made by both brothers and sisters of
the Stake officers, interspersed with sweet
music by the choir.
	At the close of the meeting President
Taylor requested all the members of the
Relief Society to remain for a short meet-
ing, and introduced Sister Emma Wood-
ruff as president of the Granite Stake Relief
Society She made a few remarks, then
introduced her counselors and secretary,
each of whom expressed a desire to be a
stay and a help to their president, Sister
Woodruff.
	The Relief Society president of Sugar
Ward, Sister Sarah B. Gibson, expressed
her love for Sister Woodruff, and spoke of
her steadfastness in the Gospel from her
(Sister Gibson’s) earliest recollection.
	President Taylor spoke very encourag-
ingly to the sisters. He expressed a deep
interest for the prosperity of the work in
this the new Stake.
	Counselor Miller endorsed all the presi-
dent had said, and made a few closing re-
marks.
	Benediction by Counselor Julia A.
Rockwood, of Sugar Ward
	We very much appreciated the kind and
hospitable treatment tendered us by the
Bishopric and people of the Sugar Ward.
			C. A. S. YOUNG, Sec.


ANNIVERSARY MEETING AT PROVO.
	The members of the Relief Society of the
four wards of Provo City appropriately
celebrated the fifty eighth anniversary of
the organization of the Relief Society, in
Nauvoo, 1842.
	A meeting was held in the Stake Taber-
nacle on Saturday, March 17, at 2 p, m., at
which Sister Mary John presided. After
singing and prayer, a very interesting pro
gram was carried out as follows:
	An address on the organization of the
Relief Society, by Sister Marilla Daniels.
	Items of interest in her life were given by
Sister Martha Bullock.
	Brother James E Daniels sang “Daugh-
ters of Zion”
	Sentiment, “The Relief Society,” by
Sister M. A. Till
	Address by Sister Bennett, subject “The
Organization of Women.”
	Song, by Miss Julia Ramsey.
	Reminiscences of the life of the Prophet
Joseph Smith, taken from the diary of the
late Dr John Riggs, by Sister Melissa
Riggs Stewart.
	An address by Sister Deborah Billings.
	Song by Brother George Buries, “Let
Bygones be Bygones Forever.”
	An address by Sister Sarah Partridge.
	There was a good attendance at the
meeting, and there were ten sisters present
who had seen the Prophet Joseph Smith.
	After singing the Doxology, and prayer
by Brother A. J. Stewart, the meeting was
adjourned for one year.
			CAROLINE B. PRATT.


A FEW months ago it was announced
that both Houses of Parliament in West
Australia had passed a resolution in favor
of full suffrage for women. This was an
earnest that they would pass a bill to that
effect as soon as the necessary red tape
could be untied. Now the news comes
that the bill has finally passed both
houses. So, one by one, the Australian
provinces join the procession.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah,
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00 one copy six months.
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of lnonparie
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Mrs. E. B.WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class, matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAR. 15 & APRIL 1, 1900.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The General Conference of the Relief
Society will be held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall in this city, on Thursday,
April 5, meetings commencing at 10 a. m.
and 2 p. m. It is desired that there should
be a large attendance of the members, and
that each Stake organization should be
represented by its president, or some one
authorized to act for her. A cordial in-
vitation is extended to the Bishops and all
brethren interested in the welfare of the
society.
			ZINA D. H. YOUNG
						President.
			JANE S. RICHARDS, 
			BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
			SARAH JENNE CANNON,
						Counselors.
	E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


[Column 1]
OUR NEW POSSESSIONS
	It is hard work to settle the question of
the right kind of government for the new
possessions, as they are called, that have
recently been made over to the United
States, even in one’s own mind. Various
propositions are made as to what ought to
be done, and women have had something to
say, although women’s opinion on national
questions is not what is expected by men of
this nation. Nevertheless, women have
opinions as well as intuitions and emotions.
	It is rather confusing to one who would
gladly take a correct view of the situation
to hear so many sides to this important
question argued. The Hon. Whitelaw
Reid, in what is said by good judges to
have been an able and impressive address,
stated at the close of his speech, “My last
word is an appeal to stand firm and stand
altogether for the continental union and for
a firm civil service for the islands.” Presi-
dent Schurman, the great speaker at the
same meeting in Boston, closed his address
by saying, “We must have a permanent
civil service in the Phillipines. It must be
well paid, and the best men in the country
must go there, and they must be animated,
not by the love of money, although they
must have good salaries, but by devotion to
the public service, by considerations for the
welfare of the Filipinos themselves. With
such a class of men going there, retained 
permanently, and promoted in virtue of
merit, I have no doubt whatsoever of the

[Column 2]
successful solution of the problem which
has devolved upon us in the Orient.”
	One editor who has studied this question
carefully, and who lives in a city famous
for its public advantages, comments thus:
“Unfortunately, such a civil service we
have not, never have had and are not likely
to have. He must be indeed an optimist,
devoid of practical observation and exper-
ience, who will hope for good government
by officials appointed by any political party
in power at Washington. The result will
be a carpet-bag government followed by a
social and political collapse. We can
adopt the second alternative and make
these people citizens, not of the United
States, but of Hawaii, Porto Rico of Luzon
and the other islands organized as self-
governing territories.”
	In short, this writer would give these
people a similar form of government to New
Mexico, and of that which formerly was
provided for Utah. Governor and judges
appointed by the President of the United
States; he reasons that this system with free
commercial intercourse with the United
States inside the American custom house,
the free interchange of temperate and torrid
products would bind the new possessions to
us and to each other in a friendly and
mutually profitable unity, material and
moral. This may be good as far as it goes,
but these people must have something else
besides commerce they must have material
and practical civilizing influences and meth-
ods they must have teaching and training
along many lines to make them truly citi-
zens at all. In short, women as well as
men must help with this great undertaking.
The women of those countries will help
wonderfully by their influence when they
have been reached by the women of the
United States, who can be sent out by the
President and Congress to aid in these at-
tempts to rescue from barbarism these
savage nations and tribes.
	The National Council of Women of the
United States appealed to President Mc-
Kinley in February, 1899, that there be a
commission of women to co-operate with
the men who might probably be sent to
these islands when the war was over.
	Women should study these great and
grave questions, even though they do not
form an opinion, it is well to know what
others think and become acquainted with
what the leaders of this great free govern-
ment are doing to help on the cause of en-
lightened freedom.

	At present the war between Great
Britain and South Africa is engaging the
attention more than any other subject. We
are too far removed from the scene of action
to be sure of our opinion, but we must
necessarily deplore such a war, seemingly a
war for greed; and, O, how terrible are the
tragedies being enacted! and who shall
answer for the loss of so many innocent
lives? General Joubert is reported dead,
Gen. Conje has been taken prisoner, which
seems even worse than dying for the free-
dom of one’s country. A brave soldier, a
hero, whatever else may be said of him, it
must indeed be hard for such a man to be
shut up in prison. But with these two
great Generals absent, one in death and one
in prison, it naturally seems the Boers
must soon surrender altogether, and yet,
perhaps, there are others as brave and as
skillful, and the war may go on, for if, as
Olive Schriener says, the people of the
Transvaal are determined to fight until

[Column 3]
death, then there will be more battles
fought, and the end is not yet for the great
armies of Great Britain. 
	Would that some peaceable method of
settling hostilities might be negotiated and
the peace which Shakespeare speaks of in
Henry IV, might follow:
	“Peace is in the nature of a conquest:
	For then both parties nobly are subdued,
	And neither party losses.”

And Milton says in one of his sonnets:
	“Peace hath her victories,
	No less renowned than war.”

	The latest dispatches show that the Boers
are not conquered, and although the
British soldiers outnumber them by many
thousands undoubtedly, and are well
equipped, yet Kruger has not lost heart, if
reports can be relied upon. He is reported
as saying to the New York World re-
porter: “My burghers are fighting bravely
and they will continue to do so until Great
Britain asks for peace or withdraws her
soldiers,” and adds:
	“Even as your forefathers fought against
great odds in the Revolutionary war, so
we are struggling, and even as God was
with your people, so is he with us. We
have fought with England before and we
defeated her soldiers, and we will be vic-
torious again.”
	But that will be as the Lord wills, He
holds the destinies of nations in His hands,
and His purposes must be fulfilled. But
for women whose dearest and best must go
forth to battle, surely they will with one
accord long and pray for peace and protest
against the horrors of war that fill the earth
with mourning aud lamentation.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	We have given considerable space to the
George Washington Association because of
the call made and the money raised by the
school children of Utah for the Memorial
Building to be erected in Washington, D.
C. It is well to let the people here and the
children know how far the matter has ad-
vanced and what is really being accom-
plished.
	Tuesday, March 20, was open day at the
Cleofan and the visitors were entertained
delightfully at the home of Mrs. James H.
Moyle. Mrs. Cora Hooper Eldridge gave
a lecture on Oriental Art, illustrated with
rugs, pottery, pictures and dainty articles
that made the subject exceedingly inter-
esting, as was also the conversation at the
time tea was served after the lecture was
over. The Cleofan seems to be quite a pro-
gressive club of exceptionally bright young
women, and many of its members are giving
marked attention to the fine arts.
	The Countess of Derby laid the founda-
tion-stone of the Rectory at St. Albans,
Cheatwood, England. The Earl, her hus-
band, was present. The St. Albans Mis-
sion Guild cleared the ground, the ladies
provided tea for the diggers each Saturday
afternoon until the work was done. This
ceremony performed by a woman is new in
the world; we have had one instance only
of which the writer is aware here in Utah.
President Sarah M. Kimball laid the corner
stone of the Fifteenth Ward Relief Society
hall in the year 1868.
	Sisters M. G. Clawson and P. J. Kimball
gave a Kensington on Tuesday, March 20,
at Sister Clawson’s residence. About sixty


[Column 1]
ladies were present, all old friends, making
the affair a very entertaining one indeed.
Carnations and smilax were used in the
decorations, which made the beautiful par-
lors even more attractive. Sister Clawson
has for years been famous for her dainty
culinary accomplishments, and, of course,
the “tea” was exceptionally fine, and the
ladies lingered around the artistically ar-
ranged tea tables, chatting of other days,
longer than etiquette requires. Both Mrs.
Clawson and her Sister, Mrs. Kimball, are
charming hostesses.
	The Seventeenth of March was pretty
generally observed here and it is ardently
hoped that it was also in other Stakes of
Zion. Condensed history of the Society
itself and sketches of its founders, and
items from the teachings of Joseph Smith
the Prophet, were among the exercises on
the program in some of the wards, together
with music, hymns and songs suitable to
the occasion. In some places parties were
held and dancing was indulged in, and in
others social reunions were given and the
old folks were feasted and made happy.
The day has been observed according to
the wish of the General Board and it has
doubtless made an impression that will be
lasting in the minds of the people. The
17th being Saturday, it was more conven-
ent for some of the branches to celebrate
on Friday, and as each organization could
choose what hour seemed most suitable,
therefore invited guests had the opportunity
to visit several of the meetings.
	The Fifteenth Ward Relief Society held
its meeting in the new hall which the sis-
ters have had finished and furnished during
the past year. It is quite commodious and
was neatly and appropriately decorated.
Mrs. H. A. Badger presided and about
seventy-five members, including a few
visitors, were present. Remarks were
made by President M. Isabella Horne and
Elder L. John Nuttall, and among the
exercises Mrs. E. B. Wells gave a verbal
sketch of the late president of the Society,
Sister S. M. Kimball and read a poem by
Sister L. L. Greene Richards, written for
the Society, and also an address by Presi-
dent Eliza R. Snow, made in July, 1868.
At intervals music and recitations were
rendered. Sister Prudie Brown read a
poem written especially for the meeting by
Sister Mary E. Morris, who was unavoid-
ably kept at home by illness. The musical
exercises, conducted by the choir leader,
Brother Ashman, were exceptionally good.
	The Third Ward Relief Society held its
anniversary meeting to celebrate the first
organization in Nauvoo, on Saturday,
March 17, at 2 p. m., in the meeting
house, Mrs. Frances Smith presiding. The 
secretary had charge of the program.
Visitors present were President M. Isabella
Horne and her counselors, Annie T. Hyde
and Clara C. Cannon, also Elizabeth J.
Stevenson and E. B. Wells, of the General
Board. During the rendering of the music-
al exercises each of the visitors addressed
the meeting. President Horne spoke
mostly upon the signs of the times, quoting
many passages of scripture and prophecies
that are now being fulfilled. The other
subjects referred to were general, though
replete with testimony of the Gospel and
the duties and high calling of the women
of Zion. Sister Wells also alluded to the
advice given by President Z. D. H. Young
in regard to reading the Book of Doctrine

[Column 2]
and Covenants in the Society meetings and
especially the subjects upon faith. Bishop
Maycock made brief remarks at the close
of the meeting. Tables were set in the
vestry where all present partook of deli-
cious refreshments prepared by the Society.
Beautiful flowers adorned the hall and the
good spirit was manifest in all the teach-
ings. President Frances Smith and her
associates are to be congratulated on the
success of their celebration.
	The Twelfth Ward Relief Society con-
vened on Friday evening, in their ward
chapel, President Julia Druce presiding,
and conducting the exercises. The first
feature of the entertainment was dinner
served by a committee of the sisters, who
proved themselves very efficient in the
matter of pleasing their guests. At the
head of one of the long tables sat Bishop
H. B. Clawson and at his left the venerable
president of the Society at large, Sister
Zina D. H. Young, and next to her Sister
Emily Young Clawson, and on the Bishop’s
right was Apostle John Henry Smith and
wife. Sisters E. B. Wells, Julia Druce and
her counselors, J. R. Midgley, Sister
Hooper and others. The feast was abund-
ant and delicious and the conversation
general and interesting. The program was
varied and some of the exercises were
humorous in the extreme, songs and music
very good, and the entertainment passed off
well. Aunt Zina, as she is familiarly
known and lovingly spoken of among the
Saints, made an exceedingly interesting
address, also Apostle John Henry Smith,
Elder L. J. Nuttall and Bishop Clawson
spoke briefly. Sister Midgley read a paper
on the history of the Society and gave a
brief outline of the work of the Society in
that ward, and the several presidents and
officers that had served at different periods
since its organization. The music was
particularly good. We are sorry not to
have space to give the program more fully,
but we can say they have excellent talent
in the Twelfth Ward.
	The Seventeenth Ward Relief Society
celebrated anniversary day March 17,
Saturday evening in the ward hall, Presi-
dent Clarissa S. Williams presiding. The
house was filled with the brethren and sis-
ters and a few invited guests. The sing-
ing was a beautiful feature of the program,
some exquisite songs were rendered, beside
the sacred hymns. Sister B. W. Smith,
one of the presidents of the General Board,
gave a verbal sketch of the first Relief
Society organized in Nauvoo and of its
officers and work. At the close of Sister
Smith’s address, a neat little girl in white
came forward and presented her with an
elegant bouquet of choice flowers. Sister
Julia C. Howe, who had been connected
with the ward since its organization, read a
sketch of the Relief Society in that ward
from the time it was, first organized, men-
tioning in an affectionate manner the sever-
al officers now departed. The secretary,
Mrs. C. F. Wilcox read a written paper on
The life and labors of “Aunt Zina,”
and the possibilities of the Society, and
paid a beautiful tribute to Aunt Zina, her
labors of love, her tender, sympathetic
nature, her untiring devotion to the inter-
ests of Zion, and her magniminity of char-
acter in all departments of life. The presi-
dent responded in a gracious and humble
manner. Sister E. B. Wells, Apostle John
Henry Smith, Elder L. John Nuttall and
Bishop W. J. Beatie each made brief re-

[Column 3]
marks. Mrs. Williams is an excellent pre-
siding officer and is well beloved in her
ward. Towards the close of the evening’s
exercises a very pretty small silk flag was
presented to Sisters Wells and Williams by
the little girl in white.
	We were very much gratified with the
invitation to attend the sisters’ conference
of Juab Stake, at Nephi, and participate in
the reorganization of the Stake Board of
the Relief Society. President Mary Pitch-
forth, who has had charge of affairs
for seventeen years, had resigned, and that
necessitated a new Board of officers. Apostle
George Teasdale was present at the confer-
ence and spoke in high terms of praise and
commendation of President Pitchforth and
of President Goldsbrough, who preceded
her in the position, and the good sisters
who had labored with them both. Sister
S. A. Cazier sang, very sweetly, “Ever re-
membered for what she has done.” Presi-
dent J. W. Paxman, Counselor C. H.
Sperry and Bishop Parks were all present
at the meeting. The new Board consists of
president, Kate L. Paxman, counselors,
S. A. Cazier and Mary A. Grover; aids, M.
A. May, and S. K. Latimer; secretary,
Una Chappell; assistant secretary, Sarah
Brown; treasurer, Helen Grace. Sister
Mary Pitchforth, the retiring president,
and her counselor, Hannah Jones, were
made Honorary members of the Stake
Board, and a hearty vote of thanks was
given them for their faithful Services in the
past. Conference was held on Friday,
March 23. President H. A. Badger, of the
Fifteenth Ward Relief Society, accompanied
the writer to Nephi and participated in the
business of the meeting; also bore a good
testimony of the Gospel. Sister Mary
Pitchforth has been a model president, but
is at present in very delicate health.
Another visitor at the conference was
President M. A. Hyde, of Sanpete Stake
Relief Society, who bore a strong testimony
concerning Joseph Smith and the Gospel
dispensation.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.
		SALT LAKE STAKE.

	The Relief Society Conference of the Salt
Lake Stake, held March 3, 1900, in the
Assembly Hall, President M. Isabella
Horne presiding, commenced by singing
"Arise, O glorious Zion." Prayer by
Counselor Clara C. Cannon. Singing,
"Where the voice of friendship’s heard.”
	The officers present on the stand were
President M. I. Horne, Counselors A. T.
Hyde and C. C. Cannon, President Zina D.
H. Young, President Bathsheba W. Smith,
Maria W. Wilcox, Julia C. Howe, Clar-
issa S. Williams, President Emma S.
Woodruff, President Sarah J. Cannon,
Emma A. Empey, Elizabeth J. Stevenson,
President Mary A. Hyde.
	Roll call, twenty-three wards represented
out of twenty-five. Minutes of the confer-
ence held December 23, read and approved.
	President Horne was the first speaker.
Said this was the first meeting held since
the division of the Stake, and she was
pleased to see so good a representation. It
is a grand and a great calling to be an officer
in the Relief Society, and the officers should
be alive to their duties, energetic and faith-
ful in every particular. We must not be
slothful servants, nor let anything interfere
with our spiritual advancement. We need
a revival of interest in our associations, and


[Column 1]
much depends upon the energy of the
officers. All should be humble and willing
to be dictated by the Holy Spirit. Do not
aspire to office, but be willing to fill the
humble places, for they are all important.
All the officers need our prayers.
	President Zina D. H. Young said: “It is
a great thing to be satisfied with the provi-
dences of the Lord, and do not always be
wanting, or when you come to the end of
your lives and are weighed in the balance,
you may still be found wanting. I pray
the Lord to bless all who are here, they are
His jewels, and I also pray for those who
are not here but who desire so much to be
here, if it were possible.”
	President Sarah J. Cannon said: “I feel
that there is a good spirit here, and am very
much pleased to be able to be here. I feel
the importance of what Sister Horne had
said—that we need an awakening in the
Relief Society. I have thought of this a
great deal, and wonder what can be done in
this regard. Be charitable and try to avoid
giving offence to any one.”
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde was extremely
gratified to see the good representation con-
sidering the division of the Stake. Felt
that this division would be productive of
good. Spoke of the duties of mothers, there
is none greater on earth, and the Relief
Society is one of the greatest helps in this
direction. “We hope to have some special
meetings where these things may be con-
sidered. Relief Society workers when they
go around making their visits should invite
all the sisters to come to meeting, try to
get all to come who possibly can. Do not
find fault with those who are in authority
over us, for that is where Satan will gain
possession of our minds.”
	President Bathsheba W. Smith was de-
lighted to meet with the sisters always, and
never regretted coming to a meeting. Dis-
couraged card playing, never saw any good
come from it. “Always be cheerful and
have a contented mind and happy counte-
nance.” Believed that we could make our
meetings more interesting if we would meet
together often and each one strive to do her
duty.
	President M. A. Hyde, of Sanpete Stake,
was delighted to be present and hear the
good instructions given by the sisters. Had
the pleasure of knowing the Prophet Joseph
Smith, and said there were not many left
who had had the privilege of seeing him.
Bore a strong testimony and prayed the
blessing of the Lord to be with all, especial-
ly those who are placed over us to instruct
us.
	President Emma S. Woodruff, of the new
Granite Stake, said they felt in this new
Stake that the Salt Lake Stake was their
mother. “We feel satisfied with the pres-
ent arrangements, though it is a great re-
sponsibility. I feel like my greatest desire
is to serve the Lord for the rest of my life
When our children are young they need
our care, and even when they are grown
we should not slacken our vigilance, for
they need our care almost as much then.”
	Presided Horne explained that on ac-
count of the unavoidable absence of Sister
Riter, Sister Emma A. Empey had kindly
consented to fill her place. Gave instruc-
tions as to how the nurses should report,
etc. It is quite a trouble and care to look
after the sick, but this is a part of our labors
and we should not shirk them.
	Sister Horne introduced Sister Empey,
who spoke for a few minutes, expressing
her desire to give satisfaction in this posi-

[Column 2]
tion, although she hardly knew what her
duties would be.
	Sister Elizabeth Stevenson said: “We
should live lives of example. Look at the
lives of these our sisters, two of them
eighty years old and over. Let the officers
take the instructions home to their branches
of the society. Let us watch well over our
children, they are our jewels. The sisters
should try to assist their husbands, be care-
ful in financial affairs. What a sad thing it
is to see a Latter-day Saint become a bank-
rupt.”
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m. Sing-
ing, We thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.”
Benediction by President Elizabeth Paul.
	Afternoon session commenced by singing
“Do what is right,” led by the Temple
choir. Opening prayer by Sister Julia C.
Howe. Singing, “Jesus I my cross have
taken.”
	The minutes of the afternoon session of
the conference held December 23 were read
and approved. The annual financial and
statistical report was read and approved,
also the Stake treasurer’s report read and ap-
proved.
	President Horne was pleased to see a bet-
ter attendance, and urged all the sisters in
the Stake to make an effort to attend. The
influence of the example of the mother was
very hard to eradicate from the minds of
the children. The Prophet said that a
good and pure woman was a fit companion
for angels and her influence over her asso-
ciates was unbounded. Spoke of the neces-
sity of being humble. A humble spirit has
more influence over the people than the
words of great orators. Our trials and
temptations only serve as means of prov-
ing us. We will get our reward for the
good we do and the faith we have. Testi-
fied of the following occurrence which hap-
pened in Canada, at the home of a Mrs.
Walton, near Toronto. Those present were
John Taylor and wife, John Snider and
wife, Joseph Fielding and two sisters,
Joseph Horne and wife and some others.
The Prophet related with great force and
power the circumstances connected with the
bringing forth of the Book of Mormon. His
face and whole body seemed full of light.
Advised the sisters to learn as much as pos-
sible about the Church, and also endeavor
to keep in touch with what is going on in
the world. Prayed for the spirit of the
Lord to bless and prompt us to do right,
and to encourage and cheer us continually.
	Mrs. Priscilla J. Riter, superintendent of
the nurses, spoke of her inability to con-
tinue the work, because of sickness in her
family. Commended those nurses who had
fulfilled every duty required of them in
caring for the poor and sick. Said those
who are most prompt to answer the calls of
charity are the best nurses and are compe-
tent to receive the best wages. Mrs. Riter
spoke at some length in a very interesting
way of the work performed and the spirit
manifested by the nurses. Hoped they
would receive encouragement from the
Society officers, and desired always the sup-
port of the sisters and the blessings of her
Heavenly Father.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde moved that a
vote of thanks be given Sister Riter for her
very efficient work, and hoped she would
soon be able to take it up again; carried.
	Sister Emmeline B. Wells then spoke of
the 17th of March, the day on which the
Relief Society was organized, and hoped
each ward would celebrate the day in such
a way that an impression would be made on

[Column 3]
the minds of the people in the ward. Make
it a day long to be remembered. She was
very much interested in all work which
would make the Relief Society the best and
most efficient society for the development of
women on the earth. The sisters will never
regret the work they do in the Relief Soci
ety. Referred to the silk industry in Utah.
Everything is favorable to the raising of
silk, but there was not enough cocoons
raised to warrant an experiment station.
The silk commission will assist any one
who wishes to learn about the work. The
Utah silk commission, of which President
Zina D. H. Young was chairman, sent an
elegant black brocaded silk dress, made of
Utah silk, to Miss Anthony as a birthday
present on her eightieth birthday anniver-
versary. Sister Wells spoke of the EX-
PONENT as the organ of the Relief Society.
Said it always contained reports of the Re-
lief Society of the various Stakes of Zion,
and news of interest educational to women.
She had been requested to prepare a com-
plete file for the Paris Exposition, and ex-
pected to do so, with suitable bindings for
that great occcasion. Urged the
sisters to support the paper, it was a
woman’s paper for women. Spoke of hav-
ing represented the Relief Society in the
International Congress in London last sum-
mer. Hoped the sisters would do all they
could to forward the work of the society
We have much information to give
to strangers and we should prepare our-
selves.
	President Zina D. H. Young requested
that every president should have a copy of
the EXPONENT. The Lord will eventually
open the way for the furtherance of His
work. Prayed for the blessings of the
Lord continually to accompany His daugh-
ters.
	President Horne wished the wards to
celebrate the 17th of March. “Officers of
the Salt Lake Stake will meet in the 14th
ward hall four weeks from to day.”
	The Temple choir sang “O, Paradise,”
and the conference was adjourned for three
months, or the first Saturday in June.
Closing prayer by Elder C. J. Thomas.
		AUGUSTA W. GRANT, Sec.
LOS ANGELOS.
	Our little branch at Los Angelos is really
not so large as it has been, owing to many
leaving for Utah, Idaho and other places.
Still, some have been added to the Church
through the labors of our faithful Elders in
this mission.
	Our Relief Society, though not making
so much headway as we could desire, is not
asleep, by any means.
	The president of our branch, Elder H.
C. Jacobson, thought proper some two
weeks since to have a social gathering of
Saints and friends, hiring a large hall for
this purpose. An admission fee was
charged, which proved a success. We took
advantage of this opportunity to offer needle
work for sale, made by the sisters, which
we soon disposed of, realizing some ten dol-
lars. We have one or two friends who are
needy and must do what we can to help
them. We felt pleased with our work, and
all enjoyed themselves, friends as well as
Saints.
	I wish to say my address will again be
531 Court St., which please note. Wish-
ing the compliments of the season, I re-
main,
		Your sister in the Gospel,
				E. WOOLLACOTT.


118 WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.									119


RELIEF SOCIETY JORDAN STAKE. 
	At a conference held at East Jordan,
January 21, 1900, for the purpose of or-
ganizing the Jordan Stake of Zion, it was
proposed that the following officers of the
Relief Society of the Jordan Stake be
sustained: Marinda Bateman, president;
Hedvig Huldah Larson, first counselor;
Agnes Cutler, second counselor. 
	The appointments were sustained unani-
mously, and Marinda Bateman was set
apart January 27, 1900, by Francis M.
Lyman; Hedvig H. Larson, same date, by
Anton H. Lund; Agnes Cutler, by Francis
M. Lyman; Elizabeth Gardner, chosen as
secretary on February 10, 1900, set apart
on the same date by Francis M. Lyman;
Emily White, chosen as corresponding
secretary on February 10, set apart March
10, by Orin P. Miller; Mary Aggie Cushing 
chosen as treasurer on February 10, set
apart March 16 by Hyrum Goff. 
			ELIZABETH GARDNER, Sec.


FAREWELL SURPRISE PARTY.
	Though it is for the benefit of the people
that the new wards are being organized, it
causes a feeling of regret and sadness to
part with some of the members who are
thus moved to start in the fresh field in
which they are called to labor.
	It was with such feelings that the mem-
bers of Willow Creek Ward met on the 1st
of March to give a farewell party to Sister
Thompson, who besides being an officer of
the Stake Y. L. M. I. A., was president of
the same association of the ward, and a
teacher in our Relief Society, and was also
secretary of the Sunday School.
	In a neat little speech Sister Ida Barratt,
in behalf of these associations, presented
our sister with a wreath of flowers, made
from the hair of the members of the afore-
said associations, as a token of respect and
appreciation of her labors among us.
	In response Sister Thompson said she
was sure the ward had been united and suc-
cessful in getting up this surprise, and in
their efforts of showing their appreciation
of her labors, and that enough money could
not be laid at her feet to buy this wreath of
flowers that had so affectionately been pre-
sented to her.
	After a continuation of the program all
went home, feeling that they had done
their duty, and all felt happy. 
					LITTLE SISTER.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	To the memory of Sister Julia Anna Ivins
		Pace, who departed this life Jan. 17, 1900.
	Whereas, In the dispensation of Providence,
God has seen fit to call home one of his daughters
who labored long as corresponding secretary for
the Relief Society of the St. George Stake of Zion;
and
	Whereas, she has proved herself an efficien
worker in all her various duties, and was one
whose kindness and generosity of spirit brought
sunshine to many hearts, helping the needy in
time of want, and was in her own life a fitting em-
bodiment of her constant prayer, that she might be
humble and united in all that is good; therefore,
be it
	Resolved, That we, her sisters, united with
her in the presidency of the St. George Stake, do
deeply feel her loss in connection with her earnest
effort and constant work; nevertheless, in this our
loss, we feel to bow to the mandates of an Alwise
Creator who doeth all things well.
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be
sent to her family, also that one be sent to the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publication. 
			ANN C. WOODBURY, President.
			EMMA MORRIS, First Counselor.
			JANE F. BLEAK, Second Counselor.


OBITUARY.
LUCY H. FLAKE.
	Died, in Snowflake, Arizona, January 27, 1900, 
Sister Lucy H. Flake, wife of William J. Flake, 
one of the Bishopric of this ward. 
	Sister Lucy Hannah White Flake was the eldest 
child of Samuel and Mary Burton White. She 
was born in Knox Co., Ill., August 23, 1842. Her
parents came to Utah in 1850, and were among 
the first settlers of Lehi, moving from there to
Cedar in 1853. She was married to William
J. Flake, December 30, 1858, by Apostle Amasa
M. Lyman, in Cedar City, Utah. She was the 
mother of thirteen children, nine sons and four
daughters, six of whom, five sons and one
daughter, have preceded her to the other side. 
	With her husband and family she left their home
in Beaver, where they had lived nearly eighteen 
years, and came to Arizona in the fall of 1877. 
They lived for awhile on the Little Colorado river, 
but not being able to make a dam stay in the 
river, Brother Flake bought the home and ranch
of Mr. James Stinson, on Silver creek, in July, 
1878, from which the town of Snowflake was made, 
which has been the home of Sister Flake ever since. 
	She was sustained as first counselor in our Relief
Society to Mary J. West, president, when it was
first organized, July 12, 1880. She acted in that
capacity for fifteen and a half years, when she
was sustained as Stake president of the Primary
Association in November, 1895, in which position
she gained the love and respect of the children as
well as the parents, by making regular and fre-
quent visits to the different branches in the Stake.
She has been head teacher in the primary depart-
ment of our Sunday School for five years, where 
she has been very efficient and faithful.
	Sister Flake was taken sick on the 10th of De-
cember, 1899, with an affliction of the bowels, and 
suffered very much for two weeks, then so far re-
covered as to be able to go to the Primary Christ-
mas tree, Old Folks’ Day and other places during 
the holiday week, but on the 2nd of January she
was again taken down, suffering very severely 
and not eating a meal from then till the end came. 
	All that could be done by husband, children and
loving friends was done for her, but all to no pur-
pose. Her son, Osmer D. Flake, is on a mission, 
and is now president of the Mississippi Conference. 
Her second daughter, Jane F. Wood, lives in
Mexico. The other two daughters and three sons
were at her bedside. 
	She has been a faithful Latter-day Saint, a true
wife and mother, a wise counselor and friend, a 
prompt tithe-payer, has kept the Word of Wisdom
and has been a constant subscriber to the
EXPONENT, only missing the year they moved to 
Arizona of subscribing every year. 
	As members of the Relief Society to which she 
was so faithful, we deeply deplore her loss and 
sympathize with her husband and children, and 
pray that we may emulate her honest, upright
course in life, that our reward may be as sure as 
we feel dear Sister Lucy H. Flake’s will be.
			MAY H. LARSON, 
		President Snowflake R. S.


GEORGE WASHINGTON ASSOCIATION.

The George Washington Memorial Asso-
ciation held its annual meeting at Washing.
ton, D. C., December 13, 14 and 15, 1899.
There was a large attendance from the
several organized States and much interest
was felt by those who could not be present,
as the voting of several hundred proxies
showed. The first session was devoted to
reports of officers,and the annual election of
new officers—Mrs. L. D. M. Sweat, of Port-
land, Me., president of the Mt. Vernon
Association, was chosen-president by accla-
mation. The other officers are as follows:

VICE-PRESIDENTS.
Mrs. Archibald Hopkins, Washington;
Mrs. Washington A. Roebling, New Jersey;
Mrs. Henry R. Mallory, New York; Mrs.
Frank Northrop, New York; Mrs. Law-
rence Maxwell, Jr., Ohio: Mrs. Elizabeth
T.King, Maryland; Mrs. Tod Helmuth,
New York.

TRUSTEES.
Mrs. Phoebe. A. Hearst, California; Mrs.
Calvin B. Brice, Ohio; Mrs. H. H. Adams,
Connecticut; Mrs. Wm. T. Carter, Pennsyl-
vania; Mrs. John L. Routt, Colorado; Mrs.
Leslie C. Wead, Massachusetts.
Recording Secretary of Association—
Mrs. Susanna P. Gage, Ithaea, N. Y.
Recording Secretary of Board—Mrs.
Leslie C. Wead, Brookline, Mass.
Corresponding Secretary—Mrs. John
Russell Young. Washington, D. C.
In the opening address the president, Mrs. Ellen A. Richardson, said: “We
seek on this occasion to promote the final
and supreme, object which Washington
sought to secure in the last hours of his
life. However much confused the work-
ings of this association may become on ac-
count of the long postponed governmental
action and defeated legislation, we never-
theless can but anticipate the happy day
when the last purpose of Washington shall
be in some manner fulfilled. The fulfill-
ment may not come in the very terms which
he prescribed, but fortune and Providence
may yet combine to make such a fulfillment
as shall demonstrate the loyalty of the
American people to the memory of their
first and greatest citizen.”
Greetings were read from Mrs. Henry
Sanger Snow, president of the D. R. Soci-
ety; Mrs. Daniel Manning, president of the
D.A. R. Society Mrs. W. B. Lowe, presi-
dent of the General Federation of Women’s
Clubs, and others.
The report of the treasurer, Mrs. Frank
Northrop, showed an addition of $6,000 to
the contingent and building funds, and
pledges of $8,000 to the building fund. Four
hundred and eighty-two members have
been admitted during the year, making a
total membership of over fourteen thousand.
Reports of State Chairmen and Questions
of Policy occupied the second day’s session,
which adjourned at 4 p. m., to allow the
members to attend the memorial celebra-
tion in Epiphany Church. The charter
membership closed at noon, December 14,
1898, and many distinguished names were
added to the members, among them, Hon.
James Wilson, Secretary of Agriculture;
Dr. Dabney, President of the University of
Tennessee; Mrs. Ellen Hardin Walworth,
Saratoga, N. Y., and Mr. Charles D. Wal-
cott, Director U. S. Geological Survey.
Letters were read from Dr. Benjamin
Ide Wheeler, President of the University
of California, and Dr. Shurman, President
of Cornell University, and a member of the
Education Committee, endorsing the estab-
lishment of a national university, and re-
marks were made to this end by Dr. Dab-
ney, Mr. Walcott and Dr. W. J. McGee,
Chief of the Bureau of Ethnology, all em-
phasizing the purpose and object of the
association to build a Memorial Building,
which shall be devoted to such educational
uses as shall fulfill, as far as possible, the
wishes of Washington, as the policy of the
Association.
In the evening a solemn observance of
the centennial of Washington’s death was
held in the Lafayette Opera House. This
commemoration was by the women of the
land through the George Washington Mem-
orial Association, which, some three years
ago, suggested that there be some national
observance of the day in Washington. The
celebration was of the most solemn and im-
pressive character and filled the Opera
House with a large audience of representa-
tive men and women. In the boxes were
representatives of the Cabinet, Diplomatic
Corps and Supreme Court, and in the seats


heads of colleges, government officials, rep-
resentatives of different creeds and men of
different political minds—all there to testify
to the universal love and esteem in which
Washington is held today.
	The theatre was decorated with flags, tall
palms and other potted plants. A portrait
of Washington and the President’s flag
were suspended over the heads of the
speakers. Over a hundred members of the
Washington Choral Union occupied the
rear of the platform, singing “Before Jeho-
vah’s Mighty Throne” and the Hallelujah
Chorus, with telling effect. The instru-
mental music was furnished by the Fourth
Artillery band, which was present by
special order of the secretary of War. After
the rendition of Chopin’s Funeral March
and another dead march, “At Rest,” fre-
quently played at military funerals, the
exercises were opened by the Right Rev.
Henry Y. Satterlee, Bishop of Washington,
who offered a fervent prayer, invoking the
Creator to instil into the American people
the national spirit which so strongly char-
acterized the life of Washington.
	Hon. John A. Kasson, former minister
to Austria and Germany, acting as Master
of Ceremonies, reading an original letter of
Washington’s and speaking briefly of his
will, in which he devoted part of his for-
tune to the establishment of a national
University. He said in closing, “Wash-
ington proposed no elaborate mausoleum
for himself, no monument to his own great-
ness, no memorial bridges, but his great
heart and intellect did desire a monument
of good, not formed of marble, but of loving
stones, a National University into which
advanced students might enter from every
section of the land, and remove sectional
lines and local prejudices. His chief wish
has remained unfilled for a hundred years.
It is singularly appropriate that the noble
womanhood of the land should at last
undertake the fulfillment of his last desire.”
	Dr. W. J. McGee read the extract from
Washington’s will bequeathing to Congress
fifty shares of the Potomac Company to be
used for the establishment of a National
University.
	Dr. P. B. Barringer, President of the
University of Virginia, gave an account of
Washington’s death, Dr. J. L. Curry,
former Minister to Spain, spoke at consider-
able length on “Washington as a framer of
the Constitution,” and after music by the
Choral Union Dr. Chas. W. Dabney, Resi-
dent of the University of Tennessee, made
the closing address. He referred to Wash-
ington as our first great expansionist, early
seeking to extend our government over the
western country and bind all its people to
us. “Everything he did,” the speaker
said, “from the forming of the Constitution,
which was to bind the states together, to
the construction of inland lines of naviga-
tion, which were to bind them together in
commerce, had for its object the develop-
ment of the national spirit—all his plans
were shaped to this end, that America, the
land of the free, should become a great
nation.”
	A letter was read from Cardinal Gibbons,
praising Washington’s toleration of religion,
and the ceremonies concluded with “The
Star Spangled Banner.”
	The last session, December 15, was de-
voted to amending the by-laws, and new
business, and at its close the members sep-
arated, feeling that the Association was
nearer the attainment of its object than
ever before.		KATE H. WARD.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY GRANITE STAKE.
	The people who attended the conference
at Mill Creek ward were honored with the
presence and wise instructions of Apostle
Francis M. Lyman, Anton H. Lund,
Abraham Owen Woodruff, Seymour B.
Young, of the Seven Presidents of the
Seventies, and others of the authorities of
the Church January 28, 1900, for the pur-
pose of organizing the Granite Stake of
Zion.
	Sister Emma Woodruff was chosen Stake
president of the Relief Society, and Sisters
Mary P. Young and Katharine H. Brock-
bank, as counselors. President Emma
Woodruff was set apart in the afternoon by
Apostle Anton H. Lund.
	The following Saturday at Farmer’s
Ward, February 3, 1900, the counselors
were set apart by Apostle Francis M. Ly-
man, Abraham Owen Woodruff, Bishop
John R. Winder and President Frank Y.
Taylor. Sister Celestia A. S. Young was
chosen and set apart as secretary, and Maria
B. Winder, assistant secretary and treasurer
both, until the other office could be filled.
Celestia. A. S. Young, Sec.


NOTES.
	MRS. LUCINDA H. STONE passed away
at her home in Kalamazoo, Michigan, on
March 14, aged eighty-six yerrs.
	MRS. HAMMOND, of Swaffham Manor,
Norfolk, England, who died recently at
the age of ninety-four, was the daughter
of Mary Charworth, whom Byron loved so
hopelessly. Miss Charworth married Mr.
Muster, who took the name of his wife.
	QUEEN WILHELMINA, of Holland, is
said to be looking forward with appre-
hension to the visit of the Shah of Persia,
who is expected to pay his respects to her
as he passes through Holland on his way
to the Paris Exposition. When the late
Shah visited Antwerp, the king’s palace
was put at his disposal, and after his de-
parture the government was obliged to
renovate the carpets, upholstery and a
great deal of the furniture.


[Column 1]
90% OF AMERICAN WOMEN

wash dishes three times each day. If you are one
of these, wear a pair of  "Goodyear" Rubber
Gloves and always have soft, white hands. Sent
by mail postpaid, on receipt of $1.59 Agents
wanted. Address. M. O. Dept.,

M.F. Reese Supply Co., Setauket, N.Y.

		R. K. THOMAS

   Removed to 67, 69 & 71 Main St.,

		SALT LAKE CITY.


		The Leading Retail.

		      Cash House.

		   R. K. THOMAS 

[Column 2]
[Image of Union Pacific shield logowith the text THE PEOPLE'S FAVORITE. next to it]

			Leave Salt Lake City

No. 6 The “Fast Mail” for Chicago, St. Paul, St.
	  Louis, Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and
	  Park City............ ...............    ... ..............    7 00 a.m.
No. 2 The “Overland Limited” for Chicago, St.
	  Paul, St. Louis. Omaha, Kansas City and
	  Denver...  ......................  .........................   11 45 a.m.
No. 4 The “Atlantic Express” for Chicago, St.
	  Louis, Omaha, Kans[-]s City and Denver...  6 40 p.m.

			Arrive Salt Lake City.

No. 5 The “Fast Mail” from Chicago, St. Louis,
Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and Park
City................................		  Park City................  ......        ....   ..........	    3 00 p.m.
No. 1 The “Overland Limited” from Chicago, St.
	  Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver....	    3 00p.m.
No. 3 The "Pacific Express” from Chicago, St.
	  Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
	  Denver.................................... .................	    3 30 p.m.

CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 Main St. 		   Telephone 665.
					      II. M.CLAY, General Agent.

Save Your Money!
	  
	  And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	  with Zion’s  Savings Bank & Trust
	  Company, the oldest and largest savings
	  bank in Utah.

		Since the establishment of the bank
	  we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	  ings accounts.

		The laws of Utah permit married
	  women and also children who are minors
	  to open savings accounts in their own
	  name, subject to their own order. Have
	  you such an account? If not, open
	  one NOW

		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	  TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	  lar to thousands, and compute said
	  interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.

			LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier

Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.


	The Most Convenient Local Train Service
	in the State is given by the .  .  .  .  .  .

			OREGON SHORT LINE
				   RAILROAD.

		FIVE Fast Daily Trains Each Way between
			  Salt Lake City and Ogden.  .  .  ,  .  .


See that your tickets read via the

		“SHORT LINE”

						And Get the best.

CITY TICKET OFFICE for tickets to all points, 100 West 
	     Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.
 
	   S.W. ECCLES,		      D. E. BURLEY,
		Gen’l Tfc. Mgr.					G.P. &T. A


Woman’s Exponent. 
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 28.
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 15 & MAY 1, 1900.
No. 22 & 23.


CONTENTS.
Mrs. Zina D. H. Young......E. S. Wilcox 121
Sixth Ward Anniversary.......E. W. Condie 122
Current Events..... Aimee C. Schiller. 122
General Relief Society Conference.. E. B. W. 134
A Brief Sketch of my Life..M. F. C. Morris 125
Pioneer Woman........................ 126
R. S. Reports.................... 126
Obituary................................ 127
Primary Conference............ Ella W. Hyde 127
U. W. P. C.............................Grace Anderson 128
Letter to Silk Raisers............ 128

EDITORIAL—A Beautiful Little Book....... 123
Paris Exposition...................  123

POETRY—To Mrs. Isabella Horne.. E. B. W. 121
Embryo....................... 122
Lillies and Violets........ Lydia D. Al'er 122


TO MRS. M. ISABELLA HORNE. 
A BIRTHDAY GBEETING.
 
A life replete with brave and noble deeds,
Wrought in sweet patience and humility,
With loving thought for all humanity, 
And that which ev’ry living creature needs.

Eighty and one, long years, how strange it seems,
That you should see so many wond’rous things,
As recollection to your memory brings;
Ti at Israel’s Prophets only saw in dreams,

Ah, me ! what ’tis to live so many years,
And toil and labor, all the time for good,
Thro’ youth and wedded life, and widowhood,
Such shifting scenes of hope, of joy, and fears.

Courageous woman, you have earn’d a rest;
Wisely you’ve striven for ‘‘the better part;”
And trials borne that pierced you to the heart,
‘‘Tried as by fire,” yet bravely stood the test.

O, may the years to come, be full of love,
Of children and of children’s children, too,
And rich in evr’y blessing dear and true,
Foretaste of that celestial world above.

And when we meet upon ‘‘the other side ”
Then may we know each other’s faces well,
And gladly greeting, all our vict’ries tell,
Where peace and truth forevermore abide.

There may your lov’d ones who have gone before
Salute you with the songs of yesterday,
You’ve sung together on life’s glad highway,
Sweet murm ring music echoed o’er and o’er.
Emmeline. B. Wells.
Nov. 20, 1899.


MRS. ZINA D. H. YOUNG.
AND THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, lovingly known
by many thousands of people as “Aunt
Zina,” has had a most remarkable life his-
tory. Being one of the early Church
members, she has known the mobbings
and drivings, plundering and persecution of
various kinds experienced in this age of
the world only by the people of whose
religion she has been ever a most zealous
and a leading member. But it is of that
part of her life, (and that is a considerable
portion) which has been spent in Relief
Society work to which I will now refer.
It was shortly after the first organization
of the Relief Society, effected by the
Prophet Joseph Smith in Nauvoo, and in-
cluding but nineteen members, that Aunt
Zina became a member. She was then a
young woman about twenty-one years of
age. Being now seventy-nine, a long life
has been employed in the exercise of

[Column 2]
charity, that grace denominated by St.
Paul as the greatest of all.
The expulsion of the people from Nauvoo
made it impossible for the Relief Society to
continue operating long as an organized
body. But that very event, by the sick-
ness, suffering and sorrow entailed, made
greater the demands upon the sisters for
charity in acts of love and kindness.
Not long after the settlement of the
Saints in Salt Lake valley, the Relief
Society was organized “as a natural out-
growth of the parent society in Nauvoo.”
It was the desire of President Young that
Miss Eliza R. Snow assist in forming the
organizations with Mrs. Zina D. H. Young
as her counselor. The Relief Society
branches have increased until now they
exist in all of the forty-two Stakes of Zion,
in outside states and in foreign lands,
wherever are located enough members of
the Church to organize one. At one time
there were thirty branches of the Relief
Society on the Sandwich Islands; the num-
ber is now probably twenty-nine, emigra-
tion causes some changes. There are
some in Germany and Switzerland, also in
Norway, Sweden, Denmark, England,
Scotland, Wales and Ireland. In the
United States they exist in Kansas City,
Chicago, the states of Washington, Oregon,
California, Nevada, Idaho and Arizona.
And in Canada and Mexico there are or-
ganized Stakes. Each Stake has its set of
Relief Society officers complete, and these
are presided over by the general board.
Aunt Zina has lived to see the Relief
Society grow from that one organization in
Nauvoo to six hundred branches, with a
membership of over thirty thousand. She has
been present at and assisted in the organ-
ization of very many of these, traveling in
heat or cold, sunshine or storm, comfort or
discomfort, as the circumstances allowed.
And when not so engaged she has spent
much of her time in visiting different Stakes
and organizations, giving instruction and
counsel, ministering unto the sick, com-
forting and inspiring to good works all with
whom she came in contact by the blessed
influence of her heavenly spirit. Besides
all the other work she has done, she has
presided innumerable times at the impor-
tant event of incoming life. And none can
say how many times she has been present
to bless and to comfort the sick and the
dying. With patience and long-suffering
has she listened to the plaints of poor
humanity, ministering in either a spiritual
or temporal way. For many years she
was chief nurse in the family of President
Young. Often and often she has been
called an “angel of mercy.” Viewing the
work she has done, one is led to think she
had a special mission to fill in this life, per-
haps appointed unto her “before the
foundation of the earth.”
After the death of the president, Eliza R.
Snow in December, 1887, the general board
was reorganized with Zina D. H. Young as
president, a position she has continued to
fill with dignity and honor to the present
time.
Under the auspices of the Relief Society

[Column 3]
a great effort has been made to establish
the silk industry in Utah. In the year
1857 President Brigham Young sent for
silk worm eggs, and, at his request, Aunt
Zina commenced the raising and care of the worms, beginning June 1, 1869, at
Forest farm, now known as Forest Dale.
She was the pioneer in that line of work in
our State, and was made president of the
Silk Association, organized later. She and
her aids traveled the length and breadth of
the territory, using the most earnest efforts
to get the industry well established.
Another great work done by the Relief
Society was the organization of the Deseret
Hospital Association, on May 12, 1882.
Eliza R. Snow was president, with Zina D.
H. Young vice-president, and a full corps
of officers. “The Relief Society Stake
presidents were members of the honorary
committee, and were expected to represent,
the interests of the hospital in their respec-
tive localities.” After years of toil and
struggle the hospital was closed.
In all of these labors Aunt Zina has been
one of the foremost workers. But the
general public cannot realize the beauty of
her home life. I heard one of her children
say she had never known her mother to
utter an impatient word at the trials and
difficulties besetting her. She took them
as lessons intended for her by the Great
Father. And one may say she has gradu-
ated with honor from the school of patient
endurance and self-sacrifice. Man has his
special fields of labor and woman hers. Aunt Zina has done what it would have
been impossible for man to accomplish.
Her spirit is one of the meekest of the earth
and yet one of the most majestic. Presi-
dent Young paid high tributes to her
qualities as a mother. One of her admir-
ers penned the following lines, which it
seems appropriate to quote:
“In little ways unknown to a man  Aunt Zina oft has raised her hand, To soothe the heart, the swollen eye,
When none but she and God were nigh. She’s traveled o’er the dusty plain,
The desert hot in hail and rain,
And talked where brethren could not.”
A sketch of Aunt Zina’s life necessarily
includes much of the work done by the
society, but not all. The charity work
that has been done, in the way of feeding
and clothing the poor, making quilts to
comfort them through the inclement season,
looking after the sick, dying and dead,
alleviating the sorrows of the distressed—of
this work all can never be told. Besides
this, lands have been bought and halls
erected for the use of the society. When
the society became national and inter-
national some advantages were gained.
The president of the general board and a
delegate have the privilege of represent-
ing the society at the National Council of
Women. In that way an idea of the great
work done by the Relief Society organiz-
ation is given to women from all parts of
the world. Aunt Zina and others have
gone to represent us at these councils.
The most recent move of great impor-
tance is the organization of the nurses


class. In the Salt Lake Stake women re-
ceive instruction free, Dr. Margaret C. Roberts
instructor, and in return, after their train-
ing, they give their services free for a cer-
tain time, subject to the call of the superin-
tendent, Mrs. Priscilla J. Riter.
The next thing greatly to, be desired is
to awaken an active interest in the younger
women of the Church, particularly those
who by natural endowment or superior edu-
cational advantages could help give an im-
petus to the work. Perhaps then the much
desired central building in Salt Lake City
could become a reality. A building where
all the important records of the Relief
Society could be kept, a library maintained
and perhaps sleeping apartments and din-
ing room for the entertainment of distant
visitors, an assembly room, recreation hall,
and bureau of information.
Perhaps, too, as the work becomes en-
larged, the poor will be so well cared for
by establishing industries and giving em-
ployment to the able and caring for the
unable, that real poverty would scarcely be
known.
Perhaps, too, rooms can be found, and,
what is more, just the right teachers to
gather the children from the streets in the
evening, affording them attractive enter-
tainment and profitable instruction, which
might be the means of saving many
precious souls. The great and admirable
work that has been done can be recorded,
but the work that may in the future be
done, only a prophet can fortell. Anything
in the way of good and charitable work
done in an organized way may be imagined
and perhaps become a reality.
E. S. WILCOX.


122
WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SIXTH WARD ANNIVERSARY.

The second anniversary of the Sixth Ward
Relief Society of this city, held in com-
memoration of the first organization by our
beloved prophet, Joseph Smith, in Nauvoo,
was held in the Sixth Ward Assembly
Hall, March 17, 1900, President West pre-
siding, Counselors Ellen R.Watson and
Alice Butterworth assisting. On the stand
were Bishop Jas. C. Watson, Counselor
Jesse West, Brothers Alexander Burt,
Edwin Rushton, Thomas Green, James
Poulton, Sen., David Fullmer, Thomas
Winter, Carl A. Ek and George Irvine.
Meeting opened by singing “We thank
Thee, O God, for a prophet,” organist,
Sisters Louisa Giuique and Sister Jane
Poulton. Prayer by Brother Edwin
Rushton.
A short sketch of Relief Society work
was read by the secretary.
President West in her opening remarks
gave a warm welcome to the brethren and
sisters present. Spoke of the good spirit
here today and the surprise awaiting her.
“In looking over this clean hall I cannot
express fully my gratitude to my young
sisters, also Counselor Arnold G. Giuique,
who has been untiring in assisting to reno-
vate this hall, and to all who aided in this
work.” Regretted that her health was
such that she was too feeble to aid in this.
The Lord would bless all who were valiant
in the cause of truth.
Bishop James C. Watson felt honored in
being connected in this noble work with
the sisters of the Relief Society. Approved
of the sketch read by the secretary. “The
financial report speaks well for the good
work the sisters are performing.” In be-
half of the brethren and sisters, returned
thanks to those who had so ably renovated
the hall, the young sisters also to the sis-
ters of this society who have kindly donated
carpet for the stand; and the choir, not for-
getting Brother and Sister Butterworth,
who kindly donated two table spreads and
a mat for the stand. Regretted the absence
of Counselor Arnold G. Giuique, who is
very sick this afternoon, through overwork
in his zeal to have everything done in
order. “In every capacity we find him ever
faithful. May the blessings of our heavenly
Father rest on him and all who are faithful
workers in the church and kingdom of
God. The spirit of peace is here to day,
everything is pleasant to look upon; the
sisters of this society are in harmony with
the Bishopric, they are noble women doing
a grand work assisting the poor and needy.
President West is heart and soul in this
work.” He could more fully understand
now why President Young adopted as an
emblem the hive of Deseret, for we are like
the busy bees, earnest workers. Invoked 
the blessings of the Lord on those present.
Counselor Jesse West expressed his
pleasure in meeting with the brethren and
sisters on this occasion also in hearing the
report, the sisters were engaged in a good
work. Felt to thank the Lord that his lot
was cast in these valleys with the Saints of
God, where we could go up to the house of
the Lord and perform our work for the
dead. Spoke of the magnitude of this
Latter-day work. The sisters of the Relief
Society were blest and would continue to
be blest. Spoke of the first organization of
the Relief Society—the Prophet Joseph
was inspired.
Brother Alexander Burt said it gave him
pleasure to hear the good report of the sis-
ters, and endorsed the sentiments of the
former speakers. In this comfortable hall
we cannot fail to feel the spirit of peace.
Spoke of the advancement the brethren and
sisters who were faithful to the truth were
making. This Latter-day work embraces
all that is good, the Lord chooses the hum-
ble and meek of the earth to do His work.
Counselor Ellen R. Watson expressed
her pleasure in meeting with the brethren
and sisters. Desired to be one with the
Bishopric and sisters of the society. Spoke
of the good work the teachers were doing.
Their’s is one of the most important auxili-
aries in the Relief Society.
Counselor Alice Butterworth desired to
be one with those who were serving the
Lord. Spoke of the hardships and poverty
existing in early days in these valleys,
some forty years ago the change that
wealth has brought about the indifference
many are exhibiting. The Lord had blest
her with means, desired to use it for the
furtherance of the Gospel. Spoke of the
progression the Church had made since
early days.
Brother Winter said, “one year ago today
we met under similar circumstances. Many
inducements had been offered him to leave
Zion, but he never had any desire to do so.
Felt to stay with the people of God where
he could hear the voice of His servants and
carryout their counsel and instruction. The
day is not far distant when we shall thank
our Heavenly Father for His protecting
care over us in these valleys, for tumult
and strife are abroad in the earth.” Closed
his remarks by invoking the blessing of
the Lord on President West and her aids.
Brother James Poulton, Sen., took
pleasure in being present with this Relief
Society, lie was in full fellowship with
them and desired to be known as such.
Felt we were having a feast. Many re-
flections had passed through his mind this
afternoon, and he felt the peaceful influence
prevading here. Spoke of the perfect sys-
tem existing in the Church. The Relief
Society was one of the greatest auxiliaries
in it, the sisters had, and were, doing a
great work. The blessing of the Lord at-
tended their labors. Spoke of the benevo-
lence of Queen Victoria and her daughters,
who were performing charitable acts among
the poor, making clothing and sending
things to those in need. Many of the nobles
of the earth were aiding the poor and
needy, for this they would receive a bless-
ing. The Relief Society were more succsss-
ful. They have obeyed the truth and God
has given them power to minister to the
needy and comfort and bless the sick. Let
us give the honor and glory to our Heaven-
ly Father for these blessings. Felt to ask
God to bless all those who were workers in
this great cause, even the Relief Society.
Prayed for President West, that the Lord
would strengthen her for her integrity to
the Gospel.
Brother David Fullmer was pleased with
the good records the sisters were making,
the aids they are to the Bishopric. Said
God bless them for their noble work.
Spoke of the surprise he felt on entering
this room, the young sisters have done a
good work, we appreciate their labors.
Brother Thomas Green appreciated the
honor in being invited on this occasion, not
alone for the feast prepared, but to hear
the good instruction given here today.
Spoke of the integrity of President West
and her untiring devotion to the sick.
Prayed the Lord to bless her future days
with health and strength.
Brother Carl A. Ek said, “My heart is
full of thanksgiving to my Heavenly
Father for revealing the Gospel in these
last days.” Felt that the sisters of the
Relief Society were blest in their labors.
Spoke of the respect he felt for the aged,
who had grown old in the service of the
Lord; who had borne the burden and heat
of the day. Alluded to the privilege of
baptizing his mother, she being the first
one he baptized after he embraced the Gos-
pel, also had the satisfaction of seeing her
die in full faith of the Gospel.
The Bishop, in his closing remarks, re
referred to those who did not honor their
calling, who were absent from meeting,
neglected their duties and were not, willing
to fill their positions such should be re-
leased. For those who had small children
he had charity, and felt to bless them and
urge them to care for them. But for those
who wilfully neglected their duties he had
no sympathy. The Lord would bless the
sisters who were faithful and make their
burdens light.
Singing, “Do what is right.” Benedic-
diction by Brother George Irvine.
Refreshments having been previously
prepared by the sisters, the brethren and
sisters partook of the same. After a social
chat all retired feeling greatly blest and
benefited.

ELIZABETH W. CONDIE, Sec.


Miss Susan B. Anthony, and Mrs.
Carrie Chapman Catt will both speak at the
annual Festival of the New England
Woman Suffrage Association, to be held in
Boston the last of May. The occasion bids
fair to be even more brilliant than usual.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.									123


EMBRYO.
I feel a poem in my heart tonight
	A still thing growing;
As if the darkness to the outer light
	A song were owing;
A something vague, and sweet, and sad;
	Fair, fragile, slender;
Not tearful, yet not daring to be glad,
	And oh! so tender.

It may not reach the outer world at all,
	Despite its growing;
Upon a poet-flower such cold winds fall
	To blight its blowing;
But oh! whatever may the thing betide,
	Free life or fetter,
My heart, just to have held it till it died,
	Will be the better.


LILIES AND VIOLETS.

TO E. J. A.

Lilies of the Valley o’er a grave I see,
Droop their dainty heads in loving sympathy,
And meck-eyed violets, breathing patience, trust,
Shed fragrance on the air, ’bove the sleeping dust.
Crocuses and hyacinths peep through the earth,
Heralding the Springtime’s near approaching birth.
The world’s hum and bustle, seems far, far away,
Falls the solemn stillness of a Sabbath day.

A mother bends in tears, o’er the lowly bed,
While her first-born sleeps, ’mong the uncounted
dead;
Tenderly her hands twine flowers ’mid the leaves,
Touching them so gently, while her spirit grieves.
Again she feels baby hands, close round her
	pressed,
Kisses the tiny head, laid upon her breast;
But, O, ’tis past and 'mid the quivering pain,
The sad refrain is ringing, “never again.”

The wind blows piercing cold, storm-clouds over-
	head,
And the morning’s sunshine, suddenly has fled;
The sea moans in the distance, beautiful sea, 
That soothed him to sleep in smiling infancy.
The years roll backward, though to manhood he
grew,
The past seems the present, and the years but
	few,
Death, how like the sea, hides other lands so fair,
That none e’er may know, till they cross over there.
So leave him with his God, He doeth all things
	well,
Giveth His beloved rest, where angels dwell.

Unto the mourning heart, whispers words of
	peace,
That from the fret of life, bring a sweet release;
Though the chain is broken, golden chain of love,
Yet affection's tendrils reach far up above;
Clinging around the loved, on the unknown shore,
Where they dwell with  Him, in bliss forever more.
Birds are sweetly trilling ’mong the sighing trees.
Songs of exultation, bringing sad hearts ease.

LYDIA D. ALDER.
	St. Lewards-on-sea, Jan. 1900


CURRENT EVENTS
		
			MARCH.

	In the great cities of the world there has
been much of late to study and observe.
The path of progress in America has not
been without its impediments and difficul-
ties, but progress, nevertheless, real and
striking, has stood preeminent. The
Phillipine situation has continued to be the
leading topic of serious discussion with no
point of absolute unanimity, except the
fervent hope and prayer that the pending
warfare between the United States troops
and the natives come to a speedy end. The
Secretary of War has just returned from a 
trip through the island of Cuba, the chief
object of which was to observe the present
conditions there—political as well as mili-
tary. The result of his observations, as
summed up in interviews of the Press, is
highly encouraging. No definite action
has been taken on the Porto Rico Bill, the
Republican Senators have been conferring
over the bill for some time, but have been
unable to come to any agreement in the
matter.
	A most important bill was passed in the
House of Representatives, March 13. It
had been passed by the Senate and has now 
become a law, the President having affixed
his signature March 14. This bill is called
"The Gold Standard Currency Bill."
	Telegrams dated March 13, state that 
Bloemfontein was occupied by the British
troops. President Steyn and the fighting
Burghers of the Orange Free State have 
fled into the Transvaal.
	March 14 reports were circulated that the
government at Washington had tendered its
good offices in behalf of peace between
Great Britain and the South African Re-
public. It is feared that the peace confer-
ence will prove a complete failure, as up to the
present time not one of the powers who 
signed the three articles agreed on has
officially ratified the treaty.
	March 17, more commonly known as St.
Patrick's Day, was enthusiastically cele-
brated throughout Great Britain and her 
colonies.
	The Paris Exposition Buildings are
nearing completion and travel thither has 
already commenced.
	The first edition of Rev. Dr. Shelden's
paper, the Topeka Capital, appeared March
13. Rev. Dr. Shelden experimented and
published a paper which has excited much
comment, favorable and otherwise. The
object of this experiment is to publish a
paper on strictly moral and honest lines.
In commenting on this paper other editors
insist that it is not possible to make a per-
manent success of such a paper as the
Shelden edition, for the reason that the pub-
lic buys its newspapers to read the news,
and that the paper which endeavors to
preach instead of giving the news, will
never be popular with the masses.
	An event still fresh in the minds of all, is
the assassination of Senator Goebel, of
Kentucky. The foul crime is still shrouded
in mystery, but the keenest detectives are
at work and a number of men prominent in
official life have been arrested as accessor-
ies to the crime. The investigation is very
sensational.
	A distinguished visitor was in our midst
during March in the person of Hon.
Wm. J. Bryan, and later still Hon. Tom
Fitch, a famous Republican orator.
	On Saturday, March 10, the remains of
Abraham Lincoln were removed from under
the Lincoln monument at Springfield, Ill.,
and placed in a temporary vault.
	Among the notable deaths of the month
was John Ruskin, an English writer, art
critic and reformer, and Abram I. M. Wise,
of the Hebrew Cincinnati College.
	In concluding this brief sketch of the
month's events, let us join in hoping that
ere another month elapses the white flag of
truce will float over the nations of the
world, and that progress and true civiliza-
tion will continue its onward course.
				Aimee C. Schiller.


ANOTHER PIONEER GONE.

	Died, January 19, 1900, in the sixty-
ninth year of her age, Mary Stone, at her
home in Alameda Co., California. She
was born August 7, 1831, in Sucick Co.,
New Jersey. Here her parents joined the
Church and emigrated to Kirtland, Ohio,
and afterwards to Nauvoo, Ill. She was
married in March, 1846, to John Murdock,


and left with the Saints in the same
spring for Winter Quarters on the Mis-
souri river. Her young husband died in
August, the day before arriving at their
destination, and was the first white man
buried in the Indian mound at Winter
Quarters. This left her a widow at the
age of fifteen. Her father, David Norris,
was killed at Nauvoo on the 16th of
September, the same year, while with
others defending the homes of the Saints
from mob violence. Her mother died in
November, six weeks later, while on her
journey to Winter Quarters.
	Sister Mary Norris Murdock started
with the pioneer companies in the spring
of 1847, for the valley, arriving the latter
part of September. Two years later she
was married to Samuel Holmes and was
one of the first settlers in Kaysville,
known as Holmes ranch, two and a half
miles north of Haight's ranch. While
living there she had seven children born,
and sometime in the sixties she emigrated
with her husban and family to San Fran-
cisco, and from there to Mission San Jose,
where another child was born. Three
months later her husband was accidentally 
killed by the falling of a ladder while topping
out a hay stack. Eight years after, she
married Mr. Stone. She had two children
born to her by this marriage.
	All her journey from New Jersey to her
home in San Francisco was done by teams
in covered wagons. She was of a patient,
hopeful nature, and was beloved for her
many noble qualities. She was ever ready
to respond to the call of any one in sick-
ness, and for many years was found at the
bedside of her neighbors for miles around,
many times going in the night over rough
roads, administering comfort to the suf-
fering. She passed quietly away sur-
rounded by the loving faces of her chil-
dren. Her sister, Louisa Norris Dicker,
who resides in this city, was telegraphed
for but only arrived a few hours after her
sister had breathed her last, which was a
sad disappointment, as they were very
fond of each other.
	Sister Stone had a complimentary ticket
to the pioneer Jubilee, and came here after
thirty-five years absence, meeting many
old friends and making some new ones.
She would often speak of it afterwards as
one of the great pleasures of her life.
						L. N. D.


HONOR TO WHOM HONOR IS DUE.
Last Thursday, March 29, Sister Agnes
Cutler was tendered a very pleasant sur-
prise party at her home in East Jordan.
For the past three years Sister Cutler has
been the active president of the ward Re-
lief Society, but with the organization of
the Jordan Stake, she was chosen second
counselor to the Stake president of the Re-
lief Society, Sister Marinda Bateman.
The surprise party was given to show
the respect and appreciation in which Sister
Cutler is held, and to wish her God-speed
in her more exalted calling. The time
was spent enjoyably, singing, reciting and
partaking of the bounties of this life, after
which Sister Cutler was presented with a
handsome present, consisting of a piece of
household furniture. Over seventy Relief
Society workers were present, among the
more prominent being Sisters Marinda
Bateman and Hilda Larsen, of the Stake
presidency, and Sister Emily White, assis-
tant Stake secretary.


124														WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		Woman's Exponent. 
EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah,
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months.
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.

	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.

	EXPONENT office Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.

	Address all business communications to

					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, April 15 & May 1, 1900


A BEAUTIFUL LITTLE BOOK.

	A very attractive little book has recently
been issued from the Juvenile Instructor
office, entitled The Latter-day Prophet, a
history of Joseph Smith, written for the
young people. The book is a suitable size
for children, the simplicity of language
used will recommend it to the little folks.
The loftiest subjects are so simplified as to
be understood by the children; at the same
time they retain the thrilling testimony that
always accompanies the truth. It is really
a narrative full of wonderful manifestations
of the power of God, and His dealings with
His obedient children.
	The subjects are arranged in short chap-
ters, which will make it the more helpful
to the young readers, and more adaptable
to Sunday School work.
	As a people we really have much need of
this class of books, and it is gratifying to
know that a man of such splendid attain-
ments as President George Q. Cannon has
made a study of the Prophet's life for the
children of the Saints. Joseph Smith natur-
ally loved little children; this is apparent in
his history, and has been handed down to
us as one of his characteristics by those who
knew him well personally. The children
of the Saints should learn to love Joseph
the Prophet through being acquainted with
his life and character, as well as to rever-
ence him because of his greatness as a servant
of God, prophet, seer and revelator.
The book should be in every home where
there are children, and it should be studied
carefully. There are still a few people
living who knew Joseph Smith personally,
and who testify of his tenderness to every
living creature and his love for flowers and
music, poetry and the drama, also of his
fondness for athletic games. He was un-
doubtedly the most remarkable man of this
century, and the time will come when his
superiority will be widely acknowledged.
	President Cannon has given the story
of  the golden plates in the most happy style,
minutely describing their appearance, also
the golden breastplate and the Urim and
Thummim, the hill in which the stone box
was hidden and the various times the angel
Moroni appeared to him and conversed with
him about them. The terrible persecutions
the Prophet endured because of the power
of evil, and his great courage and fortitude
are forcibly portrayed.
	It is a fine book for the little men and


women, the best, as far as we have seen, of
its kind; but it has the best subject to deal
with and the writer knows how to reach the
hearts of his readers, and partly because in
this instance his own has been thrilled with
the story he relates.
	The book is for sale at George Q. Cannon
& Sons Co. Publishing House, Main St.,
Salt Lake City, Utah. Price 50cts.


[Column 1]
		PARIS EXPOSITION.

	Paris, April 14.— The Paris Exposition
was opened at noon April 14. The most
favorable weather conditions prevailed and
innumerable bright colored domes glistened
in the sunshine. Paris was early astir with 
people wending their way towards the
Elysee and in the direction of the exposi-
tion.
	All the public buildings and numberless
private houses were decorated with trophies
of flags, chiefly the tricolor. The neighbor-
hood of the exposition was especially gay
with bunting, while most of the pavilions
themselves were surmounted with floating
banners.
	President Loubet, as he stood in the
presidential tribunal surrounded by the
cabinet and household, opened the exposi-
tion with the words: "I declare the expo-
sition of 1900 open.”
	Thus was the Paris Exposition, designed
to celebrate the world's entry into the new
century, inaugurated, and shouts of “ Vive
Loubet” and ‘‘Vive la Republique' ’ rose
from his 40,000 hearers, and silk hats were
waved in the air. The crowds outside the
hall took up the cheering and the exposition
was open.
	The spectable inside the Salle de Fetes
was brilliant with color and illumination.
The immense circus shaped hall is decor-
ated with magnificent frescoes, represent-
ing allegorical subjects by famous French
artists and its stained glass cupola bears
superb designs by Hermann and Goodwin.
It formed a beautiful setting for todays
ceremony.
	Contrary to expectations, the premier, M.
Waldeck-Rousseau, made no address at the
opening of the exposition, Mm. Millerand
and Loubet being the only speakers.
	President Loubet saluted the committees,
and entered the hall through, the throng of
more than 40,000 people that formed a sea
of human faces all turned toward the door.
As a salvo of artillery announced the presi-
dent’s arrival, there was a moment of ex-
pectant silence, then the heavy red plush
cushions covering the door were thrown
aside and the president in evening dress and
wearing the broad red insignia of the Legion
of Honor across his breast stepped into the
tribune which had been temporarily erected
for today’s ceremony, the presidential gal-
lery which is to serve for all later cere-
monies not yet being ready. At the same
instant an orchestra composed of musicians
of the famed Republican Guard struck up
the Marsellaise. The whole assembly un-
covered and remained bare-headed during
the remainder of the proceedings.
	Before the strains of France’s stirring
national hymn had died away a mighty cry
arose of “Vive Loubet, vive la Republique,
vive la F[-]ance!”
	President Loubet stood in the front of
the tribune with M. Waldeck-Rousseau,
M. Deschanet, president of the chamber of
deputies, and M. Delcasse, minister of
foreign affairs and all of the ministers ex-
cept the Marquis de Gallifet, minister of

[olumn 2]
war, who was absent because of indisposi-
tion.
	Grouped behind him were a number of
richly uniformed officials. The acclama-
tions were still echoing through the al-
coves and galleries when President Loubet
and the ministers resumed their seats and
M. Millerand began his speech formally
handing over the exposition to the chief of
state.
	M. Millerand’s address was received with
rounds of applause which attained a veri-
table roar at its conclusion.
	President Loubet then arose and delivered
an address which was also cheered.
	M. Waldeck-Rosseau was up to the last
moment expected to speak, but he changed
his mind, and when President Loubet con-
cluded he remained seated. The orchestra
then rendered Saint Saen's hymn to Victor
Hugo, and President Loubet descended
from the trifiune. 
	Americans will especially be proud of
their country’s display at this world’s fair,
for the United Stales stands second only to
France herself in number of exhibitors,
which treble those of any foreign country.
	The highest testimonial of Americanhood
comes from Commissioner General Picard
himself. In comparing the state of pro-
gress of the installation of various nations,
he said to Commissioner Peck, ‘‘It is an
object lesson to us all to see the American
people’s work. I thank you for your
promptitude and the advanced condition of
work in the United States section.”


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	The General Conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall, in this City, Thursday, April 5,
1900, President Zina D. H. Young presid-
ing. Her counselors, Jane S. Richards,
Bathsheba W. Smith and Sarah Jane Can-
non, the secretary, E. B. Wells, and Presi-
dent M. Isabella Horne, of the Salt Lake
Stake of Zion, and many presidents from
other Stakes were on the stand.
	Meeting opened at 10 a. m. by singing
“Zion stands with hills surrounded.”
Prayer by B[-]other Redding Allred. Singing
duet by Sister Christine Anderson and her
daughter, Miss Judith Anderson, "Whisper-
ing Hope,” very beautfully rendered, Miss
Lizzie Thomas accompanying them upon
the organ.
	Secretary called the roll, response from
thirty-eignt Stakes, eighteen presidents, ten
secretaries, ten by other representatives.
Minutes of previous conference read and ac-
cepted.
	President Young gave an interesting ad-
dress of welcome and greeting to the sisters
assembled, and asked the Lord to bless us
all and renew our spirit and strength and
comfort us with His Holy Spirit.
	President Jane S. Richards would much
rather have heard from “Aunt Zina,” and
felt some others would, but wished to be
obedient at all times, and as she had been
called hoped she might be able to say a few
words of encouragement. “The Lord said
He would have a tried people and we want
to be His. Sometimes we would rather
choose our trials, but it is not given us to
do. If all had come to this meeting who
ought to have, there would not be a vacant
seat, that is how it should be. The society
was organized for the care of the sick and I


have never stayed at home when I felt that
I could go. Sister Zina wants the presi-
dents to visit their Stakes once a year at
least, if not more. We are so glad when
we can see the sisters. If we exercise faith
I believe Sister Zina will be able to visit the
sisters in their conferences.” Sister Rich-
ards urged the sisters to be good to poor
people, for we are all dependent upon the
same Father. If some are wayward, let us
coax them to return if we can. There are
many who need spiritual strength, and
there’s a great promise to the lost sheep,
we will make mistakes, but I don’t think
we should wait until people are dead, or
can’t hear us, let us do this and set a good
example.
	Sister B. W. Smith said: ‘‘My dear sis- 
ters, I greet you with a joyful greeting. I
remember when we first set out to comfort
the sick and afflicted, and to comfort each
other and look after the wayward. I was
asked to speak about the first organization
and how things were then. There were
only a few, nineteen in all, and the society
grew and increased to several hundreds and
a great interest was taken. We want to
teach righteousness in all things and to
comfort each other, and do whatever we
can to help build each other up.” Sister
Smith spoke of observing the 17th of March
and paying the donation. She would like
to see the sisters come into the Temple; how
would we feel when we pass away if we
have not done this. She recommended
reading the life of Joseph Smith in the
society, knew that he was a man of God; she
had been well acquainted with him enough
to know his daily walk and conversation.
Let us enjoy ourselves and never be weary
in well doing.
	President Young spoke upon prayer, com-
fort and wisdom, the great responsibilities 
of mothers, the foundation of all is prayer;
then urged all to pay their tithing and do-
nations, and encourage those who are not
interested to attend our meetings. It the
hill of corn is not fed by the elements it will
not grow. Let us teach the children indus-
try, how to save and economize. Referred
to Sister Eliza’s words about idleness and
uncleanliness; said she knew Sister Eliza
almost seventy years ago, and was thankful
for her being upon the earth; that we
knew her and had her with us. Loved to
look upon the faces of the Saints, they had
come from under the water, had received
the Holy Ghost. Let us do our duty and
our labors will be crowned with success
when the last day comes.
	Sister Horne: “When we hear the word
of the Lord given to us, we should observe
it. We’ve had many good things this
morning, and we should digest them when
we are performing our labors. We know
the Lord is as good as his promises, and we
should follow the teachings of the Savior
and acknowledge His hand in all things;
by this means we are proven. We are
called to help accomplish the work of God.
Solomon in summing up said: Fear God
and keep His commandments was the
whole duty of man. We have had so much
instruction from Sister Eliza and Mother
Whitney in the past, we should remember
them in love, and we expect to meet them
when we go behind the veil. There are
many insinuating spirits abroad, and we do
not want to be overcome by them. If we
walk humbly the Lord will arrest calamity
and when diseases come that baffle the
skill of the physician as mentioned in the
Book of Doctrine and Covenants, don’t be

[Column 2]
fearful, ask the Lord to help you, trust in
Him, and may the Lord help us to under-
stand our duty and teach those in our care
to keep the Sabbath day holy and work
righteousness.” Sister Horne closed with
a blessing upon all.
	Sister Mary J. West Counselor in the
Snowflake Stake, Arizona, gave an excel-
lent report of the Stake. Said they had
two Relief Society halls, they gave the first
one they built freely for the Academy and
then put up a beautiful little brick build-
ing. The spirit of the Lord is with the
Saints there, and they are comforted and
blest. Sister West offered a beautiful tri-
bute to the memory of Sister Lucy H.
Flake, who had recently passed away. She
had been president of the Primary Associa-
tions of the Stake. She was one of the
most useful women, a true Saint of God.
Sister West bore a strong testimony to the
divine mission of Joseph Smith and prayed
that the aged mothers in Israel might live
many years to teach the daughters of Zion.
	Sister Zina Y. Card, president of the Y.
L. M. I. A. of Alberta Stake, reported the
Relief Society of that Stake of Zion which
she designated as the baby Stake. The
society have one house which they pur-
chased. The 17th of March this year was
observed throughout the Stake in Cardston.
The society gave a banquet to the old
folks, all over fifty were invited. She
realized it was easier for the Saints to live
their religion in new settlements where all
were equal. Sister Card spoke strongly
for the support of the Exponent and for
the central building in this city, and alto-
gether her speech was replete with a living
testimony of the truth.
	President Elizabeth Fox, of Oneida
Stake, said she had not been able to attend
conference for a year and a half. Rejoiced
in being present and seeing the sisters who
had labored in the Relief Society ever since
the first organization. Referred to the
branch of the society in Oregon as belong-
ing to their Stake. Had tried to encourage
the sisters in taking the sacrament, knew it
was a blessing to the sisters in the society.
Prayed that we might increase in wisdom
and understanding, and train our youth in
the principles of the Gospel, teach them to
observe the law of tithing while they are
young, be charitable to the wayward and
they will turn back. Asked every blessing
upon the Saints in the name of Jesus, amen.
	Sister L. M. Hart, counselor in Bear
Lake Stake, made an excellent report. The
president, Sister Lindsay, was ill and could
not attend the conference. She referred to
the visit of Sister Jane S. Richards and
Apostle F. D. Richards to their Stake dur-
ing the last summer and how much they
appreciated the instructions particularly
upon tithing. In that Stake the society
was helping to build the Stake Academy.
On the 25th of December they made a party
for its benefit and it was the party of the
season; they realized $240.00. She felt a
school for the children of our own faith
would be the best influence for the boys
and girls to train them in the Gospel
principles. They were very much lacking
skilfull help in nursing. Physicians were
reaping a harvest. Referred to the teach-
ings of President Woodruff and felt to bear
them in mind.
	Congregation standing sang, “O, ye
mountains high’’ and benediction was offered
by President Jesse M. Smith.
E. B. Wells, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


A BRIEF SKETCH OF MY LIFE.
	My parents names were William
Cruickshank. and Mary Farquhar Cruick-
shank. I was born in Aberdeen, Scotland,
June 5, 1825, and lived there until my mar-
riage, which event took place December 22,
1843. My husband’s name was William.
Morrison, also a native of Aberdeen.
	In 1844 my husband received an appoint-
ment in Her Majesty’s dockyard, Woolwich,
Kent, England, and thither we went, in-
tending to spend the remainder of our lives
in happiness and comfort. But alas! we
are short-sighted mortals, for our Heavenly-
Father had ordered it otherwise, and dur-
ing the summer of 1847 my husband heard
the principles of the Gospel as taught by
the Latter-day Saints, which aroused in
him a spirit of inquiry to know more about
them. He had been longing for something
and knew not what, but the desire of his
heart was soon to be granted, he being
earnest and prayerful, and his prayers were
answered.
	At this time I went on a visit to my
native home and stayed four months. Dur-
ing my absence my husband had ample
opportunity to investigate for himself, and
soon became convinced of the truth of the
great Latter-day work, which soon proved a
source of joy and satisfaction to him.
	During my stay in Aberdeen my little son
was taken down with scarlet fever and
putrid sore throat; and although everything
was done that medical skill could suggest,
it was all to no purpose, my darling was
taken from me and removed to a higher
sphere and I was left to mourn.
	During this short period my husband had
heard the. Gospel preached by one of the
Elders of the Church, Thomas Bradshaw.
He believed and was baptized for the re-
mission of his sins and received the gift of
the Holy Ghost, which gave him light,
knowledge, wisdom and understanding, and
he was enabled to communicate with me
words of comfort and consolation in the
hour of our severe affliction, this being the
first great sorrow of our lives. But “The
Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away.
Blessed be his name.”
	Three weeks after the death of my boy,
the Lord blessed me with another son, and
was soon able to return to my husband
with a joyful heart, and with joy he received
me and preached to me the principles pf the
Gospel of repentance and baptism for the
remission of sins, which I gladly accepted,
making the bonds that united us more firm-
ly riveted than ever. I was baptized into
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, January 1, 1848, by Elder Thomas
Bradshaw. I felt convinced of the truth
from the first I heard it, and the Lord has
blest me ever since. He enlightened my
mind and gave me a clear conception of the
principles of eternal truth, as they were ad-
vanced to us from time to time through
divine revelation, and I have truly rejoiced
from that day to the present.
	Then the desire to emigrate took posses-
sion of us from the very beginning, and we
were in earnest looking Zionward all the
time.
	In 1850 I had a daughter born, and again
three weeks later death robbed me of my
only boy. But we prayed to our Father in
heaven to give us strength to bear our
trouble, that we might be able to hold up
under every trial.
	In 1852 another daughter was born to us,
and three weeks later my dear sister, who


[Column 1]
with her husband had embraced the Gospel,
died in childbed, leaving her husband and
one son four years old, her babe being
buried with her. It really seemed as if our
troubles were greater than we could endure,
but with prayerful hearts, exercising pati-
ence and perseverance, the Lord helped us
and we were enabled to break up our home
and make a start for Zion. Thus in Sep-
tember, 1854, we bade farewell to father,
mother, brothers and sisters, and all we
held most dear on earth, to travel to Zion in
obedience to the commands of our Father in
heaven, trusting in Him and looking ahead
for a brighter day to come.
	Our passage from Liverpool to New
Orleans took eleven weeks, and from there
to St. Louis two weeks more, making our
journey by water thirteen weeks. When
we got to St. Louis they would not allow
us to land, so we had to be quarantined two
weeks longer, and during that time we took
the cholera, thirty of our company died. I
had it very bad, but was instantly healed 
by the power of God but my two little
girls and my sister’s boy all died in one
week.  Being left childless our trials were
almost more than we could endure, but the
Lord was with us and strengthened us for
the trying ordeals we had to pass through.
When we arrived at St. Louis we found our
means had all been taken to emigrate the
poor.  As we belonged to the independent
company we had to remain there two years
and make a new outfit, which we did, and
were again able to start in April, 1856.
	During our stay in St. Louis I had a
daughter born who lived just ten months;
so, you see, I left three of my own girls and
my nephew laid there to rest to await the
resurrection of the just. Surely I had all
I could endure, but the Lord gave me
strength equal to my day, and I never once
looked back.
	We arrived in Salt Lake City September
22, 1856, just three weeks before the first
handcart company. We got us a home in
Salt Lake City on our arrival, and were
very comfortable. We had a son born
December 9, 1856, all well.
	We remained in Salt Lake City until the
brethren were called to Echo canyon to
meet Johnston’s army, my husband being
among the first. During his absence
Bishop Woolley called from the stand to
find out who would be ready to start south
next morning. I raised my hand, and
started at 9 a. m. with my infant son,
Willie, in my arms. My friends came
around me and begged me not to go farther
than Provo and they would soon come.
They were Sisters Kent, Richards, Caine,
Gates, Colbrook.
	So we said goodbye for a little while and
traveled on till we arrived at Provo, and
the brother who owned the team said,
“Now, Sister Morrison, this is Provo, how
far will you go with us?’’ I said, “How
far do you go?’’ He said, “One hundred
miles farther.” “Then,” said I, “if you
will take me I will go as far as the team
will carry me, for I feel that is where the
Lord wants me to be.’’ So we drove right
to Ephraim. I did not see my husband for
eleven weeks, but it was a joyful greeting
when we did meet.
	We lived in Ephraim from the spring of
1858 till the spring of 1859, my daughter,
Mina being born on March 13. As soon
as I was able we moved to Mt. Pleasant,
where we remained living in the Fort [-]ll
the spring of 1865. February 15 my
daughter, Tina, was born, and one month

[Column 2]
later we moved into our new “Home sweet
Home.”
	In 1865 my husband was called upon to
lead a company of thirty, to make a loca-
tion in Sevier Co., which he did in 1867.
The settlement of people were driven from
their homes by Indians and lost all they
had. By this time my husband's families
were getting numerous, he having three
wives. After a while President Young
called on those Saints to try it again, which
they did, and have remained there ever
since.
	In 1868 Bishop Wm. S. Seeley was called
upon to organize the Relief Society, which
he did and nominated me as president. He
also nominated Sister Madsen first counselor,
Sister Dehlian second counselor. When
called to fill this important position I felt
helpless as a child, and felt it utterly im-
possible for me to fulfill the duties of that
office with propriety. I prayed earnestly
to the Lord to help me and give me wisdom
that I might be able to do my part in a man-
ner that would be pleasing and acceptable
unto Him, also to fill the office with credit
to myself and satisfaction to all concerned.
	It will be thirty-two years on the 11th of
May since our Relief Society was organized,
and I can truthfully say that our sisters
have been all that I could wish or desire.
They have been always ready and on hand
to give aid and assistance when called upon,
to visit the sick or to minister to the wants
and necessities of the poor and those in
distress. I can also say that no one has
ever called for help and been refused. With
regard to the dead of Mt. Pleasant, we sis-
ters have dressed and laid away between
six and seven hundred, and you know that
means work. But the Lord has greatly
blessed our labors and given us strength
equal to the task before us.
	I am proud to be able to say the sisters
are most liberal in contributing to the wants
of the poor, also in responding to any call
made upon them, and do so cheerfully,
without a murmur or complaint. I know
it is due to the prayers of the sisters who
are associated with me, that I have been
enabled to keep on as I have and feel as I
do. Our desire is to live humble and faith-
ful, and strive to do unto others as we
would wish to be done unto.
	That we may be able to run the race and
gain the prize which has been laid up for
the faithful, is my desire and prayer in the
name of Jesus, amen.
					M. F. C. MORRISON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


PIONEER WOMAN.
With seventy-five years of life behind her
and another well nigh completed, and with
many a hardship bravely borne, Mrs.
Elizabeth Murphy McLelland, a pioneer of
’48 and widow of Thomas McLelland,
second Bishop of the Seventh Ward, of this
city, passed from mortality at her home in
Farmers Ward, Thursday, April 12.
The . deceased was born in Manahan,
Ireland, in Ausust, 1824. Having em-
braced the “Mormon” faith she sailed from
her native land in 1844, and went to Nau-
voo where she resided until the expulsion
of the Saints. During her residence there
she became well acquainted with the
Prophet Joseph Smith and was a firm be-
liever in him and the doctrines he taught.
Mrs. McLelland was among the first
“Mormons” who departed from Nauvoo,but
remained in the various camps in Iowa un-
til the fall of 1848 when she came on to


Utah one year after the arrival of her hus-
band’s team.
    Seven living children, numerous grand- 
children and a host of friends mourn Mother
McLelland’s demise. Her children are, in
the order of their ages: Mrs.Thomas A.
Starr, of Cassia County, Idaho, who arrived
in Salt Lake a few days before her mother’s
death; Mrs. Margaret Palmer; Thomas
McLelland, of Farmers Ward; Edward
McLelland, ex-deputy sheriff; Sarah Lisle,
of San Mateo, California, and Mrs. Horace
Stayner, of Salt Lake.


R. S. AND P. A. REPORTS

	ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATION.

    On March 17th last the Relief Society of
Forest Dale Ward convened for the purpose
of celebrating the first organization of the
Relief Society, Louisa Stevenson presiding.
    After singing and prayer, the minutes of
the first organization of the Relief Society
were read, after which the following pro-
gram was rendered:
    Sketch of the life of Sister Bathsheba W.
Smith, by Stake Counselor Mary P. Young.
Duet, by Miilie Kimball and Maggie
Summerhayes. Select reading, by Sister
Belle Hansen. Recitation, “The Changed
Cross,” by Sister Nellie Fowler. Song, by
Sisters Libbie Pratt and Maggie Summer-
hayes. Guitar selection, by Hazel and
Geneva Love. Song, by Hannah Gates
and Rhoda Laird.
    There was a good spirit manifest and all
rejoiced exceedingly in the work of the
Lord.
				AGNES RUMEL, Sec.

		ORANGEVILLE.
    The annual meeting of the Orangeville
Relief Society was held in the Relief Soci-
ety hall, March 17, 1900, at ten o'clock a.
m., and was a testimony meeting, with
President Rhoda E. Robertson presiding.
Singing by the Relief Society choir, “How
firm a foundation.” Prayer by Charles H.
Oliphant. Singing, “Praise to the man who
communed with Jehovah.”
    President R. E. Robertson welcomed the
visitors who were with us. Reading from
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, by Lucinda C.
Curtis.
    Stake President Anna U. Larson ex-
pressed her pleasure in meeting with the
Orangeville Relief Society. Said she had a
testimony to bear; she would never have
left her native land but for the knowledge
that this was the work of God.
    Maria Guymon bore her testimony that
this is the work of the Lord, and Rachel 
Killian felt proud to say that she had al-
ways been a member of the Relief Society.
Felt that mothers had one of the greatest
missions on earth to fill in rearing their
children properly.
    Sister Susanna Jewkes bore her testi-
mony to the goodness of the Lord. Bishop
Jasper Robertson said the spirit of the Lord
was with us, and that thousands were cele-
brating this day. President R. G. Miller
congratulated the sisters on the great oppor-
tunities they enjoy.
    Professor B. Cluff, Jr. bore a strong testi-
mony to the divine mission of the Prophet
Joseph Smith.
    Singing “O, say what is truth.”
    Professor George Cluff spoke of the many
branches of the Relief Society that exist to-
day, and all carrying peace and kindness
with them.
    Singing, “The spirit of God like a fire is


[Column 1]
burning,” Benediction by Bishop Robert-
son.
	Afternoon session, presided over by Sister
Jane Moffatt. Singing, “Now let us re-
joice.” Prayer by Andrew Anderson.
Singing, “O, my Father.” Opening re-
marks by Rhoda E. Robertson. Song by
Jane R. Cox and company. Maria Guyman
gave a sketch of the first Relief Society or-
ganized by President Joseph Smith. Reci-
tation by Mary Jewkes. Remarks by
Bishop Robertson. Song by Emma
Higgs. Essay, by Sarah A. Ful-
mer. Song by Mary A. Sorensen and
company. Music by the Snow Brothers.
Remarks by Stake President Anna U.
Larsen. Solo, Joseph Jewkes. Song,
Grace Oliphant. Remarks, Anna Pulsi-
pher. Hymn, “Weep, weep not for me
Zion.” Passing of picnic. Hymn, “We
thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.” Bene-
di[-]on by A. G. Jewkes.
	RHODA E. ROBERTSON, Pres.
	JANE R. COX, Sec.
KAMAS.
	The sisters of the Kamas Relief Society
met in annual anniversary meeting at the
Kamas meeting house, March 17, 1900,
President Ann Harder presiding. A num-
ber of the brethren were also present.
	The choir sang “An angel from on high.”
Prayer by Sister Laura Pack. Singing,
“Praise to the man.”
	President Ann Harder made a few pleas-
ing opening remarks, adding that as Sister
Ruth Pack was unable to be present on ac-
count of illness, Sister Julia I. Pack would
give an address.
	Sister Pack expressed pleasure at the
privilege of celebrating this anniversary,
spoke of the first organization of which she
was a member, and of the wonderful increase
and progress made, and of the great amount
of good accomplished. Prayed the Lord’s
blessing on all faithful workers in the
cause.
	Presidents May Simpson and Katie
Burbidge sang a duet.
	Sister Emma Pack recited “The Starless
Crown,” after which the minutes of the
first organization were read by Counselor
Margaret A. Woodard, who added a few
interesting remarks on the work of the
society.
	Counselor Willet S. Harder spoke on
Church organization and Relief Society
work and bore a powerful testimony.
	President Ward E. Pack spoke of the
great mission of the sisters and their power
for good, and of the aid rendered in this
Stake in assisting the authorities in accom-
plishing good.
	President Ann Harder gave a short sketch
of work done the past year, and made all
present welcome to the feast.
	An original poem was read by Sister
Edith Lambert, the choir sang “The Spirit
of God,” and closing prayer by W. S.
Harder.
	Tables were then set and all partook of
the good things prepared in rich abundance.
After social chat and reminiscences of other
days, the company separated with the
feeling that another pleasant landmark was
reached in the journey of life.
	EDITH LAMBERT, Ass’t. Sec’y.
RELIEF SOCIETY, PANGUITCH STAKE.
Reorganized.
	Our Relief Society was to be reorganized
at our Stake conference, and then the sis-
ter who was elected for president was absent-

[Column 2]
and we thought best to wait until she ac’
cepted and was set apart with the other
officers, which was done on the 17th of
March, at the close of our celebration, and
was as follows: Elizabeth Delong, presi-
dent; Alice Jane Cameron, Hannah A.
Crosby, counselors; Hannah A. Crosby,
secretary, M. Isabella Henrie, treasurer.
	Our president desired to attend the con-
ference and intended to if possible, and may
have been there, I am not quite sure. We
have had no Stake organization for nearly
two years and no report, except that we
have heard from all the wards and all are
in fairly good condition but one, Cleveland,
which is practically disorganized on account
of so many moving away.
	We feel that Sister Delong will fill the
position satisfactorily to all, and we will be
pleased to receive any instructions the
General Board may have to give.
	HANNAH A. CROSBY. Sec.
FARMINGTON
	It is some time since anything from our
Relief Society appeared in the columns of
the EXPONENT, we therefore thought per-
haps a brief report of our meeting of the
17th of March might be of interest.
	The meeting was held at the Farming-
ton vestry, President Helen Miller presid-
ing. After the Opening exercises the
secretary read an article from the Expo-
nent explaining the object of the meet-
ing, it being to celebrate the first organiza-
tion of the Relief Society by the Prophet
Joseph Smith.
	Mrs. Lucy A. Clark read the original
minutes of the first meeting held, with
Eliza R. Snow secretary, also gave a
sketch of the Relief Society of Farmington
from its organization, June 3, 1868, until
the present. It was very interesting.
	“O, my Father” was then rendered.
Sister Annie Tanner gave a much appre-
ciated sketch of the life and labors of Sis-
ter Eliza R. Snow Smith, and concluded
by giving one of her beautiful poems.
	Interesting and instructive remarks were
made, testimonies borne by Stake Counsel-
or Mary S. Clark, President Helen Miller,
Sisters Hannah Miller Julia Steed, Caroline
Bigler, Temperance Moon, et al.
	A very enjoyable time was spent, the
spirit of the Lord was with us in a marked
degree, softening the feelings of all pres-
ent so that many were in tears. After
singing and benediction meeting was ad-
journed.
	MINERVA RICHARDS KNOWLTON,
								Secretary.
TWENTY-FOURTH WARD ANNIVERSARY.
	Minutes of the entertainment given on
the 17th of March in honor of the first or-
ganization in the Twenty-Fourth Ward,
Salt Lake City. We had a very enjoyable
time and a good spirit prevailed.
	We commenced the meeting by singing
“We thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.”
Prayer by Brother Wilson. Continued by
singing “How firm a foundation.”
	Sister Mary Howell read the minutes of
the first organization in Nauvoo, Ill.
	Brother Gill made a few remarks. Said
he was pleased to be with us and spoke of
Relief Society work.
	Solo, by Lottie Cottom, “Flee as a Bird.”
	Recitation by Brother Cottom, Sen.,
“The Convert’s Dream,” composed when
Brother Cottom was imprisoned for his re-
ligious principles. Remarks by J. W. Roe,
who spoke about the celebration of the or-
ganization.

[Column 3]
	Brother Edwards sang a Welsh song,
“Time Waits for no Man.”
	Duet by Lunie and May Harmen.
	Refreshments were served by Sister Kate
Ames and her aids, and after intermission
the exercises were resumed.
	Song by Sister Johnson. Brother J. W.
Christenson made a few remarks and gave
good instructions to the society.
	President Nightingale thanked the sisters
for all they had done expressed her good
wishes and prayed God to bless us one and
all.
	Meeting closed by singing “Guide, us, O
Thou Great Jehovah.” Minutes of the
meeting were read and accepted.” Bene-
diction by Brother Backman.
		NELLIE A. MORRIS, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.
Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sister
Josephine Hansen,
	Sister Josephine Hansen departed this life at her
home in Heber City, Utah, March 16, 1900, aged
fifty-nine years lacking one hour. Her death
happening at this time is a very sad occurrance, as
her husband, Peter Hansen, is laboring in the
missionary field in Denmark. He has been ab-
sent from home almost two years. She has been a .
faithful member of the Heber east ward Relief
Society.
	Resolved, That it is but a just tribute to the
memory of the departed to say that in sorrowing
over her removal from our midst, we mourn for 
one that was faithful and worthy of our respect
and love.
	Resolved, That we, the officers, in behalf of the
members of the east ward Relief Society, do
mourn for her, realizing that we have lost a noble
sister and colaborer.
	Resolved, That we tender our heartfelt sym-
pathy to the bereaved family.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
placed on the records of the Relief Society and a
copy be sent to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publi-
cation.
				SARAH BOND, President.
				EDDA R. JOHNSON, Sec.
SISTER HENRIETTA HOMAR YOUNG.
	Sister Henrietta Homar Young was born in
Reisoer, Norway, April 6, 1842, was baptized into
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in
1853 and was married to H. O. Young in Rockport,
Summit Co., Utah, November 12, 1860, and died
of heart failure, at Parley’s Park, Summit Co.,
Utah, October 27, 1899.
	She was a true Saint, a loving wife and mother
and was the mother of nine children, three of
whom died in infancy. She leaves a loving hus-
band, six children and a wide circle of friends to
mourn her loss. Her children are all married.
	She was an earnest worker in the Relief Society
and a true mother in Israel. Ten minutes before
she died she was engaged in helping with a party
for the first misssonary that had been called from
our ward. She died without a minute’s warning
to those around her. She was greatly beloved by
all who knew her and her death has cast a gloom
over all the ward. She was a kind, true friend in
joy or sorrow, and the only comfort there is in her
loss is knowing she has gone to the presence of our
Father in heaven.					COM.


PRIMARY CONFERENCE. 
	Minutes of Primary Conference of the
Salt Lake Stake, held in the Assembly
Hall, March 17, 1900, President Camilla
C. Cobb presiding. Opened by singing,
“We are the children of the Saints.” Pray-
er by Master David W. Cummings, of the
Nineteenth ward. Singing, “Did you
think to pray?” Roll call with twenty-
two associations represented, and minutes
of previous conference read and approved.
	The first exercise on the program was a
song of welcome, by members from the
Ninth Ward. Tillie Thomas, from the
Nineteenth Ward, read an essay On Pri-
mary work. The story of Samuel was re-
peated by Heber Mathews, from the Fifth
Ward. Motion song, by nine little girls


from the Eleventh Ward. Violin solo, by
Samuel Newton, from the Nineteenth
Ward. Questions and answers on the life
of Joseph Smith, by two little girls from
the Twenty-first Ward. Duet, by two
little girls from the Seventeenth Ward.
Mandolin solo, by Ettie Browning, from
the Third Ward.
	Counselor Joseph E. Taylor addressed
the conference. Expressed great pleasure
in listening to the exercises by the children.
Gave good counsel and advice, especially
to the boys in regard to swearing and being
destructive. Said children should honor
and obey their parents and teachers, their
love and counsel cannot be exceled. Asked
the children why we were brothers and
sisters? Said it was because we were
baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ.
Spoke words of praise for teachers and
children. Prayed God to bless us.
	President Nellie C. Taylor, of the Y. L.
M. I. A., complimented the children on
their good behavior and urged them to be
prayerful. Related an instance of a little
boy coasting, who came very nearly being
killed, and knew he was saved because he
had said his prayers that morning.
	A duet was rendered by Silva and
Frances Vowley, from the First Ward.
	President Louie B. Felt, of the General
Board, said she had listened with pleasure
to the sentiments that had been given; was
also pleased with the large attendance of
children. Urged them to remember what
Brother Taylor had said to them in regard
to obeying parents and teachers. Wanted
every little boy and girl to be a missionary
and bring some one with them to the next
conference.
	By request the children from the Eleventh
Ward gave another motion song.
	President Zina D. H. Young, of the
Relief Society, spoke a few words to the
children in regard to having faith to be
healed; made other remarks.
	Singing, “We thank Thee, O God, for a
prophet.” Benediction by Master Eli
Eliason, of the Thirteenth Ward.
			ELLA W. HYDE, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


U. W. P. C.
	The U. W. P. C. held its regular
meeting in the EXPONENT office, on March
21, 1900, the president, Mrs. Schiller, pre-
siding. Opening prayer, Ruth M. Fox.
The roll was called, members responding
with original sentiments, after which the
business before the club was considered.
	The second circular on the Industral
Problem was read, and the president re-
ported from the club council. The Con-
sumers League was then discussed. A
communication was read regarding the edu-
cational work.
	Mrs. Wells announced to the club that
Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Stetson would be
here on the 25th of April. A recommend-
ation was read asking for the names of the
club, after which the following program
was carried out:
	A poem composed by Lucy A. Clark,
entitled “Wedding Bells,” was read by
Ruth M. Fox. Phebe C. Young read a
paper on Manilla, and Aimee C. Schiller
read Current Events.
	It was decided that the club hold a special
meeting during the month, invite the
Reapers’ Club to meet with us and have
Emma J. McVicker talk on education. 
	Prayer, Rebecca Doolan.
				GRACE ANDERSON, Sec.


LETTER TO SILK RAISERS.
	Mrs. Margaret A. Caine, secretary of the
Utah Silk Commission, has issued a circu-
lar letter to prospective silk culturists, a
copy of which here follows:
	“The Utah Silk Commission desires to
call attention to the fact that the time for
raising silk is again upon us, and we trust
that those who intend entering upon the
work this year will write to us at once for
eggs. Those who are taking up the work
for the first time will kindly state the num-
ber and size of the trees from which they
can obtain leaves; also the number of per-
sons who can give their time during the
latter period of the raising season, so that
we will be able to send the necessary quan-
tity of eggs.
	“We also desire to state that eggs can be
obtained from the commission free, and we
would prefer every one who is going to
raise the worms to have seed from us, as
we provide a quality which gives a much
better result than those raised by people
having no experience. We will also send
pamphlet of instructions free to those wish-
ing any information upon the subject.
	“We trust that many people throughout
the State have already planted numbers of
mulberry trees, and have been watchful
lest any of those which have grown are in
danger of being destroyed. We also wish
to say to those who have trees, and do not
care to use them, that they may do a great
deal towards establishing this important
industry by allowing others to use the
leaves, and we assure you that it will only
benefit the trees even if they are stripped
several times, they will soon become much
more thrifty, and this will also be a means
of disposing of the fruit which is sometimes
an annoyance, especially when trees are
planted on the street.
	“As a whole, the commission feels very
much encouraged with the results of last
years work, and trust it will be very much
increased this year. All communications
should be addressed to Margaret A. Caine,
Secretary Utah Silk Commission, Salt Lake
City, Utah.


[Column 1]
90% OF AMERICAN WOMEN
wash dishes three times each day. If you are one
of these, wear a pair of “Goodyear” Rubber
Gloves and always have soft, white hands. Sent
by mail postpaid, on receipt of $1.59 Agents
wanted. Address, M. O. Dept.,
M. F. Reese Supply Co., Setauket, N. Y.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 67, 69 & 71 Main St., 
SALT LAKE CITY. 

The Leading Retail.
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS


[Column 2]
[logo of a shield]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD’S PICTORIAL LINE.

[to the right of the logo]
THE PEOPLE’S FAVORITE.

			Leave Salt Lake City
No. 6	The “Fast Mail” for Chicago, St. Paul, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and
		Park City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7 00 a.m.
No. 2	The “Overland Limited” for Chicago, St. 
		Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
		Denver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	11 45 a.m.
No. 4	The “Atlantic Express” for Chicago, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver . .	6 40 p.m.
		
			Arrive Salt Lake City.
No. 5 	The “Fast Mail” from Chicago, St. Louis,
		Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and Park
		City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3 00 p.m.
No. 1 	The “Overland Limited” from Chicago, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver . .	3 00 p.m.
No. 3 	The ‘Pacific Express” from Chicago, St. 
		Paul, St Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
		Denver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3 30 p.m.
CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 Main St.			Telephone 665.
						H. M. CLAY, General Agent.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah. 
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts. 
		The laws of Utah permit married 
	women and also children who are minors 
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account?  If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol- 
	lar to thousands, and compute said 
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

The Most Convenient Local Train Service
in the State is given by the . . . . . .
OREGON SHORT LINE
RAILROAD. 
FIVE Fast Daily Trains Each Way between
	 Salt Lake City and Ogden . . . . . .

See that your tickets read via the
		“SHORT LINE”
			And Get the best.
CITY TICKET OFFICE for tickets to all points, 100 West 
	Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.
S. W. ECCLES,		D. E. BURLEY,
	Gen’l Tfc. Mgr.		G. P. & T. A


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 28.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1900.		No. 24


CONTENTS.
One Who Saw Gen. Lafayette . . . . . . . . . .
			Mary Ellen Kimball . . . . . .	120
Report of Utah Society D. R. .  E. B. Wells	129
Anniversaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	130
Ladies’ Monthly Meeting . Julia A. Wooley	130
A Beautiful Life . . . . . . . . . . . . . . E, B. W,	131
Address to Gen. Assembly D. R. E. B. Wells	131
Colonial Dames of America . . . . . . . . . . . .	131
Gen. Conference Relief Society E. B. Wells	133
Anniversary meeting and Dedication . E. S.	134
Oneida Stake Conference . . . . Annie Hatch	135
Obiturary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	135
EDITOBIAL—Volume Twenty-eight . . . . .	132
Gen. Society Daughters of the Revolution .	132
Brigham Young’s Birthday . . . . . . . . . . . . .	132
Editorial Notes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	132
POETRY—Women and War Ella W. Wilcox	129
The Last Letter . . . . . . . . . . Lydia D. Alder	131


WOMEN AND WAR.
We women teach our little sons how wrong
And how ignoble blows are; school and church
Support our precepts and innoculate
The growing minds with thoughts of love and
	peace,
“Let dogs delight to bark and bite,” we say;
But human beings with immortal souls
Must rise above the methods of a brute
And walk with reason and with self-control.

And then—dear God! you men, you wise, strong
	men,
Our self-announced superiors in brain,
Our peers in judgment, you go forth in war!
You leap at one another, mutilate
And starve and kill your fellowmen and ask
The world’s applause for such heroic deeds. 
You boast and strut; and if no song is sung,
No laudatory epic writ in blood,
Telling how many widows you have made,
Why then, perforce, you say our bards are dead
And inspiration sleeps to wake no more,
And we, the women, we whose lives you are—

What can we do but sit in silent homes
And wait and suffer? Not for us the blare
Of trumpets and the bugle’s call to arms— 
For us no waving banners, no supreme.
Triumphant hour of conquest. Ours the slow,
Dread torture of uncertainty, each day  
The bootless battle with the same despair,
And when at best your victories reach our ears,
There reaches with them to our pitying hearts,
The thought of countless homes made desolate
And other women weeping for their dead.

O men, wise men, superior beings say,
is there no substitute for war in this
Great age and era ?		* * *
Why should we women waste our time and words
in talking peace when men declare for war?
				ELLA WHEELER WILCOX.


ONE WHO SAW GENERAL LAFAYETTE.
	It is indeed a great satisfaction to me to
know that the school children of our nation
have contributed their pennies toward
the erection of the monument in Paris to
America’s great friend, Gen. Lafayette.
	This carries me back to the days of my
childhood, when I saw this great and good
friend to Gen. Washington, who, by the
help of the Deity gained the victory for the
American people and we became a free and
independent nation.
	Now, I must tell you when and how I
saw Gen. Lafayette. It was in the year
1824, on his last visit to America. I was
but a child about seven years of age. My
home was at Whitesborough, four miles
west of Utica, New York. This being the


home of Col. White, it was named for him,
I suppose; and he being a choice friend of
Gen. Lafayette’s, he chose to come there to
make him a visit.
	I shall never forget the bowery erected on
this occasion; so high, and covered with
evergreens and flowers—so lovely I can see
it yet, the floor covered with a nice carpet,
a sofa, a few chairs and a table for the clerk
to write his speech. The floor or platform
being raised about two feet from the ground,
the people must step up there to shake
hands with him, which, of course, every-
body wanted to do.
	I took great pleasure in looking at him.
He was a fine looking old gentleman, about
sixty years of age, I should think. After
speaking, he requested that he might have
dinner under the large oak tree in front of
Col. White’s house, where he had eaten in
the time of the Revolution, with Col.
White. This was done, everybody helping
to do it. The children had the pleasure of
being spectators, and finally went home,
when all was over, hearing the music of
some of the war tunes, I suppose.
	Although I was but a child, I find we
can well remember, and find such things
make a lasting impression on the mind.
		MARY ELLEN KIMBALL.
April 23, 1900.


[Column 1]
REPORT OF UTAH SOCIETY D. R.
BY MRS. E. B. WELLS.
	[Read at a meeting of the General Society in
New York City, April 24, 1900, by Miss M.
Mabelle Snow.]
Madame President General, and Daughters of
	the Revolution:
	Time flies so swiftly that it seems but
yesterday since we made our report to the
annual meeting, in Philadelphia, last year,
and I regret that we have not made greater
progress in actual work, or greater increase
in membership; however we are not dis-
couraged, but of the many who have prom-
ised to join us, we hope to double our num-
ber this year. It is not for want of
patriotic sentiment that our growth has
been slow, but owing more to the many
duties and responsibilities that claim atten-
tion. Nearly all our members are interested
in other organizations that occupy so much
precious time, and that seem more essential
to everyday life, in the present.
	Yet our hearts are deeply touched with
the spirit of this work, and we are expect-
ing to make a special study of the Colonial
period. So far the papers read at our
meetings have all been of a patriotic and
historic character, even those descriptive of
the visit of the delegation last year to
Pennsylvania. Busy women, especially
mothers of families, find it a little difficult
to adapt themselves to a regular course of
study. I fear I am only telling you what
has not been done instead of reporting the
few things that the Society has undertaken.
Besides regular business meetings, we have
held several social gatherings that have
been successful in binding us more closely
together, and we have always aimed to
make them patriotic in outward seeming by

[Column 2]
displaying the stars and stripes in decorat-
ing, and wearing the national colors, as
well as intensely patriotic in reality and in
the character of our exercises.
	As a Society we are proud of the oppor-
tunity to contribute to the Valley Forge
Monument Fund, and sincerely hope to do
more in the future for so noble a purpose,as
beautifying that historic spot made forever
memorable in the history of American inde-
pendence.
	We celebrated the Boston Tea Party in the
very best style possible at so remote a
period, and so far removed from the scene
of actual occurrences. All our music, exer-
cises, poems and papers were descriptive of
the memorable, historic event, and our re-
freshments were old Yankee delicacies. We
had a number of invited guests who gave
toasts and made stirring speeches with the
true ring of heroism.
	We expected to observe the nineteenth of
April, the battle of Lexington, in as appro-
priate a manner as possible, and make the
day impressive with music national songs,
etc., but were forestalled in this by
the Sons of the American Revolution
who arranged a magnificent reception and
ball in our city, and honored our Society
as well as the D. A. R., by inviting every
member of both societies to unite with them
in commemorating the day; so we must
look for the next remarkable day of revolu-
tionary fame and make a record for our
Society worthy of mention in our history.
	If we have not added new members in
the ordinary way, we have had an increase
of both sons and daughters of revolutionary
descent that in a few years may add to the
membership of the little juniors. These
little strangers have gladdened the hearts
and homes into which their advent has
been made. Two sons and two daughters
have been born to our young mothers since
our report last year; and we have also had
one marriage, Miss Farnsworth, of our last
year’s delegation, to Mr. Henry C. Lund,
attorney at law. This fact may have re-
tarded our work somewhat, as also the ab-
sence of the Regent, in London, duing the
summer months attending the International
Council and Congress of Women.
	At the annual meeting, March 1st, the
Utah Society presented the retiring Regent
with one of the elegant badges of the D. R.
which was an expression of love and appre-
ciation on their part she felt most deeply,
and while proud and happy to wear it, rep-
resenting, as it does, the principles for
which the Society stands, it must and will
be a constant reminder of the obligations
accepted when uniting herself with the
Daughters of the Revolution throughout
this, glorious Republic of America, and
should make each of us who wear it more
truly the representatives of those great
principles of freedom and liberty for which
our ancestors fought so valiantly and en-
dured so much.
	The election of officers resulted in an all
most entire new Board, and as they are al-
comparatively young women, it is ardently
hoped, at least by the retiring Regent, that
the work accomplished this coming year


may eclipse all that has heretofore been
even contemplated.
	As a list of names of officers has already
been forwarded to the secretary, it is need-
less to give them here as most of them
would be unknown, and we will, therefore,
let their future works praise them.
	It is doubtless understood by all members
present that the Utah society is incorpor-
ated and that though little has been done
in the past, as we are still in babyhood, yet
we have “Great Expectations’ and look for-
ward to the time when the General Society
will honor Utah by holding its annual
meeting in the valley of the Great Salt
Lake, where only half a century ago the
Great American Desert lay barren and
desolate, peopled only by savages. Our
members, with the exception of the writer,
were all born and reared in that inter-
mountain region, yet their heritage of free-
dom is like your own, and they hold as
dear and as precious the gifts bequeathed
from their honored ancestry,—freedom,
liberty and individual responsibility.
	Should you come and hold your annual
meeting in Utah, you would receive a
royal welcome to our hearts and homes, and
behold the grandeur of the everlasting hills
that stand like sentinels around our valley,
and the famous Salt Lake, the Dead Sea of
America.
	We congratulate the General Society on
the standard of excellence it has attained,
and so far as the Utah society may be able
to assist, we pledge its support to help for-
ward this patriotic movement in every way
possible with hearts and hands and earnest
endeavors; for we in the West, like our
Eastern sisters, are devoted heart and soul
to the principles of American Independence.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting was
held in the Fourteenth Ward hall, April
14, 1900, with Counselor Elizabeth J.
Stevenson presiding. Singing, “Though
nations rise.” Prayer, Counselor Elizabeth
Webb. Singing, “Welcome best of all
good meetings.” Minutes of January 6,
1900, read and approved.
	President Horne came in and addressed
the meeting: “We as sisters are thankful
for the day that these meetings were or-
ganized. The sisters come here and are
fed the bread of life and their burdens are
lightened. The adversary has a great deal
more power than we think and we must
gain strength to resist this power.” Spoke
of the trials of Job and bow he proved him-
self faithful to God. “We must be very
charitable and not judge one another harsh-
ly, but cleanse and purify ourselves. We
must not find fault with the authorities.
When the law is given us it is our duty to
obey.”
	Sister Barrow said she knew we had to
be tried and proven. Believed the mothers
had a great responsibility to bear, we must
live near unto God, never neglect our
prayers and teaching our children the princi-
ples of the Gospel.
	Sister Johnson said she felt thal our being
here today was an evidence that we have a
testimony. Said she knew this was the
Church of God.
	Sister Barton felt that it was a great
privilege to know this is the Church of
God, and she knew it:
	Sister Martha Morris sang a hymn and
the congregation joined with her.
	Counselor E. J. Stevenson said she al

[Column 2]
ways had attended these meetings since their
organization fifty years ago, and was thank-
ful she had had the privilege. Spoke of the
death of her son and how the Lord had
shown to her that he would lose nothing by
his premature death. Spoke of the neces-
sity of prayer, and that this is a progressive
religion. Wished the young sisters would
meet with the elder sisters, felt it would be
such a help to them in raising their chil-
dren. Realized it was necessary for us to
do Temple work.
	The congregation sang “The trials of the
present day,” led by Sister Martha Morris.
	Sister R. R. Grant said she loved the
society of the Saints, felt to thank all for
their faith in her behalf in the prayers that
had been offered for her hearing. She had
visited all the Temples and had been bap-
tized in all of them. Spoke of her ac-
quaintance with the mother of the Prophet
Joseph and others associated with him.
Believed we were the most blessed people
on the earth. Felt we should set a good
example before our children and how nec-
cessary it waff for the young people to pre-
pare themselves to carry on this work of
the Lord.
	Sister Dora Pratt, from Mexico, said she
was a teacher in the Relief Society there.
They were far away, but were striving to
work in unison with the society here. She
felt that the women of the Latter-day Saints
had great and grand privileges.
	Sister E. Webb felt that the good that
can be accomplished by the society was un-
limited, wondered what we should do with-
out it. Spoke of the great gift of faith,
and how it should be cultivated among us,
related how she was healed by the power of
faith. Spoke of the many temptations sur-
rounding us.
	Sister Silver spoke of the blessing that
tithing paying had been to her, felt that the
Lord was so good to us. The path of duty
is the path of safety.
	Sister Butterworth spoke of her experience
in crossing the plains, and how God had
blessed her. She was the mother of eigh-
teen children.
	President Horne related a dream of Presi-
dent Woodruff; also related how her grand-
children had been healed by faith.
	Sister Bateman bore a testimony of the
truth, and Sister Woodward, from Kamas,
Summit Co., said she felt thankful for the
privilege of attending these meetings and
of being a member of the Church. She
had been a member fifty years.
	Counselor Stevenson admonished all to
teach their children and grandchildren the
principles of the Gospel, if you do not
understand the principles, get some one
who can explain them.
	Meeting adjourned for four weeks, every
other is the officers’ meeting. Singing,
Doxology. Benediction by J. S. Woolley.
		JULIA A. WOOLEY, Sec.


[Column 1]
ANNIVERSARIES.
CEDAR CITY.
	March 17 was celebrated by the Relief
Society holding a meeting in the Taber-
nacle. The usual opening exercises were
rendered, and readings, speeches, songs
and recitations made an agreeable time for
all present.
	The 2nd of March was the 80th anni-
versary of the birth of one of our pioneer
sisters of this place, Sister Margaret S.
Mackelprang. A party was given by

[Column 2]
members of the family at the home of her
eldest daughter. Many friends and rela-
tives met in honor of her birthday, and a
pleasant time was enjoyed by all.
	Sister Mary A. Dover, an active mem- 
ber of our society, also reached the sixtieth
year of her age on the 20th of this month,
and her numerous family, with many
friends assembled at her home to com-
memorate the occasion.
				J. P. M., Cor. Sec.
CHESTERFIELD.
	The Relief Society celebrated anniversary
day, March 17, 1900, by fasting and prayer.
Meeting was presided over by President
Columbia F. Loveland. Singing. Prayer,
Bishop J A. Toleman. Singing. The
roll was called and minutes of meeting
held one year ago were read.
	Sister Mary E. Parker read an article on
the organization of the Relief Society of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
The meeting was then given into the hands
of the brethren and sisters present to occupy
in bearing their testimonies.
	Sister Mary A. Call, Stake president, felt
thankful when the president spoke about
celebrating in fasting and prayer; was also
thankful that none had been laid away
since our last celebration. Spoke to the
mothers about living lives worthy of imi-
tation.
	Alice Yancey and Ann Sessions, counsel-
ors to President Loveland, felt that it was
good to fast and come and speak of the
goodness of God towards us.
	President C. F. Loveland was pleased to
see so many present, especially as the sis-
ters felt that they were doing their duty and
thought it would do us good to fast.
	Sister Sarah M. Call, counselor to the
Stake president, asked the Lord to help us
live unitedly.
	Sisters Mary A. Toleman and Mary V.
Muir each bore faithful testimonies to the
work we are engaged in, also Sisters
Martha Reese, Rosetta Loveland and
Elizabeth Loveland spoke of the goodness
of God towards them, also of the good
work we are engaged in.
	We then had instrumental music by
Charlotte Toleman, after which Sisters Fannie
Call, Clara Jenson, Mary Loveland, Dora
Barlow and Ella Toleman bore their testi-
monies.
	Bishop Toleman said he had been well
paid in coming and listening to the testi-
monies of the sisters. Was thankful for
the labors the sisters had done in this ward.
	Counselor Carlos Loveland said this was
the first Relief Society meeting he ever at-
tended, but hoped it would not be the last,
he thought the sisters a great help.
	Brother Nickles, of Salt Lake Co., felt at
home, as he felt the same spirit that existed
everywhere among the Saints. He had
also enjoyed the meeting very much.
	Sisters Eliza Toleman, Mary Reese, Clara
Laird and Annie Moss each bore their testi-
monies.
	President C. F. Loveland thought the
time had been well taken up, had enjoyed 
the remarks of her brethren and sisters.
	Minutes were then read and accepted, and
meeting closed by singing. Benediction
by Carlos Loveland.
	A party was given in the evening to
celebrate the occasion, under the auspices
of the Relief Society.
	Your sister in the cause of truth,
		ALICE M. CARD, Sec. R. S.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE LAST LETTER.
’Tis evening; over the noise of battie,
Throgh high among the crags the sounds still
	rattle,
Spion Kop is taken, proud the English feel,
Though many tears are failing, where soldiers
	kneel
Over the prostrate form, of a comrade slain,
Who will hear the bugle call never again.
Deep groans from the wounded, lying in their
	gore,
Some in anguish crying, some their God implore.

The ambulance is waiting, carry them there,
Lift them so tenderly, ’tis a mother’s prayer;
Smooth the curling hair from foreheads damp and
	cold,
For the glazing eyes no morrow will behold,
Lying on a pallet, overwrought with pain,
’Mong the scenes of childhood, mem’ry plays
	again,
Mother is standing close by the open door,
With the radiant smile, the dear face always
	wore.

“Write, write,” cries the voice, growing more
	faint and weak,
“Tell her the loving words, I shall never speak;
Pray I, for forgivness—God’s blessings on her,
I loved her though I wounded—how my eyes blur!
On her breast I’m lying, soft she smooths my
	hair,
And I hear the music of her evening prayer;
What a drowsy feeling, now to rest I go,
Her kisses on my forehead, that thrill me so.

“I think when I read that sweet story of old.’
Yes these are the words: why blows the wind so
	cold ?
‘I wish that his hands had been placed on my
	head,’
Hers so softly I feel there, in Christ’s own stead.
List! I hear her singing, as the angels do,
The sound floating far away, where the skies are
	blue.
The dear old home seems heaven, peace every-
	where,
Father gently nodding, in his old arm chair.

“No, I’m never coming home, but she’ll come to
	me,
And tell her I will meet her by the Silver Sea.
O, how cold the river, and how dark the way,
And you look so strangely, and so far away.”
Now the letter is written, and all is o’er,
No sorrow nor anguish, will his heart know more;
Other mothers are weeping all o’er the land,
Moans of anguish are heard in each broken band,

Spion Kop is taken, vict’ry to the strong,
The Tugela unmoved, slowly glides along;
The ripples on its bosom, tell no sad tales,
But the wash on its banks sounds like human
	wails.
Yonder the mountains tall, stern silence keep,
High on their rugged sides, the wild flowers sleep;
The murm’ing winds tumultous voices are,
Echoing again the sounds that came from far.

The mountain was bought with blood and car-
	nage, too,
The dangers of the winding pass no one knew;
Inglorious on the morrow ’tis left again,
Retreating backward to the rolling plain,
And this is glory, this a battle won,
What wonder that in darkness was veiled the sun;
Or that chilly night winds, sigh a requium,
Or that stars are blinking above the battle’s din.

God hear the widow’s cry! chain the demon war,
Halt the sad procession of the fun’ral car;
Charge blood up to the nations who Thee despise,
And never heed Thy counsel, though good and
	wise.
Bare thy arm in fury, for the weak proclaim,
Trodden under foot of man, among the slain,
May death and wrong be vanquished, and tyrant’s
	power,
Soon the cry go forth, “’Tis my scourging hour.”
					LYDIA D. ALDER.
	Watford, Herdfordshire, England.


A BEAUTIFUL LIFE.
	A very enjoyable social gathering to
celebrate the birthday of one of Utah’s
famous pioneer women of ’47, was
given, at the residence of Mrs. Alonzo E.
Hyde, in honor of her mother, Sister Jane
Ballantyne Taylor, wife of the late Presi-
dent John Taylor, on her reaching the ad-


vanced age of eighty-five years. There
were assembled on that occasion several
women veterans in the Church, the oldest,
the wife of Apostle Orson Hyde, Sister
Mary Ann Price Hyde, who is but one
year younger than Sister Taylor; Sister
M. Isabella Horne, eighty-one years of
age and also a pioneer of ’47. Sister Zina
D. H Young, seventy-nine; Sister
Bathsheba V. Smith, who was seventy-
eight on the 3rd of May, and Sister
Jane S. Richards, seventy-seven. There
were other representative women present
among them Sisters Elmina S. Taylor,
Sarah Jane Cannon, Margaret Y. Taylor,
Matilda M. Barratt and others.
	An elaborate dinner was served, the
beautiful granddaughters of the aged lady
waiting upon the distinguished guests.
Covers were laid for twenty-three, the only
absentee was Sister Priscilla P. Jennings.
Sister Zina pronounced the blessing.
	During the afternoon Sister Maggie C.
Hull entertained the ladies with one of her
choice Scottish ballads. Sister Hull has
just enough of the Scotch accent to ac-
centuate her singing and remind one of
the Highlands and hills of heather.
Naturally the conversation was of a rem-
iniscent character.
	Sister Taylor’s life, if we may be per-
mitted the comparison, has been one
long, sweet poem, with a number of vari-
ations in style and form and here and there
a vein of sadness, though the lines and
rhythm are always inexpressibly tender
and true to upright principle. May her
pure life of integrity to truth, and loyalty to
the Gospel be a shining example to the
daughters of Zion and to all Israel. And
when her light goes out in this world, may
the angels of our Father’s presence lead
her gently through the pearly gates into
everlasting light and life.
						E. B. W.


[Column 1]
ADDRESS TO GENERAL ASSEMBLY D. R.
Madame President General and Ladies:
	It is almost impossible for one of an emo-
tional temperament to express in words
what the heart prompts on an occasion like
this. We are proud to honor the heroes of
today who fought at Santiago and stormed
San Juan—but our souls are large enough
not only to lay trophies at the feet of the
brave men of the present, but to remember
those that set them the example of main-
taining liberty and establishing indepen-
dence: the brave men who fought with the
immortal Washington, and made it possible
for the generations after them to enjoy the
fruits of their great victories; the seed they
planted, not only in the soil of America,
but in the hearts of their countrymen, their
children and children’s children.
	To perpetuate their valiant deeds in
bronze and marble is eminently proper and
fitting, a noble duty and a grand achieve-
ment; but we who live today can do even
more; we can help maintain the principles
for which the Revolutionary fathers bled
and died. It is more noble, more patriotic,
to live for a sublime principle, to attain an
exalted standard of excellence, worthy the
highest aspirations of the human heart,
than to build shrines to the memory of
Saints or heroes.
	When one is mindful of the fact that here
assembled are hundreds of the daughters of
heroes and heroines of the Revolution, and
looking backward retrospectively imagine

[Column 2]
the hosts on “the other side” whom these
represent here, recounting their heroism,
their deeds of valor, does it not thrill
every fibre of one’s being with the ardor of
that patriotism with which they who have
passed away were inspired? Shall we not
be zealous in this good cause, and see to it
that as far as it is in our power, our children
and the generations yet unborn shall per-
petuate the memory of the men who suf-
fered for liberty—that some of our contem-
poraries hold so lightly and make no effort
to <honor> their names.
	I fear the children of the present age are
taught more of the heroes of Greece and
Rome than of those of their own native
land. Our poets sing of the troubadours
and crusaders, and extol their deeds of
valor and of adventure, and neglect their
own forefathers, whose thrice precious in-
heritance of freedom they possess and for
which many of them render no fitting
tribute.
	Cannot some of our great American
writers be inspired to give us more songs of
America, such as shall thrill the masses of
the people with exalted ideas of true liberty?
	If we would maintain in our beloved
country the principles of justice and up-
rightness, then we must ourselves be living
exponents of these exalted ideals and attain-
ments, that the children may partake and
be imbued with the same spirit, that when
we go hence, those who follow after may
continue the good work that has already
made such marked progress in the last few
years, the Society of the Daughters of the
Revolution.
	All honor to the noble women who
founded it; whose hearts have assuredly
been turned to the fathers by a portion of
that spirit, spoken of in the Scriptures in the
last verse of the last chapter of the Old
Testament.
	And, in conclusion, my dear fellow-
laborers, above all “Let us love one
another.”
			EMMELINE B. WELLS.
	New York City, April 24, 1900.


COLONIAL DAMES OF AMERICA.
	The National Society of Colonial Dames
of America, at their recent annual meeting
in Washington, voted to send Mrs William
Reed, of Baltimore, to the Paris Exposition,
to represent the society at the unveiling of
the statue of Washington. A resolution
also was adopted suggesting that the
societies of the several states extend their
researches as far back of the Revolutionary
period as possible, and secure letters and
papers preserved in families relating to the
earlier Colonial times. Miss Wharton, of
Washington, read a paper showing that the
society had purchased a large number of
historical houses, principally in New Eng-
land, and had encouraged patriotism among
the school children throughout the country.
	Officers for the coming year were elected
as follows:
	Mrs. Howard Townsend, of New York,
president; Mrs. Gillespie, of Pennsylvania,
first vice-president; Mrs. Herbert Claybourn,
second vice-president; Mrs. Samuel Cole, of
Connecticut, third vice-president; Mrs.
William Reed, of Baltimore, secretary; Miss
Jackson, of Baltimore, assistant secretary;
Miss Elizabeth Nicholas, of Washington,
treasurer; Miss Emil Richter, of New
Hampshire, registrar; Miss Wharton, of
Philadelphia, historian.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah,
Terms: one copy one year. $1.00; one copy six months.
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.

	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 208 Templeton. South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, May 15, 1900.


VOLUME TWENTY-EIGHT.
	This number of the paper closes Volume
28 and our patrons and friends of the dear
little home paper are reminded that it is a
good time to renew subscriptions, or to
pay np whatever is due on the old and
help the new volume, now to be com-
menced, to begin on a sure basis financial-
ly. The women of Zion more especially
are greatly indebted to the EXPONENT for
aid in their undertakings in organizations
and industries and many other ways too
numerous to mention, and of which we be-
lieve they are well aware, but do not al-
ways remember that a paper needs financial
support, and when lacking in that, cannot
be promptly issued. Instead of feeling
that it is for want of the needful the sisters
think it is the fault of the management.
But the editor most solemnly assures them
to the contrary. There is no good reason
in these days of prosperity why the sisters
should not patronize their own paper. One
dollar a year; they would never feel it, it
does not amount to ten cents a month, nor
yet two cents a week; and yet the dear sis-
ters who do appreciate the paper often say
there are single articles published that are
worth more than one dollar to them. In
view of the real and positive benefits ac-
crueing to the women of Zion, we hope
and trust that the presidents of all branches
of the Relief Society everywhere will feel
it a duty and responsibility devolving upon
them, to see that the respective ward where
they preside is well canvassed and subscrip-
tions solicited now at the beginning of the
new volume twenty-nine.


BRIGHAM YOUNG’S BIRTHDAY.
	The ninety-ninth anniversary of Brigham
Young’s birthday is to be made a day of
rejoicing and elaborate ceremony, and it
is eminently fitting that it should be so,
that all the people of Utah and the ad-
joining country may remember this great,
good and wise man who builded not only
for his own people and followers but for
the world and generations yet to come;
who opened up the desert and cultivated
the land and colonized in the midst of this
intermountain, uninhabited region. On
every hand we see the fruits of the noble
pioneers of whom he was the chief leader,
hough there were many whose names
hould have prominence and be recalled in


connection with the settling of these now
beautiful and prosperous vales, Heber C;
Kimball, Wilford Woodruff, John Taylor
and others who cooperated with him in
making “the desert blossom as the rose.”
Generations may come and go but the
name of Brigham Young will never die
while these mountain fastnesses are in-
habited by the descendants of the people
who filled this “Happy Valley” with
homes of peace and plenty.
	The exercises of the day will commence
with a salute of forty-two guns by the
Veteran Artillery Association at 7 a. m.
The people will gather at the Bee Hive
house at 9 a. m., remaining there until
9.45, Held’s band will discourse sweet
music meantime.
	The monument of the great pioneer will
be the next place visited and will be dec-
orated then with flowers brought for the
purpose. The children of the city are
especially invited to do this, the Primary
Associations who always make a cusotm of
keeping in some festive fashion the first
day of June, will, it is ardently hoped,
come in full force having floral trophies, as
the fields, gardens and hills at the present
time abound with the beauties of nature.
	At 10 o’clock the program in the Taber-
nacle will commence and be rendered as
follows: Music, Held’s Military band.
Selection, Tabernacle choir. Invocation,
Hon Brigham Young. Selection, Taber-
nacle choir. Address, Governor Wells.
Music, Held’s Military band. Violin solo,
Morris S. Young. Address. Colonel David
McKenzie; Baritone solo, Horace S. En-
sign. Reading, Dr. Seymour B. Young.
Benediction, Hon Angus M. Cannon.
	Program at Saltair Beach which will be
given in the afternoon: Music, Christen-
sen’s Military band. Invocation, Dr.
George H. Brimhall. Solo, Miss Mary
Young. Address, Professor Joshua H.
Paul. Soprano solo (orchestra accom-
paniment) Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edwards.
Address, Hon. Thomas Fitch. Music,
Christensen’s band.
IN CHARACTER.
	Fancy dance, Miss La Blanche Snow.
Benediction, President W. J. Kerr.
	There will be a grand ball in the eve-
ning.
	Professor J. A. Anderson will be the ac-
companist in the musical features of the
program.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

OUR recent visit to the New England
hills, old scenes, associations, relatives,
and friends, will appear in the June num-
ber of the paper.

	The Primary Associations are to have a
Jubilee early in the month of June, which
is expected to. be quite a unique affair.
General-President Louie Felt and mem-
bers of her Board are making elaborate
preparatione and planning to have it repre-
sentative in every way of this association of
the children of Zion.

	All trains of the Oregon Short Line out
of Salt Lake City, start directly from this
city, and are consequently always on time.
You can depend upon them to the minute.
	This feature is the most satisfying one
in railway travel, and, in part, accounts
for the well deserved popularity of the
Short Line’s local passenger service.


GENERAL SOCIETY DAUGHTERS OF THE
REVOLUTION. 
		     NEW YORK CITY.

	The Annual Meetings of the General
Society of the Daughters of the Revolution,
held in New York City, Monday and
Tuesday, April 23rd and 24th, 1900, were
of an interesting character and well attended
by members from almost all parts of the
country, and the usual routine business of
such gatherings was transacted.
	A preliminary meeting was held jn the
Society’s headquarters, and a nominating
committee elected, to prepare a ticket, etc.
The public meetings convened in the same
building, situated on Fifth Avenue and
corner of 20th Street, a large and commo-
dious hall, handsomely decorated for the
occasion, with the stars and stripes taste-
fully draped and pictures of heroes and
heroines, etc. Each state was designated
by a banner with the name, and all dele-
gates were supplied with badges.
	The President General, Mrs. Henry
Sanger Snow occupied the chair. She is a
very charming woman and has completely
won the hearts of all the Daughters who
have been associated with her during her
term of office. Her address was very bril-
lian and concise, dealing with facts in a
very gentle and persuasive manner, and
was specially significant of the work in
hand.
	The society moves as smoothly as the
sun and his satellites toward one common
object Loyalty and patriotic effort are al-
ways the general aim. Everywhere in
local chapters and State societies the gener-
al work has gone on with unity, strength
and enthusiasm of purpose. We have come
together to transact the most important
business in our societies life—to elect the
officers who are to carry on the work of the
organization for the two coming years. In
the fulfillment of this duty we are to per-
mit nothing of local or personal prejudice
and jealousy to influence us, and we are to
accept with the fullest loyalty the expres-
sion of the general will, whatever our in-
dividual disappointment may be.
	The Recording Secretary General in a
very gracious and appropriate speech
made the presentation of a “Loving Cup,”
the gift of the Society at large, which Mrs.
Snow responded to in a very brief but affec-
tionate and particularly happy manner.
	Reports from other General Officers fol-
lowed this part of the exercises, most of
them very brief, relating to each one’s own
department of work. We noted the His- 
torian General mentioned her report from
the Utah Historian, who looked after her
domestic affairs, managed her home, was a
member of the Legislature and had a baby
four months old; this elicited considerable
applause.
	These reports extended into the afternoon
and after they were finished the election of
officers began. There was considerable dis-
cussion upon the floor, meantime tellers
were appointed. Several nominations
were made, but finally the president Gener-
al was elected, Miss Adeline W. Sterling,
First Vice-President of the recent adminis-
tration.
	Tuesday morning the delegates were,
early in their seats and the election began.
There were several nominees for Vice-
President, but when it came to the Record-
ing Secretary General, eighteen candidates
were nominated before it was possible , to
get one to accept the office, as it is well


[Column 1]
known it is one of the most arduous posi-
tions in any organization. The Registrar
was re-elected by acclamation. She had
been a very efficient officer and was appar- 
ently a great favorite.
	The officers elected were: President
General, Miss Adeline W. Sterling, N. J.;
First Vice-President General, Mrs. Nathan-
iel S. Heap, Penn.; Second Vice-President-
General, Mrs. Mary A. Chapman, Mass;
Recording Secretary-General, Mrs. Carlton
M. Moody, Penn.; Corresponding Secretary-
General, Mrs. George B. Wallis, Jr., N. Y.,
Treasurer-General, Mrs. Joseph J. Casey,
N. Y.; Historian-General, Mrs. J. R.
Ditmars, N. J.; Librarian-General, Mrs.
Alexander M. Ferris, Mass.
BOARD OF MANAGERS.
	Mrs. James B. Grant, Colorado; Mrs. Henry
Sanger Snow, L. I.; Mrs George F. Dan-
els, Mass.; Mrs. David C. Carr, N. Y.;
Mrs. George Hodges, N. J.; Miss Tar-
quinia L. Voss, Indiana; Mrs. Andrew W.
Bray, N. J.
	The time was so fully occupied with the
election that the reports from the several
states had to be read during the intervals
when the tellers were out counting votes.
Massachusetts came in with the largest
number of votes, being over seventy, and
naturally the report was excellent as re-
garded numbers and work, for besides a
State Society, Massachusetts has thirty-two
chapters, and they have historical ground
and many things in their favor, which those
at a remote distance do not enjoy. New
York ranks next in membership and has a
State society and sixteen chapters and have
been successful in many ways. New Jer-
sey and Pennsylvania come next in im- 
portance in the Society D. R’s. Utah,
though the youngest of the Daughters, pre-
sented a report that was specially well re-
ceived and was the only one that extended
an invitation to the General Society to come
and hold an Annual Meeting here sometime
in the near future. Nineteen States in all
were represented, most of the reports were
written and all were read by the Regent of
the State except Utah, which was read by
the delegate, Miss Snow, and two or three
reports that came by mail and were read
by the secretary.
	The election having been decided and the
announcements made, the Amendments to
the Constitution that had been sent out
previously were carefully considered,
some of them causing animated discussion,
and finally after a word of prayer and the
singing of “America,” the Convention ad-
journed after six p m., to meet in Brooklyn,
Long Island, in April, 1901.
D. R. ENTERTAINMENTS.
	Wednesday morning, April 25, at eleven
o’clock, the Daughters of the Revolution
were invited to be present at the unveiling
of a Historical Tablet to be given by the
New York State Society to the famous 
Old Dutch Reformed Collegiate Church, of
that city, Fifth Avenue and Forty-Eighth
Street. 
	The church is quite a handsome one in
its appointments and on this occasion there 
were perhaps two hundred of the D. R.
members assembled to witness the cere-
monies. The music was excellent, and the
tablet which was inscribed “In Memory of
the Officers, Soldiers and Sailors who felt in
the War of the Revolution,” was unveiled
by Miss Mary Gage Lambert of Rowley,
Mass., the youngest child of Jonathan

[Column 2]
Lambert, who when, sixteen years old,
took part in the battle of Bunker Hill.
Miss Lambert is now past eighty years of
age.
	The presentation address was made by
Mrs. Charles F. Roe, Regent of the New
York State D. R., and the wife of Major
General Roe. The tablet was received by
the minister of the Church, Rev. Mr. McKay,
who assured the ladies that it should be
sacredly kept in the archives of the Church.
	During his acknowledgement of the gift
he spoke of the denomination to which this
Church belongs, being the oldest in New
York, it having been founded in 1629 by
the Dutch settlers at Manhattan, and was
afterwards used for barracks in the time of
the Revolution. The present building is
erected on the same site as the original
church; he also stated that the bell which
now rings to call the people together is the
one hidden away in war time, and found by
the sexton when the war was over, and
used by the same sexton many years after-
wards.
	At one o’clock of the same day Mrs.
Henry Sanger Snow, the retiring President-
General of the General Society, gave an
elaborate breakfast at the Savoy Hotel to
both the retiring and incoming officers of
the D. R., and the Regents of the several
States represented at the Convention. The
banqueting hall was handsomely decorated,
the stars and stripes, as also the Society
colors, blue and buff, being effectively
used. The round table which seated fifty
guests was dazzlingly magnificent beyond
description. In the centre was an em-
bankment of green, literally piled with yel-
low lilies and blue corn flowers, and in
regular order around the circle were smaller
ones in circle and semicircle; elegant vases
of roses and carnations added to the artistic
decorations, and at each place a pretty silk
flag stood waving; but the bright appear-
ance of the brilliant women who surrounded
this unique “round table” was the most
pleasing picture of all, and one could not
help wondering why therewas not a photog-
rapher at hand, for it certainly would
have been a good opportunity, and, of
course, each guest would have purchased
a picture.
	During the breakfast Mrs. Snow, in a very
sweet and gracious manner, rose, and while
lifting the “Loving Cup,” which had been
previously brought in, turned to the new
President-General, Miss Sterling, saluting
her first, and then bowing to all seated at
the table, drank a toast to the assembled
guests in a few choice words of loving
tenderness, mentioning the fact that there
were represented nineteen states. The new
President-General also toasted her pre-
decessor in office and then the cup went
round, all the ladies tasting the old Moselle
wine from the new “Loving Cup.” After-
wards handsome little ornamental  favors
were given each guest, that were designated
by the ladies “Our little Juniors.”
	The breakfast was a perfect success, cer-
tainly these social functions bring women in
public life closer together in conversation
and acquaintance than is possible in Con-
gresses and Conventions.
	At three p. m. of the same afternoon the
New York State Society gave a reception to
the D. R. from all parts of the country in
the elegant parlors of the Waldorf-Astoria.
Mrs. Roe, State Regent, and her two
“Vices,” received from three to six p. m.,
in the most cordial and gracious manner;
about three hundred “Daughters” attended.

[Column 3]
	It is not possible to describe the dresses
(as the writer has been asked to do on
several occasions), but suffice to say, there
were many elderly daughters who were
quite as elaborately and as shiningly ar-
rayed, in costly apparel, wearing diamonds,
pearls and precious jewels, as the younger
portion of the D. R’s. There were also
others plainly dressed in simple costumes,
but no sort of distinction was apparent 
The elaborately dressed lady conversed with
those in plain attire and a general feeling
of good fellowship prevailed. The music
was of the highest order of excellence and
the delicate and delicious refreshments
were served in the daintiest style.
	Thursday morning two hundred or more
of the D. R.’s started on a trip up the Hud-
son by the West Shore R. R. to West Point.
All arrangements had been made before-
hand by a committee of New York State
and the General Society D. R., Mrs. Charles
W. Dayton, chairman. All the places of
interest were thrown open to the visitors,
the library and museum were the most at-
tractive places. After luncheon many of
the ladies were driven to interesting points
outside the college grounds. Col. Hein,
Commandant of Cadets, caused an exhibi-
tion of field artillery to be given in honor of
the ladies, and later on there was a grand
review of the corps of cadets. The day
was fine and the opportunity given the
ladies to visit and become acquainted with
each other was a source of pleasure and
gratification, as these busy women living
long distances apart, have many interests in
common, and to exchange ideas and com-
pare, is edifying and educational.
	Returning to New York on the evening
train, and in the boat when crossing the
Bay, there was opportunity for parting
messages and fervent farewells. The
writer had a most interesting conversation
with Miss Hunt, of Boston, on the return
trip. Miss M. Mabelle Snow, delegate 
from the Utah D. R., and Miss Abbie
Wells, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Junius F.
Wells, (a Salt Lake girl now sojourning in
New York,) were the youngest members of
the party.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


GENERAL CONFERENCE RELIEF SOCIETY.

	Afternoon session, April 5, 1900, Presi-
dent Zina D. H. Young presiding. Meet-
ing opened  by singing the hymn
“Glorious things are sung of Zion,'
by the Young Ladies’ choir of the 20th
ward. Prayer by President Hammond, of
San Juan Stake. Singing, solo by Miss
Judith Anderson, “Flee as a Bird to to the
Mountain,” accompanied by Miss Lizzie
Thomas.
	The first speaker was Pres. M. A. Hakes
Maricopa Stake, she reported the society
throughout in good condition and the sis-
ters full of good works. “We live a long
way from headquarters, we have to travel
over two thousand miles to come to Con-
ference. In our place we have only one
hundred and thirty white people and six
hundred Lamanites. The government has
established a school for them and erected a
fine building. We have had one new
society organized since our last report, in
Pine Gila Co. We have many young
women who have joined our society. We
have to seal up our wheat in tin cans in
order to keep it. 
	Counselor Agnes Cutler, Jordan Stake,
eported the recent organization of that


[Column 1]
Stake and spoke of the good desires of the
officers that had been chosen.
President Annie U. Larson, Emery
Stake, made an excellent report. Said
they had made an effort in the society
to raise silk and encouraged the sisters to pay
tithing that the blessings promised might
follow.
President Kate L. Paxman, Juab Stake,
referred to President Mary Pitchforth’s
having resigned on account of her delicate
health, and yet they wanted to enjoy her
counsel and her presence in the meetings.
Intended to persevere in her duties in the
position she had been called to fill.
Miss Lillie Pye rendered a solo, “I have
Seen the Beautiful City.”
President Sarah Jenne Cannon: “Dear
sisters, I am thankful to be here today.
The prophet Joseph builded better than he
knew when he organized this society with
nineteen members and now it numbers
thirty thousand. We are doing a great
work, the world are also doing a genealogi-
cal work and do not know why. We are
laboring intelligently, each branch of the
Relief Society should be visited and in-
structed. We should reach the far away
branches, they are the ones who need it
most. We should patronize the Exponent
and have it in every society, and in every
family, if possible. I am very thankful to
the dear young girls who have been sing-
ing for us, and hope they will be blest.
We need the young women in our society,
there is such a big field to work in. We
should all do our share, and not depend on
our neighbors but on ourselves.”
President Emily G. Cluff, Josepa, re-
ported the Sandwich Island settlement.
Said they would like to plant some grain
this year and raise some wheat to store up.
Last year they planted a melon patch and
realized one hundred dollars from their
melons.
Sister Margaret Moody Clift, of St.
George, spoke earnestly of the society in
that Stake, of the large number of branches
and the wheat stored and the excellent
granary owned by the sisters.
One of the late President Layton’s daugh-
ters, Selina L. Phillips, spoke feelingly of
the work and of the dear faces of the sisters
in the conference she remembered when a
child. The leading sisters from head-
quarters had never visited St. Joseph Stake,
she had lived there thirteen years and
would like to see some of them come there;
it would be a great pleasure to the sisters
who need instruction and counsel.
Sister Julina L. Smith spoke upon the or
ganization of the Relief Society by the
Prophet Joseph, and that he gave the first
money towards creating a fund, five dollars.
Others present gave something, the Prophet
also gave a house and lot, and had the
house repaired so it might be used for the
poor who were homeless. She also men-
tioned the ten cent donation expected from
all the Stakes of Zion, and added that she
believed it would be a blessing, as the lead-
ing sisters could then visit the different
Stakes and comfort those who needed ad-
vice and encouragement. Spoke of how
the Lord sustained the aged sisters who
had labored so faithfully for Zion. 
President Zina D. H. Young: “We
need just about a week to bless and help
our sisters in these meetings. We are en-
gaged in the great work of salvation. The
mothers when bearing their children should
seek to have them infused with love and
the Holy Spirit. We want the blessing of

[Column 2]
God with us, He is just as willing to hear
the prayers of the sisters as the brethren.
My prayers ascend for you all in the night
time. Never allow yourselves to speak
against the priesthood of God, those who do
cannot prosper, they will fall away or turn
aside, I have seen it come to pass many
times in the last sixty-five years. Let us
sanctify our bodies, make them fit temples
for the Holy Ghost to dwell in, that we
may enjoy the fulness of all things the
Lord has to bestow upon the faithful. May
we each go home from here with the good
spirit we have found here and prove faithful
unto the end, and until we shall see the
face of our Father in heaven.
Counselor Mary P. Young, Granite
Stake, spoke of the way in which the
officers were visiting in that new Stake
from place to place, said she already began
to feel acquainted with the people. Alluded
to the Prophet Joseph saying the society
was to help put down iniquity and correct
the morals of society. Prayed the
Lord would inspire the younger women to
come forward and help in this work.
Counselor A. L. Cox, of Sanpete Stake,
said they were striving to live their reli-
gion. Felt it was good to keep the 17th
of March and pay the ten cent donation, it
was a historic day and should be ob-
served, it is desirable to review the past
labors of the society. She always urged
the sisters to take the Exponent, and after
what had been said today she hoped there
would be an increased subscription. “Last
year there was a disadvantage in saving
wheat, but we hope to do more this year.
The Lord has greatly blessed us in our
labors and we have a very good president in
Sister Mary Ann Hyde, and she has been
appreciated.
E. B. WELLS Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ANNIVERSARY MEETING AND DEDICA-
TION.
	The members of the Freedonia Relief
Society met on the 17th of March to cele-
brate the fifty-third anniversary of the first
organization of the Relief Society and to
dedicate the hall which they have just
finished for the use of the Freedonia Relief
Society.
	Services commenced at 12 noon, Bishop
D. B Stewart presiding. Meeeting opened
by the choir singing, “Come dearest Ford
descend and dwell.” Dedicatory prayer by
Bishop D. R. Stewart. Singing, “This
house we dedicate to Thee.” Opening
remarks by Bishop A. A. W. Brown, sub-
ject, the benefit the Relief Society is and
can be List of amounts donated was
then read by Bishop D. R. Stewart. Presi-
dent Thomas Chamberlain, of the Kanab
Stake, then offered the dedicatory prayer.
Singing, “The star of victory.” Remarks
were made by Second Counselor Elizabeth
Pugh, of the Stake presidency.
	Speeches were then in order by the
visiting sisters. President Chamberlain
made some excellent remarks. Singing,
“O, be joyful in the Lord.” Benediction
by A. W. Judd.
	Our society was organized February 27,
1893, with fifteen members. They were
Emma S. Brown, president; Rose Cooper,
first counselor; Caroline Foremaster,
second counselor; Frances Crosby, secre-
tary and treasurer, The sisters have been
greatly blessed and our members increased
to thirty-four, members all alive to their
duties.


Since the first organization Sister Cooper
has moved away, also Sister Crosby. Sis-
ter Bethuna Hart has been put in Sister
Cooper’s place, and Sister Gedska Henrie
in Sister Crosby’s, Eva Hart, treasurer.
	I thought a few lines from this out of
the way place would be of interest and
encourage others. Where there is unity
there is strength. Those that help them-
selves, the Lord will help.
						E. S.


R. S. REPORTS
CASTLE DALE.
	March 17, was a day of great rejoicing
to the sisters of Castle Dale, as we had the
pleasure of having with us Professor
B. Cluff, of the B. Y. Academy, Stake
President Miller and Bishop Jensen of our
ward. Professor Cluff gave some excel-
lent instructions in regard to teaching
children and duties devolving upon the
sisters in general. President Miller spoke
very encouragingly to the sisters of the
Relief Society. Bishop Jensen also made
a few good remarks.
	This being the annual day a short program
was prepared and rendered on this occasion.
After the program refreshments were
served. Everybody felt highly en-
couraged and went home rejoicing.
	Castle Dale Relief Society is in good
condition and the sisters enjoy the com-
panionship of the WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
	Yours truly,
		KAROLINE A. LARSEN, Pres.
		KATHINKA ANDERSON, Sec.
REORGANIZATION OF RELIEF SOCIETY.
	Hearing from President Virginia F.
Major that she was going to give in her
resignation at the meeting to be held on
Thursday, May 3, I took the morning train
for that place, having a strong desire to be
present at the meeting. The cause of her
resignation was that her husband and fam-
ily were about to move to Thatcher, Arizona.
	Many and sincere were the good wishes
expressed, that they might be blest and
prospered in building up for themselves a
new home. My heart was rendered sad
at thought of her going from our Stake, for
I had truly learned to love her sweet and
congenial spirit, and had ever found her
faithful and energetic in the discharge of
every known duty, leaving the affairs of the
society in good condition.
	The bishopric of the ward were present
at the meeting, each one of them speaking
in the highest terms of praise and com-
mendation of the retiring president and her
family.
	Sister Majors said she would like the
privilege of seeing the next presiding
officer elected. So Bishop Layton put be-
fore the meeting the name of Sister Emma
Corbridge as president of the society. She
was unanimously sustained in that position.
She selected as her counselors Sister Mary
Ann Egbert and Sister Rose W. Layton,
who were also unanimously sustained.
	After remarks by the newly elected
officers, they were blest and set apart under
the hands of the Bishop and his counselors.
	Sister Olive S. Corbridge is their very
able secretary, so that I feel satisfied that
the society of West Layton Ward in the
Davis Stake of Zion is still in the best
of working order. And may the blessings
of union, love and prosperity attend them,


[Column 1]
and not only them, but all who are engaged
in Relief Society work. 
SUSAN GRANT, Stake President.

	STERLING, ALBERTA, CANADA.

	On Saturday, March 17, the ladies of the
Sterling Relief Society, under the able super–
vision of the president, Hannah M. Russel,
gave a most delightful banquet to the mem–
bers of the ward.
	The people assembled at eleven o'clock
and the following progrm was carried out:
	Congregational singing, "Joseph Smith's
First Prayer." Prayer, Brother Samuel
Fawcett. Singing, "O, my Father."
Report of the first Relief Society meeting held
in Sterling and report of the first Relief
Society meeting of the organization, Sister
Zilla Grant.
	Remarks, Sister Hannah Russel.
	Remarks by Bishop Theodore Brandly.
	Singing, "Come, come ye Saints."
	At 12 o'clock the older members of the
ward, numbering about eighty, were seated
at the tables which were spread with a 
sumptuous feast. Bishop Brandley offered
thanks. When the older ones had finished
the young people sat down and were feasted
to their heart's content. During this time
the older members indulged in social con-
versation.
	After a general clearing up there was
another song, "Now let us rejoice."
	Sketch of the life of Eliza R. Snow,
Mary E. Hardy. Song, James Kirk.
	Dancing was then begun, during which
the following exercises were rendered:
	Song, Mr. and Mrs. Charles Tillock.
Song, Mrs. Augusta Larsen. Remarks,
Brother F. D. Grant.
	At 6 o'clock there was an intermission
during which refreshments were passed. A
large ornamented fruit cake was cut, and
each one present was treated to a piece.
	At seven dancing again commenced and
during the evening the following program
was carried out:
	Song, A. M. Faddis.
	Henry Schutt was called upon for a song,
but being no singer, Brother Schutt, assisted
by those present, played a new game, called
"Sterling."
	Song, Misses and Messrs. Clark.
	Benediction by William B. Hardy.
	All expressed themselves as having passed
a delightful day, and much praise is due
the members of the Relief Society and
those who assisted.
							E. V. H.
	NOTTINGHAM, ENGLAND.
	The sisters of Nottingham met on
Monday evening, March 19. at the home of
President A. M. Henson, to celebrate the
anniversary of the Relief Society. Several
of the Elders from Utah were present, also
local Elders.
	Meeting commenced at 8 p. m. by sing-
ing "How firm a foundation." Prayer was
offered by President Geo. Ruff. Continued
with singing, "O, my Father." The roll
was then called.
	Sister Henson said we all knew the rea-
son for meeting together this evening, and
hoped all would respond to the call made
upon them, and by so doing we would have
the Holy Spirit in our midst.
	Elder L. Sanford first addressed the
meeting. Said he felt it an honor to have
the privilege of attending Relief Soclety 
meetings, as it was a noble work, and the
Lord would bless and prosper the sisters if
they continued in well doing.

[Column 2]
	Sister Edith Cable then favored us with
the song, "Time may Steal the Roses."
	Sister Polly Simons gave a recitation,
"She Is Dead." Sister Bessie Cable also
favored us with a song entitled "Sing Me
an English Song."
	Elder C. F. Campbell then addressed the
meeting for a short time. Said he could
see the good the sisters were doing, and
while not missionaries from a far-off land,
were doing quite as good a work among
the poor and needy.
	Brother H. Taylor and Sister L. Taylor
favored us with a duet, "She Wore a
Wreath of Roses," Sister Lucy Green then
gave a reading, "A Marvelous Healing,"
and Sister A. M. Henson favored us with
the song, "Belle Mahone's Reply."
	Sister E. Taylor gave a short speech and
hoped always to remain firm and steadfast
in the cause of truth.
Brother Henson then sang, "Under a
Spreading Chestnut Tree," after which
Counselor H. Keeling spoke a short time.
Said she knew the work in which we were
engaged was the work of God, and hoped
to always remain faithful to the same.
	Elder Richards was then asked to address
the Saints. He said it was the first time he
had the privilege of attending a Relief
Society meeting, and could see they were
engaged in a good, honorable work, and
hoped the Lord would continue to bless
them and pour down at all times His Holy
Spirit, that they might indeed be blest.
	An interval of about half an hour was
then allowed for refreshments, which all
heartily enjoyed.
	President Geo. Ruff then spoke to us.
Said he remembered the last time we met
to celebrate the same occasion, the enjoy-
able time we had, that it would be impos-
sible to forget the kindness he had received
at the hands of the sisters. He was al-
ways pleased at the unity that existed in
the Relief Society and hoped we would re-
main united, for great things can be accom-
plished when a band of sisters were united.
Hoped the Lord would continue to bless us
and be with us in all our undertakings.
	The meeting was then closed by singing
the hymn, "From all that dwell below the
skies. Benediction by Elder C. F. Camp-
bell.
	The report of the Relief Society since last
March is as follows: Members enrolled,
eighteen; average attendance, seven; meet-
ings held, twenty-five; houses visited by
the teachers, thirty; money paid into the
relief fund, £2 5s 3d; paid to the sick and
poor, £2, .0s 2 1/2d.
					EDITH CABLE, SEC.

			OFFICERS.

	Sister Annie M. Henson, president; Sister
Elizabeth Cable, first counselor; Sister Har-
riet Keeling, second counselor; Lucy Green,
treasurer; teachers in No. 1 district, Sisters
Bessie and Edith Cable; No. 2 district, Sis-
ters E. Taylor and Lucy Green.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Sister Mary Henrietta Meecham Batty was born
April 10, 1848, near Kanesville, Iowa, and died in
Wallsburg, Wasatch Co., Utah, Dec. 21. 1899.
She was the daughter of Ephraim and Patty D.
Meecham.
	Whereas, Our Eternal Father, in His infinite
wisdom, has seen fit to call from this stage of ac-
tion, our beloved president, Mary H. Batty, be it
	Resolved, That as members of the Relief Society


we will strive to follow her good examples and
teachings.
	Resolved, That we remember that we have
never heard her speak evil of any one, but always
had a sympathetic, kind word for all.
	Resolved, That we remember through all her
sufferings she was never known to complain, but
bore her sickness with fortitude and patience and
with gratitude to all who lent a hand for her com-
fort. She died as she had lived, a faithful sister,
a noble mother and a true, loving friend to all.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
sent to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publication, one
be put on the records of the Wallsburg Relief
Society and one be given to the sorrowing family,
to whom we would say be comforted, for with
mother all is well.
	She has left this world of sorrow,
		To join the Saints above,
	It was rest to her weary heart,
		She now dwells in peace and love.
					ESTHER DABLING,
					JENNIE ALBRED,
					ALICE COOK,
							    Committee.
SISTER ROSINA HILLIER NOALL.
	Sister Rosina Hillier Noall was born at Mont-
pelier, Idaho, March, 1872.
	She was the daughter of Leo C. and Annie
Hillier. The deceased was an accomplished young
lady and filled many important positions in the
Bear Lake Stake, being an aid in the Primary
Association of the Stake, Church organist and
president of the Y. L. M. I. A. in the ward in
which she resided. By profession she was a
school teacher, in which calling she was very suc-
cessful.
	In April, 1899, Sister Hillier was married to
Matthew Noall, who by death had been bereaved
of his former wife. Through her loving disposi-
tion she endeared herseif to the hearts of the little
ones.
	Sister Noall departed this life March 23, 1900.
She lived and died a faithful Latter-day Saint and
leaves a husband, infant daughter and a host of
relatives and friends to mourn her loss.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father in His infinite
wisdom has deemed it best to call unto Himself our
beloved sister, and
	Whereas, She proved he[-]self an efficient worker
as aid in the Primary Association of the Bear
Lake Stake until her recent removal to Salt Lake
City, and was one whose kindness and generosity
of spirit brought sunshine to many hearts.
	Resolved, That we realize that God calls from
our midst our esteemed associates and friends; that
He doeth all things for the best and we must be-
resigned to His holy will.
	Resolved, That we, her co-laborers, extend to
her family our heartfelt sympathy in their bereave-
ment.
			ANNIE LAKER, President.
			ELIZA DALRYMPLE 1st Counselor.
			MARY J. RICH, 2nd Counselor.


ONEIDA STAKE CONFERENCE.
	The Relief Society Conference of Oneida
Stake, held April 19, 1900, in the Preston
meeting house, President Elizabeth Fox
presiding, commenced by singing “We
thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.” Prayer 
by President George C. Parkinson. Sing-
ing, “O, say what is truth.”
	Officers present on the stand were Presi-
dent Elizabeth Fox, Counselors Mary
Hawks and Delilah E. Dudley; of the
General officers, Zina D. H. Young, and
Jane S. Richards; Zina Young Card and
Emily S. Richards, also President Geo. C.
Parkinson and counselors, of the Oneida
Stake.
	President Elizabeth Fox was gratified to
see so many present also wished to give
all the time possible to our visiting sisters.
	Roll called, showing eleven wards repre-
sented out of fourteen.
	Annie Challis, of Franklin; Phebe
McNeil, of Fairview; Elizabeth Clark, of
Weston and Sarah Callan, of Dayton, re-


[Column 1]
ported their respective wards as diligent
and willing to respond to every call.
	Sister Dora Geddes then beautifully
rendered the hymn, “I know that my
Redeemer lives.”
	Sister Zina Y. Card read, by request of
President Zina D. H. Young, a piece from
the EXPONENT, extracts from the minutes
of the first organization by Joseph Smith
the Prophet.
	President Zina D. H. Young felt weak.
These meetings brought to her mind the
days and sayings of the Prophet
Joseph when he turned the key of knowl-
edge for woman. “Plant good ideas into
the minds of the children, they notice our
example, they are glorious spirits the Lord
has entrusted to our care.” She had al-
ways listened attentively when the prophet
addressed the Saints. She had no hard
feelings against anybody. Prayed the Lord
to bless the land of Missouri. The day
will come when we will occupy it again.
“May the Lord help us to love each other.”
	President Jane S. Richards felt she could
say nothing this morning, wanted to be
directed by the right spirit. We should
treasure up all we have heard from Aunt
Zina. She was not familiar with the
Prophet, but had heard him address the
Saints many times. She said nothing but
sickness would keep her from her meetings.
Felt thankful for being permitted to belong
to the first Relief Society. She wished to
conform to every true principle and be
willing whenever called upon. Said we
have to attend to temporal as well as spirit-
ual duties. “May the Lord direct you in
all things.”
	President George C. Parkinson made a
few remarks. Could feel a beautiful in-
fluence here today, did not wish to take
from our minds what we had heard.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m. Sing-
ing, ‘Praise to the man who communed
with Jehovah.” Benediction, S. W. Hale.
	2 p. m. The choir sang “Lord make
Thy name known.” Prayer by Joseph
Geddes. Singing, “Prayer is the soul’s
sincere desire.”
	The financial and statistical report of the
Stake was read and approved; also the
treasurer’s report accepted.
	Julia Roper, of Preston; L. B. Benson, of
Whitney; Ingred Graham, of Mink Creek
reported their wards as active, working
satisfactorily in helping every good cause.
	Sister Emily S. Richards remembered the
advice of her mother, to be obedient to the
priesthood, and said love one another, do
not speak evil of any one. Train our chil-
dren to respect their parents, educate our
daughters that they may be prepared to do
the work the Lord intends them to do.
We should strive to be loyal to all.
	Singing, by Sister Cutler, of Preston.
	Counselor D. E. Dudley was thankful to
meet with our aged sisters who are with us
today. Considered it a privilege to hear
their instructions and testified of the truth
of their remarks.
	President Elizabeth Fox felt thankful in
hearing our sisters who are visiting with

[Column 2]
us. “I trust we may remember their good
counsel, that it may be a benefit to us.
Gave a brief report of the Stake, had visited
all the wards during the year with the ex-
ception of Baker City, in Oregon, and the
newly organized branch at Swan Lake.
Was well pleased with the reports in hear-
ing of granaries and meetiug houses being
put up for the benefit of these organizations.
Having labored for many years in the Re-
lief Society this Stake, owing to the
condition of her health she wished to be
released from the responsibilities of the
work, if all were willing. “May the
blessings of God be with us all.”
	President George C. Parkinson gave an
account of the labors of Sister Fox in con-
nection with him, in their travels through
the Stake. Felt she had endeared herself
to the sisters in her visits among them, but
she can continue her labors among them, as
she would be sustained as an honorary
president.
	It was then proposed that Sister Fox be
allowed to retire from the hard work of the
presidency. A few hands reluctantly went
up.
	Sister Jane S. Richards further explain-
ing said: “It is not because Sister Fox is
tired of the work, but because her bodily
health will not permit.” She wished to be
released on that account. Was pleased to
see the affection shown to Sister Fox.
	President G. C. Parkinson gave a vote of
thanks to Sister Fox and her aids.
	Sister L. B. Benson was then chosen to
succeed Sister Fox as President of the
Oneida Stake.
	Sister Benson said she realized that obe-
dience was the first law of heaven. Was
willing to do what was required of her.
	The vote was unanimous.
	Zina Y. Card explained the routine of
Relief Society work. Said to be careful in
keeping our records properly.
	President Zina D. H. Young spoke a few
words in tongues, interpretation by Zina Y.
Card.
	Sister Fox felt to be obedient to those
placed over us, was thankful for the good
will expressed by her sisters.
	President Jane S. Richards mentioned our
observing the 17th of March and the 10ct.
fund, it would be proper to forward the
means together and get your proper credit
and receipt. Was delighted to have the
brethren with us and thankful for their
presence. Asked God’s blessings on all.
	Sister Fox exhorted all to do their whole
duty.
	Singing, “The Spirit of God like a fire is
burning.” Benediction by S. H. Hale.
				ANNIE HATCH, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
90% OF AMERICAN WOMEN
wash dishes three times each day. If you are one
of these, wear a pair of “Goodyear” Rubber
Gloves and always have soft, white hands. Sent
by mail postpaid, on receipt of $1.59 Agents
wanted. Address, M. O. Dept.,
M. F. Reese Supply Co., Setauket, N. Y.

R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.,
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
	as much as possible for your money.	TRY US.

[Column 2]
[logo of a shield]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD’S PICTORIAL LINE.

[to the right of the logo]
THE PEOPLE’S FAVORITE.

			Leave Salt Lake City
No. 6	The “Fast Mail” for Chicago, St. Paul, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and
		Park City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 00 a.m.
No. 2	The “Overland Limited” for Chicago, St. 
		Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
		Denver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 45 a.m.
No. 4	The “Atlantic Express” for Chicago, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver . . . . 6 40 p.m.

			Arrive Salt Lake City.
No. 5	The “Fast Mall” from Chicago, St. Louis,
		Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and Park
		City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 00 p.m.
No. 1	The “Overland Limited” from Chicago, St. 
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver. . . . . 3 00 p.m.
No. 3	The “Pacific Express” from Chicago, St.
		Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
		Denver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 30 p.m.

CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 Main St.		Telephone 665.
						H. M. CLAY, General Agent.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
		LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

The Most Convenient Local Train Service
in the State is given by the . . . . . .
OREGON SHORT LINE
RAILROAD.
FIVE Fast Daily Trains Each Way between
	Salt Lake City and Ogden . . . . . .

See that your tickets read via the
	“SHORT LINE”
		And Get the best.

CITY TICKET OFFICE for tickets to all points, 100 West
	Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.
S. W. ECCLES,			D. E. BURLEY,
	Gen’l Tfc. Mgr.				G. P. & T. A

