
Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation

				Vol. 30	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE, 1901.	No. 1


CONTENTS.
Prominent Women Visitors.............The Editor	1
Autobiography of Sarah B. Layton.................	1
Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting, J. S. Woolley	2
A Tribute of Respect to the Latter-day Saints–
	.........................................Mary F. Kelley	3
An Item of History..........Bathsheba W. Smith	3
Reorganization Nineteenth Ward.......H. B. H.	3
San Francisco Relief Society...Mina A. Towne	3
Supplementary....................................E. B. W.	5
A Faithful Woman....................Euphrasia Day	6
Around Pacatello Stake.........Martha Scadden	6
Obituary..........................................................	6
R. S. Reports...................................................	7
Mrs. F. S. Richards..............................E. B. W.	7
Domestic Life and the Professions.E. R. Shipp	7
EDITORIAL—Important Notice.....................	4
	The New Volume.....................................	4
	One Hundred Years..................................	4
	Editorial Notes.........................................	4
POETRY—What of the Hour....Susa. Y. Gates	1


WHAT OF THE HOUR!

Watchman, what of the Hour?
War with his lusty lungs,
Cries aloud in ten thousand tongues,
Greed in a palace still holds sway
While poverty weeps in her hut today.
Dark and drear is the outer gloom,
But the hills of the East with promise bloom.

Watchman, what of the Hour? 
Art with a troubled air
Is sketching here and singing there,
Science bold, in spite of the dark,
On even religion has set his mark.

Watchman, what of the Hour ?
Love, with a hundred wiles
Hath dropped his standard, cheapened his
	smiles,
Manly virtue is a thing to find,
While womanly patience seems left behind,
Dark and drear is the outer gloom,
Yet the hills of the East with promise bloom.

Watchman, what of the Hour?
Faith with her gentle grace
Hath met with Science face to face.
Bigotry pipes, they dance to his call,
But truth waits ashamed in the outer hall,
O, dark and drear is the outer gloom,
But the hills of Zion with promise bloom.

Watchman, what of the Hour?
Fear with a terrible shout
Hath slain Restraint and let men out,
But Hope with grace and manner mild,
Hath set in their midst an Innocent Child.
Charity bends with her generous gifts,
O'er sickness and sorrow her cross she lifts.

Watchman, what of the Hour?
War hath a myriad stings
But Mercy stoops low with healing wings.
Both Science and Art will some day wed,
And religion will bless their marriage bed. 
If dark and drear be the outer gloom,
Lo, the hills of Truth with promise bloom,
	The watchmen sing
	Together shall they sing!
For they shall see eye to eye, when they bring
	again Zion!
				SUSA YOUNG GATES.


[Column 1]
PROMINENT WOMEN VISITORS.
	Mrs. Mary Urquhart Lee, who in Salt
Lake City gave lessons in Parliamentary
Law and the art of expression, had an
opportunity not long since to speak before
the California Club in San Francisco and
gave her opinion of the “Economical and
Industrial Condition of Women in Utah.”
We are very grateful to Mrs. Lee and glad
that she had the courage to speak in a large
gathering of women of the world, the
fashionable society of the metropolis. The
newspapers reported Mrs. Lee thus: “She

[Column 2]
emphasized their immense purposefulness
and their ability to do mental as well as
physical drudgery. She attributed their
attainments to the religious influence which
caused them to do much public speaking,
to the fact that they had to be producers as
well as consumers, to the altitude in which
they live, which was conducive to mental
activity, and to the full freedom they en-
joyed under equal suffrage. She devoted
some time to telling of the progress made
in silk culture.”
	Mrs. Martindale, of England, and her
two talented daughters paid a visit to this
office during the month of May. We had
the pleasure of meeting Mrs. Martindale at
the International Council of women in
London, in 1899, and she presided at the
meeting in St. Martin’s Hall on the day
when Mrs. Susa Young Gates gave her
paper on Domestic Service, a subject in
which she is much interested. She felt
greatly disappointed at not meeting Mrs.
Gates here. The mother and daughters
had been making a tour of many countries,
visited the Holy Land, India, Australia,
New Zealand, New South Wales and the
most interesting Eastern cities of European
countries. Mrs. Martindale has a residence
in Brighton and is president of the Brigh-
ton Woman’s Liberal Association. One of
her daughters is a physician and the other
an inspector of public institutions for chil-
dren. The ladies visited all the historic
places of interest in the city and were
greatly pleased with what they saw and
heard while here.
	We were very agreeably surprised on
June 8 by a call from Mrs. Mary Lowe
Dickinson, of New York City. Mrs.
Dickinson was en route to Portland where she
is to give some lectures, thence to British
Columbia, where she has several appoint-
ments. She intends returning via Salt
Lake City, and will remain here two or
three days. Mrs. Dickinson is well known
in the United States and in foreign lands as
secretary of the King’s Daughters, an
International society which is one of the
largest organizations in the world, and has
done and is doing a magnificent work
among young women. Mrs. Dickinson
does much work through the medium of
the Silver Cross, a monthly magazine issued
by the Society of King’s Daughters. She
is the author of a number of books of both
prose and poetry. Our sisters know Mrs.
Dickinson through the National Council of
Women of the United States, of which she
was at one time president and is now one
of the honorary presidents. She is known
far and wide in educational work, gives
lectures in colleges and Universities on
various subjects of higher education.
When she returns here on her way home
we sincerely hope she may have the oppor-
tunity of addressing our young people in
one or more of the institutions of learning
in Utah, and of meeting more of our people
and visiting places of interest. Mrs. Mary
Lowe Dickinson ranks high among the
celebrated women of the age.
	Mrs. Josefa Humpal Zeman is another
celebrated woman who visited Salt Lake
recently and spent about ten days here.

[Column 3]
She was accompanied by her sister, Miss
Zeman and Mrs. Ema Zerzan. All of
them are Bohemians, and have established
themselves in Chicago where they have
lived ever since the Columbian Exposition.
Mrs. Zeman represented Bohemia at the
World’s Congress of Women in 1893, and
attracted a great deal of attention among
club and society women; directly after-
wards she founded a newspaper entitled
Zenske Lisly, the woman’s paper of Little
Bohemia, a part of Chicago where many
Bohemians reside and have their own clubs
and places of amusement, also churches.
The paper is entirely conducted by women
and is now issued weekly though started as
a monthly. Mrs. Zeman has a charming
personality. She enjoyed her visit to Salt
Lake very much. She spoke while here
most entertainingly to the Reapers Club on
Monday afternoon, May 26, and to the
Woman’s Press Club Friday evening, May
31. Below is what one of the Chicago
papers says of this charming Bohemian
woman:

	The personal history of the woman who founded
and now manages and edits Zenske Listy is inter-
esting. Seven years ago she was a delegate to the
World’s Congress of Women. She was born at
Pisek, Bohemia. Her father was a patriot of
intense devotion and became a voluntary exile
from his native land about the time Josefa was
four years old. The family came to America and
the foundations of the daughter’s education were
laid in the public schools of the United States. In
1881 they returned to Bohemia. Then the little
Josefa was given a taste of the native institutions.
She had a private tutor for awhile who awakened
in her an ardent admiration for the history, the
development and the civilization of her own land.
Afterwards she attended the high school of Pisek
and became confirmed in these deep-rooted emo-
tions of loyal affection to the fatherland.
	Her family returned again to America after
three years, and went to Chicago to reside.
Josefa desired above everything to respond to the
stimulating atmosphere of progress about her and
to assist her countrywomen to do likewise. There
appears to be that in the Slavic woman which
was formerly in the Huns—a mental unrest which
makes for a forward and upward movement of an
epoch-making profoundity.
	Of the Slavic race was Sonya Krukovsky
Kavalensky and Marie Bashkirtseff, both of whom
astounded the world with their masculine genius.

	There are many points of special interest
connected with this charming woman 
which we may give our readers at another
time. At the World’s Congress of
Women she came to be known as “the elo-
quent little Bohemian,” and was at that
time elected a vice-president of the Inter-
national Council of Women.
						EDITOR.


00AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SARAH B. LAYTON.
(Continued.)
The next spring we fenced a field and
planted some potatoes and wheat and were
beginning to feel at home. But that fall
(1857) word came to us that all the mission-
aries were to come home on account of the
threatening trouble at home. We now
set to work gathering up what we could and
preparing to start home. Some of the peo-
ple had sold their teams and wagons and
could not return, so they remained. We
took what we could and left the rest, and


September 1st found us ready to start for
Salt Lake City. The weather was cold and
the snow made it unpleasant for us. We
landed at Kaysville, November 1st. We
had no home to go to and winter was
coming. But we secured two small rooms
and settled down. Brother Layton was
called to go to Salmon river to assist the
people from that place, so we were left
alone again. Shortly after he started Bishop
Allen Taylor came and told us that we
must fix up our wagons and be ready to
start south in about two or three weeks.
We told him that we did not know what to
do, but that we would do the best we could
to get ready. Brother Layton came home
in about six weeks and when we told him
about it he said that he could not get ready
to start before early spring, as the teams
were worn out and there was not
much feed for them. But he finally decided
to go and we started not knowing where we
were going. This was the move.
When we reached Salt Lake City we
stopped there a short time. Our next camp-
ing place was at Utah Lake there the wind
and sand made it very unpleasant for us, so
we did not stay there very long, but moved
on to American Fork.
About the last of June word was received
for the people to return home. Brother
Layton with part of his family returned
immediately to see after the things and the
remaining part came along about the sixth
of July, tired and worn out. On the
eleventh I had another son born, whom we
called Ezra William. Soon after harvest
we bought a place known as the prairie
house, to which place we moved and
lived about a year. Then I went to live
alone in Kaysville, where I lived alone
during the winter. In the spring of 1860
we bought a farm of a man by the name of
George Allen, and on the fourth of April I
moved to that place and lived there alone
until the fall. October 17, 1860, another
son was born to me and we gave him the
name of David Edwin. In the spring of
1861 Brother Layton built a large house and
moved part of his family together. He
moved me to Salt Lake where I lived six
months and then returned to Kaysville,
and then moved down on the old farm
where Sarah and I lived,and the other three
wives, Isabelle, Caroline and Rose, had
homes elsewhere in Kaysville.
On January 25th I had another daughter
born and she was named Ann Barnes.
That year, October 25, 1863, Sarah Martin
Layton died, the cause being a cancer in
her breast. That was a hard blow to us.
all. She left two sons and one daughter,
four having preceded her to the great be-
yond. Her death was a very hard thing
for me to overcome, as we had been friends
from childhood, we had been more than
sisters. She was of a kind and gentle dis-
position, and unselfish in her nature. She
suffered untold pain for several months be-
fore death came to her relief. She was a
very worthy woman and her place has
never been filled. After her death I did not
live with any of the rest of the family, I
had several different homes. Her oldest son
lived with me until a short time before his
marriage, and when he left his younger
brother came and lived with me. They
seemed to be peacemakers wherever they
went.
I lived on the farm about four years.
While there in the old home, and on the
4th of September, 1865, my last child, a
daughter was born, and we called her Sarah
Elizabeth. I did some moving around until
1872, when I moved to the fort and have
lived there since. But many and varied
are the changes I have passed through, but
the Lord gave me strength to hold fast to
the Iron Rod for which I have ever been
thankful.
November 25, 1868 my mother died at
the age of seventy-four. Dropsy was the
cause of her death. She was buried in the
Kaysville cemetery. We missed her very
much, but we realized that parting must
come to all, though it is hard to part with
loved ones. My father lived alone in the
old home and cared for his garden, his
stock and fowls. He was an early riser and
always retired early; he did not know what
sickness was, and was always happy and
contented.
When I settled in Kaysville I began
dress making and worked very hard for a
living and to sustain my family. At the
organization of the Relief Society I was
chosen to be second counselor to my sister
who was chosen president. She occupied
that position until her death, June 5, 1871.
At that time Sister Mary Ann Hyde suc-
ceeded her, and I was chosen first
counselor.
In 1873 my eldest daughter learned tele-
graphy and took a position in the Utah
Central office and worked there five years.
In December of that year my eldest son was
married to Mary Egbert. He lived here
until January 1875 when he went with Lot
Smith as a missionary to Arizona.
Dress making was my work most of the
time, and the Lord blessed me in my work.
I made and mended clothes and cared for my
children. I had no one to give me a word
of encouragement or comfort, for I had
long since learned not to put my trust in
the arm of flesh. I knew that the principle
of plural marriage was true, and that I had
entered it of my own free will and choice,
with the determination to serve the Lord,
and was willing to bear my cross as best I
could. Many things crossed my lonely
path that were very unpleasant, but I be-
lieve that the race is not to the swift nor
the battle to the strong, but to those who
endure to the end. Had not my Father in
heaven had a watch care over me, I do not
know where I might have drifted had not
some unseen power watched me. But He
knew the many sacrifices I had made in
many ways to hold on to my children, and
He has given me the strength as I have
needed it so far. Many a time I was
tempted to do things that to me seemed
would bring happiness, but my own soul
told me that they would grieve the Spirit
of the Lord, and I was restrained, for I
knew that if I did as He commanded He
would not cast me off. I do not take any
of the credit to myself for not taking the
wrong course. The Lord was ever mindful
of me and did not suffer any more tempta-
tions to come along than He gave me
strength to bear up against.
In 1878 my daughter Mary Ann married
George Swan, and Ann B. took the position
in the telegraph office at Woods Cross. My
father died on the 9th of September, 1880,
at the age of ninety years, an honored and
well respected man. Thus one by one my
friends dropped off. I felt then that I was
alone in the world, as my father, mother
and only sister had gone from this world to
rest in peace until they should be awakened
on the morning of the resurrection. Then
we hope to meet to part no more.
I could write many pages telling of the
trials and heart-piercing scenes, that I
have passed through; but it would do no
good. When I put off mortality they can
all be buried with me. I can say with the
poet:

“But out of all the Lord has brought me by His
love,
And still He does His help afford to hide my life
above.”

I have learned in my own experience
that it is better to suffer wrong than it is to
do wrong. We must bear our own cross
and work out our own salvation. Exper-
ence is a good teacher, but he is severe. I
have many times been sick nigh unto death
but through the laying on of hands and the
prayer of faith I have been raised up.

(To be continued.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	Minutes of the Ladies' Semi-Monthly
Meeting held in the 14th Ward Hall,
March 30, 1901, at 2 o'clock, President M.
I. Horne presiding.
	Meeting commenced by singing, "God
moves in a mysterious way." Prayer by
Sister Elizabeth Webb. Singing, "Let us 
pray, gladly pray." Minutes read and ac-
cepted.
	President Horne said she would like all
the wards to pay in the money for the
building as soon as possible. President
Snow did not want the building begun till
$20,000 was received. Said she had visited
Granite Stake this morning, and they were
a thrifty Stake. Spoke of the vastness of
the work of the Relief Society and of the
responsibility of women as mothers,
we are never too old to learn our duty and
do it. Zion is growing and work is in-
creasing, be meek and united. It is the
wish of my heart to always teach the sis-
ters the truth. Spoke with much feeling
of the severe sickness of President George
Q. Cannon who was then in California.
	Counselor Stevenson said she continually
prayed to the Lord that she might see her
own faults and be blind to others. Read a
sketch from a lecture given by Prof. Mutch
on "The Wrong Way to Live." Said she
felt if the Saints had observed the Word of
Wisdom, what a blessed people they would 
be. Believed tea and coffee made people 
nervous.
	Sister Barton said she always felt bene-
fited when she attended these meetings.
She was thankful she knew there was a
God, and a doubt of such a being was
never in her mind.
	Sisters Corbett, Barnes, Wright, Hardy,
Horrocks, Colum, Gunn and Julia S.
Woolley spoke of the Word of Wisdom and
the love they had for the Relief Society.
	Sisters Ball, Ellis and Pond each bore
faithful testimonies of the truth.
	President M. I. Horne said she thought
it would be a good thing if missionaries could
be sent to visit the different branches of the
Relief Society. Spoke of the necessity of
women not aspiring to places they were not
prepared for. All are required to bring
what money they have for the building two
weeks from today, to the officers meeting.
	Meeting adjourned for four weeks.
Singing, Doxology. Benediction by Annie
T. Hyde.
J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
  A TRIBUTE OE RESPECT TO THE 
	   LATTER-DAY SAINTS.

	FROM A FRENCH WOMAN.

	About four years ago Mrs. Eugenie
Cleophas, a distinguished French lady,
visited our capital. She came in connec-
tion with Gentile philanthropic enter-
prise, but was very much interested in the
Relief Society of our Church, and expressed
herself to this effect to the First Presidency
with whom she obtained an interview.
She resides in Wyoming and since her re-
turn she has opened her house to the
Saints for both religious and social func-
tions.
Hearing that a young Mormon sheep-
herder was very sick, with no one to nurse
him but the cattlemen upon the range, she
took him to her home and cared for him
with the greatest solicitude, but in spite of
her efforts he passed away on Fobruary 3,
1901.
	Mrs. Cleophas having been left a widow
at an early age, she was well able to sym-
pathize with the young wife of the deceased
man, and being a poetess, she wrote the
following lines to Sister Park. We give
the original and translation.

	In remembrance of James Park, dedicated to
his widow by their devoted friend, Mrs. Eugenie
Cleophas, who nursed him during his last days
upon this earth.

	A si grande douleur, hélas que peut on dire?
	L'âme brisée se tord en un immense emoi!
	Il semble que jamais on ne pourra sourir
	Car le coeuré perdu, coeur éspardu regarde avec effroi
	Au fond de l'avenir la triste solitude
	Qui atteint pour tonjours celui qui reste en bas
	C'est un morne abandon, une âpre solitude
	Qui vous saisit, vous garde et ne vous quitte pas.

	Quande on s'est tant aimé! se sentir seul sur terer
	Comprendre que jamais on ne se verra plus
	Ne plus se voir! veiller et pleurer solitaire
	C'est l’ombre et le nèant. Et cēux qu òn a pérdus
	Froíds et silancieux, dans leur cercueil de marbre
	Ne verront plus nos pleurs et notre desespoir
	Lorsque le soir venu alors que la nuit tarde
	Vous pensons à l'absent, et renions l'espoir!

	Ah ! 1'espoir nous l'avions jusqu’au dernier sourire
	Du cher mourant. Dans son regarde déjǎ glacè
	Maigre tout, nous cherchions a’y lire.
	Un rayon d'esperance mais Dieu avait placè
	La main sur cette tête, et malgré nos prieres
	La froide mort l'apris; en nous laissant brisés
	Annéanti, perdu, le front dans la poussiére
	Livied, l’oeil atone, en songeant au passè ! 

	Ce passé disparu dans la nuit de la tombe, 
	Se présente à nos yeux entouré de bonheur
	D'illusions, de paix! Et quand tout d'uncoup tombe
	La foudre qui écrase et détruit notre coeur,
	Nons restons ètourdis sous la main qui nous fappe.
	Cherchant ce qui a purendre Dieu si cruel
	Doutant de sa bontè, car son but nous èchappe
	Mais lui avec douceur il nous montre le Ciel.

	C'est là que le mourant en quittant cette terre
	Est allé nons attendre, et d'un bonheur parfait
	Il jouit pour tonjonrs, sans douleur, ni misère
	Sans souci d'avenir. Et quand il nons laissait
	C'ètait pour habiter la céleste demeure
	Que Dieu donne à tons ceux qui souffre ici bas
	Il est lui bien heureux! O pauvre femme plewre
	Ton époux envolé; mais ne regrette pas.

	Pour lui mille ennuis de cette vie de peine
	Où chaque homme semblable au galérien maudit
	Dispute chaque jour son pain, et se déméne
	Pour trouver le bonheur qui constàmment le fuit !
	Laise le maintenant apés tant de souffrance
	Gôuter un doux repos, infini; éternal;
	Et Dieu dans sa bonté te donne l'esperance
	Une fois tout fini, de le rejoindre au Ciel !

	Words cannot paint a sorrow such as this,
	The wounded spirit, writhing as in pain,
	Sees in the future, one dark, long abyss,
	And feels that it can never smile again,
	With startled eyes it penetrates the space, 
	And views the straightened form within the gloom;
Lying alone, so far from her he loved,
	Within the narrow limits of the tomb.

	When one has known a husband’s tender love,
	To face alone a future all unknown,
	Through all the trials that the years may bring,
	To feel that one must watch and weep alone !
	While he, upon whose strength we loved to lean,
	Lies cold and silent in the marble tomb,
	Sees not our tears, nor heeds our wild despair—
	Hope leaves us as we contemplate our doom !
[column 2]
	Hope leaves us ! we who clung to hope so long,
	Aud would not see death in the glaring eye,
	To his last smile our soul responsive cried,
	"Courage, dear heart, stern death shall pass us by."
	But God our Father laid a gentle hand,
	Upon the fevered brow, and so he died;
	Leaving us crushed, our foreheads in the dust,
	So stunued that even tears were then denied.

	With steadfast gaze we looked into the past.
	Where memory's store-house opened to our view
	Visions of peace and joy ineffable,
	To which we now must bid a long adieu—
	And when at last we realized the blow,
	Which like a thunder-bolt had wrecked our life, 
	We asked—does God in mercy send stern death,
	To separate a husband from a wife ?

	But God, our Father, bade us raise our eyes,
	The veil was lifted to our wondering sight,
	And him we mourned as dead we then beheld
	In realms of perfect bliss and pure delight
	Freed from his suffering, sorrow, pain and woe,
	Where earthly cares no longer chafe or fret—
	It is enough ! poor wounded, sorrowing soul,
	Weep if thou wilt, but canst thou know regret?

	No more for him the fight for daily bread,
	That chains man like a slave to dull routine.
	No more for him the fight for happiness
	And earthly joys that vanish like a dream !
	Thou wouldst not break into his quiet rest,
	Nay, rather wouldst thou face the world alone !
	May God in mercy give thee that sweet hope,
	To meet again where partings are unknown.

							MARY F. KELLY.


AN ITEM OF HISTORY.
	Last Sunday, May 26, 1901, at a fast
meeting in the Temple, we were talking
about the various trials some people had to
pass through in this life, but many times
seemed to prove to be blessings in disguise.
	I mentioned visiting Sister Eliza R.
Snow when she was sick in Nauvoo in an
upper room in Col. Markham’s house, a
room so low that she could almost reach
the rafters as she lay in bed; without car-
pet on the floor, perhaps a chair or two, a
small trunk, a stand or table, perhaps a
candlestick and a tallow candle. I have
been told it was in this room she composed
that beautiful hymn, “O my Father.” If
she had had a splendidly furnished room
with every comfort, perhaps she would not
have been inspired to compose that hymn.
	President Snow said it was likely she
would not.
			BATHSHEBA W. SMITH


REORGANIZATION NINETEENTH WARD.

	The annual meeting of the Nineteenth
Ward Relief Society, Salt Lake City,
was held in the ward hall, May 6, 1901.
	On the stand were Bishop Barton and
his counselors, President M. Isabella Horne,
J. C. Howe and several other sisters of the
Stake Board.
	Meeting was called to order by Annie
Rawlins. After the opening exercises the
Bishop spoke for a short time giving many
good instructions and said though he re-
gretted the resignation of President Ann E.
Neal, he felt to accept it in consideration of
her other duties, and presented the name of
Annie Rawlins as the future president who
received a unanimous vote.
	President Rawlins said she felt very
humble in accepting this position, but with
the help of her Heavenly Father hoped to
be able to perform her duty. She then
mentioned as her first counselor Sister
Rebecca J. Asper. Sister Asper responded
briefly. Sister Rawlins and Sister Asper
were then set apart by the Bishopric, as
was also Hattie B. Harker for secretary.
	Ann E. Neal, the retiring president,
spoke at some length of her love for the
society work and said that she and her
counselors and the teachers had always


been united in working for the poor and
needy and hoped that the society would
grow and increase.
	The visiting brethren and sisters gave
wise counsel and at the close of the meet-
ing light refreshments were served.
	At a meeting held the following week
Sister Sarah A. Hancock was chosen as
second counselor.
						H. B. H.


SAN FRANCISCO RELIEF SOCIETY.
   Minutes of the Relief Society meeting
held at the Latter-day Saints California
mission headquarters, 939 Golden Gate
Ave., San Francisco, California, April 19,
1901, President E. H. Nye presiding, who
has for the last four years and a half pre-
sided over the California mission.
   President Nye’s wife, Sister Harriet
Nye, was appointed missionary to the
California mission by President Wilford
Woodruff, which position she has honored
up to the present time, of her release.
   President Nye called the sisters together
for the purpose of reorganizing the Relief
Society, Sister Ida M. Sarll having ten-
dered her resignation as president, and said
resignation having been accepted.
   Elder Joseph E. Robinson, who succeeds
President Nye as president of the mission,
was present and assisted in the reorganiza-
tion of the Society.    The opening hymn
was “Earth with her ten thousand flowers.’’
Prayer by Sister Rawlison. Second hymn,
“How firm a foundation.”
   President Nye made a short speech and
stated the obligations the mission was
under to the San Francisco Relief Society,
and that the purpose of the present meet-
ing was to reorganize the society. He also
gave some very pertinent instructions and
kindly advice.
   Elder Joseph E. Robinson spoke a few
moments after which President Nye pre-
sented the name of Sister Mary Hughes, of
1715 Mason St., as president of the Relief
Society, who was unanimously sustained.
   Sister Hughes expressed her willingness,
with the help of the Lord would do her duty.
   The name of Sister Harriet Von Den
Bergh, of 526 A. 6th St., was presented as
first counselor, who was unanimously sus-
tained.    She signified her willingness to
accept the office.
   The name of Sister Elizabeth Rawlinson,
of 1219 Lombard St., was proposed as
second counselor.    She also was unani-
mously sustained and expressed her will-
ingness to serve and her appreciation for
the confidence reposed in her.
   Next the name of Sister Mina A. Towne,
of 305 Larkin St, was presented as secretary
of the Relief Society, who also was unan-
mously sustained and she also signified
her willingness to act and her appreciation
of the trust reposed in her.
   The name of Sister Young, of Alameda,
was presented for treasurer.   She was
unanimously sustained, and expressed her
willingness to serve and her desire to per-
form her duty faithfully.
   The sisters were then set apart by
President Nye and Elder Robison, alter-
nately.
   President Nye gave some other instruc-
tions and the meeting adjourned.   Closing
hymn, “Praise God from whom all bless-
ing s flow.” Benediction, Joseph E. Robin-
son. Next meeting wes appointed for
Friday, May 3, at 2 o’clock p. m.
			MINA A. TOWNE, Sec.


4 WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Womans Exponent.

EMMELINE D. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year. $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	dvertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
cpace one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal di-
s unt to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p.m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS, 
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, at
second-class matter.

	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE, 1901.


IMPORTANT NOTICE.
	The conference of the General Relief
Society talked of for June of the present
year has been postponed, because of so
many conferences and public meetings and
festivities being held this month.	It is
likely, however, that two or three meet-
ings of the society will be held at a date to
be decided upon later.	However there
will be a gathering of this large and im-
portant organization at Saltair on the 9th
of July for the benefit of the Woman’s
Building, which is to be erected in this city
and the people far and near are urged to
help make the affair a social and financial
success. Every effort possible will be made
to get special railroad rates for those com-
ing from a distance.


THE NEW VOLUME.
	This issue of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
begins a new volume, opening the thirtieth
year since its commencement, June 1, 1872.
During that period much has transpired of
interest to us as a people, to the world at
large and especially to womankind. The
women of Utah and of the Church of 
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints have
made great advancement along many lines
of progress. To all those who have kept
on file the copies of this little paper this
fact will be apparent in looking over the
copies from the beginning. We are often
asked for old copies, for instance, today
comes a request from Amsterdam for certain
copies needed to make up a complete file
for a collection of women’s papers of the 
world.
	If our sisters in the Church could be im-
pressed with the value of this litttle
journal they would certainly sustain it bet-
ter. Let us prophesy good for our own
woman's work, and let us believe what we
foretell and endeavor to make it come to
pass by using all the influence possible to
maintain home literature, as well as home
manufactures and home productions.


ONE HUNDRED YEARS.
	The first day of June of this present year
marked the century hour of the birth of
Brigham Young, the founder of Utah, the
great pioneer, colonizer and organizer, and
for forty three years president of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	Brigham Young was one of the greatest
men of the nineteenth century, perhaps the
greatest except Joseph Smith, certainly so


considered by the people among whom al-
most his entire life was spent. His was a
master-spirit, and a mind quick to grasp
and settle great and grave questions; he was
one who entered into detail and never
missed a point. He seemed to see every-
thing, small and great, and remembered
better than any man the writer has ever
met, every person, man woman and child,
whom he had ever seen before. He had a
most remarkable memory of incident and
was quick to discern character. He had a
wonderful faculty of controling and of
guiding people of all classes and national-
ties. One might fill volumes with inci-
dents of his life worth recording. It is well
to keep before the youth of Zion the attri-
butes and active deeds of this great man,
and to perpetuate his memory in every way
possible.
It was gratifying indeed to see so many
honor his hundredth anniversary, and to
hear the many encomiums of praise of his
life and character from the speakers on that
occasion. And as time rolls on more and
more will the people of the world be will-
ing to acknowledge his good works, his
deeds of valor, his humanitarianism and
his greatness of soul.
The program of exercises at Saltair on
June I, was very well rendered and the
music was specially fine; the weather was
very favorable. President Lorenzo Snow
was present and some of the Apostles, and
there were several of the sons and daugh-
ters of President Young. Of his wives
there were present, Margaret P. Young,
Eliza B. Young, and Amelia F. Young.
President Zina D. H. Young was detained
at home on account of the illness of some
of her grandchildren. There were many
from a distance, relatives and friends, and
it was pleasant to see the old friends
and to meet them, even for a few minutes.
Time rushes onward and ere long there will
be but a few people living who knew
Brigham Young personally.
Brigham Young was a true friend to
woman and he reposed confidence in
women, and was ever anxious to see our
sisters step forward in the line of progress
and advancement; he favored woman’s en-
tire freedom in all the walks of life.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	A meeting of the daughters of the Utah
pioneers was held at the residence of Mrs.
Alonzo E. Hyde, in this city, on Thursday,
April 11, 1901, invitations having been
previously issued to a number of the
daughters. A society was organized in a
preliminary way and a Committee on Con-
stitution appointed.	Mrs. Annie T. Hyde
was elected president; Maria V. Dougall
and Alice K. Smith, vice-presidents; Alice
M. Horne, secretary;. Julia P. 	M.
Farnsworth, corresponding secretary, and
Minnie H. James, treasurer.	Since that
time other meetings have been held and the
Constitution framed and adopted.	There
is to be a celebration of a suitable nature,
possibly on the memorable 24th of July.
The objects are to perpetuate the memory
of the heroic pioneer forefathers and fore-
mothers and to promote good-fellowship
among the posterity of these renowned
veterans.
	At the meeting of the Reapers’ Club,
Monday, June 10, Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas
gave an entertaining talk on her trip to
England, France, Scotland and Wales. She

(Column 2)
had evidently traveled with her eyes open
and made the places of which she spoke
seem very real. 	Mrs. Thomas visited old
churches and described them well, and she
told us of people who interested her.	She
spoke charmingly of Paris and her im-
pressions of that wonderful city, and of the
French people whom she greatly admires in
many ways. She sort of compared the
English and American working people
making it very realistic. She thoroughly
enjoyed seeing Sir Henry Irving in the
play of Robespierre, and on another occasion
was fortunate to be present at one of his
readings, which she appreciated very much.
Mrs. Thomas is a delightful talker and the
club feel her presence in their midst again
a great pleasure, and joyfully welcome
her home again from her long sojourn
abroad.
	The conference of the Young People’s
Associations that convened in this city on
June 2 and 3 was one of great significance,
and the attendance was very large indeed.
The veteran president of the Church was
present and gave the opening address,
which was very gratifying to the assembly.
It was also a great satisfaction to hear the
young women speak in the large Taber-
nacle as well as the young men.	It really
made one feel as though this were indeed
the woman’s century.	The great organ
pealing forth its wonderful tones with the
fine singers, both men and women, added
more to the grandeur of the services than
one at a distance would imagine.	As a
people we are highly favored to have the
great Tabernacle and the wonderful organ
which adds so much to the loftiness and
superb effect of such occasions. Certainly a
conference such as this has been must have
an uplifting tendency upon the associations
as a whole, and the spiritual benefit should,
and one would think, must be far-reaching
and make a lasting impression.
	The reception given by the Y. M. and
Y. L. Associations at the Bee Hive House
on the evening of June 4, 1901, snrpassed
all others of its kind in some of its main
features. The house itself is historic, built
at an early period by the founder of Utah,
Brigham Young, and at that time
Governor of the Territory, and it is where
many parties and dinners were given to
distinguished people during that period as
well as afterwards on many occasions while
President Young was living.	At present it
is the residence of President Lorenzo Snow,
whose life and labors are a part of Church
history, and who, at the advanced age of
eighty-seven years, still maintains his
vitality and energies with all his faculties
in a truly wonderful degree. His presence
at the reception was a great attraction and
hundreds of young people from a distance
had the opportunity of meeting him person-
ally and exchanging greetings, which was
doubtless fully appreciated.	It was sur-
prising to see with what genuine en-
joyment he entered into the general spirit
of the program, particularly the musical
part. The decorations of fresh flowers were
exquisite and a perfect delight to flower-
lovers. Mrs. E. S. Taylor, president of
of the great association of young women
was also present and though not able to
take part in the program it was a pleasure
to have her in the midst of the young ladies
in whose interest she has labored so faith-
fully and traveled so extensively twenty-
one years this June.	It is probable every


Stake of Zion was represented in that
gathering of five hundred and over. Ice
cream, strawberries, cake and lemonade
were served to the entire company by a
bevy of beautiful girls. Zion is growing
rapidly and the youth are advancing in
wisdom, knowledge and understanding.

	The Tenth Ward Primary Association
held its annual meeting on Sunday evening,
May 26. The meeting house was crowded
to overflowing. The floral decorations
were profuse and very beautiful, great 
bowls of sego lilies and many varieties of
wild flowers, also roses, pansies, peonies
and honeysuckles in abundance. The fra-
grance was like that of a flower garden,
but the beautiful children surpassed even 
the lovely flowers, and the order was excel-
lent. Mrs. Paul, the president, possesses in
a rare degree the essential qualifications to 
interest and attract the children. She pre-
sided with grace and dignity and has un-
doubtedly in the short time she has had
charge won the love of the little people of
the ward in her care. The exercises were
well rendered and the selections for the pro-
gram were so carefully arranged as not to
be tiresome to the children. President
Camila Cobb and her counselors, with one
or two aids, were present, also Mrs. E B. 
Wells, Bishop Spiers, Prof. J. H. Paul,
Mrs. Elizabeth Paul, (president of the
Tenth Ward Relief Society) and a large
number of the parents of the children. The
Book of Mormon exercise given was one of
the best features of the evening and reflected
great credit on the part of those in charge
as well as the little people who gave it.
Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs. C. Cobb and
Bishop Spiers each made a few remarks
commending the work done and good order
observed during the meeting. The Pri-
mary Association deserves our fostering
care, and parents cannot be too mindful of
those who are giving time, thought and 
care to their children, training them in the 
spirit of the Gospel and in those things that
tend to right and righteousness.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


SUPPLEMENTARY.
	The sketch of the life and death of Mrs.
Maria Taylor McRae, of Thatcher,
Arizona, which was published in the
EXPONENT of May 15, was not quite com-
plete, as it did not contain notice of her
work in women's organizations, therefore
we add now what was sent us, but by mis-
take was omitted from the article.
	Sister Maria McRae was chosen secretary
of the Relief Society of St. David, Arizona,
April 18, 1878, and afterwards chosen
counselor to Sister Cyrena Merrill in the
summer of 1880, having, of course, resigned
her position as secretary. In February,
1891, she was selected to take charge of the 
Relief Society store at that place. When
a change was made she was chosen counselor
to Sister Elizabeth Layton. July 3, 1883,
and was afterwards elected president of the
Relief Society in July, 1885, and continued
in this position until moving away in 1893.
	Many accounts are given of her great
labors and good work in helping to build
the rock meeting house there and in caring
for the sick and poor and ministering to
those in need of spiritual or temporal
comfort.
	She was chosen first counselor in the
Primary Association in the Thatcher Ward
in February, 1894, and an aid in the Relief
Society Stake Board, St. Joseph, Septem-


ber 13, 1895, which position she held at the
time of her decease.
	These items were furnished by the sisters
at Thatcher, but do not state very clearly
in regard to the wards in which she labored
so efficiently, but we do feel too much can-
not be said in her praise. “It may well be
said of her, her children rise up and call
her blessed, her husband also, and he
praiseth her.”
	That her children may emulate her noble
example and be as faithful and as true as
their mother, is the ardent wish of the
writer.
	E. B. W.


[Column 1]
A FAITHFUL WOMAN.
Editor Woman's Exponent:

	Our Relief Society in Fairview, Utah,
feel that more than a mere notice of the
death of our beloved president is due to
the memory of her worthy life, therefore
they send you her biography that after you
have made whatever changes you desire, it
may be published in the Exponent.
	Mary A. Pritchett was born July 4, 1819
in North Carolina. At the age of two
years her parents removed to Virginia. The
rest of her life up to the time of her coming
West was spent in the grand old historic
state. All the Southern fire and chivalry
peculiar to her race whose ancestors were
French, coursed through her veins. In
1839 she was married to Joseph M Pritch-
ett, a well to do Virginian planter, and be-
came the mother of sons and daughters,
eight of whom grew to maturity.
	The Gospel was brought to her by
Jed. Grant, Joshua Grant, Joseph Park, D.
O. Rideout and Hamilton.
	At the time the War was devastating the
South, and they living in the confederate
State, were called upon to furnish patriots
for the rebel army and some of her sons
were “soldier boys.”
	After receiving the Gospel herself, her
strongest desire was that the hearts of her
children be touched, and that they all
gather to Zion. One thing that the better
enabled her to succeed in gathering her fam-
ily to Utah, was that the horrors of war
were upon and all about them; and though
the sons fought for the South, and their
hearts were naturally loyal to their own
district, yet they felt that their cause was
hopeless, and having been pressed into
service by not the most law-abiding of their
fellows, they were very anxious to bid
good bye to the ranks. All but one served
his term, and that one bid good bye to his
pards one day in the woods and traveled
westward, just three days before the terri-
ble fighting at Richmond began.
	Her husband was enabled to dispose of
his property and prepare for the journey
“across the plains” in the autumn of ’64,
going to Ohio where she was to join him
two months later at Portsmouth. Accord-
ingly herself and two youngest children, a
boy and a girl aged respectively 15 and 13,
and a married son with his wife and two
babes, and a married daughter with three
very small children, began the overland
journey.
	Their outfit was an excellent one for the
time, consisting of two good teams and
wagons well laden with excellent food,
clothing and bedding, one extra horse to
ride and ten head of stock.
	They had proceeded but about 73 miles
on their journey when a band of Guerrillas

[Column 2]

relieved them one evening of all their
loose stock and all their horses, save the one
the boy rode, while herding; not only that
but they caught the boy with a rope that
they did not hesitate to say was to lift him
above the earth with, and he was obliged
to cut through the mountains alone in by-
paths to save his life.
	The indomitable spirit of this woman
never flinched, though they must now
journey on foot, these five people with their
five helpless children, leaving by the road-
side all the provisions they had made for
their comfort to be taken by any way-
farer or by foragers from either army. Not
for one moment did she turn her eyes
backward toward her former friends and
relatives, not even tho’ she was well aware
a warm Southern welcome would have
been extended to her with all the comforts
within the power of their courtesy to be-
stow, especially if she had left her religion
with her provisions.
	An account of the many difficulties and
hardships she had to meet and overcome or
bow beneath, while they traveled a distance
of about 200 miles, through the heart of the
battle swept country in the late autumn
and early winter, when rain was of almost
daily and nightly occurrence, would make
a book of no small dimensions, and that
would not be lacking in thrilling events or
stirring loyalty.
	At Brownsville they took steamer for
Portsmouth where she met her husband
and afterwards they took passage for St.
Louis. 
	In the spring of ’67 they prepared to
cross the plains with a company of the
Saints, and her history from that time on
became the history of the Saints, so well
known to all. Fairview was their final
stopping place and their home has been in
this ward ever since.
	June 14, 1869, the. Relief Society of this
ward was organized and Sister Pritchett
was chosen its president, which responsible
position she has held with dignity and
pride up to the day of her decease, Febru-
ary 27, 1901, having been elected president
of the board of directors in 1893, at the
organization according to the laws of the
Territory.
	As we review in mind her life work we
wonder if there are many who ever with so
scanty opportunity performed so many
blessed deeds of charity and benevolence.
She was ever at the bedside of the sick; her
motherly counsel was never sought in vain
either by man, woman or child; the needy
were never refused assistance when they
applied to her, and were usually supplied
with employment—the best of help to the
poor. Her spinning and weaving never
pressed her so hard that she had not time
to attend to her religious duties.
	Regarding the society under her direction
she often received inspiration and some-
times revelation on questions that were, not
then understood, but that were later, ex-
plained by those more experienced, or in
higher places in the very same way they
had been revealed to her.
	Her tenacity in adhering to counsel was
something wonderful, and due to this
quality is the fact that our comparatively,
small society has 2,343 bushels of wheat on
hand in excellent condition.
	She always had a desire to “die in the 
harness," and her desire was granted her.
During her last illness of two months the
responsibility of the society rested on her
mind. She did not forget to send in her


membership fee of ten cents with a request
that whether she be still in the flesh or not
it be donated at the appointed time, March
17, 1901.
Her eventful and useful life closed Feb-
ruary 28, 1901. All Fairview lost a mother
when President Pritchett died.
Euphrasia Day, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


AROUND POCATELLO STAKE.

	On Monday morning, April 22, the Stake
officers of the Relief Society and Y. L. M.
I. A. started on a tour around the Stake,
making the journey by team.
	There were in the party President Eliza
M. Oram, Counselor Matilda Smith and
Secretary Martha M. Scadden, of the Stake
Board of the Relief Society. We visited
eight wards in the Stake, but owing to
disease prevalent in the remaining wards
we were unable to visit them. We traveled
all day, reaching Rockland Monday eve-
ning.
	On Tuesday we proceeded to the meet-
ing house to meet our appointment. At 2
p. m. meeting convened with twenty eight
in attendance. Singing, "How firm a 
foundation." Prayer was offered by
Sister Florence Benyon. Singing, "Earth
with her ten thousand flowers.
	Counselor Matilda Smith was the first
speaker. She exhorted all to live lives of
Saints and to be faithful in keeping the
commandments of God. The sisters should
keep consecrated oil in the house as a pre-
ventive against the diseases that are
abroad. Exhorted all to seek a spirit of
love and charity towards each other. Spoke
on the necessity of attending to our prayers
and bore her testimony. Spoke against
card playing.
	President Oram spoke on cleanliness
and on tithing. Also spoke on the responsi-
bility of raising families in the ways of
God.
	Sister Edith Harrison spoke on the 
efficacy of prayer; also on home-making,
exhorting the sisters to make home a de-
sirable place where the children would
seek for their enjoyment.
	Sister Helen Oram spoke of loving one
another and doing good to those whom
we dislike most.
	The ward officers also spoke and felt de-
sirous to do their duty and obey counsel.
	We next returned to Pocatello and held
meeting with the Relief Society of Pocatello
Ward, Friday, April 26. After opening
exercises Counselor Matilda Smith spoke
on the principle of faith and of exercising
more faith than we do in cases of sickness,
and of the efficacy of the consecrated oil.
	Counselor Josephine Rosengreen felt she
was blessed in being able to attend this
meeting. We all have a mission to per-
form and could do much good or much
harm. We should be prayerful and seek to
do as much good as possible.
	Corresponding Secretary Annie Bird felt
we had great privileges and responsibilities
upon us. Should school ourselves and
prepare to become exalted in heaven. Our
actions will mark our record and we should
live to make a good record.
	President Oram spoke on the necessity of
having the Woman's Building in Salt Lake
City. Bore testimony of the Gospel and of 
the gifts that follow the believer. We
should do good for those whom we most
dislike. Exhorted all to respect the priest-
hood.
	We next met with Dempsey Ward, Sun-
day, April 28. Sister Smith was the first
speaker and felt to encourage a labor with
those who do not attend Spoke on the ten
cent fund, also spoke on the correct training
of children in the Gospel and of teaching
them to pray and to be obedient.
	President Oram suggested that a mis-
sionary labor be taken by the presidency of
each ward and that they visit every mem-
ber. Exhorted all to receive the teachers
kindly. Spoke upon the Word of Wisdom.
	Secretary M. Scadden encouraged the
girls to become initiated in the Relief
Society work, they could help much in
caring for the sick.
	Held meeting with Cambridge Ward
Relief Society, Monday, April 29. Presi-
dent Oram spoke against evil speaking of
one another. Encouraged the teachers to
be energetic. All should inculcate the gift
of faith, also spoke of the Woman's
Building. Encouraged attendance to all
spiritual duties. We should use wisdom
and not run into contagious diseases, but
see that none are in need.
	Counselor Smith spoke of the mission of
the Relief Society and exhorted all to re-
spect and obey those in authority.
	We next met with Woodland Ward
Relief Society, Wednesday, May 1. The
first part of meeting was devoted to busi-
ness, as there were some vacancies to fill.
	Counseler Smith spoke on being forgiving
and charitable and of being exemplary be-
fore our children.
	President Oram spoke on the organiza-
tion of the Relief Society by the Prophet
Joseph, also on the necessity of unity and
against fault finding with those in authority.
	Sisters M. Smith, H. Oram and Edith
Harrison sang "O my Father."
	Secretary M. Scadden spoke on the mis-
sion of the Relief Society and exhorted all
to attend to their duties. Urged teachers
to labor with the young ladies and en-
courage them to become members of the
Relief Society.
	Met with Marsh Center Relief Society,
Thursday, May 2. Counselor Matilda
Smith felt to encourage those who had
come out in the storm to attend this
meeting. Spoke on tithing and training
children in the principles of the Gospel and
teaching them to be obedient.
	President Oram exhorted the sisters to
attend all sacrament meetings. Spoke on
the efficacy of consecrated oil in sickness.
	Counselor Smith sang "The Fisherman
and his Child."
	Sister Williams, of the Y. L. M. I. A.,
felt we should teach the children to sing.
Should obey counsel, and receive office as
a blessing and not as a burden.
	President Oram exhorted all to study
and not seek office.
	Met with the Relief Society of Garden
Creek, Friday, May 3. Counselor Smith
spoke on the necessity of a conference
house in Salt Lake City, also on the neces-
sity of keeping oil and exercising faith in
the ordinances for the sick. 
	Secretary M. Scadden spoke of unity,
prayer and forgiveness and exhorted all to
sustain their officers.
	Sister Douglas, of the Y. L. M. I. A.,
encouraged all to attend their meetings and
help the presidents.
	Sisters Nellie Oram and Edith Harrison,
of the Y. L. M. I. A., sang, "Nay, speak 
no ill."
	President Oram spoke on cleanliness and
order and touched on many important
subjects. Enjoyed doing her duty, had 
been blessed in paying tithing.
	Met with McCammon Ward Relief
Society, Saturday, May 4, at 11 a. m.
After opening exercises Counselor Smith 
said she had attended conference in Salt
Lake City and heard President Snow speak
on the increase of tithe payers Spoke to
some officers just sustained, and exhorted
them to be diligent in doing their duty and 
regard their office as a blessing.
	President Oram spoke of the high calling
of a teacher. All should be united and not
stir up strife. They should settle all 
Relief Society difficulties in the society and 
not trouble the Bishops with them. Meet-
ing closed with singing "O my Father."
Benediction by Julia Hall.
	The ward officers of each society felt
well and desired to do their duty.
	Immediately after meeting in McCammon
we started homeward, reaching Pocatello
again at 9:30 p m. We all felt well and
had very much enjoyed our trip and our 
labors, and we sincerely trust that some
little good has been accomplished by this
labor in this Stake of Zion.
	May God bless the Relief Society and
Relief Society workers everywhere is the
earnest prayer of your sisters in the cause of 
truth.
			Martha Scadden, Sec.
	In behalf of the Relief Society.


OBITUARY.

		A TRIBUTE OF LOVE.

	Sarah Martitia Allen Pearson died at Draper,
Salt Lake Co., Utah, February 28, 1901, at the
age of 52 years. She was a good mother, a pru-
dent wife, a woman of sterling qualities aud a firm
believer in the Gospel of Jesus Christ. She was a 
member of the Draper Relief Society, although
her labors were of a private nature. She was a 
peace maker in very deed. Wise in judgment and
of a quiet disposition, but one greatly beloved by
her family and friends.
	She was a descendant of the old Revolutionary
stock of Virginia and South Carolina. She was
the fourth child of Andrew Jackson Allen, of
Kentucky, who was one of the pioneers of Utah in
1847, and Delilah Andrus Allen, of Illinois.
	Her grandfather, Rial Allen, was born in 1791
in South Carolina, three years after South Caro-
lina accepted the present constitution, which
changed it from a royal province to one of the
thirteen original states, and during the second
year of Washington's first administration. He
was the son of Samuel Allen, of North Carolina,
who assisted in the struggle for liberty, and sup-
posed to be of English origin dating back to the
colony Albermarle, whose settlers came from
Virginia prior to 1663. 
	Archibald Andrus, her mother's father, was born
in Halifax, Virginia, on the 9th of January, 1771.
He was the son of Eleazer Andrus, of Virginia, of
Scottish descent.
	Sister Pearson was born February 19, 1849, in
Salt Lake City. She with her parents were num-
bered among the first settlers of Draper. She
grew to womanhood having the same or similar
experiences to those of her forefathers and inci-
dental to the early settlers of Utah. She received
her education principally under the late Dr. J. R.
Park. On the 17th of March, 1878, she was mar-
ried to Henry Pearson, in Salt Lake City. On the
24th of December, 1869, her first child was born,
Henry Allen Pearson, whose childhood was passed
at Draper, and who, at the age of seventeen 
years, graduated at the Deseret University of
Utah. He entered the Naval Academy at An-
napolis, Md., two years later.
	At the end of six years he graduated and entered
the United States Navy, and has risen from cadet
to lieutenant. He served with Admiral Dewey
in Oriental waters at the outbreak of the war with
Spain, and was in charge of the Zafric which cut
the cable that connected Manila with the outside
world.
	Since that time eight other children have been 
born to her ; two daughters and six sons, seven of
whom survive her. Her eldest daughter died one
year and one month before the mother, leaving a


little grandson one year old. This great shock so
affected her health that she never recovered, but
grieved and mourned for her daughter up to the
time of her own demise. She leaves a host of
relatives and friends to mourn her loss.
	Sad are our hearts, dear sister, without you, but
we feel comforted when we think of the noble
work left here on earth as a monument of honor
and praise to your memory.
	Thou hast been true to the trust our Heavenly
Father placed in thee. Thou hast never shirked a
duty or complained of the hardness of thy lot.
Thou hast set a grand example for thy family and
friends to imitate, and we will think of thee hence-
forth as not in the dark tomb but rather dressed in
thy heavenly robes, mingling with the good and
just awaiting to receive those dear to thee as they
are prepared and called home to the mansions of
glory.
	This is lovingly dedicated to her husband and
children by her sister,
	Delilah E. Allen Dudley.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.
ST. JOSEPH STAKE. 

The semi-annual conference of the N. W.
R. S. of St. Joseph Stake met in the Pima
meeting house, Friday, May 17, 1901, at
10 a. m and 2 p. m., President Elizabeth
Layton presiding.
Present on the stand were Elder L. John
Nuttall and President Emma S. Woodruff,
of Salt Lake City, who were visiting the
organizations in eastern and southern
Arizona; also the presiding priesthood of
the Stake, as well as the Bishops of several
wards.
After the usual opening exercises roll of
officers was called and minutes of Decem-
ber conference, 1900, was read and ap-
proved.
President Layton said we were greatly
blessed by having with us Elder Nuttall
and President Woodruff.
Sister Woodruff next addressed the con-
ference. Said she found the Saints here
about as they are in the north. Spoke in
regard to the building of the conjoint house
in Salt Lake City. Urged the sisters to
subscribe for the EXPONENT. Advised
mothers to look after their children and
train their daughters to do all kinds of
work.
Young ladies should attend the Relief
Society meetings and acquaint themselves
with the workings of the same. Relief
Society officers should consult and work
in harmony with their Bishops and Stake
officers and with the Stake Presidency.
The local organizations of the Stake,
which numbers twelve, were reported by
their respective presidents, with one or two
exceptions. All of them are doing a good
work and are desirous of improving.
Elder Nuttall said:  “It gives me
pleasure to visit again with you after an
absence of a little over a year. I can see
the advancement made by the sisters which
is very gratifying, though the average
attendance is not what it should be. The
sisters do not realize the privileges and
blessings of their membership in these
organizations or they would certainly be
more faithful in attending meetings. One
of the great objects of this organization is
that the members may train themselves and
become acquainted with the scriptures, that
they may be able to converse intelligently
with the Elders on Church matters, and be
qualified to teach the principles of the same
to their children. In connection with the
principles of the Gospel the sisters can ex-
change ideas about their household duties,
thereby aiding each other. Felt to thank
God that some of the branches were study-

[Column 2]
ing the articles of faith. If we work to
that end we can make the meetings just
what we want them to be. It is not only
a duty but a great privilege to assist with
our means in the carrying on of this work.
Teachers should visit with prayerful
hearts. Spoke of the storing of wheat.
Hoped we would continue testing the
methods of preserving wheat in this warm
climate. It has been made known to
prophets that a time of privation would
come upon the world and it is no more
than natural to suppose we will feel it.
President Young said he knew the breth-
ren would not store grain, but the sisters
would and we could depend upon them.
Conference adjourned until two p. m.
by singing and prayer.
Afternoon session met as per adjourn-
ment. Counselor Mary L. Ramsey was
the first speaker. She was thankful for
the visit of one of our brothers and sisters
from Salt Lake City. Said their visit was
greatly appreciated. If we get the spirit
of the work it is a pleasure for us to per-
form our duty. Asked God to bless us all
that we might be more diligent in per-
forming the labors assigned to us as
Relief Society members.
Sister Woodruff thought the organiza-
tion was greatly blessed in having the
Stake authorities sustain them by their
presence. Counseled mothers to teach
their children to pray as soon as they are
able to lisp a word; also to pay tithing. 
Control your children while young and
you will seldom have trouble with them
when thev grow older. Said it made no
difference to what position we are called so
long as we are working for the kingdom of
God.
Statistical and financial report of the
Stake was read by the secretary, Selina
Phillips.
President Layton made an illustration
of the sisters loaning wheat and urged
them to heed the counsel given by those in
authority in this regard.
The secretary presented the names of the
Stake and local officers, the names of Eliza
Nebeker and Virginia Major were added to
the list of the Stake aids, all being unani-
mously sustained in their respective posi-
tions.
President Andrew Kimball advised the
Stake officers to meet with each ward once
a month. Was pleased with the financial
status of the Relief Society, but there was
a falling away of the average attendance
which he was sorry to see.
Discouraged the storing of wheat in grist
mills, but rather, he said, build granaries
of your own for this purpose. “It is the
way we go to work whether our labor be-
comes a pleasure or a task. It is the duty
of officers to respect the priesthood at all
times, to counsel and advise with them in
all matters pertaining to the organization.
Elder Nuttall hoped we would remember
the points suggested by Sister Woodruff and
President Kimball. Gave some excellent
advice on the wiping out of iniquity, etc.,
said the sisters should uphold and sustain
the suffrage movement. This life is given
us that we may prepare for the future. We
have no right to judge the actions of our
brothers and sisters. This is God’s work
it is also ours. “May he bless you that
you may feel His power and influence in
the name of Jesus Christ, amen.”
President Layton was gratified with the
instructions given. Hoped all associa-

[Column 3]
tions would take to themselves that part
which is best adapted to them.
Conference adjourned for six months.


MRS. F. S. RICHARDS.
   Mrs. F. S. Richards, who went to Minn-
eapolis to attend the N-A. W. S. A. Con-
vention held in that city the week begin-
ning May 30, 1901, has returned home in
excellent health and spirits.   She enjoyed
meeting with Miss Susan B. Anthony,
Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, Mrs. Rachel
Foster Avery and other prominent suffrage
women, whom she had previously known.
  Mrs. Richard’s report of the work in 
Utah was very well received, in fact by
some of the ladies her report was said to
surpass that of other states. Mrs. Richards
was complimented by being placed on com-
mittees and was among the honored guests
at all the receptions, excursions and enter-
tainments planned for the distinguished
visitors.
   Miss Anthony and the other celebrated
ladies who were expected to be Mrs. Rich-
ards guests when returning from the Yel-
lowstone, will not come this way home,
which is a great disappointment. 
E. B. W.


DOMESTIC LIFE AND THE PROFESSIONS.

	Woman’s special work and mission is a
well-worn theme. Indeed it has been one
of the greatest problems of this generation;
and how well the 19th century has learned
its lesson is evidenced by the great army of
women we now find marching up the hill of
progress. And the ranks are being con-
stantly swollen by noble women who are
willing to give their lives for the amelior-
ation of the woes of humanity—as suffra-
gists, temperance workers and reformers,
doctors of divinity and medicine, lawyers,
legislators, State Senators, journalists,
school superintendents and teachers. It is
now a well established fact that these and
many other vocations are well suited to
woman’s capacity.
	But the question now propounded by
sociologists is, “How does the present
status effect women as home-makers?’’
	Some still maintain that home is her
sphere; and that she should never pass be-
yond its sacred shrine; that women are
totally unfit for professional or public duties,
unless it be spinsters, or childless married
women.
	As there are so many phases of life to-be
considered, is it not possible for us to strike
a happy medium by classifying woman’s
work, and considering individual circum-
stances and capabilities.
	I doubt if any true woman will gainsay
that “home is her heaven,’’ that her highest
and grandest sphere is that of wifehood and
motherhood. But is there not something
more she can do? Does not the very fact
of her being wife and mother constitute one
of her highest recommendations as a pro-
fessional woman? This woman in whom
the wifely devotion, the motherly
love, has fostered in her nature all that is
true and tender, all that is grand and ex-
alting. Those higher attributes that in-
stinctively yearn over the welfare of human-
ty, and exist from the very fact of her
having been a wife and mother.
	Emerson says: “A fair test and measure
of civilization is the influence of good
women. The woman’s cause is man’s;


[Column 1]
they rise or fall together, dwarfed or God-
like, bond or free.”  Since time immemor-
al women have been bread-winners, and
various have been the causes which have
forced them to gain their own livelihood,
and that of others dependent upon them;
and various have been the avenues to
Which they have had recourse.   So long as
woman’s ambition did not soar beyond that
of the household domestic, the seamstress
or washerwoman, little was thought or said
of her stepping beyond her province.  It
was all right for woman to be self-sustain-
ing so long as she did not work in the same
lines, nor receive the same wages for the
same work as her brothers.  For a long
time there was a struggle for the “survival
of the fittest,” but at present all true, just-
minded men and women seem willing to
concede to women equal rights, as far as
the labor question is concerned.  In those
professions where women are as well quali-
fied and efficient as men, they receive gener-
ally the same salaries. But the great ques-
tion seems to be centered on the influence it
has upon her home life, many declaring that
college graduates are disqualified as home-
makers.  They say that in nearly all cases
they marry late in life, and often not at all,
and often when they do marry, they are
not good wives and mothers.  As yet the
question is tentative, as it is only recently
that they have been granted the privilege
of equal opportunities in education and the
woman college graduate has yet to prove
her efficiency as a home-maker.
    But to the thinking mind, it would seem
that the sacred requirements of motherhood
would naturally demand all the advantages
of the highest education.  And if that girl
or woman has faithfully followed her col-
lege course day by day and year by year,
with patience and fortitude, ever with the
instinctive object uppermost in her heart of
making herself an honorable and useful
woman, who can gainsay that the knowl-
edge thus gained—the discipline of the
mind, the correct habits of thought and
action so long and patiently pursued, will
make her a better, a wiser and a more com-
petent wife and mother?
    By considering for a moment the causes
which lead women into the domain of pro-
fessional life, we find the causes of incen-
tives as varied as are the industries in
which she may engage.  It may at times
be a worldly, vain or inordinate ambition
that prompts her heroic efforts.  But could
we look within the soul and know the
spi[-]it promptings, we would, almost with-
out exception, find it is an innate knowl-
edge, a desire for more extended usefulness,
or, perchance, dire necessity that urges her
into the professional field of labor.  Often-
times it is this very mother-love that is the
well-spring of the very act that is said to
disqualify her for these sacred duties.
    Oh, the work and struggle of these
mothers—first that their children might be,
and then that they may continue to be!
Do we not find this condition throughout
all the regions of civilization?  Women as

[Column 2]
widows, women separated from their hus-
bands from various causes, and almost in-
variably the children cling to the mother
and she must be the main prop and stay.
Then shall woman regulate her activities to
routine drudgery, when she is capable of
better things?  When by more intelligently
directing her energies she can accomplish
more for her children than by remaining
constantly beneath the portals of her own
home?  And it stands without argument that
mothers as typewriters, school teachers, or
even as lawyers and doctors, can do more
for their children than those who work from
sun to sun in other ways, for half the re-
muneration.
    True, it might well be said, that the
proper order of things should be for the
father to be the bread-winner, and the
mother the home-maker; for the ideal home
is consecrated by both paternal and maternal
love, and its sweetest music the prattle of
little children. But inscrutable are life’s
experiences!  Oftentimes woman must
meet the exigencies of the case alone and
unaided, she must do and dare, lift the
burden and look to heaven for strength and
light and wisdom.  The true womanly
woman will make the best wife, and, mother,
whate’er may be her vocation.

         “We need not wealth or splendor,
	    Wide hall nor lordly dome; 
	  The good, the true, the tender—
	    These form the wealth of home.”

    What we most need are broad-minded.
women who love their husbands and their
children, those who know and love duty.
Such women will perform faithfully their
duty nearest them.  Such women, even in
professional life, when by necessity they
earn a livelihood, will devote more time
and careful thought to their families than
the unprincipled woman who has wealth
and all her time at her disposal.  “The
greatest boon, the deepest tenderness a wife
and mother can bestow is to help her loved
ones to their duty.”  ’Tis the mother’s
gentle hand that twines and weaves the
roses of life into existence.

	  Oft we ask ourselves the question, 
	     What is best for us to do,—
	  What soul-work or hand vocatton,
	     Best for women to pursue ?

	  Shall we be the dolls of fashion,
	     Loved and flattered for awhile,
	  Wither ’neath man’s sterner passion,
	     Live again in fonder smile?

	  Shall we live for vain ambition,
	     Live for friends of wealth and power, 
	  Feast on words of adulation.
	     On the friendship of an hour ?

    	  Shall we live for public duties, 
	     To reform the low and vile,
	  Cultivate angelic beauties,
	      In those minds now filled with guile?

	  Shall we live for home’s fair altar,
	     Ne’er to pass beyond its shrine,
	  In this purpose never falter,
	      Let all thoughts around it twine ?

	  To these queries what’s the answer ?
	     Duty! Duty seems to call;
	  Let all thoughts and feelings center,
	     On stern duty first of all.

[Column 3]
	  Know it, love it, act it bravely,
	      Whereso’er the path may lead;
For ’twill bring most perfect pleasure.
	     And at last the richest meed.
					    ELLIS R. SHIPP.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
much as possible for you money.	TRY US.

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank n Utah.
Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts.
The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open 
one NOW
We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said
interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired. 
LORENZO SNOW, Prest. 
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

The Most Convenient Local Train Service
in the State is given by the .....
Oregon Short Line
Railroad
FIVE Fast Daily Trains Each Way between.
Salt Lake City and Ogden.....
Se that your tickets read via the
"SHORT LINE” 
And Get the best

CITY TICKET OFFICE for tickets to all points, 100 West
Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.
- 
[Column 1]
S. W. Eccles
Gen Tfc. Mgr.

[Column Two]
D. E. Burley
G. P. & T. A.


Mrs. McKinley celebrated her fifty-fourth
birthday on June 8. Flowers, gifts and
remembrances were sent to her from all
over the country.
Rev. Anna H. Shaw has been invited by
Prof. Ward and Mrs. L. A. Coonley Ward,
of Chicago, to accompany them on a trip to
the Sandwich Islands.


Woman’s Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation
Vol. 30     SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY, 1901.         No. 2


CONTENTS.
The Daughters of the Pioneers,..Susa Y. Gates	9
Autobiography of Sarah B. Layton..................	10
Jordan Stake R. S. and P. A. Report.E Gardner	10
Letter from Canada.......................Susan Grant	11
The King’s Daughters.......................................	11
Now is the Time................................................	11
New Organization........................Luella Hasty	14
Celebration Anniversary............Alice M. Card	14
R. S. and P. A. Reports......................................	14
Notes and News.................................................	16

EDITORIAL—Woman’s Building....................	12
Old Folks’ Day...................................................	12
Hurry, Wear and Tear.........................................	12
About Art...........................................................	12
Mrs. Harrington’s Party.....................................	13
Visit of Mrs, Sewall...........................................	13
Editorial Notes...................................................	13

POETRY—June..............Emma A. McCracken	9
A Century Poem, 1901..........Emily B. Spencer	11


JUNE.
BY EMMA A. M’CRACKEN.
We walked through a fragrant moonlit way, 
My love and I, in the sweet June weather.
The eyes of the flowers that watched the day
Had folded their dewy lids together;
And the noise of the day, its toil and strife,
The calm of the night had caused to cease,
All the earth seemed living a dreaming life,
And into my life stole its perfect peace.

My love bent down his stately head 
And whispered too low for the flowers to hear,
’Twas but one word; yet my cheek grew red,
And my heart’s quick throbs I could almost
hear.
’Twas the one word “Darling !’’ yet by it I knew
The best of life that a woman knows;
And the silence echoed it through and through,
From the stars in the sky e’en down to the rose.

When again June blossoms their fragrance shed,
My love and I by the altar stood.
When the words that made us one had been said,
My love spoke low, but I understood;
And with that “Darling !” a vision blest
Of the coming years stretched long and fair;
And my tremulous heart found perfect rest,—
For peace had taken its dwelling there.

But when another June time came, 
I cannot tell if the world were fair;
For my love and I and one whose name
E’en brought a chill to the summer air,
Walked slowly down to a darkling tide,
Where “Darling !” I heard with my love’s last 
breath;
And there I knew our ways must divide;-—
I must walk alone while he crossed with Death !

And when on his mute lips my kisses fell,
I whispered low one single word;
Yet I gave him back his last farewell—
And I think that surely his soul must have
heard.
Now I calmly wait through the Junes that are
For a brighter June that is yet to be, 
When into those mansions that lie afar.
With ‘Darling !’’ my love shall welcome me.


[Column One]
TO THE DAUGHTERS OF THE PIONEERS.
My Dear Friends and Companions:

I am not able to meet you today, nor
have I been so at any of your meetings.
But in sympathy and feeling I have been
with you each time, and because of this
continued absence I have taken the liberty
of speaking to you on paper.
Many people have noted the inception of
this society with varied emotions—curios-
ity, interest, envy, hope—all these may

[Column 2]
have arisen in different hearts as they read
about your sayings and doings.
It is meet and proper that the daughters
of the men and women who struggled and
wept, prayed and toiled to find and people
these valleys should band themselves to-
gether.
For what purpose ?
For what indeed ! I have read your
constitution and noted the objects named
therein as the cogent reasons for your ex-
istence as a body. They were good and
they were desirable. Yet I fancied I read
between the lines a deeper reason, a truer
purpose than was there expressed.
The aristocracy of the old world long
ago perceiving that true nobility meant
service, the true, intelligent service of the
strong for the weak, wrote upon their ban-
ner a significant sentence, “Noblesse
oblige.” Translated it reads, “Much is
rightly expected of one of high birth or
station.”
When a noble youth, was led to do an
gnoble or a dishonorable act, his eyes
would be turned to the banner upon the
wall and his repentance was usually swift
and lasting. It is that thought all the way
down the line of life which has given to us
the culture, the gentle breeding which
graces the highest and best society of
today. Some of it is sham and pretence,
no doubt, but men and women must either
be or pretend to be noble, unselfish and
gently thoughtful of others if they would
mingle in high society.
This, then, of you must be required,
this and much more. For you are, as it
were, setting yourselves aside as a class,
and, therefore, not only the standard of the
world for its gentle, born and bred must be
applied to you, but a higher standard still
the standard of the Pioneers, the Gospel
standard itself.
Shrink not at these words, lest there be
those among you who are not of my faith
the Gospel is so broad, so beautiful that its
wings fold themselves lovingly about every
child of earth. And by its light, I shall
say nothing that can wound any heart or
which could not be accepted by any good
man or woman.
There is, then, a higher standard. That
of Christ. If any among you would be
great, let him be least and the servants of
all.
There be those whose parents came later
than your chosen time limit many of
these are equally worthy with yourselves.
For God hath not designed that all His
great ones shall do great work in this
world. This, however, is beyond your
power to remedy, and your time limit
seems fitly chosen.
But with thousands of my brothers and
sisters, I ask myself, what is the full pur-
pose of this society?
Through the lines of your preamble, I
read these beautiful words: Loving, Loyal
Service !
Help for the weak, succor for the poor,
aid to the struggling and peace for the
tried and tempted.
I can see your fathers and mothers,

[Column 3]
yours and mine dear friends—halting upon
a barren waste, planting, plowing, irrigat-
ing, sowing, reaping, building, washing,
baking, weaving and spinning as the rapid
days go on. And what was the special
mission of those men and women who
came prior to 1850. To plant and to reap—
for whom ? For those who were to come
after ! To build and to fashion, to make
and mend, to spin and to weave—for whom?
For the weaker ones who were left behind,
who came after to scrimp and save, to bur-
row and lend, to gather up teams and
wagons, money and provisions—what for ?
To send for those who were weaker and
poorer and therefore left behind.
There was no one who arose and said,
“Congratulate me, for I am a Pioneer of
the great Pioneers!” But the thought in
the heart was, “God has sent me because I
am strong and can work hard and long to
prepare a place for others to share who
come after me!”
We daughters have no need to spin and
weave, to milk and to churn, to toil and
to struggle; our fathers and our mothers,
Heaven bless them forever, planted the
roses for the beds of ease upon which our
bodies now repose. Their hands were torn
and lacerated with the thorns and stings as
they planted so unselfishly for us. But
they have bequeathed to us a legacy. Do
you know it?
Most of those mighty souls, our fathers
and mothers, lie with their faces to the sun
and the green earth over their breasts. But if
they were here today, and could speak to
you, what would their dear lips say ? “Re-
member, O, my daughters, that for which
we labored, suffered and died! To do
service to God and to all mankind.”
That is their message!
To be known for loving humility, for
patient endurance, for constant helpfulness!
To frown upon sin and deceit, to dis-
courage vanity, extravagance, highminded-
ness and all other worldliness. Not to be
pointed out as the richly-dressed, proudly
going daughters of the Pioneers, but to be
thought of as the gentle-spoken, quietly-
clad, meek daughters of the great men and
women who gave all loving service to
Utah. To seek out the newly arrived
emigrant, the struggling orphan, the op-
pressed widow and to offer help and succor;
this is the service of the true daughters of
the Pioneers.
To be loyal, true, faithful and fond, this
is what I read between the lines of your
Constitution. As I so read it, I join you in
all humility and strike hands with each one
of you, true Daughters of the Pioneers.

SUSA YOUNG GATES


Mrs. Pearl Young and Mrs. Estelia
Truenell, of New York, have proclaimed
the incorporation of a billion dollar mining
company with themselves as the probable
heads and the certain establishers and
promoters. The name of the new concern
is the Queen Mining Company, and it has
been incorporated in Pierre, S. D., with a
putative capital of $1,000,000,000.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SARAH B. LAYTON.

(Continued.)

In January, 1877, my son, E. W. Lay-
ton, married Ellen Colemere. In 1882, on
the 21st of December, Sarah Elizabeth,
was married to Levi Taylor, Jr. June,
1883, Brother Layton was called to go to
Arizona to preside over the St. Joseph
Stake. He took Elizabeth Williams Lay-
ton with him, his last wife. For some
time his health improved. My son, E. W.
Layton, also went to Arizona.
In June, 1884, Ann H. left the office and
on August 27 married Seth C. Jones, the
ceremony being performed in the Logan
Temple. The other four before mentioned
were married in the Endowment House in
Salt Lake City. In September of that
year death visited my family and took my
oldest son, Hyrum, rheumatism of the heart
being the cause. All the trouble that I
had endured seemed as nothing when com-
pared with what I had to go through at
that time. I was almost alone with him
when he passed away. I felt that if it
could be I would gladly follow him, but
my Father in heaven willed it otherwise
and I tried to be reconciled to the situation.
One night about three weeks before his
death I was lying in bed looking out of the
door, when all at once I heard a voice re-
peat these words as plainly as I ever heard 
any thing: “In six troubles I have been
with you and in the seventh I will not for-
sake you.” I did not know what to think
of it. I had had six children, and I knew
that the Lord had watched over me, and
had raised me from the very jaws of death
when several of them were born, but what
the seventh was to be I knew not; and for
days I could not get it off my mind.
One day my grandson came and told me
that his father was sick with the rheuma-
tism. I told him that if his father grew
worse that he should let me know, and I
would go out to him. I did not hear any-
thing more, and thought he was getting
better. But one morning I felt impressed
to go out to him. I was so strongly im-
pressed that I said I would go if I had to
walk. In a short time one of the boys
came up with a team from the farm. I told
him that I must go out and see Hyrum,
and he said that the team would run away
if they got the chance, but I was welcome
to it if I dared take it. I asked the Lord
to preserve us and we went. Lucy went
in with me to bring the team back.
When I arrived there I found him asleep.
His wife told me that he had watched the
trains for several days to see if I would not
come, and that morning when I did not
come he cried until he went to sleep. That
hurt me to think that I had neglected him,
though I did not know that he was so bad,
and I thought I was needed at home with
my daughter, who was at home and in bed
with a child. 
When he awoke he asked me why I did
not come before, but I told him that I did
not know that lie was worse, as I had not
heard from him. I did not leave him
again, but did everything that I could. But
the pain seemed to gather around his heart,
and I knew that it would go hard with
him. He lived eleven days after I arrived,
but in all that time I never once thought of
words I had heard some time before. At
the end of that time he passed away, and
then those words came to me as they had
before. Had it not been for that promise I
do not know how I could have kept up,

[Column 2]
had I.not had so much confidence in the
promises of the Lord. He was a kind son,
loving and charitable, the best he had was
not too good for any one in distress. He
was not very religious, but tried to do unto
others as he would have them do unto him.
I have known him to go miles through
storms to take food and fuel to the needy.
At his death he left a wife and six chil-
dren, two boys and four girls. His oldest
daughter died July 3, 1889, aged twelve
years, ten months and thirteen days. The
others are scattered around the country
now.
It is hard to part with loved ones, but
parting comes to all; and when the fond
mother lays her darling one down, though
others may be added to her arms, they can-
not fill the vacant place; nor can it be filled
until the resurrection when all will be re-
stored.
Three weeks before Brother Layton
started for Arizona, while talking with
Hyrum he said: “Hyrum, my boy, I feel
that you and I will never meet again in
this life. If we do not, be a good boy and
all will be well with you.”
In July I asked him to come to Kaysville
to spend my birthday with me. He said
he was very busy preparing for harvesting;
he said that I would have many more such
ocasions. I have, but he did not live to
see another. The day he died his father,
was traveling in Arizona and said to his
traveling companion that something was
wrong with some of his family in Utah. “I
feel that something is wrong with my son
Hyrum.” He said he had felt it all day.
The first thing to meet him on arriving
home was a telegram saying that Hyriim
was dead. Hyrum was a great favorite
with his father and it was a hard blow to
him.
In about three weeks my son, E. W.
Layton, returned from Arizona with his
family. He was unwell and that grieved
me. Grief and sorrow have been frequent
callers on me all my life, but through all
my heavenly Father has been mindful of
me and has strengthened me. I have al-
ways had a desire to hold on to the truth,
and live above reproach and set an example
worthy of imitation. I have sometimes
thought that I chose the thorny path before
came here and have had to walk in it. I
am thankful, however, that I, like many
others, have not tallen by the wav side, and
gone into darkness and I pray that I, like
Paul, may exclaim: “I have fought the
good fight, I have finished my course and
kept the faith,” and then all will be well.
When it has seemed that there was no
hope for me tilings have turned and my
life has been spared and I trust for good, as
that has been mv whole object in life.
We do not always see the result im-
mediately after doing a good act. It will
be like the bread cast upon the waters, it
will be seen after many days. I have the
consolation of knowing that I have done
some good in the world, but might have
done more if it had been my good fortune 
to have received an education. I never
had an opportunity for gaining knowledge
from books, so have had to suffer for my
ignorance in that line, and pick up through
life the best I could. I have gone along,
although many times it has been a great
trouble to me.
For many years the labor of my hands
and the blessing of health have been the
means of support. Much of my trouble
has been caused through misrepresentation

[Column 3]

by those who should have been my best
friends. I have proved many times that a
false friend is far worse than an open
enemy. But I can say truly that no
weapon that has been formed against me
has ever prospered, and I am patiently
waiting for the lime when in judgment I
shall condemn them. This is the promise
of the Lord.
In October, 1897, Brother Franklin D.
Richards and wife came and ate dinner
with me. He was asking me about
Brother Layton, and told me when I wrote
to him to send his love to him and his
family there. I told him that I would
when I wrote.
(To be continued.)


JORDAN STAKE R, S. AND P. A. REPORTS.
	The quarterly Relief Society conference
of the Jordan Stake convened in the South
Jordan Ward meeting house, at 10:30 a
m., President Marinda Bateman presiding.
	After singing by the choir and congre-
gation, prayer was offered by Brother Jesse
Vincent. Eleven branches were represented
by presiding officers. All were reported
as being in a very good condition.
	Sisters Stevenson and Caine occupied the
forenoon, giving instructions and en-
couragement to the society. Spoke very
strongly on storing wheat and gave in-
structions as to its use and care. At the
close, of the forenoon meeting a very nice
picnic was partaken of.
	In the afternoon a few of the brethren
who were present gave very good instruc-
tions, as did also Sisters Bateman, Cutler
and Larson, after which Sisters Stevenson
and Caine explained to the sisters about the
Central Building and admonished every
society to contribute towards its erection.
	Good music was rendered by the choir.
				E. GARDNER, Sec.

	The annual conference of the Primary
Association of the Jordan Stake was held
at Sandy, June 20th, 1901, meetings at 10
and 2 o’clock. There were present Sister
Lillie T. Freeze, of the General Board of
the Primary, and many of the Stake officers
and Bishops, and about eight hundred
Primary officers and children. Two inter-
esting meetings were held and the pro-
gram of songs, class and kindergarten
exercises and concert recitations were
rendered beautifully by the children, show-
ing that much time had been spent by the
officers in preparing the various numbers.
A special feature was the beautiful singing
of the old, well known hymns by the chil-
dren and this called forth much appreci-
ation from the visitors present. Sister
Lillie T. Freeze gave some good instruc-
tions and encouragement to the conference,
also President Emma C. Burgon, Sister
Hilda H. Larsen, Bishops Kuhre and Bur-
gon and others.
	In the afternoon the officers of the Gener-
al Board and Stake Board were presented
and unanimously sustained. A general
time of rejoicing was enjoyed by all present.
		LUCY M. H. GREEN, Sec.


The “new woman” does not frighten
Archbishop Ireland. He says: “I believe
in the intellectual woman. While women’s
interest should be primarily in the home,
there is no reason why it should be con-
fined there. It is folly to belittle women’s
influence today, for it is widespread.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
A CENTURY POEM, 1901.
BY EMILY B. SPENCER.

Far out on the ocean’s waste
Where the dreamy Pacific lies, 
A century faded away,
A century falls and dies,
A century passed in silence
Save the ocean’s ceaseless chime,
With none to note it vanish,
As it sank ’neath the doom of Time.
And no one knelled the parting,
Where the stars reflected shine.
A moment—the century closes!
A moment—and it is gone!
But the beating of Time’s pulses
Was calm as it went on, 
The sighs of winds at midnight,
The murmur of the waves,
Was the requiem for its dying,
As it sank to the centuries’ graves,
Far out on the slumbering waves,
Where the dreamy Pacific lies.
This century made its advent
As the old, old century dies,
A century came with gladness,
But no one was along
To shout its coming brightness,
Or raise a joyful song.
For the blessings it will bring us,
The righting of many a wrong,
Of promises fulfilling,
As Old Time sweeps along. 
Far out on the ocean waves,
A century comes with glee,
The beautiful stars are shining,
And smile their fealty.
No human eye is keeping
A watch in that lonesome place,
While moment by moment ’tis gaining
In the hundred years’ coming race,
As it rises on the ocean, 
In beauty and in grace,
Where are the busy mortals,
Each in their dwelling place?
They wait its slow appearing,
Nor feel its rising power; 
To them a century’s closing,
With every parting hour,
For while it came in darkness,
So far away at sea,
The world had not a knowledge, 
Of the lovely mystery;
For some were just retiring
For a night of solemn sleep, 
While the century is coming
Across the mighty deep.
In India evening shadows
Were stealing o’er the land,
The heated air is cooling,
By gentle breezes fanned;
In England’s far-famed island,
The chimes are ringing noon,
While storms that surging o’er it
Are not abated soon.
They heed not murmuring ocean,
Proclaim, ‘The Century’s here!
O, Nations! heed my voicing
And greet the glad New Year!”
America’s fair cities,
By the ocean’s eastern tide,
Are bathed in morning splendor,
In their beauty and their pride,
While the century’s birth’s away,
Unkept in the water’s waste,
Unheralded by mortals,
No joy its birth-place graced.
By the lovely lakes so blue,
Like inland seas so large,
The faint dawn o’er them creeping,
Disclosed each sailing barge,
While Pacific waters murmur,
The century comes to me;
Be careful of your blessings,
In the homes of people free,
’Neath the grand old mountain shadows,
We slumbered ere the morn,
No voice had round us thundered,
“The century is born!”
Long hours of day were for us,
And hours of night as well.
Ere we could greet in gladness,
The mystic century’s spell;
But now we hail the New Year,
We cheer the century born,
It bringeth us glad tidings
Of wonders ’twill perform;
The century’s dawning, welcome
By song, and prayer and praise
For the glory of its coming,
For the promise of its days.
As the century came in silence,

[Column 2]
In the midst of the dark, deep sea,
We meet it now with gladness,
In the land of liberty.
Cannonville, Utah, Dec. 30, 1901.


LETTER FROM CANADA. 
			Cardston, Canada.
Mrs. E. B. Wells:
	Many thanks, dear sister, for your ex-
pressions of love and good wishes for my
health and ability to perform the mission
whereunto I have been called. Our
Heavenly Father has been very kind to us.
We have been blest with good health since
leaving our homes, for which I feel very
grateful. And the Saints in this land have
shown us every kindness, and seemed to be
satisfied with our efforts and desires to do
them good. The Lord has never forsaken us
in time of need. Blessed be His Holy Name.
	Yesterday we were all celebrating
“Dominion Day.” Today is “Cardston
Day,” in which they are celebrating their
incorporation as a town. Many fine
speeches were given this forenoon. Among
the best was one from Mrs. Zina Y. Card.
	President Card left here yesterday to
meet Aunt Zina D. H. Young, and to
attend the funeral today at 11 a. m., at
Magrath, of President Orson Woolley’s
son, a young man grown. President Card
and party from Utah are expected in the
afternoon.
	Tomorrow morning very early we ex-
pect to fill some more appointments in
company with Sister Woolley and Apostle
Cowley, who has been giving us some very
fine discourses during the Stake conference
just closed.
	We have had so much rain since coming
to Canada that it has somewhat interfered
with our traveling around, but we expect
to keep at it until we see all of the settle-
ments.
	I will now close and tell you the rest
when we meet. Zina and daughter join
me in much love to you. Sister Richards
has been at Magrath since Sunday evening.
	Now, dear sister, may you be abundant-
ly blest with health and every good thing
you desire, is the wish of,
				Yours lovingly,
					SUSAN GRANT.


THE KING’S DAUGHTERS.
	Mrs. Margaret Bottome, at whose house
the first ten of King’s Daughters was or-
ganized in 1866, is still the president of the
order, which has grown until it has spread
over North and South America, Great
Britain, Germany, France, Italy, Greece,
Switzerland, Denmark, Turkey, India,
China, Japan, Australia, New Zealand, the
Hawaiian Islands, the Bermudas and
Bahamas. There are also circles in Pales-
tine and Smyrna. It is estimated that
700,000 members are enrolled, says the N.
Y. Sun.
	At first the bands were called tens, but
the tens had such a way of bursting the
bonds of a fixed number that the word
circle was substituted and it was allowed to
expand or shrink to suit the individual
cases.
	These circles have each its own name,
and they do all sorts of things. A circle
of poor working girls in Chicago, who had
neither money nor time with which to ac-
complish much, finally decided that there


was one thing they could do. They could
look out for banana peel, orange skin, or 
any of the deadly, slippery things which
are a trap for the unwary. They could
kick or throw these dangerous bits of fruit
into the gutter, where they would do no
harm.
	They figured that by strict attention to
business they would save perhaps half a
dozen persons from sprains or broken bones
in the course of a month or two, which
would be perhaps quite as good as leaving
the peelings to cause accidents and then
having the victims taken care of in a hos-
pital.
	Other circles undertake more pretentious
work. Scattered all over the country are
very substantial results in the shape of
hospitals, homes, day nurseries and asy-
lums. The Silver Cross Hospital, a large
stone building at Joliet, Ill; a Children’s
Home at Tampa; one at Mount Carmel,
Ct.; a Rest Cottage at Louisville; a King’s
Daughters’ House at Hempstead, L. I.,
and a hospital at Jamaica; rest cottages
and hospitals in Massachusetts; St. Christo-
pher’s Home at Dobbs’ Ferry, where 150
children are cared for; a home for epileptics
in Maryland; a summer camp for boys, a
babies’ camp at Plainfield: a drinking
fountain at Lestershire, N. Y.; the chil-
drens’ ward in St. John’s Hospital, Brook-
lyn—these are a few of the examples of,
work done by the King’s Daughters.


NOW IS THE TIME.
	Attention is directed to the announce-
ment of Lorenzo Snow and Joseph F. Smith
of the donation of a valuable piece of
property facing the Salt Lake Temple, on
which to erect a building devoted to the
interests of the Relief Society, Mutual Im
provement Association and Primary Asso-
ciation, making it in all respects a woman’s
building for Church auxiliary purposes.
The situation of the real estate thus appro-
priated renders it not only of great pecu-
niary value, but of such surroundings as
will make it attractive to all who are con-
nected with these Church institutions.
The sisters are bestirring themselves to ob-
tain the necessary funds among these
societies for the erection of a building suit-
able to them all. It is a work worthy of
their energies, and we are sure that with
the devotion and earnestness which attends
all their labors, they will succeed in accom-
plishing the end they have in view. The
Deseret News cordially supports the move-
ment and now urges upon the people, young
and old to aid as far as they possibly can in
the construction of this woman’s building
so that it may stand as a monument of the
faith and works of the women and children
in the Church, such as will not only attest
their interest in the work of salvation and
elevation of mankind, but be eminently
useful to them in the special work entrusted
to those associations. Do what you can,
and do it at once!—Deseret News.


A Kindergarten Convocation will be-
held at Westminister Church, Buffalo, N.
Y., on July 1, 2 and 3.
	Queen Helena, of Italy, has received
from her husband, King Victor Emanuel
III., a compliment never before paid to
any queen consort. He has decreed that
her head, not his, shall appear on the new
Italian postage stamps.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	dvertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal di-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah at
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY, 1901.


WOMAN'S BUILDING.
	Feeling the necessity of a Central
Woman’s Building, the Relief Society,
Young Ladies’ Mutual Improvement Asso-
ciation and Primary Association have
joined forces for the purposes of erecting
one in Salt Lake City.
	We commend the undertaking and have
contributed a valuable building site opposite
the Temple, valued at $18,000.
LORENZO SNOW.
JOSEPH F. SMITH.


[Column 1]
OLD FOLKS’ DAY.
PRESIDENT SNOW’S ADDRESS READ BY
HIS SON, LE ROI C. SNOW.
	My brethren and sisters and dear friends,
am delighted to be with you on this hap-
py occasion. I feel that I am in the pres-
ence of men and women who are distin-
guished, not alone for the many years they
have lived among us, but for their purity
of life, their strength of character, their ex-
emplary habits, and above all, for their un-
wavering integrity to God. I congratu-
late you all on having lived so long and so
worthily upon the earth. Like myself,
you have been in this stage of action quite
a few years, and I am satisfied that the
Lord has had His eye over you for good.
certainly acknowledge His hand in the
preservation of my life up to the present
time. I am now in my eighty-eighth year,
and I know it is through the mercy and
blessing of God that I am here today,
privileged to join with you in this unique
gathering.
	These Old Folks’ excursions are aus-
picious and enjoyable events, and all who
are over seventy years of age look forward
to them, no doubt, with considerable
pleasure. They have become so celebrated
that their fame has spread abroad, and men
from afar have looked upon them with
commendation and have greatly admired
the motive which inspires them. They
furnish an example that could with profit
be followed by other communities in the
world, for they are the legitimate fruits of
a spirit and sentiment that should prevail
aniong all people, bespeaking the brother-
hood of man and the fatherhood of God.
These gatherings bear witness to the fact
that among the Latter-day Saints, at least
there is love and respect for the aged, and
a desire to bless and make them happy.
This feeling so manifested cannot help but
command the admiration of all honorable

[Colmun 2]
men and women, and it certainly is pleas-
ing to our Father in heaven, whose sons
and daughters we are; and He will most
surely bless all those who labor so unsel-
fishly and indefatigably to make these an-
nual outings a success.
	It is truly gratifying to see so many
“old folks" among us. Perhaps in no
other part of the world are there so many
aged ones, in proportion to the population,
as can be found in Utah. I regard this as
due to the observance by the people of
those wholesome, health-giving laws which
the Lord has given for our guidance in the
care of our bodies supplemented by His
divine favor towards us. Among us, I am
happy to say, old age is honorable, and re-
garded as a blessing from the Lord. It is
our duty to desire to live long upon the
earth, that we may do as much good as we
possibly can. I esteem it a great privilege
to have the opportunity of living in
mortality. The Lord has sent us here
for a wise and glorious purpose and it
should be our business to find out what
that purpose is, and then order our lives
accordingly.
******
	A few day ago I was at a large gather-
ing in this magnificent pavilion, of
Primary children, and had a very happy
time with them. They were children who
are on the threshold of life, and the ques-
tion of whether or no they will faithfully
carry out the object of their existence and
be true to God cannot yet be answered; but
here is a body of men and women who are
so far advanced in life as to be nearing the
end, and who have lived such lives of
faithfulness and devotion that it may truly
be said of them that, they have carried out
the purpose of their existence here and
their ultimate success is assured. I rejoice
with you in the fact that after all these
years you are still journeying on the road
to exaltation and eternal life. I know that
your lives have not been all sunshine; you
have doubtless passed through many a
trial, and perhaps have come up through
much tribulation; but by continued integ-
rity you will soon emerge from the shad-
ows into the glorious sunshine of the
celestial world.
******


[Column 1]
HURRY, WEAR AND TEAR. 
	The startling progress of the present day
along many lines, both of thought and of
activity, keeps one constantly on the qui
vive to be at all posted in the world’s great
undertakings. One who would keep
abreast of the times must even think rapid-
ly, or be left behind. There seems to be
every facility for rapid motion in traveling,
etc., quick connections in communication,
the telegraph and telephone to convey ideas
the world over almost, but the individual
brain must still do the thinking and plan-
ning, and it is this hurry of thinking that
is making such headlong rush that it is no
wonder insanity is on the increase.
	It would be a good thing to slow up now
and then, better than to push onward and
finally plunge headlong into the madden-
ing scheme, that may end in paralysis or
prostration of the nervous forces.
	Perhaps Americans are too ambitious,
they have so much vital energy that they
spend it freely, but to prolong human life
is one of the principles taught by the
Prophet Joseph Smith and others of our


[Column 2]
wise men, and in order to do so one must
obey the laws of nature, the higher laws
taught by revelation to the Latter-day
Saints.
	Very few people really abide by the regu-
lations they know to be advantageous to
life and health, but promise themselves,
perchance, that bye and bye they’ll take
the much-needed rest.
	There really seems more to do than ever
before and yet there are so many inventions
to lessen work that it is a problem how there
can be more to do, and one cannot help
feeling that it is not only a problem no one
seems able to solve, but it is positively a
mystery.
	At any rate the facts remain the same,
and everybody complains, almost without
exception, of being overworked. Is it be-
cause we require so much more than form-
erly to help us to live, or what is the rea-
son people are always in a hurry?
	There certainly are more amusements
than there used to be, and it is hard work
to go to places of recreation to be amused,
that is if one has to hurry to make the
time to go. Heber C. Kimball used to say
holidays were “hollow days,” and the
hardest days there were and the most
fatiguing; but some people do not take time
for simple recreation, and business men
nowadays really have not time to see their
families and get acquainted with their own
children.
	Where is the person who is to call a
halt?
	It is not a wholesome state of affairs, and
will not tend to a higher state of perfection.
And certainly in the hot weather the effect
of hurry will be dangerous. Men, and
women too, for that matter, rush to catch
trains, and to eat a lunch, if they have
any, and altogether, anyway, many people
are so anxious to get on in the world that
they forget or neglect all the little courte-
sies that were so charming in the ladies
and gentlemen of “the old school,” as it has
become customary to call the manners of
the long ago when the people had leisure.
	It is delightful to be surrounded with
wealth and able to gratify one’s taste in all
sorts of ways, but the multiplied of duties
and of work along so many lines hinders
even the enjoyment of wealth, and its ac-
cessories, and all this hinders the cultivation
of true politeness and refinement of senti-
ment and of soul and a kindliness of man-
ner, which is essential for those who are
aiming to reach a high standard of excel-
lence in all that pertains to the life here
upon the earth and the eternities here-
after.
	The Latter-day Saints should now and
then examine their own accounts not
financially, but generally, and compare
them with what the Lord has said in the
revelations given in the latter days and
see if they compare well with the written
instructions, and take care of the bodies
given them, and seek by all legitimate
means to preserve their health and strength,
that they may not come under condem-
nation for not taking care of their mortal
bodies.


ABOUT ART.
	There is, nowadays, a great deal of talk
about art, and it is an understood fact that
art enters into many things in life besides
pictures. Recently some facts about art
were given at the farewell meeting of
Sorosis in New York City that seem to ap-


[Column 1]
ply to women everywhere and are worth
quoting and considering.
	"Woman’s work in art dates as far back
as the first woman—prehistoric man de-
voted his entire energies to hunting animals
and destroying his neighbor. Prehistoric
women in the privacy of the domestic
cavern invented the arts of weaving and
pottery, which first rudely supplied the
needs of her housekeeping and later be-
came the medium through which her
awakening artistic sense could express
itself.
	Dr. Mason, of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, finds that the savage women have had
a large share in creating the aesthetic arts.
In painting, dyeing, molding, modelling,
weaving and embalming in the origination
first of geometric patterns and then of free-
hand drawing, savage women, prehistoric
women, have won their title to the highest
admiration.
	Modern woman as compared with her
savage sister labors under the handicap of
false ideals of art that have been created in
the intervening centuries. It is humiliat-
ing to be told, and to be compelled to be-
lieve, that there are points in which we are
inferior to prehistoric woman; but when
our general ideas are as just as were those
of our sisters of the primitive ages, we
shall have attained a sincerity and simplic-
ity of taste which will react favorably on
the entire art world.
	Another lady affirmed that art took in
the knitting of a stocking or the making of
a loaf of bread, as well as the painting of a
picture or the modelling of a bust. The
speaker gave it as her opinion that there
existed a far keener sense of the beautiful
in girls than in boys. It is the girl who
cares and craves for the flower garden; it is
the boy who heedlessly tramps over it; it is
the boy who stones the bird and crushes
the butterfly; it is the girl who picks up
the bright feathers or the butterfly’s broken
pinion and preserves it in her spelling
book. In the tenement houses it is the
woman who nurses the starving geranium
in the window; who tries for some sort of
decoration for her poor, plain life; who
works to get a little cheap trimming for
her baby’s clothes; who catches time here
and there to knit rude lace for her pillow
cases; whoever saw a man of that class
trying to ornament anything.”
	The art of architecture was also discussed
and woman in municipal art was another
branch of the art subject. The influence of
women in municipal art, the speaker be-
lieved, had come through their general
awakening of interest in civic life, and she
believed a practical point had been gained
by the admission of women to schools of
architecture in England and America. Al-
though the leading architects of great cities
hold the rules and the pencil, the women
of the municipality should urge the adopt-
tion of such forms of architecture as would
tend to the highest adornment of the city.
	One lady in summing up her remarks
said the whole art of life is to learn real
things from shams; to learn how to strip
the husks away and get at the kernel; how
to absorb that kernel in our own lives;
transform its energy by our own individu-
ality in the expression of ourselves in
terms of work and conduct. Recognizing
the art of life as the supreme art, she made
a plea for escape from the bondage of
material things with which we are threat-
ened. The machinery of existence, food

[Column 2]
and shelter and clothes, are no longer hum-
ble ministering to our comfort, but have be-
come tyrants over us.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MRS. HARRINGTON’S PARTY.
	On Thursday, June 18, 1901, a very
pleasant party was given, Mrs. Margaret
Y. Taylor being the guest of honor, at
the residence of her daughter, Mrs. Leonora
Taylor Harrington, who had spared no
pains in decorating and in procuring good
music for the occasion. The house was
beautiful in every detail and the perfume of
flowers inside and of the fruit blossoms out-
side, wafted in the open windows, was de-
lightful. It was one of those delicious
social events where the old friends meet
and talk over the incidents of the past, re-
calling former festivities when the country
was new and there were fewer luxuries.
	Brother Willie Clive played some of his
finest selections and his little son, Clifford,
who is a musical genius, gave us some ex-
quisite strains on the violin, and two or
three young ladies sang old fashioned
songs in the very best style, and Mrs.
Harrington and her coterie of young ladies
waited upon the guests with fruit punch
and lemonade and chatted merrily with the
“Aunties,” until dinner was announced
and the numerous company seated at the
tables. There were about fifty ladies
and one or two of Mrs. Taylor’s sons, the
eldest son, Ebenezer, asked the blessing.
Soon after President Joseph F. Smith
arrived, he had been unavoidably delayed.
	After the dinner was over and the guests
were seated in the parlors, the host,
Brother Harrington, made a few remark
in which he stated that it had been the in-
tention of himself and wife to have their
house dedicated and this seemed an appro-
priate time, and he then called upon Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith to make the dedi-
catory prayer. President Smith responded
and offered the prayer, which was also a
blessing upon the family for their further
prosperity and happiness, as well as the
preservation of their family from all harm,
evil and calamity.
	The evening was drawing near and the
guests one by one departed with fervent
good wishes and God bless the home and
its inmates, feeling refreshed in spirit and
gladdened by social interchange of thought
and conversation.
	Mrs. Harrington may count her mother’s
party a social success and one the friends of
her mother and herself will always remem-
ber with pleasure, and may she have many
more such hospitable gatherings during
her future life, and may her own life be as
sweet and enjoyable as she sought, to make
that day for her mother’s friends;


VISIT OF MRS. SEWALL.
	The anticipated visit of Mrs. May
Wright Sewall to this city is a great
pleasure to look forward to for those who
have had the pleasure of knowing her. We
feel sure that Mrs. Sewall will regret not
being able to see President Zina D. H.
Young, whom she met nearly nineteen
years ago in Omaha at the suffrage conven-
tion.
	Ever since that time both Aunt Zina and
the writer have talked of Mrs. Sewall visit-
ing Salt Lake City, and of what we would
do for her. President Taylor, President
Woodruff and President George Q. Cannon


have each been interviewed on this subject,
and she has so long delayed her coming
that many whom we expected her to meet
have gone from our midst, Sister Eliza R.
Snow, Sarah M. Kimball, Elizabeth How-
ard, President Daniel H. Wells and many
more, but we shall be proud to have her
meet our venerable and beloved president,
Lorenzo Snow, and we still have Sister
Horne with us and Sister Jane S. Richards,
both of whom she knows, and our dear
Sister Bathsheba, whom she has not yet
seen, with many younger women, who
will be glad to see and hear the president
of the Internatianal Council of Women.
	Mrs. Sewall is also famous as an educator
and is familiar with educational methods
and progress. Principal of a Girl’s Classic-
al School in Indianapolis, she has pupils
from all parts oi the United States under
her care and training. Her home life is
very sweet notwithstanding her numerous
duties and engagements. She enjoys social
functions and never neglects these duties if
it is possible to keep up with the many
calls upon her time.
	If it is possible for Mrs. Sewall to stay
here long enough to see the best points of
interest, and speak where all who desire
to can hear her, it will be a great satisfac-
tion to some of us who have been urging
her to come to Salt Lake for years.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder returned from
Europe in company with President Platte
D. Lyman and others, after having filled a
successful mission. She has had some in-
teresting experiences while laboring among
the people in London and that vicinity.
She will speak for herself through the
EXPONENT, later on. To us the missionary
work of the sisters is exceedingly interesting.
We are aware that in many instances our sis-
ters can reach people, especially among
their own sex, that would not listen to the
Elders. Sister Alder is in good spirits and
feeling well, except being a little fatigued
from the journey.
	President Emma S. Woodruff, of the
Granite Stake Relief Society, and a member
of the General Board, left here about the
middle of April on a mission to the Relief
Society of the Southern Stakes of Zion.
She traveled in company with Elder L.
John Nuttall, who was visiting Sabbath
Schools and attending S. S. conferences.
Sister Woodruff visited Snowflake, St.
John’s, St. Joseph and Maricopa in
Arizona, Juarez, Stakes and conferences
at Diaz, in Mexico, then San Luis Stake
in Colorado. She was absent two months
and accomplished much good among the
sisters in their organizations, speaking
publicly and giving such instructions on
all occasions as were suitable to the circum-
stances of the society wherever located.
Sister Woodruff enjoyed her trip very much
and although the journey was rather
fatiguing she is very glad she was able to
do this missionary work.
	We have had a pleasant call from Elder
Wm. J. Snow and wife who have just re-
turned from a mission in Brooklyn. Elder
Snow was President of the Brooklyn con-
ference in the Eastern States mission. He
was set apart to labor early in May, and
has been doing regular missionary work
until called home on account of the serious
illness of his mother, at Pinto, Sister


Snow has been present at eight baptisms,
six women and two men. She has spoken
to large audiences on the street, once in
Brooklyn, once at Harlem, New York,
has also spoken at several college meetings
in Boston and Newark, New Jersey and
in Brooklyn, and is, we think, the first
Latter-day Saint sister who has spoken on
the street in these cities or in the Eastern
mission. Sister Snow gave us some very
interesting items about the Relief Society
in Brooklyn, which is doing good work
and helping the mission very effectively, as
well as looking after the needy. We ex-
pect soon to have a report from the secre-
tary, Miss Isabelle Shaffer. Sister Snow
has greatly enjoyed her labors and seems
to have had the spirit of missionary work.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NEW ORGANIZATION. 
	Jay, Leavenworth Co., Kansas.
Sister E. B. Wells:
	According to appointment a meeting was
held for the purpose of organizing a
Relief Society at Jay, Leavenworth Co.,
Kansas, on June 17, 1901, President James
G. Duffin, of the Southwestern States
mission, presiding.
	After a few timely remarks the following
organization was effected and the officers
unanimously sustained: For president,
Mollie Stevens; counselors, Mary E.
Clinkenheard and Mary E. Hill; secretary,
Luella Hasty treasurer, Mary Adams.
	We would further say that we are en-
tirely inexperienced as far as Relief Society
work is concerned, and would be glad for
any advice you might have to offer and al-
so to know what is required of this organ-
zation, any information at any time will be
gladly received by us as we are desirous
of doing our duty. Hoping to hear from
you soon, we'are your sisters in the great
cause of truth.
			LUELLA HASTY, Sec. 
	June 26, 1901.


[Column 1]
NURSES CLASS.
	Closing exercises of the Relief Society
Nurses' Class, graduating Ma[-] 28, 1901,
taught by Dr. M. C. Roberts.
	Opening exercises, singing and prayer,
singing furnished by the Temple choir
quartette under the leadership of Prof. C.
J. Thomas. Prayer by Sister B. W.
Smith.
	President M. I. Horne made opening re-
marks giving Sister Roberts great credit
for the labor she had performed free of
charge and complimenting the graduating
class on their work and their pleasing ap-
pearance. "You will be rewarded for the
good you do. The Latter-day Saints are
not laboring for money alone. I feel to
bless you all as a mother in Israel, and ask
God to bless you in the name of Jesus."
	Another musical selection was given by
the quartette, "Who are these arrayed
in white." This was followed by the pre-
sentation of certificates of graduation to the
twenty-eight graduating nurses, who pre-
sented a very pleasing appearance in their
nurses' costume of blue and white, with
white aprons, caps and collars.
	This was followed by a very pleasing
address to the class by the doctor.
	Counselor Annie Taylor Hyde followed
in a happy address, and presented to Dr.
Roberts, in behalf of the Stake Board, a

[Column 2]
et of silver spoons, as a token of apprecia-
iation, though they felt that they could
not repay her for the noble work she had
done. She then presented a book, "Gems
of Art," to Prof. Jos. Nelson, who had
so kindly provided a room in the College
building for them to meet in.
	Miss Willey, in behalf of the class, pre-
sented Dr. Roberts with a dozen silver
oyster forks and a berry spoon with her
monogram.
	The recepients expressed their appecia-
ation in brief but feeling remarks."
	"Floating" was sung by the quartette.
	Superintendent Emma A. Empey, made
a few remarks, giving the former class
high praise for their work and hoping
that this graduating class might do as well,
and felt sure they would.
	Counselor Hyde then presented to the
superintendents, Mrs. Priscilla J. Riter
and Mrs. Emma A. Empey, written testi-
monials from the Stake presidency of the
Relief Society; she also announced that the
members of the class could come to the
Temple and be set apart for the work.
	Mrs. Riter spoke in thanks and en-
couragement to the nurses, and her re-
marks were much appreciated.
	Mrs. Empey expressed her thanks, say-
ing that she would appreciate the testimon-
ial more than a necklace of diamonds.
	Dr. Roberts asked that these testimonials
be read that all might have the pleasure of
hearing them. They were read by Sister
Augusta W. Grant.
	Mrs. Empey then asked the nurses to
report to her when ready for service, as she
had constant calls for nurses.
	It is understood that a new superinten-
dent will have to be obtained, as neither
Mrs. Empey nor Mrs. Riter will be able to
serve permanently, but will continue to act
for the present.
	Musical selection, "When the mists have
rolled away."
	Bishop Empey having come in he was
asked to make a few remarks and responded.
	President Horne called for a vote of
thanks to be given to the singers. Bene-
diction by Sister M. Y. Dougall.


[Column 1]
CELEBRATION ANNIVERSARY.
	The Relief Society of Chesterfield,
Idaho, celebrated March 17, 1901, by hold-
ing a fast meeting, President Columbia F.
Loveland presiding. Singing, “We thank
Thee, O God, for a prophet.” Prayer by
Bishop J. A. Toleman. Singing, “Mid
scenes of confusion.” Roll was called and
minutes of March 17, 1900, were read.
	President Loveland hoped all the sisters
would bear their testimonies. She knew
this was the true Church, if she did not,
she did not think she would have much to
live for. Spoke about laying away two of
our sisters since our last memorial day.
	Counselor Alice Yancey thought it our
duty to bear our testimonies, thought if we
would do our duty God would bless us.
Hoped we would love one another.
	Counselor Ann Sessions thought we were
blest in having the priesthood with us, also
thought we were a blest lot of sisters.
	Stake President Mary A. Call said it
seemed but yesterday we held our last
meeting, but still a year had gone. She
wondered if we had accomplished anything.
Said “Let us be better mothers and sisters
honor the priesthood and our Bishop. Said
this was a day that had been set apart for

[Column 2]
the Relief Society, hoped all the sisters
would be willing to pay their ten cents to
help roll on this work, not only in this
land, but all over the world.
	Sister Mary V. Muir knew the Lord
would bless us by fasting and praying to
Him, thought we ought to sustain our
president by coming out to meeting.
	Sisters Elizabeth Loveland and Ruth
Davies bore their testimonies, also felt like
doing their duty.
	The secretary then read from the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT a letter entitled, “A
Word of Love and Greeting,” from the 
General Board.
	Sisters Ada Loveland and Rhoda Moss
thought there was a little improvement,
but there was still room for more. Felt
like doing their duty.
	Sisters Mary A. Toleman and Rosette
Loveland felt they had been blessed in the
past year.
	Sisters Martha Reese, Fannie Call, Etta
Toleman, May Campbell and Eliza Tole-
man all had a testimony to bear and wanted
to help make the Relief Society a success.
	Bishop J. A. Toleman felt we had been
blessed here in this ward. Said we should
feel thankful to our Heavenly Father for
His blessings. Felt like being one with
the sisters.
	Brother Charley Jensen had been edified
in listening to the remarks of the previous
speakers. He was glad the sisters had
such a grand organization where they
could counsel together. Said he noticed a
remark in the letter that was read about
handshaking that it produced a feeling of
unity and love, and was also the means of
bringing those into our meetings and Sun-
day School who had never attended before.
	Brother Carlos Loveland thought we had
a good band of Sisters here. Said the sis-
ters were storing up lots of grain. Coun-
seled the sisters to be careful in laying
away the dead.
	Sister Clara Laird said the Lord had
blessed her in her affliction. She would
like to have her baby prayed for.
	Brother Josiah Loveland had been edified
in listening to the remarks of his brothers
and sisters. He had a testimony to bear.
	The minutes were then read and accepted
and the meeting closed by singing, and
benediction by Brother Charley Jensen.
	A party was given in the evening under
the auspices of the Relief Society.
			ALICE M. CARD, Sec.


R. S. AND P. A. REPORTS.
RELIEF SOCIETY HAWAIIAN MISSION.
	The Relief Society of the Hawaiian mis-
sion met in General conference at Laie,
April 5, 1901, at 2 p. m., President Alice
R. Woolley presiding. There were present
on the stand the following named sisters
from Zion: Jennie Musser, Ellen Cole,
Olive Pendleton, Annie Phillips and Annie
Madse[-].
	Meeting commenced by the choir and
congregation singing “O My Father” in
the native language. Prayer was offered
by Nakoi. Continued by singing.
	The annual report for the year 1900 was
read by Luka Kaulune.
	President Alice R. Woolley made the
opening remarks. “It is through the
blessings of the Lord that we meet in our
conference today, and I know if we have
come here with the proper spirit desiring a
blessing from the Lord that we will receive
it. Jesus commanded us to meet together


[Column 1]
often, that we might learn of the work of
the word of the Lord. The Relief Society
work is great one. It is our duty to care
for the poor in our midst. We should be
diligent in the teaching of our children, for
if we neglect to teach them correct princi-
ples we will be held responsible for it. We
should teach them the law of tithing and
all the principles of the Gospel. It is not
enough that we are baptized in the Church
of Christ, but we must keep the command-
ments if we obtain eternal life. It is re-
corded in Mathew that not all who cry
Lord, Lord will enter into the kingdom,
but he that does the will of our Father in
heaven. Therefore let us be faithful each
day of our lives.”
	The Laie Relief Society was reported by
Lahaole as being in a prosperous condition.
The sisters are diligent in their work. A
good report was also given of the Honolulu
Relief Society by Kauiopuna, who said
they were taking care of the poor, and hold
their meetings regularly. Kapili reported
the branches of the society at Waialae as
fully organized and much interested in
their work.
	Annie Kou explained the first verses in
John, 14th chapter.
	Sister Jennie Musser was pleased to be
with us today. Was thankful for the
Gospel for it was the same Gospel that was
upon the earth in the days of our Savior,
but was taken away because of the wicked-
ness of the people but it has been restored
again through the Prophet Joseph Smith,
and knew it was true. “Do not forsake the
good but the evil. May the Lord help us
to be faithful.”
	Pulewia, of Waialua, reported said soci-
ety as doing fairly well. “Our association
has not been organized very long, but we
are trying to help along with the work.”
	Mama Kapu said we should obey our
presidents and those over us. “Let us work
for the Lord in the time of our strength.
Let us live in love. The Relief Society is
to assist with the work of the Lord. If we
obey the commandments of the Lord we
will receive eternal life.”
	Trio, “School Thy Feelings, O My
Brother,” by Sister Jennie Musser, Hattie
and Ivy Kekuku.
	An essay on reverence for sacred things,
by Sister Olive Pendleton.
	The Kahana society was reported by
Poopua. “Our society is fully organized,
but we have not held our meetings regular-
ly during the last term.”
	Sister Ellen Cole said “This is a great
work. Fifty years have passed since the
Relief Society work was first established
and much has been accomplished during
that time, many of the sisters have endured
trials and persecutions in this work. We
have heard many things today about the
great and dreadful day of the Lord which
is near at hand. We should prepare our-
selves for this time. The women have a
great mission to perform. We are privil-
eged above those who do not accept the
Gospel of Christ, for in most other denom-
nations women do not have the privilege
of preaching the Gcspel as we do. In the
Church of Christ there is work for all. Let
us continue faithful to the end.”
	There was a fair representation from the
other islands, although not as many
branches were reported as usual.
	Sister Woolley thanked all who had
taken part in our meeting, and was grate-
ful for the peaceful spirit that had been in

[Column 2]
our midst. Urged the sisters to be diligent
and prayed the Lord to bless us in our
labors.
	The choir sang an anthem. Benediction
by President Samuel E. Woolley. Confer-
ence adjourned for six months.
		ALICE R. WOOLLEY, Pres.
		ELLEN COLE, Sec.

SALT LAKE STAKE PRIMARY.
	Minutes of Primary conference of the
Salt Lake Stake, held in the Assembly
Hall, Salt Lake City, June 22, 1901,
President Camilla C. Cobb presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing, “A Happy
Band of Children.” Prayer by Millie
Baird. Singing, “Little Lispers.” Roll
called, twenty-two associations present,
each responding with sentiments in concert.
Minutes of last conference read and ap-
proved.
	The first exercise on the program was a
selection by Prof. Best’s Mandolin and
Guitar Club, composed of fifteen little girls
and boys. Next a short sketch of Presi-
dent Camilla C. Cobb, given by Tillie
Thomas, of the Nineteenth Ward. Duet
by Lenora Sperry and Glennie Sims.
Questions and answers on the Ten Com-
mandments, by the Fifth Ward Primary,
at the conclusion of which they sang “The
Lord’s Prayer.” Recitation by Master
Adam Proctor, of the Tenth Ward. Song,
“In Our Lovely Deseret,” by all the
children.
	Sister Hattie Jensen gave an interesting
talk on “Incidents in the Life of President
Woodruff,” followed by a recitation by
Nellie Worthington, of the Fourth Ward.
Selection, (piano) by Prof. Beezley. Exer-
cise on the life of Joseph in Egypt, by
members of the Nineteenth Ward.
	President Louie B. Felt, of the General
Board, addressed the conference. Said it
gave her pleasure to listen to the children.
Wanted them to be missionaries and bring
others to the next conference.
	Counselor Lilly T. Freeze, of the Gener-
al Board, said she was happy to be with us
and was delighted with the good order and
the singing. Spoke of the importance of
cultivating music in the Primary Associa-
tion.
	A song was beautifully sung by Cathe-
rine McClellan, accompanied by the Guitar
and Mandolin Club. The club also gave
another selection.
	A vote of thanks was tendered to Prof.
Best and his band for their delightful
music.
	President Felt said she would like every
president to send two children to Prof
Best, so that he may have a large band.
Said there would be a reunion of the
Primary of several Stakes at Saltair on
June 7, urged all to attend.
	Conference closed by singing “Little
Children Love the Savior.” Benediction
by Brother Alvin Beezley.
			ELLA W. HYDE, Sec.

SNOWFLAKE, ARIZONA.
	The Relief Society conference of Snow-
flake Stake is just over, and though it
lasted but one afternoon it was very inter-
esting, notwithstanding the gloom which
seemed to hover over every one on account
of the sad death of a young man named
Frank Freeman, who had that morning
been thrown from his horse and died a few
hours after.
	The Stake presidency were present, as

[Column 3]
also the Stake Relief Society officers, with
the exception of Counselor. Mary J. West,
who is still in Utah.
	Nearly all the branches were represented
and the reports were quite encouraging.
Just now they are unusually busy trying
to assist in the erection of the Stake
Academy, and are resorting to various
methods to obtain the means. Some have
given entertainments and parties where
they sold refreshments, while nearly all
have donated liberally the quilts and rag
carpets made in the work meetings.
	They are now giving the Sunday eggs,
and odd as this resource may appear, a
tidy sum is realized each year.
	As a rule meetings are held once a week,
the first one in every month being devoted
to testimonies, the others to work.
	The sisters all felt well and the speakers
dwelt upon subjects that were applicable,
not only to Relief Society workers, but to
any who desire to be Latter-day Saints.
	The visit of Sister Emma Woodruff in
April was very much appreciated. It is
the first time in the history of our Stake
that the General Board have sent a sister to
instruct us. Sister Woodruff certainly
makes a good, missionary. Her remarks
were timely, and given in a spirit of love
and humility which caused us all to say
heartily, “Come again.”
		DELLA F. SMITH, Sec.

SOUTH SANPETE.
	Synopsis of Relief Society conference of
the South Sanpete Stake of Zion, held in
Ephraim, November 12, 1901, President
Alvira L. Cox presiding. Singing, “How
firm a foundation.” Prayer by President
Ellen Dorius. Singing, “We thank Thee,
O God, for a prophet.” Minutes of pre-
vious conference read and approved, also a
condensed report of the Stake for 1900.
	Sister Marie Willardsen, having been
chosen counselor in the Stake Board of the
Primary, was honorably released from her
duties as Stake secretary of the Relief
Society, which position she had filled with
honor and credit for many years. A vote
of thanks was unanimously extended to
her for her faithful labor.
	Miss Etta Anderson, of Manti, was
unanimously sustained as her successor.
	The Stake officers were then presented to
the conference and sustained.
	President Cox made opening remarks, re-
minded the sisters that the 17th of March
was approaching and advised that it be
celebrated in some fitting manner by each
branch society, and that the ten cent fee be
collected.
	The various wards of the Slake consist-
ing of Ephraim, North and South, Sterling,
Mayfield, Chester and Fayette were re-
ported by their respective presidents,
Centerfield by its secretary and Dover not
represented.
	Sister Julia C. Howe, of the Salt Lake
Stake Board, addressed the conference. She
dwelt on the importance of the mission of
the teachers. She had had experience in
that capacity herself and had enjoyed it
very much. Spoke of the necessity of
teachers seeking Divine aid that their
words might be words of wisdom. Stated
that the Relief Society was the parent of all
the auxiliary organizations of the Church.
Spoke of the contemplated Woman’s
Building and hoped the sisters would not
think they had too many calls.
	President Peterson expressed his great


pleasure at meeting with the sisters, and
also at seeing so many present. Referred
to the Snow Academy, said it would have
an assembly hall with a seating capacity of
six hundred. In conclusion eulogized the
work of the Relief Society.
	President Cox said she had considered
the advisability of making a donation to
the Snow Academy. The proposition was
unanimously sustained by the conference
and ten dollars was appropriated for that
purpose.
	Singing, Doxology. Benediction by
Bishop Anderson:
	Afternoon session opened by singing
“Glorious things are sung of Zion.”
Prayer by Sister Helena Madsen. Sing-
ing “O say what is truth.”
	Sister Elizabeth Stevenson addressed
the conference. Thought we failed to
appreciate the blessing of having the living
oracle in our midst. Spoke of the high
mission of motherhood and of prenatal in-
fluences. Mothers should retain the con-
fidence of their sons as well as their
daughters. Paid a tribute to the labors of
the teachers, said they were the backbone
of the society. Referred to the Relief
Society building to be erected in Salt Lake
City, and also to the necessity of sustain-
ing the EXPONENT. She advised prompt-
ness in the presidents in giving their re-
ports.
	Sister Rebecca Wareliam spoke of
Relief Society work in Nauvoo. Testified
to the healing power which had been mani-
fested in her behalf in the Manti Temple.
Stake Counselor Abigail Shoemaker
urged the young sisters to join the Relief
Society and bear testimony, that they
might be strengthened.
	President Alvira Cox was grateful to
Sisters Howe and Stevenson for their visit
and for their timely instruction. Testified
to the presence of the Spirit of God in the
conference. Spoke of the necessity of
cultivating faith, that Jesus may not say
of us as he did of ancient Israel, “O, ye of
little faith!” Said the instruction in 
relation to funds for the new building had
been given to the various branches in the
Stake, and she expected each ward to do
its duty.
	Sister Howe said those who were tal-
ented in writing should write for the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT. She felt well paid
for her visit and had been much interested
in the remarks of Sister Wareham. She
herself was a living monument of God’s
mercy. Sister Stevenson related an in-
cident showing how faith was rewarded.
Conference adjourned for six months to
meet in Gunnison. Singing, “Lord dis-
miss us.” Benediction by Stake Treasurer
Mary T. Peterson.
	P. S. The 17th  of March was fittingly
observed in Manti. Interesting programs
were rendered and a good spirit prevailed,
					A. L. C.
	MARICOPA STAKE.
	A special conference of the Relief Society
of the Maricopa Stake was held at Mesa in
the Stake Tabernacle, May 13, 1901, Stake
Counselor Francelle E. Robson presiding in
the absence of Stake President Mabel A.
Hakes, who was unable to attend.
	The attendance was large, the sisters
feeling to rejoice that they could have the
privilege of receiving instructions from one
of those sisters to whom we look as guides,
Sister Emma S. Woodruff being the first
sister to visit this Stake officially to give
instructions in Relief Society work since
the organization in this Stake. Many
questions were asked and explained.
	The reports from the different wards were
given. President Susan Savage in giving
the report of the Papago Ward said that
the Lamanite sisters were watching their
white sisters very closely in regard to the
keeping of the Word of Wisdom. 
	Elder L. John Nuttall was pleased with
the reports and glad that the sisters were
striving to live their religion and each add-
ing their mite in the great cause.
	The subjects of storing up grain, train-
ing our children properly and paying tith-
ing, especially among the young people,
wfere dwelt upon, and that each Stake
should send a representative to the General
Conference at Salt Lake each year, so that
all could be in touch with those at the
head.
	All felt to take the good spirit home and
try to live their religion better in the future
than they had in the past.
	ANNA E. FULLER, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
much as possible for you money. TRY US.

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank n Utah.
	Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts.
	The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW
	We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said
interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

The Most Convenient Local Train Service
in the State is given by the
Oregon Short Line
Railroad
FIVE Fast Daily Trains Each Way between
Salt Lake City and Ogden.

Se that your tickets read via the
"SHORT LINE"
And Get the best

CITY TICKET OFFICE for tickets to all points, 100 West
Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.
S. W. Eccles, D. E. Burley,
Gen Tfc. Mgr. G. P. & T. A.


NOTES AND NEWS.

The Fourth of July marked the 125th 
anniversary the adoption of the
Declaration of Independence.
 
	Betsy Ross was not forgotten on Memor-
ial day her grave in Mr. Moriah cemetery
and her pew in Old Christ Church, Phila-
delphia, being decorated with flags and
flowers.

	Mrs. Clara B. Colby and her adopted
daughter, Zintka, of Washington, D. C.,
are taking a trip westward. Mrs. Colby
will spend several months on the Pacific
coast, lecturing and sightseeing.

	A London confectioner’s establishment,
which is run entirely by women, has be-
come so great a success that its kitchen has
had to be partially turned into a school,
where women anxious to learn are taught,
the confectioner’s art.

	The Chicago Board of Education will
open another school for crippled children'
making the second school for these un-
fortunates, to which children are trans-
ported back and forth from their homes.
This will make 160 children of this class to
be cared for in this way.

	Mrs. Livermore delivered the address
before the Normal Training School, at Fall
River, Mass., on “Graduates’ Day,” June
25. She also delivered the address before
the graduating class of the High School at
Melrose, Mass., on. the evening of June 26


Miss Beatrice Harraden has been honored
with the request to send the manuscript of
her “Ships That Pass in the Night” to the
Glasgow exhibition. She sold the copy-
right of this work, it appears for 20
guineas, and a promise of more if the pub-
lication should be successful. It was suc-
cessful, and the first check was followed by
four more of the same amount, making
100 guineas in all. Nearly 200,000 copies
have so far been sold, but it is understood
that no America emoluments have re-
warded the author except by courtesy of
the publishers.


Woman's Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation
Vol. 30 
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1, 1901. 
No. 3.


CONTENTS.
President Snow’s Address.................................	17
Obituary.........................................................N.	18
Notes and News.................................................	18
Kansas Relief Society............Mary E. Smedley	19
An Interesting Reunion..................Alice Hardy	19
R. S. Report.......................................................	19
Thoughts on Missionary Work........L. D. Alder	21
New Internationalism.........May Wright Sewall	22
Autobiogrophy of Sarah B. Layton...................	23
The Thirty-Third Annual Meeting.....................	24

EDITORIAL—Mrs. Sewall’s Visit...................	20
	A Happy Birthday Party............................	20
Editorial Notes...................................................	21

POETRY—The Woman Who Nagged..............
	..................................Ella Wheeler Wilcox	17
	When Old Friends Meet...............E. B. W.	19


THE WOMAN WHO NAGGED.
Oh, I know a certain lady who is reckoned with
the good,
Yet she fills me with more terror than a raging
lion would,
The little chills run up and down my spine when-
e’er we meet,
Though she seems a gentle creature, and she’s
very trim and neat,
And she has a thousand virtues and not one
acknowledged sin,
But she is the sort of person you could liken to a
pin.
And she pricks you and she sticks you a way
that can't be said,
If you seek for what has hurt you—why you can-
not find the head !
But she fills you with discomfort, and exasperat-
ing pain
If anybody asks you why, you really can’t ex-
plain !
A pin is such a tiny thing, of that there is no
doubt,
Yet when its sticking in your flesh you’re wretched
till its out.
She is wonderfully observing; when she meets a
pretty girl,
She is always sure to tell her if her hair is out of
curl;
And she is so sympathetic; to her friend who’s
much admired, 
She is often heard remarking. “Dear, you look so
worn and tired.”
And she is an honest critic, for on yesterday she
eyed 
The new dress I was airing with a woman’s
natural pride,
She said, “Oh ! how becoming !" and then gently
added, “It
Is really a misfortune that the waist is such a fit.”
Then she said if you had heard me yester eve. I’m 
sure, my friend,
You would say, my friend, I was a champion who
knows how to defend.”
And she left me with the feeling—most unpleasant
I aver—
That the whole world would despise me if it had’nt,
been for her. 
Whenever I encounter her, in such a nameless 
way
She gives me the impression I am at my worst
that day.
And the hat that was imported (and which cost me
half a sonnet), 
With just one glance from her round eyes be-
comes a Bowery bonnet,
She is always bright and smiling. sharp and
pointed for a thrust,
Use does not seem to blunt her point nor does she
gather rust.
Oh ! I wish some hapless specimen of mankind
would begin
To tidy up the world for me by picking up this
pin !
ELLA WHEELER WILCOX.


On Wednesday afternoons, August 7, 14,
21 and 28, the International Council of
Women will hold meetings in the assembly
rooms at the Pan-American Exposition.


[Column 1]
PRESIDENT SNOW’S ADDRESS.
	[Given at Saltair, July 9, 1901.]
My Dear Sisters, Officers and Members of
	the Relief Society:

	I appreciate the privilege of being able to
spend an hour or two in your company this
afternoon, and I trust you are all enjoying
yourselves today. Proper recreation and
amusement are good things, and I am glad
to see you sisters indulging in a little rest
and recreation, for you who work so hard
day after day in your homes and in the
Relief Society certainly deserve all the en-
joyment you can get.
	Since receiving your kind invitation to
be present here the thought has impressed
itself upon me that the brethren of this
Church, myself included, have been won-
derfully favored of the Lord in having the
companionship and assistance of such faith-
ful, loyal wives and mothers as he has
blessed us with. It is difficult to imagine
what we should have done, or what pro-
gress the work of the Lord would have
made, without them. When we have been
absent on foreign missions, their missions
at home have generally been no less ardu-
ous than ours abroad; and in the midst of
trial and privation they have exhibited a
fortitude and self-help that has been truly
inspiring. Thank God for the women of
this Church! That is the way I feel today
as I join in this assembly and in accordance
with your desire, offer a few remarks.
	I understand that one of the objects of
this excursion is to raise funds towards the
proposed Woman’s Building in Salt Lake
City. Let me first say a word or two in
reference to that. As you all doubtless
know, I have, as Trustee-in Trust, con-
tributed a choice piece of land facing the
Temple of God, on which to erect a struc-
ture that will be suitable as headquarters
for the Relief Society, Young Ladies’
Mutual Improvement Association and the
Primary Association. I felt it was right
and proper that you should have a building
in which you could do your business, re-
ceive representatives from branch societies
and distinguished visitors from abroad,
hold council meetings and for various other
purposes, and it gave me much pleasure to
aid you to the extent of furnishing a
beautiful site for the building. I am glad
to note that you are making strenuous
exertions to raise the requisite means for
this purpose, and if you are all united and
liberal in your feelings, I do not think you
will find it a hard task. I would encour-
age every member of these organizations to
assist in this work. I would also invite
every Bishop to assist you in obtaining
sufficient means to erect a magnificent edi-
fice that shall reflect credit upon our
women and attract the admiring gaze of the
great and noble of all nations who may
visit Zion. I am told that a number of
ladies who are not members of the Church
have contributed very generously towards
the building, much to the gratification and
appreciation of those who have the matter
in hand, and this ought to prove a stimu-

[Column 2]
lus to those who are in the Church. I
hope to see a handsome structure reared
and I anticipate soon having the pleasure
of meeting with you in it. Success to you
in your efforts in this direction!
	You who are present today are members
of the oldest organization in the Church
outside of the Priesthood. The Relief
Society was organized nearly sixty years
ago, with nineteen members (my sister,
Eliza R. Snow being the secretary) by the
Prophet Joseph Smith, under the inspira-
tion of the Lord; and from that day to the
present it has gone on without interrup-
tion growing in strength and usefulness,
until today it is recognized as one of the
most powerful forces for good in the
Church. You are now 30,000 strong I
am told, with a building fund of nearly
$5,000, and with upwards of $100,000 worth
of property in your possession. In addition
to this you are the only ones among the
Saints who are doing anything in a finan-
cial way against a day of famine. Your
work in this direction is most commendable,
and I hear as a result that you have 103,783
bushels of grain, together with an amount
of flour and beans, safely stored away
against a time of need, as well as $3,331 to
expend for the same purpose. I under-
stand that in some few instances your labors
in this direction have been interfered with
but I hope that hereafter there will be no
occasion for complaint on that point.
	The mission of the Relief Society is to
succor the distressed to minister to the sick
and feeble, to feed the poor, to clothe the
naked and bless all the sons and daughters
of God. No institution was ever founded
with a nobler aim. Its basis is true char-
ity, which is the true love of Christ, and
that spirit has been manifested in all the
ministrations of the society among the peo-
ple. The Apostle James said that “pure
religion and undefiled before God and the
Father is this: “To visit the fatherless and
widows in their affliction, and to keep him-
self unspotted from the world.” Accept-
ing that as true, the members of the Relief
Society have most surely exemplified in
their lives pure and undefiled religion, for
they have ministered to those in affliction,
they have thrown their arms of love around
the fatherless and the widows, and they
have kept themselves unspotted from the
world. I can testify that there are no
purer and more God-fearing women in the
world than are to be found within the
ranks of the Relief Society.
	It has always been a source of pleasure
to me to notice how faithfully you sisters of
the Relief Society have stood by the ser-
vants of the Lord under all circumstances.
You have ever been found at the side of the
Priesthood, ready to strengthen their hands
and to do your part in helping to advance
the interests of the kingdom of God and as
you have shared in these labors, so you
will most certainly share in the triumph of
the work and in the exaltation and glory
which the Lord will give to His faithful
children. The Relief Society has been and
s one of the most valuable adjuncts to the


(Column 1)
Priesthood. It is in very deed a “help in
government.” And no wise Bishop will
fail to appreciate the labors of the Relief
Society in his ward. What would a Bishop
do without a Relief Society? I would say
to all the Bishops in the Church, encourage
the sisters of the Relief Society, and sup-
port them in their work of charity and
benevolence, and they will prove a bless-
ing to you and to the people.
	It might be thought by some that the
labors connected with membership in the
Relief Society would cause those sisters
who belong to it to neglect their household
duties. But this is not so. I will venture
to say that the best wives and mothers and
 the most efficient housekeepers among us
are members of the Relief Society, and I
would advise the brethren to encourage
their wives to join the society, where they
can do so; for it would be a good thing to
have the influence of this organization in
every home. I ask you, my sisters, in
your visits to the homes of the Latter-day
Saints to carry this influence wherever you
go. The Lord has clearly shown to you
the nature of your relationship to Him and
what is expected of you as wives and
mothers. Teach these things to those whom
you visit, especially to the young ladies.
Encourage marriage among them, and im-
press upon them the sacredness of that
relation and the obligation they are under
to observe that great commandment which
was given of God to our first parents, to
multiply and replenish the earth. This is
all the more necessary in view of the pres-
ent tendency in the world to disregard that
law and to dishonor the marriage covenant.
It is saddening to note the frequency of
divorces in the land and the growing in-
clination to look upon children as an in-
cumbrance instead of as a precious heri-
tage from the Lord. These evils should
not gain a foothold among the people of
God, and you, my sisters, as members of
the Relief Society and as mothers of Israel,
should exercise all your influence against
them and in favor of pure motherhood and
faithfulness to the marriage covenants.
	Now, it is not necessary for me to detail
what the Relief Society has done in the
past; its splendid work is known through-
out Zion, and in many parts of the world.
Suffice it to say, it has been true to its mis-
sion, and its record is not surpassed, if
equaled, by any other organization. The
Latter-day Saints are proud of it and of its
achievements, and are grateful to our
Father in heaven that He inspired His ser-
vant, the Prophet, to establish such an
institution. The future of the society is
full of promise. As the Church grows its
field of usefulness will be correspondingly
enlarged, and it will be even more potent
for good than it has been in the past. If
all the sisters will rally to the support of
the society, it will accomplish a mighty
work and be a continued blessing unto the
Church. It would be gratifying to see the
middle-aged as interested in this institu-
tion as the aged, and by becoming so they
will find that it will strengthen their faith,
give them broader ideas of life and its re-
sponsibilities, and advance them material-
ly along the path of progress and perfection.
	I feel to say, God bless the officers and
members of the Relief Society. You are
performing a grand mission, and I would
exhort you to not weary in well doing.
We are all aiming for celestial glory, and
the grandeur of the prospects before us can-

(Column 2)
not be expressed in human language. If
you will continue faithful to the work in
which you are engaged, you will attain
unto this glory, and rejoice evermore in the
presence of God and the Lamb. This is
worth striving for; it is worth sacrificing
for, and blessed is the man or woman who
is faithful unto the obtaining of it. God
bless you all. Amen.


18
WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		OBITUARY.

   The many friends of Sister Marian R.
Pratt will be pained to learn that she has
passed peacefully away.  Her demise oc-
curred at 7:5 a. m. on the 19th inst, at her
home in the 22nd ward, this city.
   She was born in Glasgow, Scotland,
August 23, 1830, and with most of her
brothers and sisters and immediate friends
became a member of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints with all her
heart, and although very young, a life of
remarkable activity and usefulness im-
mediately opened before her.
    Having been fully convinced of the truth
of the Gospel as taught by the Elders of this
Church, she has from the first felt that her
course in yielding obedience to its require-
ments was in full accord with the mind and
will of God, and with this never-failing
assurance she has steadily pursued her way
as co[-]sort of one of the greatest men of the
nineteenth century.  While distributing
some of his tracts in the city of Edinbor-
ough, on one occasion, she was invited by
a minister into his library, for he sought to
destroy her faith in living prophets which
had been raised up in these latter days, by
reading to her a passage from the writings of
St. Paul: “Whether there be visions they
shall cease; whether there be prophesies
they shall fail,” etc., but he was utterly
confounded when requested to read the ex-
planation given in the following verses:
“For now we see in part and know in part,
but when that which is perfect is come,
then that which is in part shall be done
away.”
    Having distributed tracts for several
months, and apparently meeting with
little success, she partly resolved to cease
her labors in that direction when an angel
was sent to Sister Wm. Gibbons, the lady
with whom she was living at the time, say-
ing, “Tell Marian to continue going with
the tracts, for now and then she will find
one who will obey the message.  This
timely admonition stimulated her to re-
newed vigilance, and consequently Dr.
France and many others, long since gone
to a happy reward, were among those she
was privileged to introduce the Gospel to.
    The Lord also blessed her with a great
many beautiful visions an[-] dreams.  On
one occasion she was shown the sky as it
appears at night, “studded with stars un-
utterably bright,” and lo, a voice which
said, “As the light of the morning cometh
in the east and shineth even unto the west,
so shall the coming of the Son of Man be.”
And the light of morning began to appear
in the east and shine unto the west. and a
new star arose, the like of which she had
never seen before.
    The words spoken by the angel, as may
be seen, are somewhat different to the
rendering given in the New Testament,
which is evidently incorrect, as “lightning”
does not always, come “in the east,” and
she felt that what the angel had said to her
was the true rendering.

[Column 2]
   Some of her acquaintances, when they
heard that she was about to start, tried to
poison her mind by telling her that the
Saints in Utah believed in marrying many
wives, to which she replied, “If all the
principles in the Gospel of old had to be
restored, the principle of plural marriage
would also be,” and she, like many
other noble men and women in the present
age proved her faith by her works.
   She came to this city in 1857, and soon
after was married to Apostle Orson Pratt,
and at his request took six of his children,
w[-]o had lost their own mother, and cared
for them as for her own.  Her house was
open to the poor and the distressed, the
orphan, the widow and the wavfaring man,
and her gentle ministrations among the
poor, sick and afflicted will be gratefully
remembe[-]ed both here and hereafter.
   Her family aud host of friends do not
feel to mourn at her departure from a life
she has lived so blamelessly and from a
condition at once distressing and almost
hopeless.  She has passed away as if in
peaceful sleep, and with joy we say,
“Good bye, Sister Marian, until we meet
in that bright realm called “Home.”—N.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mrs. Rachel Foster Avery will refresh
herself after the fatigues of the National
Suffrage Convention by a 350 mile carriage
ride. Accompanied by her three children
and a lady friend she will drive from Phila-
delphia to New York and take the boat up
the Hudson to Albany. From Albany the
party will drive to Saranac Lake, N. Y.,
where they will spend the summer. Last
year Mrs. Avery traveled in the same way
from Pennsylvania to her summer home
in the Alleghanies. She takes a small ice
chest under the seat of the carriage, and
has reduced the providing of food on the
journey to a fine art. Last summer she
took a book on flowers, and taught the
children botany with object lessons. This
year she will take a book on trees, and
teach them to know the many kinds of
trees they will pass on the roadside and
in the woods.—Ex.
	The delegates to the National Suffrage
Convention at Minneapolis were taken on
a trolley ride, “personally conducted” by
Senator Stockwell, to the famous falls of
Minnehaha. Unfortunately the water had
been diverted for some other purpose, and
very little was flowing over the falls but
the delegates enjoyed the steep, wooded
glen, with the river running through it,
the trolley ride in open cars through the
tree-bordered roads, and along the shores
of the blue lakes that form a beautiful
feature of the park systems of Minneapolis.
Mrs. Harriet Taylor Upton, the National
Treasurer, could not get away from her
duties to go on this excursion; and after-
wards in the convention she “brought
down the house” by innocently declaring
in an address of thanks that the hospitali-
ty of the people of Minneapolis had been
as plentiful as the waters flowing oyer the
falls of Minnehaha. She had seen a picture
of the falls taken when the water was
high, and was quite unaware that on the
day when the suffragists visited them, the
water was only a drizzle. She could not
understand the roar of laughter with which
her luckless comparison was received; but
the Minneapolis friends took it all in good
part, as a joke.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WHEN OLD FRIENDS MEET.

Written in honor of President Bathsheba W.
			    Smith.

When old friends meet together 
	Who've journey'd along life's way
In sunshine and stormy weather,
	There is always so much to say
Of the past, and its memories too
And the loved ones, whom once we knew.

And tho' we long for their presence,
	They will not come back again;
But we must not mourn their absence
	From this world of grief and pain,
But think of the good they have done
And the glorious crown they've won.

We remember Sister Eliza,
	Whose hymns we oft are singing,
And the Mothers in Israel with her,
Whose voices seem round us ringing;
They seem to be with us ever
When the old friends meet together.

We think of Joseph and Hyrum—
Of George A. and of many more;
Heber and Willard and Brigham,
	Who've reach'd the immortal shore !
We never forget them, never;
Whenever the old friends gather.

We loved the brethren and sisters
	Whose names we recall today,
But we fondly cherish the others,
	Who are toiling along the way;
And give each a friendly greeting
At this happy place of meeting.

Tho’ lonely the path we're treading,
	There is much to brighten the way,
If we do our Master's bidding,
	For we live in a glorious day.
And the Lord is ever giving
Rich blessings to those who're living.

And tho' we have all had sorrow,
	We can wear a smiling face;
Or need trouble about tomorrow,
	But with an obedient grace—
Bearing all in meek submission,
Press forward to fill our mission.

But we've gathered together here
	To honor this natal day
Of a mother in Israel dear;
	One favored of God, we can say
And we greet our Reverend Mother !
The old friends who're here together.

We wish her a happy birthday,
	And years in the House of the Lord,
With health and prosperity alway,
	And all that this earth can afford;
And at last a glad welcome above,
With a fulness of joy and of love.

E, B. W.
May 3, 1901.


KANSAS RELIEF SOCIETY.
	Thursday, June 13, 1901, at 2:30 p. m.,
in the hall used by the Kansas city branch
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, the sisters of this branch and Sister
Levinia Preator, of Independence, Mo., met
according to appointment by the mission
presidency to organize a Relief Society.
	The meeting was presided over by James
G. Duffin, president of the Southwestern
States mission, and the song entitled “Love
at Home” was sung at the opening of the
exercises. Elder D. O. Allen offered prayer,
after which the song, “Beautiful Zion,”
was sung.
	President Duffin spoke at length on the
object of the meeting and briefly referred to
the history of this important and beneficial
organization.
A number of the sisters present expressed
themselves as being heartily in sympathy
with the movement, and said that they
were desirous of seeing a branch of the soci-
ety in this section of the Lord’s vineyard
prosper and flourish.
	Sister Estella A. Milligan, of Kansas
City, Mo., was appointed as president of
the society, with Sister Kate Brown of


Kansas City, Kansas, and Louisa Preator,
Independence, Mo., as first and second
counselors, respectively.
	Sister Mary E. Smedley was appointed
and sustained as secretary, with Sister
Susan F. Pletts as assistant.
	Sister Milligan spoke of her brief ex-
perience in the work and expressed herself
as being pleased with the expressions of the
sisters who had voted to sustain her in her
calling.
	After the organization had been perfected
and the officers set apart, Elder B. C. Call
spoke, referring to the organization as be-
ing one of an important nature, and one
that would undoubtedly have historical in-
terest as being the first organization of the
kind in Jackson Co., the Center Stake of
Zion.
	The first and the third Thursday of each
month was the time set for holding
meetings.
	Trusting our feeble efforts may result in
good, and wishing the associations in the
various Stakes of Zion success as a reward
for their labors, we remain,
	Your sisters,
		ESTELLA MILLIGAN, Pres.,
		MARY E. SMEDLEY, Sec.


AN INTERESTING REUNION.
	The Twelfth Ward Relief Society held
their annual reunion in the meeting house
on July 14, 1901, Mrs. Julia Druce presid-
ing. The exercises commenced with sing-
ing. Opening prayer was then offered by
Bishop H. B. Clawson, followed by the
singing of that fine hymn, “The Spirit of
God.”
	Remarks were made by Sister Druce, ex-
plaining the object of the meeting and stat-
ing that the present presiding officers of the
Twelth Ward Relief Society, Sister Julia
Druce and her two counselors, Sisters
Jemima R. Midgley and Eliza D. Hooper,
had occupied this position twenty-two
years, since July 13, 1879.
	A vocal piece was then rendered by Miss
Edith Midgley.
	This was followed by interesting remarks
by Sister Bathsheba W. Smith. She
spoke of the early organization of the Relief
Society in Nauvoo by the Prophet Joseph
Smith.
	Miss Ellen Tibbetts then gave a serio-
comic reading, after which Sister Annie T.
Hyde talked to those present in an instruc-
tive and entertaining manner upon Relief
Society work.
	Miss Leone Wardrop gave a vocal selec-
tion.
Sister Maria W. Wilcox spoke interest-
ingly on woman’s work, and also made a
few remarks on Temple work.
	Miss Claire Williams sang a sacred piece
and some remarks were then made, in a
feeling manner, by Sister Mary Ellen Kim-
ball.
	Bishop Hyrum B. Clawson spoke of the
reverence he felt at this meeting, and men-
tioned that he was in Nauvoo when the
first Relief Society was organized by the
Prophet, although he was a boy at the time,
He said that he was acquainted with Sisters
B.W. Smith and Mary Ellen Kimball
when they were young ladies, and seeing
these sisters whom he had met in his boy-
hood, brought many recollections to his
mind of the early days in the Church..
	Sister Jemima R. Midgley spoke briefly
and Brother George F. Brooks and James


M. Wardrop made some interesting re-
marks about the good work of the Relief
Society.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde, by request, gave
a short but interesting talk on the nurses’
class.
	All enjoyed themselves and a good in-
fluence prevailed. The program ended
with the singing of the Doxology, and
benediction by Counselor James M. Ward-
rop.
	All then repaired to the vestry, and par-
took of light refreshments. The tables
were presided over by Sisters Emma Der-
rick, and Alice Hardy, of the Relief Society
assisted by some of the young sisters of the
Y. L M. I. Association.
	The entertainment was one that will be
remembered with pleasure by those who
were present.
			ALICE HARDY, Asst. Sec.


R. S. REPORT.

	The spring conference of the National
Relief Society of the Wasatch Stake of Zion
convened in the Stake house at Heber on
Monday, May 26, 1901, President Annie
R. Duke presiding.
	Sisters Margaret A. Caine and Dr. Ellis
R. Shipp, of Salt Lake, City were present
as visitors.    There were also in attendance
a very fair representation of officers and
members from the several wards of the
Stake; also some representative brethren.
	The reports given by representatives of
branches went to show that the members
generally were interested in this branch of
the work pertaining to the kingdom of God.
	The statistical and financial report was
read, which showed that the organization
was based upon a good foundation.
	Sister Caine gave some excellent advice
on the observance of the laws of God as
given for our guidance and testified that if
we would live in accordance therewith our
bodies would be healthy and our minds
vigorous in comprehending the things of
the kingdom.   She also spoke of the
necessity of doing all in their power to
bring salvation within the reach of the
living and the dead, and upon the proper
teaching and training of children so that
when they are old enough to understand
the principles of truth they will be ready to
accept them.   Sister Shipp spoke on the
objects of this organization and advised the
sisters to cultivate love and charity one to-
wards another.    Advised the mothers of
the necessity of teaching their children the
principles of virtue and honesty. Said it
should be their privilege to assist their hus-
bands by counseling and advising with
them in raising their families, that as they
grow to maturity they may be prepared to
accept of and live in accordance with the
glorious Gospel which we as Latter-day
Saints believe.
	President Wm. H. Smart gave some ex-
cellent advice to the sisters and said he was
greatly encouraged when he beheld their
zeal and felt that they were determined to
accept of the counsel given to them and
continue to assist in bringing about that
condition which is so desirable.
	President Annie R. Duke expressed the
thought that this was one of the best con-
ferences ever held to her knowledge, and
advised us to take home with us the spirit
that they had enjoyed
	HANNAH HARBOUR, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 20
Woman's Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00 one copy six months,
50 cts   No reduction made for clubs.   City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	[-]dvertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal di-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
                                             Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, at
second-class matter.
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1, 1901.


MRS. SEWALL'S VISIT.
	The visit of Mrs. May Wright Sewall to
Utah has been a very great pleasure to her
old friends and we trust, to many who
saw and heard her for the first time during
her brief sojourn in the state.
	On her arrival Friday afternoon, July 12,
she was met at the station by a committee
of ladies in carriages and escorted to the
Gardo House, where entertainment was to
be given her by Mrs. A. W. McCune, and
the ladies were invited in to give her friend-
ly welcome and greeting for a few minutes,
and express the joy they felt in having
her come to Utah to see the homes and sur-
roundings of the people who settled these
vales.
	The same evening a reception was given
by Miss Ann M. Cannon at Forest Dale, at
the home and in the beautiful grounds of
her brother, Hon. George M. Cannon, Mrs.
Sewall being the Guest of Honor.   At this
gathering she met many of the young peo-
ple of Salt Lake City and suburbs,  and
President Joseph F. Smith,  Apostle H. J.
Grant, President Angus M. Cannon, Elder
C.W. Penrose, editor of the Deseret Evening
News and other distinguished men and 
many notable women of the Church. The
grounds were prettily decorated and lighted 
and refreshments were served on small
tables under the trees to all the large com-
pany.   Indoors music both vocal and in-
strumental, as well as lively conversation
was indulged in, and one or two appropri-
ate recitations were given, and the entire
affair was a perfect success in every way,
thanks to the tact and energy of Miss Can-
non, to whose generosity and kindliness
her guests must all feel indebted for so hap-
py an occasion.  
	Saturday morning Mrs. Sewall attended
the organ recital accompanied by Mrs. 
McCune and others, and listened to the
famous Tabernacle organ played by Prof.
McLellan, who also explained to her all its
wonderful accoutrements and gave her its 
history, all of which she very much en-
joyed.
	Saturday afternoon a Lake party had 
been planned, Mrs. Minnie J. Snow having
kindly tendered a car to convey the party 
of ninety guests.          There were some dis-
pointments (as there nearly always are) and
only fifty sat down to the banquet that had
been prepared.   After lunch the party re-
paired to a private room in the pavilion 
where toasts and speeches were given. Mrs.
Augusta W. Grant had kindly consented to
act as toastmaster of the occasion, and in a
few well chosen words first introduced Miss
Ann M. Cannon, whom she designated one
of our Utah girls, and who then gave the
address of welcome in a most pleasing and
natural way. Mrs. Grant, in her most
facetious style, (which reminded the writer
of “Old Maid in the Corner’’) introduced
Mrs. Wells, whose subject was the “Inter-
national Council of Women.”
	Mrs. Grant, in suitable and graceful
terms, announced the next on the program,
Mrs. Minnie J. Snow, whose subject was
“Music in Utah.” Mrs. Snow gave, in her
brief paper, a very good idea of the success
and growth of this divine gift in our
mountain home, mentioning by name our
best and choicest singers and musicians,
and dwelling upon tile uplifting tendency
of the cultivation of this Heavenly Muse,
that can more nearly awaken every emo-
tion of the soul than any other power to
which mortals have attained. It reminded
the writer of the old poem by Wm. Collins,
which gives to music such emotional ex-
pression:
         “When music, heavenly maid, was young,
          While yet in early Greece she sung.’’

	Last came “Whistling,." by Mrs. Le Roi
C. Snow, who possesses wonderful skill in
imitating harmonious sounds of various
kinds, accompanied by soft, sweet instru-
mental music, which was very taking and
entirely out of the ordinary.
	Mrs. Sewall responded in a most compre-
hensive address with tactfulness and elo-
quence and quite won the hearts of the
audience, who were already prepossessed in
her favor, for she has the magical power of
attraction in a very wonderful degree.  It
is possibly one of the secrets of her being
able to overcome and triumph over every
obstacle in the way of magnificent work
among women of all nations and countries.
	After the exercises were concluded the
party went up to the dancing hall, where
they were entertained with fine music by
Christensen’s celebrated band and fancy
dancing by Miss Snow, (in costume)
daughter of Lorenzo Snow Jr., which helped
to make variety and was very pretty. Mrs.
Sewall, with a dozen or so of the party,
took a bath and a swim in the Dead Sea of
America, which she and her companions
richly enjoyed, as well as the delightful
scene by moonlight upon the water and the
ride home.
	Sunday afternoon Mrs. Sewall had the
distinction of. speaking  to an immense con-
gregation in the large Tabernacle in this
city, and of seeing and hearing our famous
Tabernacle choir and the celebrated organ.
An abstract of Mrs. Sewall’s address on
Sunday is published in this issue of the
paper.
	Sunday evening Mrs. Sewall spent at
the home of the writer and it is needless to
add we considered it a “red letter day”—
a time we had both' looked forward to for
many years.
	Monday morning Mrs. Sewall went out
driving with President Angus, M. Cannon,
then called upon President Snow and wife,
with whom she had a pleasant interview,
and at 3 p. m. was the Guest of Honor at
at an elegant reception given by Mrs. F.
S. Richards and Mrs. Wm. Jennings, at
Mrs. Richards handsome residence.   The
house was superbly decorated for the recep-
tion of this queenly woman, and Mrs. Rich-
ards and Mrs. Jennings received with Mrs.
Sewall, about three hundred people were
invited. About five o’clock Mrs. Sewall
gave a ten minute talk on the Inter-
national Council, -which was very interest-
ing and instructive.
	In the evening Mrs. Sewall gave a lec-
ture in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, her
subject being “Current Tendencies in
Education,” which was very fine, the only
regret being that so few availed themselves
of this rare opportunity of hearing this
celebrated woman of international fame.
	Tuesday morning Mrs. Sewall drove
about the city to places of special interest
and made some calls, went through Mrs.
McCune’s new residence, “The Bungalow,”
and called again at the Bee Hive. In the
afternoon she spoke at a parlor meeting at
Mrs. P. T. Farnsworth’s elegant home,
on the subject of Internationalism and the
International Council of Women.
	Mrs. Farnsworth’s charming little
daughters served punch and lemonade to
the guests at the meeting.
	The same afternoon a tea party was
given for her at the residence of Gen. and
Mrs. John Q. Cannon at the Cannon Farm,
formerly the residence of President George
Q. Cannon. The guests were, besides the
hostess (Mrs. Cannon) and the Guest of
Honor, Mrs May Wright Sewall:   Dr.
Romania B. Pratt, Mrs. A. W. McCune,
Mesdames Sarah Jane Cannon, Martha T.
Cannon, Eliza T. Cannon and Carlie Y.
Cannon, also Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs. S. W.
Sears, and Mrs. Lewis M. Cannon. 
	Later in the evening Mrs. Sewall was
shown through the beautiful grounds and
some of the residences of the family of
President George Q. Cannon, and Gen.
John Q. Cannon gave her a brief history of
the planting, cultivating and beautifying of
the grounds now so delightful and so much
admired; how this spot near the banks of
the Jordan had been converted from a
slough of weeds and thistles, had been
made habitable and beautified by the thrift,
energy and perseverance of his father’s
efforts and determination.
	We took our leave of Mrs. Sewall that
evening about eleven o’clock. The follow-
ing morning she took train for Provo in
company with Miss Aggie Campbell and
Miss Estella Neff. At Provo she was right
royally entertained by the citizens en masse
and was the special guest of Mr. and Mrs.
Jacob F. Gates.   Mrs. Sewall gave a lec-
ture Wednesday afternoon in the Provo
Tabernacle on “The Open Mind,”  and
had, we understand, a large and appre-
ciative audience. In the evening a ban-
quet was given in her honor at the B. Y.
Academy, which was a pronounced success
in every particular, so say the reporters.
	Mrs. Sewall's next stopping place was
Topeka, where she would, no doubt be
honored and feted and shown the same
marked attention that she has received
everywhere in the West. May her visit be
productive of the great good she so ardent-
ly desires in the interest of fraternal Inter-
nationalism.


A HAPPY BIRTHDAY PARTY.

	Tuesday, July 30, 1901, a very pleasant
lawn party was given on the beautiful
grounds at the Cannon Farm, by Gen.
John Q. Cannon and wife for their daugh-
ter, Louise, to about forty or fifty of her
young friends.  The place was prettily
decorated in honor of the festive occasion,
and the Chinese lanterns hung, from the
balcony in the vines and among the trees
gave the place a gala appearance.


The young people passad the evening in 
old-fashioned games and such like outdoor
amusements suited to midsummer eve-
nings.  The grounds are almost ideal by 
moonlight, and the effect of the pale light
[-]pon the water, beneath the lofty trees, and
across the wide-spreading, well-trimmed
lawns, filled with boys and girls, was 
artistically picturesque, to those who were
looking on. 
Of course there were congratulations in 
abundance and a few precious gifts in re-
membrance of the birthday, and there 
were, as a natural consequence, numerous
Cannons and a few Wells' and some Silvers 
and Golds, and if not Fosters and Mus-
graves, as at Lovhinvar's, there were Fos-
ters and McMurrins and Edwards and 
Grants and Youngs and Burns and Sears
and other names renowned in history's 
pages, or no doubt if not in the past will be 
in the future. 
Fruit punch and lemonade were served
during the evening by the little Misses
Ann and Emmeline Cannon, and other re-
freshments, ice cream, cake, etc., by Misses 
Grace, Vera and Margaret Cannon out 
under the trees in the pale moonlight, 
making a very pretty scene indeed. The 
hours flew swiftly and it was soon near 
midnight, but the time had been spent 
merrily. 
"How beautiful is youth, how bright it gleams
With its illusions, aspirations, dreams, 
Book of beginnings, story without end, 
Each maid a heroine and each man afriend,"
And with the others the EXPONENT ex-
tends congratulations and best wishes for 
many happy returns of the day, with high
hopes and lofty aspirations for "Sweetie,"
as her own home folks love to call her.


21								WOMAN'S EXPONENT


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Sisters Susan Grant and L. L. Greene
Richards visited the Relief Society in
Alberta Stake, Canada, and attended many
meetings and the conferences held while
they were there, and we trust their visit
has been productive of much good to those
among whom they labored in the interests
of women’s organizations.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith and Sis-
ter Annie T. Hyde attended the Davis
Stake conference at Farmington on Thurs-
day, July 25, and met there President Hess
who has been ailing so long, and also
Brother Ezra T. Clark, who has been suf-
fering seriously for several months.  They
were delighted to see these sisters.  Sister
Grant, too, had just returned from her trip
to Canada.  The conference was a very en-
joyable one.
	We desire to call the attention of our
readers to the Address of President Lorenzo
Snow in this issue of the paper, and ask
that it may be read at a meeting in each
branch of the Relief Society.  We are anx-
ious that the members of the society and
the public generally should know how in-
terested our honored President is in the
work of this grand organization and in the
effort being made by the Society to erect a
building for its needs and purposes.

	In a letter recently received from Canada
we learn of the good health and enjoyment
of our beloved President, Sister Zina D. H.
Young, who is visiting there with her
daughter and family, and we are sure all
the Saints everywhere wish her health may


continue to improve, and that she may have
renewed strength and vigor and be able to
accomplish all her heart desires in the
great mission to which she has been called
and set apart by the servants of God, to
preside over the Relief Society of the
Church in all the world.
	During the present year there has been
much missionary visiting done by our sis-
ters in the several Stakes of Zion.  Presi-
dent Jane S. Richards, accompanied by
Sister Emily S Richards, very recently
attended the conference in Alpine Stake,
where a change was made in the presiden-
cy, on account of the resignation, because
of ill health, of Sister Jemima Durrant,
who had been chosen to preside over the
Relief Society of that Stake of Zion.  Sister
Rebecca Standring was chosen to fill the
vacancy by unanimous vote of the confer-
ence!


[Column 1]
THOUGHTS ON MISSIONARY WORK.
		BY LYDIA D. ALDER.
	The close of the Nineteenth Century,
that had seen so much advancement, both
in science and education, showed also to
the world the great progress made by
woman.
	Behold her, whether in individual or or-
ganized capacity, leading out in affairs of
both national and international interest.
	This century that saw so much light
come into the world, from rush light to
candle, then on until electricity makes
the night a veritable day, brought about a
change in the condition of one half of the
world’s citizens, whether realized by them
or not.
	From being either the plaything or the
slave of man, not thought worthy of the
higher education, if of any at all, see her
side by side with him, in the schools or the
colleges, oftimes carrying off the laurels, or
standing at the head of the class.
	Behold her, too, as bread winner, aven-
ues before unthought of open for her to
enter in; nor is she longer dubbed “a blue
stocking” if, perchance, her Heavenly
Father has endowed her with the gift of
expressing her thoughts on paper, either
for the edification or the enlightenment of
the human mind.
	From the seclusion to which in former
times she was relegated, under the instruc-
tion that ‘‘if she would know anything she
should ask her husband, (and no provision
made in case she had none), behold her
stepping on the platform, or into the putpit;
the professor’s chair, or the doctor’s or
lawyer’s office; and the world gazing upon
her gives her room and audience merely say-
ing “this is the new woman.” She is now a
recognized member of the body politic, an
individual, a sovereign person, holding the
franchise in her hand, to be used for the
further advancement of her own sex, and
the betterment, if not the regeneration of
the world.
	In organizations she is a living, moving
power, either engaged in philanthropic or
literary work, in wielding the pen in de-
fense of the home, her own sex or the
nation. We learn to do by doing, and
places that at the beginning of the century
were thought unfit for woman or were be-
yond her capacity, she filled with credit
and grace, long before its close.
	For her to occupy the pulpit or speak on
the principles advanced by Jesus of Nazer-
eth, was, in the early days of that century,

[Column 2]
as from days of old, thought to be a sacri-
lege; but at its close, behold many ordained
ministers of the Gospel, both at home and
abroad, are women. We note the great
change but do not enter into it enough to
ask, ‘‘what has brought it about?” The
believers in the divine mission of the
Prophet Joseph Smith know and bear wit-
ness in all the world of the reason.
	Why did more light come into the world
in the Nineteenth century than all the
others combined ?
	Because the heavens were opened and
God spoke again to man; angels descended
to earth direct from the throne of God,
making know the will of the Father con-
cerning the earth and His children; bring-
ing the everlasting Gospel again, which he
declared should be preached in power until
the King of Kings should come to reign.
	This is the cause of the greater light
which will continue to increase until all
shall know God, from the greatest unto the
least. While the world at large reject this
prophet and his mission, yet all admit that
great light has come to man, but attribute
it to his own knowledge in science or dis-
covery.
	Where did he get the knowledge, or who
rewarded his efforts in the line of discovery ?
Why did he not think of the fields explored
during later years in the beginning of the
century ?
	The reason is apparent. The heavens
had not been opened then; it was not God’s
time, consequently the flood of light had
not descended. But the command had been
given; the Church of Christ was to be
established again, this time not to be
thrown down or given to another people.
	A few years after these thrilling events
had transpired another command was given.
This time it was God’s daughters who had
come in remembrance before him. He
made it known that when the true Church
was on the earth there was an organization
of its women members.
	In accordance with these instructions a
call was made, on all those who would, to
gather themselves together and in future
act as an organized body.
	This important meeting took place on the
17th of March, 1842, in the city of Nauvoo,
State of Illinois. Nineteen sisters were
present. The prophet taught them parlia-
mentary law and usage, giving instructions
so far in advance of his day that they are
not all carried out even now.
	Having explained to them the nature of
their calling, their duties and the blessings
to follow that great event. He prophesied
of the development and advancement to
which women could in the future attain.
	This explains why woman has mads
such rapid strides in the world’s affairs;
why she has been blessed to such a degree
and with such glorious success.
	The benefits were not restricted to those
of our Church only. No ! God designed
that all His daughters should share in
them, should alike come from their former
seclusion and shine as stars of a larger and
greater magnitude, that should in turn
again reflect and add to the brillance that
was shining around their pathway. As a
consequence note the position of women at
the close of that wonderful century and the
beginning of the Twentieth. God designated
those who were to lead out in these new
fields of woman’s work, “Elect Ladies.”
In the scriptures they are spoken of in the
same terms.


Emancipated now from her former sur-
roundings, behold her struggling and ris-
ing, her field of attainment and useful-
ness gradually broadening and deepening
until it is now, not only national but inter-
national.
	Was any field o[-] thought with held from
her? Was any profession denied her?
No ! Whatever her hand found to do she
was empowered to do with her might.
	With her fine, spiritual nature, her ten-
der, loving heart, could she not speak of
God and his dealings with men? Could
she not call upon those,perhaps less favored
than herself, and show them the pitfalls
that were being constantly dug for their
unwary feet, and warn them of their dan-
ger ?
	To her pure heart the still voice of the
Spirit spoke as in tones of thunder; to the
clear eyes of her understanding are the
truths of eternity made manifest. Thus
she becomes a witness of the unspeakable
things of God.
	Being thus educated by God Himself
th[-]ough the whisperings of the Spirit, is
there anything pertaining to His kingdom
hid from her or denied her if she be worthy ?
	The prophecy had been uttered more
than a decade ago, that the day would come
that as the Elders were sent into the world
two by two, so should the sisters of our
Church be sent. In 1898 this was fulfilled,
several sisters being sent to England as
regularly appointed and authorized mission-
aries. On their arrival they were assigned
to their fields of labor and began the ardu-
ous duties of that sacred, important calling.
	In June, 1899, the great Quinquennial
Congress of Women was to convene in
London. More missionaries were sent to
Great Britian (among them the writer) who
was also to attend that International gather-
ing of women.
	The reporter of the New York World
said to me, “You have eleven representa-
tives from Utah here at this Congress. You
people in Utah must have a lot of push or
lots of money.”
	I assured her it was the “push” of which
we had such an abundance, and asked her
to make mention of the fact in transmitting
news of the Congress to her paper.
	Utah’s voice was heard in the delibera-
tions of that important body of women, and
proudly did she contribute her share to its
advancement. Was it not something of the
irony of Fate that while this Congress was
in session the Equal Rights bill that was
being discussed in the English Parliament
was cruelly put to death ? Having been re-
ceived and entertained by her most Gracious
Majesty, the Queen and Empress of India,
the Congress dispersed, each one returning
to her own land.
	The missionaries remained, were ap-
pointed to their fields of labor, and now at
the end of two years they, too, have re-
turned to the shores of America and the
vales of Utah.
	The providence of God has been over
them, the blessings bestowed by the ser-
vants of God have been fulfilled. They
have gone in peace and returned in safety,
having carried the truth of the Gospel to
those who sit in darkness and under the
shadow of death.
	They have had the privilege of speaking
on the streets of many lands, or in the
market places, have had the imperishable
pleasure of seeing the sick healed through
their humble administrations, and the Holy
Ghost carry conviction to the hearts of

[Column 2]
those who have been under the sound of
their voices; and some enroll themselves on
the record of the Church, having entered
in at the door, “Baptism.”
	They have heard the voice of God’s
priesthood say “Well done, good and
faithful servant, you are released from
your labors in these lands to return to Zion,
there to continue your efforts to roll on the
work of God on the earth.” Blessed words
to fall on grateful ears, hearts humbled and
taught charity, and the great love of the
Redeemer of mankind by walking in His
footsteps, by being scorned and rejected,
even as He was, yet acknowledging with
tears and supplication that they know not
what they do, and imploring that God, be-
fore whom all the world must stand, to
have mercy upon them, and, if possible, let
them hear the words of life yet another
time, for perchance they may yet repent.
	President Lyman, late of the European
mission, has in all soberness declared “that
the lady missionary is no longer an experi-
ment, but an unqualified success.” In the
early dawn of the Twentieth century this
fact has been demonstrated to the world.
	What will the future unfold ? Will her
career end here ? Nay ! Broad avenues,
today unexplored will be open for her earn-
est efforts to teach the principles of purity
and truth. The new century, ablaze
with light for all the world, will see her
crowned, seated on the throne secured by
her long devotion of wifehood and mother-
hood,by intellectual development, and heart
and soul expansion, as well as knowledge
gained by contact with the world.
	A Queen,she will reign by the side of her
lord, the King, as in the beginning, whe[-]
this planet of ours came into existence and
rolled out into space “The sons of God
shouted for joy, and the morning stars sang
together.” So will it be when the predic-
ted time has come and woman stands glori-
fied in the sphere designed for her by her
Fat[-]er and God.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.    22


NEW INTERNATIONALISM.
Abstract of an Address delivered by May
Wright Sewall, President of the Inter-
national Council of Women, Salt Lake
Tabernacle, July 14, 1901.

	Five centuries ago the word “new”
found a novel application in the phrase
“new learning.” A century later the
new word was exposed to the eyes of the
world. In our own day we have heard
much of the new theology,the new criticism,
the new education, the new psychology,
and most obnoxious of all, the new woman.
	To utter the phrase, the new inter-
nationalism, implies that there has been an
old internationalism. The oldest inter-
nationalism was that of exploration, made
in the interest of discovery at the impulse
of curiosity. The Phoenicians represented
this in classical times. Columbus was the
type of this internationalism in the age of
Isabella. Drake, Frobisher, and their
companions, in the age of Elizabeth. Thus
is formed an internationalism, old to the
second, which may be called the inter-
nationalism of conquest. The leaders of
this form of international spirit, are Hanni-
bal, Alexander, Pizarro and Napoleon. Of
these the symbol may still be “ a tiger lap-
ping blood” or “an eagle with his beak
buried in the heart of his victim.”
	Following internationalism of conquest,
was the internationalism of commerce,

[Column 2]
whose object it was to serve the internation-
ism of conquest and discovery by reaping
the fruits of their victors, Of this Warren
Hastings may stand as type. It is hardly
less merciless, less greedy, less rapacious
or less cruel than conquest days, in the in-
terest of commercial internationalism, that
conquests are made.
	There followed upon the forms of inter-
nationalism already enumerated, three
others, which are typified by the mission-
ary, the teacher and the immigrant. The
internationalism typified by these three
factors of modern society, differ from the
preceding forms of internationalism in cer-
tain respects. The missionary and the
teacher do not indeed strive to secure acces-
sions of territory for the country they rep-
resent, but the missionary does try to win
for the particular section of Christendom
which he represents, accessions of the
human spirit. The missionary and the
teacher are both differentiated from the
immigrant by one quality, and in so far as
they are thus differentiated their inter-
nationalism is less helpful than his. Both
are dominated by a kind of arrogance, the
missionary saying, “I am holier than thou,
become thou like unto me,” the teacher
saying, “I am wiser than thou, become
thou like unto me.” It is only the immi-
grant who in the spirit of simplicity and
humility seeks in the country whither he
goes, something better and larger than life
yielded him in the country which he left.
He goes confessedly to improve his con-
dition by the exchange of his native coun-
try for another.
	To my mind the immigrant will ultimate-
ly prove to have been the most important
of the sociological factors which have
united to produce a new internationalism.
The immigrant has come into very close re-
lations with the people of the country
which he has entered, and his introduction
into the country has been the introduction
of new problems of philanthropy and char-
ity. To meet these new problems with
any degree of intelligence, philanthropists
have been compelled to study the condi-
tions which have produced the immigrant.
This study of the sociological conditions in
foreign countries is an important step to-
wards the new internationalism. In all the
forms of internationalism which I have
enumerated, what has been the part of
woman ? We may indeed be thankful that
in the internationalism of discovery and 
conquest, woman’s part was chiefly pain,
agony and heartbreak. Thankful because
heartbreak and agony are the agents of
cleansing, of purification, and modern
womanhood with its capacity for self-abne-
gation, is, in a large degree, the product of
the tuition of pain.

What has been woman’s part in commer-
cial internationalism ? For a reply to this
question, we must consult the statistician.
So far as our own country is concerned, 
the statistician shows us that about fifty
per cent of the imports may be classified
under the chief head “Articles de Luxe.”
For the most part these are made by the 
women toilers of foreign countries for the
well to do women of the countries into
which they are imported. So in industrial
and commercial internationalism, women
may be said to bear their equal share.
One characteristic of all the forms of
internationalism above enumerated, is
competition. In this internationalism 
men and peoples have met one another as
enemies, as combatants; as antagonists. It


[Column 1]
is indeed better that different nations and
different individuals should meet as enemies,
than that they should not meet at all, for
the whole lesson of life consists in meeting
one another, and in mutual recognition. 
	Opposed to all of these old forms of inter-
nationalism, is the new internationalism,
whose essential element is co-operation, in-
stead of competition. Of this the Czar’s
Congress, convened at the Hague in
1899, may be considered a symbol. Much
mockery and numerous jeers met the Czar’s
transcript. But in spite of mocking skep-
tics, more than a score of nations responded
by sending their representatives to The
Hague in May, 1899. It is true that while
the congress was in session, the mockers
busied themselves by estimating the Czar’s
armies, and the additions which he was
making to his fleets, and there are doubt-
less many among the skeptics who sincere-
ly believe that the congress was convened
in order to distract the attention of the peo-
ple, while some of the leading nations of
the earth should make preparations for
war on a larger scale than it had recently
been waged. We are not deaf to the cries
of dying Boers, to the groans of contending
Britons, as they are wafted to our ears
from the fields of South Africa, nor are we
deaf to the moans of Cubans, Spaniards
and Americans, that have saddened the
winds that rise over Cuba, and the breezes
that come to us from the Phillipines: We
are not blind to the shameful pages in
which the historian will regard the puni-
tive expeditions in China. Humanity will
ultimately realize the monstrousness of
such expeditions inaugurated and executed
by great Christian peoples, boasting them-
selves to be possessed of the higher intelli-
gence and more advanced civilization, a
purer and more exalted form of govern-
ment, and a truer and deeper religion than
was known to the natives of China.
	Much in the history of grand events
manifests a greed and animosity which
characterize what I have chosen to call old
forms of internationalism. But the battle-
fields of South Africa, the punitive expedi-
tions in China and the unrecorded agonies
that have been suffered in Philliphine
swamps, are not the symbols of a new
internationalism. They are not, indeed,
the symbols of our modern life. They are
episodes in our life. They demonstrate the
survival of large parts of human nature not
yet dominated by divine grace. They may
hinder but they cannot indefinitely postpone
the triumphant acknowledgement of the
new internationalism. The meaning of
that internationalism is symbolized by the
great international arbitration which was
completed on the second anniversary of the
Hague Congress as the first fruit of that
congress. That great or international arbi-
tration in a large way, stands for the doc-
trine of co-operation, of friendly interven-
tion. What it stands for means more than
any nationalism yet affected in the world.
We may be tempted to impatience as we
witness the halting arrival of our ideals,
but when we consider what centuries of
time have been consumed in the develop-
ment of a single nationality, we may in-
deed take courage for the growth of inter-
nationality, and we may realize that in as
much as it transcends nationalism, so will
it be inaugurated only after the lapse of a
longer period of time, and after the expend-
ture of more of the resources of the human
spirit, than the growth of a single nation

[Column 2]
has ever cost. Our own national history
is so brief relatively, that we may almost
say that we have seen our nation grow.
When we remember that when French and
English first met on the little strip of
Atlantic seaboard, when Spanish and Eng-
lish first met in the gulf, that they
met only to contend, only to recognize
each in the other his enemy, and when we
realize that then less than three centuries
from the time of the first English settle-
ment, even the present territory of the re-
public, almost all of the nationalities of the
earth have been reconciled and are united
here in the maturing of a great nationality,
we may indeed believe that if three cen-
turies had been requisite to the production
of a nation, we may be obliged to give
more than thrice three to the production of
conscious internationalism.
	We have seen Italy grow from dismem-
bered fragments into a nation. We have
seen almost within our own life time, Ger-
many grow from distracted, contending
factions, into a united empire. In our own
country the spirit of the nation has been
again and again assailed by the spirit of
section and party. The historians tell us
that not until the Civil War was over did
either North or South recognize another
portion of the country as its peer. Not un-
til then were the factional spirits of North
and South lost in the sense of common
nationality. Numerous conditions and
circumstances have arisen to intensify the
sectional spirit in both East and West, and
Sociologists in our time have rejoiced that
the Spanish-American war carried on in
Cuba, and the war in the Phillipines, have
given to the States and Territories in our
Union the opportunity of seeing their sons
march shoulder to shoulder in the revived
sense of their common nationalism.
	What part are women to bear in the new
internationalism, in the co-operative phase
as opposed to the inimical phase of the
international spirit?
	The first message delivered from the out-
side the Czar’s Congress when it convened
at The Hague was the message sent by the
uprising of women throughout the world to
rejoice over the conyening of that congress.
In this message the women of twenty-two
nationalities informally and spontaneously
united. The latest telegram received by
the congress at The Hague was that sent
by the vote of the International Council of
Women, then sitting in London. In that
council the women of nine different nations
were formally represented in a delegate
deliberative body, and a resolution pledg-
ing the International Council to support
the doctrine of international arbitration,
and to do its utmost to educate public opin-
on in all of the countries represented by
the Council to the proper conception of the
dignity of that doctrine, was unanimously
adopted. The growth of the International
Council since that date has been almost
phenomenal. Nine countries were then
united in it, and their union was the result
of eleven years of labor. In the two years
since the adjournment of that session six
other countries have organized National
Councils of Women, and now the women
of these fifteen distinct nationalities stand
pledged to the support of social peace and
international arbitration. Fifteen nation-
alities with more than seven millions of
women included in these Councils which
together constitute the International Coun-
cil, constitute one factor in the force which

[Column 3]
makes up internationalism. Its fruits can-
not be prophesied, but in the process of its
development, we shall learn larger words
as symbols than our lips have ever intelli-
gently uttered. We shall learn that as the
family is greater than the individual, al-
though composed of individuals, as the
community is greater than the family, al-
though composed of families, as the state is
greater than the community, although com-
posed of communities, as the nation is
greater than the state, although composed
of states, so is humanity greater than one
nationality, although composed of nation-
alities, so is internationalism greater and
more sacred than nationalism.
	In the pursuit of this new international-
ism, we shall not learn to love our coun-
tries less because we are learning to love
the world more, but we shall learn that
humanity is a larger word than patriotism,
that the love of humanity, of that human-
ity which includes all the children of God,
is the only satisfactory evidence of the love
of God.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SARAH B. LAYTON.
			(Continued.)
	About December 13, while riding in his
carriage in Arizona, Brother Layton was
struck with a severe pain in his bladder,
which caused him great suffering. His
family tried everything they could to re-
lieve him, but without success. They
secured the best medical assistance there
was to be found in that country, but in
vain. They all said it was Bright’s dis-
ease, and there was no help for him.
Several different times we received tele-
grams stating that he was very low and
sinking very fast, that the end was near.
Early in 1898 he took to his bed, having
suffered so much that it was thought he
would not last long, but he still clung to
life. In June I received a letter from his
wife, Elizabeth, stating that he had made
up his mind that he must come to Utah to
spend his last days, and that he wished an
answer by return mail to know what we
thought of it and where he could stay.
	I did not know what to do or say as I
had but one room in the house that I could
lay claim to. I went and prayed that the
Lord would direct me in what I should say.
I sent my daughters with the letter to each
of his wives, and they were all quite willing
that he should come to my house, or rather
my daughters, with whom I was living,
but they could all make room for him when
he was well.
	I took the letter to his eldest sons and
daughters, who said father was welcome to
come to their homes and they would do the
best they could for him. But they all
agreed that he would feel more satisfied to
come to my home.
	I answered the letter and told them that
I had but one room that I had any claim
on, but that if he wished he and his wife
were welcome to come and have that. I
told them to send us word where he would
prefer going, and the folks would prepare
for him.
	Just nine days from the time they wrote
their letter they received our answer, and
the same day he got out of bed and dressed
himself and started for Utah. The next
morning I received a telegram stating that
he was coming to my home in Kaysville,
and that he wished the boys to meet him at
Ogden, which they did. On Friday, June


17, they arrived—Brother Layton, his wife,
Elizabeth, and his son Charles.  They had
to keep him under the influence of mor-
phine all the way, and then it seemed that
he would not hold out until they arrived.
But he did, and he stepped off the train,
walked to the carriage and from the car-
riage to the house. But he never went
outside of the house afterwards. When he
got into the house he laid himself down
on the bed, closed his eyes and said,
“Thank God I have got home!”
	The next day we sent for Dr. Joseph
Richards, and he came and staid all night.
On examination Dr. Richards said he felt
sure Brother Layton had stones in his blad-
der, and wished him to go to the hospital
where he could have an operation per-
formed. His reply was that he would
never go to the hospital, nor have an oper-
ation performed. He continued to get
worse, and his suffering was hard to bear.
On the morning of the last of June he was
very bad and when the doctor came he told
him that nothing but an operation could
save his life, and that if it were not per-
formed he could not last more than a few
hours. So he with his family consented.
Dr. Richards had brought Dr. Wilcox with
him that morning, and as soon as the suf-
ferer consented the two doctors began the
task at once. They took out fifteen stones,
the largest weighing four ounces and the
others varying in size. He stood the
operation very well, and came out from the
chloroform feeling as well as could be ex-
pected. The wound healed up nicely, and
for some time things looked as if he would
still live a time. But his pain had worn
him out and all that a loving family and
friends could do did not raise him up. The
last week he seemed to feel better, but a
cough set in and he did not have strength
to withstand it. On the 6th of August
mortification set in. Everything was done
tliat could be from the beginning, both in
administration and medical aid, but to no
avail, he gradually sank until August 7, at
10:30 p. m., when he passed peacefully
away, surrounded by his wives and chil-
dren, grandchildren and a multitude of
friends.
	Amid all the excitement and all the hur-
ry the words of the servant of the Lord
were not lost sight of. I remembered
what Brother Richards had said and I saw
the fulfillment of it in my own heart. For
many times did he with tears in his eyes
ask me to forgive him for all the past, and
would say that nothing should stand in the
way of my being made happy if he could
but live a few years longer. I did forgive
Him from the bottom of my heart.
		(Continued.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage.  We aim to give you as
	much as possible for your money.					TRY US.

[Column 2]
Obstetrics and Nursing.
Dr. Margaret C. Roberts will commence
her next class in Obstetrics and
Nursing on Monday, Oct. 14.
	For further information communicate with
Dr. Roberts, 75 North State Street.
	Telephone 748 D.

EXCURSION NORTH.

Saturday, August 24th, 1901.
	Via the Oregon Short Line, at the
following rates:
			Limit					Limit
To			Days.	To				Days.
Brigham......  $2.35		15	Rexburg......	$10.85	30
Collinston...	3.15		15	Market Lake.	10.35	30
Mendon......	3.55		15	Dubois.........	12.00	30
Logan.........	3.80		15	Spencer........	12.65	30 
Smithfield...	4.10		15	Am’n. Falls..	8.00		30
Richmond...	4.25		15	Minidoka.....	9.00 	30 
Franklin......	4.25		15	Shoshone.....	10.00	30
Preston.......	4.50		15	Bellevue......	12.75	30
Oxford........	4.30		15	Hailey..........	13.00	30
McCammon	5.80		15	Ketchum......	13.50	30
Bancroft.....	7.30		30	Mt. Home....	11.50	30
Soda Sp’ngs.	8.10		30	Nampa.........	 18.25	30
Montpelier..	9.65		30	Boise City....	19.00	30
Blackfoot....	8.20		30	Caldwell......	18.50	30 
Pocatello.....	7.00		15	Ontario........	20.00 	30
Idaho Falls..	9.50		30	Payette........	20.25 	30 
Rigby..........	10.25	30	Welser.........	21.00 	30
St. Anthony	11.40	30	Huntington..	22.50	30
	Proportionately low rates from other
points in Utah.
	Trains for Cache Valley leave at 7
a. m.
	For points east of McCammon, 10:50
p. m., and for all other points at 9:45
a. m. and 10:50 p. m.
	Trains on Wood River branch will
run Sunday, August 25th.
	City ticket office, 201 Main street.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank n Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
		LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.


THE THIRTY-THIRD ANNUAL MEETING.
	The 33rd annual meeting of National
Woman’s Suffrage Association adjourned
on Thursday evening, June 5, 1901. It
has been an interesting and successful


convention with 26 states represented by
145 delegates in actual attendance. Most
of these delegates are active and influential
workers for equal suffrage in their respec-
tive localities. It would be difficult to
secure a more complete expression of the
equal suffrage movement as it exists in the
United States today.
	The unity of sentiment and identity of
purpose were highly encouraging. There
was no North, no South, no East and
no West in this truly national assembly.
Each state seemed to vie with every other
in generous sympathy and sisterly regard.
The desire seemed to be to recognize the
excellent work done in the past, and to
plan for the future with a view solely to
the welfare of the cause.
	Five thousand dollars was pledged to
the work of 1902. Of the $8,500 net pro-
ceeds of the National Bazar $3,500 has
been used in the work since January 1,
1901, leaving the remaining $5,000 for
future work.
	In the board of general officers two
changes were made. In place of Mrs.
Rachel Foster Avery, who declined a re-
election, Mrs. Kate Gordon, of Louisana,
was elected corresponding secretary, with
the understanding that she will make her
residence in New York, and devote her en-
tire time to the business of the association.
				Woman’s Journal.


Mrs Kate M. Gordon of New Orleans,
who has just been elected corresponding
secretary of the National American
Woman’s Suffrage Association is probably
the only person in the United States who
ever voted legitimately several hundred
times in one day. When the Louisiana
Constitutional Convention, in 1898, gave
taxpaying women the right to vote on all
questions submitted to the taxpayers, it
added a clause unique in suffrage legis-
lation, to the effect that any woman who
preferred to do so might cast her vote by
proxy. Soon after a special election was
held in New Orleans to levy a tax for im-
proved sewerage. New Orleans was al-
most the only city of its size without
underground sewers Up to that time
every effort to levy a special tax for
sewers had failed. When the women tax-
payers were given a vote they took a
great interest in the question, held many
public and parlor meetings and cast a large
vote The election went, in favor of bet-
ter sanitation, and all the New Orleans
papers declared that “the women did it.”
Miss Gordon was president of the
Woman’s Sewerage and Drainage League
of New Orleans. She collected proxies
from three hundred women taxpayers who
wanted better sewers, but were timid about
going to the polls, and she spent election
day in driving about and voting over and
over again in all parts of the city, as every
proxy vote had to be cast in the precinct
where the person giving the proxy liv
The Business Men’s Association of N
Orleans gave Miss Gordon a medal.


[---] Releif Society
Woman’s Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation

Vol. 30	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1901.		No. 4


CONTENTS.
Visit to Canada.........Louisa L. Green Richards	5
A Woman Missionary........................................	25
Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting....J. S. Woolley	26
Pioneer Day in Chicago.....................................	26
International Council Notes..............................	27
Successful Celebration......................................	27
Autobiography of Sarah B. Layton...................	30
In Memoriam.....................................................	31
R. S. Reports......................................................	31

EDITORIAL—Our Beloved President..............	28
	Little Marian’s Birthday Party...................	29
	A Delightful Evening.................................	30
	Editorial Notes...........................................	30
POETRY—The Soul’s Discovery.Marie Correlli	25
	Little Things..........................Ellis R. Shipp	25
	Days and Deeds that Live   Zina E. Walker	27


THE SOUL’S DISCOVERY.

			I have found Thee, O God !
Not in cold temples made with human hands,
	But in the broad beneficence of skies,
And in the flowering-time of meadow lands.

			I have heard Thy Voice,
Not in the pauses of a priestly prayer,
	But in the tender whispering of the leaves,
And in the daily breathing of the air.

			I have felt Thy Touch,
Not in the rush of world’s delight or gain,
	But in heart-breaking agony and tears,
And in the slow pulsation of strong pain.

			I have known Thy Love,
Not when earth’s flattering friends around me
		smiled,
	But in deep solitude of desolate days—
Then wast Thou very gentle with Thy child !

			I have seen Thy Face,
Not only in the Great Light of the Cross,
	But through the darkness of forgotten graves
And in the dawning recompense of loss.

			Yea, I have found Thee, God !
Thy breath doth fill me with a fire divine—
	And were a thousand worlds like this my foes,
The battle would be brief—the victory mine!
		MARIE CORRELLI in The May Book.


LITTLE THINGS.
A little act of kindness, a gentle tone of love.
Oft lifts the heart from sadness, oft leads the soul
	above.
As little buds and blossoms expand to beauteous
	flowers,
So all the little moments grow into longer hours.
Our little faults and failings oft lead to greater
	wrong,
Till vain regret and wailings, remorse and pain
	prolong,
But constant little efforts will every fault subdue,
And lead to grand perfection, and joys our path-
	way strew.
Our fervent, lone petitions, though scarce above a
	breath.
Have reached to holy mansions, have stayed the
	hand of death.
Thus time in fleeting numbers, glides onward day
	by day,
Till myriad generations have slowly passed away.
So little bars of music beneath a master’s stroke,
Have swelled to pealing anthems, and inspirations
	woke.
To humble vain ambition, to moisten weary eyes,
While hearts with benedictions, mount upward to
	the skies.
The earth and sky and ocean and all which they,
	contain,
Had birth in tiny atoms, which dormant long had
	lain,
Sweet music, flowers and sunshine, life’s hopes and
	joys and loves,
Are glimpses of Elysian that we shall find
	above.
						ELLIS R. SHIPP.


[Column 1]
VISIT TO CANADA.
Dear Exponent:
	Sister Susan Grant and myself left Salt
Lake City for Canada on the evening of
Thursday, May 23, 1901. The mission
before us was to visit the different branches
of the Relief Society and Primary Asso-
ciation in the Alberta Stake of Zion.
	Yesterday, July 11, we completed that
mission, holding our last official meeting
with the Relief Society in Ætna. We held
meetings in nine settlements, namely,
Ætna, Cardston, Caldwell, Kimball, Leav-
itt, Magrath, Mountain View, Sterling and
Taylor. Beazer, a small, widely scattered
ward, has as yet no Relief Society or
Primary organization. We would have
been glad to visit there, however, and but
for stormy weather and bad roads, which
have hindered our work to some extent,
should likely have had the privilege of
doing so.
	Of the work being done in the Relief
Society here, we have certainly only good
to report. Never has it been our good for-
tune to find truer or more energetic work-
ers in the cause than those who are en-
gaged in it in this locality.
	Sister Mary L. Woolf possesses in
truth and in a very high degree the spirit
of her calling as president of the Relief
Society in this Stake. The faith, courage,
patience and wisdom which she exhibits in
her work, seem to be so heartily approved,
supported and emulated by all who are
laboring in connection with her, that a
most perfect unity appears to be maintained
in all their undertakings, and they under-
take a vast amount of work for the pro-
gress of the kingdom of God, as well as the
world in general, where occasion offers.
	What more need be presented to show a
good and healthy state of affairs in any
organization?
	They have taken hold of the idea of the
Woman’s Building soon to be erected near
the Temple in Salt Lake City, with a zest
which promises well for the assistance they
expect to render towards its completion.
And that is the way they seem to grasp and
carry out every plan which is presented for
the furtherance of the good cause.
	Realizing that a short report will be read
by more people and with greater interest
than a lengthy one, while much more
might be told of the meritorious work being
done by the society here, I will conclude
this with the following lines.

	TO SISTER SUSAN GRANT.
My Sister! These dear days we spent together,
	Soon but a happy memory will be;
Fatigue and sacrifice and stormy weather,
	Will all be counted good, with you and me.

I know and love you better since this mission,
	Has proven you most prudent and sincere;
Your even, kind and pleasant disposition,
	Inspiring faith and hope brings joyous cheer.

How oft shall we recall the happy hours
	We pass in riding o’er this broad, fair land;
its dearth of trees, but wealth of grass and
		flowers,
	Its mountains far away, yet bold and grand.

[Column 2]
Oft will we muse with tender recollections
	Of meetings, sociables, the warm regards,
The hospitality of friends, connections—
	Woolfs, Allens, Hinmans, Duces, Hammers,
		Cards.
And many more, too numerous to mention,
	Old friends and new, who have much kindness.
		shown;
And better still, such strict and wrapt attention
	To Gospel truths—God’s cause is made their
		own.
Such true brave Saints! We’re thankful we have 
		met them,
	And for the season we among them spend,
In all our lives we never can forget them,
	More than each other, my dear, loving friend. 
One question rises; have we filled this mission
	As faithfully and truly as we should?
They answer, “Yes,” so small their requisition, 
	They claim we’ve strengthened, blest and done
		them good.
			LOUISA L. GREENE RICHARDS.


A WOMAN MISSIONARY. 
	[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands
1850.]
			(Continued.)
	There is a grandeur in the sound of the
sea which seems to soothe the soul when
some one would intrude. It bears witness
of the Creator’s works.
	Last night the sick woman died. She
was laid out on clean grass, a white spread
thrown over her. Her face was not covered.
Some one sat with a large leaf to keep off
the flies. The coffin was made of a canoe
of tamana wood, (island mahogany) in
which she was laid after being wrapt thick-
ly in native cloth. A thick plank was
nailed on for a cover, outside the coffin
unnumbered thicknesses of cloth were
wound, native and European. The coffin
being of the most imperishable wood wrapt
in such a quantity of cloth, will not, in my
opinion, decay in fifty years. A great
feast was made by the relatives from which
all the people in the village received a
portion. The corpse was carried away on 
men’s shoulders without ceremony.
	Last evening we spent two hours in
gazing at the moon, expressing our sur-
prise at her singular appearance One 
part was red like blood emitting no light
at all, though nearly at the full. Brother
Alexander being a superstitious man pro-
nounced it a forerunner of evil. Told the
people with whom we were stopping it
was an omen of something strange to take
place. So long had we been away from
the world, and not having seen an alman-
ac in two years, we had forgotten there
was ever such a thing as an eclipse.
When it rushed upon our minds we were 
ashamed that we had not known it at first. 
We then explained all to the ignorant peo-
ple and their fears were removed.
	This morning I rose before the day
dawned and went to walk upon the beach.
The moon was shining with the most re-
splendent brightness. There was the very
stillness of death around me. All the
dwellings were fast locked in slumber, the 
tide had just receded far on the reef,
scarcely a breeze to be felt. The atmos-


[Column 1]
phere was calm as the sweet breath of
autumn but, oh, so solemn I gazed over 
the mighty ocean towards that land so far
away, and I seemed to feel that I had died
and gone to an unknown world.
	I at first thought I would raise my voice
in song, a morning hymn; but it seemed an
intrusion, on the sacredness of the hour to
make the least noise. I felt that secret
prayer was more congenial to the deathlike
stillness of that little world in the midst of
the mighty ocean. I revolved in my mind
the self-denial of my whole life, and said,
“If my Heavenly Father is pleased with
the little good I have done, all my sorrows
will be forgotten.”
	The 9th day. Last evening we moved
into the house Brother Alexander has been
several days preparing for us. It is a large
house all in one room, built in ancient
style, round ends. Three pillars in the
centre are covered with carved work curi-
ously wrought. The house is whitened
with coral lime inside and out, long grass
laid for a floor on which mats are spread.
Five high post bedsteads curtained around
with fine white tapa. A very long table
made from a tree which floated here from
some island, the leaf more than three feet
wide without a seam.
	The building is almost entirely shaded
with trees, large and covered with flowers,
their fragrance is delightful. Five rods
from the door the grand o’d tide rolls out
and in. A lover of nature could not help
admiring this situation. Nothing but the
want of society is felt here. The good peo-
ple sent us in food to last us a week, cooked
ready for use and nicely tied up in leaves.
	This morning I took a long walk to see
an old hollow tree which is reported to
have been in the “taueteni” the abode of a
man who was pursued by his enemies, a
whole year, and was fed by a sister. Nine
of us entered the tree together, had room
to move about. Two branches of equal
size supported by the middle are hollow,
and there are openings from one to the
other, so the man could change his position
when wearied with his confinement.
	From the tree we were conducted by
Alexander to one of the old “morai’s”
places of worship in the “taueteni.” It
consists of huge stones set up in the form
of a square room. One very high above the
rest they worshiped as God. Flat stones
are laid upon the ground, under which the
heads of their enemies are buried, sacrificed
to their gods A dense growth of cocoa
nuts overshadowed the place. We rested
beneath the cooling shade, drank freely of
the water and pursued our journey. Called
at a native house where everything was
neat and clean. A young woman was
seated on a mat with a babe in her arms.
We conversed with her in the Tahitian
tongue and she treated us to beauiful pine
apples.
	From thence we started on our way
home.  Not far had we gone when a mes-
senger met us with the joyful intelligence
that the Ravai was in port and “Paraita”
was on board.
	The two eldest daughters were far in the
rear. The messenger passed us and car-
ried the news to them. Quick and hasty
were their footsteps till they reached the
house and met their father. Now, they
exclaimed, our wishes are realized. When
the house was fitted up we felt it would
avail us nothing without company. We
were informed the vessel had encountered
three severe gales of wind since it left this

[Column 2]
port; did not make Tahiti, neither the chain
Islands, except Ana and Matea.
	The 11th day. Paraita preached three
times in the native language. The people
all appeared joyful on hearing the voice of
their missionary once more. 
			(Continued.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting was
held in the 14th Ward Hall, July 6, 1901,
President M. I. Horne presiding.
	Singing, “Arise, O glorious Zion.”
Prayer by Sister C. C. Cannon. Singing,
“O, say what is truth.” Minutes read and
approved.
	President Horne felt sorry we could not
hold the quarterly conference at the usual
time, but the house was undergoing repair
and could not be made ready. Felt happy
that our sister missionaries were doing so
good a work. President Lyman, who has
just returned from the British mission,
spoke of the good work the sister mission-
aries were doing there. Believed Christian
Science to be a strong delusion that is lead-
ing many away.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder, who has just re-
turned from a two years’ mission in Great
Britain, felt the faith of the sisters here had
helped her in her missionary work. She
had found many good women who were
trying to find the truth, but the ministers
have a great influence over them. It is
very hard to reach them, they are so pre-
judiced against the word “Mormon,” but
some were glad to hear from the women in
Mormondom. The Lord is the one who
makes converts, it requires the mission-
aries to be faithful, prayerful, fast and thus
sow the seed. She desired the sisters to lay
their burdens at the feet of the Lord, and
after you have done your part do not mur-
mur Found the Relief Society in Ger-
many in a more prosperous condition than
elsewhere, said they were warm-hearted
and kind to the missionaries. People gen-
erally do not believe that men and women
will go into the world and preach this un-
popular doctrine without pay. Alluded to
the influence of women, how they were
branded by refusing a cup of tea or beer.
Spoke of the wicked spirit Mrs. Stenhouse’s
book brought to those who read it; also of
the evil influence Jarman people brought to
bear against us, they tell the most un-
reasonable lies. However there are a few
who will embrace the Gospel. Referred to
the bravery it takes to fight against error.
Thought she never honored her father so
much as when she thought of his departing
from his old home and following those who
had the true Gospel Felt she had re-
moved much prejudice among her father’s
family, that she had visited all the confer-
ences, and women that it was possible to
meet; that she had enjoyed her mission more
than she could express; had realized the
joy a little money brought to the mission-
aries in relieving their little wants. “Zion
is Zion” to those who make it such. The
spirit of the Gospel out in the world is one
of union and love. Exhorted all to live
righteously and love each other.
	Sister Pond spoke of the prejudice among
her relatives in the East, and of the good-
ness of the sisters to the missionaries
in the world. Told of her exper-
ience in bearing testimony to people in the
world and of their prejudices.
	Counselor Elizabeth Stevenson said Sis-

[Column 2]
ter Alder’s experience was very similar to
her own. The world thought the women
of Zion were down-trodden. Spoke of the
way “Mormons” are pointed at with a
finger of scorn by the people of the world,
and of the good that could be accomplished
among them; thought Lucy B Young was
doing a great deal of good in Germany,
though she is more than seventy years of
age.
	President M. I. Horne said the reason
we meet on Saturday is when Jordan
and Granite Stakes belonged to Salt Lake,
that it was a more convenient day for
women to meet here. In Granite Stake all
the branches of the Relief Society meet on
Thursdays. Would like all to pay their
dues within two weeks if possible. An-
nounced an excursion for next Tuesday to
Saltair, by the General Relief Society.
	Singing, Doxology. Benediction by J.
S. Woolley.
			J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.


PIONEER DAY IN CHICAGO.
	We are quite sure our readers will be
glad to know that Pioneer Day, July 24, 1901,
was appropriately celebrated by the few
Utah people who are at present located in
the great city of Chicago. It must have
been a very pleasing program, by the notes
of it we have seen, and it shows how some
educators who have come into our midst
have been impressed with our institutions
and our people.
	Col. Parker, who taught a summer
school in Provo, at the B. Y. Academy ten
years ago or more, and other members of
the faculty of the Chicago University, were
present by invitation at the Utah gather-
ing on Pioneer day, and Col. Parker ad-
dressed the audience. The following para-
graphs are taken from the report made to
the Deseret Evening News, of this city.

	Among the enjoyable features of the program
may be mentioned the song, “Utah, we love
thee.” by the whole company; a recitation by
Miss Maud May Babcock; a short address upon
Utah schools, by Mosiah Hall; The Chicago
University, by Guy C. Wilson; The Western Girl,
by Miss Bush a recitation by Miss Alexander;
two male quartetts by our missionaries and an
oration, “The Pioneers,” by N. J. Porter, which
was particularly fine.
	Col. Parker in a very happy mood described his
labors in Utah nine years ago, and closed a most
complimentary address by an impressive and elo-
quent prophecy, that the descendants of those
Pioneers, whose exploits we were commemorating,
would yet occupy heights in intellectual and moral
superiority in the world far greater than the alti-
tude of their mountain homes might symbolize.
	He was deeply impressed with the sturdy vir-
tues of the people whose contact with him quickly
brushed away his former prejudice and planted in
his heart a deep and abiding love and respect for
them.
	He was followed by Miss Ziona Baber and
Miss Flora J. Cooke, both of whom had labored
in Utah at summer schools for teachers. The
many Utah teachers who listened to them when
there will be pleased to know that the most
pleasing and vivid impressions were made upon
their minds while in Utah, and Miss Baber related
at length to the writer the delightful time she had
while in Utah.
	She lived with Aunt Zina Young during her so-
journ there, and learned much of the domestic life
of the Latter-day Saints, which impressed her
favorably in the highest degree. She mentioned
with the greatest admiration the children of men
who had more than one wife, as admirable types
physically and intellectually, and freely admitted
that Mormon domestic relations had been greatly
misrepresented and misunderstood.


Miss Alice Stone Blackwell returned to
Boston yesterday from her summer’s out-
ing at Martha’s Vineyard.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


DAYS AND DEEDS THAT LIVE

There are days that never die,
	And stories never told,
Of a happiness gone by
	Deep in the heart we hold
Their meaning, and we linger,
	Along life’s pleasant way,
We do not stop to tell them.
	To others day by day.

We might make others free 
	Of grief, if we would speak,
And whisper something joyous
	Unto the sad, the weak;
The heart oft grows aweary, 
	Is ready nigh to break, 
Yet we withhold a blessing, 
	Some soul would gladly take.

Another day we wander, 
	Some sympathy bestow
On some sad, lonely object, 
	Our heart is all aglow;
A happiness in serving,
	To help a lift along—
To carry part the burden
	That they may sing a song. 

The confidence is shaken,
	For some will chide us sore
And wonder why we meddle,
	Bid us do so no more.
’Tis then, the heart gets weary—
	The next weak object found,
We doubt them lest our motive,
	Be crushed unto the ground.

But blessings often brighten 
	When taking flight, we’re told,  
Love is so much the better, 
	And charity, than gold;
We may meet at the Roll call
	Of Jesus, courage take,
While here, help one another,
	He’ll bless them for our sake.

As strife is stirred by hatred, 
	And Love doth cover sin,
Be then friends to the friendless,
	Now is the time, begin;
With earnest feeling, praying
	Speaking that word of cheer,
I know God will repay us,
	While we are drifting here.

	ZINA ELIZABETH WALKER.
1901.


INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL NOTES. 
	The annual executive session of the
International Council of Women was held
at the Hague, July 10, and 11. A report by
cable testifies to a successful and interest-
ing session, presided over by the vice-
president, Lady Aberdeen. At this ex-
ecutive the National Councils of France
and the Argentina formed during the past
year, were received into membership in
the International.
	Since the adjournment of the Interna-
tional Council news has come from Bul-
garia of the successful organization, after
two years of preliminary effort, of a Nation-
al Council of Women of that country, with
an application for affiliation with the
International Council. The application
came too late to be acted upon at The
Hague, but the president of the Inter-
national Council will at once send for the
written ballots of the presidents of National
Councils, that Bulgaria may come in as a
peer with the other nations in this inter-
national band.
	Through the courtesy of the Board of
Women. Managers of the Pan-American
Exposition at Buffalo, the International
Council of Women opened a headquarters
in the Women’s Club House on the
Exposition grounds on August 7, to con-
tinue during the months of August and
September. This bureau of information
will be open daily from 11 to 12 o’clock a.
m. Beginning with August 7, weekly
conferences will be held on successive


Wednesdays. The subject will be “Inter-
nationalism and its Promotion by the
Council Idea.” No programs will be
printed for these conferences, but all visitors
at the Pan-American Exposition interested
in the progressive work of women will be
welcomed, and speakers from different
parts of our own country, from Canada,
and from the different states of South and
Central America, will discuss the subject
above named, each from her own point of
view as modified by her nationality and the
needs of her own country.
	The Council stands always for friendly,
co operative nationalism. It is intended to
make these conferences a means of stimu-
lating increased interest in organization as
a method of promoting good work in South
and Central America. The successful
organization of the National Council of
Women of Argentina, which on June 9th
voted unanimously for affiliation with the
International Council, augurs the success
of the Council method in the states of
South America.


[Column 1]
SUCCESSFUL CELEBRATION.
	The Relief Society of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was or-
ganized on the 17th of March, 1842, by the
Prophet Joseph Smith. Of course this day
is remembered in a fitting manner by the
several branches of the society as each year
rolls around.
	To this rule, we are pleased to say, the
Relief Society of the Hamburg, Germany,
branch of the Church was no exception,
and accordingly had a program and enter-
tainment arranged to take place as a fitting
commemoration of the 59th anniversary of
its organization on the date above given,
and in the year of our Lord 1901. Sunday
falling on 17th of the month, and the regu-
lar meeting day of the members of the
society being Tuesday, it was decided to
hold the entertainment on the 19th instead
of the 17th.
	The Relief Society of Hamburg, like
most societies in the world, and away from
the bulk of the people of the Church, labor
under many unfavorable conditions and
disadvantages. None the less, in spite of
all opposition it has grown, through the
faithful work of its members to be the
largest Relief Society in Germany. The
society stands at present on a strong found-
ation, and has a very bright future before
it.
	On the occasion above mentioned the
guest of honor was our worthy sister, Lucy
B. Young, the president of all the societies
in Germany. It was indeed a great pleas-
ure both to Saints and Elders of the branch
to have Sister Young in their midst and en-
joy her company in a social as well as in
an official way.
	As before stated this concert was held to
celebrate the organization of the Relief
Society. It had also another object no less
worthy, which was to gather in old and
make new friends, that they might all hear
something of the message for which so
many of the Elders are now laboring to
promulgate in this and other fields.
	It was felt by those present that both
objects were admirably attained, particular-
ly the latter, inasmuch as there were a
large number of new friends present, some
of whom are now faithful members who then
visited the meeting for the first time
	The program as rendered was as follows;

[Column 2]
Song, “Tochter-Zions,” choir. Prayer,
the president Sister Eblers. “Song of the Re-
deemed,” choir. Speech, Conference
President C. P. Ferrin. Speech, Sister
Lucy B. Young, translated by Brother R.
P. Haag. Piano solo, Elder Spencer C.
Clawson., Jr. Tenor solo, “If thou didst
love me.” E. P. Ferrin. Violin solo, Frau
Salzuebrod. Speech, Brother R. T. Haag.
Song, “The Beautiful City, choir. Clos- 
ing prayer, First Counselor Marie Krain-
acke.
	The eighth number on the program was
rendered by a friend who is an accomplished
violinist. A hearty encore was tendered the
performer, to which she responded.
	At the close of the program the chairs in
the hall were quickly carried to an adjoin-
ing room and gave place to tables spread
with the dainty repast of “Mormon coffee,”
cakes and sandwiches. Those present
were not long in availing themselves of the
feast, and soon the sandwiches were but a
memory.
	The people did not vanish with the ban-
quet, however, but remained to hear a few
impromptu numbers from the choir and a 
few remarks by Brother R. T. Haag. The
early hour of one a. m. saw the last of the
guests under way for home and a good but
short night’s rest which it is hoped they all
enjoyed.
			CHARITON P. FERRIN,
					Per W. C. M. 
	Berlin, July 19, 1901.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mrs. Colby, Miss Muller and Mrs Maril-
la M. Ricker, the latter the well known
attorney of New Hampshire, are spending
the summer in California.
	After the great suffrage meeting in Buf-
falo, September 9 and 10, there will be a
conference September 11 and 12, and on
September 13 Mrs. Sewall and Mrs. Fannie
Humphreys Gaffney are planning a large 
meeting in the interest of the Woman’s 
Council.
	Mrs. Craigie (John Oliver Hobbs) has 
just been elected a member of the Council
of the Authors’ Society. She is the fifth
woman thus honored, the others being the
late Charlotte Yonge, Mrs. Humphrey 
Ward, Flora Shaw and the late Eleanor A.
Ormerod.
	Senorita Ysabel Maria De Los Rios, is
the first woman postmaster in Cuba. She
now holds a commission to handle the 
mail at Gibra. She received a salary of
$1,200 as clerk in the office She displayed
such executive ability that her appointment
to take charge of it meets with the fullest
approval of the department and patrons of
the office.
	Mrs. May Wright Sewall opened head-
quarters and presided at a meeting of
women at the Women’s Administration
Building at the Pan-American Exposition
on August 7, and during the rest of the
month will hold weekly conferences there,
the immediate object of which is to explain
the work of the International Council to the
representatives of countries of South and
Central America who visit the Buffalo Ex-
position, and to interest them to form
National Councils, in their respective coun-
tries, and ultimately affiliate with the inter-
national organization.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	dvertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal di-
c[-]unt to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p.m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER, 1901.


[Column 1]
	OUR BELOVED PRESIDENT,
		ZINA D. H. YOUNG.

“The loved and lost, why do we call them lost,
Because we miss them from our onward road?
God’s unseen angel o’er our pathway crossed
Looked on us all and loving her the most,
Straightway relieved her from life’s weary load.
“They are not lost; they are within the door
That shuts out loss, and every hurtful thing—
With angels bright and loved ones gone before;
In their Redeemer’s presence evermore;
And God himself their Lord and Judge and King.”

	There are no words to express the sorrow
one feels when a beloved friend passes
away, and yet we all realize we have no
cause to mourn for them but only for the
loss it is to those who remain.
	Sister Zina, whose demise we now re-
cord, was one who will be missed in the
community by all the people, and in the
Relief Society, of the Church, the largest
organization of women there is, and the
one first organized now in its sixtieth
year, she will be missed for her counsel,
her sympathy and all those noble and kind-
ly qualities of heart and soul that help to
bind together, encourage and uplift all
those who have a membership therein.
	Aunt Zina’s presence everywhere was
like a benediction. She possessed in a
large degree those endearing and genial
characteristics that inspire and strengthen
human affection, as well as the exalted
attributes that lift the soul to higher things
than the ordinary affairs of every day life.
Perhaps no woman in the Church had
more intense sympathy with sorrow and
suffering, and she was often significantly
spoken of as “Zina, the Comforter,” an
appellation well merited. Added to this
she had that rare intuition in emergencies
to know just what to do, as well as to
soothe and assuage grief. This presence of
mind and inspirational gift in times of
severe illness or of accident, together with
great faith in administering to the sick,
made her invaluable wherever her help
and assistance could be obtained. She
was sent for, far and near, when there was
affliction, grief or death in the households
of the Saints, and even by those not of the
same faith. No wonder her body was
worn out by fatigue, for she, too, was only
human physically, after all, and yet she
carried the burdens and sorrows of others
uncomplainingly to the very last.
	Sister Young was a highly gifted
woman in many directions, inspirational
and eloquent. As a natural speaker she
could not be surpassed, her words flowed

[Column 2]
from her lips free and easy whenever she
arose to address an audience, and she had
that wonderful faculty of carrying her hear-
ers along with her; they felt the power of
her sublime earnestness and never wearied
of listening.
	Her tenderness of manner, as well as of
heart was always apparent She was full
of love, the most admirable traits of
womanly character and virtues were notic-
ably exemplified throughout her life.
Obedience to authority, especially that of
the priesthood, great humility, faith and
integrity to principle, true unto death;
firm in her convictions as the everlasting
hills, yet abounding in charity, that true
“charity that never faileth”
	It is difficult to tell in what special vir-
tue she most excelled, and we do not all
see alike. Some of her dearest friends say
faith was her strongest characteristic,
others, sympathy, and again others,
charity, and still others humility. One
dear friend speaks of these qualifications
as Aunt Zina’s jewels, Faith, Love and
Charity.
	Volumes might be written of her life and
experiences, but we can only give very little
in an article like this. It was given her to
be greatly beloved by the masses of the
people; and thousands, and tens of thou-
sands, perhaps, have sought her counsel
and been blest in taking her motherly ad-
vice. But she has gone from our sight,
and we shall miss her Madonna face and
motherly advice in our meetings. For
years she has been the one woman whom
we all sought after and delighted to honor,
and it will be hard indeed for some of us
who have been so long and so closely as-
sociated with her to accustom ourselves to
her absence. One by one the veterans of
the Church are being called home. Many
of the men and women associated with
Sister Zina in Kirtland, Missouri, and
Nauvoo, have long since departed, and
now she, too, has gone to join that in-
numerable company on the other side.
	Sister Zina, as she is affectionately called
by thousands of people, has undoubtedly
finished the work assigned her to do upon
this earth, and has certainly made a
glorious record. It has been said of her
over and over again that she was one of the
choice spirits reserved to come in this day
and age of the world, to assist in the estab-
lishment of the Latter-day work. And
this mission she has filled with honor and
credit to herself and entire satisfaction to
all who know her life work. A beautiful
life, complete and well-rounded.

“O, selfish sorrow of selfish hearts!”

	O, we of little faith! who mourn for one
whose tired feet have reached that beau-
teous shore, and joined the “Choir Invis-
ble.” Sister Zina has fought the good
fight, kept the faith, and has received all
the blessings, gifts and powers that entitle
her to an endless life in the celestial king-
dom. All this we know and realize, but,
alas, we are human and our hearts ache for
the love she bestowed so lavishly upon her
friends. We poor wayfarers must still
struggle on and try to believe and follow
her righteous example and say with the
poet:

“We will do likewise, death hath made no breach
	In love and sympathy, in hope and trust,
No outward sign or sound our ears can reach,
But there’s an inward, spiritual speech
	That greets us still, though mortal tongue be
		dust,”

[Column 3]
	President Zina D. H. Young, of whose
life we give a brief sketch, departed this
life at her own home in this city, on
Wednesday morning, 8:55, August
28, 1901, at the ripe age of eighty years,
six months and twenty-eight days.
	It may truthfully be said of her that she
fell asleep peacefully and breathed her last
without a struggle. On June 27 she left
this city, accompanied by her son, Chari-
ton to visit her daughter in Canada, and
while there enjoyed herself very much,
visiting with the members of her immediate
family, children, grandchildren and great-
grandchildren, also beloved brethren and
sisters in that locality. After about two
months pleasantly passed she expressed a
wish to come home and the journey was
planned. She was to come with Brother
and Sister Levi W. Richards, but on the
morning of starting she was taken sudden-
ly ill and her daughter, Sister Zina Y.
Card, felt she, too, must come with her.
	Sister Zina became unconscious about the
time they left Spring Coolie, on the border
of Canada, and remained in that comatose
condition until she passed into the spirit
world. That an escort of loved ones from
behind the veil accompanied her to the
place prepared, we who know her cannot
doubt.
	O, for one glimpse of her beautiful face,
one gentle clasp of her tender, sympathetic
hands, one loving embrace, but that is not
possible until we meet in the great hereafter.
	The funeral services and other reminis-
cences will be published in the next issue
of the EXPONENT.
		BIOGRAPHICAL.
	Zina Diantha Huntington was born Jan-
uary 31, 1821, in Watertown, Jefferson
County, New York. Her parents were
William and Diantha (Baker) Huntington.
The Huntingtons and the Bakers are both
old New England families, so that Sister
Zina was, like many other early members
of the Church, purely New England origin.
Her father was a patriot and fought in the
war of 1812, and her grandfather, William
Huntington was a Revolutionary soldier,
and Samuel Huntington, one of the signers
of the Declaration of Independence, was his
uncle. The genealogical record reads
“Simon Huntington, Puritan immigrant,
sailed for America in 1633. He died at
sea, but left three sons and his widow Mar-
garet.”
	The church records of Roxbury, Mass.,
contain the earliest records of the Hunting-
ton name known in New England, and is
in the handwriting of the Rev. John Elliot
himself, the pastor of that ancient church.
“Margaret Huntington (widow) came in
1833, her husband died by the way of small
pox; she brought children with her.” Wm.
Huntington, grandfather of Aunt Zina,
married Presendia Lathrop, and the Lath-
rop’s, too, were of the old New England
families.
	The Huntington’s embraced the Gospel
in Watertown, New York, and their
daughter, Zina, was baptized by Patriarch
Hyrum Smith, August 14, 1835, and soon
after the family moved to Kirtland. The
same year Sister Zina received the gift of
tongues; and it was also in Kirtland she
received the gift of interpretation, and no
woman in all Israel ever had that gift more
perfect, as thousands can testify. Her
spiritual faculties were very highly devel-


[Column 1]
oped even in that early time, and she heard,
on one occasion, in the Kirtland Temple, a
whole invisible choir of angels singing, till
the house was filled with numberless voices.
She was also a member of the Kirtland
Temple choir, very few of the members are
now living. She was also present on the
memorable Pentecost when the spirit of
God filled the house like a mighty, rushing
wind.
	The Huntingtons were among the Saints
who went up to Missouri and suffered in
those terrible persecutions of the people;
her mother died during that eventful period
from fatigue and privation, and only two
of the family were able to follow her re-
mains to its last resting place. Sister Zina
came with her father and other members of
the family when driven from Missouri,
across to Nauvoo, then called Commerce.
They were all sick, and she has often
spoken in terms of endearment of the kind-
ness of Sister Emma Smith, wife of the
Prophet Joseph, who ministered to their
wants during this trying time of sickness
and trouble.
	In Nauvoo Sister Zina received and
obeyed the principle of plural marriage,
and after the martyrdom of the Prophet,
when the Nauvoo Temple was finished for
ordinances, she was united in marriage for
time to Brigham Young, and with the
Saints left Nauvoo in the month of Febru-
ary, crossing the Mississippi river on the ice.
and enduring untold hardships on account
of her delicate health and the inclemency of
the weather. Arriving at Mt. Pisgah, a
resting place for the exiles, Father Hunt-
ington was called to preside, and his daugh-
ter, Zina, remained with him temporarily.
Sickness was prevalent, many of the Saints
died and were buried under the most trying
circumstances. Father Huntington was
one of that number, and after that was
over, and Sister Zina had seen her father laid
away, she came on to Winter Quarters
and resided there until the body of the
Saints who had sojourned in the Pottawat-
tamie country until President Brigham
Young, after his return with the Pioneers,
started with his family in the spring of
1848 for the Salt Lake valley.
	Here our beloved Sister Zina passed her
time in works of love though living
in tents and wagons until log houses were
built, and in one of these, her daughter,
Zina, was born, April 3, 1850.
	Sister Zina lived many years in the
famous Lion House, and was, in fact, and
in very deed, a Mother in the family
especially in all times of sickness, whether
of children or grown people. She has ever
been one to lean upon, a pillar of strength
to others, beside her own. Although her
own immediate family was not very large
only three children, to her was given the
care of four of President Young’s children
whose mother died, and for these her love
went out as to her very own, and she
trained them up in the same tender affec-
tion and solicitude as her very own, and as
a, mother they hold her in the highest rev-
erence and cherish for her the most sublime
and dutiful love and feeling.
	To tell of a tithe of what this noble hero-
ine has done would more than fill these
pages, but we must add a word or two con-
cerning her public labors.
	She studied obstetrics and nursing under
Dr. Willard Richards and practised for
many years successfully. When the Re-
lief Society was temporarily organized after
her arriyal in Salt Lake she became one of

[Column 2]
its first officers and a devoted worker. When
the silk industry was introduced she was
among the first to attempt experimental
sericulture, and has done more to promote
that industry in Utah and among this peo-
ple than any other person. It has been a
subject in which she never lost interest.
	When the Relief Society was permanent-
ly reorganized throughout the various
wards, President Young called Sister Eliza R.
Snow and Sister Zina D. H. Young to look
after the organization. They traveled to-
gether in this interest throughout the settle-
ments wherever wards were organized, and
when the Retrenchment Associations were
inaugurated and Sister M. Isabella Horne
was called to preside she chose as her first
counselors Sister Eliza R. Snow and Sister
Zina D. H. Young. Later when the
young women were organized Sister Eliza
and Sister Zina were called by President
Young to lead out again in that work.
	Sister Zina has also been an efficient Sun-
day School teacher for forty years and more
until her numerous duties in other direc-
tions required all her strength. In the or-
ganization of the Primary Associations she
manifested the same disinterested zeal and
earnestness that has characterized her
whole life, and in every movement for the
betterment of the human race.
	Sister Zina’s travels have extended be-
yond the Stakes of Zion. During the
summer of 1879 she visited the Sand-
wich Islands, partly for her health.
She was accompanied by Miss Susa Young,
and had the opportunity of meeting several
celebrated people and imparting reliable
information concerning our principles and
our people, and she also was a blessing to
the Hawaiian sisters and they were proud to
honor her and show her reverence. In
1881 she visited relatives in New York and
Vermont, her son, then Lieutenant now
Colonel Willard Young, accompanying her.
During her absence she attended the
Woman’s Congress in Buffalo, Woman’s
Suffrage Convention in New York City and
organized a Relief Society in Cohoes
Albany Co., N. Y. She had the privilege of
speaking at many public gatherings and
was made the guest of honor on several oc-
casions. In 1882, accompanied by the
writer, she represented Utah at the Na-
tional Suffrage Convention held in
Omaha. At the time of the World’s Colum-
bian Exposition in Chicago, 1893, Sister
Young attended the great Congresses of
women in that city, and presided at a De-
partment meeting of her own Society, and
made a most favorable impression, upon
many of the leading women, by her gentle,
winning manner, notably Isabella Beecher
Hooker, May Wright Sewall and Elizabeth
Lisle Saxon.
	At the Congress of Charities and Phil-
anthropies she was shown very marked at-
tention, and she was a conspicuous figure
at the National Council on the Sabbath
day, sitting among the woman ministers on
the public platform.
	After some weeks spent in Chicago visit-
ing the various buildings and attending
Congresses, Sister Young, accompanied by
her brother, Oliver Huntington, again
visited her birthplace and its environs, in
the State of New York, and collected some
further genealogical material.
	It would scarcely be possible to live a
more active and busy life than Sister Zina’s
has been and each year has added wisdom
and grace to her refined character and man-
ner. Words are inadequate to express her

[Column 3]
nobility and her true womanliness. She
has gone from our midst, we cannot see
her angelic face smiling upon us, nor hear
her sweet voice in blessing or prayer, nor
can she come to us in sickness as she was
wont to do. But we know she is happy,
happy beyond expression. And we who
remain must bear our loss with patience
and resignation.

	The golden dawn of the Day of God
		Shall smite on the sealed eyes,
	The trumpets sound shall thunder around,
		The dreamers shall wake and rise.

	When the night is over, the sleep is slep
		They are called from the shadowy pla
	The Pilgrims stand in the glorious land
		And gaze on the Master’s face.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LITTLE MARIAN’S BIRTHDAY PARTY.
	Children’s parties are very much the
fashion nowadays, in fact the little folks
have a great deal of amusement and play-
time since Kindergartens have come to be
so popular in this country.
	Marian’s party was a great success, out
on a beautiful lawn, under the shade trees,
where about thirty little girls from three
years to five, all in dainty summer gowns,
were blowing bubbles and blowing horns,
swinging in hammocks, and so forth, laugh-
ing, talking and entertaining each other,
while the older sisters helped, with the
playing of games, and mammas gazed at
them through the open windows and door-
ways.
	By and by Marian’s papa came with a
kodak and took a few snap shots as they
were grouped carelessly around. At five
o’clock they were seated at table and served
with goodies that children delight in, and
it was interesting to watch them and see
how social and free from restraint they
were, and what interest they took in each
other, and it was indeed a very charming
picture. Then there were souvenir cards,
hand-painted, with ribbons attached on a
tray, with blank side up, from which each
little girl drew one with the ribbon, a very
unique way of distributing the cards.
	But after all the most fun seemed to be
in blowing bubbles.

“By sports like these are all their cares beguiled
	The sports of children satisify the child.”

	Marian was three years old on the day of
her party, Friday, August 2, 1901, but she
will be sure to remember it.
	Those invited were Helen and Dorothy
Spencer, Helen. Talbot, Hattie Parker-
Mary and Ruth Taylor, Dorothy Palmer,
Martha and Florence Wells, Katharine
Cannon, Emily Grant, Hortense Pratt,
Edith and Louise Wells, Alma Cannon,
Helen Knowlton, Louise and Marian Eller-
beck, Marie Dougall, Emily Young,
Florence Ware, Ruth Spence, May Cart-
wright, Geneva Wells, Margaret and
Katharine Marshall, Phillis and Fannie
Lynch, Marian Whitney, Libbie and Ruth
Wells, Louisa and Miriam Wells, Mary
Johnson, Lucile Buchholz, Florence and
Irene McDonald and Helen Godbe.
	The older ones, who assisted were Alice
and Mary Wells, Grace Grant, Emmeline
Cannon, Josephine Cannon, Ethel Liddle,
Chloe Burns, May Bigelow; Mesdames Etta
Ellerbeck. Cynthia Spence, Susie Wells,
Josephine Pratt, Alley Marshall, Blanche Par-
ker Edith Knowlton; also Annie and AdaCan-
non, Alta Godbe, Isabel Buchholz, and E. B.
Wells; the host and hostess of the party,
Mr. and Mrs. S. W. Sears, at whose home


it was given and the little “guest of honor,”
Marian Buchholz.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


WEDDING RECEPTION.

	On Wednesday, August 15, 1901, Miss
Bardella Shipp and Mr. Theodore Edward
Curtis were married in the Salt Lake Tem-
ple, the marriage ceremony being per-
formed by Bishop John R. Winder. In
the evening a delightful reception was
given at the home of the bride, on Main
Street. The rooms were tastefully decor-
ated and music and song, interspersed with
comic recitations, added to the enjoyment
of the interesting occasion.
	The bride was most becomingly gowned
in white silk, with pearl and lace trim-
mings, and carried a bouquet of long stem-
med white roses, half-blown, a white rose
or two fastened in her dark tresses instead
of the regulation orange blossoms, was
very pretty and piquant, and we need not
add, as the fact is well known; brides are
always beautiful and exceedingly interest-
ing.
	Dainty refreshments were served to the
guests by beautiful young girls of sixteen
and seventeen in pretty costumes, of
which pink seemed the prevailing color.
	Main Street was ablaze, as it were, with
the red lights which shone through the
open windows of the rooms, making the
wedding festivities still more brilliant.
	Our attention was not called to the fact
but we noticed in one of the rooms through
which we passed, a large number of what
appeared to be wedding presents; and no
doubt they were, for the bride is a prime
favorite among her acquaintances.
	We add our congratulations to those of
the many relatives and friends, wishing
Mr. and Mrs. Curtis all the joy and happi-
ness mortals can attain to, and an experi-
ence that will prepare them for eternal hap-
piness hereafter.


A DELIGHTFUL EVENING. 
On Friday evening, August 23, a unique
entertainment was given in ‘‘The Barna-
cle,” Kendall Square, by a few young
people for a very worthy purpose. We
approve of our children and young folks
cultivating dramatic talent in home circles
and also in being generous to those who
have spent means and ability in promoting
public interests, and have thus suffered
pecuniary loss, or have in any way been
unfortunate.  
The program of the evening was first,
Invocation by Elder David McKenzie, fol-
lowed by musical selection on piano and
violin, by Mr. and Mrs. Chester Ames.
“The Bear Story,” Kittie Bowring.
‘‘Romance,” Edna S. Ames. “The Blind
Girl by Castle-Quill,” Blanche Thomas.
"Footsteps in the Sand,” Alice McLaugh-
lan Music Recitation,“The Time to Love,” 
Elen Wallace Next a bit of nonsense,
“When the Cats Away,” Alice Mc
Laughlin, (the cat) May Carter, Blanche
Thomas and Edna Carter, (the mice) Miss
Meek, Hattie Carter, “The Latest Arriv-
al." Kate Thomas, “Sooty,” (for sport)
Rose Thomas, Sniffles (Sooty’s Comp’ny)
Elbert J. Thomas.
After the play friends gathered in the
parlor of the Hon. and Mrs. R. K. Thom-
as and the "Cat was let out of the Bag,”
by Mrs. Thomas, who announced in a neat


little speech the object of the play and the
invitations to those assembled, which was
a ‘‘Tribute of Respect and Friendship to
Elder H. W. Naisbitt, recently returned
from a mission to England.’’
	Brother Naisbitt is w[-]ll and favorably
known as a journalist, author and poet,
and during a long life has written much
that will be valuable to the community
and particularly to the Church, if these
writings can be published in book form for
circulation it will be an acquisition to home
literature of which the people of the future
as well as those of today may be proud.
	Mrs. Thomas, Mr. H. C. Wallace and
Mrs. R. E. Little set forth these facts very
clearly in speaking to the guests, and one
and all with hearty accord were ready to
respond to the sentiments beautifully ex-
pressed by those who addressed them.
	Elder Naisbitt responded briefly but
feelingly to the compliment paid him, and
the EXPONENT certainly desires to pay a
fitting tribute to the Guest of Honor of
that memorable evening’s entertainment.


EDITORIAL NOTES. 
President Jane S. Richards accompan-
ied by Sister Ruthinda E. Moench,
attended the Relief Society conference of
Nebo Stake held at Payson, August 15,
and though the weather was unfavorable,
the meetings were fairly well attended and
a good spirit prevailed.
President Jane S. Richards, accompan-
ied by Sister Emily S. Richards, attended
the Relief Society conference at Pleasant
Grove on July 26, at which time Mrs.
Rebecca Standring was elected president
of the Relief Society of the Alpine Stake
of Zion, the former president having re-
signed her position on account of ill
health. 
Sisters Lydia D. Alder and Harriet Ann
Badger went to Deseret to attend the Re-
lief Society conference of Millard Stake on
Friday, August 23. There was a good at-
tendance, Stake president, Elizabeth F.
Yates, from Scipio, presiding. The visit-
ing sisters enjoyed the trip and the meet-
ings very much; an excellent spirit was
manifest in the conference.
President M. I. Horne and Sister Eliza-
beth J. Stevenson attended the Bear Lake
Stake Relief Society conferences and other
meetings in that locality during the month
of July and the first part of August. The
conferences were held, one in Montpelier
and one in Lake Town, and Sister Horne,
though now eighty-two years of age,
traveled in visiting the Stake, over one
hundred miles by team. She returned in
good health and spirits.
The visit of Kentucky editors with their
friends, including wives, sisters, daugh-
ters, cousins and aunts, was a very pleas-
ant affair. The genial and courteous
Southern woman is always greatly appre-
ciated in the West, and really one cannot
help acknowledging there is something
very soothing in amiability, especially to
those whose cares and responsibilities are
too much for their nerves. Everything
that the Utah press could do to add to the
enjoyment of the "thoroughbred” Ken-
tuckians was arranged for, a reception at
the Kenyon, recital at the Tabernacle, trip
to Saltair, were among the enjoyable fea-


tures of their visit here, and so far as
known these press people went away with
favorable impressions of the Mecca of the
West.


AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SARAH B. LAYTON. 
(Concluded.)

	I never forget the night before he died. I 
went into h[-]s room before I retired to wish
him good night. His very look pierced my 
heart, and before I had time to speak he 
said, "O, my girl, you will meet me on 
the other side, wont you?" I answered
"I guess so," and turned and left the room 
quietly. I never bade him good night 
again. The next day he was under the in-
fluence of drugs all day, for the pain was 
too great for him and he passed away. 
	I sometimes think that if I had my life 
to live over again, I would try to overcome 
myself even more than I did, but I do not 
know. I am very thankful, however, that 
he did come home, through the blessing of
the Lord, to lay his body down with his 
family who preceded him. 
	When we went to have our endowments 
in 1856, Brother Kimball was talking to 
those who were going through, and he 
spoke at length on confidence. He en-
treated the brethren and sisters, husbands
and wives never to allow themselves to 
lose confidence in each other. He said, 
"I will promise you if you do, it will 
never be restored in this world, and I am 
afraid the eternity cannot restore it."
	It is that lack of confidence that has
caused me all the sorrow that I have passed
through. It is too late for me to try to 
right the wrong, but I do pray that sad ex-
perience may do some good to my poster-
ity o[-] any who chance to read these few
lines, for they are true. I trust that I 
have passed through enough sorrow to 
atone for all my stubbornness. I know 
that my Heavenly Father is merciful to 
His children and I am willing to abide the 
consequences, for He has always been 
mindful of me and kept me from many 
snares that I might otherwise have fallen 
into. He has never left me without a 
testimony of the truthfulness of the Gos-
pel, and also a knowledge that the princi-
ple of plural marriage is true, and that it is 
exalting in its nature to all those who will
obey it and walk in the way the Lord has 
marked out. With all I have passed
through I have never regretted that I re-
ceived it in my young days. I know that 
if we are true and faithful that principle 
will lead us on to exaltation and give us 
eternal lives in the kingdom of God. It is 
worth all the sacrifice any of us can make
in this life. I have often proved the truth
of those beautiful lines composed by John
Wesley:
"When through fiery trials thy pathway shall 
	lie,
My grace all sufficient shall be thy supply, 
The flames shall not hurt thee, I only design.
Thy dross to consume and thy gold to refine. 

Even down to old age all my people shall prove, 
My sovereign, eternal, unchangable love;
And then when gray hairs shall their temples
	adorn,
Like lambs they shall still in my bosom be borne.

The soul that on Jesus has leaned for repose, 
He will not, He cannot desert to his foes,
That soul, though all hell shall endeavor to shake, 
He'll never, no never, no never forsake." 

	I have learned in my experience to trust
in the Lord, and have always found Him


to be my friend. David says they that
trust in the Lord shall never be confounded.
I have been a member of this Church for
fifty-seven years, and have seen the rise
and fall of many promising men and
women. And when trouble came upon
leaders of the Church and persecution
spread among the Saints and many whom
we might think were strong in the faith
would begin to discover that something
was wrong with the leaders of the Church,
and they, like one of old, would put out the
hand to steady the ark and would think
that they knew more about matters than
the men who were inspired of the Lord to
lead the people. They would find fault
and sit in judgment over the faults of some
of their best friends, until they would lose
the spirit of the Lord and go into darkness,
and many to their death with no light, no
hope of eternal life, because they loved a
lie better than they did the truth. There
is no real happiness in this life only by
doing our duty and living according to the
revealed word of the Lord We need not
be deceived by any false teaching if we do
our duty, attend to our prayers and shun
evil. God and Satan will never be friends.
If we want our Heavenly Father to bless
us we must keep His commandments. Oh,
how pleased He would be if we lived so as to
say with him of old. “I know that my
Redeemer liveth.” But that is our privil-
ege, the privilege of every one who enters
the waters of baptism; for when they do
that they take upon themselves a great re-
sponsibility. There is a great deal im-
plied in saying we are members of the
Church and kingdom of God. We should
live so that we would be worthy of the
title of Saint, and not have it said of us,
that we are Saints only in name.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM. 
						3		
SISTER C. C. VAN ORDEN.

	Died, in Lewiston, Utah, at the home of her
daughter, Sister C. C. Van Orden, aged 74 years
and 7 months, after a severe and lingering illness
caused by cancer. She was born in Birmingham,
England, in 1826. Embraced the Gospel in the
land of her birth in 1853, and emigrated to Utah
in 1854, sailing on the ship, Windemere.
	She was called to the office of secretary during
the first year of the organization of the Richmond
branch of the Relief Society, in the year 1864,
acting from that time until 1889, and during nine
years of that time as one of the counselors, since
that time as ward teacher for the same until, with-
in four years of her demise.
	She was beloved by her associates for her integ-
rity, her love of right and her staunch faith in the
Gospel of Christ. She was a friend to the poor
and a wise counselor in her home; and we recog-
nize in the death of our beloved sister the loss of a
faithful and energetic worker, a devoted and
faithful mother to her family, having a determin-
ation to educate them in adverse circumstances.
And we highly esteem her faithful and untiring
labors and devotion to the interests of Zion,
worthy of imitation by her children and friends.
	Resolved, that we sympathize with the bereaved
children in the loss of a loving mother, and with
her associates in the loss of a sister in Christ.
	Resolved, that these resolutions be recorded
on the Relief Society book, and that they be pub-
lished in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
						HANNAH T. BROWER.


[column 1]
			R. S. REPORT.
		ST. JOHN’S STAKE.

	Conference of the Relief Society of the
St. Johns Stake of Zion was held in the
Academy Building at St. Johns, Arizona,
March 8, 1901, President E. S. L. Udall
presiding.
	After the usual opening exercises and

[column 2]
the work of calling the officers’ roll, read-
ing minutes and Stake reports and presenta-
tion of officers was attended to, the follow-
ing brethren and sisters occupied the time:
	Sister Margaret Jarvis reported the soci-
ety of the St. John’s ward as in fairly good
condition.
	Sister Margaret E Patterson spoke on
the subject of “teaching our children to do
right.’’
	Sister Lucinda Richey compared our con-
dition here with that of the early days in
Utah, showing how much more favorable
our financial condition is.
	Sister Anna L. Anderson gave a nice
selection on the organ.
	Sister Rachel Berry drew a comparison
in regard to the exertions we make in intel-
lectual and financial pursuits, stating that
“if we were to make as great efforts to gain
information as we do to obtain the good
things of this earth, we would make much
greater progress than we now do.’’
	The song entitled “Not a Sparrow
Falleth," was sung by Sisters Anna Mal-
lory and Sarah Nicoll.
	President E. S. L. Udall read a letter
from the General Board in regard to the
proposed erection of a joint building
for association purposes. She said: “We
have sent a copy of the letter to each soci-
ety in the Stake, with an accompanying
letter from the Stake Board asking them
to comply with the request. If we attend
to our duties properly we have more com-
fort and cheer than when we are neglegent,
and the Lord blesses us more abundantly.
The nature of our temporal labors has a
tendency to draw our minds from spiritual
things. If we do not set good examples in
these matters, we cannot expect our chil-
dren to take an interest in them. We
should follow this motto, “Be yourselves
what you would have your children be-
come.’’
	Sister Mary E. B. Farr, by request, read
a poem from the EXPONENT, entitled,
“Words that Bless,” then spoke of the in-
spiration in good poetry, that touches the
finest chord in our hearts. Also said she
had noticed a spirit in many to make more
rapid progress and live better lives, since
the dawn of the new century.
	Elder E. N. Freeman spoke of the tend-
ency that temporal labors have in drawing
our minds from the spiritual things of life.
Every thought that is evil tends to a down-
ward course, and from the abundance of the
heart the mouth speaketh. There is a
great work for us fathers and mothers to
do.
	Elder John I. Lesueur said: “I believe
the Relief Society is one of the best organ-
izations we have in the Church. When
there is sickness or distress of any kind,
they are always on hand to assist. I feel
to support this organization, not only by
my faith, and prayers, but with means
when necessary.
	President David K. Udall spoke of the
care that should be exercised in setting
proper examples before our children; that
we educate them to be pure in thought and
action. Said to the mothers, “Keep your
boys off the streets and at home as much as
possible. Do not let them go out with
crowds of men and boys when not neces-
sary.
	The choir sang, “The God that others
worship is not the God for me.” Benedic-
tion by Patriarch H. J. Platt.

[column 3]
		PANGUITCH STAKE.

	The Panguitch Stake Relief Society con-
ference was held in Escalante Tabernacle,
June 14, 1901, President Elizabeth DeLong,
presiding.
	There were present of the presiding
priesthood of the Stake, the Stake presi-
dent of the Relief Society and one of her
counselors, also many brethren and sisters
from the different wards.
	Conference opened by singing. Prayer
by President David Cameron. Singing.
Minutes of previous meeting read. Roll
called, four wards out of ten being well 
represented.
	President Elizabeth DeLong spoke at
great length about the Word of Wisdom,
caring for children, the erection of the
Woman’s Building in Salt Lake City and
the duty of teachers.
	Sister Nancy Riddle reported Escalante
ward.
	President Elizabeth DeLong reported
Panguitch; Sister Chaffin, Circleville ward;
Counselor Adelia Crosby spoke on the
privileges of the Relief Society and also the
Peace Congress and read a piece from the
EXPONENT. President Cameron said it
was necessary for the mothers to have full
knowledge of the Gospel so they could
teach their children the principles of the
Gospel.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m. Sing-
ing. Benediction by Counselor James
Houston.
	Conference reconvened at 2 p. m. Sing-
ing. Prayer by Counselor M. M. Steele.
Singing. President Elizabeth DeLong
stated that Sister Adelia Crosby, on account
of her many duties, wished to resign her
position as Stake secretary. her resigna-
tion was accepted.
	Margaret Haycock was chosen in her 
place and was elected by unanimous vote.
	A circular letter from the General Board
was then read by Counselor Adelia Crosby.
	Counselor M. M. Steele spoke of the
freedom and liberty of the women of our
society compared with the women of the
world. Singing by the choir. Meeting
continued by presenting for vote the
General and Stake officers, all of whom
were sustained.
	Counselor Adelia Crosby spoke urging
the mothers to pray for their children that 
they may not be led astray.
	Brother Twitchel was pleased to meet
with the sisters. Spoke a short time on
prayer. Choir sang.
	Sister Shirts felt like doing all she could
to help the society.
	Sister Twitchel was pleased to have the
privilege of meeting with the people, bore
a truthful testimony. 
	President DeLong thanked the choir,
also gave a little good advice to mothers.
	Sister Riddle thanked the sisters for their
visit.
	Minutes read and approved. Singing.
Benediction by Louis Duel.
			MARGARET HAYCOCK, Sec.

			WAYNE STAKE.

	Relief Society conference was held at
Lyman, June 11, 1901, President Jane S.
Coleman presiding. Singing. Prayer by
Patriarch E. H. Blackburn. Singing,
“Come, let us anew." Minutes of the pre-
vious conference read and accepted.
	President Coleman prayed that we might
be fed with the bread of life. She felt that


[Column 1]
union and good feeling existed throughout
the Stake, as far as she knew. We should
always keep in view the teachings of the
Prophet Joseph Smith to the sisters at the
organization of the Relief Society. Read
the Greeting from the General Board, and
instructed the secretaries in regard to their
records.
	Counselor Sarah S. Forsythe was pleased
to meet with the sisters at conference, felt
weak in her position, had to depend con-
stantly upon the Lord. We should live
near to our Heavenly Father and teach our
children the gift of faith. The Lord will
assist us to do our duties. We can be use-
ful in many ways if we make good use of
our time. We should speak well of each
other, such as we give we shall receive.
	Sister Nancy Blackburn was pleased for
the opportunity of meeting at Relief Society
conference. We should enjoy the spirit of
the Gospel, and not murmur. Was
pleased with the Greeting from our leading
sisters, they were noble women. She
could see the growth of the Relief Society,
had lived in the days of the Prophet. We
have everything to encourage us. If we
continue faithful we will gain our reward.
	Freemont Relief Society was reported by
the president, Louisa J. Taylor, who said
the society was prospering.
	Lyman society was reported by President
Helen A. Maxfield in good running order.
Sister Lucinda Brown was pleased to speak,
felt we are truly a blessed people, could see
so many prophesies being fulfilled. The
time is close at hand when the Savior will
make his appearance, let us be diligent in
the discharge of our duties.
	Thurber Relief Society was reported by
President Sarah G. Meeks, who said they
were doing well and improving in good
works.
	Sister Sarah A. Robison was pleased to
meet with the sisters and brethren. She
had attended the Mutual Improvement con-
ference, and enjoyed a very instructive
time. Spoke upon prayer, said we should
appreciate the labors of the aged brethren
and sisters. We should prepare ourselves
to become better wives and mothers.
	Sister Leah Blackburn spoke upon rais-
ing families and being good mothers, do-
ing our duty in this calling and the bless-
ing of the Lord would be upon us. “Let us
try to realize our true calling and may the
Lord bless us and prosper Zion.”
	The choir sang “The Spirit of God like
a fire is burning.” Benediction by Elder
E. H. Maxfield.
	Afternoon session. After opening ex-
ercises, Counselor Sarah S. Forsythe read
the second Greeting from the General
Board, then talked on the subject of the
Woman’s Building, on the necessity of tak-
ing an active part to help build it. Spoke
on marriage and raising families.
	Teasdale Relief Society was reported by
counselor L. C. Ostberg in good condition.
	Loa Relief Society was represented by
Counselor Sarah Rust as doing well.
	Sister Juliette Blackburn said we should
be thankful for the privileges we enjoy.

[Column 2]
Our parents have suffered much to estab-
lish us in the valleys of the mountains.
We should be what we seem to be, that
our influence may be for good.
	Patriarch Blackburn spoke upon chastity,
living pure lives. Said we do not all
understand alike. This life is all the
mortality we will have. If we are truly con-
verted we will live the laws of God. Felt
there was much seeming neglect. Jesus
said work while it is time, today. There
is no excellence without labor. Spoke up-
on the subject of marriage and encouraged
mothers to do their duty by their children.
Said the law of chastity should be better
kept in Zion. Bade the Relief Society God
speed, it is one of the helps of Zion.
“Sisters, do your duty, for you will be
brought to judgment. Your influence is
great, and where much is given much is
required. Arise in the name of the Lord
and teach chastity.”
	Sister Sarah A. Morrell bore her testi-
mony and exhorted all to have willing
hearts to respond to the requirements of the
Gospel.
	Sister Sarah A. Robison spoke upon
rearing children. Many young women did
not wish the trouble of families. Said we
should teach our daughters that it is
a woman’s mission in the marriage relation
to become a mother, and to keep in view the
great command of the Creator to multiply
and replenish the earth.
	President Coleman spoke on sericulture.
They are still making advance in this re-
spect, planting mulberry trees and raising
cocoons this season. Was very pleased
with the instructions received, and trust
we will go to our homes and practice what
we have been taught. Felt grateful to our
Heavenly Father for the flow of the Holy
Spirit that has been present with us at our
conference. Let us live so that it may be
our constant companion to lead us in the
path of life.
	Singing. Benediction by Elder B. Turner.
ANNA O. COLEMAN, Sec.

	I will say that in Wayne Stake Sister
Mary A. White, of Giles, raised 16,300
cocoons, weight 52 lbs. N. J. Neilson, of
Giles, has planted an acre of mulberry
trees. We have also three acres planted at
Torrey and three fourths of an acre at
Caineville. It has taken effort to accom-
plish what we have done in this direction.
The Lord has blessed our labors, and we
expect to be successful in raising silk in the
future.
JANE S. COLEMAN, Pres.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as much as possible for you money. TRY US.

[column 2]
Obstetrics and Nursing.
Dr. Margaret C. Roberts will commence
her next class in Obstetrics and
Nursing on Monday, Oct. 14.
For further information communicate with
Dr. Roberts, 75 North State Street.
Telephone 748 D.


Save Your Money!
And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank n Utah.

	Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts.

	The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW

	We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said
interest four times a year.

WRITE for any information desired.
		LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

The Most Convenient Local Train Service
in the State is given by the . . . . .
Oregon Short Line
Railroad

FIVE Fast Daily Trains Each Way between
Salt Lake City and Ogden. . . , . .


Se that your tickets read via the
“SHORT LINE”
And Get the bes


CITY TICKET OFFICE for tickets to all points, 100 West
Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.
S. W. Eccles,		D. E.Burley,
Gen Tfc. Mgr.		G. P. & T. A


Mrs. Martha Boies, mother of United
States Commissioner John Simons, and the
first woman juror and one of the first women
voters in Wyoming, was married to John
Atkinson, of Laramie, Wyo., July 23. The
bride is sixty years old and the bridegroom
sixty-five. Mrs. Boies was among the first
to grasp President McKinley’s hand when
he passed through Laramie two months
ago.


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation

Vol. 30.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 1901.	No. 5


CONTENTS.
A Story of Unrequited Love . . . . . L. D. Alder	33
R. S. Reports. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	36
Obituary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . E. H. Goddard	39
Alpine Stake . . . . . . . . . . .Emma Featherstone	39

EDITORIAL—Impressive Funeral Services. . .	36
	Conference Notices. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	37
	Editorial Notes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	37
	A Day of Prayer and Mourning. . . . . . . . .	37
	Memorial Services. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	37
	A Terrible Tragedy. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	38
	Tabernacle Memorial Services. . . . . . . . . .	39

POETRY—Sunshine from Above. . . . . . . . . N.	33
	Our Beloved Mother. . . . . . . Ruth M. Fox	35


For the EXPONENT.
SUNSHINE FROM ABOVE.

The sunshine streams upon my soul,
	Which opens to its welcome ray;
It thrills me through, it lights the whole
	As doth the sun the summer's day.

My soul exults, responsive sings,
	As if to burst the bands I feel;
My morning psalm with music rings,
	My even song doth richer peal!

'Tis praise and prayer in one combined,
	(For Father lives—He hears my cry)
And these are every day enshrined,
	Around my Altar built quite nigh!

Jerusalem is far away,
	Its glories faded, overthrown,
In later temples I would stay,
	I cannot do this no! ah no!

But in my quiet home I built
	A rare shekinah to His name;
Beneath it buried all my guilt—
	Consumed by Love's celestial flame!

My heart is His, though weak am I,
	His strength is mine in life's rough way,
And I shall triumph by and by,
	To share with Him unclouded day!

N.


[Column 1]
A STORY OF UNREQUITED LOVE.
	It was in the early summer, long, long
ago, when life was in its springtime; each
day glorious and sunny, slowly went out
in a sea of gold at the western gate.
	Then it was that this story of unrequited
love saddened the hearts of the actors,
darkened nature’s fair prospect, and brought
into it a quiver of pain, that the long years
have failed to obliterate.
	This lover was fair to look upon. Rather
above the medium height, with brown hair
and blue eyes, out of which a pleading
look often met your own. Features clear-
cut, with aquline nose, a broad forehead
softened by the slight wave of the hair.
The expression of the mouth was some-
what sad, his manner quiet and very re-
tiring. He would be noticed anywhere,
and one would glance at him the second
time.
	There was a cause for this sadness and
lack of companionship, that made him
different to others of his age.
	He spoke of his life; of the dear old
father and mother he had left on Erin’s
Green Isle; of his childhood and his ram-
bles in the fields when primroses were in
bloom. He was not of that land, but of

[Column 2]
Scotch descent, his forefathers having fled
to Ireland for peace during the turbulent
times that were such a bane to Scotland.
	He was the youngest of the family, had
been the household pet. But when the
older brother, who had come over to
America, had gathered some wealth, he
sent the means to the home he still loved
fondly, asking his younger brother to
come to him. He offered to give him a
start in the world and desired his loving
companionship. Though tender chords
were to be severed and eyes bedimmed with
tears, he decided to leave the home of his
childhood, and those who loved him more
than life, and go to his brother.
	With a heart sad, yet hopeful, he set sail
for the fair land of America. It was
not in those days as now. Crossing the
mighty deep consumed weeks, and months
were consumed in the journey that is now
counted by a few days.
	But all went well, and in safety he
reached the land where years before his
brother had found a home. From the
Atlantic coast he must travel by rail many
miles before he reached his brother. At
last he arrived. Going to the address sent
him, heart beating with love and hungry
for the warm embrace he knew awaited
him, he knocked at the door.
	A strange face greeted him, and on ask-
ing for his brother he was told that two
weeks before he was laid in his grave.
Stunned, he stood gazing at the one who
imparted this terrible intelligence.
	He was invited to enter; was shown into
his brother’s room and bade welcome. As
in a dream, from which he thought he
must surely awaken and find it but the
fancy of a troubled brain, he listened to the
recital of the death of that dear brother.
	How he had longed to see him, and de-
sired with the deepest desire to live until
he should come.
	But the angel Azriel had called, and in
obedience to the summons, his spirit had
fled from its prison house. Everything
that he had accumulated through years of
toil and privation, storing up with a loving
hand to keep those across the sea, he had
given to this, his youngest brother. All
this he could not realize, but his heart
cried for love; the love of which he had
dreamed, and the happy meeting that the
waves of the sea had whispered about in
their soft ripples, when the moonlight on its
bosom made it look transparent even as
glass. He could hear his brother’s voice in
the winds that played at evening, kissing
his cheek and fanning his brow.
	Was this the end? A stranger in a
strange land, a sense of loneliness utterly
indescribable filled his heart.
	But life must be lived, and to a noble
nature it must be lived well. So gradually
he picked up the threads that had been
severed and began to take interest in the
business that his brother had bequeathed
him.
	Over the sea he had sent the sad story,
that would bring sorrow to the dear ones
in the old home there, weakening the frail
moorings still more that held them in life.

[Column 3]
	The heart of youth is elastic, and early
sorrows grow dimmer and dimmer as time
passes on.
	The springtime brought buds of promise,
that partly healed the wounded heart.
Love, the Queen of all the earth, entered
and enthroned herself, rearing an altar
where roses bloomed in luxuriance and the
flowers of Paradise abounded.
	This tender love dream filled the whole
world with divine radiance. That he
would not be loved in return never entered
his mind. He was sure that love like his
must bring a like heavenly sympathy.
	So he told her of the home over the sea;
the fond mother waiting there to welcome
his bride and bestow the kiss of love on the
one he had so vividly painted as the very
perfection of modest and pure maidenhood.
He daily built castles in the air, so entranc-
ingly beautiful, but without foundation; so
airy and fairy, but without occupant.
	“How glad she will be to see my darl-
ing,” he often said when whiling away the
time in fond anticipations of the happy re-
turn over the wide, blue sea, with love as
the beacon light.
	He had asked her father if he might pay
his addresses, and received permission, but
her he had never asked. So the days went
by, dreams of love for him, uneasiness and
sadness for her, until the long decided time
came and the word had to be spoken that
fell like a blow, quenching forever the love
light in those thoughtful eyes.
	Oh, why was he so blind? Why could
he not understand that her manner was
only friendly, not even free from restraint?
How could he love on and the fire of love
be fed when naught but dust and ashes
were heaped on the hearth?
	It was when the summer days were
drawing to a close and autumn, with her
faint coloring of crimson and gold, made
the woods so inviting.
	“Cannot love me?” faltered the ashy
lips, “not be my wife? Then there is
another,” he said.
	“Yes, there is another. You have often
heard his name mentioned. He will come
tonight.”
	Anger flashed from his eyes; bitter words
and threats that should have remained for-
ever unuttered, were foilowed by a cold
good evening, and he was gone.
	All was over. In one heart love was
dead, in the other hope was living and
whispering of a day when love would have
a rosy awakening. Yet regret and anguish
for the pain caused to one esteemed as a
dear friend, brought sorrow.
	Years passed on, but the actors in that
scene had never met.
	Often she had thought of him, remem-
bered many little acts of loving kindness,
and wondered if he were happy. A
woman always thinks gently of one who
has been a lover, and though the years be
long that intervene, there is a thrill of inter-
est in him, mingled with pity and pain.
	She had been a bride, then a mother, be-
fore fate brought their two lives in touch
again. It was at a grand ball given by the
English residents of the city where they


[column 1]
lived. Carriage after carriage drove up,
bringing fair maidens daintily dressed,
and matrons richly attired, blazing with
jewels, to the festive scene. Stepping
lightly over the carpet, they enter the
spacious hall accompanied by beau or 
spouse.
	All is excitement; scarcely a thought,yet,
as to who was there, in that vast assemblage
Strains of music are wafted from unseen
players, and the dancers glide over the 
polished floor.
	Who is that fine looking stranger advanc-
cing? Is it he? No, it cannot be. A
mist arises before her eyes; her heart stands 
still.
	"We met, 'twas in a crowd,
	And I thought he would shun me,
	He came, I could not breathe,
	For his eye was upon me.
	He spoke, his words were cold,
	But his tone was unaltered,
	I knew how much he felt,
	For his deep-toned voice faltered.
	He called me by my name,
	As the bride of another."

She looked up trembling. He asked for
a dance.
	"My husband," she faltered.
	"I have your husband's permission," he
said.
	Deferentially prottering his arm, she
leaned upon him as in former days.
	Through the crowd they wended their 
way.
	"Let us promenade," he said, entering
the hall. "I want to talk to you." Look-
ing down upon her, "You have made just
the woman I thought you would," he 
said. "I am not disappointed in you; and
how old is the little one?"
	"A little over a year."
	He spoke kindly now, and fear left the
heart of his companion. He talked on of
things around them, then of the past.
	"I am sorry," he said, "for the unkind
words I spoke, you were not to blame; but
should he ever be unkind to you," clinch-
ing his hand. "Well," he continued, "I 
want you to promise me, should you ever
need a friend and I am anywhere in the
world, you will let me be that friend.
Promise me, will you call on me? I shall
never marry. I loved once, and it was for-
ever, for me there is none henceforth. Will 
you promise?"
	"Yes," was the faint response. "But,
O, you will love again some day; a fair
young girl will love you for your good-
ness."
	"No," he said, "I shall never marry.
Never will I see one like you, never one
that I can love. Thank you for the
promise. You will never be without a
friend while I live. I would come to you
over land or sea. Let us go in to dance."
	To the strains of a dreamy waltz they
gracefully kept time. Among the light
and gay they seemed as others. Stately
among the young and giddy, they moved
among the dancers, his arm clasped lightly
around her. It was the last time, yet no
one but themselves knew that this was a
meeting and a parting. The music almost
sobbed as it died away, and for a moment a
stillness fell around.
	Bending low over her hand, "Good bye,"
he said, and was gone.
	Sadness unutterable filled her heart as
she watched him until he was lost among
the throng. Thankful she was to God for
his kind words and thoughts, for his gentle
demeanor: In her eyes tears welled up for

[Column 2]
his wrecked life, and a prayer that a loving
wife might some day reign in his heart and
home, making the world bright and happy
for him.
	Years brought changes in her life. Far 
away from youthful scenes her lot had
been cast. Many children had come to her
home, but she had never wanted that
friend. No tidings of him had ever come
from the home far away. They were as
widely separated as tho' the sea rolled be-
tween them.
	Sorrows came to her, as they do to most
of us. Then came dark days, and the
promise so solemnly given clamored for ful-
fillment. But where was he? Still in the
land of the living? His fate was uncertain;
but wherever he might be, she is thankful
that they parted friends; friends they could
be forever.
	At last, when her hair was silvered with
the dust of time and grandchildren played
around her knee, a schoolmate of that long
ago came to see her, bringing news that he
was dead, only a year before.
	"Did he ever marry?" she asks.
	"No, but his sister came to him and
kept house for him. He left her all his
wealth."
	He had kept his word. The light and 
music of the ballroom rushes before her.
The odor of flowers and waving of fans and
the words, "I shall never marry, I loved
once and it was forever," ring out as
though they were just spoken.
	"You know the reason why," the friend
continued. The years roll back like a
scroll, as a panorama the scenes are por-
trayed. Again he clasps her hand as he
says, "Good bye, remember," when he 
passed out of her life forever.

	The loss, the cross, the pain, the tear,
		Gone with the Springtime's breath;
	Naught but peace can enter here,
		The vale of silent Death.
	'Tis not in vain we suffer so,
		The stream is purified;
	The torrents smoothly glide below,
		That lash the moutain side.
	
	And strength is born in throes of pain,
		Eyes clearly see that weep;
	The heart bowed down will rise again,
		We plant before we reap.
	
	So God's decrees, one endless round,
		We'll find are wise and best;
	No stitches dropped, not thread unwound,
		The woof withstands the test. 
					LYDIA D. ALDER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
SALT LAKE STAKE.

	The quarterly conference of the Salt
Lake Stake Relief Society met in the As-
sembly Hall, September 7th, at 10 a. m.,
President M. I. Horne presiding. Singing,
“Let us pray, gladly pray.” Prayer by J.
S. Woolley. Song, “Redeemer of Israel.”
	Present on the stand were Sisters M. I.
Horne, Annie T. Hyde, Clara C. Cannon,
B. W. Smith, S. J. Cannon, Maria Wilcox
and Julia C. Howe.
	Out of the 30 branches of the Relief
Society, 28 were represented. The statis-
tical and financial reports were read. The
society reports and remarks concerning
business matters were made by Counselor
Annie T. Hyde and Sister Clarissa S. Wil-
liams, treasurer for the Woman’s Building.
	President Horne addressed the society.
Said there should be a representative from
the presidency of each branch of the society

[Column 2]
at all our conferences; that we should be
faithful and alive in attending to our duties,
and not allow worldly pleasure to induce us
to neglect weightier matters. Told the
sisters to store wheat, and not keep the
money to buy it on hand.
	Sister B. W. Smith spoke on the law of
tithing and on honesty.
	The congregation sang “How firm a
foundation.”
	Sister S. J. Cannon spoke of the noble
qualities of Sister Zina D. H. Young. Felt
we should treasure up her counsel and ad-
vice. Enlarged on the blessings of the Re-
lief Society; in the world they were appre-
ciated by the missionaries.
	Sister Maria W. Wilcox spoke upon the
necessity of working for our dead.
	Sister Martha Morris sang a hymn.
	Sister C. S. Williams spoke a few mo-
ments on the cultivation of love and kind-
ness in our homes and elsewhere.
	Meeting adjourned till 2 o’clock. Sing 
ing. “We thank Thee, O God, for a proph-
et.” Benediction by Julia C. Howe.
	Afternoon session of the R. S. conference
opened by the Temple choir singing
“Glorious things are sung of Zion.” Pray-
er by Clara C. Cannon. The Temple choir
quartette sang “Zion stands with hills sur-
rounded. Minutes of last conference read
and approved. The address delivered to
the General Society by President Snow, at
Saltair, was read by Counselor Annie T.
Hyde.
	Sister Julia C. Howe felt she was ad-
dressing her friends, the members of the
Relief Society. She felt we were encour-
aged by our brethren. Thought that our
works would be more appreciated in the
future. Spoke of blessings accrueing from
tithe paying. Felt the Woman’s Building
will be a credit to us, and our children will
appreciate our efforts in this regard. Knew
that women active in the Relief Society
made better wives and mothers. Felt we
should sustain each other by our prayers.
	Sister Hyde felt President Snow’s ad-
vice is priceless to us, it gives us much en-
couragement. Felt there were many young
women who would come to the meetings if
they were invited. Felt we should grow in
our organization. Spoke of the death of
Sister Zina D. H. Young, and her teach-
ings of love and charity to the sisters;
also of the attempted assassination of
President McKinley, and how secret organ-
izations were growing among our people,
felt it would take all the strength that we
can get to fight against the power of the
adversary. Exhorted all to purify them-
selves and do as they would wish to be
done by.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon felt that
much that was beneficial had been dwelt
upon. She would try and exert herself to
attend more faithfully to her duties. If we
did we would be stronger mentally and
physically. Said school ourselves, speak
no evil, do good to all. As sisters of the
society we should visit the new comers,
those who have joined the Church. Was
thankful we know we have the true Gos-
pel.
	Sister Hull sang a solo, accompanied by
the Temple choir.
	Sister R. R. Grant said it should be a
pleasure to bear a testimony of the Gospel
emanating from God. Spoke of her son,
Apostle Grant, and his experience in Japan.
We are not dependent upon any one for a
knowledge of the Gospel, if we keep His


[column 1]
commandments. Referred to the privileges
of the young people, thought it seemed as
if peace were being taken from the earth.
The trials of the Saints prepare them to
bear greater ones. Felt that no people
were so blessed as we are, we have every-
thing to encourage us to faithfulness and
diligence.
	President B. W. Smith felt the loss of
Sister Zina, thought we should appreciate
President Horne and listen to her counsel.
"It will only be a few days till we pass on,
so be happy, do not worry about our food
or clothing.” Alluded to the pleasure of
Temple work. Said she had worked in the
Temple in Nauvoo, had received her en-
dowments there when the Prophet Joseph
was living.
	President S. J. Cannon said, “We must
each do our work; we should meet together
and get instruction to do the work in our
own wards and our homes. There are
30,000 women in our society and much
good can be accomplished by them. Felt
it was very necessary to instruct our boys
for missionary labors.
	The choir and quartette sang “Softly
beams the sacred dawing.” 
	Julia S. Woolley spoke a few moments
on an increase of faith.
	President Horne instructed the presidents
to look after their poor, as winter
was now approaching. Be wise and not
make paupers of our poor. Urged the sis-
ters to interest themselves in Temple work
said she had also worked in the Nau-
voo Temple. Felt the Lord always
blesses us in our labors. Our faith should
be increased in healing the sick.
	Conference adjourned till December.
Singing, Doxology. Benediction by Elder
C. J. Thomas.
					J. S. Wolley, Sec.

		BEAR LAKE STAKE.

	The annual conference of the Relief
Society of Bear Lake Stake, convened in
the Ovid meeting house, July 27, 1901, at
10 a. m. Present on the stand were
President J. S. Lindsay, Counselor L. M.
Hart and Mary Bagley; Sisters M. I.
Horne and E. J. Stevenson, of the General
Board of the Relief Society, and a number
of the presidents of the different branches
of the Relief Society in Bear Lake, J. P.
Lindsay presiding.
	Singing, “Prayer is the soul’s sincere de-
sire.” Prayer, Elder John Bagley. Sing-
ing, “Earth with her ten thousand flowers.”
Roll called, minutes of previous conference
read and approved.
	President Lindsay expressed her gratifi-
cation for the privilege of meeting together
in so pleasant a room, but felt somewhat
disappointed at the small attendance.
	A number of the branches were reported
by the presidents.
	Sister Stevenson addressed the conference.
Spoke at some length on the magnanimity
of the Relief Society work. Much more
would have been accomplished had all
been as interested as some have been. The
Prophet Joseph said every virtuous woman
in the Church should have her name en-
rolled in the Relief Society. We may gain
much valuable experience, and we are told
we learn nothing truly but that which we
learn by experience. The mission of the
teachers of the Relief Society is a very im-
portant one. They should seek God for
His Spirit, for the spirit of discernment
that they may say that which is most

[column 2]
needed in each home. Spoke further in an
interesting way on many important sub-
jects.
	Singing, “Our God, we raise to Thee.”
Benediction by Elder E. M. Allred.
	Afternoon session, President Lindsay
presiding. Hymn, “High on the moun-
tain top appearing.” Prayer by Bishop
Philemon Lindsay. Hymn, “Redeemer of
Israel.”
	A number more verbal reports were
given.
	President Lindsay expressed the pleasure
she felt in having with us the sisters from
Salt Lake City. The instructions received
from Sister Horne in her previous visits to
our conferences had been a great benefit to
her in her labors.
	Sister M. I. Horne said she noticed a
marked improvement in Ovid since her
visit a few years since. The new meeting
house erected, although not elaborate, is
neat and comfortable. These organizations
were effected that woman may prepare her-
self as well as man for the other life. That
we may learn the plan of salvation, as well
as to look after the poor and sick.
	We are more greatly blessed than all
other dispensations. We have no history
of the Father and Son appearing to any
other prophet. The great work that the
Prophet Joseph was to perform was told
hlm by the Savior. We have the benefit
of direct revelation recorded in the Doctrine
and Covenants. These instructions were
given for our guidance. We are comfort-
ably settled in our peaceful homes and
should not forget our obligations. Some
are becoming careless about storing grain.
Our records as well as those of the breth-
ren should be properly kept. Urged the
sisters to make an effort to assist in erecting
the Woman’s Building in Salt Lake City.
Hoped the sisters would patronize the EX-
PONENT. It is very essential for our girls
to be educated, for fhey are to bear the
souls of men. Asked the blessings of God
upon all.
	Sister Stevenson admonished the sisters
to be good housekeepers, a house of order
is a fit place for the Spirit of God. It is a
part of our religion to learn to keep a home
in order. Poverty is no disgrace, although
very inconvenient, but we can, even in the
midst of this have orderly homes, have our
meals at regular hours, retire early and
rise early that we may be blessed with wis-
dow. Spoke very interestingly of an inter-
view she had with one of the Book of Mor-
mon witnesses.
	President Lindsay had rejoiced greatly in
listening to the words of counsel given.
Hoped that all would awaken to a sense of
their duty, and that the young sisters would
attend the Relief Society meetings. The
time is short for us to labor, it rests with us
whether we are true to our religion.
	Hymn. “Praise to the man who com-
muned with Jehovah.” Benediction, Elder
E. M. Allred.
	The Relief Society conference again con-
vened on Sunday at 2 p. m. After the
usual opening exercises an address by
President Lorenzo Snow, given at Saltair,
July 9, to the ladies, officers and members
of the Relief Society, was read by Counsel-
or L. M. Hart.
	President M. I. Horne said it is very
gratifying to see the good attendance. De-
sired to say that which would be most bene-
ficial to all. The Lord knew the desire
His daughters had to serve him and has

[column 3]
granted us the privilege of being organized.
Those who are faithful members of the
society are in advance of those who are not 
thus identified. We are in the chambers of 
the mountains, God has brought us. There
are beautiful cities, fields and gardens,
where a short time since it was a wild
desert place; and yet some of us have not
time to attend to our duties, but are using 
too much time in seeking the wealth of the
world. Spoke on the necessity of prayer, 
keeping the Sabbath day holy and obeying 
the law of tithing.
	Sister Stevenson felt it no small task to
address a congregation of Latter-day Saints. 
Women should be educated Husbands
encourage your wives to attend our confer- 
ences, even if you have a cold lunch on that 
day. How can your wives be companion-
able for you, if they have no opportunities
for obtaining knowledge, and where is a
better place than at our Relief Society 
meetings. Spoke on woman’s noble mis-
sion and the great good she can accomplish 
if guided by the Holy Spirit. 
	Counselor Mary Bagley knew the only
way to future greatness is to be obedient to 
the counsels given by those who are direc-
ted by the Spirit of God. Esteemed it a
great privilege to be a member of the Relief
Society, Testified that the instructions
given to us during our conference had been
words of inspiration.
	Sister M. I Horne spoke a short time on 
the rights and privileges of the sisters as 
given us by the Prophet Joseph when 
we were first organized, and said the rights
have not always been properly understood
by the brethren.
	President Wm. Budge made a few clos- 
ing remarks, and it was then moved and 
seconded that Sister Louisa Fuller be sus-
tained as corresponding secretary of the  
Relief Society of Bear Lake Stake.
	The choir sang an anthem. Benediction
by Bishop Clark.
				N. H. ALLRED, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OUR BELOVED MOTHER.
ZINA D. H. YOUNG.

Sleep, belov’d mother, sleep,
Rest thee a little while;
Then mount to the eternal skies,
And ope thine eyes in glad surprise;
And read on banners waving high,
“Behold the just shall never die,”

Thy life was beautiful,
Replete with noble deeds,
Right royal shall thy welcome be,
Lo, all the harps are strung for thee
And marshalled is the heav’nly choir,
Whose strains the very Gods inspire.

Thou wert exalted here,
Of women the elect;
But yonder there awaits for thee,
A crown for thy fidelity,
A place upon our Lord’s right hand,
A joy we cannot understand.

We miss thy cheering words,
In blessing on our heads,
Thy never-failing charity,
Thy marv’lous gift of prophecy,
And sacred tongues, thy faith sublime,
Thy perfect trust, all these were thine.

And yet, we cannot mourn,
We so rejoice in thee;
But we will strive by his good grace,
Again to see thy saintly face,
To tread the path which thou hast trod,
Yea, even to the throne of God.
					RUTH M. FOX.


Mrs. French, of Helena, Montana, is
Chief Deputy Collector of international
Revenue.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year. $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	dvertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal di-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER, 1901.


[Column 1]
IMPRESSIVE FUNERAL SERVICES.
	The funeral services of our beloved
Mother in Israel and General President of
the Relief Society, Mrs. Zina D. H. Young,
were held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall,
in this city, Sabbath morning, September
1, at 10 a. m.
	The hall was crowded to its utmost ca-
pacity, the white draping and beautiful
flowers were fitting emblems of a pure life,
abounding with love and sympathy as
sweet as the lilies and roses, tokens of
friendship and affection from those who
prized her loving and sweet companionship
in life. The Temple workers gave a de-
sign of the Temple in purple and white
asters, very striking; the General Board of
the Relief Society, a magnificent “Gates
Ajar;” the Salt Lake Board, R. S., an ele-
gant crown in white roses; Weber Stake R.
S., an unique harp of choice flowers,
artistically arranged; the Y. L. M. I. A., a
pillow; the Primary Association, a harp of
asters and roses; the children of Sister Zina,
a sheaf of wheat and a sickle of roses with
a semicircle bearing the word “MOTHER,”
the whole surmounted with a beautiful
crown; the Utah Silk Commision, of which
she was president, a wreath of purple asters
and white roses, tied with Utah silk in
white. There were many other floral gifts,
testimonies of the love and esteem in which
Aunt Zina was held.
	On the stand were the venerable Presi-
dent, Lorenzo Snow, and many of the
Church authorities, also the officers of the
General Board of the Relief Society.
	President Angus M. Cannon presided
over the services which were opened by the
Tabernacle choir singing “When first the
glorious light of truth,” a favorite hymn of
Aunt Zina’s.
	The opening prayer was offered by
Apostle Anthon H. Lund, and the services
were continued with the solo, “Awake my
Soul,” sung by Prof. H. S. Goddard.
	The first speaker was President Snow,
who prefaced his address by saying that
many would call this a solemn occasion,
but he thought that when a man or woman
goes faithfully through life and have per-
formed their mission properly, there is no
occasion to mourn. Exaltation follows
their course. President Snow said that he
first met Aunt Zina 65 years ago when she
was 15 years of age. Since that time he
had been intimately acquainted with her,
and he did not know of a woman whose
duties in life were performed more effec-
tually than hers. He said that in viewing

[Column 2]
her past life he was filled with pride and
thanksgiving. We cannot help but shed
tears, but how happy is the contemplation
that she has passed out of life and gone to
her exaltation. The relatives of the de-
ceased were admonished to follow in her
steps, to make as few mistakes as she made
and their glory would be sure. The
Apostle John was bidden to write, “Blessed
are those who die in the Lord,” for their
works will live after them. It was so with
Aunt Zina, her works will live after her.
“We ought to feel in our hearts,” said
President Snow, “that God is our Father,
and that while we make mistakes and are
weak yet if we live as nearly perfect as we
can all will be well with us. This sister
has lived in this way. When she was sud-
denly stricken with the blow that took her
consciousness away, she was prepared to
go and meet her Maker. Now, I say to
you all, brothers and sisters, do likewise.”
	The next speaker was Mrs. Jane S.
Richards, first counselor to Aunt Zina, as
president of the Relief Society. She said
she could endorse every word that Presi-
dent Snow had said of her beloved sister.
She had known Aunt Zina between fifty
and sixty years and in her there was no
variation. The kingdom of God was al-
ways first with her. Mrs. Richards bore a
strong testimony to the divinity of the
Gospel and the good that is being done by
the Relief Society. “Sister Zina,” she
continued, “has often gone to the bedside
of the sick when she herself was feeling ill,
and she has returned feeling strong for
having done her duty. Aunt Zina was an
example to all of us, and if I can go where
she and Sister Eliza R. Snow are, I will
feel repaid for having lived.”
	Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith was the next
speaker. She met Aunt Zina in 1840, at a
meeting in which the power of God was
manifest. The two friends had been like
sisters ever since. She did not think it
would be many years before she would
meet Aunt Zina again, and the others who
had gone before her. She asked those
present to continue the labor of love. To
visit the sick and afflicted and comfort
those who are cast down.
	The succeeding speaker was Mrs. Emme-
line B. Wells. She had said that she could
not speak on this occasson, for she was
naturally emotional, and she loved Aunt
Zina greatly. She rejoiced over the glori-
ous life of the departed, who was associated
now with such women as “Mother” Whit-
ney, Eliza R. Snow, Emily D. Young, Marin-
da Hyde a d others who had already passed
away. Sister Wells alluded to the gift of
tongues and interpretation that Sister Zina
had enjoyed in such perfection and the
songs of Zion so sweetly rendered by
“Mother” Whitney. “I mourn for Sister
Zina and I cannot help it. No woman was
ever greater beloved than Sister Zina. I think
of all the beautiful attributes that adorn
women on earth, she had the most heaven-
ly, humility. She had another of the
great virtues, obedience. She was obe-
dient to the authorities of the Church and
obedient to her own conscience. And she
had many other great and noble virtues.”
	Elder Seymour B. Young was the next
speaker. He began by saying that Aunt
Zina returned from Canada last Sunday in
a comatose condition. On Tuesday morn-
ing he asked her if she knew him and she
opened her eyes and said yes. That was
the only time that she seemed to recognize

[Column 3]
any one. “She was indeed a noble
woman,” said the speaker. “You all
know how tender her heart was. I think
she was made of the stuff of which martyrs
are made. She has proven often that she
would lay down her life for the mainten-
ance of truth. She was a very cleanly
woman. Clean in language, thought and
action.” Elder Young went on to tell of
the work that Aunt Zina had performed; of
the hardships and sacrifices she endured
and the devotion she showed to the sick and
the poor. She was a woman who loved
the truth, and loved her fellow man. It
did not make so much difference what
creed one possessed if he were in need he
could easily appeal to the heart of Aunt
Zina. She was not only a good and tender-
hearted mother, but she took other chil-
dren to her heart and reared them like her
own, and marked out the path for them to
walk in. She was a woman of deep humil-
ity and she always did all she could, al-
though doubting her own ability to do
much. Aunt Zina’s name and character
will live after her and will endure forever.”
	Elder John Nicholson was the next
speaker, and he began by saying that he
had listened with pleasure and interest to
all that had been said of Aunt Zina. “In
all my experience and observation,” said
he, “I never heard a more glowing and
glorious tribute paid to any one that had
passed from this sphere to the beyond, than
has been paid to Aunt Zina, and I can say
that it is all the truth. This indicates to
me how close a son or daughter can ap-
proach to the carrying out of that admoni-
tion, ‘be ye perfect, even as your Father
which is in heaven is perfect.’ I have
never heard of any failing that she pos-
sessed. If she had any, I have failed in
getting the information. Those who over-
come the most shall receive the most
glorious inheritance that can be given to
mortal man, and that is what Aunt Zina
has done and she has gone to her reward.
Elder Nicholson paid a most eloquent tri-
bute to the character of Aunt Zina, which
he said perhaps shone with greatest luster
within the circle of her own family. It
was attested in the fact that the love of her
foster children had for her was in no de-
gree less than that of her own children.”
This, thought the speaker, spoke volumes
for her impartiality, and her great sense of
justice.
	Miss Arvilla Clark sang “Gently, Lord,
Oh Gently Lead us,” a beautiful song
rendered in exquisite style.
	Apostle A. H. Lund spoke next. He
said that many glorious things had been
said of the departed, but he thought she
merited them all. Aunt Zina was more
than a friend. She has been “Aunt Zina”
to all Israel. “What a gentle, pure
woman she was,” said the speaker. “All
her life from the time she was a young
woman had been spent in the service of the
Lord. She was a woman in whom the
spiritual nature was well developed, al-
though she was very practical. She loved
her neighbor; loved to do good to others.
She was a blessing wherever she traveled.
What a noble character she had. When
the sons and daughters of God come up to
receive their reward, Aunt Zina will be one
of that happy throng on the right hand of
God, to whom it will be said, “I was sick
and in prison and ye visited me.” Aunt
Zina has laid up riches that are unfading. I
believe that every unselfish act we per-


form will be counted as a treasure for us
on the other side, and I believe that Sister
Zina has laid up many, many treasures of
this kind.”
	President Angus M. Cannon spoke
next, saying that he had known
Aunt Zina for fifty years. If ever a
woman lived inclined to do her Heavenly
Father’s will rather than her own, it was
Aunt Zina. The speaker went on to pay
tribute to the life and character of the de-
parted, and expressed the hope that her
children and children’s children shall live
worthy to go where she is.
	The next speaker was Elder C. W. Pen-
rose, who began by quoting the words of
the Bible, “Be ye also ready.” Aunt Zina
was always ready when called upon to at-
tend the duties of her office in ministering
unto sick and fallen humanity. She was
also ready when the time came, to go and
meet her Maker. The last the speaker saw
of Aunt Zina was in Ogden last Sunday,
but he expected to see her again when she
is clothed upon by the glory of God. He
had known her for forty years, and it
seemed to him that her life was a benedic-
tion. In every respect she was a saint of
God. She was indeed a noble and blessed
woman and her name will be heard among
her people always. If we are faithful and
true, concluded the speaker, we will join
her and all the noble ones who have gone
before, and receive the glorious crown that
is in waiting for all the good and the faith-
ful.
	The choir sang “O, my Father,” and
the benediction was pronounced by Bishop
W. B. Preston.
	While the casket was borne slowly out
of the building, followed by the family of
the deceased, the audience remained seated.
The long funeral cortege was formed on
South Temple, making a line of vehicles
reaching from the Bee Hive House to West
Temple Street. The interment was made
in the City cemetery, the grave being dedi-
cated by Apostle Lund. A quartette from
the Tabernacle choir sang "Nearer, My
God, to Thee,” and after the coffin was
covered, the mourners returned to the city.
	Not the least touching and beautiful
feature of the funeral was the fact that the
pallbearers were sons of the late President
Young, who had loved Aunt Zina as a
mother. They were Hyrum S., Oscar B.,
Don Carlos, Morris, Lorenzo D. and
Alonzo Young.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SEMI-ANNUAL CONFERENCE.

	The Seventy-second Semi-annual Confer-
ence of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints will commence on Fri-
day, October 4, at 10 a. m. in the Taber-
nacle in this city.
			LORENZO SNOW,		
			JOSEPH F. SMITH,
				First Presidency.


ANNUAL BUSINESS MEETING
	The regular annual business meeting of
the National Woman’s Relief Society will
be held on Monday, October 7, at two
o’clock p. m,. in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall in this city. All officers and mem-
bers of this society are invited to be pres-
ent.
E. B. WELLS,
General Secretary.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The General Conference of the Relief
Society will be held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall in this city, on Thursday,
October 3, meetings commencing at 10 a.
m. and at 2 p. m. It is desired that each
Stake organization should be represented
by its president or some one of its officers,
or a member authorized to report. A
cordial invitation is extended to all mem-
bers of the society and to the Bishops and
brethren interested in its welfare to be
present, also to the Y. L. N. M. I. A. and
Primary organizations.
JANE S. RICHARDS,
Acting President.
BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
SARAH JENNE CANNON,
Counselors.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, Secretary.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Through letters received and messages
sent we have been notified of Memorial 
Meetings, in honor of President Zina D. H.
Young, being held by many branches of
the Relief Society in the several Stakes of
Zion. Everywhere her loss is deeply felt
and her memory fondly cherished; for more
than fifty years her name has been a house-
hold word in the homes of the Latter-day
Saints. Let the children of today and of
coming generations be taught to reverence
her name as a Mother in Israel whose hero-
ic example and noble life can never be for-
gotten.
	Visits have been made by the General
Board recently to Stake conferences and
meetings. Kanab Stake, Sister Elizabeth 
J. Stevenson; South Sanpete and Granite
Stakes, Sister Lydia D. Alder; to Relief
Society conferences in Southwestern
mission, St. John, Jay and Kansas City,
Sisters Sarah Jenne Cannon and Annie T.
Hyde; St. George Stake, Sisters Mary Alice
Lambert and Margaret A. Caine; to Woodruff
Stake, Sisters Susan Grant and Lydia D. 
Alder; to Weber Stake, Sisters Emmeline
B. Wells and Emily S. Richards; to Juab
Stake, Sisters M. Isabella Horne and Julia
C. Howe, and to Cassia Stake, Sisters
Elizabeth J. Stevenson and Louisa L.
Greene Richards. Everywhere the sisters
have been warmly received and meetings
and conferences have been generally well
attended and great interest manifested in
the work of this benevolent organization.


[Column 1]
A DAY OF PRAYER AND MOURNING.
GOVERNOR WELLS’ PROCLAMATION.
	In answer to an inquiry as to the more
fitting day for the people of Utah to ob-
serve as memorial day, Governor Wells re-
ceived the following word from the late
President’s secretary, George B. Cortelyou:
	Buffalo, N. Y., September 15, 1901:—
Hon. Heber M. Wells, Governor of Utah,
Salt Lake City, Utah: Thursday, Sep-
tember 19th, is the day set for funeral ser-
vices at Canton, O.; that would be proper
day to set apart for mourning and prayer.
GEORGE B. CARTELYOU.
	Governor Wells thereupon issued the fol-
lowing proclamation:
	Whereas in His infinite wisdom it has
pleased the Almighty to permit to be re-
moved from this life the great and good

[Column 2]
head of this nation, William McKinley,
late President of the United States, who
died at the city of Buffalo, in the State of
New York, on the 14th day of September,
1901, of mortal wounds inflicted upon him
by an assassin; and
	“Whereas, it is fitting that the people of
Utah, sharing with the people of the
Union and of the world the universal grief
upon a misfortune so unexpected and so
overwhelming, should be afforded an op-
portunity to manifest their veneration and
love for the illustrious dead, their detesta-
tion of the hideous crime that has laid him
low, their sympathy for his stricken widow,
the crushing sorrow that fills their hearts
in contemplation of a national calamity so
appalling and the gratitude that the wis-
dom of the fathers, foreseeing such dread-
ful possibilities, provided that the govern-
ment should not be destroyed because of
the uncertainty of human life; and
	“Whereas, the President of the United
States, Theodore Roosevelt, has appointed
Thursday, the 19th day of September, the
day upon which the remains of our dead
President will be consigned to their final
resting place at Canton, O., to be observed
throughout the United States as a day for
holding memorial services;
	Now, therefore, in obedience to sacred
duty, in deference to the desires of the peo-
ple and in conformity with the proclama-
tion of the President, I, Heber M. Wells,
Governor of the state of Utah, by virtue
of the authority vested in me by the laws
of this state, do hereby proclaim Thurs-
day, the 19th day of September, 1901, to
be a day of humiliation, of fast, of mourn-
ing and of prayer, to be observed as a legal
holiday in this state, and I earnestly recom-
mend that on that day all labor be sus-
pended and all places of business be closed,
and that the people assemble in their places
of worship and render such tributes of de-
votion and reverence to the will of the
Father, and such marks of respect to the
memory and character of our late devoted
President as they may deem appropriate to
the occasion,
In testimony whereof I have here-
(Seal) unto set my band and caused the
great seal of the state of Utah to
be hereunto affixed.
“Done at Salt Lake City this 16th
day of September, 1901, of the in-
dependence of the United States,
the 126th, and the sixth year of
the state of Utah.
“By the Governor.
HEBER M. WELLS
J. T. HAMMOND,
Secretary of State.”


MEMORIAL SERVICES. 
OFFICIAL NOTICE.

To the Stake Presidencies of the Church of
	Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints:

	Dear Brethren:—Agreeable with the
proclamation of His Excellency, Governor
Heber M. Wells, declaring Thursday, the
19th inst., a legal holiday, and recommend-
ing that all labor be suspended and places
of business closed, and that day be sacredly
observed as a day of humiliation, of fasting,
of mourning and of prayer, I ask that you
hold memorial services in your several
Stake houses, as evidence to the Lord of
our great sorrow for the loss the nation has
sustained in the untimely removal from


earthly life of our Chief Magistrate, Presi-
dent William McKinley, and as a token of
the respect and esteem in which he was
held by us as a community. And I sug-
gest that these services be held in the fore-
noon at eleven o’clock.
				LORENZO SNOW, 
	President of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints.
	Salt Lake City, Utah, Sep. 16, 1901.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
A TERRIBLE TRAGEDY.
THE NATION IN MOURNING.

	The telegram received in this city of the
shocking tragedy that had just occurred
plunged the whole community into deep
sorrow and mourning. In fact the news
seemed to be overwhelming.
	“Buffalo, September 6.—President Mc-
Kinley was shot twice in the stomach here
this afternoon at the Temple of Music.
His condition is serious. Two shots took
effect in the stomach. He is now at the
hospital in the Pan-American grounds. He
was shot by a stranger.
	“The President is fatally wounded. He
was shot in front of the Ethnology building
while on his way to the Temple of Music.
	“The President is fatally hurt. One shot
passed through his left breast and another
entered the abdomen.
	“The President was shot by a well dressed
man with whom he was shaking hands.
As the man approached the President it is
said he had the revolver covered with a
handkerchief and as he reached out his
hand to shake the President’s hand he fired.
Later the bullet, which had lodged against
the breast bone was extracted. The Presi-
dent was resting easy afterwards..”
	The first bulletins issued by the physi-
cians were not of a hopeful nature, yet the
people gradually hoped and prayed and
waited for further particulars, many be-
lieving that from the news received the
wounds would not prove fatal and the
fatality of the dreadful castastrophe might
be averted. That a man so strong and
vigorous as the President might pull
through; day after day the people anx-
ously looked forward to more assuring in-
telligence, and at length it came. Tele-
grams containing assurances from attend-
ing physicians announced that the Presi-
dent was out of danger, and the people
were rejoicing that his precious life had
been saved to serve his country longer,
when the astounding information spread
[-]ike wild fire that there was no hope.
	Mrs. McKinley had borne up bravely
from the first, and was buoyed up later by
the encouraging reports of the physicians.
It was feared that when she learned the
certainty that the end was not far off, she
would break down altogether, but as our
Father tempers the wind to the shorn
lamb, so He in His infinite mercy gave to
the sorrowing wife grace equal to the try-
ing hour.
	There are no words to express the feel-
ing and sympathy of the people during the
terrible struggle for life through which
President McKinley passed after the fatal
occurrence, and the hero of battles showed
in this fiery ordeal the greatest magnimin-
ty of soul; and when at last he bade his
loved ones farewell his words were char-
acteristic of the divinity that made him
great among men. “Good bye all, good
bye, it is God’s way, His will be done.”
	The heart of the nation is bowed in

[Column 2]
grief and in mourning, and prayers from
the many thousands are being offered con-
tinuously to heaven for the immediate
friends, that they may have strength and
courage to pass through the crucial ordeal.
	Just one week from the time of the
tragedy this great, good and wise man fell
asleep, to wake no more until the resur-
rection morn. In the full strength of his
mature manhood, in all the vigor of life,
he was stricken down by a cowardly as-
sassin, an enemy, not to the President
himself, but to the institutions and govern-
ment that he represented. Three times
now has the nation been thus stricken,
God grant this to be the last such foul
murder. The strong and forceful address
made by the President at the Exposition
the day previous to the terrible tragedy,
his farewell words to the American people
were strikingly in keeping with his broad
and liberal views, and should be handed
down to the schools and colleges as repre-
sentive of the noble President who died a
martyr to his country, the land he loved,
the cause of freedom, that lay near his
great and noble heart, that beat loyally for
the people who had elected him to the high-
est post of honor in the gift of a free people.
	Much as the nation deplores the calamity
that has overtaken it, there is no time to
sit and mourn, but be up and doing, to
stamp out iniquity, to put down anarchy
and discountenance all that tends to dis-
loyalty and disunion, and if possible pre-
vent any overt act that strikes at the
government of the nation, or its authorized
representatives elected by the people. The
Constitution should be considered sacred
and all laws made in conformity thereto.
	A good man has gone, a great man has
fallen, the people mourn but they must
also strive to carry out the measures and
policy that will preserve the country, so
famed for true liberty from all invaders
from foes without and foes within.
THE NATION MOURNS.
	The Presidents remains lay in state at
Milburn House until Monday morning,
September 16, when his silent form was
borne away to the national capital in
solemn and impressive state.
	Mrs. McKinley and the other members
of the family had entered their car half an
hour before the body arrived. The jour-
ney down in the carriage from the windows
of which she could see the emblems of
mourning, affected Mrs. McKinley serious-
ly, and when she stepped from the carriage
assisted by Dr. Rixey and Abner McKin-
ley, her limbs failed her and she would
have fallen, but for the support accorded
her. She entered the station and was as-
sisted into the car in which she and the
dead President had made the trip into the
city of his death. On the car her relatives
took charge of her and Dr. Rixey gave her
a tonic. Dr. Rixey thinks she will be able
to go through with the state ceremonial at
Washington, but the change of arrange-
ments so that the body shall leave Wash-
ington Tuesday night, was made so as to
avoid too great a strain. “She will be
better in Canton, than any place else,”
said Dr. Rixey.
	The train that bore the President from
Buffalo was a solid Pullman of seven cars,
drawn by two locomotives. Fifteen minu-
tes before the train was scheduled to leave
an engine sped out through the yards with
orders to precede the train by fifteen minu-

[Column 3]
tes and keep the track clear. The train
was under the general charge of George W.
Boyd, assistant general passenger agent
of the Pennsylvania. Assistant Train-
master D. M. Kinney was in direct charge.
Conductor Johnson, who came here in
President McKinley’s train from Canton,
was the Pullman Conductor. Engineer
Edwards was in charge of one engine and
Frank Bishop of the other. The train
crews was made up of picked men in the
Pennsylvania and Pullman companies.
	Behind the engines were the drawing
room cars Raleigh and Belgrade, both de-
voted to members of the press.
	Next came the dining car Waldorf, the
car Naples, intended for Senators, and the
Hungary, for President Roosevelt and the
cabinet. Next to the rear car was the
Olympia, occupied by Mrs. McKinley, and
last of all was the observation car Pacific,
in which the body rested.
	The casket was placed between the win-
dows on the observation car, where it could
be seen by the people as the train went by.
Crepe was draped from the two locomotives
and from the rear of the observation car
and the railings of the car were shrouded
in crepe. The only relief was in two tiny
pilot flags of white on the leading locomo-
tive. The station was absolutely clear.
	The funeral train bearing the body of the
martyred President started on its journey
to the national capitol at 8:34 September
16. Only the engines and observation car
were shrouded in black. The other cars
were unadorned.
	Behind the drawn blinds were Mrs. Mc-
Kinley, President Roosevelt, the cabinet
and other high dignitaries of the govern-
ment. The casket of the President, com-
pletely covered with a beautiful silk flag,
lay on a raised bier in the observation car.
Two sheaves of wheat were crossed above
the breast. A white dove with out-stretched
wings seemed to be raising from the head
of the casket. It was part of an exquisite
floral piece, in which red and white buds
pictured the American flag and the French
colors, a tribute from a Franco-American
society.
	Standing at the foot of the casket was a
soldier of the United States arms, uniformed
and accoutred with a gun at “order arms.”
At the head a sailor of the navy stood at
“attention,” cutlass at shoulder. The lid
of the casket was closed. Just off from the
apartment in a curtained niche, Lieut.
Ebroule, of the army, and Lieut Hamlin,
of the navy, remained on duty, while Col.
Bingham was in general charge of the car.
The other apartment of the car was for the
moment a barrack, guns stacked in the
sections, cutlasses on the seat, and the re-
serve of soldiers and sailors awaiting their
detail at the bar of the dead chief.
	Two narrow, overhanging viaducts under
which the train passed as it drew slowly
out of the station, bent beneath the
weight of crowded humanity. The win-
dows and roofs of the houses and the roofs
of the cars in the yards, were black with
people all uncovered.
	When the train had cleared the city, the
people were still standing at the cross-
roads and in the fields. It ran literally be-
tweet two lines of people. Farmers from
the surrounding country had driven through
the dark hours of the night to be at the
side of the track, where they could pay
their last tribute of respect. At East
Aurora, the first town through which the


[column 1]
train passed, the inhabitants had been
augmented by thousands from the sur-
rounding country. The country schools
along the way, let out, and the children the
President loved so well in life were there to
see his dead body pass. The train slowed
down at every station to allow the people
lined up on either side to get a better
view of the flag-covered casket. The popu-
lation of the little towns along the way,
like Holland, Arcade, Machiaus Junction,
Franklinville and Hinsdale had tripled and
quadrupled. The towns seemed suddenly
to grow into cities. As the train slowed
up, the mourners behind the curtained
windows of the train could hear the tolling
of the bells.
	Olean was reached at 10:29 o’clock.
There were three thousand people at the
Pennsylvania station as the train came to a
stop.

	The body of President McKinley lay in
state at the White House in the famous
East room, the Guard of Honor who
watched by the dead, members of the Loyal
Legion and the G. A. R., silently chang-
ing every two hours. At the head of the
casket an artillery man and sailor; at the
foot a cavalryman and a marine.
	The following day funeral services were
held at the Capitol Building. The casket
was borne into the Rotunda to the strains of
“Lead Kindly Light,” while every one
stood in reverence. The Invocation was
given by Dr. Henry R. Naylor, of the
Washington M. E. Church, then the choir
sang “Sometime We’ll Understand.”
When the echoes of the hymn died away,
Bishop Edward Andrews, of the M. E.
Church, who had come from Ohio to say 
the last words over his life-long friend and
parishioner, made a most eloquent and
feeling address in a sympathetic voice,
thrilling with emotion. It was a magni-
ficent tribute to the great statesman and
chief magistrate of the nation. The address
occupied fifteen minutes, when everyone in
the vast Rotunda rose and hundreds of
voices joined with the choir in singing,
“Nearer My God to Thee.” In the midst
of the singing Admiral Robley D. Evans
silently advanced and placed a blue floral
cross at the foot of the casket. Dr. W. H.
Chapman, of the Metropolitan Church, pro-
nounced the benediction. The lid of the
casket was removed from the face and the
people were allowed to view the President;
coming in at the east door and going out at
the west. No one was allowed more than
a hurried glance, they passed on both sides
of the casket.
	The President’s remains were afterwards
taken by train to his old home in Canton,
Ohio. The funeral cortege was honored
in every city and town upon the way, it is
estimated that from the time the funeral
train entered Pittsburg until it crossed the
Alleghany line, the crowd was not less
than 250,000 people. Salutes were fired
from Mount Washington and the church
bells tolled. But the climax of the great
demonstration was when the train reached
Canton. The half-masted flags were
bordered heavily with black and a big
white streamer, ten feet wide, lettered in
black, “We Mourn Our Nation’s Dead,”
hung across the main street. The church
bells were tolling. Although the clouds
had been lowering all day, the bright sun-
shine greeted the entry into Canton, the
people literally overflowed the streets. The

[column 2]
President’s body was first taken to the
court house and viewed by the masses of
the people—but afterwards brought to his
own home and deposited in his library.
	It is stated there were tons and tons of
flowers; and the collection was probably
the most beautiful ever seen in the United
States, from the four quarters of the earth
came the directions to adorn the bier of
President McKinley with flowers whose
fragrance might be symbolical of the
sweetness and purity of his life. These
tributes were from the monarchs of Europe,
rulers of South America, Governors of
British Colonies in Australia and Canada,
and the Emperor of Japan, and large num-
bers of flowers in elaborate designs from
organizations, fraternal, commercial and
political. It is said the tributes from for-
eign lands were buried beneath the floral
offerings of his owu countrymen.
	The services in the Church at Canton
vere very simple. Opened with an organ
prelude, Beethoven’s Funeral March, then
a quartette of ladies sang, “The Beautiful
sle of Somewhere.” The Hon. O. B.
Milligan delivered the invocation, the 90th
Psalm was read, and from the 15th chapter
of Corinthians, between the 46th and 58th
verses. The President’s favorite hymn,
“Lead Kindly Light,” was sung by two
male and two female voices, and Dr. C. E.
Manchester, of the M. E. Church, made
the address, which was exceedingly elo-
quent, abounding with poetic senti-
ment, expressive of the loss the peo-
ple of the country had sustained in
the death of one so noble. The speaker
alluded to his last visit to Canton, and his
last words as he left them. A short prayer
was offered by Bishop I. W. Joyce and the
hymn, “Nearer, My God, to Thee,” was
sung by the entire congregation, standing.
Monsiegneur T. P. Thorne pronounced
the benediction and the casket was borne
from the Church to the funeral car, and
the procession marched to the cemetery.

	“The church-yard where his children rest,
	The quiet spot that suits him best,
	There shall his grave be made,
	And there his bones be laid.
	And there his countrymen shall come
	With memory proud, with pity dumb,
	And strangers far and near
	For many and many a year,
	For many a year and many an age,
	While history on her ample page
	The virtues shall enroll
	Of that paternal soul.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


TABERNACLE MEMORIAL SERVICES.
	Memorial services were held in the large
Tabernacle, in this city, on Thursday,
September 19, in honor of President Wm.
McKinley, commencing at eleven a. m. In
front of the organ was a large picture of
the deceased, bordered with black and
white crepe, with the stars and stripes for
a background and underneath a bank of
potted plants and palms, American flags
on either side of the stand. President
Angus M. Cannon presided. The exer-
cises opened with the choir singing the
hymn, “Farewell, all earthly honors.”
Prayer was offered by Dr. James E. Tal-
mage and the choir sang, “Thou dost not
weep to weep alone.” Chopin’s Funeral
March was played during the exercises, the
strains of music from the great organ thrill-
ing the audience with a solemn tenderness.
	Bishop O. F. Whitney delivered the
Memorial Address opening with a beauti-


ful poetical sentiment, and eloquently por-
traying the life and character of the noble
hero, who had been made the victim of the
cowardly assassin. He alluded to the
tragic death of President Garfield twenty
years ago, and the nobility and patriotic
heroism of the three martyred Presidents.
It was a discourse full of sublime feeling,
and in a voice and manner befitting the
solemn occasion.
	For the closing hymn the choir sang
“Nearer, My God, to Thee.” and Apostle
A. H. Lund pronounced the benediction.


OBITUARY.
	We are called upon to report the death of our
beloved sister, Annie Peterson, who was suddenly
taken from us by coming in contact with a street
car, through which her poor body was dreadfully
mangled. We much deplore the sad accident to
so good and faithful a sister in the 13th ward Re-
lief Society, one who was ever willing to make
herself useful, also being a regular attendant at
other meetings in the ward.
	Sister Peterson was born in Lofta Socken, Cal-
mer, Sweden, September 21, 1849. Came to Utah
July 29, 1880, was married to Eric John Peterson
and left a widow about ten years ago, having two
daughters who still survive her, and when quite
girls always attended the 13th ward Sunday
chool.
	This dear sister has now gone to rest with the
faithful. The funeral was held in the 13th ward
Assembly Hall, on Sunday, August 18, 1901, her
death occuring on August 16. The service was
well attended and many tokens of love and re-
spect were paid to the departed.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, it has pleased our heavenly Father to
remove our dear sister to a brighter sphere, there-
fore be it
	Resolved, That we mourn the loss of a faithful
sister in the cause of truth, and desire to emulate
her earnest labors.
	Resolved, That we tender our sympathy to the
bereaved family, praying that the Holy Spirit may
rest upon them, that they may realize that she has
gone to rest with the faithful, and will come forth
to a glorious immortality and eternal life.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
sent to the bereaved family, also one to the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publication.
		ELIZABETH H. GODDARD, Sec. pro tem.


ALPINE STAKE.

	Second quarterly conference of the
Relief Society of the Alpine Stake of Zion,
held at Pleasant Grove, July 26, 1901.
	Meeting commenced at ten a. m., local
President Sarah Foutz presiding. President
Jane S. Richards, of the General Board,
Sisters Emily S. Richards and Rebecca
Standring were all on the stand, also
Stephen L. Chipman and A. J. Evans, of 
the Stake presidency, and most of the local
officers.
	Meeting opened by singing "O ye
mountains high." Prayer by President S.
L. Chipman. Singing, "Do what is
right."
	President Chipman was pleased to meet
with the sisters and recommended them to
be united in the choice of a president for
the Relief Society of this Stake. Felt that
much good would be done today and God 
would be glorified.
	President Jane S. Richards spoke of the
good feeling in the singing. Said we
should appreciate our homes and our sur-
roundings, the Lord has made them all for
us. Thought the sisters were united and
would work together. We want to feel as
though we are all God's children, and we
should be kind to all. These societies
crowd out all ill feeling, for we cannot be 
members in this Church and not enjoy the


[Column 1]
Spirit of the Lord. It is a great responsi-
bility to take a position, and it is necessary
that we should support the officers selected.
	Sister Rebecca Standring rejoiced in a
knowledge of the work. Spoke of her
early experience, and being raised up from
a bed of affliction through the power of
God by revelation. The Lord had been
with her ever since and kept her in the
path of duty. The work will roll on, and
let us be faithful and seek the Lord by day
and by night and thus keep in the straight
and narrow way. Prayed that this confer-
ence might be one we shall never forget.
	Sister Emily S. Richards could testify
that she was proud to have been brought
up in the work of the Relief Society.
Would not part with her experience in the
society of Sister E. R. Snow and Sister
Zina D. H. Young and others of the elder
sisters. We grow in the work and we
grow to be helpmeets to our husbands and
if we do our duty the housework will not
be much, we make ourselves slaves to our
work. But we should strive to get intel-
ligence and the teachings of our sisters will
make us wise if we give heed to them.
Spoke of feeding the tramps and had never
been the poorer for it.
	President A. J. Evans had felt a very
peaceful influence since coming to meeting.
“We do not understand the good we do in
feeding tramps, and perhaps casting bread
upon the waters. Our missionaries have
often found that their protectors from mob
violence were tramps. This is God’s work
and our sons and daughters will carry it to
the ends of the earth. The mothers are
the last to give up their wayward sons, but
always hoped there would be a turn and the
wayward will become repentant and be
found in the path of duty finally.”
	Sisters Harriet Jacobs, Ellen D. Clarke
and Sister Anderson each made a few re-
marks, confirming what had been said by
the former speakers and bearing testimony
to the truth of the work.
	Singing, “Where the voice of friend-
ship’s heard.” Benediction by President
A. J. Evans.
	Afternoon session convened at two p.
m., Counselor Annie C. Hindley presiding.
	Opened by singing, O, say what is
truth.” Prayer by Bishop Thorne. Singing,
“Come, listen to a prophet’s voice.”
	President Jane S. Richards was pleased
to see so good an attendance. Was sure
the sisters enjoyed their religion who
would come out in such hot weather.
Thought it was as necessary for one as
another to attend meeting, and the young
women should come and learn their duties,
for as long as there is a Bishop there will
be a Relief Society. Hoped the sisters
would sustain the president who would be
appointed today, and presented the name of
Sister Rebecca Standring.
	It was moved by Sister Harriet Jacobs
that Sister Rebecca Standring be sustained
as president of the Alpine Stake Relief
Society. Seconded by Sister Ellen D.
Clarke and carried unanimously.
	The counselors selected were Sisters

[Column 2]
Annie C. Hindley and Harriet Jacobs, also
Emma Featherstone, secretary.
	Sister Richards urged the sisters to be
one and pull together, and they would be
able to accomplish much good, also re-
minded them of the Woman’s Building and
advised them to economize and save the
means to help erect it.
	Sister Standring felt the weight of the
confidence placed in her by the sisters.
Wished to lift them up and unite them, all
the good that has been done has been
through love and unity. Hoped that every
branch of the society would have as much
confidence in her as Lehi has. Asked the
sisters for their faith, their works and their
confidence, by this means the work of God
will be accomplished.
	Sister Hindley desired to do her duty in
accepting the position as counselor to the
president of Alpine Stake Relief Society.
Said “If we minister comfort to our sisters
it will be through the Spirit of God. The
credit is due to our Heavenly Father for all
the good we can do.” Had visited all the
branches in the Stake and found them in
good order, and all doing the best they can.
	Sister Jacobs thought that what had been
done this afternoon was the right thing.
Felt well in the work and determined to do
her duty. The Lord hears our prayers and
though we may make sacrifices it will be
all right when we get through.
	President S. L. Chipman always felt
humble in standing before the people.
Spoke of his missionary experience and al-
ways felt to depend on the Lord. There is
only one thing that can satisfy the people
and that is the Spirit of God. It is the
same spirit that protects the young man on
his mission. Exhorted the counselors to
sustain the president, and do and perform
the work that she lays out.
	President A. J. Evans arose to bless the
sisters, said President “Standring was a
prophetess, he had heard her prophecies
and had seen them fulfilled. Said “God
bless the sisters who have been chosen to-
day, and God bless those who have come
to bless and instruct us.”
	Bishop Thorne made a few remarks.
Said it was a responsible position to be a
mother, but when you do your duty how
great your blessings are.
	Singing, “An angel from on high.”
Benediction by Patriarch Hensen Walker
		EMMA FEATHERSTONE, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
much as possible for you money. TRY US.

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank n Utah.
	Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts.
	The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW
	We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said
interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos 1-3-5 Main Street.

The Most Convenient Local Train Service
in the State is given by the.....
Oregon Short Line
Railroad
FIVE Fast Daily Trains Each Way between
Salt Lake City and Ogden...,..

Se that your tickets read via the
“SHORT LINE”
And Get the bes

CITY TICKET OFFICE for tickets to all points, 100 West
Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.

S. W. Eccles, D. E. Burley,
Gen Tfc. Mgr. G. P. & T. A


SLEEP FOR THE BRAINWORKERS.—As
life becomes concentrated, and its pursuits
more eager, short sleep and early rising
become impossible. We take more sleep
than our ancestors, and we take more be-
cause we need more. Six hours’ sleep
will do very well for a ploughman or a
bricklayer, and any other man who has no
exhaustion but that produced by manual
labor, and the sooner he takes it after his
labor is over the better. But for a man
whose labor is mental the stress of work is
on his brain and nervous system, and for
him who is tired in the evening, after a


day of mental application, neither early to
bed nor early to rise is wholesome. He
needs letting down to the level of repose.
The longer the interval between the active
use of the brain and his retirement to bed
the better his chance of sleep and refresh-
ment. To him an hour after midnight is
probably as good as two hours before it, and
then his sleep will not so completely and
quickly restore him as it will his neighbor
who is physically tired. He must not
only go to bed later, but lie longer. His
 best sleep probably lies in the early morn-
ing hours, when all the nervous excite-
ment has passed away and he is in abso-
lute rest.


Kanab Relief Society 
Woman's Exponent. 
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation 
Vol. 30 		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1901. 		No. 6


CONTENTS. 
President Lorenzo Snow’s Last Sermon...........	41
A Good Woman Gone...................Jane R. Cox	42
Testimonial ..............................Alice Solomon	43
Obituaries..........................................................	47
A Biography........................Jane Price Roberts	47
Walks Around Canterbury........Lydia D. Alder	48
EDITORIAL—Official Announcements..........	44
	In Memoriam............................................	44
	D. R. Columbus Day.................................	46
	A Delightful Reception.............................	46
	A Very Pretty Kensington.........................	47
	A Pleasant Gathering................................	47
POETRY—Aunt Zina’s Jewels...Ellis R. Shipp	41
	In Memory of President Snow..................
	.............................Emily H. Woodmansee	41
	An Evening Prayer............A. E. Wayland	43


AUNT ZINA’S JEWELS.

Sisters, we have lost our Mother,
	Honored president and friend!
She who bade us love each other, 
	And the rights of Truth defend.
She who ne’er was known to falter,
	In the days of sore distress,
Placing all upon the altar,
	In the cause of Righteousness.
Let us follow her example,
	Place her jewels in each breast,
Chastity, with impulse noble,
	Valor, to endure each test,
Truth and trustfulness in Father,
	Hope, Humility and Love,
Bound in one bright chain together,
	Linking hearts with God above.
					ELLIS R. SHIPP.


IN MEMORY OF OUR LATE PRESIDENT,
		LORENZO SNOW.

Another President has passed from earth, 
	And left a host of loving friends behind;
“A man of God” who prized Truth’s wondrous
		worth.
	And sensed its import unto human kind.

Like Apostolic men of olden times,
	Preachers of Righteousness unpraised, unpaid,
He scattered light afar in many climes
	And many converts, by God’s help he made,

In danger oft, upon the land and sea;
	A noble captive, doom’d for conscience sake,
Caged was his body, but his soul was free,
	Such sterling Saints a heaven of hell can make

Refined and sensitive and true as steel,
	The sacred law of heaven was his delight;
Nothing could shake his faith, or quench his zeal
	Nothing could force him to renounce the right.

From bondage freed, by God’s o’erruling hand.
	Snatched from the furnace, tried as purest gold,
He filled the greatest role in all the land
	Wise guardian of “The Master’s” flock and
		fold.

Shall Zion’s children Saints of latter-days,
	Who knew his purity of heart and mind
Shall Zion’s bards neglect to sound his praise,
	Whose peer, whose equal, we shall rarely find?

Full of good works, of ripe old age he died;
	Not in a murderer’s malice stricken down,
Yet by uncounted ordeals, sanctified.
	Lorenzo Snow has earned a martyr’s crown.
					EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.


[Column 1]
	PRESIDENT LORENZO SNOW’S
			LAST SERMON.
 
	[Delivered at the Tabernacle in Salt Lake City,
Sunday afternoon, October 6, 1901.]

	Addressing the vast congregation of
brethren and sisters, President Snow’s
remarks in substance as published in the

[Column 2]
Deseret Evening News on Monday, October
7, were as follows:
	I marvel that I have ventured out today;
but I have something to say to you, and I
trust that I may have sufficient strength of
voice, and time enough to say it. And I
hope you will give me your faith and
prayers that I may address you.
	I am delighted to hear that there has been
such a good spirit in the Conference—a
spirit that has enabled the brethren to
speak of the glorious progress the Saints
have made. The Saints have not been idle
during the past six months. They have done
their duty to a great extent. They have
exercised their faith in behalf of the
brethren during this conference more than
at the other conferences. They are
improving in this respect. And if they
continue to improve in this, the brethren at
the next conference will have still more of
the Spirit by which to speak to them.
	During the past day or two I have had a
distressing cold, rendering me hoarse and
I feared that I should be unable to be here
at all. But through the blessings of the
Lord and your faith and prayers I am here.
	I want to say something to you about a
subject that deeply concerns the Priest-
hood—you Presidents of Stakes, you
Bishops of wards, you Elders, High Priests
and High Councilors. I wish you to
remember what I say. It is of interest to
all the officers in the Church. There are
fifty Stakes in Zion, presided over by a
president and counselors. In each of
these Stakes there is an average of at least
eight wards, each having a Bishop at its
head. Now, this means a tremendous
responsibility. These details of all these
organizations depend on the fifty presi-
dents. There is something, therefore, for
each of them to do. There is a great deal
for them to accomplish. This responsibili-
ty is sacred and extensive. Though these
presidents have been faithful, they have
not been as faithful as they could be—as
they ought to be. They have not sensed
their responsibilities as they should do.
	The Church is now seventy-two years
old, and during this period we have im-
proved. This is right. We ought to be
doing greater things than we did in our
youth. The Lord is coming one of these
days. He is interested in what you officers
are doing. You presidents of Stakes should
attend to the affairs in your districts. Look
after the interests of the people whom you
oversee as you would look after the inter-
ests of your own family—your own wives
and children. You should think of
them day and night. When you go to rest
you should devote half an hour before you 
sleep in thinking of their welfare. Try to
find out where you can help them. See
wherein you can advise them in their
spiritual and material affairs. Ascertain
whether they are spending too much or
too little, and whether they can spend their
money to better advantage. Then, too,
the Bishops have to be looked after.
Bishops, however wise—and many of them
are wise—have to be cared for. This is

[Column 3]
the duty, not of the Apostles, but of the
presidents of Stakes. It is the duty of the
High Priests, Elders. Teachers and Dea-
cons to look after the interests of the
Church in Zion. Do not lay this duty on
the Apostles. They have too much
already. They ought to look to these
things of which I have been speaking
occasionally at least.
	Now, the Lord has ordained a certain
channel through which He is going to
exalt His children, overcome wickedness
and uplift righteousness. This channel is
the Holy Priesthood—His authority to
men. And the Priesthood has various
officers the duties of whom He has clearly
shown. The special duty of the Seventies
and the Apostles is to look after the world.
The duty of the High Priests and Elders
is to look after our home interests—to build
up the waste places of Zion. The time is
coming when you cannot have the Twelve
to depend upon—when you will have to do
these things yourselves. They will have
other duties to perform. I want you to
remember this. 
	It is a tremendous responsibility this
matter of the Priesthood. You presidents
of Stakes, know how the Lord is obeyed in
your district of country. Know whether
the people keep the Sabbath day, whether
they profane the name of Deity, whether
they pay their tithes, use tobacco, build
meeting houses and school houses—know
everything they do. God will help you in
this; for it is what he requires of you. But
when you are depending on the Apostles
to do these things you are doing what you
have no business to do. Let the High
Council visit the wards with you, that they
also may know what is the condition of
the people. Be lively in performing these
duties.
	God bless you all, brethren and sisters.
I am glad to see such a vast multitude of
people. I am delighted, as I said in the
beginning, at the good spirit that has been,
poured out upon you. I thank you for
exercising your faith and prayers in my
behalf. When I got up here I did not
think I conld say half a dozen words. But
have been enabled to say what I had on
my mind. Of course a great deal more,
might be said. It might be expanded and
made much more of.
	There is another subject that I wish to
speak of. I am getting along in years now,
being nearly eighty-eight years old. I
have had only one counselor since Presi-
dent Cannon died. I have chosen another
counselor. I have sought the guidance of
the Lord in the matter, and the Lord has
directed the choice. I have chosen a
strong, energetic man, and I think he will
be a great help to myself and President
Smith; I hope, therefore, you will sustain
him. God bless you all.


Mrs. Lillian M. Stevens has just been
elected president for the twenty-fifth time
of the Maine Woman’s Christian Temper-
ance Union.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting was
held in the 14th Ward hall, August 31,
1901, with President M. I. Horne presid-
ing. Singing, “O, my Father.” Prayer
by Counselor Elizabeth Webb. Singing,
“When first the glorious light of truth.”
Minutes of former meeting read and
accepted.
	President Horne said though our Presi-
dent, Zina D. H. Young’s, body was
waiting to be buried, she felt there was no
need to mourn for her, her life was well
spent, she was a true Mother in Israel, she
had spent her life time in this work, and
her life was almost perfect. She never
spoke of people’s faults, she never wished
to hear anyone find fault with another,
especially the authorities of the Church.
There is too much of it in Zion. We have
a great many trials but the Lord has
ordained it, and He will always bring com-
fort to us. When we are possessed of evil
spirits let us rid ourselves of them.
	Counselor Elizabeth J. Stevenson said
when she came into the room she thought,
“O, ye faithful ones!” There are always
a few faithful. She had recently visited
Bear Lake Stake, she enjoyed meeting with
the sisters. She had been acquainted with
our Mother, Aunt Zina, about forty-five
years. She honored and revered her be-
cause of her faithfulness and integrity to
the truth. She would never say an un-
kind word of any one, but helped all to
gain a blessing. We must abide by the.
golden rule, “Do to others as we wish to
be done by,” not be jealous, but be pre-
pared to stand in holy places.
	Sister Barnes spoke of blessings bestowed
upon her by Aunt Zina, felt she had been
one of God’s noble women.
	Sister Mary L. Morris said that Aunt
Zina, twenty-five years ago, in this hall,
said there were two things she always
wanted to get away from, “a house on fire
and a person speaking evil of another.”
	The congregation sang “This God is the
God we adore.”
	A sister bore her testimony to the truth
of the Gospel.
	Sister R. R. Grant felt happy to meet
with her sisters, thankful she could be
numbered with the Saints. She had
received a letter from her son, H. J. Grant,
that he was on ship board, was well and
blessed of the Lord. Felt we should al-
ways be happy that we can have the privi-
lege of preparing for the life to come.
	Sister Margaret Gardner said she felt the
words of Sister Zina D. H. Young would
perhaps have more weight with us now she
is gone.
	Sister Barnes spoke of the grand recep-
tion there was in heaven when such faith,
ful ones as Sister Zina entered.
	Sister Nebeker felt thankful she was
born in this dispensation and she was will-
ing to listen to the teachings of the Gospel.
Said she had spent many pleasant hours
with Aunt Zina and her sister, Presendia
Kimball.
	Elizabeth Buzzo spoke of her love for
Sister Zina D. H. Young and her familiar
association with her.
	Sister Shoenfeld spoke of the blessings
that had been bestowed upon her by Sis-
ter Zina and her sister and all she promised
had been fulfilled.
	Sister Smart said she felt that our loss
was Sister Zina’s gain, remember her last
words, “Let us make the best of it.” 

[Column 2]
	Sister Lydia D. Alder felt we should feel
it is a privilege to speak in these meetings.
Speaking of Sister Zina she said: “Who
has she not administered to? Who has
she not blessed? ‘He is with us all the
way,’ Aunt Zina said, ‘there is no dark
shadow to pass through, make the best of
it.’ Said she had not the fear of death that
she once had, we do not come alone, neither
do we go alone.” Alluded to the blessing
Sister Zina had given her before she went
on her mission abroad.
	Sister Mary P. Silver could not tell of
the blessings she had received from Sister
Zina, her life had been a blessing to us.
	Sister Stevenson spoke of the blessing
President Lyman had given Aunt Zina be-
fore going to Canada, and how his words
had been fulfilled.
	Sister Arnold related a dream and bore
her testimony.
	Sister Paul bore her testimony, and
Sister Irvine spoke of the comfort and
blessing Sister Zina had been to her.
	Sister Mair wondered what would life be
without the Gospel, she could not imagine.
	President Horne said it was profitable to
her to meet with her sisters here.
	Meeting adjourned. Singing, “Weep,
weep not for me, Zion.” Benediction by
Maria W. Wilcox.
			J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.


[Column 1]
A GOOD WOMAN GONE.
	We have been called upon to chronicle
the death of our dear departed sister,
Sarah Ann Stevenson Fullmer, who died
at her home September 7, after an illness
of six weeks.
	She was the mother of twelve children,
seven sons and five daughters, all of
whom are living, seventy nine grandchil-
dren, sixty-eight of whom are living and
five great grandchildren.
	She had the satisfaction of having all
her children with her during her last ill-
ness. All that loving hands could do was
done to keep her with us, but the Lord or-
dained otherwise, and through his mercy
she passed away calm as a summer morn-
ing, none realizing that death was so near.
BIOGRAPHICAL.
	She was born in England, July 31, 1835,
and was baptized into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints in 1848. Her
father’s home was always a stopping place
for the Elders. Young as she was she
took great pleasure in distributing tracts
and helping them sing the songs of Zion,
as she was a beautiful singer.
	In the year 1853 she emigrated to
America with her parents, remaining in
Philadelphia where she worked with her
father at the tailor trade until 1855, when
she came to Salt Lake City with a com-
pany of Saints. On October 12, of the
same year, she married John S. Fullmer
and moved to Spanish Fork in 1857 re-
maining there until 1861, when she again
moved and made her home in Springville,
and there the greater portion of her family
were born. Those who have undergone
the hardships of those early days in Utah
can in a measure know what they were to
her.
	Her husband losing his all in the driv-
ings of Nauvoo, pioneering into Salt Lake
and neighboring towns and devoting his
time and talent for missionary work and
large families on his hands, it necessitated

[Column 2]
all to do what they could to make the bur-
den lighter, and this she bravely did, as
all who know her can attest. Being an
expert seamstress and her father a pro-
fessional tailor, she helped him in his shop
year after year, working in the late hours
of the night to prepare her home and little
ones to again leave on the morrow.
	In 1881 her husband come into Castle
Valley, with the desire, as this country
was new, of getting her comfortably
located with land for her boys, who had by
that time grown to be a great help. Short-
ly after they had moved into their new
home the husband and father died, leav-
ing her to be father and mother to that
large family of children which she has
creditably accomplished.
	Her farm being five miles from town
she has often walked that distance to
attend her meetings. She was a zealous
worker for many years, being chosen
teacher of the Theological department
when the Sunday School was first organ
ized in this place. When the Relief Soci-
ety was organized she was chosen first
counselor to the president, she frequently
traveled with the Stake officers through
the Stake, and later in the absence of
President Annie U. Larson at the Temple
at Manti was chosen as aid, she became
thoroughly known and loved by the sisters
through the Stake.
	Nature had endowed her with the attri-
butes of a nurse and for many years she
was seen at the bedside of the suffering
and in times of sickness she knew no fear.
	After her children were sufficiently
grown that she could spare the time she
began to write, bringing forth that latent
talent for her own development and the
benefit of her sister woman. She fre-
quently wrote for the Exponent, her
articles being strong and forceful.
	We can truly say of her she was a self-
made woman. When the Suffrage Asso-
ciation was organized through the territory
she was chosen president of Emery Co
She was sent twice as a delegate to the
conventions held at Salt Lake city to
represent this county.
	After statehood the ladies of this place
deciding the Suffrage Association no
longer necessary organized a club for edu-
cational purposes, naming it the Union
Club. She succeeded Mrs. Lizzie Reid as
president and was sent as a delegate to the
Federation of Clubs held in Salt Lake
City. Politically she has ever been thor-
oughly Democratic and has been chosen a
delegate by her party many times to the
County Conventions where she has ever
stood up for justice and correct principles.
	She was elected school trustee of this
place and was re-elected July, 1900, without
an opponent. Many of the little children
will miss her presence in the school room.
In all her walks in life Sister Fullmer has
been thorough, her motto being “what
was worth doing at all, was worth doing
well.” One of her greatest characteristics.
was punctuality, nothing annoyed her
more than being late.
	We feel she has now gone on to higher
attainments and greater opportunities, for
we know there is no standing still to an
ambition such as hers, and although we
will ever miss her we can of a truth pro-
claim “She hath done what she could.”
				JANE R. COX,
				JOSIE E. CHILDS,
						Committee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.										43


AN EVENING PRAYER.

		BY ADELAIDE SCHMIDT WAYLAND.

I pray Thee, Father, now the day is done.
That Thou, who knowest my course since morn
	begun,
Wilt grant me mercy for my wrongful deeds,
That, even thoughtless though they were, were
	seeds
That now have taken root in human soil,
And can be cast out but by days of toil.

If there is aught that I have done for Thee,
I ask Thee, Father, to accept from me
What'er it be, and with it shall be sent
My heartfelt joy at its accomplishment.
My life, dear Father, consecrate anew.
Make me a Christian, constant, worthy, true.

Let not my heart on earthly things be bent,
Then, if Thy will denies them, I shall be content,
Let me remember that all mortals here
Are like myself in Thine own image dear;
Then in my dealings with them, Thou shalt see,
I'll do as I would have them do by me.

And, for the whole wide world, dear Lord, I pray
The prayers I make for self, day after day,
And, if the world and I will help Thee, Lord,
To answer all I ask—O, Son of God !
Thou soon shalt find the Earth o'erflowed, indeed,
With souls well fitted for the Heavenly Mead.


TESTIMONIAL.

	Inasmuch as Sister Mary Jeremy is in
her seventy-fourth year and in delicate
health, not feeling able to continue her
duties as First Counselor in the Twenty-
Second Ward Relief Society, she has
tendered her resignation; and
	Whereas, we, the members of the Relief
Society, give her our heartfelt thanks for
her kind, wise and efficient performance of
her duties while acting for twelve years in
that capacity, 
	Resolved, that we present this Testimonial
of thanks to our sister. 
	Resolved that we place this Testimonial
on the records of the Twenty-Second Ward
Relief Society.
	Resolved, that we send a copy to the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.
				RACHEL WHIPPLE,
						    President.
				MARIA L. NEBEKER,
							Counselor.
				ALICE SOLOMON,
							Secretary.


MRS. ALDER’S LETTER FROM ENGLAND.
	[Extracts of a letter from President George Q.
Morris of the London Conference, Aug. 15, 1901.]
Sister Lydia D. Alder:
	I was much pleased at receiving your
letter of July 25, which reached me a week
or so ago. Many thanks for the tickets
and suggestions concerning the tourists
sleepers. I wish you might have received
the same before your journey. Hope by
this time you are entirely free from your
troublesome cough. I presume being at
home soon set you right since you were
there in a favorable climate, though warm,
and had some home comforts, I think you en-
dured serious inconvenience during the two
years of your work here, and nothing but
your zeal in the work would make the con-
ditions endurable, or the bearing of them
anything but a hardship.
	However, you bore them faithfully and
uncomplainingly, and did an excellent
work withal, a better work than many a
younger and stronger missionary. I want
to acknowledge to you my appreciation of
your labors in this Conference and express
my praise for their excellence and extent.

[Column 2]
	I think as you look back on the two
years you spent here you must gain much
joy. I think, too, you have and will real-
ize many blessings. Since coming in
touch with the work of the sister mission-
aries, I have always been an advocate lor
them. In most ways they stand equal to
the brethren; in many ways they are able
to do more than the brethren ordinarily are
able to do.
	We now have, as you may know, four
sisters laboring with us Sister Penfold
was sent to me to take Sister Holbrook’s
place with Sister Sargeant, and about a
month ago, when Sisters Woodward, of
Idaho, and Clark, of Salt Lake, were sent
over, President Lyman sent them both
down here, so that for the present four are
laboring in London. They are very active
in tracting and street work.
	The results of our half summer’s outdoor
work are being manifest now in the amount
of opposition that we are receiving on all
sides. On the streets a combination of
local preachers and church workers from
various denominations have banded to-
gether, for once to hold regular meetings
for the purpose of exposing “Mormonism.”
They come into the places we regularly
visit, and go over the old stories, so often
repeated under similar conditions. The
opposition we have always been receiving
in the Finsbury park burst into a storm
about a month ago, and after being thor-
oughly excited by one of our opponents at
the meeting, the mob broke up our gather-
ing and drove our brethren and sisters out
of the park, amid jeering and hooting.
Some threats were made, but no violence
was attempted.
	The next Sunday we went back as usual
and under the protection of an extra force
of police and detectives, held an excellent
meeting. We have been doing so every
Sunday morning since, and have had good
crowds that listened attentively. Last Sun-
day during the latter part of our meeting,
I think there were three hundred people
listening with the greatest attention. We
owe much of the interest taken in us to the
activity of our enemies.
	The afternoon following the morning
upon which we were driven from the park,
we baptized seven persons in London. Dur-
ing last month fifteen baptisms were re-
corded. seven of them were in Southhamp-
ton.
	Brother Dougall is now in charge in
Stratford. He will do a good work among
the Saints there.
	Last Sunday Brother Simmonds, whose
daughter you may remember at the
Stratford meeting, was baptized into the
Church at Stratford.
	You have no doubt seen the Stratford
Saints who went out to Salt Lake, as well
as Brother Sherwood and others, who came
from laboring there and among us.
	We are preparing for our conference,
which is to be held on October 6. Presi-
dent Lyman we hope will be with us. We
shall try and surpass the one held last
spring. Up to date we have had about
twenty-three baptisms since last conference,
and are hoping for enough more to make a
very favorable report by conference time, a
little more than two months hence.
	We now have but twenty-three mission-
aries in the field. When I came about a
year ago and went into the priesthood
meeting, I think I found about thirty-five.
We are beginning to feel a bit lonesome.

[Column 3]
All here are well and join in kindest
regards to yourself and daughter, May.
Remember me kindly to all old friends and
associates in the work.
	With kindest regards, I remain,
		Faithfully your brother,
			GEORGE Q. MORRIS


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Seventy-seven tribes are represented
among the 1007 pupils in the Indian train-
ing school at Carlisle.
	Roosevelt is the first President of the
United States since Abraham Lincoln who
has expressed himself publicly in favor
of woman suffrage before attaining the
presidency.
	President W. F. Slocum, of Colorado
College, announces an anonymous gift of
$100,000 for the erection of the Science
Building. Dr. D. K. Pearsons, the
Chicago philanthropist, is believed to be
the giver. He gave $50,000 to the college
in 1894, and last January an additional
$50,000 toward the Science Building. The
building will be larger than at first planned
and will cost $3,000,000.
	Mrs. Roosevelt has rented what is
know as “The President’s Pew,” at St.
John’s Episcopal Church in Washington,
for herself and such of her children and
visitors as may care to worship there. She
was reared in that communion, while her
husband belongs to the Dutch Reformed
Church, and generally attends it. The
difference of religion has never disturbed
their perfect domestic harmony. President
Roosevelt, who is an avowed believer in
woman suffrage, is entirely willing that
his wife should call her soul her own, and
go to whatever church she pleases.
	A dispatch from Christiana, dated
October 9, says: “The privilege recently
granted women to vote for, and sit in
municipal councils in Norway is adding
unusual interest to the approaching
elections. The women’s battle-cry is
‘away with politicians; only men and
women who further social reform to the
front[-]’ Conservatives and Liberals are
trying to induce the women to vote for
their candidates, but even in the smallest
towns the women insist upon their right to
pick the best men of both parties and to
support the women candidates. The men 
are greatly disturbed and do not know
how to vote.”
	Liliuokalani, formerly queen of Hawaii,
recently celebrated her sixty-second birth-
day by giving several entertainments at
which hundreds of natives and a few
whites were present. Three hundred
guests breakfasted with the deposed queen
and then came a general reception. In
 the afternoon there was a great luau, or
feast at which Federal Judge Estee was
present, and escorted the hostess to a large
tent, under which the luau was given. He
was seated on a mat at her right hand.
The food was served on mats on the
ground, and the staple articles were poi
and raw fish. It was reported that the
ex-queen would invite a number of her old
political enemies to celebrate the burying
of the hatchet, but only her personal
friends and partisans were present at the
feast.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts.  No reduction made for clubs.  City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	dvertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparie
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal di-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER, 1901.


OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENT.
To the Officers and Members of the Church
	of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints:

	This certifies that at the regular meeting
of the Council of the Apostles, held in the
Salt Lake Temple, this 17th day of 
October, 1901, at which the following 
Apostles were present: Joseph F. Smith,
Brigham Young, John Henry Smith,
George Teasdale, John W. Taylor, Marrin-
er W. Merrill, Anthon H. Lund, Matthias
F. Cowley, Abraham O. Woodruff, Rudger
Clawson and Reed Smoot, also Patriarch
John Smith. The following business was
unanimously transacted:
	Joseph F. Smith was chosen and set
apart as President of the Church of Jesus 
Christ of Latter-day Saints. And John R.
Winder was sustained and set apart as
First and Anthon H. Lund was sustained
and set apart as Second Counselor in the
First Presidency of the Church.
	President Joseph F. Smith was then
sustained as Trustee-in-Trust for the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	President Joseph F. Smith was also 
sustained as President of the Salt Lake
Temple, with John R. Winder as his
assistant. 
	Elder Brigham Young was sustained and
set apart as President of the Quorum of the
Twelve Apostles.
	And it was decided to hold a special
general conference of the Church for the 
purpose of voting upon these several ac-
tions, said conference to be held in Salt
Lake City, on Sunday, the 10th of Novem-
ber next. 
		GEORGE F. GIBBS, Secretary.

To the Officers and Members of the Church
	of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints:

	Dear Brethren and Sisters—Agreeable
with the decision of the Council of Apostles
at their regular meeting today, as set forth
in the above official announcement, we
hereby call a general conference of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints 
to be held in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake
City, on Sunday, the 10th of November,
next, at 10 o’clock a m., for the purpose
of voting upon the above proceedings.
				JOSEPH F. SMITH,
				JOHN R. WINDER,
				ANTHON H. LUND.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.
PRESIDENT LORENZO SNOW.

“It will only be a sleep
When with songs and dewy light
Morning blossoms out of night
He will open his bright eyes
’Neath the palms of Paradise
Yet we foolish ones must weep.”

	President Lorenzo Snow, prophet, seer
and revelator of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, passed from this life
into the great beyond on Thursday,
October 10, 1901, 3:45 p. m., at the Bee
Hive House in this city, surrounded by a
large number of his family, his two
counselors, Joseph F. Smith and Rudger
Clawson, and a number of the Quorum of
the Twelve Apostles. He had only been
seriously ill a short time, in fact he pre-
sided at a meeting on Wednesday morning
the day before his decease, although he
had been suffering from a severe cold and
cough for several days previous. His
death so unexpected was a severe shock to
all those who heard the sad tidings, and it
seemed almost impossible to believe it had
actually taken place.
	On the Sabbath day, October 6, Presi-
dent Snow preached to the assembled
multitude and his voice rang out as strong
and clear as in his palmiest days; his form
was erect and his eyes shone as bright as
ever, aud those who saw and heard him
could scarcely credit that in so short a time
he would pass from their sight into the
great beyond, but so it is, and none know
the day nor the hour.

		“Beyond life’s toils and cares,
Its hopes and joys, its weariness and sorrow,
Its sleepless nights, its days of smiles and tears,
Will be a long sweet life, unmarked by years,
		One bright, unending morrow!

		Beyond time’s troubled stream,
Beyond the chilling waves of death’s dark river.
Beyond life’s lowering clouds and fitful gleams,
Its dark realities and brighter dreams—
		A beautiful forever!

		No aching hearts are there,
No tear-dimmed eyes, no form by sickness wasted,
No cheek grown pale through penury or care,
No spirits crushed beneath the woes they bear,
		No sighs for bliss untasted.

		Ear hath not heard the song
Of rapturous praise within that shining portal;
No heart of man hath dreamed what joys belong
To that redeemed and happy blood-washed throng,
		All glorious and immortal.”

	It does seem wrong to mourn for one
who has lived so long and to such noble
purpose, who has gone to join those whom
he loved here on earth, wives, children,
parents, brothers and sisters. And yet it
is natural because they who go are missed
in their accustomed places, and those
whom they held dear are lonely.

		“Death hath made no breach
In love and sympathy, in hope and trust,
No outward sign or sound our ears can reach:
But there’s an inward spiritual speech
That greets us still, though mortal tongues be
	dust.”

	President Snow was indeed a very
remarkable man, and his long life and
eventful career emphasized those character-
stics which were so conspicuous in his
later manhood. He was a man of very
great energy and business enterprise. In
his early life he had been ambitious for
knowledge and determined to obtain a
classical education. And yet he had in his
veins the revolutionary blood which made
him ardently patriotic with a desire to 
serve the country he loved in a military

[Column 2]
capacity, and he received a commission, first
as ensign and afterwards lieutenant in the
Ohio State militia. When twenty-one he
entered Oberlin College and expecting to
make a mark in a literary course including
languages, for which he had a decided
taste.
	Lorenzo Snow was of the New England
Puritan parentage, his forefathers having
arrived at an early date in the settlement
of the colonies, and he inherited the
religious fervor that characterized his
ancestors.
	He was born in Mantua, Portage Co.,
Ohio, April 3, 1814, the Snow family
having moved west from Massachusetts
only a short time before his birth. His
sister, Eliza R. Snow, received the Gospel
first, and it was from her he first heard of
Joseph Smith, the Prophet, and became
interested in the Gospel and was baptized
and ordained an Elder and began preach-
ing among his relatives and friends in
Ohio, many of whom he converted to the
faith in which he so earnestly believed and
to which he eventually consecrated his
whole life.
	In 1838 he went with his family and
parents from Kirtland to Missouri, but was
on a mission in Kentucky when the
Mormon people were driven from there to
Illinois. He joined them in Nauvoo in
May, 1840 and the same month left for a
European mission. While in England he
was made one of the Presidency of the
mission, and had the honor and privilege
of presenting the Book of Mormon to Queen
Victoria and the Prince Consort, through
the courtesy of Sir Henry Wheatly.
	After his return to Nauvoo he taught
school as an occupation, and when the
Nauvoo Legion was organized was made
a Captain.
	When the Saints left Nauvoo in
February, 1846, he was one among the
number of exiles, but after reaching Mt.
Pisgah in the spring remained over until
the spring of 1847, and crossed the plains
the following year, 1848, Captain of a
hundred wagons in Brigham Young’s
company to Salt Lake.
	February 12, 1849, he was ordained an
Apostle, and became a member of the
Quorum of the Twelve. In October of
that year he was appointed to open up a
mission in Italy and the adjoining countries
with three other Elders assisting, organ-
zed a mission in Italy, in November, 1850.
The first converts were Waldenses and the
work spread into Switzerland. At this
time he translated the Book of Mormon and
some pamphlets into Italian. He then
started for India, but on account of an
accident to the ship at Malta he was disap-
pointed in visiti[-]g the Orient and returned
home. The fall after he was appointed by
the Church authorities to locate fifty fami-l
ies within what is now Box Elder County.
He at once proceeded to lay out a city, and
called it Brigham and he was very soon
after made President of that Stake of Zion.
When the County was organized he was
a member of the Council of the Territorial
Assembly of Utah, and continued in the
Legislature for thirty years, during that
time he was twelve years President of the
Council.
	In 1864 he was called on a special mis-
sion to the Sandwich Islands, and when
trying to land at Lahaina, March 31, the
boat capsized in a terrible storm and
President Snow was taken out of the water


apparently dead, but was miraculously
restored to life by his brethren inflating
his lungs with their own breath and his life
was again restored.
His success as a financier in Brigham
city is well known and he established
many prosperous home industries in that
locality. 
When the Edmund’s law was enforced
Apostle Snow was one who was sentenced
under the principle of segregation. His
case was tried before the Supreme Court of
the United States, and after serving eleven
months in the penitentiary he was released
by a decision of said court. His fortitude
and heroism during this long term of
imprisonment for conscience sake won for
him the highest respect from the officers of
the law.
On the demise of President Wilford
Woodruff, Lorenzo Snow, then President
of the Quorum of the Apostles, became by
right of succession, President of the
Church, and was officially elected on
September 13, 1898. At the dedication of
the Temple, April 6, 1893, Apostle Snow
was made President of the Temple, which
position he held at the time of his demise.
His life has been full of noble work well
and faithfully performed. He was posses-
sed of superior executive ability and enter-
prise in whatever pursuit he took part, and
his advice in business matters was con-
sidered wise and his judgment sound.
President Snow was a man of fine intel-
lectuality, a vigorous writer, a student of
classical literature all his life, fond of read-
ing and passionately fond of music of the
best quality, a patron of the fine arts and
altogether a man of culture and refinement
in its highest and best sense.
His labors among the people since he
became President of the Church have been
incessant and arduous for a man of his
years, but he had wonderful vitality and
powers of endurance almost beyond a pos-
sibility of believing.

FUNERAL IN TABERNACLE.
The catafalque, upon which rested the
white casket containing the mortal remains
of the venerable departed leader of Israel,
was veritably embedded in rare flowers
whose fragrance was wafted throughout the
big auditorium. The west end of the vast
building had been transformed into a
regular bower of blossoms, palms and
foliage. White and green was the prevail-
ing effect from the silver-mounted casket
down in front of the stand to the draperies
which hung in artistic festoons from the
gilded pipes of the great organ. The first
four pillars which support the galleries on
either side of the building at the west end
were covered with white draperies around
which were entwined ropes of ivy and
sprigs of autumn leaves. The galleries
above were also draped in similiar effects
relieved by cord tassels and white rosettes.
At the back, towering above the choir, was
the life-sized oil portrait of the departed
President. Immediately beneath the por-
trait was the tribute of the Temple
workers, a reproduction of the Salt Lake
Temple in white and purple everlasting
flowers upon a solid background of deep
green ivy leaves At the right hand, fac-
ing the catafalque, stood the floral design,
the token of the Quorum of Apostles, at the
left the piece offered by the Deseret Sunday
School Union. The first consisted of an
arc nearly five feet in height wrought in
white everlasting flowers and relieved by
twelve stars of pink carnations with a
cream rosebud in the center. Within this
stood a Corinthian pillar in white ever-
lasting flowers with cream colored rosebuds,
fern leaves and a knot of white crepe. On
either side stood one broken column en-
twined with smilax and white carnations,
the whole upon a base of astors, chrysan-
themums and roses, surmounted with a
white dove with wings outstretched. The
Deseret Sunday School Union tribute was
a beehive upon a background of ivy leaves,
the hive—yellow astors and chrysanthe-
mums. The other floral designs were
numerous and elaborate—a scroll in pink
and white roses, dahlias, carnations and
other choice flowers. In the center of the
scroll appeared the purple letters which
read, “As God is Man May Be.” Adja-
cent a lyre of artistic design in different
kinds of flowers from Zion’s Saving Bank
and Trust Company.
The Z. C. M. I. gave a half-moon cres-
cent and a star standing upon an easel in
fern leaves and smilax. A floral anchor
with a crown in the center and a white
dove surmounting the easel, the Latter-day
Saints’ University; a double armfull of per-
fect American Beauty roses represented
the sorrow of the First Seven Presidents of
Seventies.
Other pieces, greatly admired, were an
elaborate lyre from the Elks of Salt Lake;
bouquet on easel, Utah Light and Power
company; basket, Salt Lake Primary
Association; spray of roses, from John W.
Young of New York; spray of roses from
the General Relief Society; design in
chrysanthemums, from R. E. Evans and
wife; horseshoe of roses and ivy from the
General Board of the Y. M. M. I. A.; a
wreath from the General Board of the
Primary Association; harp with the design
“Father,” from the family; bouquet of
roses from Governor Wells and wife; piece
in pink and white roses, carnations,
dahlias and chrysanthemums, with sheaves
of wheat from, the Priesthood and Sunday
Schools of Weber Stake, and dozens of
smaller pieces and simple bouquets.
The funeral services were presided over
by President Joseph F. Smith, who
announced the opening hymn, “O, my
Father,” written by President Snow’s sis-
ter, Eliza R. Snow. It was exquisitely
rendered by the choir. Prayer was offered
by Apostle M. W. Merrill, and the hymn
following was, “Zion Stands with hills
surrounded.”
Apostle Brigham Young was the first
speaker. His address was eloquent and
sympathetic, and he closed with the
remark, “Of all things that are in my
heart, I desire most to stand in the presence
of the servants of God who have gone be-
fore and to be worthy of their plaudits.”
The second speaker was Apostle John
Henry Smith, who also spoke with great
tenderness of the late President and in the
course of his remarks related the following
incident.
“On a recent visit to the city of
Washington I was the bearer of a message
from President Snow to William McKinley
and that great man paid a tribute to our
departed President that I never shall for-
get. President McKinley received the
message with much manifest pleasure and
said to me that he had met President Snow
in Ohio when they were both young men
and had talked with him. He then said to
me: ‘Upon your return to Salt Lake City
I want you to give my best wishes to
President Snow and tell him that I have
much respect and esteem for him as a man
devoted to the interests of his fellow men.
I think he is a good man and lives a God
fearing, true life.’ It was a beautiful
tribute from a great man.”
After Apostle J. H. Smith’s address
the choir sang, with intense feeling, one of
President Snow’s favorite hymns, “Who
are these arrayed in white?”
Apostle John W. Taylor was the next
speaker. He like his brothers who pre-
ceded him, alluded to President Snow’s
spiritual characteristics, and read some
passages from the Pearl of Great Price, and
a revelation given to the Prophet Joseph
Smith on the subject of the priesthood and
some other passages in the Book of Doctrine
and Covenants, and concluded by testifying
of the immortality of man, and that Joseph
Smith was a prophet of God.
The anthem, “Shall We Meet Beyond
the River,” was beautifully sung by the
Temple choir, and President Rudger
Clawson paid a glowing tribute to Presi-
dent Snow’s life and labors. He referred
in his remarks to the Apostles who had
been associated with President Snow and
said how many had gone behind the vail
in the last fifty years. He spoke with
tenderness indicative of deep emotion, and
closed with these words:
“I am interested in the family of Presi-
dent Snow and in their great bereavement
I offer my sympathy. I pray God to help
them and encourage them that they may
have peace and consolation. I pray God
that they may emulate the example of their
father and be strong and brave and firm as
he was. I pray that God will help them
now that they may recognize his hand
and say ‘Thy will, not ours, be done.’ ”
President Joseph F. Smith said that
because of the limited time he would not
attempt to speak, only to say that Presi-
dent Snow was the last of the Apostles of
mature years and who were acquainted
with the Prophet Joseph Smith. “With
the exception of the Prophet Joseph
Smith,” continued the speaker, “I don’t
believe any man ever stood upon this earth
who bore a stronger, more clear cut testi-
mony of Jesus Christ.” President Smith
said that he knew the Prophet Joseph
Smith and he knew he was a Prophet of
God. He bore the same testimony in
relation to Brigham Young, John Tayor,
Wilford Woodruff and Lorenzo Snow.
“You have seen what President Snow has
accomplished but there are some things he
accomplished that you will know nothing
about only through prayer and devotion to
Christ.” President Smith declared to the
family of President Snow that their father
was not deceived and enjoined them to
follow in his footsteps and be true to their
last breath to the cause of Zion
The Tabernacle choir sang the hymn,
“Glory to God on High,” and the bene-
diction was pronounced by Bishop John R.
Winder.
Every arrangement had been carefully
made for those who were to march in the
procession to the depot.
The funeral train was headed by Chief
Hilton and a platoon of police, then Major
Young and Bishop Empey, and Held’s
band came next playing a funeral march;
then came President Smith and Apostle
Young, the men who carried the floral
otterings marched in front of the Apostles,


[Column 1]
also the young ladies, representing the
Sunday School and Y. L. M. I. A., with
some of the flowers. After the casket,
borne by Apostles, relieved by sons of the
late President, came the members of the
family, the presiding Bishopric, wives of
the General Authorities, presidents of
of Stakes and missions. Bishopric of the
Eighteenth Ward, in which President
Snow resided, general boards of the Deseret
Sunday School Union, Relief Society,
Y. M. M. I. A., Y. L. M. I. A., Primary
Association, Church schools and religion
classes. Then came the business directors
of the Z. C, M. I., Zion’s Savings Bank
and Trust Company, Utah Eight and
Power Company, Salt Lake and Los
Angeles Ry. Company, Saltair Beach
Company, Grass Creek Coal Company and
the general public.
	There was a great concourse of people at
the depot to see the train leave and con-
trary to past experience on such occasions,
there was no delay. The casket was
placed in the rear car and those who held
tickets promptly boarded the train.
	The funeral train was composed of seven
cars and the journey to Brigham City was
the shortest time on record. As the cars
sped past town and village groups of peo-
ple could be seen on either side of the
track. The coach containing the casket
was modestly decorated with wreaths
of flowers in the windows and festoons of
smilax and ferns arranged about the
interior.
	About 750 people were on the train in-
cluding all the leading authorities of the
Church, Governor Wells, and other
prominent citizens. There was but one
stop made on the trip, and that was five
minutes at Ogden where the train was met
by the Sunday School children of the city.
	At three o’clock the train reached Brig-
ham City, the city which President Snow
had founded and where he had spent the
most active years of his life. The recep-
tion there was altogether worthy. In
response to the request of the committee
the citizens of Brigham City and Box Elder
county were at the depot with over one
hundred teams to convey the Salt Lake
contingent to the cemetery. The line of
carriages extended over one mile. Such a
funeral Brigham City never witnessed be-
fore in all her history and no doubt it is
stamped indelibly upon the memories of
her citizens who saw it.
	As the procession moved to the ceme-
tery the band played “General Sherman’s
Funeral March,” Beethoven’s “Funeral
March,” and “Dolores.” The line of
march was east on Forest Street to Main,
south to Third South and east to the
cemetery, which is on Fourth East. The
buildings were draped in mourning and the
sidewalks were lined with people. One of
the most beautiful spectacles was the line
of Sunday School children, 1,057 of them
stationed along Main from Forest Street to
Third South.
	The hearse proceeded to the Snow burial
lot, which already contains many members
of the famiiy as indicated by the granite
shafts and marble headstones. The casket
was taken from the hearse and opened for
a brief spell to give the people of Brigham
City an opportunity to take a last view of
the beloved face. During the space the
band played “Nearer, My God, to Thee.”
The four walls of the grave were built ot
brick and lined with white broadcloth.

[Column 2]
Evergreens and flowers were strewn on the
bottom and as the coffin was being lowered
into the receptacle the Brigham City choir,
under the leadership of S. M. Lee, sang
the “Resurrection” hymn. The grave
was dedicated by Apostle George Teasdale,
and after that prayer, Apostle Clawson
arose in behalf of the family and expressed
deep thanks to the people of Box Elder
Stake for their splendid help, and all who
had a hand in laying away the beloved
President. The services at the grave
ended by the choir singing, “Shall We
Meet Beyond the River.”
	The red sandstone blocks formed the top
of the grave, and they were cemented to
the brick walls and the grave was thus
sealed. The box in which the coffin was
encased was made of polished wood with
silver screws. When the grave was heaped
with flowers and all had taken a parting
look at the sacred spot they turned their
faces towards their homes.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


D R. COLUMBUS DAY.
	The Utah State Society Daughters of
the Revolution were entertained at their
regular meeting on Wednesday Octocer 16,
1901, at the home of Mrs. Alice M. S.
Horne. Some miscellaneous business was
disposed of and in addition to the regular
exercises celebrated Columbus Day (Oct-
ober 12) appropriately by sentiments and a
paper on the discovery of America, read by
Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth, after which
Mrs. T. G. Webber gave a graphic
account of her visit to Genoa and the home
and notable places of Columbus remin-
iscences. Mrs. Webber was the only one
present who had visited these historic
scenes.
	In honor of the occasion Mrs. Horne
had decorated a Columbus room in the
most artistic manner imaginable, with a
variety of Indian relics, that reminded one
forcibly ef the early days in the valley as
well as the discovery of America. It only
needed a papoose in the baby basket and a
live Indian mother or two to complete the
picture. There were mats and blankets
galore, mocassins and other buckskin
garments elaborately fringed, and fine
ears of Indian corn in an Indian squaw
basket. The entire room and Indian
ornaments decorated with Autumn leaves
and trailing vines, over which the light of
the setting sun from the western windows
fell, making the picture sufficiently fantas-
tic for the weird fancy to conjure up wood-
land scenes with sleeping Indians, or
almost to hear the warwhoop of the
savages springing from their hiding places.
	In the absence of the regent, Mrs
Williams, the first vice-regent, Mrs
Farnsworth, presided Mrs. Ella W. Hyde
gave her paper which was exceedingly
interesting, the topic being “Important
Events of the Revolution, 1775 and 1776.”
	The refreshments served were also in
keeping with the celebration of the day,
Ice cream in globes, white and chocolate
color, imitating earth and water. Alto-
gether it was a delightful afternoon and
Mrs. Horne deserves great credit for the
artistic taste displayed in the arrangement
of the details that gave such pleasure to her
guests.


Miss Katherine E. Conway, of Boston,
has in press a novel, entitled. “Lalor’s
Maples.”


A DELIGHTFUL RECEPTION. 
	Mrs. W. W. Riter and Mrs. W. D. Riter
gave an elaborate At Home to a large
number of friends and acquaintances at the
residence of Hon. W. W. Riter and wife,
on Tuesday, October 17. The handsome
parlors were beautifully decorated with
magnificent flowers and autumn leaves in
the most artistic style imaginable. A fine
string band made sweet melody in an
adjoining room and the dining room was
garlanded in ribbons and flowers; exquisite
china, cut glass and silver sparkled and
shone as the pretty young girls handled the
tea and coffee service with the sweet-
meats, creams and candies. In the library
a cooling, delicious punch was served by
handsome young matrons, and altogether
the affair was calculated to charm and be-
wilder the lovers of social gaiety. Mrs.
W. W. Riter wore a most becoming gown
and the bride, Mrs. W. D. Riter, was
arrayed in a dainty fashion which suited
her slender figure to perfection.
	Had it really been a wedding party it
could scarcely have been more enjoyable,
except perhaps as gentlemen do add great-
ly to such entertainments, especially
weddings.
	Although it was not a wedding party, it
was in honor of a bride, and therefore,
necessarily most interesting. The guests
all seemed delightfully happy and surely
the ladies who gave so much genuine en-
joyment to their friends must be happy
in the thought, if they were a little weary
of standing and shaking hands with the
dear five hundred.


A VERY PRETTY KENSINGTON.
	Mrs. C. D. Schettler gave a very pretty
Kensington tea at her home, corner 4th and
B. Streets, on Saturday afternoon, October.
12, the Guest of Honor being her mother,
Mrs. Lydia D Alder, just recently returned
from a two years’ mission to England.
Mrs. Alder also visited Germany while
abroad, attended the International Congress
of Women held in London in 1899, and
was one of the American women enter-
tained by Her Majesty, Queen and Empress
Victoria, at St. George’s Hall, July 21,
1901. Altogether Mrs. Alder had a most
interesting and successful tour and mission
to the land of her nativity. She visited
her relatives in the beautiful little town of
Trowbridge where her parents had resided
previous to coming to America.
	Mrs. Schettler’s parlors were artistically
decorated for the occasion and the delight-
ful music of stringed instruments added
much to the enjoyment of the very large
number of assembled guests. The beauti-
ful young girls in dainty muslins and sum-
mer fabrics, with their lively conversation
mixing with young matrons and elderly
ladies was a very pleasant contrast, and
the afternoon was most enjoyable. These
social gatherings help to unite and cement
together the friendships of those whose
interests are in a way closely identified
with each other.
	Of course the delicious refreshments,
lemonade, bon bons etc., served by the
graceful young ladies, is one of the enliven-
ing features of a Kensington tea or an
afternoon party, even if chocolate is used
instead of the regulation “tea.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A PLEASANT GATHERING.
	It is always a pleasure to meet, even now
and then, old friends and new ones under
auspicious circumstances, and in delightful
homes where great hearts hold out the
hand of welcome and fellowship with kind-
ly feeling and gracious manner. Of this
nature was the afternoon At Home on
Tuesday, October 21, at the pretty cottage
on Twelfth East St., where Mrs. Anna
Sharp and her daughter, Mrs. Jeannette
Ferguson, and daughter-in-law, Mrs.
David Sharp, received their invited guests
from two to six.
	Autumn leaves tastefully arranged with
ivy and smilax, and great vases of magnifi-
cent chrysanthemums and cosmos adorned
the parlors and gave the rooms the appear-
ance of a fairy scene.
	The tables from which the guests were
served were not wanting in floral decora-
tions and superb women shone conspicu-
ausly in pouring the tea and coffee, while
young girls with modest grace served the
delicious refreshments in the happiest
manner. In the library one might refresh
herself from the punch bowl presided over
by one who knew well how to do the hon-
ors, and indeed there was nothing lacking
to attract the attention and admiration of
all who delight in these social festivities.
	Society owes much to those who bring
people together even for an hour’s enjoy-
ment in meeting with a cordial grasp of the
hand, those whose presence and friendly
feeling strengthen the ties of social life and
help to bind communities together.


[Column 1]
A BIOGRAPHY.
SARAH PRICE JONES ROBERTS. 
	I was born in May, 1828, in the Parish
of Westbury, Shropshire, England. My
father’s name was William Price, my
mother’s name was Eleanor Beedle Price. I
was the youngest but one of eight children,
three boys and five girls.
	My parents were a very honest and up-
right couple, and they always taught us to
be honest and truthful. My childhood
days were spent at home, but when I
grew older I lived with a gentleman’s fam-
ly for a while, after which I returned
home, and when eighteen years of age I
was married to William Jones in the West-
bury Church, May 1846.
	In 1849 I heard a Latter-day Saint Elder
preach and the joyful sound came to a
thankful heart. After hearing the glad,
message four times I embraced the same,
being baptized by Elder John Tibbets, and

[Column 2]
was confirmed a member of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints by Elders
John Tibbets and John James.
	I prayed to the Lord for a testimony and
if it was true to bless me with a child. He
answered by giving me a son, born July 6,
1850, but he only lived to comfort me ten
short days and then went back to the One
who gave him. We named him Handley
Jones. My husband was a good, kind hus-
band and an honorable man, and we lived
very happily together. I used to preach
the Gospel to him and tried to get him to
see as I did, but he did not want any re-
ligion and would not embrace it. I told
him I would have to leave him and go to
Utah, but he did not think I would. We
lived happily together for twenty-three
years, with the exception of religion, which
was everything to me and I left him, my
home and all my dear ones on the 26th of
July 1869, to cross the mighty deep to join
the Saints in Utah. While on the sea I
sent a letter to my husband and it almost
broke his heart, for he did not know I was
gene, and you, dear readers, can better 
imagine my feelings when writing this
letter than I can write them but the Lord
says that “he that will not leave father and
mother and all for my sake, is not worthy,
of me.” So I thought it was time for me
to make the sacrifice.
	I had a good voyage over the sea and
took the train for Ogden, which did not
come any nearer in those days in Utah.
	Brother Wm. T. Higginson met me at
the depot and took me to his home in
Bountiful, Davis Co., Utah. The 15th of
April, 1870, he with his family and myself
moved to Goshen, and there I lived with
his family until I married a widower
with four children, Brother Peter Roberts;
but the baby died leaving three chil-
dren for me to be a mother to, and I tried
to teach them to the best of my ability.
	In 1870 I joined the Relief Society in
Goshen, was a teacher for some time, then
was chosen president of the teachers and
am now a director in the Relief Society Board.
	I was teacher in the Sunday School for
many years and in 1878 the Primary was
organized and I was chosen president
thereof, Lucy Taylor and Mary Ann Price
counselors, and I held that position till
1890, when I was released, having to walk
so far, and was chosen an aid to the Stake
Presidency of Utah County. I have en-
joyed my labors in all these offices and
have tried to do my duty to the best of my
ability and the knowledge my Heavenly
Father has blessed me with.
	My father and mother died in 1861. I
left two brothers and two sisters, aunts and
uncles, besides a host of friends for the
Gospel’s sake but have never regretted it.
My husband and myself have done a great
deal of work in the Temple for our dead
relatives and friends and have felt to re-
joice in doing so, for it is a grand work and
we always feel happy in working for the
redemption of the living and the dead, and I
never tire in bearing my testimony to the
truth of the Gospel, and I hope to be ever
true and faithful, for I love the Gospel bet-
ter than my life and desire to do all the
good I possibly can while I live here upon
the earth.


We have not failed until we cease
trying.


[Column 1]
OBITUARIES.
ALICE R. CUNHA.
	Alice R. Cunha was born December 23rd, 1866,
in Richfield, Sevier Co., Utah. Died September
4, 1901, at Castle Dale, Emery County, Utah.
Was first counselor of the Relief Society of Castle
Dale.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, it has pleased our Heavenly Father
to remove our dear sister and take her to a higher
sphere, therefore be it
	Resolved, That we mourn her loss as a faithful
worker in the cause of truth and that we desire to
emulate her earnest labors; and be it
	Resolved, That we tender our sympathy to the
bereaved husband and daughter, and pray our.
Heavenly Father to let the comforting influence of
His Holy Spirit rest down upon them, that they
may realize that she has only gone before and is
enjoying the rest of the faithful and will come
forth to a glorious immortality and eternal life.
And be it
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
placed on our record, one sent to the bereaved
family and one to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for
publication.
				SARAH S. LARSEN, Sec.
BETSY MASON BROWER.
	Sister Betsy Mason Brower died July 29, 1901,
in Lewiston, Utah, at the home of her daughter,
Sister E. C. Van Orden, after a severe and lin-
gering illness caused by cancer. The deceased
was aged 74 years and 7 months. She was born
in Birmingham, England, in 1826, and embraced
the Gospel in the land of her birth in 1853, emi-
grating to Utah in 1854, sailing on the ship,
Windermere. She was called to the office of
secretary during the first year of the organization
of the Richmond branch of the Relief Society in
the year 1864, acting from that time until 1889,
Nine years of that time she labored as counselor.
From that time on she labored as teacher, until
within four years of her demise.
	She was beloved by her associates for her integ-
rity, her love of right and her love of truth and
her staunch faith in the Gospel of Christ. She
was a friend to the poor and a wise counselor in
her home and we recognize in the death of our
beloved sister the loss of a faithful and energetic
worker, a faithful mother to her family, having a

[Column 2]
determination to educate them in adverse circum-
stances.
	And we highly esteem her faithful and untiring
labors and devotion to the interests of Zion
worthy of imitation by her children and friends.
	The Relief Society of Richmond showed their
very high esteem for Sister Brower by the presen-
tation of a beautiful anchor of white roses. These
were buried with dear “Aunt Betsy,” as she was
known by all. In return for which the children
and friends return their sincere thanks. 
							E. C. V.
	Lewiston, Utah, Oct. 2, 1901.
ANN HOLT.
	Ann Holt, the subject of this sketch, was born
August 3, 1826, in Dorsetshire, England. Her
parent’s names were Thomas Harrison and Har-
riet Flann. She was baptized into the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints August 15, 1849,
by Elder Job Daley.
	In connection with her husband, Mathew Holt,
(who died in May last) a son and daughter, she
left her native country for the land of Zion in
1863, arriving in Salt Lake City, October 4, of the
same year. Here she was met by James and
Maria Oliver, with whom the following day she
went to South Jordan, Salt Lake Co., Utah,
where she made her home until the day of her
death, September 25, 1901. She was the only
one of her father’s family who feared God more
than mammon and had the stamina to accept the
Gospel.
	Before emigrating she assisted the Elders in
their singing upon the street corners and else-
where and because of her connection with the
Church and bold defence of the same she received
the scoffs and scorns of the world. Many times
have stones, rotten eggs, etc. been hurled at her,
yet she did not waver.
	After arriving in the valleys of the mountains
she continued to serve her God and succeeded in
driving mammon farther fram her each year of
her life.
	At the time of the organization of the Relief
Society of South Jordan in 1869, she was chosen
as its first president, which position she held until
her death, thirty-two years.
	She was kind, gentle and loving to such a great
extent that she demanded the love and respect of
all who knew her.
	She was wise in counsel, which was sought by
all, both male and female. Those who have ac-
cepted it never failed in being greatly benefited.
	She has been a queen among her own sex, a
mother to the orphans, a peace maker unto the
peace breakers, a comforter unto the downcast
and a blessing unto the world.
	She sought not honor, nor glory of man or the
riches of this earth. Her eyes were ever heaven-
ward, her ears ever open to the whisperings of
the Spirit of God, her arms ever outstretched to
relieve the sick and afflicted and her feet always
in that straight and narrow way.
	After 75 years in this sinful world she has passed
to the great beyond, a ruler in God’s Kingdom
and a savior upon Mount Zion, leaving a numer-
ous posterity and hosts of friends to mourn her
loss.
	Peace be to her ashes and God grant her a full
exaltation which she has so faithfully earned.
									A. M.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WALKS AROUND CANTERBURY.
	What a history this city has! Once a
Roman stronghold, fortified with a wall all
around it, portions of which are still stand-
ing. Also some of the sentinel’s posts,
where are apertures for their guns, and
where in those days a stern voice called,
“Who goes there?” Slowly but surely
they are crumbling to decay, but now are
monuments to their builders, who long ago
returned to dust from whence they came.
Of late years the municipality of Canter-
bury have taken great care of all these
relics, which ivy-grown, with rustic seats
within them, woo’s one’s fancy and imagin-
ation.
THE DANE JOHN.
	Following the line of the city wall, the ter-
race which bounds the castle market is full
in view, being considerably raised. Cross-
ing the bridge we reach the old Riding
Gate, outside of which was the meeting
point of three Roman Roads. One leads to
Rickborough, one (now the stone street) to
Lympne, the other was the Watling Street,
leading one way to Dover, the other to
London and Chester.
	The street inside the gate is called the
Watling street, but at this point Roman
Canterbury had been destroyed, that the
true line of the street was lost, but was dis-
covered when the excavations for drainage
revealed the foundations of the Roman
houses in the middle of the present road.
	The true line of the street, however, is
given in its western continuation, the Lane,
which leads to the original place of crossing
the river.
	The Riding Gate, constructed of Roman
brick, has disappeared. It seems that this
part of the city wall was the end of the
Roman fortifications. The part of this wall
is well preserved, and forms the outside
embankment of the bridge. Looking over
its side we see the old moat, converted at
this point into a vegetable garden, and far-
ther on to a cattle market. The offices of
the dealers have been made underground,
facing out on the street, and on the ground
level of the old moat, the bridge being
above over which thousands pass daily.
Strange feelings fill the heart of the be-
holder. So many hundreds of years ago
citizens and soldiers of ancient Rome lived
their lives here, died and were buried; not
only here, but in other cities of England.
In the old capital city of Winchester, when
excavating for water mains a number of
years ago, in one of the streets a man and
a woman were unearthed apparently in an
excellent state of preservation, but vanish-
ing from sight as soon as the air touched
them. They had coins in their hands of
the time of Julius Ceasar, of the date 60
years B. C. This was the money to pay
the ferryman to row them across the river.
Of course the remains were immediately
sent to the British Musuem.
	Passing the bridge before mentioned, we
enter the grounds know as the Dane John.
This from time immemorial has been open

[Column 2]
ground for the amusement of the citizens.
It was laid out and planted in the early
part of this century by one of the city’s
aldermen, whose munificence and public
spirit is commemorated by the obelisk on
the mound, which cone shaped, rises to a
great heihgt.
	This mound is a puzzle to antiquarians;
however old the walls may be the mound is
certainly older, for at this point the wall
bends so as to admit of the mound being
included. Formerly two others were out-
side of this wall. Its present shape is
most usual, but originally it was of the
ordinary bell shape, lower and larger in
circumference. The ground being taken
from the outside and placed at the top, has
produced the present conical shape. It is
also a puzzle to account for its name which
appears in various forms, Dangon, Dangen,
Demgoen and Dungal in the different per-
iods of its history.
	Some think that Dane John is the true
form and that the mound is Danish earth-
work, but it really seems of earlier date
than the Danish invasion, yet it might
have been a monument of some of their
victories, as history tells us of the death of
a certain Danish king somewhere in this
locality. An old cannon is preserved in
the park at the foot of the mound, said to
have once belonged to the Danes.
	A winding walk around the sides of the
mound by gradual ascent reaches the
monument on top which gives the names
and history pertaining to the surrounding
park and of those who gave the same to
the city.
	The view from this point is delightful.
The gardens, with flowers, shrubbery,
trees and walks below, look in miniature
from this height, as also the old cannon,
which appears as a toy. The Banacks, the
Orphanage for minister’s children, the cas-
tle ruins and the monument erected by the
citizens for the forty one Kentish martyrs,
who were burned at the stake in the reign
of Queen Mary, because they belonged to
the Reformed Church, are all plainly dis-
cernible.
	Up here the wind is blowing almost a
gale, it is like a veritable March day. Still
it is invigorating, and the company laugh
merrily as we hold on to the fence until
each gust has spent itself.
	This is a popular Lovers Walk on sum-
mer moonlight nights, such walks must be
ideal indeed. The grassy sides of the Dane
John look like velvet. Peace and quiet
reign here; it is a secluded retreat where
the pulse of the busy city below is not felt.
	Down in the park seats are scattered
around, inviting repose and relaxation.
Lovers choose a romantic walk when they
ascend the Dane John. Like their aspir-
ations, it is far above the world’s tumult,
almost in realms of bliss; but the path that
ascends also descends, and they must
awaken on common terra firma again. If
their fairy castles are as high as the Dane
John, no wonder they have so many sad
falls. Of course one is nearer the moon and

[Column 3]
stars, the far away and unttainable, which
may account for the sweet dreams of youth
which never fulfilled are always eluding
the hand that tries to imprison them, even
until the day of life is past and the night
falls.
	Still the world would be dull without
them, so youth dream on. The spot, the
hour is enchanted; neither moon nor stars
ever tell tales. This beauty will disappear
when the garish sun has arisen.
	How strange! This formerly a part of
the great Roman Empire. The wall is
high and strong, no doubt they thought it
impregnable, with the moat and draw-
bridges. Though so strongly fortified her
power was broken and strangers pulled
down the walls.
			(Continued.)


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
	much as possible for you money.					TRY US.

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank n Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
		LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

The Most Convenient Local Train Service
in the State is given by the . . . . .
Oregon Short Line
	Railroad
FIVE Fast Daily Trains Each Way between
Salt Lake City and Ogden . . . , . .

Se that your tickets read via the
	“SHORT LINE”
			And Get the bes

CITY TICKET OFFICE for tickets to all points, 100 West
	Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.

S. W. Eccles,		D. E. Burley,
	Gen Tfc. Mgr.		G. P. & T. A


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation

Vol. 30	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1901.	No. 7


CONTENTS.

Aunt Zina’s Last Words and Testament......
............................... Elnora Wight 49
Loving Appreciation.....Zina Young Card 50
South Western States Mission....M. Budge 50
Walks Around Canterbury... Lydia D. Alder 51
General R. S. Conference.........E. B. Wells 54

EDITORIAT—Special Conference................. 52
The Hawaiian Queen...................... 52
Wedding and Celebration................. 52
Editorial Notes......................... 53
Official Notice......................... 54

POETRY—A Token.... Augusta J. Crocheron 49 
Hush.............Mrs.Ormston Chant 51


A TOKEN.

A warm, loving palm on my cheek as I dreamed,
A kiss and a breath like the touch of a rose,
And voice, that the sweetest of melody deemed;
Responsive in gladness, my eyelids unclosed—
Ah ! I’d been dreaming! All of it gone—
Far away, years away—here and then gone.

The babe that I thought still lay here on my heart,
Out in the great world, still mine, but a man—
Teardrop and smile and a heavy pain start,
All three together. Explain if you can,
All their strange harmony; tell me who can.

Why, over mountains and rivers and years,
Desolate landscape and senses grown numb,
Mountains of trials and darkness of fears,
Like lightning o'er silence, such moment should
	come?
Like lightning through darkness, such moment 
should come!

I, who take pride in their statue and strength,
(As once in their dimpled and fresh infancy)
To drop from remembrance the years’ weary
	length
And down in my dreamstheir young mother to be,
Deep down in my dreams their glad mother to be.
Had I forgotten through all waking hours
In fancy’s pictures of daughters and sons?
(Mothers ye know the best treasures of ours—
Tresses and mem’ries of our little ones,)
Hath life held sweeter than our little ones?
I, to dream such, when my hair has grown white,
And they each have missions in life to fulfill ?
But—the mother’s heart, like the north star’s
light,
E’er beckons their course to the Father’s will,
That right of her soul from Divinity,
Will still hold its claim through eternity,

When thou gavest them first to my trembling em-
	brace,
They were fresh from Thy keeping and pure in
	Thy sight;
From conflict and tempter, Thy power and grace
Can strengthen, deliver and lead them aright;
And my heart, as the years grow, its watch care
	will keep;
As the years pass, Thy tokens and promise shall
	keep.
’Twas Thy spirit of love, O, my Father, that sent
The vision of bliss after all that had passed.
Thou hast not forgotten me, I am content;
Thou hast wakened again all my spirit at last,
I shall hold them again, near my heart at last.

After life’s work is done, and its last dream,
I shall waken in gladness and find it all truth,
The grace of blest motherhood o’er me shall beam,
And the bright bow of promise o’er cradle and
youth,
Mine—by that token that came in my sleep—
The kiss of my baby, that waked me from sleep.
				AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
	Erda, August 6, 1901.


AUNT ZINA'S LAST WORDS AND
TESTAMENT.
	Knowing the deep love and true appre-
ciation of the sisters for our departed
President, we send to you the last words
and loving counsel given us by her during
her stay in Cardston, the months of July
and August.
	It was prophesied upon her head four
years ago that she would come and visit
us again, and it seemed her every word
and act was given for our comfort and
guidance while she remained with us. Her
son, Elder Chariton Jacobs, in visiting
with us this summer, bore this glowing
testimony and tribute to his beloved
mother. He said:
	“I am now fifty-four years old and never
in my life heard my mother say a word
against any one, or never heard her say
aught against the Holy Priesthood, and
never did she utter one word of complaint.”
	During her visit three meetings were
held that she attended, one at the Relief
Society Hall and two at her daughter’s
home, as she seemed almost too feeble to
attend them at a distance. No one who
attended these glorious meetings can ever
forget the heavenly and soul-inspiring
words and angelic face of the most beloved
and Saint-like Mother in Zion.
	The Relief Society met in the Relief
Society hall, President Sarah B. Daines
presiding. After the usual exercises and a
few testimonies borne, also a beautiful
song entitled ‘‘A Friend So True,” sung
by a sister, our President, Zina D. H.
Young, addressed the meeting, speaking of
the labors of the Prophet Joseph Smith and
the organization of the first Relief Society.
“I well remember the few members at that
time, and compare them to the great num-
bers enrolled in the Relief Society today. I
well remember the noble and majestic look
of the Prophet Joseph when he rose and
spoke. I see how his words have been
fulfilled and the way opened for the suc-
cess and advancement of woman.” Men-
tioned many important positions filled by
women today, that could not have been
filled in that day. Spoke of the humble
positions of wives, mothers, Relief Society
teachers and members, and the great good
accomplished by their united efforts and
willingness to serve the Lord and help
to bring that reign of peace on earth to
which we all look forward. Spoke on the
principle of celestial marriage, had re-
joiced in that sacred and holy principle.
Spoke of the union existing in the family
of President Young. Said that without
the Spirit of God all are in danger.
Women are blest who have husbands that
seek to serve the Lord. It is a privilege
to live in this generation. May God
help us in our labors of love. May He
strengthen us in body and in mind, that
we may be enabled to raise our children in
peace, love and joy, and perform our
labors in a pleasant way. May we all live
to claim the blessings of God. 
	Sister Card spoke briefly and exercised
the gift of tongues and dear Aunt Zina

[Column 2]
gave the interpretation, but feeling she did
not have it quite clear, humbly knelt by
her chair and quietly offered a few words
of prayer, then arising gave the interpre-
tation fully and beautifully, to the blessing
and comfort of all.

SECOND MEETING.
	On August 1, the Relief Society met at
Sister Card’s. Meeting convened with
sixty-four members present, President
Sarah B. Daines presiding.
	After the opening exercises and program
Sister Young addressed the meeting. She
said she loved the testimony meetings,
loved to hear the voices of the sisters and
to see the Spirit of God beaming on their
faces. “What a privilege it is to live in
this dispensation ! We should meet to-
gether often and speak one to another.
The Saints will receive great blessings
through the word of the testimony and the
power of the anointing.” She then gave
a description of the Kirtland Temple and
the many glorious meetings held there.
She was present when the Spirit of God was
felt like a mighty rushing wind. Explained
how large curtains were drawn that all
might have the privilege of bearing their
testimonies. Exhorted the sisters not to
find fault with the Priesthood or with one 
another, do not harbor a fault finding
spirit, it is not of God. Said: “In looking
back over my own life I cannot remember
of ever finding fault with those who were
called to preside over me. Do not harbor
an ill feeling toward any one, nor let envy
crowd love from your hearts. Those who
do this are trampling the beautiful flowers
and blossoms under their feet. Spoke of
the poverty and hard times endured by the
Saints in the past, hoped they would never
return. “Dear sisters, call often upon the
Lord, and a request I would make of you
all is to never find fault.”

THIRD MEETING.
	August 15th the Relief Society again
convened at the home of Sister Card, Presi-
dent Sarah B. Daines presiding.
	After the usual exercises and bearing of
testimonies, Sister Young said: “My dear
sisters, what pleasure it gives me to be
engaged with you in this great and
glorious work. As time goes on each day
makes one rejoice more in the grandeur of
the principles which we believe in; the 
greatness of our blessings is beyond ex-
pression. Sisters appreciate the privilege
of bearing testimony of the goodness of
God to one another. I feel to exhort you
all to live so you can claim the Holy
Spirit to comfort you in times of trial, and
inspire you in your daily vocations of life.
It is a mother’s privilege to be inspired by
the Spirit of God in the raising of her
family. Take time to read the scriptures. 
I have taken much consolation in reading
the Book of Mormon. I have visited the
Hill Cumorah and rejoiced that I was
privileged to stand on such holy ground 
where prophets and angels have stood,
such a place of renown among the Nephites


and Lamanites." She described the hill,
and could plainly see how many could go 
upon that hill to battle. Closed by asking 
the blessing of the Lord upon all. 
Singing, "Do what is right." Benedic-
tion by Zina Y. Card, 
ELNORA WIGHT, Sec.


50								WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LOVING APPRECIATION. 
My Beloved Sisters:
Our "Mother" is at rest, and while the
void her sweet presence filled still yearns
for
“The touch of a vanished hand
And the sound of a voice that is still ”
we will try to prove our devotion to her
sacred memory by living our most holy
religion as she would have us.
I recall the many acts of kindness
bestowed upon me while there with you,
and take this occasion to express my grati-
tude and love to all my kindred and friends
who remembered us as a family and myself
as an individual, who was there without
husband or children. God bless and com-
fort all, is the prayer of your grateful 
sister. 
ZINA YOUNG CARD. 
Cardston, Canada.


[Column 1]
SOUTH WESTERN STATES MISSION.
Minutes of the St. John Relief
Society conference, held at St. John, Sep.
16, 1901.
Meeting called to order by President
Lucy Breckenridge. Singing, “The
Spirit of God.” Prayer was offered by
President James G. Duffin, of the South
Western States mission. Continued by
singing “High on the mountain top a ban-
ner is unfurled.”
Sister Breckenridge told what was being
done by the society, and said that it had
been greatly blessed. They held meetings
every week and had about forty dollars in
the treasury.
President Sarah J. Cannon, of Salt Lake,
a member of the General Board of the
Relief Society, spoke on punctuality and
encouraged the sisters to continue in the
good work. Begin meeting on time, and
do not hold meetings too long. The mem-
bers should be united and have kind words
for each other. We never gain by running
other people down. Teachers should be
urged to visit. Do good as you have oppor-
tunity. If a sister cannot meet, occasional-
ly take the meeting to that member. En-
courage the children to pay tithing,
as well as paying our own personal tithing.
Children should be taught to obey. Make
the home pleasant so the children will
want to be at home. We should thank
our Heavenly Father more than we do for
our blessings. Spoke of the Woman’s
Building that is to be built in Salt Lake
City, and said she would like to have the
name of the St. John Relief Society on the
books as having helped with the construc-
tion of it.
Sister Joanna Miller, one of our teachers
was called to give a report of the St. John
branch of the Relief Society. She felt
well, had visited as much as they were
able. Always found every one feeling well
in the Gospel. Felt better when they
visited. Felt she, in so doing, was attend-
ing more strictly to her duty. Asked
the Lord to bless us all that we might hold out faithful.

[Column 2]
President Jas. G. Duffiin read a portion
of Section 68, Doctrine and Covenants. It
is right to teach our children the things
that are being done in these days,. that
faith would grow in them. That children
should be baptized at the age of eight
years. They are subject to so many
temptations. We should train them as
they should go. Said our happiness
depends upon them, that if they should
depart from the Lord how dreadful it would
be. This should be impressed on their
minds. We should look at the good and
not the evil. Said the Relief Society is
one of the helps in government. The
society is inspired of the Lord, that His
Spirit might be strengthened. We will be
blessed both in mind and body if we are 
faithful. The Prophet Joseph Smith said
when we became fault-finding, it grieved
the Spirit of the Lord, and He would draw
His Spirit from us, and we should be left
in darkness. We must avoid this. Some
will find fault because the Elders would
talk a little too long. In so doing we
would not be doing right. Said we
should support our officers, also spoke of
the Woman’s Building.
Sister Annie Taylor Hyde, of Salt Lake
City, read an article from the EXPONENT, 
an address written by President Lorenzo
Snow, and read by his son at the exer-
cises given by the Relief Society at Saltair.
Spoke of the Woman’s Building, of raising
the money to give to help erect it, of the
different amounts given. That it is the
little mites the poor give that seem to make
the greater amounts. Explained the
different parts of the building. Spoke of
the education of the children, and of the 
schools in Zion. We could dispel prejudice
by explaining our views to those who are
ignorant. Alluded to marriage, that young
people in these days seem to be living for
enjoyment and not trying to keep God’s
commandments. Referred to the joy de-
rived from doing our duty.
Elder J. M. White said it was a pleasure
to speak to us awhile. That he had not
been interested in Relief Society work in
the past. He was now leaving the mission
field. Thanked all who had been so kind
to him and endorsed all that had been
said.
Closed by singing “Now, let us rejoice.”
Prayer by Elder Joshua Gardner. Ad-
journed until 2 o’clock p. m.
Afternoon meeting, Sister Lucy Brecken-
ridge presiding. Opened by singing “We
thank Thee, O God, For a Prophet.”
Prayer by Elder King. Continued by
singing “Redeemer of Israel.”
The first speaker said she could not give
any instructions in the Relief Society work
but bore a strong testimony of the truth-
fulness of the Gospel. Was thankful to
meet in the St. John conference. Had
enjoyed her labors, knew if she would put
her trust in the Lord all must be well.
Each one must do good for herself. Was
pleased to see us united and was pleased to
see the girls were taking part in the society.
Elder Joshua Gardner had never been
called to speak in a Relief Society meeting
before, but knew if we are led by the
Spirit of the Lord good will be done. Spoke
of his mother, said she was a worker in
the Relief Society, he gained some
knowledge from her. Spoke of the opin-
ion the world had of the sisters of the
Latter-day Saints. Hoped they would
learn of some of the work of the Relief

[Column 3]
Society. Spoke of the young lady mission-
aries, prayed the Lord would bless the
sisters of the society, said they are work-
ing for both temporal and spiritual affairs.
President Sarah J. Cannon was rejoiced
to meet with us again this afternoon.
Urged the sisters to work together, that in
so doing we could do so much more good.
It is necessary that we keep exact records.
We should let our light shine and work to
earn a reward. Was pleased so many kept
the Word of Wisdom. It is important
that we train our children right. We
must watch that no misunderstandings
come between us. Mentioned the celebra-
tions on the 17th of March each year, and
the ten cent membership fee that we should
always remember on that day. We should
be charitable, try to save souls and say
kind words. We must notice the little
things of this life. Should be able to
answer questions on our religion, must
study and know something of the Gospel.
Try to be better each day. Always be
gentle and not take offence easy, but be
careful to live in love and peace. Thought
she would always feel much interested in
the sisters of St. John because she had
been with us.
Sister Amelia Badger favored us with a
very sweet song.
Sister Annie T. Hyde enjoyed the con-
ference so very much. Thought it such a
blsssing to the missionaries. It is a privi-
lege the Lord has given to all to work for
him. Spoke of the first organization of the
Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph
Smith, and said that this society is to
strengthen the work of the Lord That all
must be pure in heart to become members. 
That Emma Smith was chosen by revela-
tion as the first leader. Read a portion
from the Doctrine and Covenants, also read
some selections, and said what a grand
work we were in. Should not be gloomy
but be cheerful, should not miss our meet-
ings if it could be helped. The sisters of the
first Relief Society helped the sick and when
they were driven from their homes com-
forted and blessed them. Mentioned how
they used to do when they first went to
Utah. 
Spoke of storing grain for the poor.
That many branches of the soeiety had
their own buildings. Alluded to the
Temple work, how so many poor are helped
in this way. Spoke of the Woman’s
Exchange, of the silk industry and of the
trained nurses, how they were willing to
nurse the poor, as well as rich. How
they furnished bedding and clothing for
the poor. Spoke of the sisters administer-
ing to the sick, if we are pure we will get
what we ask for if it is for our good.
We should always praise the Lord. We
should be blessed if we kept the Word of
Wisdom, should do right ourselves and
not notice our friends. Thought it a good 
idea to read Church works in our meetings.
President Duffiin said we had a very fine
meeting. There had been given a great
many things that would be good to use for
all. Called our attention to some of the
points the sisters had given. Spoke to the
brothers and sisters, of the covenants made
before we were sent here. Gave them
good advice.
Elder J. M. White sang a song, “Mor
mon Boy.”
Meeting closed by singing “Where the:
voice of friendship’s heard. ” Benediction
by Elder O. H. Jeppson. 
MARGARET BUDGE, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT							51


HUSH.

		MRS. ORMSTON CHANT.

Hush ! The sound of a voice has gone—
    Gone from the autumn day,
The world-choir misses the note of one 
Whose hymn was hushed ere the singer won,
    Time for his noblest lay.

Hush ! and harken a while to hear
    If from the gates afar
Reaches the listening, straining ear
Heavenly welcome chanted clear
    'Twixt portals held ajar.

Hush ! ’Twas sudden, swift and straight,
    The thrust that silenced him;
He so kindly, so good, so great—
He the target of devilish hate?
    God ! how our eyes grow dim !

Hush ! In the splendor of noontide cold;
    ’Mid a nation’s heart-warmth chill;
Prone head haloed in martyr-gold—
Saint and martyr like them of old,
     ‘‘Done be the Holy Will.”

Hush ! lest our trembling branch of palm
    Rustle too loud, and break
Death’s lone silence of healing calm,
Safe on time for the Great Day psalm,
    God shall bring him awake.

Hush, oh hush ! weep soft, and pray.
    What was it laid him low ?
Who was it shed his blood that day,
Blocked the road of his blameless way ?
    Woe to the murderer, woe !

Hush, O, nation, and drink the cup
    Filled with tears to the brim ! 
God is lifting the nation up
Nearer the feast of heaven, to sup
    Joy after grief with Him.

Hush ! There was too much noise and din,
    Shouting and stress of war;
Love in the guise of a traitor’s sin
Showed her palace, and drew him in, 
Gave him shelter her courts within,
    Where the Peace Angels are. 
			   Hush !


WALKS AROUND CANTERBURY.
(Concluded.)
	The West gate well preserved still 
stands. Here as in other parts the 
sentinel's posts and apertures are to be 
seen. This gate was saved recently by the 
mayor's vote alone, the council agreeing to 
pull it down. Many rooms are here one 
called the Council chamber; and dungeons, 
where unfortunates were cast by those iron 
rulers. A broad bench made of wood, is 
the only article of furniture they contain. 
When they were tired of sitting on them 
they could have them for a bed. Dark 
prisons they were, too, no light only that 
admitted from the door. Out on the roof 
of a portion of it is a tower which ascend-
ing by means of a ladder one reaches the 
top, from whence a flag pole, with the 
Union Jack floating, is to be seen. 
The Roman city it seems did not extend 
west far beyond this arm of the stone on 
which we now gaze. It really seems that 
from West Gate between the two arms of 
the stone, was in Roman day only a march. 
Ruins of a large Roman building have 
been discovered right across the line of the 
present street, near the Fluer de lis Hotel.
This probably was the business centre of 
Roman days. Certainly in medieval times 
the Royal Exchange and mint stood there,
also the Canterbury Jewry. The Jews were
expelled in the reign of Edward I., but as 
late as the 17th century traces of their 
synagogue were to be seen. Jewry Lane 
still remains which leads into Stern Street. 
Rise and fall, progress and decay, ever 
mark the decades of man. 
From here we visit the New Museum. 
Many objects of antiquity are shown, as 
[Column 2]
well as some of more modern date. It is a 
massive new and commodious building 
with public reading rooms and free 
library attached. It was founded by the 
late Rev. Bearny, a native of Canterbury, 
to whom the citizens showed such marked 
discourtesies that he left his home, going 
to Australia where he amassed a great 
fortune which he left to his birth city, 
desiring, in the greatness of his heart, to 
benefit her and add to her riches and glory. 
A noble revenge indeed ! A large oil
painting of the Doctor hangs on one of its 
walls.
ST. NICHOLAS CHURCH.
	High up the London road this church is 
reached. Formerly it was a hospital for 
lepers. It was built in 1084 by Arch-
Bishop Lanfrance.  Two benches, heavy 
and strong, though in places worm eaten,
still remain, said to be fifty years old; they 
certainly evidence great antiquity. In the 
turret are the Canterbury bells, five hun-
dred years old. One window, old and 
quaint, but of rare design, shows in its 
varied coloring the fluer de lis of France; 
another the king and St. Nicholas, with 
the angel Gabriel on one side with a city 
in his hand, the Virgin Mary on the other, 
almost black with age. 
Here are the arch and candles; the 
Easter Tower frescoed. In front of where 
the altar was is a large, flat slab over a 
vault, bearing the name of a knight who 
died eight hundred years ago. Another 
inscription reads, "Here lyeth the body of 
M. George Short, some time minister of 
this hospital who departed this life, Nov. 
25, Anno Domini 1641, Resurgam."
Formerly the pilgrims visited this 
church on their way to Canterbury. In 
common with the other old churches a few 
years ago the walls were scraped of their 
coat of plaster, (which by order of Henry 
VIII. was put on all all the churches) thus 
revealing many figures and designs which 
no doubt were beautiful before that day. 
However they are plainly outlined and tell 
of a faded glory. 
Lepers must have been quite common in 
England in those days. The main body of 
this church is quite large, and here the un-
fortunates worshipped. The corridor on 
the right of the entrance door is where the 
priest entered, robing himself here where 
the church regalia was kept. A short 
flight of stairs once stood by the end wall
on which he mounted to preach through 
the opening, half as tall as a man, over 
their heads as they assembled below, thus 
not entering among them. 
Whether the opening was glass covered 
or not cannot be told. It is in about the 
centre of the church, that his voice could 
be heard all over it. The outline of a 
crusader on the corridor wall indicates that 
the place was visited by them.
	The old Baptismal font shows the Tudor 
rose cut out of stone on one side, and those 
of York and Lancaster entwined on the 
other. These fonts though called baptis-
mal must be understood to admit only 
of sprinkling. They are about the size 
and depth of an ordinary wash tub, but 
made of stone and as a rule are beautifully 
embellished. Stepping down from the 
chancel (which is now the part used as a 
church for the paupers whose homes are 
opposite in the houses where the lepers 
used to live) the entrance to a vault is dis-
closed It is a clear dark slab, over which

[Column 3]
a wide piece of matting is placed, which 
extends some feet down the main part of 
the church. Cut into the stone is the fol-
lowing: "Thomas Young, 1774, down to 
1818, and members of his family." This 
man was steward of the estate, also his 
family after him. 
On the opposite wall are knights in 
armor, also the Crusader's cross and the 
niche in the wall where the image of the 
Virgin Mary used to stand. The narrow 
stairs, about six inches wide, which lead to 
the belfry, are in some instances eaten 
entirely away, others being substituted, 
while some still remain, show the progress 
of decay. Up these stairs, though so 
dangerous, the caretaker must ascend every 
Friday at half past two o'clock to ring the 
old Canterbury bells, calling the paupers 
from their houses to worship at three 
o'clock. To the question, "Why do you 
not have worship on Sunday?" he said, 
"The minister has two other parishes
where he preaches on Sunday, but the 
paupers have theirs on Friday." 
To the question, "Why do they not 
have another minister, if he's so crowded?"
"O, he has to have three livings, be-
cause the farms do not yield so abundantly 
as they used to." 
The tax, one tenth of all they raise, is
demanded of the farmers to keep up the 
Church of England. 
To the question, "Why do not your 
ministers preach as Christ did, without 
purse or scrip?" an uncomprehending stare 
is the answer. 
The wooden platters and bowls exhibited 
are said to be those formerly used by the 
lepers, and the queer old well the place 
where the Black Prince used to bathe. 
The church stands high upon a knoll, a 
very pretty situation, from which the 
surroundings are very pleasing to the eye. 
So that is the row of pauper houses !
How sad to be poor, and be denied the 
word of God on the Sabbath day ! How
changed is the world, that some must be 
termed paupers, when God sends enough 
for all and Christ came that the poor should 
have the Gospel preached to them !

THE CATHEDRAL.
	Arriving early we loiter through the 
nave. The memorials on the walls and 
cenetaph of Archbishop Benson attracts 
the eye. A heavy hardwood prayer bench 
or stool about twelve feet long, elegantly 
carved, has been removed a little to one 
side. On this worshippers at this sacred 
building were wont to kneel and offer up a 
prayer for the deceased bishop, whose
beautiful monument was unveiled July, 
1899, with great pomp and ceremony by 
the Duchess of Albany, who came to 
Canterbury on a special train for the pur-
pose. As the royal party left the train rain 
began to fall, continuing until the cere-
mony was almost completed, when just at 
the juncture of the unveiling the most 
terrible thunder storm and lightning, 
accompanied by hailstones measuring many 
of them an inch and a quarter, broke over 
the city, striking terror to the hearts of the 
citizens. The old moat below the Roman 
wall was filled many feet high with water, 
also the garden which adjoins it, in a very 
few minutes. The mark is still visible on 
the trees where the water reached. Such 
a storm has never been known in the city's 
annals. The thunder was deafening and a 
large amount of glass was broken all over 
the city. LYDIA D. ALDER.


52				WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
Woman's Exponent
EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher. 
Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. 
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts. 
dvertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparie
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal di-
count to regular advertisers. 
EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday. 
Address all business communications to 
				Mrs. E. B. WELLS, 
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a 
second-class matter. 
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER, 1901.


[Column 1]
SPECIAL CONFERENCE.
RELIEF SOCIETY REORGANIZED.
	Our sisters are doubtless all aware ere
this of the reorganization of the General
Presidency of the Relief Society of the
Church. This became necessary on
account of the demise of the late beloved
President, Sister Zina D. H. Young, who
has held the position of Elect Lady for
thirteen years, having been appointed by
President Wilford Woodruff and sustained
at the April Conference in 1888, being the
third President in order since the Society
was first organized in 1842, when Sister
Emma Smith was elected President, and
afterwards Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith,
who presided for many years, having been
called by President Young before her regu-
lar appointment on June 21, 1880, by
President John Taylor.
	We now have our fourth President and
so far all have been Smiths in the succes-
sion, Emma Smith, Eliza R. S. Smith,
Zina D. H. Young Smith, and now
Bathsheba W. Smith. The three first
were wives of the Prophet Joseph Smith,
and Sister Bathsheba of his cousin, George
A. Smith. President Bathsheba W. Smith
was selected by the First Presidency and
Apostles of the Church, in Council, on
Thursday, October 31, 1901 and her
Counselors on Thursday, November 7.
They are Sisters Annie T. Hyde and Ida
Smoot Dusenberry. Sister Emmeline B.
Wells was retained as Secretary and Sister
Clarissa S. Williams chosen Treasurer.
	The General officers of the Relief Society
of the Church in their order are as follows:
	Bathsheba W. Smith, President; Annie
T.Hyde, First Counselor; Ida Smoot
Dusenberry, Second Counselor; Emmeline
B.Wells, Secretary; Clarissa Smith
Williams, Treasurer.
	It is the first occcasion on which the
officers of the Relief Society have been
voted for by the Priesthood in the order of 
Quorums. First, the First Presidency.
Second, the Apostles. Third, Patriarchs.
Fourth, Presidents of Stakes and their
Counselors and High Counselors. Fifth,
High Priests. Sixth, Seventies. Seventh,
Elders. Eighth, Bishops and their Coun-
selors. Ninth, Priests, Teachers and
Deacons (the Lower Priesthood.) Tenth,
all members of the Church, rising to their
feet and raising their right hand,
	The voting, was unanimous in the
affirmative, although in each instance

[Column 2]
successively President Joseph F. Smith,
who officiated called for the negative vote,
and if any were opposed an opportunity
was given to express it.
	It was a very grand and imposing
spectacle to witness, to see quorum after
quorum of the holy priesthood and finally
the whole congregation rise to their feet
and raise the right hand as witness that
they sustain the person or persons in the
position to which they have been called.
	The teaching and instruction given at
this Conference has been of a most impres-
sive character, and will no doubt carry an
influence that will be far-reaching and
tend to strengthen all those who are
engaged in the Latter-day work, both at
home and abroad.
	The speakers during the morning session
were President Joseph F. Smith, President
Anthon H. Lund, President Brigham
Young, Apostle John Henry Smith. The
singing, music and prayers were very
inspiring.
	The afternoon session was almost entirely
occupied with the sustaining of the
authorities of the Church and some other
important matters of business, and at its
close President Smith spoke briefly upon
the sacredness of the duty of the Priesthood
of the Son of God and blessed the people.
	The choir sang an anthem after which
President John R. Winder addressed the
congregation a short time and was followed
by President Smith, who gave some of his
ideas in regard to the obligations and
responsibilities of the First Presidency and
Apostles.
	Apostle Hyrum M. Smith made a few
remarks and the Conference was then
adjourned until next April. The choir
and congregation joined in singing “We
thank.Thee, O God. for a Prophet,” and
the benediction was pronounced by Apostle
A. O. Woodruff.


[Column 1]
THE HAWAIIAN QUEEN.
	The visit to this city of Queen Liliouka-
lani has created considerable interest among
the people, who are, at least a number of
them, well acquainted with Her Majesty and
even though she is not now a sovereign
queen, she is in herself, as President Joseph
F. Smith fittingly remarked in his address at
the reception given in her honor, a queen
among her people and as such they honor
and regard her.
	The Queen has ever been friendly to our
people and we have taken a great interest in
everything connected with her affairs. The
late President George Q. Cannon had a great,
admiration for Her Majesty Lilioukalani, as
also has our present President of the Church,
Joseph F. Smith.
	She is a woman of superior gifts and
accomplishments, fond of music, poetry and
the fine arts and has composed some very
sweet songs and verses. She speaks Eng-
lish remarkably well and her literary attain-
ments have made her conversant with many
languages and the history of many countries.
Her Majesty is remarkably well preserved
and her quiet and dignified manner suits well
the rank in which she was born.
	The reception given at the Bee Hive by a
special committee of which the Hon. Abra-
ham Fernandez was the chairman, was a
brilliant success. The affair was well man-
aged and the spacious parlors of the historic
Bee Hive House were once again made
historically popular by welcoming a queen to
the ever memorable home of Brigham

[Column 2]
Young. In this fact there is a fulfillment of
prophecy, which we ought to remember and
recognize. That “the queens of the earth
should come to Zion,” etc.
	The program opened in the parlors of the
Bee Hive with an address of welcome by
President Joseph F. Smith in which he told
of his first mission to the islands and spoke
most feelingly of the kindness and hospitality
shown him by that generous people and
especially the former queen, since deceased,
who was truly a foster mother to him in his
youth and inexperience while he was study-
ing the language, and indeed throughout his
sojourn in that, far-off land.
	Most of the musical exercises were by the
Hawaiians, who are very fond of this high
art, and the son and daughter of Brother and
Sister Fernandez did much to contribute to
the musical program. Miss Lulu Gates
sang a little Hawaiian song in the native
language which she had once sung when a
child on the islands for the former queen.
	Brother and Sister Gates were at the time
on a mission to the Sandwich Islands.
	Queen Lilioukalani was assisted in receiv-
ing by President Joseph F. Smith and Elder
Henry P. Richards, who stood at her left
hand, and Mrs. Fernandez. The Hon.
Abraham Fernandez made the introductions
in a very happy manner, as each one cor-
dially greeted and gave her welcome, and.
the matter of presentation to Her Majesty
was very happily accomplished, though per-
haps somewhat informal.
	The Queen was most gracious to all who
were presented and with an affability that
betokened rank and dignity. After the
musical part of the program was over the
Hon. Abraham Fernandez responded in be-
half of the Queen in a very happy manner
and the company in greeting each other and
certainly the occasion was proud and hap-
py one, a very delightful entertainment. The
committee are to be congratulated on the
success of their hurried arrangements.


WEDDING AND RECEPTION.
	The pretty wedding celebrated and
reception given, October 29, 1901, at the
residence of Hon. Spencer Clawson, at the
old homestead of the late Mrs. Clara D.
Young, where he now resides, was a very
pleasant and enjoyable affair, and the his-
toric house was one of the attractions to
the writer. Houses and places are in a way
effective. Say what you will, one cannot
get away from the fact that where the old
friends have often met the memories come
back to us, and fill our souls with a
melancholy sweetness.
	The marriage ceremony which united
Miss Claire Clawson and Dr. Chauncey F.
Benedict was solemnized by Bishop O. F.
Whitney in the presence of the nearest
relatives and friends of the happy pair, at
7 p. m., other invited guests arriving after-
wards. The bride was handsomely attired
and so were the bridesmaids. The dec-
orations were in the very best taste, the
colors sage green and red prevailing
throughout. The presents were numerous
and beautiful, and the refreshments all that
could be desired. As our little paper does
not deal with society, we are not expected
to give details, but as Claire is one of our
dear home girls we must say a word or
two about her marriage and wish the bride
and bridegroom great and true happiness.
May the sunshine of prosperity and con-
tentment abide in the home, and in all the


years to come may her experiences be only
such as shall help to make her wise and
helpful in her own home and in her day
and generation.

“Are we not one? Are we not joined by heaven
Each interwoven with the other’s fate?
Are we not mix’d like streams of meeting rivers.
Whose blended waters are no more distinguished,
But roll into the sea one common flood?”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.
	On Saturday afternoon, November 9,
Mrs. Jacob Bamberger gave a delightful
“At Home” to her dear five hundred
friends. Mrs. Bamberger’s hospitality is
so genuine, and her entertainments so
enjoyable, that one would never miss
going who had ever received her warm
welcome and cordial greeting. She is a
great favorite in society and knows just
how to make the people happy whom she
invites to her home. Her rooms were
elaborately decorated, though in excellent
taste, and the refreshments were choice and
daintily served and the music added great-
ly to the festivities of the afternoon.
	The Thanksgiving Proclamation by the
President of the United States and by the
Governor of our own State were duly issued,
and doubtless were happily conformed to by
the people in the good old fashioned way of
feasting and making merry; and let us hope
also that there was real and true thanksgiv-
ing to our Father in heaven for the peace
and prosperity our land is blest with, and 
while rejoicing in the abundance vouchsafed
on the year that is past, forget not to pray
for the future safety and tranquility of
our homes, and this fair land of liberty, the
asylum for the oppressed of peoples in
all lands.
	There has been some official visits paid to
conferences of the Relief Society Stake
organizations during the past few weeks,
Morgan, Beaver, Tooele, Parowan, Granite,
Jordan, Logan, North Sanpete, and also
Bingham. The sisters who have attended
these conferences are President B. W.
Smith, Counselor Annie T. Hyde, President
Jane S. Richards, Secretary E. B. Wells,
President M. Isabella Horne, Sisters Eliza-
beth J. Stevenson, Lydia D. Alder, Julia C.
Howe, Julia P. M. Farnsworth, Harriet Ann
Badger, Margaret A. Caine, Ruthinda E.
Moench.
	Sister Lucy B. Young, who has also been
absent from Utah for over two years has
returned home from her travels. She spent
most of the time in Germany in charge of
her granddaughter, Miss Emma Lucy Gates,
who has been studying music abroad most
of the time in Berlin. Mrs. Young while in
Germany was appointed to preside over the
branches of the Relief Society in that mission
and will be able to give us definite informa-
tion concerning the work of this charitable
organization in that country. She has
greatly enjoyed her sojourn abroad and has
doubtless made good use of her time and
planted some good seed in that far-off land
that will eventually bear fruit. The
Exponent bids Sister Young a loving wel-
come to the city of the Saints where dwell
her loved ones and may she be able to do
much more in the cause of truth and right-
eousness in the future.
	The Daughters of the Revolution at their
meeting, on November 16, had an old-
fashioned New England Thanksgiving

[Column 2]
dinner; roast turkey and cranberry sauce,
baked beans and brown bread, doughnuts
and pumpkin pie with all the usual ad-
juncts, pickles, etc The paper was by
Mrs. Lucy Woodruff Smith, and was
exceedingly well written and read de-
lightfully. The subject was the geography
of the battles of the Revolution from Lexing-
ton to Yorktown, with many bright pas-
sages, though such a serious matter to be
treated upon. The EXPONENT office, where
the banquet was spread, was decorated
with flags and the colors of the society,
blue and yellow, and blue bowls of yellow
chrysanthemums effectually carried out the
color design. At table the colors prevailed
even in decorating the great bowl of baked
beans.
	The Utah Woman’s Press Club cele-
brated its tenth anniversary at the rooms
of the retiring president, Mrs. C. C. R.
Wells, in the Constitution Building, with
choice musical selections, vocal and instru-
metal and character representations of the
ladies of the White House, commencing
with Lady Martha Washington, Abagail
Adams and so on, down to Mrs. Wm.
McKinley. A brief outline of the work of
the club and what had been accomplished
in entertaining, etc., was given by Mrs.
Lydia D. Alder and refreshments were
served at the close of the entertainment.
The new officers for the ensuing year
were officially installed. They are Mrs.
Lydia D. Alder, president; Mrs. Ella W.
Hyde and Mrs. Grace L. Anderson vice-
presidents Dr. Ellis R. Shipp, correspond-
ing secretary; Mrs. Emma Jensen, record-
ing secretary; Mrs. Rebecca H. Doolan,
treasurer.
	The Annual Convention of the Utah
federation of Women’s Clubs was held
in Provo, October 27, 28 and 29, of
this year, Mrs, C. E. Coulter presiding.
The program was a satisfactory one and the
addresses and discussions were calculated to
stimulate the members and all interested in
club work to renewed efforts in the future.
The officers chosen for the ensuing year were
Mrs. Chester E. Coulter (Ogden) president
for the second term; Mrs. E. E. Corfman,
(Provo) vice-president; Mrs. E. M. Bishop,
(Ogden) corresponding secretary; Mrs. Wm.
Iglehart (Salt Lake City) recording secre-
tary Mrs. K. Hilliard, (Ogden) State
organizer; Mrs. W. Scott, (Park City)
treasurer. The Executive Committee are
Mesdames C. E. Coulter, (Ogden); F. D.
Bickford, (Salt Lake City); E. E. Corfman,
(Provo) E. Bischel, (Ogden); C. D.
Moore, (Salt Lake); E. G. Gowans,
(Logan); W. Scott, (Park City); K. Hilli-
ard, (Ogden); W. Konald, M. Ellingsford
and Miss Dougall, (Springville); Mesdames
D. E. Hemphill, S. Simon, G. B. Blakely,
W. W. Riter, C. S. Kinney, J. Cowan, E.
B. Wells, (Salt Lake.)
	Mr. and Mrs. George H. Taggart gave a
studio reception in their handsome and
artistic rooms in the Templeton, on Tues-
day, November 12, from 3 to 5 p. m. The
decorations were very effective, white
chrysanthemums in the reception room,
with ivy and fern leaves in contrast, and
two shades of yellow in the tea room, with
the ivy green and fern leaves. It was a
brilliant affair after the manner of studio
receptions in Paris, and was most delight-
ful. Mrs. Taggart who is a bride of only
about a month, (and of course charming)
was assisted in receiving by Mrs. Sol Siegel

[Column 3]
who is always at her best in society, and in
a studio there is much to interest and
entertain. Mr. Taggart’s pictures are a
great attraction and one could not fail to
enjoy this rare opportunity of seeing in
the best light these fine paintings. Of
course the tea was delicious and refreshing
and the novelty of the affair made it all,the
more attractive. About one hundred and
fifty guests passed in and out and paid their
respects to the well known artist and his
bride.
	Tuesday, October 29, we attended by
invitation the social reunion of the Relief
Society of the Fourteenth Ward in this
city. President Maria W. Wilcox presided
and her counselors, Margaret Y. Taylor
and Elizabeth J. Stevenson, were both
present, also Miss Joan Campbell, the very
efficient secretary, and Mrs. Ella W. Hyde,
the treasurer, with most of the teachers
and members of the Society. This society
is one of the oldest in Utah and has always
been a very prosperous one. On many
occisions special meetings have been held
and distinguished visitors, both brethren
and sisters, have been the honored guests
of the Society. On the occasion mentioned
Bishop George H. Taylor and President
Angus M. Cannon were among the visitors
of the ladies. President B. W. Smith,
Counselor Clara C. Cannon and Aid Julia
C. Howe, of the Salt Lake Stake, also
Sister Elizabeth T. Webb and the writer
were present. The speakers bore strong
testimonies of the truth of the Gospel,
referring to the Relief Society work and
the benefits resulting from it towards
woman’s spiritual cultivation, and urged
the younger women to become members
and take part in the charitable and philan-
thropic efforts for the amelioration of suffer-
ing humanity. The hall was beautifully
decorated and the music both vocal and
instrumental was exceptionally good. The
President and her committee had prepared
light refreshments that were bountifully
served to all present after the close of the
meeting. Such social gatherings strengthen
the union of those whose duties and labors
are of a similar nature, and increase con-
fidence in and love for each other which
must be uplifting to all who participate in
the spirit of fraternity that exists where
the motives are pure and the desire is to
serve God and keep His commandments.
	The Relief Society conference of the
Granite Stske was held on Tuesday, Nov-
ember 12, in Big Cottonwood Ward meet-
ing house, President Emma S. Woodruff
presiding. Her counselors, Mary P.
Young and Katharine H. Brockbank were
on the platform, the secretary, Armeda S.
Young, and treasurer, Maria B. Winder,
were also present. There was a good
attendance of the sisters from the several
wards and excellent reports were given by
the respective presidents of the Relief
Society. Visitors present were General
President Bathsheba W. Smith and her
first counselor, Annie T. Hyde, and
Secretary Emmeline B. Wells and Presi-
dent M. Isabella Horne, of the Salt Lake
Stake also Sisters Mary A. Freeze and
Helen W. Woodruff, of the General Board
of the Young Ladies. Brief addresses were
made by each of these sisters during the
conference on subjects relating to the work
and duties of the society, as well as testi-
monies borne to the truth of the Gospel
The musical exercises were excellent


the solos rendered by Mrs. Hull and Miss
Crismon were very enjoyable indeed. A
fine luncheon had been prepared by the
good sisters of the ward Relief Society
under the supervision of President Emily
Stevenson which was partaken of by a
large number, two long tables full, and
others were invited to residences near at
hand and treated to hot dinners and warm
welcomes. The day was pleasant and the
conference spiritual and interesting. Bishop
Casto and Elder Wm. Taylor endorsed
the remarks of the sisters and each of these
brethren spoke a short time.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OFFICIAL NOTICE.
	The Stake Secretaries of the Relief
Society and the Secretary of each mission
or branch not yet included in a Stake,
whether in our own or in foreign countries,
are hereby officially notified to carefully
prepare correct statistical and financial
reports for the current year from January
1, 1901, to December 31, 1901. These
reports must be forwarded to the General
Secretary at the office of the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, Salt Lake City, Utah, early in
February, if possible, so that a complete
report of this great organization may be
ready at least ten days before the General
Conference in April, 1902.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,
General Secretary.


[Column 1]
GENERAL CONFERENCE RELIEF SOCIETY.
	The October Conference of the Relief
Society was held Thursday, October 3,
1901, in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall in
this city, commencing at 10 a. m., Presi-
dent Jane S. Richards presiding.
	The morning was devoted to Memorial
Services in honor of the late President Zina
D. H. Young.
	The secretary, Sister E. B. Wells, read
the address of Sister Zina at the conference
she last attended, which was published in the
EXPONENT, also the two letters that had
been published this year addressed to
the sisters, signed by Sister Young and
her counselors.
	President Richards requested that the
favorite hymn composed by our beloved
“Sister Eliza,” be sung, “O, My Father.”
	Prayer was offered by President Rebecca
Standring, of Alpine Stake, followed by
the hymn, "When first the glorious light
of truth.”
	President Richards said: "We’ve decided
to devote this morning to a Memorial
Service to speak of our beloved President.
If we should do as we feel we should not
be able to speak at all, but Sister Zina
would wish us to go on with the work she
has done so well, and therefore we shall
endeavor to carry out her wishes, and to
follow in her footsteps. I would like
Sister Horne to be the first speaker.”
	President M. Isabella Horne, Salt Lake
Stake, felt inadequate to speak upon the
subject presented. “Sister Zina was
spiritual and a chosen spirit to come forth
in this day and age of the world like many
others whom we have known. She
never found fault, always passed lightly
over the faults of others and tried not to
expose them. There is nothing for us to
grieve over in her departure, her works
were great and grand and noble in sickness
and distress. Let us follow her example,
many are called, but few are chosen. And

[Column 2]
why are they not chosen? Because they
do not follow the Savior’s precepts, by
living the religion of the Gospel as taught
by Him. President Young used to tell us
to live our religion was the whole law of
the Lord. We need the guidance of the
Holy Spirit day by day in our labors. The
example of Sister Zina is before us. May
we be wise in our walks and conversation
that we may meet her again, is my prayer
in the name of Jesus.”
	President B. W. Smith said: “I feel
happy in being here, though if I were to
follow my feelings I should be sorrowful.
I miss Sister Zina so much. I could not
bear to see her suffering. I felt it was
possible for her to be with us in spirit here
today, and I think, too, of Mother
Whitney and Emma Smith and Sister
Eliza." Sister Smith then related a
significent dream she had recently about
Sister Eliza, and then repeated some of
Joseph the Prophet’s sayings to the Relief
Society. Sister Smith had enjoyed Sister
Zina’s company in the Temple where they
had worked together, but had not been
able to travel much among the sisters. It
had been her calling to work for the dead.
She was happy in that work. Asked the
Lord to bless us and prepare us for every
future event that awaits us, and hoped we
would all prove faithful.
	President Sarah J. Cannon said: “It is
with deep reverence and humility and my
heart full to overflowing with love for
Sister Zina that I say a few words. I desire
to follow in her footsteps and emulate her
example. Her great mantle of charity
was enough for all the mothers in Israel,
she always found the good in every one. I
have never seen any one so gentle, loving,
tender, forbearing and forgiving. But she
has gone. She could not stay any longer
with us. I cannot speak more, I am not
equal to it. May the Lord bless us all, is
my prayer. Amen.”
	President Susan Grant, Davis Stake: “I
agree with all that has been spoken of
Sister Zina. I knew her in the days of my
childhood. She used to come to our house
to see the Prophet and those of his faithful
wives that used to be at our home in
Nauvoo. I always rejoiced that I had the
privilege of being associated with the faith-
ful wives of Joseph here, and I want to be
with them hereafter. I loved Sister Zina,
she was always willing to go where duty
called her. It did not matter what kind
of weather or under what circumstances, it
was all right. Let us try and learn all we
can here, get knowledge, light and intelli-
gence. We will take that with us when we
go hence.”
	Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie: “Sister Richards
has asked me to speak of mother. The
word “mother" fills my heart to overflow-
ing. Her whole life was in itself a perfect,
a beautiful poem, which, if each leaf were
taken separately by us, we could make our
lives sublime. I have no words to express
her tenderness for me, the only mother I
ever knew. May we all live to follow her
perfect example and prove worthy to be
associated with her hereafter, is my
prayer.”
	Dr. R. B. Pratt: “I have often wondered
how many women there were to whom
Sister Zina had ministered when they most
needed blessing and comfort. There will
be four special gems in her crown—humili-
ty, charity, love and sacrifice. May we all

[Column 3]
live so as to meet her in the day to come, is
my prayer."
	Sister Lucy W. Kimball: “I am glad to
meet with you on this occasion. I can en-
dorse the remarks that have been made.
We do not want to see our loved ones linger
and suffer, we could not wish those
back again who have gone to their
rest, however dear to us they may have
been. I believe of all our labors that the
Temple work is the greatest, the progress
of the work for the dead I know by the
inspiration of the spirit of God, that they
have accepted of our labors. Let us go
forward and not backward in this great
work, and press on to victory.”
	Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth: “I loved
Aunt Zina, not only for her own sake, but
because of my parents and grandparents.
My mother’s sister was a wife of the
Prophet Joseph. We know Sister Zina
never did or said anything that was
beneath a woman and a Mother in Israel.
We should do her honor, every one of us
and follow her noble example, that we
may be worthy to meet her in the here-
after, is my prayer. Amen.”
	Sister Emily S. Richards: “I know we
all feel alike about Aunt Zina. We loved
to meet with her in our conferences, and
she and Aunt Eliza took such interest in
the young married women. The first time
Aunt Eliza asked me to speak in meeting,
I could not, and she said, ‘Never mind,
but when you are asked to speak again,
try and have something to say,’ and I did
have something to speak about. I feel
that I was blest to know them, they had
power in ministering, there was healing in
their touch. It was a comfort to us all to
be in their presence and hear their words
of encouragement.”
	President Mary Alice C. Lambert: "I
believe if ever there was a woman who did
her duty in every respect, our President,
Sister Zina Young, did. She was a pat-
tern for us all, I feel it is our loss to have
to part with her society, but it is her gain.
She has done her work faithfully and well
and has gone to her reward, and may we
also be true and worthy to meet her when
our time shall come, is my prayer. Amen.”
	Sister Elizabeth J. Stevenson alluded to
what had been read of Sister Zina’s last
words to the sisters and thought if they
would carry out the advice given it would
be glorious. Spoke of Sister Zina’s visits
to her and her children in her sickness,
testified of her sacrifices and declared her
to be a true Saint of God. Thanked the
Lord for the privilege of knowing her.
Knew she could be trusted, for she never
betrayed confidence or told anything in-
trusted to her to keep sacred. Her life
was pure and her works were deeds of love
and charity. She had suffered much
persecution for principle, and had been
patient, enduring all for the Gospel’s sake
“May we also be true in passing through
fiery ordeals and come off conquerors as she
has done.”
	President Julia P. Lindsay, Bear Lake
Stake: “I feel to rejoice in meeting with
you today, yet I feel sorrowful in thinking
of our dear, departed Sister Zina. I have
known her since childhood, not in Kirtland
but in Nauvoo. I knew her there intimate-
ly, and I want to share in the glories that
she will enjoy in the hereafter. I know of
her goodness, of her integrity and of her
truth. We have been kept back to come
forth in this day and age of the world. If I


[Column 1]
could only say something that would
inspire those who are indifferent to the
privileges and blessings of the Gospel I
should feel glad. But let us remember the
parable of the ten virgins and have oil in
our lamps, and keep them trimmed and
burning.”
	President Jane S. Richards: “I suppose
we could all say a great deal more, and
much more might be said of the goodness
and excellence of our dear Sister Zina. I
have known her many years very intimate-
ly, and have been closely associated with
her the last few years as her counselor since
1888. I spent the last evening and the
last but one with her in her own home in
this city before she went away to Canada.
Sister Jacobs wished me to defer it until
she came back from her visit, but she said,
‘It’s all right, I’m glad you’ve come.’ I
asked her many questions about what
we’ve done and what we ought to do, and
of what we had not done. She wanted me
to stay with her, but I excused myself
on account of my folks being worried
about me. She prayed for me and blessed
me and said she wanted to come back alive.
That prayer was answered. It seemed
just as though it was her last, she did come
back alive. She did not stay here as long
as we wanted her. She had done her work
and maybe she can do more on the other side.
Let us not think too much of this world.
Some young women are taken away before
those who are older. Those who are
young now will grow old, and if you honor
and help those who are laboring in this
work you will never be sorry. Do as you
would be done by. Let us be very for-
giving, but we are subject to weakness, as
St. Paul said, ‘When I would do good,
evil is present with me.’ But we can
overcome in many things. Let us be full of
charity and remember those who need our
help when cast down. May we all be
faithful that we may go where Sister
Eliza and Sister Zina and the Prophet have
gone, is my prayer.
	The congregation, standing, sang,
“Praise God from whom all blessings
flow.” Adjourned until 2 p. m. Bene-
diction by President Ann C. Woodbury,
St. George Stake.

	Afternoon session opened by singing
“Redeemer of Israel,” by the Temple
choir. Prayer by Professor C. J. Thomas.
Singing, “Who are these arrayed in
white.” Roll call by secretary, 34 Stakes
represented.
	President Sarah Pope, Uintah Stake,
reported a good feeling among the mem-
bers and that efforts were being made to
build granaries and society halls in the
several wards, meetings were held regular-
ly and there was great energy manifested
in carrying on the work of the society.
	President Jane Barlow Muir, Woodruff
Stake, said they had long distances to
travel by team in visiting the different
branches, but everything was in excellent
order and they had recently had a very
good conference.
	President Dorcas Worthington, of Grants-
ville, reported Tooele Stake in absence of
the Stake President Emily J. Anderson.
Thought the sisters were energetic in their
duties, seeking to live their religion and
love one another.
	President Celestia Y. Pack, Summit
Stake, considered they were doing all in
their power, were taking care of the poor,

[Column 2]
had recently visited through the county
and found the sisters full of zeal and
energy.
	President Rebecca Standring said every
ward in the Stake had been visited and the
members seemed to live up to every duty,
and were willing to devote liberally toward
the erection of the Woman’s Building.
Spoke of our late President, and how
thankful she was to have had the privilege
of being present at the Memorial Service
in the morning, alluded to the great in-
fluence Sister Zina always carried where-
ever she went and spoke of the many visits
Sister Eliza R. Snow and Sister Zina had
made her. Desired to be worthy of their
society and confidence hereafter.
	Counselor Flotilda Funk, San Luis
Stake, made an excellent report of their
circumstances and the excellent feeling
that prevailed among the sisters. They
have a hall of their own to meet in and the
Word of Wisdom was faithfully observed,
also the law of tithing.
	President Louisa Haight, Cassia Stake,
said the members were striving to do every
duty and respond to every call. She and
her counselors had visited all around the
Stake recently and had an enjoyable time.
They had tried to fulfil every responsibility.
She believed all were in the line of duty.
	President Temperance Hinckley, Fre-
mont Stake, stated there had been much
sickness the last year, which had prevented
them from making the usual round of
visits, but all were in good condition in the
several branches and all trying to live their
religion and be faithful to the work.
	President Mary A. Call, Bannock Stake,
stated that she and her counselors made a
practice of visiting all the branches once a
year, that they tried to keep up with all
requirements. Their members were faith-
ful in the performance of every duty
required of them, and were energetic and
pressing forward in every good work.
	President Eliza M. Oram, Pocatello
Stake, said they visited all around twice
every year, although the settlements were
widely scattered; the sisters were liberal in
contributing towards the Woman’s Build-
ing. While she was in the audience in the
morning she wanted to speak of our be-
loved President, Sister Zina. Two years
ago she had visited her in her home and
should never forget the heavenly influence
she felt there when Sister Zina spoke in the
gift of tongues. She felt it was a taste of
heaven. “Let us all live exemplary
lives that we may meet Sister Zina again.”
Referred to some of the teachings of
President Franklin D. Richards that had
greatly impressed her at the time.
	Sister Charlotte E. Driver, by request
of President Jane S. Richards, represented
Weber Stake. She was thankful she was
deemed worthy to report Weber Stake.
Stated that they had a larger attendance at
their Stake conference in Ogden than we
had in Salt Lake at the General Conference
of the Relief Society. That there was no
call made upon the sisters there that was
not readily responded to. They were try-
ing to build a house to meet in there in
Ogden. They hoped to be successful in
getting the building completed. The land
had been given them. She always enjoyed
meeting with the sisters, felt it was a
privilege to meet with the Saints and to
perform all the duties and obligations re-
quired in the Church.
	Brother John Lindsey sang a solo entitled

[Column 3]
“The Better Land,” chorus by the Temple
choir, which added greatly to the enjoy-
ment of the audience.
	Counselor Asenath R. Grover, Juab
Stake, said: “We have some of the very
best sisters in our Stake, but we are badly
scattered. In Nephi, North and South
Wards, we have halls for meetings, we
hold conferences twice a year and officers’
meetings about six times a year. We have
nine hundred bushels of grain on hand, we
own some sheep and our society is prosper-
ing.”
	President Mary John, Utah Stake, said
they were doing well, gathering grain and
building houses, and were anxious to keep
pace with the times and to comply with all
requirements, and to respond to every call
made. They paid the ten cent donation
and had donated to the building. Intended
to do all in their power. Felt the loss of our
President, “Aunt Zina,” who had just left
us, had known her for many years. Knew
her to be a lovely woman. Spoke of
President Woodruff so often remembering
the Relief Society in his public speaking.
Thought it very gratifying.
	President Louisa B. Benson, Oneida
Stake, had visited around the Stake and
held meetings in most of the places. The
sisters seemed willing to respond to the
calls made upon them, and were donating
to the Woman’s Building. She would
like to say a word about Aunt Zina, realized
that the blessing she gave to her had come
to pass since the time she promised it. Felt
there had been great improvement in their
meetings.
	Counselor Adelia Crosby, Panguitch
Stake, stated they had six hundred bushels
of grain stored, but early frosts often
hinder our wheat from maturing. Had
three society halls and were contemplating
building more. The sisters seem very
willing to assist towards the Woman’s
Building. She felt inspired to press for-
ward and exhort our sisters to be up and
doing, and not lack in good works.
	President Jane S. Coleman, Wayne
Stake, reported fifteen hundred bushels of
grain stored and several thousand of mul-
berry trees planted and growing. Fifty-
two pounds of cocoons had been raised this
season. The sisters try to live up to the
spirit of the work in which we are engaged
and fulfill every duty.
	President Jane S. Richards said our time
is never long enough for all our sisters to
tell us what they are doing. We should
be glad to hear from every President here,
but time will not permit. President
Brigham Young gave much instruction to
the Relief Society. He told us to store up
wheat against a day of famine. We may
not live to see the famine, but we must do
what is required of us and all will be well.
We should keep in remembrance the coun-
sel we have had from President Young and
other brethren and sisters, and strive to live
lives of purity, and above all to be chari-
table and full of kindness. Exhorted all to
remember Sister Zina’s last address to the
conference. How precious her words were.
We must try to follow in her footsteps.
Hoped to be with her and Sister Eliza R.
Snow and the Prophet Joseph in the time
to come. Said there would be an evening
meeting when others would have an oppor-
tunity to report. Urged all to be prompt,
was glad to see some of the brethren
present.
	The Temple choir sang, sweetly, the


[Column 1]
hymn, that was sung at President Mc-
Kinley’s funeral, “Sometime We’ll
Understand.” Benediction by Elder
Joseph Daynes.

	Evening session, President Jane S.
Richards presiding. Meeting opened by
the congregation singing “Now let us
rejoice in the day of salvation.” Prayer by
Elder John R. West, of Snowflake,
Arizona. “Singing, “Come, come, ye
Saints.”
	President Bathsheba W. Smith was the
first speaker. She was glad to be present
and had enjoyed the conference through
the day, hearing from the far-off places.
“While sitting here I have been thinking
what a terrible thing it would be for me to
be cast out into utter darkness Brother
Orson Pratt said those who were sent into
darkness would be so far from the light,
of the sun, that would be the cause of utter
darkness. I was always glad that I never
belonged to any church before receiving
the Gospel. I have tried to learn well
what we call Mormonism. Now we have
the light, let us try to walk in the light.”
	President Sarah J. Cannon gave some
account of her mission and visit to the
Relief Society branches of the South
Western mission. She reported having
had a splendid time at St. John, Kansas.
She and Sister Hyde, who accompanied
her, were met at the depot when they
arrived and had every attention paid them.
There were quite a number of our faith in
that place, the Mayor of the city was
friendly. The Relief Society sisters needed
instruction and they had told them how to
go about their work and carry on their
meetings. They had gathered up a little
money and sent it by them to the Woman’s
Building. Sisters Cannon and Hyde felt
full of joy that they were permitted to go over
the ground so sacred to our people. There
were three days conferences, one day for the
Relief Society. The young boys who were
there on missions had tears in their eyes
when meeting the sisters, it recalled their
mothers at home and they said, “If you see
my mother or any of my folks tell them
about us.’ We made a flying trip to
Nauvoo between the conferences. The
proprietor at the hotel took us in his car-
riage through the city and pointed out the
old landmarks. He told us that the
Temple well had never been dry. The
people come to it from far and near in
times of drouth, and it furnishes sufficient
to water the cattle as well. He showed us
where the mob had their cannons and
where they fired from upon the people at
the time of the Nauvoo battle; pointed out
the houses of Brigham Young, Heber C.
Kimball and Wilford Woodruff, that are
still standing, also the mansion house, the
residence of Joseph the Prophet, and other
notable places, telling us one was the
house of George Q. Cannon, but we told
him he was only a boy in Nauvoo, it
might have been where his father lived.
There are some well to do people in the
Church in those branches in that South
Western mission, and they want us here to
pray for them. May we all live worthy, is
my prayer. Amen.”
	Sister Annie T. Hyde hoped the Lord
would prompt her, that she might give
the instruction she desired to. She thought
President Duffin taught the boys in the
mission properly, what they should do and
how to conduct themselves. The boys

[Column 2]
that have been sent there are very young
men. Some of them have not much edu-
cation or experience in speaking, but they
do very well indeed under Brother Duffin.
While there we visited one of the largest
manufacturing establishments in Kansas
City, with the manager. We talked with
the women employed there, and they told
us of the prices for work and they were
very low prices indeed. We also
went through the restaurant and took
lunch with the manager. At St. John
they have a meeting house and a hall.
The sisters have made a number of quilts,
we brought one home The missionaries are
well fed in the country, but in Kansas city
one missionary told us he had gone three
days at one time without food. In that
city the Saints have a nice new meeting
house, nicely arranged, but they are wait-
ing and wearying to come to Zion. A
lady where we were stopping told us her
husband was at one time going to raise a
mob to drive out the Mormons. When
Carrie Nation was around this man was
killed, and the murderer flew for his life.
From Jay we went to Kansas City, there
we talked to the young men in one of the
meetings for two hours. We held one or
meetings there with the sisters. They
have comfortable quarters and meeting
rooms, and they go around from house to
bouse. We went from Kansas City over
to Independence, there we saw some of the
Saints and we went to the Josephite
Church, it is a gray stone building. The city
is building up, there are some fine residen-
ces. We saw there the widow of John
E. Page, 83 years old. She thinks that
Zion will be built there, and the pure in
heart will dwell there. In Nauvoo where
we visited we drove over to the old grave-
yard. Saw Emma Smith’s grave, the peo-
ple believe the Prophet is buried there.
We had an enjoyable time, but we scarcely
realize how we are blest here. The Saints
there are praying and living near to the
Lord.
	President Jane S. Richards made the
closing address of the Conference. Sue
said: “We have been listening to quite a
description of the country familiar to us;
and there is always something to remind us
of the Prophet. It was in Nauvoo I first
saw him. It makes one feel strange to
think of him, and then after the times
and times he was taken up and tried and
proved innocent, that he should be killed
at last. We tried to show him our respect
whenever he was with us. It was like
heaven to be in his presence and see him
come again after he had been taken away
and returned again to us. My husband
and myself visited Nauvoo and Carthage.
We wanted to hear what they had to say
before we told them we were Mormons.
They told us a great many things. We
broke a little corner off the jail. The
woman who showed us through asked us if
we would like a piece of the rock. There
is a solemnity in these historic places that
is not very interesting. The Lord has
done so much for us and we are here now
in safety, and the Lord made this country
a refuge for us, and we ought to have great
joy. When we laid down at night we did
not know whether we would be safe, but
President Young said we should never be
driven if we lived our religion. Perhaps I
am not talking right I wanted to talk
about the children, I love to see them nice
and well behaved, and I do fancy we are

[Column 3]
careless about our little children. This is
the last dispensation of the fulness of
times, and we should be devoted to the
Gospel and teach them. We are told a
great deal about our tithing, and we want
to teach it to the children. If I was weak
in the faith, the one thing I would
like would be to have some one take
hold of me and help me. If one gets a
little cold we should be careful of their
feelings. I met a boy the other day whose
parents and grandparents were good Saints.
He was nobody’s darling, and had no one
to go to for a kind word. I set down and
talked to him about what we had passed
through. He felt he had no chance to go
and get baptized. I told him to get him-
self ready, get himself into shape. I hope
and pray that he will, that is Relief Society
work, to help save souls, and we can plead
with each other, and that the Lord may
help us, is my prayer. Amen.”
	The congregation, standing, sang “Lord
dismiss us with Thy blessing.”
	President Jane S. Richards announced
that the conference was adjourned to April,
1902. Benediction, by Sister E. B. Wells.
			E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


The Fortnightly of the Massachusetts
W. S. A. was held last Tuesday at 3 Park
Street, Boston, in spite of the rain and
heaviest fog ever seen outside of London.
The following resolutions were adopted:

	Whereas, in Colorado Miss Emma Herey has
just been re-elected county superintendent of
schools for Arapahoe county, (Denver) six parties
uniting in nominating her; and whereas women
were also chosen superintendents in many other
counties; 
	Resolved, That we call attention to the fitness
of educated and public-spirited women for such
positions, and urge a larger representation of such
women on the Boston School Board.
	Whereas in Utah, at the recent election,
Margaret Snow was chosen city treasurer of
Provo, Mrs. Ellis Day city treasurer of Mt.
Pleasant, Harriet Smith, city recorder of Logan,
Harriet L. Brown, city auditor of Ogden, and
several other women to minor offices; and where-
as, the election is reported to have been “as quiet
as a funeral”;
	Resolved, That we call attention to the civiliz-
ing effect of equal suffrage on election methods,
and to the fact that it opens to the women oppor-
tunities for civic usefulness elsewhere closed to
them.


Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank n Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation

Vol. 30	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, THE CHRISTMAS NUMBER, 1901.	No. 8


CONTENTS.
A Happy Afternoon......................L. L. G. Richards	58
Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting..........J. S. Woolley	58
Resolution of Sympathy...........................................	58
Emma Hale Smith...........................Lucy M. Wright	56
Resolution.................................................................	59
Emma Lucy Gates......................................A Friend	61
Granite Stake................................Armeda S. Young	62
Utah Woman’s Press Club......................L. D. Alder	63
EDITORIAL—Christmas Thoughts........................	60
	Wedding Anniversary.......................................	60
	Birthday Banquet..............................................	60
	Editorial Notes..................................................	61
POETRY—The Life Within...Augusta J. Crocheron	57
	The Natal Day.............................Ellis R. Shipp	57 
	At Christmas Tide............Guy Wtmore Cayyrl	57 
	Sarah E. Carmichael............Henry W. Naisbitt	59
	Nineteen One..............................Ellis R. Shipp	59


[Column 1]
THE LIFE WITHIN.
AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.

I saw a model that had been wrought
For a rich man’s castle and grounds,  
A dream of beauty that lacked no thought
You could offer, within their bounds;
For grandeur, beauty and grace were there,
(All to be brought and fashioned, where
The water ran and the grass grew green,
And the ancient trees o’erspread the scene;)
And I thought, as I looked upon site and plan:
“A beautiful form must shrine the man,
Poet and artist, be in his face—
To so transfigure this lonely place.” 

But his form was bent and his face was thin,
And the eyes looked down not up; 
The gifts of his soul all hid within,
Like gems in a covered cup;
Then I thought: “How little we read aright
The faces that pass before our sight;
For there goes a king without his crown,
Ruling, but not by threat or frown;
E’en monarch must search for the Master mind,
The fitting parts of the whole to find,
And the wilderness and the wealth must wait
For the soul to shape and make them great.

So fairy like, only fingers fine
Might touch nor tear such filmy lace; 
I thought: “What dainty maid did twine
These threads with such ethereal grace?
Like the apple bloom, her cheeks fair dye,
Like the sweet ‘forget me not’ her eye,
Like silken floss, her loose bound hair
And her spirit, light as the springtime air?”
For, only by beauty and youth, it seemed,
Were such bewildering marvels dreamed;
Only a young life, bright and new—
Ever such rare ideals drew.

But, like magician in strange disguise,
Bending, the old lace maker stood;
Faded and weak were her faithful eyes,
Gone, all the beauty of maidenhood.
“When—I began to learn this work first?
I remember no more, than when I nursed.
Out of the frost, ere the morning sun,
Some of the patterns I have won.
In dampened room, where threads may not fray,
And on my work one narrow ray,
I’ve toiled life long. We folks need not much—
The fine, gay world for the rich, not such
As we; but, I oft times think we know
Our labors beauty better than they
Who wear it proudly, flaunting so,
Then drop it, as flowers faded away,
While fashion changes another way.”
Then I thought; “Which is the higher one?
The souls that catch, as life’s changes run,
Ideals that in the dim silence fall—
Bringing to touch and sight through all
Poverty’s patience and sacrifice,
Beauties that charm even royal eyes;
Or Fortune’s fair ones that only know
These things after toil hath wrought them so?”
Secure in wealth, ye wear at rest—
Another’s jewels on your breast.

Splendor and beauty that gold hath bought—
Hath it wrought in your souls its spell?
Or do ye wear it with but the thought
That it becometh your beauty well?

[Column 2]
These are only graced without,
Adornings that time and change wear out,
While deep in the toiler’s spirits grow
Visions of beauty in endless flow—
And though they pass from the workers’ hands,
Artists and toilers unknown to fame—
They are the owners—their’s the claim
What is truly ours; if we but begin
To count our treasures? Just what’s within. 

There was a babe most fair and sweet,
(All mothers living think just the same:)
’Twas mine, and my happiness complete,
No cloud o’er my silent dreamings came;
But what I wondered oft: “What will unfold
In this speechless mystery I hold
In my arms, when future years shall bring
God’s purposes to their blossoming?”
O, gently live, that no discord jar
Harmony of his soul, to mar
The perfect plan that thou knowest not—
By him once known but now forgot.

As the years grew on I watched for a sign,
Oft, now and then, I caught, (and smiled)
Some clew to the purposes Divine—
Some blest assurance for the child
Then fears—for who else ever heard
The “still voice” that my spirit stirred,
And how can a mother “hush” the sound
Of a world of strife that gathers ’round 
In closer circles about her own,
And stem back all that were best unknown? 
Smiling the while, as by love, to win,
Which way his spirit leaned within.

By many types, full well I know 
That every creature he hath framed
In our mortality, high or low,
Holdeth such jewel He hath named,
Within its being. “Hide not thy light,”
Is His command. Yet gloom and blight
Thwart the uprising of the soul;
Oppression and poverty control
The spirit that else might show forth
Its hidden treasures, name and worth;
Earth’s fault, not God’s, for He lets fall
Justice and love unto us all.
They, who withhold a creature’s right
Then boast of higher power and mind; 
Will such be guiltless in his sight
Who in His image made mankind?
That time is passing; through His grace
Smiles shall light up the abject face,
And humble lives in low estate,
Through faithfulness shall be made great.
O, Soul, if thou hast found and known
The gift He gavest for thine own,
Use it, and take back free from sin, 
The gem He placed, thy life within.


THE NATAL DAY.
ELLIS R. SHIPP.

Oh! for glimpse through Heaven’s portal,
Oh! for words and thoughts immortal,
And for inspiration’s glory
To portray that old sweet story,
Of our Savior born of woman.
Who partook of passions human,
Yet was he the incarnation,
Sent for mortal man’s salvation!

Who can sense a love like Father’s?
Who could give His son for others, 
Sent His “Best Beloved,” ’tis written,
To be persecuted—smitten!
By our unbelieving nation,
Who rejected Life’s Salvation.
Only minds divine can fathom
Depths of such unselfish passion!
Yet He sent Him on this mission—
Though He knew but few would listen.
First the Saintly John as presage 
Of this wondrous holy message,
Crying with unbroken sentence
To the world, Faith and Repentance,
Then Baptism by immersion,
And the Holy Ghost’s reception.

In the Heavens ’twas predestined,
That a spirit be commissioned


Here to take an earthly body; 
With surroundings dark and cloudy
With environments of mortals—
Though he came from Heaven’s portals.
That this marvelous conception
Prove God’s plan for man’s redemption.
But this message from high Heaven
To the world sublimely given,
Was rejected, and the Savior!
Treated as a gross deceiver.
And they crucified their Master!
Bringing darkness and disaster,
Ah! no wonder, nations languish
Here for ages in their anguish.

’Twas but prophets, seers and sages,
Who for long, eventful ages,
Could believe the restoration
Of this Gospel’s dispensation.
But ’tis here. Rejoice ye nations!
Here the boon of your Salvation,
Beaming in its pristine glory
With its precepts wise and hoarv.
 
Then awake the world from sleeping
Calm all fears and solemn weeping,
Let all creeds and tongues and peoples
Now proclaim it from their steeples,
That the pure and olden Gospel,
Taught by Christ and His Apostles,
Is restored in its perfection,
To mankind, for their redemption.

Now, while Christendom rejoices,
Let all blend their grateful voices, 
All the world in one grand union,
On Christ’s Birthday hold communion.
Sacred truth is now appealing
To each inmost soul-revealing,
Cause of praise and true thanksgiving, 
That the Gospel still is living.


AT CHRISTMAS TIME.
		SELECTED.
A moment since, as bell to answering bell
	In twelve clear notes spelt slowly Christmas
		Day,
I was alone. Then, whence I cannot tell,
	She came, calm-eyed and gowned in ashen gray
I watched her slender hand swing wide the door
	And saw her thread the intervening gloom;
The air she stirred upon its bosom bore
	A breath of indefinable perfume!
Then, standing there beneath the mistletoe.
	She beckoned me, and, rising at the sign,
I went, as lovers to their ladies go,
	And touched the lips of Memory with mine!
A shadow kiss it was, but in its train
	Thronged all subservient shadows of the years.
She whispered, and the past was mine again.
	In motley mantled of its smiles and tears;
Some magic phial she opened, and there rose
	Faint, airy arabesques of other times,
And age’s story through its solemn prose
	Rang with youth’s gaily interrippling rhymes!
While at the sluggish pulse of age there thrilled 
	A glow as of some unimagined wine,
The fire with half forgotten faces filled;—
	I touched the lips of Memory with mine!

Beneath another mistletoe than this,
	A little lad—with what pure lips, ah me!—
Pledged boyish troth, and in that eager kiss
	Life’s fingers first touched love’s minor key! 
I had forgotten how he used to stand,
	Slender and straight his little mates among,
Till Memory touched with her magician hand
	These blinded eyes of age and made them
		young!
But Spring, that knew no sorrow, with the flame
	Of faith’s white taper blazing on its shrine,
Vanished among the embers as it came:—
	I touched the lips of Memory with mine!

And then a man with steadfast eyes aglow
	With purpose and perception newly born,
Plighted man’s faith beneath the mistletoe,
	Such faith as falters not when it is sworn.
I knew him for the one that I had been


And that no spell can make me evermore,
Half way the rooms of love and life between,
	With eager hand upon the yieldingdoor.
So Summer on the fabric of my dream
	An instant in the embers seemed to shine,
Then faded in the fullness of its gleam:—
	I touched the lips of Memory with mine!

The vision changed. The mistletoe at last,
	Hung o’er the zenith of my phantom life;
Midst little crowding faces from the past,
	Stood one who smiled, and one who whispered
		“Wife!”
For thus I was and thus, alas, were they
	Whose eyes an instant laughed into my own:
But, as I leaned anear to bid them stay,
Grew dim, and so once more was I alone!
With childish voices echoant again,
	Ripe Autumn sped, like bubbles on her wine,
And, as the embers grayed and gloomed, in vain
	I sought the lips of Memory with mine!

A moment turned she, and, with clouded eyes,
	Sought mine across the ever deepening gloom,
And then as smoke against the darkness dies,
	I saw her pass in silence from the room.
Ah, fire of life, how swiftly then you downed
	To ashes of what was, and is no more;
As if that she, calm-eyed and ashen-gowned,
	Had been but shifting moonlight on the floor!
Old—old—and Winter, withered, wan and white,
	Had come to close the seasons’ laughing line;—
Yet, ere the embers died to dark, tonight
	I touched the lips of Memory with mine!
				GUY WETMORE CARRYL.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A HAPPY AFTERNOON.
	Sister Johanna Nystrom, of the Twen-
tieth Ward, of this city, gave a delightful
dinner party to the aged and infirm widows
of the ward, on Thursday, November 21
1901.
	The day chosen by Sister Nystrom for
the occasion was the fifty-seventh anniver-
sary of her departed husband.
	The presidency of the Relief Society of
the ward, being in attendance, by request
of the hostess, took charge of the social
part of the entertainment. Twenty-three
guests were present, while a few who had
been invited were absent on account of
illness.
	Some of the favorite songs of Zion were
sung, prayer was offered and earnest heart-
felt testimonies were borne by each of the
sisters in turn, telling of many touching
experiences, and how the blessings of the
Lord follow those who trust, and strive
to serve Him.
	Portions of the time were also filled in
with pleasant conversation, and several
interesting recitations were given.
	The oldest one present was Sister Adam-
son, who is in her eighty fifth year.
	At five o’clock the company sat down to a
fine, old-fashioned dinner, a “regular
Thanksgiving dinner,” as the youngest
lady of the party expressed it. A leading
feature of the repast was fat, tender, home
raised chicken, cooked as “mother used to
do it.” And there was an abundant
variety of viands, all following harmon-
iously in the same sensible, healthful line.
	After dinner the impromptu program
was continued. Speeches, recitations and
singing were again called for, and to every
call a cordial response was cheerfully given.
Many grateful thanks and prayers for con-
tinued blessings were warmly expressed to
Sister Nystrom for her generous hospital-
ity, and pleasing memories of Brother
Nystrom’s kindness to the poor during his
lifetime were related by several of the
guests.
	At an early hour the party closed with
benediction and the ladies went home with
feelings of satisfaction and peace not soon
to be forgotten.
		L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	Minutes of Ladies’ Semi-Monthly meeting,
held October 26, 1901, in the Fourteenth
Ward Hall, Counselor E. J. Stevenson
presiding.
	Opened by singing, “Glorious things
are sung of Zion.” Prayer by H. A.
Badger. Singing, “Now let us rejoice.”
Minutes read and approved.
	Counselor Stevenson read part of the
hymn, “Now let us rejoice,” and made re-
marks on the same. Urged all to live
according to the lessons taught therein.
Believed we would have faith enough to
keep the commandments of God if we live
for them. Let us live so that we can have
a claim upon the Lord. Spoke of the faith
of Sister Zina D. H Young. Bore a testi-
mony of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
	Sister Julia C. Howe said Satan has
great power, thought we should throw safe-
guards around our young people. Loved
those who serve the Lord. Though it
might make some jealousy, felt to sustain
the authorities Felt we had prophetesses
among us. and she had been healed by
them.
	Sister Brown said we come to meeting to
get food for the soul. Was thankful she
knew where to go to get comfort for her
soul, and was thankful for the love that
exists among the sisters.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon felt we ought to
lift up our hearts for one another that the
speakers may be inspired of the Lord to
give us those things that may increase our
faith and love for one another. Cautioned
all to guard their tongues against injuring
one another. Said she had visited the
Relief Society in Kansas and also visited
Nauvoo. Spoke of the good the Relief.
Society are doing there, and how they are
appreciated by the missionaries. Felt we
should comfort each other; love and kind-
ness is the duty of every one. Draw our
children to us, and let us try to improve in
doing good every day. Let those around
us see exemplary women in us.
	Sister Brazier bore a testimony of the
Gospel and Joseph Smith.
	Sister Keddington bore a testimony and
thanked the Lord for the truth.
	Sister Martha Morris sang a hymn,
assisted by the congregation, and also bore
her testimony.
	Sister Webb felt we should be thankful
for the blessing the Gospel brings us. We
must labor for these blessings or we cannot
get them, our example goes farther than
anything else. How thankful we ought to
be that we know we have a Father in
heaven who hears and answers our prayers.
Spoke of Temple work, and said remember
our covenants and be faithful to them.
	Sister Mary L. Morris felt to bless the
sisters.
	Sister F. Smith said it was fifty years since
she joined the Church. She was the first
of her family, but there were two hundred
belonging now. She had been a counselor
in Relief Society work thirty years.
	Congregation sang “How firm a found-
ation.”
	Sister Harvey felt the Spirit of God was
present. Knew this was the true Church
of God, realized the work was progressing.
	Sister J. S. Woolley spoke of the quali-
fications of a mother.
	Sister Harvey spoke of President A. H.
Lund as being loved in his own home,
Ephraim.
	Sister Phelps said we do not comprehend

[Column 2]
our blessings. We are like children. It is
plain to see these are the last days and the
Lord is preparing His children to receive
Him. Said much will be performed before
that day.
	Sister Wright did not know where to
begin to thank the Lord for her blessings.
Spoke of the love she had for Brother
Lund. Knew the Lord inspired His ser-
vants.
	Sister Irvine spoke of the great work
being done by the Y. L. M. I. A., referred
to Brother Grant’s work in Japan, and of
his daughter Lucy being called to Colorado
on a mission. Thought we as mothers
were responsible for our children’s charact-
ers. Let us speak of the good in one
another, never allow slander in our pres-
ence.
	Sister H. A. Badger felt to thank the
Lord for her blessings. Was strengthened
by attending her meetings; felt we should
visit the aged.
	Sister Stevenson said President Kimball
said time would be so shortened it would
not be half long enough in the last days.
Admonished the mothers to be watchful of
their children, mothers do not appreciate
their mission in having the sons and
daughters of God. Influence by example
and read Sec 27, Doctrine and Covenants.
Said it was promised the Saints in Big
Horn county that if in each home they
would sing a hymn, read a chapter and
offer prayer each day their children would
never go astray.
	Adjourned for four weeks. Singing,
Doxology. Benediction, Sister Mary P.
Silver.
			J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.


RESOLUTIONS OF SYMPATHY
		TO AUNT ZINA.

Resolutions of respect to the memory of our
	greatly beloved sister, Zina D. H. Young,
	by the officers and members of the Relief
	Society of the Baker Ward, Oregon.

	Inasmuch as our Heavenly Father has deemed
it prudent to summon from our midst to a heaven-
ly and exalted sphere our beloved sister and wise
counselor, Zina D. H. Young. President of the
Relief Society in all the world, whose congenial
influence and motherly counsel have stimulated so
many thousands to nobler acts, to purer thoughts
to a greater determination to be valiant workers
in our Father’s kingdom. Therefore, be it
	Resolved, That we, her co-laborers in this great
work of love, express our appreciation of her
counsel, her example and her love of the divine
which were manifested so prominently in all her
labors that we have enjoyed by our association
with her.
	And by these resolutions we testify of her exem-
plary life, her devotion to truth, her lovable and
tender nature and her integrity to every trust re-
posed in her. Truly the world has been made
better by the presence of such a noble spirit as
“Aunt Zina,” and the good effects of her labors
even in this sphere, are not yet ended, for as the
poet truly said, “While the mortal dust is buried
in the tomb, the character still walks the earth.”
	So it is with this noble character. She will con-
tinue to live in our memories.
	May we emulate her noble example and by the
same sweet spirit she possessed, live worthy to
meet her again in holy companionship. And be
it further
	Resolved, That these resolutions be placed upon
our society records and a copy be sent to the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publication.
	Adopted at a meeting of the Relief Society of
the Baker Ward, Union Stake of Zion, Septem-
ber 19, 1901.
				MARY B. EARDLEY,
				JOSEPHINE STOKER,
							Committee.


Miss Sorabji, a Parsee woman, lately
gave a talk upon India at Smith College.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SARAH E. CARMICHAEL.
A REQUIEM FOR THE DEPARTED UTAH POETESS
A requiem for the dead—
	The dead of many years!
Her brilliant spirit faltered, failed and fled,
	To “ashes” and unavailing tears.

The gifted singer faded.
	Her soul was hushed to silence here.
Too tense the strain for earthly casket, jaded,
	A broken lyre, those strings that thrilled our
		ear.

One of the grand immortals—
	Peers were but few and they unknown:
Her genius opened wide those shining portals
	Forever barred save to the touch they own.

There dwell the spirit singers,
	Whose songs and music were of old.
To earth they came with well-trained vibrant
		fingers,
	“Lest we forget” and perish by earth’s cold.

When silent dead, or dying
	’Mid chill of circumstances testing,
That inspiration all uncrushed is trying
	Wherever it may be, for final resting.

The dear one now—the sainted,
	Will sing again with gift supernal, 
Forgetting that on earth she ever fainted
	Among the poet singers crowned eternal!
					HENRY W. NAISBITT.


NINETEEN ONE.

Our dear old Nineteen One, is flitting surely on.
With noiseless pinions, to the infinite beyond!
The purest joys and hopes deep sorrows, pains
	and fears
Have joined the thronging scenes, of other by-
	gone years.

Ere the silent curtain falls on the pulseless year,
I’d send just one more token, beloved friends to
	cheer,
A sweet and tender message from a loving heart,
With hope of a reunion, never more to part.

Now ere the old years’ bell, shall toll the parting
	knell,
I’d breath most fervent pray’rs, for those I love so
	well,
And crave the kind protection of Father’s potent
	arm,
Forever to enclasp them—shield them from all
	harm.

As the boundless ocean in Times eternal round,
Shall strew the pearls of life upon the sandy
	ground,
May eager hearts and hands, encompass all that’s
	good;
Faith, happiness and truth, be taken at the flood.

Oh now good bye! Farewell! thou surely dying
	year!
Ah! thou hath brought to us many a bitter tear—
The roses too, have bloomed, along our wander-
	ing way—
Sweet flowers of faith and love to brighten ev’ry
	day.

E’en yet, old year, we hold thee still in fond em-
	brace.
Reluctantly we turn new paths, and seem to
	trace,
Now as the new one follows closely in thy wake—
Speak kindly words for us, for old companion’s
	sake.
					ELLIS R. SHIPP.


Mrs. Livermore at the last meeting of
the Massachusetts Woman’s Suffrage
Association spoke emphatically on the duty
of women to keep their engagements, and
not to let themselves be appointed on a com-
mittee to do something and then neglect to
do it. “Make yourself responsible for one
thing, and then do it if you die for it,” she
said. “I did not want to come today, (it
was a very inclement afternoon) I was fol-
lowed to the door of my house with prophe-
cies of pneumonia, but I was advertized to
speak and I am here. If I have any repu-
tation, it is for keeping my promises.”


[Column 1]
EMMA HALE SMITH.
	Among the great and noble minded women
who have been connected with our Church is
Emma Smith, first wife of the Prophet
Joseph Smith.
	She was born near the year 1803, in
Susquehanna Co., Penn. She grew up to
be a good, virtuous, high-minded girl.
When but a young woman, she met the
Prophet, who, in 1825, while he was
working for a man by the name of Stoal,
came to board with her parents, Mr. and
Mrs. Isaac Hale. The Prophet and this
very worthy young woman became very
much attached to each other, and Mr. Hale
was asked to give his consent to their mar-
riage, but he objected to their union be-
cause he was prosperous while the Smith
family had lost all their property.
	Sister Emma was tall and stately, and
was what might be termed a magnificent
looking woman. It was during the last
year of Joseph’s waiting for the plates be-
fore he and Emma were married. They
were married January, 18, 1827, by Squire
Tarbill, at that gentleman’s residence,
South Bainbridge, New York.
	Immediately after their marriage Joseph
left the employ of Mr. Stoal and returned
to his parent’s home at Manchester, New
York State, taking with him a beautiful
bride. During the succeeding summer he
worked to obtain means for his family and
his great mission, for it was near the time
for the promise which had been made to
him to be fulfilled.
	It was on September 22, 1827, that
Joseph Smith received the plates at the
“Hill Cumorah,” from the angel Moroni.
The angel was at his side and bade him
stretch forth his hand and take these
precious records from their long hiding
place. As he lifted them to the surface he
was thrilled with divine joy. The angel
after giving him instructions left him.
	Persecutions were now heaped upon him,
men were lurking by his pathway to take
his life and obtain the plates. Their
plans were always thwarted, but the peace
and quiet that was needed to perform the
labor of translating the plates was kept
from him, so he decided to go to the home
of Emma’s parents in Pennsylvania, where
he might perform his heaven-appointed
work.
	While at the home of her parents in the
month of July, 1828, a son was born to
them, but the babe died after a brief time,
leaving the mother at death’s door. Four
sons were afterwards born to them, their
names being Joseph, Frederick, Alexander
and David, Julia being an adopted
daughter.
	At this the Prophet was compelled to
give his time up to toil for the needs of his
household, and he went forth to labor,
humbly and uncomplainingly. As his
manual labor was ended each day he would
devote his evenings to the work of trans-
lating, his young wife aiding him by writ-
ing at his dictation.
	In July, 1830, in Susquehanna Co.,
Penn., the Lord gave Emma a revelation
through the Prophet. It is recorded in the
Doctrine and Covenants, Sec. 25, and in
accordance with this revelation she com-
piled the first Latter-day Saints hymn
book.
	When the Prophet obeyed the principle
of plural marriage, Emma gave her hus-
band four wives. The four women lived

[Column 2]
in the Mansion House at Nauvoo with
Emma.
	May 6, 1842, an attempt was made to
assassinate L. W. Boggs, Governor of
Missouri. Orrin P. Rockwell and Joseph
Smith were charged with the crime and
arrested, but were afterwards given their
liberty. The Prophet was now hiding
from his enemies and Emma had declared
her willingness to share her husband’s
exile As this plan of exile was abandoned
she offered to visit Governor Carlin, of Ill.,
and lay before him Joseph’s case. In
answer to this proposition the Prophet
wrote to her telling her not to go to the
Governor as he was no friend to the Saints,
but she might write to him. With this
permission to write Emma addressed a
dignified communication to the Governor,
in which she called upon him by virtue of
his position as an officer, and by every
sense of manliness to spare Joseph and
the Saints in Nauvoo from unjust persecu-
tion This letter alone is sufficient to
demonstrate that Emma was a woman of
superior ability and that she had an exal-
ted appreciation and love for her husband.
	Sister Emma Smith was a good, kind,
loving woman, and respected her husband.
She was very kind to the Saints, always
trying to comfort the sick and afflicted, and
clothe the poor.
	Sister Emma’s home was indeed a home
at all times for the unfortunate Saints.
	Although the Prophet Joseph obeyed the
commandment of the Lord in regard to
plural marriage and took a number of
wives after his first love, Emma, he still
loved her with an undying love, as is
shown in the following speech when one of
his wives spoke to him in a complaining
manner of Emma. The Prophet turned to
her and said “If you desire my love you
must never speak evil of Emma.”
	After the death of Joseph Smith the
Prophet, Emma married a Mr. Bidamon
and died in Nauvoo, Ill., April 30, 1879.
			LUCY M. WRIGHT.


RESOLUTION. 
	Adopted by the National Council of Women
at the Triennial held in Buffalo, Septem-
ber, 1901.

	Resolution on the death of Mrs. Zina D. 
H. Young:
	Resolved, that the National Council of 
Women recognizes in the death of Mrs. Zina
D. Young, President of the Relief Corps, a 
loss that will be severely felt by the Society 
over which she so long and acceptably pre-
sided. 
	The Council extends to the Relief Society
an expression of its tender sympathy in its
bereavement, together with the hope that 
the Society may in the crisis be guided to the 
election of a successor, under whose leader-
ship its work may be not only continued but
extended.
	The Council recognizes in the Relief 
Society one of its most loyal members, and 
realizes that to Mrs. Young’s broad views
the relationship of the W. R S. to the N. 
C. of W. is largely due.


Miss Palit, a native of Hindu, stood at
the head of B. A. Candidates for degrees at
Calcutta University this year in a list of a
thousand.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00 one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal di-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, CHRISTMAS NUMBER.


[Column 1]
CHRISTMAS THOUGHTS.
	This year has been one of thrilling
events and must occasion some serious reflec-
tions, and now as it draws towards its
close, and the Holiday time comes near,
we cannot but take a retrospective view of
the past, and recall what this first year of
the new century has brought about. To
attempt giving it in detail would fill
volumes; even here in Utah many im-
portant things have taken place, and one
may say, too, that much has been accom-
plished in many directions.
	This is the time of the year when one
wishes to look upon the bright side of
things and take a cheerful view of the pres-
ent, knowing that a kind Providence has
vouchsafed many blessings to us who
dwell here in these peaceful vales, as
well as all mankind, and we should not be
unmindful of each other, and our children
ought to have a realizing sense of the
gratitude they owe to their Heavenly 
Father for all His goodness, and that we
are permitted to enjoy such a multiplicity
of the good things of this life; and if there
are those who are in sorrow or in want,
they should be sought out and comforted
and made happy, as far as human aid can
reach in soothing their afflictions or grief.
	The golden rule is always a guide for the
Saints to follow, to do to others as we
would have them do unto us, will bring
more true happiness than any other course
of action.
	Christmas is generally given up almost
wholly to the children, and they are the
ones to receive all the benefits or gifts
Santa Claus may or can bring. They dream
of him for weeks beforehand, and long im-
patiently for the time to come.
	We look on and rejoice to see so much
happiness; and yet some of us at least can-
not help feeling that in this day and age
many of the customs and practices observed
are tending towards selfishness and extrava-
gance. If we talk about it, it is not always
acceptable, and the saying, “Times have
changed,” is alluded to, and “Do let the
children enjoy themselves once a year; there
will be sober realities enough later on,”
and such like sayings. And so we join in
the merriment of the little people, and let
them believe in the Santa Claus myth often
instead of letting them know the truth of
the origin of the day, and what it means to
the world in which we live.
	It is well, perhaps, that there is a time
set apart, (call it by what name you will)

[Column 2]
in which people feel they should remember
one another, or it may be the selfishness
that has become so apparent in the latter
times might get the upper hand of man-
kind altogether. And, therefore, one can-
not help thinking Christmas and holiday
week a blessing, even though some
excesses or extravagances are indulged in,
or some people go to extremes in one way
or another.
	Parents are anxious to make the children
happy, and the older children at least,
should be just as desirous of contributing to
the joy of the parents. To be loving,
obedient and grateful towards those who
are older or in any way the benefactors, and
especially to parents, is far more acceptable
and happifying than gifts. The gift of
love is the greatest of all, and where there
is generous love, gifts are of comparatively
little consequence. Gentle words and
kindly acts, a smiling countenance and a
desire to make others happy by sweetness
and gracious manner, are far better in the
young people than the choicest gifts with-
out these beautiful manifestations of
nobility of soul.
	Yet the world lauds those who can give
of their wealth, and thinks little of those
who have only kindness and heavenly
charity to bestow.
	Yet we must not rail against the world or
abuse the people, for, after all, it is a pretty
good world. 
	Long years ago one of the greatest and
grandest of men wrote in an album this
sentiment: “Notwithstanding all that is
said about it, this is a grand old world.”
	So let us make the best of it we can each
of us, and help to create happiness and
every other possible good, and be grateful
for all blessings and benefits; and teach it to
the children, everybody’s children, as oppor-
tunity presents.
	Ingratitude is the sister and handmaid of
pride; on the contrary gratitude is pleasing
in the sight of God, and is akin to humility,
which is a stranger to pride. When one is
grateful it is in itself a compensation that is
worth possessing; worth striving for—it
banishes selfishness. Do we appreciate as
we should the blessings of our daily lives?
and above all are we grateful for all the
benefits and gifts of God? Do we teach
these things as we should? Are we not all
lacking in this respect? It is to Him we
owe all! Every hour we should devote to
His service, not only on occasions, but con-
secrate all our lives, our talents to Him, and
the work He has established for the redemp-
tion of the human race.
	Light has come into the world and the
Saints who have seen and known of it should
not be slow to spread the glad tidings of
great joy revealed in this day and age of the
world, and the children of the Latter-day
Saints have double reason to rejoice—and
yet how few comparatively, think of these
unmeasured blessings.
	A grand dinner and amusements are the
order of the day at Christmas time, all good
in their place when sweetened with gratitude.
	The family gatherings during the holidays
are happy occasions, and especially if devoted
to kindly converse, and the social enjoyment
that strengthens the ties of relationship, and
binds closer together the hearts and souls of
kindred and friends. One needs these way-
side rests on the toilsome journey of life,
and therefore one need be grateful for the
holiday time, if the work is not, or even if it
is harder, than at other times. For the

[Column 3]
mother it very often is, and yet she may have
recompense in the joy she gives to her
household and the comfort to her own
heart. And so one may say again with the
poet:

	“Bring in great logs and let them lie,
	To make a solid core of heat.
	Be cheerful-minded, talk and treat.”
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
	“We keep the day with festal cheer.”

	In this day of coal and gas and electricity
one does not see so much the open fire of
great logs, or of pine knots, and sometimes
older people think half the pleasure is lost in
sitting in heated rooms unable to look at the
open fireplace, that always seemed so bright
and cheerful and has so many memories con-
nected with it, that are dear to the heart.
The poet of today will scarcely be able to
sing of the hearthstone round which the
family gather at eventide to chat and sing.
“Ring out the old, ring in the new,” is
applicable in many ways nowadays, but if
only the conditions change for the better, one
should not regret the innovations that are
made upon old-fashioned methods and ways
of living.
	May this be a happy Christmas, with peace
and goodwill and plenty for all—that the
hearts of the poor may be made glad, that
there may be no suffering for food or raiment
in this goodly land, and faith and confidence
may increase among the Saints, and may
that good fellowship which manifests itself in
deeds of benevolence abound and the charity
which is long-suffering and kind, and faith
and love grow stronger until each one can love
his neighbor as himself according to the words
of the blessed Savior whose birth men and
women profess to celebrate.


WEDDING ANNIVERSARY.
	Mr. and Mrs. Andrew Jenson kept their
fifteenth wedding anniversary in a very
sociable and pleasant way by inviting a few
of their friends to dinner on the 10th of
December, at their residence in the Seven-
teenth Ward. About fifty people were
entertained at table, President Joseph F.
Smith and wife seated at the head and near
them Pres. A. H. Lund and Pres. B. W.
Smith, next Mrs. E. B. Wells and opposite
Mr. and Mrs. J. McDonald. There were
too many guests to mention by name, but of
those who added greatly to the pleasure and
enjoyment of the company assembled were
Mr. George Margetts, with his funny songs,
and in loftier strains Mrs. Christina and Miss
Judith Anderson and the Misses Jenson.
	Brother Jenson in his travels around the
world few years ago collected and brought
home many curiosities illustrative of
countries where he traveled that are very
interesting and with which his guests are
always highly entertained. The evening
was very enjoyable.


BIRTHDAY BANQUET.
	The birthday of Mrs. Esther Bunnell, one
of the veteran Mothers in Israel, was cele-
brated on Monday, December 16, with a
sumptuous banquet arranged in her honor by
her daughters and other members of her
family. Mrs. Bunnell herself looked the
veritable queen, and she was toasted by one
or two of the party as Queen Esther. She
wore a dainty cap of the purest white lace
trimmed with ribbon, and her face shone
beautifully underneath the dainty lace ruffes.
	The party was given in Dr. Romania B.
Pratt’s rooms in the Constitution Building


The table was decorated with carnations and 
ferns and the fine linen and handsome china
and luxurious repast made a goodly and
inviting appearance. A large fruit cake
frosted and ornamented, which told in figures
the age of the reverend lady, adorned
the centre of the table. At the head of the
table the venerable lady herself was seated
and at her right her daughter, Romania,
(the famous woman doctor) and at her left
her daughter Josephine, (Mrs. Hardy)
grandsons and granddaughters-in-law, grand-
daughters and husbands, and one or two
guests, including President C. W. Penrose,
editor Deseret News, Mrs. Elizabeth Pen-
rose and the writer.
	Mrs. Bunnell has now reached her eighty-
seventh anniversary and is indeed a remark-
ably well preserved woman. The writer ex-
tends to her not only the usual compliments
of the season, but every good wish and
blessing she can possible desire in this life
and joys innumerable in the celestial world,
surrounded with her loved ones, and she de-
serves it all, for her life work and sacrifices
have entitled her to eternal happiness.
	What could be more beautiful than such a
life and at its close calmness and contentment?


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	We are proud to acknowledge and with
gratitude, the gift of a new book just from
the press, “Rhymlets In Many Moods,” by
one of our Utah poets. Brother H. W.
Naisbitt, who only recently returned from a
mission. Brother Naisbitt has been well
known to the people here as one of our very
best writers, and we sincerely congratulate
him on the appearance of his book just at
Xmas time, hoping for him a financial suc-
cess. “The Home Circle Series” he has
designated as a sub title should give it pres-
tige with our home lovers, and we trust the
book will find its way into every home-circle
in Utah. We have not yet had time to
examine its contents but will give an opinion
upon the subject later. Meantime we can
conscientiously recommend it knowing as
we do the ability of the author and his
sterling qualities of mind and heart.
	The Daughters of the Revolution cele-
brated the anniversary of the Boston tea
party at the home of Mrs. W. J. Beatie,
whose parlors were handsomely decorated
for the occasion. A fine engraving of Gen.
Washington occupied a conspicuous place,
draped with the stars and stripes. Mrs. 
Clarissa S. Williams, the Regent, was present
again after her serious illness and presided
with her usual dignity. Some business was
attended to and Mrs. Mary A. H. Cannon’s
paper was read, the subject being the close
of the war and some of the men who
were most famous in establishing the new
government, and brief mention of the great
American Tea Party and the visits of mem-
bers to the old South Church, etc. Refresh-
ments were Dutch and the china used also
the old Dutch ware. A very large and
handsomely ornamented fruit cake was given
by Mrs. Eliza Titcomb and was cut and
served to the guests, also candies after the
substantial Dutch repast.	It was one of the
most pleasant afternoons the society has en-
joyed. Two distinguished guests were pres-
ent by invitation, Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith
and Mrs. Sarah Jenne Canoon.


Chauncey M. Depew gives the women
credit for a large share in the defeat of
Tammany.


[Column 1]
EMMA LUCY GATES.
	The good and noble women who read
this precious little messenger the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT, are no doubt interested in the
little girl who has pleased people in Utah
so much in the last month by her singing
	The mothers in Israel would not ask
what can she sing, who was her teacher,
nor what is to be her future professional
career? but they would gather about her
and inquire, “My dear, do you say your
prayers? Are you trying to live your
religion?”
	Little Lulu, as she is familiarly called
by those who love her, was born in St.
George in 1880, being the oldest child of
Jacob F. and Susa Young Gates.  Her
grandfather on her father’s side, Elder
Jacob Gates, is an historical figure in early
Church history. He was one of the old
Puritan stock, and was of Zion’s camp,
and was a trusted friend of the Prophet
Joseph, and later the Prophet Brigham
He was since president for some years of
the first seven Presidents of Seventies, and
filled many important public trusts. He
was a good singer and when he was eighty
years old his clear old voice made sweet
music out of “Mrs Lofty had a carriage,
none had I.” His third wife, Emma
Farsberry, is a sweet little English
woman of good breeding, and she, too, was an
excellent singer, and sang in the “Leicester
Choir,” and she is, too, like her husband,
a faithful Latter-day Saint. On the
maternal side President Brigham Young is
the grandparent, and his wife, Lucy
Bigelow Young, is one of the greatest and
humblest women who ever tabernacled in
the flesh.
	Lulu, then, had her full right in being
well born Her father was a born musician
who played as a boy, everything from a
Jew’s harp to a drum. He organized a
boys’ band when he was ten years old, he
playing the lead cornet. No place on earth
has so much native musical talent as Utah,
and it is only opportunity which is lacking
to bring out this wealth of talent. Lucy’s
mother inherited the musical gifts belong-
ing to the Young family, and could play
the piano as soon as she could read. She
was the founder of the Musical De-
partment in the Brigham Young Ac-
ademy in 1878; but with other cares,
like many young mothers, she dropped her
active musical work.
	The little girl came to Provo with her
parents in 1882 and in 1885 went to the
Sandwich Islands on a four years’ mission
with them.
	When Lulu was three months old, Sisters
Eliza R. Snow and Zina D. H. Young
paid a visit to St. George and while there
they gave the babe a beautiful blessing.
This was treasured by the mother and re-
peated to the child as she grew in years
and understanding.
	When on the Sandwich Islands mission,
a deep and abiding friendship was formed
between President Joseph F Smith and
wife, Julina, and the family of Brother
Jacob F. Gates. After the sudden death of
Lulu’s two brothers on this mission, Lulu
seemed stricken with the same disease; all
night long President Smith and the parents
hung over the little girl administering and
giving her what simple remedies were
obtainable. And all night long as these
strong men would falter in their faith, and
ask each other with eye or lip, “Must she,
too, go?” the child would look up with

[Column 2]
firm conviction and say, “I’m not going to
die, papa; don’t you remember Aunt Eliza
Snow promised me I should grow up and
be a mother in Israel?” And her faith pre-
vailed.
	She has always been musical; at two
years old she sang many little songs and
soon found the piano keys to match the
time. At four she had found the chords
for every key on the piano. She was taken
to the Sandwich Islands at this age and
there picked up guitar playing. She sang,
played and danced for Queen Kapiolani,
when that lady visited Laie and her par-
ents were invited to bring her to the
Palace. But they felt then and after to
shrink from pushing the child into public
notice, both for her sake and their own.
Children are ruined too often, mentally
and physically, by over-stimulation
	Many people wonder today how it is
that this girl has sprung into such sudden
public notice; it is because her wise parents
knew that maturity is the only safe time to
throw genius out into public life. They
knew she was gifted, and she and they
have made many sacrifices to develop
those gifts. Admiration is hard enough to
bear when the character is fully formed.
	With this thought fully in mind, the
little girl was kept quietly at home, and
most carefully taught the art of dress-
making and housekeeping. She is as
gifted with the needle and with the cook-
stove as she is with voice or piano keys.
	Above all things her parents have
struggled to teach her and all their children
to love the Gospel and its every principle;
not one principle, whether it be in active
practice or not, has been neglected in her
training. True, she has some faults,
which even the best of our girls must
inherit, but she loves the Lord and tries to
serve Him.
	When her married sister, Mrs. Leah E.
Widtsoe went to Germany in 1897, she
begged the parents to allow Lulu to
accompany her that she might carry for-
ward her musical education. Lulu had
good music teachers. Her first teacher,
and she was a most excellent one, was a
Provo Mormon girl, Mrs. Lillie Roberts
De Lorey. A sound musical foundation
was thus laid, and while under Mrs. De
Lorey, at thirteen years of age, Lulu took
the prize for instrumental music in the
first great Salt Lake Eisteddfod in 1893.
Her next teacher was Professor J. J.
McClellan, who was likewise a most
superior teacher and musician. It was
from him that she went away to Germany
with Brother and Sister Widstoe.
	She could always sing, too, she sang the
scale before she was two years old; but she
was not encouraged to tax her voice, as
she was a frail child and health and poise
were the objects sought for by her parents
for this nervous and high-strung child of
theirs. She was kept away from giddy
pleasures, and early hours and long sleeps
were the rule. No corset was ever upon
her form, and no tea nor coffee were ever
used in the house.
	In all their plans none thought of public
life for this little Mormon girl. To culti-
vate her talents, and then to use them at
home to comfort and delight her people,
these were the ambitions and aims of all.
	After she had been in Europe for one
year it became necessary for her to leave
her sister, who was about to travel. What
could be done?


In this crisis her grandmother, Lucy B.
Young, whose generous financial assistance
had made it possible for the girl to go in
the first place, offered to go over and stay
as long as was necessary.
	Sister Young went with the famous party
of women who attended the International
Council of Women in London, and here
Lulu came from Germany to greet both
her grandmother and her mother and
cousin, D. H. Y. McAllister. The Council
was a wonderful episode to all.
	After it was over Lulu and her mother
and her grandmother went to Berlin and
here Lulu was soon established in the
Royal Conservatory of Music.
	The girl always maintained that her
voice was her forte and not the piano, and
at last it was decided that she should
center her studies upon the voice.
	Before leaving Utah President George
Q. Cannon had given her a blessing in
which he promised her that she should
attain perfection in her art, and that her
teachers should indeed think she was gifted
of God.” How wonderfully that promise was
fulfilled, no one can tell so well as Lulu
herself.
	She was shown every kindness and
attention.  She was crowded ahead and
invited to join the King’s own choir; and
while with them she sang in the palace be-
fore the Kaiser and all the assembled
court.  No attention was lacking, yet the
girl felt that the German method of teach-
ing vocal music was ruining her soft and
sweet yet not heavy voice. So after [-]ast-
ing and prayer, her grandmother and she
decided that it would be best to leave the
school and her kind teacher who had been
so gracious to her.  It was a trial, for her
teacher never again acknowledged her.  But
she left.
	By the leading of a kind Providence she
was taken to the finest teacher in Berlin,
Mme. Blanche Corelli, a daughter of
Hermann, the Austrian predestigatuer,
and a famous Austrian Court singer, Rosa
Chiclloc.  This teacher soon developed an
ardent love for the girl, and devoted her-
self to her progress.  Surely her blessing
was fulfilled.  Lulu and her teacher worked
hard, so hard, but the reward was sweet.
For God did add his blessing.
	Lulu tells a dream which she had while
away, struggling, toiling, and knowing no
pleasure, but work, work.  Someday
may be she will write it for the EXPONENT.
What she would have done without her
dear, wise grandmother’s help and presence
no one can tell!
	She has come home at the bidding of her
parents as any good girl would.  And she
is now about to start out on a concert tour
for three months under the most famous
manager on earth, Major J. B. Pond.  But
her mother goes with her and so does the
counsel and blessing of President Joseph
F. Smith with all others interested.  She
does not go to win fame or money; yet she
may have both. But all the future as well
as the past is with that kind Father who
has sent her here to do a certain work as
He has sent all of us.
	Dear sisters, she will need your faith
and prayers and so will her anxious
mother; will you give them without money,
without price?
				A FRIEND


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Marie Correlli, the authoress, has started
a movement to organize Shakespeare clubs
over the entire world.


[Column 1]
		  GRANITE STAKE.

	The sixth quarterly conference of the
Relief Society of the Granite Stake of Zion
was held at Big Cottonwood, Tuesday,
November 12, 1901, President Emma S.
Woodruff presiding.
	The choir and congregation sang “Praise
to the man.” The opening prayer was
offered by President Emily W. Stevenson.
Singing, “The Spirit of God like a fire is
burning."
	There were present of the General Relief
Society. President Bathsheba W. Smith,
Annie T. Hyde, her first Counselor, and
Emmeline B. Wells, secretary, President
M. Isabella Horne, of the Salt Lake Stake,
Sisters Mary Freeze and Helen W. Wood-
ruff, of the Y. L. M. I. A. Board, Sister
Margaret P. Young, Bishop S. A. Casto
and Elder William Taylor.
	The secretary called the roll, showing
all the Stake officers present and represen-
tatives from every ward except one. Min-
utes of morning session of previous confer-
ence read and approved.
	President Emma S. Woodruff kindly
welcomed the sisters and brethren and felt
blest to have so many of the leading sisters
with us today. Called for verbal reports
from the wards.
	President Sarah B. Gibson reported
Sugar Ward; Counselor Mary Ellen Sper-
ry, Farmers Ward; President Petriua Jen-
son, Forest Dale; President Mary B.
Hamilton, Mill Creek; Secretary Amelia
King, East Mill Creek; President Emily
W. Stevenson, Big Cottonwood; President
Mary Rawlins, South Cottonwood.
	Most of these sisters spoke of the increase
of membership in their respective branches,
their desire to store grain, aiding of the
missionaries and the union that existed
among them.
	President M. Isabella Horne: “My dear
brothers and sisters, I am very happy this
morning as I feel that I am among my
children and that I am their mother. I
know you have such a good president. I
have known her for many years. I know
her to be a steadfast and energetic woman.
We are laying up treasures in heaven, for
this is a charity work, clothing the naked,
feeding the poor, comforting and caring for
the sick. I am sorry there are not more
identified in the Relief Society. The books
are to be opened, and we are to be judged
out of the books; also the tithing books, we
should have our names enrolled therein. I
am thankful today for the events that are
transpiring. I am thankful that I have
lived to see President Joseph F. Smith
President of this Church. I feel that the
times need such a vigorous character. To-
morrow will be his birthday, he will be
sixty-three years old.” She spoke of the
perilous times at the time of his birth, and
the hardships and privations that his
mother and the Saints had passed through.
“And now,” said she, “President Joseph
F. Smith is at the head of the Church,
where his uncle was.”
	President Emma S. Woodruff said: “Sis-
ters, we all feel that Sister Horne is our
mother.”
	President Bathsheba W. Smith: “I am
pleased to meet the sisters here, also the
brethren. I am always glad to see them.”
Spoke of having been through the good
times and the bad, of the army when she
saw it coming upon the Saints. Felt
satisfied that they could not put down
Mormonism. Referred to the reports of

[Column 2]
the sisters, of the union among them.
“That is what I like to hear,” said Aunt
Bathsheba, “and the putting away of
jealousies and fault-finding is needed in
these days.” Spoke of having felt some-
what worried when President Snow passed
away without having organized the Relief
Society, soon after having a dream con-
cerning the Relief Society and seeing the
Prophet Joseph watching over them. This
satisfied her and she felt that the Prophet
would look after the Relief Society. Refered
to those words of the Prophet in regard to
the power, influence and growth of the
Relief Society. She urged the sisters to
be faithful and not go into bye and forbid-
den paths.
	President Emma W. Woodruff: “Sister
Smith said that she was glad to hear that
the sisters in the wards were so united. I
want to say that the sisters of the Stake
are also united and that I love the sisters
of Granite Stake.”
	“Sunshine in the Soul,” was sung with
feeling, by Miss Beatrice Crismon.
	Sister Helen Woodruff spoke of her
visit with Sister Mary A. Freeze to the
Granite Stake academy. Of the beautiful
spirit which prevailed in the school and
among the teachers and students. Of
the desire to take the counsel of their older
sisters and her love to hear these dear sis-
ters (Aunt Bathsheba and Sister Horne)
speak.
	Bishop S. A. Casto: “My dear sisters
and brethren, I have been pleased to hear
the reports, and especially to hear Sisters
Smith and Horne. I feel that they are our
mothers. I like to be with them and feel
their spirit. I pray the Lord to bless you
all. Amen.”
	Sister Mary Freeze said that she had a
desire to speak and testify of the recent
organization of the Relief Society
and Sister Bathsheba’s dream. Re-
ferred to the remarks of President Woodruff,
“that the eyes of the Prophet were over his
people,” and the words of President
Franklin D. Richards to the sisters, “How
thankful they ought to be that they could
be brought out from the worries and
anxieties of homes into these meetings to
partake of these heavenly influences.”
	Sister Elizabeth Boise: “I desire to
honor and fear God. Without His bless-
ings we could do nothing.” Felt pleased
to see the rising generation go forth and
gain a knowledge of the Gospel. Realized
that the Spirit of God was in our midst to-
day.
	President Emma S. Woodruff: “Sisters,
we wish to dismiss on time. I feel grate-
ful to the sisters for coming out to visit us.
This is their first mission out since their
organization, and I think we ought to re-
member and appreciate it. Sister Crismon’s
song so charmed me. She could not have
sung anything to suit me better.”
	President Emily W. Stevenson announ-
ced that they had provided dinner for all
present.
	After singing, “Guide us, O Thou great
Jehovah,” conference adjourned until two
p. m.
	Afternoon session, President Emma S.
Woodruff presiding. Opened with singing,
“For the strength of the hills.” Prayer
by President Mary Rawlins. Singing,
“Softly beams the sacred dawning.”
Minutes of the afternoon conference of
August 13, read and approved.
	Murray Ward reported by Counselor


(Column 1)
Sarah Ann Brown; Taylorsville, Counselor
Mary P. Brown; Hunter, President Char-
lotte Nielson.
	The reports were spirited and filled with
a desire to continue in the good work.
	Duett, “Sometime We'll Understand,”
sung by Sisters Maggie Hull and Maria B.
Winder, accompanied on the organ by Miss
Mabelle Snow, which was very much
appreciated.
	Counselor Elizabeth H. Park reported
Granger; President Eliza White, Wilford;
Counselor Minnie Myers, Grant.
	All gave in a good report and spoke of
their love for and determination to sustain
our aged sisters, the officers of the General
Board of the Relief Society who had
favored us with their presence today.
	President Emma Woodruff introduced
Sister Emmeline B. Wells as the General
Secretary of the Relief Society.
	Secretary E. B. Wells: “Mrs. President
and ladies, brothers and sisters: “I am
very much interested in Relief Society
work. It certainly is a grand organization.”
Referred to many who had died who had
been cared for and laid out by the Relief
Society sisters, and if there is sickness
among the poor the Relief Society sisters
care for them.	There are so many things
the Relief Society sisters do that are not on
the books. “I consider that the best educa-
tion that I have had, except the Gospel,
is in the Relief Society.	There are fifty
Stakes of Zion, each with a Stake organ-
zation of the Relief Society, besides the
missions.	There is a good society in
Chicago near Nauvoo, where the first Re-
ief Society was organized, and away in
the north Montana and Oregon and
branches in San Francisco, Los Angeles,
Sacramento and one or two smaller places
in California and wherever there is a
branch, there we have a Relief Society
organized.” Spoke of the good it would
do young men who intended going on
missions to visit the Relief Society and
learn something about how they were
managed, as they would likely need this
information when they get in their mission-
ary fields. Thought our young mothers
should attend and bring their babes with
them. “We want to take this work of
training our children into the Relief Society,
and I believe that in the school and in the
home love will do more than anything.
We are told that love will rule the world.
It is said of Aunt Zina that she loved every
one. Mother Whitney said that humility
would bring down the blessing of heaven.”
Made other interesting remarks on the
necessity of our young girls attending
these meetings, felt that they would some
day feel it a great privilege to belong to
the society organized by the Prophet
Joseph. Thought if President Winder
could do the many things he does at his age,
and President Smith preside over so many
organizations our young girls can surely
work in the Relief Society, and not slacken
their energies in their Mutuals.“Our
Woman’s Building I am very anxious
about. We want a place where we can
keep our records. We want a place where
we can have a library and a bureau where
information can be obtained concerning
organizations, and in fact, all information
concerning our church. This work is sure
to increase and I believe that the Relief
Society will increase in all its magnitude as
the Church advances. I ask the Lord to
bless our president, Sister Bathsheba, and

(Column 2)
her counselors and all who are here.”
	A solo was then sung with much feeling
by Sister Maggie Hull.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde: “My dear
sisters, I do appreciate the invitation that I
have received.	I feel that we have had a
feast if we could only realize and put it into
practice.” She gave an interesting account
of her visit to the City of New York and of
the mission in Kansas City, where she
found a noble lot of young missionaries.
“You mothers,” said she, “have occasion
to be proud of them.” Spoke of the feel-
ing like death that came over her when
visiting the City of Nauvoo. Felt thank-
ful and thought what a great blessing to
our people that they were driven out and
permitted to come to a land where they
could broaden and grow. Feft that it was
all in the providence of the Lord. Prayed
that the Lord would bless this organiza-
tion and the new officers.
	President Woodruff called for some of the
missionaries to report briefly of their
missionary work. Sister Louie Stevenson,
from Forest Dale and a missionary from
East Mill Creek bore their testimony and
spoke of the enjoyment they had in mis-
sionary work.
	Brother William Taylor:	“As far as I
am concerned as an individual, I feel that
we have had a feast. We have had beauti-
ful singing and instructions and we have
had the Spirit of the Lord. These are
familiar faces, Sister Horne and Aunt
Bathsheba. These dear sisters have trod-
den paths that will take them back into the
presence of their Father, and thousands
are taking the same path. There is only
one path we can take safely, that is in the
line of our duty. I know that we are
engaged in the work of God and that God
lives, and I know that Joseph Smith was a
prophet of God.
	A song by little Miss Ruthie Stevenson,
accompanied by Miss Hattie Stevenson,
was sweetly sung.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith: “I’ve
been very highly interested in the speaking
and singing, especially, what she said
seemed so innocent and wise. I was not
very old when the Gospel was restored,
but I had a testimony that Brother Joseph
was a true prophet and the Book of Mormon
was true.	And when the armies came up
I knew that they could not put down
Mormonism. I have had great faith in all
our leaders, also all of our sisters, in Sister
Emma when she was president. I believe
they allayed prejudice when she and Sister
Eliza went to see the Governor of Illinois.
I have Sister Eliza’s book that she took
minutes in, and I read it over often. I feel
that the secretaries need to be prayed for as
well as the presidents. Related an incident
of President Young’s life when he saw the
Prophet Joseph and asked him this ques-
tion:	“Brother Joseph, what have you
got for me to say to the people.” “Tell
them to get the Holy Ghost.” Aunt
Bathsheba said that we should not neglect
the dead, and as often as we could should
go to the Temple and work for the dead.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde made some
very interesting remarks concerning her
trip and visit to Washington, and one very
interesting feature was the expressed wish
to her from a congressman of Missouri to
present her to the President of the United
States.
	President Emma S. Woodruff urged the
sisters to visit the strangers when they

(Column 3)
come into their wards and the poor and
destitute. “Aud I am glad,” said she,
“to hear Sister Wells speak about our
young girls and young men visiting the
Relief Society and learning something of
the way they are carried on.” Thanked
the president of the Relief Society, Bishop,
people of the ward and all who have taken
part in any way to make our visit and
meeting interesting. Adjourned the confer-
ence for three months.
	The choir and congregation arose and
sang “Our God we raise to Thee.” Bene-
diction by Bishop S A. Casto.
			ARMEDA S. YOUNG, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


UTAH WOMAN’S PRESS CLUB.

FIRST DECADE OF ITS ORGANIZATION

	The U. W. P. C. was organized October
31, 1891, at the office of the Woman's
Exponent. A number of women writers
met together, as a result of letters which
had been sent to call a meeting.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells was chosen temporary
chairman and Mrs. Julia I. McDonald
secretary pro tem. The permanent organ-
zation was effected, and Mrs. E. B. Wells
was elected President, Susa Y. Gates,
First Vice-President and L. Tula Greene
Richards Second Vice-President, Martha A.
Y. Greenhalgh, Vice-President-at-large,
Annie Wells Cannon Cor. Sec.; Josephine
Spencer, Asst. Cor. Sec.; Dr. Ellis R. Shipp,
Rec. Sec.; Ruth M. Fox, Treasurer; Dr.
Romania B. Pratt, Auditor.
	The name, Utah Woman’s Press Club,
was adopted and the Chair appointed a
committee of three to prepare a constitution
and by-laws. Susa Young Gates of Provo,
Romania B. Pratt, Salt Lake, and Lucy A.
Clark Farmington were the committee.
	It was suggested that at the first meeting
to be held November 30, 1891, each mem-
ber contribute an original article or ad-
dress, or such a selected article as would
further the object for which the club was
organized, or be subject to a fine not to ex-
ceed twenty-five cents.
	The charter members were: E. B. Wells,
Susa Y. Gates, Romania B. Pratt, Ellis R.
Shipp, L. L. Greene Richards, Julia A.
McDonald, Lucy A. Clark and Ruth M. Fox:
	At the meeting held November 30,
Mrs. E. B. Wells made an address and three
original articles and three original poems
were read  They were, first, from the pen
of Susa Y. Gates, “The Local Literary
Field for Women.” A poem, “The
Mother Author,” Lula G. Richards. An
article on the “Suffrage Question” by
Sarah M. Kimball. Julia I. McDonald,
“The Poet’s Ideal Woman.” Ruth M.
Fox, an original poem, “Greeting,” and
Ellis R. Shipp, “Love Divine.”
	At the next meeting it was stated that
the object of the Club was purely literary,
and all foreign topics would be excluded.
	At this meeting, Miss N. V. Davis, who
afterwards contributed so largely to the
edification of the Club and charmed us
with her bright originality, was admitted
as a member, and is mentioned as telling a
very pleasing Christmas story and singing
the German Christmas hymn and a German
song.
	Miss Gladys Woodmansee is spoken of
as entertaining the Club with some fine
instrumental selections on the piano.
	At the third meeting, held January 30,
1892, Mrs. C. C. R. Wells is mentioned.


[Column 1]
President E. B. Wells read a communica-
tion from Washington, in reference to
uniting with the International Federation
of Press Clubs, for the consideration of the
ladies. Spoke of the advantage to be
gained in press work and extended oppor-
tunities at the coming World’s Fair.
	A motion was made that the club join
the Federation. Carried.
	The name of Louise Boyden appeared at
this date, who afterward added so much to
the enjoyment of the Club by her really
very fine elocutionary powers. The
minutes state that five new members were
received at this meeting.
	February 27 it is reported that eight new
members were admitted, and the names
of Phebe C. Young, Ellen Jakeman L.
L. Dalton and Julia P. M. Farnsworth
app ear.
	According to pre-arrangement of some of
the ladies the meeting took the form of a
birthday gathering to our time-honored
president and founder of the Club, E. B.
Wells. A token of love and esteem was
presented, congratulatory speeches wer,e
made and poems were read by each mem-
ber present, suitable to the occasion ex-
pressing tender love and affection, and true
appreciation of the one each desired to
honor. Mrs. Wells responded in fitting
words of thanks, saying: “Do not over-
estimate me, but love me all you will, for
love will yet rule the world.”
	At the March meeting the name of Mary
A Freeze appears as author of “The Bene-
fits of the Club, a very instructive article.
The names of Lillie T. Freeze and Miss
Genevieve L. Brown are recorded. In the
July minutes the name of L L. Dickinson
appears as the author of a poem, “The
Dreams of Childhood.”
	At the annual meeting, October 31, the
names of Mrs. Georgina Young and Dr.
Maggie C. Shipp are recorded as being
received as members of the Club, and
Josephine Spencer read an original poem,
The discussion of a pin or badge for mem-
bers is mentioned.
	Miss N. V. Davis spoke of the work of
the Club. Thought if we set apart certain
evenings for special subjects it would be
advantageous, and said: “That I am al-
ways present shows that I enjoy the time
spent here, and when I go away from
Utah I feel I shall know something of the
people.”
	January 31, 1893, Augusta Joyce Crocli-
eron is mentioned as contributing an article,
also Mrs. M. A. Y. Greenhalgh and Mrs
Ella W. Hyde and Miss May Preston were
received as members.
	Mrs. L. L. Dickinson entertained the
Club at a Valentine party in February,
1893, at her pleasant home. She com-
posed a poem for the occasion and very
artistically arranged everything for tile
enjoyment of her guests, serving refresh-
ments, exhibiting her large collection of
Indian relics and proving herself a charm-
ing hostess.
	March 22. 1893, Lydia D. Alder was re-
ceived as a member. The badge committee

[Column 2]
made a final report, submitting two designs
to select from; one with a bee and one with
a Greek lamp. It was decided to have a
gold pin with the Greek lamp, with U.
W. P. C. in raised letters. There is no
mention as to when the Club colors were
chosen, but they are lavender and sage
green. Mrs. Mamie Freeze was received
as a member.
	At the April meeting President E. B.
Wells spoke regarding the U. W. P. C.
becoming associated with the Territorial
Federation of Clubs. A communication
from the Federation explained some of the
benefits to be derived from the connection.
It was decided by unanimous vote that we
join the Federation.
	Article II., of the by-laws, was moved
by vote. Mrs. Lizzie Wilcox, Mrs. Ida
Haag and Miss Mamie Conrad received as
members. By unanimous vote Mrs. E. B.
Wells was sustained as delegate from the
Club to the Press Convention of Women to
be held in Chicago during the World’s
Fair, and Miss May Preston named as
alternate. Mrs. Maggie Bassett is men-
tioned as favoring the Club with some
choice music and Miss Pearl Russell as
singing very sweetly.
	At the May meeting little Ellis Shipp is
spoken of as very graphically reciting the
“Prairie Fire.”
	At the July meeting President Wells
was again in the chair. Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young, Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor and Miss
Ada Patterson were received as members.
Miss Maude Pratt is mentioned as favoring
the Club with some choice music, one
selection from “Il Trovatore.”
	“The Sixth Sense” was discussed with
much interest. 
	An article appears in the EXPONENT of
September 1, 1893, which speaks of the
women in Journalism in the Rocky
mountains, most of whom are members of
the Press Club. It is from the pen of the
editor, E. B. Wells, and was written for
the World’s Fair held in Chicago in 1893.
			 (Continued.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
OFFICIAL NOTICE.
	The Stake Secretaries of the Relief
Society and the Secretary of each mission
or branch not yet included in a Stake,
whether in our own or in foreign countries,
are hereby officially notified to carefully
prepare correct statistical and financial
reports for the current year from January
1, 1901, to December 31, 1901. These
reports must be forwarded to the General
Secretary, at the office of the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, Salt Lake City, Utah, early
in February, if possible, so that a complete
report of this great organization may be
ready at least ten days before the General
Conference in April, 1902. Address,
			EMMELINE B. WELLS,
					General Secretary.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
much as possible for you money.			TRY US.

[Column 2]
Obstetrics and Nursing.
Dr. M. C. Roberts will commence
another class in Obstetrics and
Nursing on Monday, Jan-
uary 13, 1901.

	By starting at this date the class will close
before the hot summer months.
75 North State St.			Telephone 748 D.


Save Your Money!

And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion's Savings Bank and Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank n Utah.

	Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts.
	
	The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not. open
one NOW

	We pay - FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said
interest four times a year.

WRITE for any information desired.
		Lorenzo Snow, Prest.
		George M. Cannon, Cashier.
NOS. 1-3-5, Main Street.

The Most Convenient Local Train Service
in the State is given by the . . . . .
Oregon Short Line
Railroad
FIVE Fast Daily Trains Each Way between
Salt Lake City and Ogden. . . . . .
Se that your tickets read via the 
"SHORT LINE"
And Get the best
CITY TICKET OFFICE for tickets to all points, 100 West
Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.
S. W. Eccles	D. E. Burley,
Gen Tfc. Mgr. 	G. P. & T. A.


Woman’s Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the Slate and the Nation

Vol. 30	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1902 								No. 9


CONTENTS.

Salt Lake Stake......J. S. Woolley 
 
In Memoriam......

Greetings to Relief Society......B. W. Smith 

Famous Old Liberty Bell......

Notes and News......

“Rhymelets in Many Moods”......Lydia D. Alder 

A Tribute of Love......Lydia D. Alder 

R. S. Reports......

Ladies' Semi-Monthly Meeting......

Utah Woman's Press Club......L. D. Alder 


EDITORIAL—Official Announcement......

	The New Year, 1902......

	Editorial Notes......


POETRY—The First Coming......Ruth M. Fox 

	New Year Tributes......L. L. G. Richards 

	One Woman's Prayer......Ixion


[Column 1]
THE FIRST COMING.

I.

The shadows of evenings gather,
	The lamps are burning low,
The fire crackles cheerily,
	Each ember seems to glow
With an unusual brightness;
	Without the feath'ry snow
Is falling steadily, swiftly,
	As if to clothe the earth
In her beaut'ous ermine mantle
	To celebrate His birth.

In the rocking chair sits grandma
	With baby on her knee
The boys and girls around her
	Are chatting joyously:
For tomorrow, O, tomorrow !
	What will it bring to them ?
And what will it bring to grandma ?
	How long to wait;—but then
Grandma may tell a story;
	"O, do," the children cried,
"Perhaps Santa Claus will listen
	To tales of Christmastide,"
So they drew their chairs around her,
	And she told in accents slow,
While the baby slumbered sweetly,
	This tale of long ago:

 II.

"I will tell you a real true story,
	The story that never grows old,
But like love on the ear softly whispered,
	'Tis sweeter the oftener told.

"Come with me away o'er the ocean
	To the land of the olive and palm;
Now let us sit under the fig tree,
	And rest in the twilight's deep calm.

"Long, long years ago it all happened;
	In a village of Galilee,
Yonder, where the landscape is rocky,
	Not far from the cool inland sea.

"Living there was a beautiful maiden
	Young, graceful, exquisitely fair,
With eyes soft and tender as moonbeams;
	A mantle of sunshine her hair.

"But lovelier far was her goodness,
	Rare virtue her costliest gem;
Truth and chastity dwelt in her bosom,
	Wisdom wrought her a diadem."

"'O, a princess !' they cried, "Yes, truly,
	She was of the brave royal line;
Yet her garb was so plain and simple,
	Her station one could not divine.

"One day she sat pensively gazing
	Far over the waters so blue;
Day-dreaming, perchance, of her future,
	As young maidens are wont to do.

"And perhaps her thoughts wandered back-
		ward,
	To the day when David held sway;
When close by her side stood a stranger,
	With countenance bright as the day.

[Column 2]
" 'Hail thou that art so highly favored,
	Blessed among women art thou,'
Startled, for a moment bewildered,
	A cloud overshadowed her brow.

"So tenderly spake the grave stranger,
	'Fear not, gentle Mary,' said he,
'Through thee shall the world find a Savior,
	His message I bring unto thee.'

"Then Mary perceived 'twas an angel;
	Her heart beat with rapture sublime,
And burst forth in songs of thanksgiving
	To God for His promise divine:

III.

"'Behold the handmaid of the Lord,
Be it according to His will;
My soul doth magnify His name,
My spirit hath rejoiced in Him,
The Holy One of Israel,
He hath regarded my low estate,
All generations shall call me blessed;
He that is mighty hath done great things,
Hosanna, hosanna to my King !
His mercy is on them that fear Him
From generation to generation;
He hath showed forth strength with His
	arm,
He hath subdued the haughty and proud,
The mighty he hath scattered afar,
And exalted them of low degree.
He hath filled the hungry with good things.
The rich He hath sent empty away;
He hath remembered our fathers,
Even as he spake unto Abraham
And to His seed forever.'

IV.

"In the city of David, all day long
The thoroughfares were thronged with
	visitors;
For the great Augustus had decreed
That every citizen should repair
Unto his own city to be numbered,
And render each his tax to Cæsar.
Reluctantly the sun withdrew its rays.
And the filmy covering of night
O'er-spread the town.  Inhabitants and
	guests
Were wraped in peaceful slumber, save a
	few
Malcontents, who, loitering in the mart,
Were discussing Cæsar and his doings.
When, lo, two belated travelers
Dusty and weary with their journey,
Craved admittance to the crowded inn;
But the stable alone afforded shelter
And there the lovely virgin's couch was
	made,
And there God's promise was fulfilled.

V.

"Out of the din of the city,
	Under the starlit sky,
Shepherd their flocks were keeping,
	The midnight hour was nigh.

"When behold, a radiant splendor
	Illumined all around.
Amazement filled their bosoms
	And hushed was ev'ry sound.

"Then out of the rays of glory
	An angel's voice was heard:
'Fear not, I bring glad tidings
	According to his word.

" 'Rejoice and shout for gladness,
	For unto you this day,
The Christ is born in Bethlehem,
	Up, up and haste away.

" 'And sound the joyful tidings---
	He's left His Father's throne,
To bring the world redemption,
	Your King, your Lord has come.'

"Then the air was filled with music,
	And hark ! the heav'nly throng
Was joining with the angel
	In this triumphant song:

[Column  3]
" 'Glory to God in the highest,
	Let the earth His praises ring.
This day He brings salvation,
	Hosanna to our King.

" 'Halleluiah, halleluiah,
	Peace and good will to man;
Hosanna, shout hosanna,
	To our God and the Lamb.'

"Softer and sweeter the music,
	Fainter, fainter it grows;
The shepherds gazed and wondered,
	Until the vision closed.

"Then each man turned to his neighbor,
	'Wist ye what the angel said ?
Come, let's away to Bethlehem,
	And find the hallowed bed.'

VI.

"A singular part of my story
	Remaineth yet to be told;
Where the glorious sun first riseth,
	Tinging hills and vales of gold;
There were men renowned for wisdom,
	Well versed in scriptural lore,
Who were observers of the heavens,
	And had scanned them o'er and o'er

"For the sign which had been promised,
	Of the coming of the Son;
For did not the scriptures testifv
	That Shilohh would surely come ?
Long, long years they'd watched and
		waited,
	When upon one peaceful night
A new star in the firmament,
	Which was wonderfully bright.

"So they gathered up their treasures,
	And with faith unwavering,
They started out for Bethlehem
	In search of Israel's King.
And the star of brilliant beauty
	Went before them on their way

Till majestically it rested,
	'Over where the young child lay.'
Not o'er towering, shining turrets.
	O'er a gilded palace dome,
Nor to halls of polished marble,
	Had the princely wise men come.

But they found their King in a stable,
	With a manger for his bed;
Born and nourished by a Virgin,
	Just as the scriptures read.

"Now they praised the God of Jacob
	That they'd lived to see this day,
When, though humble, meek and lowly,
	The blessed Savior lay.
They had found the true Immanuel,
	Lord of lords, and King of kings,
On their bended knees they praised him,
	Gave him gifts of precious things;
They gave him oriental treasures,
	Then exclaimed with Simeon old:
'Lord, thy salvation we have seen it,
	Take us now into Thy fold.' "
					RUTH M. FOX.


The fourth triennial of the National
Council of women of the United States will
be held in Washington, D. C., beginning
February 19, 1902, and extending probably
over the 25th.
	Alabama has adopted its new constitu-
tion. One of its anomalous features, as an
indignant Alabama lady writes, is that a
man whose wife owns forty acres of land
can vote in virtue of that fact, but the wife 
herself cannot vote even if she owns four
hundred acres.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
SALT LAKE STAKE.

	Relief Society conference of December
21, 1901, opened in the 14th Ward Hall,
with President M. I. Horne presiding.
Singing, "O, give me back my prophet
dear." Prayer by Sister E. J. Stevenson. 
Continued by singing, "Weep, weep not
for me Zion." Minutes of morning session
of previous conference read and accepted.
	President Horne felt we were more in-
different in attending our conferences in
the city than elsewhere. Are we preparing
for the Savior? Thought He could say if
He should come today, "Shall I find faith 
in the earth?"
	Branches all reported except five.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde's resignation was
read and accepted and she was given a
vote of thanks.
	A report of the work in the Temple was
read.
	The names of the officers of the General
Board were read and sustained. The
Stake officers were sustained as follows:
M. I. Horne, president; Sarah J. Cannon, 
first counselor Clara C. Cannon, second
counselor; J. S. Woolley, secretary; Maggie
C. Hull, treasurer; Maria W. Wilcox, 
corresponding secretary; Julia C. Howe,
Lydia D. Alder, aids. All presidents of 
branches in the Salt Lake Stake were sus-
tained. 
	President Horne spoke upon the duties
of the Relief Society members. Keep from
evil thoughts or actions, pay tithing and
attend our meetings. 
	President B. W. Smith felt we should 
look after the poor and make their hearts
rejoice during the cold weather. Let us
be united. Felt she had a great responsi-
bility, wished to do all she did prayerfully
and honorably. Felt pleased with 
her counselors and all officers. "It 
is our duty to keep the Temple clean
and it must be attended to." 
	Sister Annie T. Hyde felt Relief Society
work is a sacred responsibility on every
officer and member. Felt the teachers
should help take care of their respective
blocks. Spoke of the birthday of Presi-
dent Joseph Smith and his true friendship
for women, that she had enjoyed her work
in the Stake and felt she had a great re-
sponsibility in her new position. Said
the people usually donate liberally at 
Christmas time, and we must distribute
liberally to them. Was pleased the 
Prophet Joseph Smith's birthday was to
be celebrated. Believed it should be, that
he was a great gift from God. Spoke of
the trials and experiences of President
Joseph F Smith in the early days. Felt
we do not appreciate our blessings. Let
us speak of all the best we can. 
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p.m. Sing-
ing, Doxology. Benediction, C. C. Cannon. 
	Afternoon session of conference called to
order at 2 o'clock by President M. I. 
Horne. Singing, "We thank Thee, O
God, for a prophet." Prayer by Maria
W. Wilcox. Singing, "Praise to the man
who communed with Jehovah." Minutes of
afternoon session of last conference read
and accepted. 
	President M. I. Horne felt that there is
nothing greater or grander to read about
than the life's experience of President
Joseph Smith, and the difficulties he had to
encounter in doing the work he had to
accomplish. 
	President B. W. Smith said she was
very young when she became acquainted
with the Prophet Joseph; that she had a

[column 2]
strong testimony of his mission before she
every saw him and was always anxious to
hear him speak, he was always full of in-
struction and revelation. She was often
in his society and was well acquainted with
him. Her husband was one of the Twelve.
She was at the organization of the Relief
Society when Joseph Smith often visited
and gave instruction to its members. He
said, "I will live and die amongst you, and
you won't know me." Said his wife, 
Emma, was much beloved. 
	Amellie W. Wardrop was chosen and
sustained as secretary of our Saturday
meetings.
	Sister M. W. Wilcox was acquainted
with the Prophet Joseph in Nauvoo, had
often heard him speak. Remembered the
night of his death and of viewing his re-
mains in the mansion house. Felt it a
great privilege to have known him. 
	Sister Lambert said she had a testimony of
the Gospel the moment she saw the Proph-
et. There was a power in him she never
knew in another. Thought the harmony
and order there is among the people should
be a testimony to the world. The night of
his death was one of sorrow. There was
no sleep in our house, it seemed all nature
was awake, the cattle even could not rest. 
	President Bassett said she remembered
seeing him. 
	Counselor Sarah J. Cannon said she re-
membered how even the little children
wept at his death. 
	The congregation sang, "The Spirit
of God." 
	President Horne said she had often en-
tertained the Prophet Joseph Smith. He
often spoke of the mistranslations of the
Bible and gave much instruction upon
the domestic phase of life, said he was
jovial and pleasant to all. She also 
spoke of the noble parentage of our
present President, Joseph F. Smith. 
	President Angus M. Cannon was first
acquainted with President M. I. Horne in
1844. Said he had heard Joseph Smith
bear a testimony of God. "He has brought
us a knowledge of the truth. The man or
woman is rich who has faith in the Lord." 
Spoke of the mission of our Savior, of His
prayer in Gethsemane to let the bitter cup
pass, but He at last submitted and said, 
"Let thy will, not mine, be done." Let
us remember the mercies and blessings of
God. 
	Brother Jos. E. Taylor was the next
speaker. He said when he was a young
man and his mind was depressed and
darkened he would speak of the mission of
Joseph Smith, and these feelings departed
and his mind was lit up. Was glad his
birth was to be celebrated. Nothing could
be said of him that was too good. He
crossed the river at Nauvoo and healed
every man he touched. Spoke of the
righteousness of Hyrum Smith. Every-
thing that we require to take us into our
Eternal Father's presence Joseph Smith
held the keys to. 
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon was then set
apart by Presidents Angus M. Cannon and
Jos. E. Taylor; Julia S. Woolley set apart
as secretary of Stake; Amelia W. Ward-
rop as secretary of Saturday meetings. 
	President Horne wished all a merry
Christmas and a happy and prosperous New
Year. 
	Meeting adjourned for three months. 
Singing, "The God we adore." Bene-
dfction by President A. M. Cannon. 
				J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.


IN MEMORIAM.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sister
Louisa C. L. Olsen, who was born at Folingbo,
Sweden, September 21, 1820. She was baptized
into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, February 3, 1861. Emigrated to Utah
March 31, 1864. Married Martin Olsen, October
10, 1866.
	Sister Olsen died at Goshen, Utah, July 31,
1901. She was a faithful teacher and member of
the Goshen Relief Society for many years and
she may well be called a Saint in very deed.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father has seen fit to
call from our midst our beloved sister and co-
worker, therefore be it
	Resolved, that the members of the Goshen
Relief Society emulate her virtues, honesty, integ-
rity, humility and kindness, also her great devo-
tion to her religion. Be it also
	Resolved, that we tender our sympathy to her
husband’s family, for they will miss her kind and
tender care now she has departed. Be it
	Resolved, that we spread a copy of the resolu-
tions on our record, give one ;o the bereaved
family and send one to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
for publication.
EMMA PETTIS, Sec,

MARY ANN HYDE.
	We are again called to part with another faith-
ful sister, who departed this life, December 1,
1901.
	Sister Mary Ann Hyde, wife of Rosel Hyde,
was born December 31, 1820. She was baptized
into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints in 1834. She made her home with the
Prophet Joseph Smith until she married Brother
Hyde on December 12, 1832, in Payson. Ill.
	When the Relief Society was organized in
Kaysville, May 16, 1868, she was chosen first
counselor to Sister Ann Smith. In 1872 Sister
Smith died and Sister Hyde was appointed to take
her place.
	She was always at her meetings on time. She
was always kind to her sisters and was a peace-
maker among all whom she was acquainted.
	In July, 1882, Sister Hyde resigned the office of
president, but still retained a membership until
her death.
	She raised a family of five sons and four
daughters. She lived the life of a Saint in every
respect and set a good example to her children.
	One son is president over Pocatello Stake in
Idaho, and one son is a Bishop in Star Valley,
Wyoming. She was in good standing in the Church.
She has gone to receive her reward with the true
and faithful. She would rather suffer a wrong
than do one. She died as she lived, in peace with
all who knew her.
	Her memory will long be cherished by many
who knew her.
	It can truly be said of Sister Hyde. “Well done
thou good and faithful servant, rest in peace until
the resurrection shall restore all things.”
SARAH B. LAYTON

HENRIETTA HOLLADAY.
	In the midst of life we have death. Thus again
our generous Father has seen fit to call home
another of our hard-working, never-wavering
sisters.
	Sister Henrietta Holladay was born in Lorain
County, Ohio, September 26, 1833. Her parents
were Benjamin F. and Ann Mennels Taylor.
At eight years of age she was baptized into the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints. In
1850 she with her parents crossed the plains in
Capt. Wall’s company, arriving in Utah in the
fall of that year. In 1851 she went with her par-
ents on a mission to Southern California. In 1852
She was married to David H. Holladay and
moved back to Utah. In 1857, the following
year, she moved to Santaquin, where she resided
until her death, which occured September 27,
1901. Thus was ended the career of one who was
all that is worthy of a model of nobleness.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, our Heavenly Father has seen fit to
call from our midst our sister, Henrietta Holla-
day, who was treasurer of the Relief Society
of Santaquin when first organized, and a
faithful worker, and one who always had a kind,
cheering word for all, therefore, be it
	Resolved, that we, the members of the Santa-
quin Relief Society, do hereby express our heart-
felt sympathy to the bereaved family.
ALICE ELLSWORTH.
Santaquin, Nov. 5, 1901.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NEW YEAR TRIBUTES.

My Sister Nancy: This bright New Year’s morn,
Thy cherished memory I will adorn
With sweet “For-get-me-nots.” For at the time
When earth life ceased for thee, and life sublime,
In the fair spirit land before thee ope’d,
I was not near thee, as we both had hoped;
But far away; no token I bestowed,
And all these weeks and months this debt have owed.

In fragrant June of Nineteen hundred one
Thy earthly record closed, thy work was done;
Well hadst thou earned thy passport and release,
And in thy new promotion rest and peace!
I owe thee much of tenderness and love;
No gentler spirit in that home above,
Among the just made perfect will be known,
And Father understandeth well his own.

His faithful, loving, true and loyal child,
Who lived the pure religion undefiled.
How often is the spirit hampered here,
With hurtful things which hold, and interfere
With best progression; but henceforth, for thee,
I feel there is no clog, thy course is free;
And truest peace and rest for thy rich mind,
Must needs be usefulness of noblest kind

My dear, sweet sister! may thy labors be
Such as permit thee oft to think of me,
And as my mind goes out to thee, perforce,
In spirit may we hold blest intercourse;
Live o’er again bright hours of guileless youth;
Reach forward, grasping new, enliv’ning truth,
Praise God and bless Him for the gift of tho’t;
And parting, breathe again, “For-get-me-not!”

EVA.

A lover of beauty and truth wast thou,
Of children and sunshine, books and flowers;
	And pleasant it is to consider now,
	The restful smile on thy lip and brow,
How passeth thy peaceful, heavenly hours.
	This New Year’s morn, Nineteen hundred two,
	By thy mother’s grave finds thine own made new.

And together ye work in that sacred place,
Where only the pure and good may appear;
	The glory of love lighteth either face—
	And how many will greet thee with glad embrace,
For whom thou hast worked in the Temples here!
	Grand was thy mission upon this earth,
	Enriched with gems of the highest worth.

Thy father, brothers and sisters all,
Have thy loving words and deeds rehearsed;
	And He who marketh the sparrows’ fall,
	Hath kindly granted thy mother’s call,
That thou, of her daughters, shouldst join her first.
	Oh, visit us oft, in this world of strife,
	With visions or dreams of thy new, bright life!

Thy soul’s companion remaining still,
Calmly resigned to thy summons hence,
	Waiteth to finish the Father’s will—
	But, oh, what joy will your beings thrill,
In the resurrection’s sweet recompense;
	When spirit and body again nnite,
	In fullness of glory and love and light!
						L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


ONE WOMAN’S PRAYER.
			IXION.

She sat with downcast face and tearful eyes,
	And sighed as if her heart were very sore.
Her friends beheld—and with a look of deep sur-
	prise
Asked: “Whatever canst thou ask for more?

“See! thou hast husband, children, home and
		friends,
	Health, peace and happiness without restraint,
Not these alone! He now another blessing sends—
	Wealth, and honest fame without a taint.”

But still she sat with downcast, tearful eyes;
	And still she sighed; yet answered low and
		meek:
“I do not fail, my friends, to realize,
	The worth of all the gifts of which you speak.

“Yet am I troubled! Sorrow have I known
	And sickness o’er and o’er; while Death and I
With frequent greetings have familiar grown.
	O, give me strength to bear, has been my cry.

“And now, when ease, prosperity and peace,
	Spread out their glittering web for my poor
		feet,
I shrink! and question if some magic fleece
	Hath not wrought out for me this wonder sweet

“Prosperity, and ease, and peace! What snares
	Are hidden in thy brilliant velvet wings.
Wealth, fame and honor! what weight of cares
	Will linger in thy smiling, subtle stings.


“I’ve loved the Christ; and with that love have
		sought
	To fashion life upon His solemn story.
Trial and death, and woe and pain have wrought
	In my past life a gleam of His great glory.

“And now the sorest trial, the keenest test,
	Of all that He has hitherto sent me,
Approaches with a gay and laughing jest,
	And even thou the danger cannot see.

“Dear friend, thou’st loved me in my low estate,
	And wept and prayed with me in bitter hours,
Now further prove thy love, and pray and wait,
	Till God withdraws the thorns from these His
		flowers.

“You know my heart, you know my great desire
	While I may live on earth to serve the Lord.
To rear the little ones so that they aspire
	For nothing greater than His spoken word.

“Ah, pray for me! and ever as you pray
	Ask Him to give me grace for every hour.
Let Him rebuke, chastise me day by day,
	Nor leave me to that other Evil Power.

“Whatever we may do, or me or mine
	To speed the cause of Righteousness today
With fame or wealth, oh let us do! They’re
		Thine,
Oh, Lord, If we misuse, then take them all
		away.

“Of all the gifts we may enjoy, there’s one
	We most desire; the gift of Love! And then—
So loving all Thou has created—give us
	Power to help Thee save the souls of men!”


GREETINGS TO RELIEF SOCIETY.
					January 1, 1902.
Beloved Sisters:
	With the dawn of this New Year’s day I
send greetings to the noble band of Relief
Society workers throughout the world. Let
us go forth at this hour with renewed
resolutions to take up the work of relief
and improvement with a strong purpose
and with even more faith and love and
unity than we have ever enjoyed.
	Let forgiveness and charity be our bond.
	Let love and cleanliness and order rule
in every home that our children may not
desire to leave the fireside for idle pleas-
ures.
	And, dear sisters, seek to bind your
society with hoops of love and union.
	Let not harsh words pass our lips, nor
yet any envious nor unkind thought enter
our hearts. Read often First Corinthians,
thirteenth chapter, that we may seek more
ardently the spirit of charity. Be prayer-
ful and seek earnestly to improve.
	Be not carried away with vain social
pleasures and the foolish fashions of the
hour.
	Make yourselves beautiful; be gentle
and womanly.
	The Prophet Joseph addressing the
sisters at the first meeting (the organiza-
tion of this society, March 17, 1842, Nau-
voo, Ill.) said: “This society of sisters
might provoke the brethren to good works
in looking to the wants of the poor, search-
ing after objects of charity, and in admin-
istering to their wants, and to assist by
strengthening the virtues of the commun-
ity.” When I heard these words from the
lips of the prophet, a little of the greatness
of the work to be done by the Relief
Society came before me, and I have never
felt to shirk the duties devolving upon me
either as a member or an officer of this
association.
	I feel that I have been blest in my labors
while ministering to the sick and unfor-
tunate and have experienced much joy in
Relief Society work, and I feel to promise
similar blessings to those who lovingly and


faithfully take up a part of this labor of
relief.
	My counselors, Sister Annie T. Hyde
and Sister Ida Smoot Dusenberry, join
with me in sending greetings of love and
good will and wishes for a prosperous and
successful year.
	Peace be with you. 
				BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.
President of the Relief Society in all the
	world.
	Salt Lake City, No. 122 North West
Temple Street.


FAMOUS OLD LIBETRY BELL.
	Philadelphia, Jan. 6.—The old Liberty
bell, accompanied by Major Ashbridge and
an official escort of City Councilmen and
city department heads, started on a journey
to the Charleston exposition at 9 o’clock this
morning. As the special train left the
Pennsylvania station, a salute of twenty-
one guns was fired at the League Island
navy yard.
	The passage of the Liberty bell through
Harrisburg today was not marked by any
formal greeting on the part of the city
officials and organizations. Union station,
however, and other points of vantage from
which the precious relic could be viewed,
were crowded. A delegation of citizens
from Carlisle and other points in the
Cumberland valley met the train here to
act as an escort through that region. This
is the first time the bell has ever gone
through the historic valley, and prepara-
tions have been made in every town and
hamlet along the route to accord it a fitting
reception.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	On November 12 Mrs. Elizabeth Cady
Stanton celebrated her 80th birthday at
her home in New York City.

	About $4000 has been raised for the
Boer women and children’s relief fund at a
great meeting in Philadelphia, which was
addressed by Rev. Mr. Van Broekhuizen, a
Boer clergyman.

	Mrs Martha Callanan has left $20,000
to the Booker Washington school at
Tuskegee, and $1,000 to Mrs. Sarah
Whitney in trust for the Woman's
Standard, the organ of the Iowa Woman’s
Suffrage Association.

	The Annual Convention of the National
American Woman Suffrage Association
will be held February 12th to the 18th, and
arrangements have been made for extension
of time on railroad certificates for those in
attendance at that meeting to cover the
Council meetings if desired.

	Hotel Fairfax (formerly known as
Willard’s) corner of 14th and F. Streets, is
offered for Council headquarters at most
reasonable rates, namely: rooms, $1.50 and
upwards. (This price is for rooms only.)
A good and reasonable restaurant is in the
hotel.

	Bulletin No. 4 will contain international
news, and it is hoped an important com-
munication from Mrs. Ellen A. Richardson,
Cabinet Head of the department of Art and
Literature, together with hints regarding
the triennial program.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal di-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1902.


[Column 1]
OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENT.
Official announcement of tke organization of
	the General Presidency of the Relief
	Society.
	To the officers and members of the
several Stakes and branches of the Relief
Society in the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints.
	Our Father in heaven, who doeth all
things well, has seen fit to call home to a
better world our beloved and revered presi-
dent, Sister Zina D. H. Young, after a
long life of active usefulness, and blessed
ministrations in the spirit of the Gospel,
and the calling assigned her by the Priest-
hood of the Church. of which she was a
faithful member. She passed peacefully
away August 28, 1901, beloved by all who
knew her, and many thousands bless and
honor her memory. “Blessed are the dead
which die in the Lord from henceforth.
Yea, saith the Spirit, that they may rest
from their labors: and their works do follow
them.”
	On Tuesday, October 31, 1901, Sister
Bathsheba W. Smith was elected to fill the
vacancy caused by the demise of the late
president, Sister Young, and at the special
conference of the Church, Sunday, Novem-
ber 10, 1901, Sister Smith was sustained as
president of the Relief Society in all the
world. Her counselors, who had been
previously chosen were also sustained;
they are Sister Annie Taylor Hyde and
Sister Ida Smoot Dusenberry, also Sister
Emmeline B. Wells, secretary, and Sister
Clarissa Smith Williams, treasurer. These
are the general officers that were sustained
at the special conference by vote of all the
quorums of the Priesthood, and the mem-
bers of the Church who were present on
that memorable occasion.
	We unitedly join with our sisters and co-
laborers here in Zion and abroad in all
parts of the world in gratitude to our
Father in heaven for His innumerable
blessings, that have been manifest ever
since the society was first organized by the
Prophet Joseph Smith in Nauvoo, Illinois,
March 17, 1842, now nearly sixty years
ago; and we humbly beseech the blessings
and guidance of our heavenly Father, to
direct all our future efforts, and pray that
the Holy Spirit may be with those who
labor in any capacity therein, and bless
their ministrations however lowly their
calling may be
	We have not taken these responsibilities

[Column 2]
upon ourselves, but have been called in
the order of the holy Priesthood, and we
humbly desire to magnify the callings
given to us of the Lord, and in order to do so
acceptably, we shall need the faith and sup-
port of the First Presidency of the Church,
the Apostles, presidents of Stakes and Bish-
ops, whom we ever feel to uphold, and with
whom we desire to work in harmony, and
to merit at all times their confidence and
blessing.
	Signed,
BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
General President.
ANNIE TAYLOR HYDE,
First Counselor.
IDA SMOOT DUSENBERRY,
Second Counselor.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,
General Secretary.
CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS,
General Treasurer.
Salt Lake City, Dec. 30, 1901.


[Column 1]
THE NEW YEAR, 1902.
	A Happy New Year to all our readers,
patrons and friends, and may it prove a
more prosperous one to our dear little
EXPONENT, financially and otherwise.
Great advancement is being made in many
directions and along many lines of pro-
gress, and the sisters of the Relief
Society who expect official information
and instruction through the EXPONENT,
should make a diligent effort to extend its
circulation more widely than hitherto.
	The year nineteen hundred and two has
been ushered in with every indication
of prosperity and the people have every
blessing needful for their comfort and sus-
tenance in this goodly land. The Latter-
day Saints are in the enjoyment of so
many things to be thankful for—among
others peace, freedom from oppression,
and opportunity of spreading the Gospel
of light and truth for the salvation of the
living and the redemption of the dead.
There is much to be grateful for and the
Lord is multiplying His blessings from
day to day and from time to time
Throughout the United States conditions
are changing for the better, and especially
is this the case in regard to the woman ques-
tion; to be sure the world over, much has
been effected during the last few years. It
began in America and has been carried to
many countries. In Washington, D. C, at
the Annual Convention of the National
American Woman Suffrage Association,
which will open February 12 many coun-
tries will be represented by delegates and
speakers. In fact it will be international
in its nature. The pioneer workers in the
movement and some of the greatest women
in the world will be gathered there on that
auspicious occasion, to tell what has been
accomplished, and the outlook for the
future.
	The four Western states that have suc-
ceeded in obtaining equal suffrage will
send delegations undoubtedly, and assured-
ly the Utah representatives will be on
hand to report the good work and the bene-
fits of the law that gives woman so many
privileges in her own right.
	In Germany particularly, according to
the press reports of the International
Council of women, the woman question
has made great progress. In that country
“there are between the ages of 17 and 50
4,000,000 spinsters; 40 per cent of all the

[Column 2]
women in Germany are unmarried, and a
large proportion of these must earn their
bread. In the past they have lacked
education and industrial training, but
now they have both, in a measure. There
are now industrial schools for women in
all the large towns of Germany, many of
them receiving municipal aid and some
of them notably in Berlin, entirely sup-
ported by the city.”
	The practical reforms in many things
and in many ways that have been brought
about directly or indirectly through the
woman movement would fill a volume
were they enumerated—they (the women)
have not exactly “turned the world up-
side down,” as great and wise men pre-
dicted they would, when first the move-
ment began, but they have made many
wonderful changes. And certainly some
of the greatest and best men have since
been willing to admit, that it has been
vastly for the improvement of the world at
large, as well as the individual.
	Here in our beautiful mountain retreat
away from much of the turmoil and strife
of the outside world, the people enjoy
many sacred privileges that perchance
some hold lightly, because they are every-
day affairs, and they know little by con-
trast; but those who have passed through
the persecutions, drivings and mobbings,
certainly know how to fully appreciate the
days in which we live at the present time,
and their testimony and experience during
the bitter trials of earlier years in the his-
tory of the Church should make an im-
pression upon the younger generation that
ought to inspire them with reverence for
these veterans of battles for the truth, who
fought the good fight with humility for their
armor, and the sword of truth for their
defence; and it should prove to them that
the Lord is able and willing to deliver His
people and to lead them to victory in His
own way and time. The pioneers who
sought out this resting place were not only
great in pioneering and colonizing, but
they were also in the best and truest
sense pioneers for the establishment of
truth upon the earth; the builders of
Temples and sanctuaries in which to wor-
ship God, as well as homes for a people
who had been obliged to go beyond the
borders of civilization Truly enough
history repeats itself, for these stalwart
leaders of the great exodus were the des-
cendants of the pilgrims who fled from
their native land and crossed the mighty
ocean to seek an asylum and refuge where
they might worship God according to the
dictates of their own consciences.
	And now the children and grandchil-
dren of the Utah pioneers are in posses-
sion of the fullest freedom and liberty ever
enjoyed by any body of people, and let us
hope and pray that they may hold it so
sacredly, and stand firmly for equity and
truth, maintaining the rights bequeathed
to them from the fathers who have passed
to the great beyond into the spirit world,
and never let the power of mammon and
of unrighteousness make them false to the
integrity and trust they are so proud of as
their rightful inheritance.
	The young people of this new state
should also be proud of the honor of state-
hood and stand for all that is best and
highest in government for all the people of
the state and for the United States; the free
Republic is also growing and expanding,
lengthening its borders gnd strengthening


other countries, and the freedom vouch
safed to this nation, is a heritage bestowed
by the men who fought for liberty and
were inspired to frame the Constitution of
these United States, and the Declaration
of Rights, so wisely constructed. Every
one who desires the highest good of the
country has abundant scope in this free
land to exercise his best gifts for the good
of all.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	There will be a National Peace Demon-
stration made by the women of all
countries in May, 1902. May Wright
Sewall is chairman in the United States.
	Monday, January 6, there was a Whitney
gathering at the residence of Horace G.
Whitney, Business Manager of the
Deseret News Company. The house was a
blaze of light, and the rooms beautifully
decorated for the occasion, which was the
birthday anniversary of the host. There
were Whitneys and Whitneys and Whit-
neys, large and small, old and young—
grandchildren and great grandchildren of
Bishop Newel K. Whitney, the founder of
the Whitney family in the valley of the
Great Salt Lake. There was feasting and
talking, instrumental music by Miss Hattie
Whitney, singing by Bishop O. F. Whit-
ney and his sister, Mrs. Marian Whitney
Dinwoodey, and George D. Pyper, whose
wife is a Whitney, and a poem by Bishop
Whitney, and the party was a great suc-
cess. The brothers and sisters of H. G.
Whitney presented him with an elegant
copy of Napoleon Bonaparte in three
volumes, very handsomely illustrated, and
as he is an ardent lover of books, it was a
most appropriate gift. May the Whitneys
increase and multiply in numbers and in
strength and each one remember to honor
the name made illustrious in the history of
the Church by their honored ancestor,
Bishop Newel K. Whitney.
	We are very proud to welcome among
the periodicals of Utah the Children’s
Friend, a most happy title it seems to be,
and may the venture be a successful one for
the Primary Association. The table of
contents gives good promise of its useful-
ness among the little people and those who
have charge of them. The “Greeting”
from the president of the General Board,
Louie B. Felt, is full of deep love and
humble appreciation of her high position
and its great responsibilities, and it breathes
the true spirit of devotion and helpfulness.
“Suggestions to Officers” contains many
lessons that if carefully studied, followed
and applied will be of great benefit in the
daily labors of those who desire to make
themselves competent teachers in this work
of love among the children. Lula’s poem
is very sweet and full of love, and alto-
gether the new magazine is in the spirit of
the Primary work and makes one think
of the Savior’s words, “Except ye become
as one of these, ye cannot enter the king-
dom of heaven.” These dear sisters whose
work is among the little children will have
the opportunity of growing into that per-
fect love the Savior laid down as the
golden rule of life. The lessons all seem
to have been carefully arranged and with
such a complete guide, surely the associa-
tions will work in perfect harmony. The
Children’s Friend should assuredly be taken
in every home of the Latter-day Saints.


[column 1]
“RHYMELETS IN MANY MOODS,"
BY H. W. NAISBITT.

	This, the first of the “Home Circle”
series, came as a sweet thought for the
Christmas time. “Rhymelets” you are wel-
come! Like the sweet flowers of May,
and the blushing rose of June, you add
beauty and fragrance to the world. You
tell stories of love, of devotion of trial and
exultation. You touch new chords of the
heart, that never thrilled before; fire some
thought of the measureless Unknown,
and sing songs that we have known from
childhood in a tender strain. You bear
the impress of eternal Truth that has
flowed from Inspiration’s pen.
	You bring up memories of the sea, the
bright, undulating, mighty sea, and
days, when as strangers in the world, we
gleaned in the vineyard, finding here and
there much choice, tender wheat that must
be garnered into the storehouse of the
husbandmen. How beautifully you sing
of Friendship, strong and lasting, with-
standing the storms of Time, and finding
its full fruition in worlds Celestial.
	Appreciation tells its tale, and the vision
of futurity is opened to view, revealing
what will be. Sweet cadences are sung of
the Past, that recall the path trodden in
sweetest expectation. Dreamland is opened
to our view, where people revel, whom we
have forgotten or have never had life.
Sweet fancies of Dreamland live on; in thy
world we taste of love unknown on earth,
and dwell in realms that are yet to be.
Prophecy unveils the future, and must
ever go hand in hand with Poetry.
	In “The Parting’’ sweet thoughts are
expressed.

	“They meet no more—can this be true ?
	   Is every dream and love lit thought
	To be transferred to objects new
	   As traffic by a merchant bought?

	Will not in after years there come
	   Thoughts of the quiet rambles, where
	Love’s fond expression both could seal
	   By methods which a world doth share?”

	How beautifully expressed are the
thoughts in “My Unexpected Friend.”

Distant, though near when music of thy greeting
    Falls on mine ear, inspiring as it rings,
Unsatisfied if chance prevent a meeting.
     Until dispelled by stress of other things.

Alike in taste, alike in aspiration,
    And yet distant enough for mental interchange;
Because of age, experience or association,
    As known alone through less or wider range.

*	*	*	*
 
‘When all our dreams come true,’ the Poet wrote,
    ‘Eternal fitness will be found to reign—
Shadows will be the substance, dreams the real;
    Thus kindred only separate to meet again.”

	Thoughts unraveling the skein of life
are given in “Love Unappeased.”

	“May be it was kinship, or friendship, or love
	Which had its beginning in mansions above;
	   If so ’tis immortal and death will explain
	The secret of loving—in loving again.”

	Thoughts of the missionary field are
stirred by reading, “In the Missionary
Field.”

“Not far from that boisterous, wild, mad crew
   The voice of singing fell on my ear.
I turned again, for ’twas fresh and new,
   And touched my soul as I lingered near.

The words were stirring, yet wondrous sweet,
   Both they and the tune were as if divine;
Then prayer was offered as silence sweet,
   On that throng fell at the hour of nine. 

[column 2]
An earnest man then rose and told
   Of Gospel light and a Father’s love;
The contrast fell as ’twixt dust and gold,
   In the two old streets as I both did prove.”

	The street meetings in the old market
places arise to view. And the queer wind-
ing streets seem with us. Who can ever
forget such meetings, where the songs of
Zion resound on summer air in the streets
and lanes of England !
	“Rhymelets” we wish you every suc-
cess. May you enter every home in Zion,
your sentiments be read by young and old,
and your songs re-echo till Eternity’s
dawn.
				LYDIA D. ALDER.


A TRIBUTE OF LOVE.
PHEBE C. YOUNG.
	The long shadows of the dying year are
falling over the world. The beautiful
green leaves of summer, now sere and
dead, rustle on the ground. Piercing north
winds blow them about as worthless things.
In heaps they lie down in the furrows
under the moss. They cling around the
roots of brush and tree to check their
drifting, or they are trodden under the
foot of men.
	The grim Reaper, too gathers his harvest.
Away in the earth reverently the dead part
is laid. But by the decree of God, the
spirit ascends to worlds on high.
	What a glorious change, from ice, cold
and snow, to a Summer Land! There
flowers of gorgeous hue are playing in the
warm south wind Wide spreading trees
are clothed with foliage of daintiest green
and the grass is thick like velvet to step
upon.
	Thoughts like these fill the mind, as we
stand by the bier of one whose memory is
precious, and whose virtues we would
emulate. She has joined the innumerable
host, who, one by one, gather on the other
shore
	Surrounded by loved ministering angels,
the frail moorings of life were loosened.
With a sigh her spirit was borne away,
leaving the worn out tenement to moulder
to dust. There will be a vacant chair, and
the loss of a tender mother’s loving hand.
But love remains; it is indestructible, and
like sweet incense will ever twine around
her memory.
	Her beautiful, spiritual mind, untram-
meled now by blight of time or cares of
earth, will be inspired by the glory of the
eternal world. Her aspirations for pro-
gression and development, so longed for
here, will find full fruition.
	As a wife and mother she was an ex-
ample of loving solicitude and consistent
piety. Through affliction’s vale she walked
with trembling step, but no murmuring
word. In Trial’s fiery furnace her nature
was refined, and thus she came in closer
communion with the Eternal One. Her
days of loneliness, their depth known only
to God, are over. She is reunited with
the treasures she laid on the altar, and
whose loss made the world a barren wilder-
ness. How bravely she gathered up the
broken threads of life, learning to live
without them, she alone knows.
	She was faithful in every calling of life;
every duty was conscientiously performed.
By her friends and associates of the Press
Club her memory is revered She was a
valued member, and graced the various
positions she vas called upon to fill. Re-


liable when a task was assigned her, she
honorably performed it, gave it her best
efforts.
	From her pen flowed thoughts that were
fathomed out of the well of eternal truth;
and whether in prose or verse, bore the
impress of a superior mind.
	Yet she was so unassuming ! By the
thoughtless she was not noticed, but to those
not captivated by the shining, shallow
sands of life, she was a kindred spirit,
whom to know was to love, and to love
was to revere. The first year of the new
century brought her release, and the year
of Jubilee.
	The shadows of the old year grow longer
on her grave. On the hillside the winter
winds sing her requiem.
	The year and herself have performed
well their missions, and it is well they
should rest from their labors.
	It will only be a little season for her
then the trump of God will sound, and the
dead in the Lord will rise and behold him,
surrounded by countless concourses of
Saints and angels. Then He will make up
His jewels, and they will be like unto her,
clothed in robes of righteousness and wear-
ing the victor’s crown.

Only a little rest, where mountain breezes sigh;
Only a little rest the years are passing by;
Watch and wait, ye loved ones, count well the passing
	years.
Hear again her counsels, heed not your falling tears.

Know that the way of life is through the vale of Death,
That lasting joy is found, through the last failing breath;
Be as true and faithful, as all who enter there,
Her treasures ye are still, and will her glory share.

’Tis not good bye forever—bless the Gospel sound,
Life and immortality in that world abound.
There the ransomed of all ages, joyous will meet,
Sing the song Triumphant, and their Redeemer greet.

’Tis life beyond the river, on the shining shore,
Love of Christ the giver, a fullness evermore.
Then on the hillside rest ’mong the countless dead,
Where breezes sigh in Summer, while stars gleam over-
	head.
						LYDIA D. ALDER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
NORTH SANPETE STAKE.
	Minutes of the Relief Society conference of
the North Sanpete Stake which convened in
the Mt. Pleasant meeting house, November
23, 1901.
	Meeting opened with singing, “We
thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.” Prayer
by Edward Cliff. Singing, “How firm a
foundation.” President W. Erickson
welcomed all to our conference. Roll call
showed forty-one visiting officers and mem-
bers.
	The first report was given by Sister
Ellen Tulgren, of Spring City. Said they
had a good set of sisters there and a good
enrollment, but a comparatively small
attendance at the meetings. Had visited
all the poor and aged sisters in the ward.
	Sister Hardy, of Moroni, took pleasure
in reporting her ward. They had interest-
ing meetings. All seemed anxious and
willing to bear their testimonies. They
had energetic teachers. Expected to be
able to build a Relief Society hall this fall
or in the spring.
	Sister Tucker, of Fairview, reported
their ward as being prosperous. Would
soon discontinue sending teachers around
for the winter.
	Sister Libbie Simonson, of Freedom,
said their organization was small, consist-
ing of only nineteen members. Owing to
the limited number it was hard work to

[Column 2]
interest them in it, but hoped to persevere
by persistent effort.
	Sister Stewart, of Milburn, said they had
suffered from floods and drought, but felt
to do the best they possibly could. Had
160 bushels of wheat and were making two
quilts. Had no very poor people in their
ward.
	Sister Hyde, of Salt Lake, brought
greetings from Sister Smith. Said she sent
them this message: “Give them my love,
and tell them to get the Spirit of the Lord
to be with them and to keep it.” Was
pleased to hear the reports. Said her
father was one of those who ordained the
officers of the first Relief Society. When
she was ordained to her present position
President Smith said he wished the Relief
Society to advance in every good thing,
but above all to keep the spirit of the
work. Every pure woman in Zion should
be enrolled in the Relief Society. The
members of the Y. L. M. I. A. and the
Relief Society should mingle and visit one
another more than they do. The older
women will receive inspiration from the
brightness and vivacity of youth, while the
young women in turn will profit by the
experience of their elders. Subjects might
be taken up so that the meetings could be
made instructive and take the place of
clubs and other organizations. One sub-
ject that is of great importance is that of
training children We should seek for the
Spirit of God to assist us in this great
undertaking, that we may know the proper
way to control them We should pray
every day for grace to look inward and
purge ourselves of all evils.
	Sister Farnsworth felt this was the
greatest work we could be engaged in.
Was pleased to see so many brethren
present. Spoke of the Woman’s R. S.
Building, what an advantage it would be
in entertaining the gifted ladies of our
land, and what a benefit to the officers and
visitors from the different parts of
Zion. Said we should seek for the spirit
of the Lord to be our constant companion,
for it is impossible to raise a family proper-
ly without the aid of this.
	Sister Ericksen made a few closing re-
marks. Singing, “Do what is right.”
Benediction by President Matson.
	Afternoon session commencd at 2 p. m.
Singing, “All is well.” Prayer by Presi-
dent C N. Lund. Singing, “O, say what
is truth.”
	Sister Morrison, of Mt. Pleasant, South
Ward, was well pleased with the attend-
ance. All the Mt. Pleasant sisters are
liberal and there is plenty in the treasury
for all the needy if used wisely. The
meetings are quite well attended.
	Candace Wilcox, of Mt. Pleasant North
Ward, said they were trying to do their
duty as they understood it. They had
many poor, but still had considerable in
the treasury.
	Sister Jakeman said she was at one time
secretary of the Relief Society of this Stake
and felt quite at home here. Had taken a
sojourn from home and had the privilege
of explaining the Gospel to many, and
they seemed much interested, especially
with the Relief Society work. Said her
testimony was stronger than it had ever
been before.
	Sister Allred thought to follow the advice
of our aged president, Sister Smith, to get
the Spirit of the Lord and keep it was the
best thing we could do. If we do our
duty He will bless us.

[Column 3]
	Sister Candland was pleased to see so 
many present. Knew we would be blessed
by coming together.
	Sister Farnsworth spoke of an organiza-
tion that had been effected to commemor-
ate the early settlers of this State. They
call themselves the “Daughters of the
Pioneers.”
	Sister Hyde testified to the gift of heal-
ing manifested in behalf of her child. Said
we should lay our burdens before the
Lord and not burden one another with our
troubles.
	President Lund had been very much
edified and was thankful to the sisters for
their wonderful testimonies.
	President W. M. Ericksen made a few
closing remarks. Singing, “Our God we
raise to Thee.” Benediction by Christian
Johansen. Conference adjourned in-
definitely.
		CARRIE L. ERICKSEN, Sec.
SOUTH SANPETE STAKE.
	Minutes of the Relief Society conference
of the South Sanpete Stake of Zion, held in
Gunnison, September 6, 1901, Presi-
dent Alvira Cox presiding. Singing,
“Earth with her ten thousand flowers.”
Prayer by Bishop Madsen. Singing, “O, say
what is truth.” Minutes of the previous
conference read and accepted.
	The various Stakes were reported by 
each president respectively: Ephraim,
(North and South Wards) Sterling, May-
field, Centerfield, Gunnison and Fayette.
	President Alvira Cox said she felt very
much gratified at having such favorable
reports. Reminded those present of their
Stake dues. Felt that the Lord had great-
ly blessed us in answering to the various
calls that are made from time to time.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder, Salt Lake City,
then addressed the conference. Said she
was much pleased in listening to the
reports just given. The Relief Society has
proven itself a valuable institution in this
Church. It is a progressive organization
and a great benefit to humanity. Dwelt
on the importance of having a General
Relief Society building. The demands
made for this purpose perhaps are not fully
understood by those living outside of Salt
Lake City. The Relief Society Central
building will reflect credit on the daughters
of Zion. Spoke of the incorrect ideas
entertained in the world concerning the
Latter-day Saints. Nevertheless the time
will come when the Latter-day Saints will
have to entertain the dignitaries of the
earth, hence the importance of having
suitable places for such purposes. Those
who contribute of their means when calls
are made from time to time will receive a
reward in a time to come, the Lord will
bless them abundantly. We must seek for 
the companionship of the Holy Spirit, that
we may be prepared to bear the trials of
life with fortitude. Spoke of the peaceful 
death of Aunt Zina. Felt that in her
departure she deeply sensed a personal loss.
She had received many encouraging words
from the departed, and those who had
received like consolation would surely
remember it forever. “Aunt Zina is not
dead, but has gone to a higher sphere. 
May we go forth from this conference
with a determination to serve God faithful-
ly, that we, too, may secure an eternal 
salvation in the world to come.
	Conference was then adjourned until 2


p. m. Singing, “Do what is right.”
Benediction, Bishop Fjelsted.
	Afternoon, session opened by singing,
“Should, you feel inclined to censure. ”
Prayer by Sister Mary L. Peterson. Sing-
ing, “O, ye mountains high.”
	“A Word of Greeting,” by Lorenzo
Snow, was read by the secretary.
	A letter written by Sister Emmeline B.
Wells relative to the Relief Society build-
ing was ready Sister Helena Madsen,
after which Counselor Abagail Shoemaker
addressed the conference. Said that we
as members of the Relief Society should
feel determined to assist in this great work.
When the Lord blesses us with means
we should feel willing to give a portion
thereof for the establishment of righteous-
ness in the earth. Exhorted all present to
not fail in contributing to the Relief
Society fund. “Let us strive to instil
faith into the hearts of our children. If
we live lives of purity our prayers will be
answered.” Spoke of the necessity of
storing grain.
	Counselor Jane Bench felt to endorse all
that had been said. Spoke of the benefits
to be derived from attending the Relief
Society meetings. Said she felt these
conferences were productive of much good
and expressed herself as being delighted
with the contemplated Woman’s Building.
Regarded it as an individual duty to assist
in its erection. “Let us strive to do all
that we can.”
	Treasurer Mary T. Peterson hoped we
would profit by the instructions given.
“Let us feel encouraged in the project
before, us, in assisting in the erection of
the Woman’s Building. Let us consider
this a great privileg e.” Said she had
quite recently visited her native land. Felt
great sympathy for the Elders abroad
preaching the Gospel. Prayed we might
be sincere in all our undertakings.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder then addressed
the conference. “It is on account of the
mission of Joseph Smith that we have
been assembled together today.” Sister
Alder said she had just returned from a
European mission. Those inexperienced
in missionary work fail to fully comprehend
the difficulties and perplexities that
missionaries have to contend with. Not-
withstanding their trials the Spirit of God
enables the missionaries to carry on their
work successfully. The speaker had
visited three thousand homes while upon
her mission, and related some very inter-
esting and pleasing incidents connected
therewith. Outlined the p[-]oposed
Woman’s Building and said we should
endeavor to support the calls made- from
time to time, and even be willing to place
all upon the altar of sacrifice. Concluded
her remarks by bearing a strong testimony
to the truth of the Gospel.
	President Alvira Cox made appropriate
closing remarks after which conference
adjourned for six months, to be held in
Manti.
	Singing, “We thank Thee, O God, for
a Prophet.” Benediction by Giles Embley.
		Etta Anderson, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting was
held in the 14th ward hall, September 26,
1901, at 2 o’clock, President M. I. Horne
presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing “O Jesus,

[Column 2]
the Giver.” Prayer by Sister J. S.
Woolley. Song, "How will the Saints
rejoice to tell.” Minutes read and approved.
	President Horne felt we would be blessed
though we are few in number, said those
who come together are fed and blessed
by the Spirit of God. Felt the more we
talk and read of spiritual things, the more
we have of the Spirit of God. We find
this in reading the Book of Mormon.
Recommended all to read the Doctrine and
Covenants as this is his word to us today.
Every blessing is comprised in the Gospel,
both spiritual and temporal. Said she
had recently attended a Relief Society
conference at Nephi where a good spirit pre-
vailed.
	Sister B. W. Smith said she always liked
to be encouraged and not scolded, that she
liked to associate with the cream of the
earth and she felt she found them here
that she was sure Sister Zina was happy
where she is, that she could not shed a
tear except for the loss of her society.
"Let us prove by our works our sincerity
to God.”
	Sister Brown spoke of the pleasure she
had in meeting here in the 14th Ward.
Felt there were thousands of good sisters,
but wondered why more did not attend
more faithfully to their duties.
	The congregation sang, "May we who
know the joyful sound.”
	Sister Barrow felt this is the true
Gospel. She wished to set a good example
before her people. Felt if we call upon the
Elders in faith we will always receive a
blessing at their hands.
	Sister Southern said she wished to be a
Latter-day Saint. Sister Matison bore her
testimony.
	The congregation sang "Praise to the
man who communed with Jehovah.”
	Sister Palmer felt we will be blessed if
we live according to the testimonies we
bear, and that it is a great responsibility
we have.
	Sisters Brooks and Moody bore their
testimonies, felt the hand of the Lord had
been over them for good all their lives,
they received many blessings every day.
Felt we should have faith in the Lord
when we are sick and he will heal us.
	Two other sisters bore testimonies and
said we must remember our actions and
words are watched by angels, that the
testimony we bear on earth we must meet
in heaven.
	Sister Mary Morris said the Lord blesses
us as we bless others.
	Sister Barnes considered these meetings
as a school. Sister Stevenson spoke of the
temptations that are around us, and we
should be indeed careful. Said “Let us
exert ourselves to have wisdom in setting
examples and giving words of counsel to
our young people. Spoke of the beautiful
spirit that reigns in Orderville, (where she
had just visited) of the love that prevails
there. Said she knew that President
Snow was a prophet of God. She had
visited Cassia Stake since our last meeting
and the sisters there were filled with love
for one another.
	Sister Paul felt to acknowledge the hand
of the Lord in answering her prayers in
her grandson’s conversion to the truth and
many other things. Said Sister Zina gave
her such a blessing that she had never
received from any other mortal.
	A sister from Orderville bore her testi-
mony. Said she had come to Salt Lake

[Column 3]
City to work in the Temple, that she
always loved to live in the order that was
preached there many years.
	President Horne spoke for a few minutes
on the power that is given to Satan, that
the very elect will be almost deceived.
Said we should always be led by the
whisperings of the Spirit. The Lord gives
us blessings as we seek for them.
	Meeting adjourned for four weeks.
Singing, Doxology. Benediction by Lydia
D. Alder.
L. D. ALDER, Sec. pro tem.


UTAH WOMAN’S PRESS CLUB.
FIRST DECADE OF ITS ORGANIZATION.
	The Young Woman’s Journal, a monthly 
magazine, was started in the interest of the
young women of the Territory, in October
1889, with Susa Young Gates as editor.
Lucy A. Clark, one of the charter mem-
bers of the Press Club, was for two or
three years editor of the Farmington Flash-
light. Others are doing a good work on
the same lines who are not named, their
labors not having been specially mentioned.
Among Utah’s best poets is Dr. Ellis R.
Shipp, who has written much that has the
true poetic fire and spirit. 
	Among those first mentioned is Lula
Greene Richards, first editor of the
EXPONENT. She was married the next
year after its publication to L. W. Rich-
ards. Soon after Miss Cornelia S. Horne
was made business manager of the paper.
Mrs. Richards’ home duties increased, and
several of the contributors of the paper
offered assistance, among them was Mrs. E.
B. Wells.
	In May, 1875, Mrs. Wells assumed
regular duty in the office. Later Miss
Horne resigned her position for a higher
one in a home of her own. In July, 1877,
Mrs. Richards vacated the editorial 
chair in favor of Mrs. Wells. One of our
best prose and poetical writers is Augusta
Joyce Crocheron, who has published three
books, one of them a book of poems. She
is very happy in her descriptions of every
day happenings. She is especially good in
essays, stories, either long or short, and has
written various articles as well as biogra-
phical sketches She also excels where
thought is required and elegant expression.
	Lu Dalton and Mrs. M. A. Y. Greenhalgh,
(the last named is an Englishwoman, and
an extensive traveler in foreign countries)
are forcible and interesting writers. Emily
H. Woodmansee is one of the most gifted
and inspirational poets of Utah. Ruby
Lamont and Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson (the
doctor was educated in Cambridge Eng.)
especially bright and gifted,
	Helen Mar Whitney and Lulu Greene
Richards are poets, and both are classed
among the spiritual and inspiring writers,
their views in all their writings being
decidedly religious. Susa Young Gates is
spoken of as a most prolific writer.
	Among the younger writers, who give
promise of future excellence, are Annie
Wells Cannon (Camilla) who has traveled
in Germany and Switzerland. She has
written graphic and realistic descriptions of
her experiences while abroad.
	Miss Josephine Spencer is a poet and
certainly excels in description; is good at
stories, and has won several prizes. Lillie
T. Freeze and Julia P. M. Farnsworth
deserve mention as treating their subjects


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
extremely well. Mary A. Freeze and Lucy
A. Clark have both written poems of merit
and are good descriptive writers, also lofty
and religious. Julia I. McDonald is an
unusually genial writer, and much is ex
pected of her in the future. Flora L. Shipp
is gifted as an imaginative writer. Sarah
E. Russell has contributed largely to our
home magizines. Mary Ellen Kimball,
Wilmerth East and Mary A. House are
logical, religious and patriotic writers.
	There are many others, who cannot be
mentioned in this short article, but we
must mention Dr. Romania B. Pratt, who
writes not only scientific articles, but those
that require comprehensive thought.
	Dr. M. Hughes Cannon, B. S., is a
gifted Utah writer, especially in lofty
themes, as well as happy in description.
	Ellen Lee Jakeman has worked at type-
setting, publishing and writing articles on
almost all subjects. She is a correspondent
for papers and magazines in Salt Lake as
well as Eastern and Western papers.
	Mattie H. Tingey, Gladys Woodman-
see, Alice E. Horne, Lizzie H. Shipp,
Emma Ellerbeck, Emily Clowes, Isabel
Sears, Sophy Valentine, Aretta Young,
Vina H. Tingey, Minnie J. Snow, Mary
A. Farnsworth and Zina S. Whitney rep-
resent a large number of young women of
whom much is expected in the future.
	The outlook for literary work among
women is encouraging, and it is thought
that the West will be equal with, if it does
not excel the East in progress and advance-
ment towards the higher education and
development of mankind.
	At the meeting held November 29, Mrs.
Nellie C. Taylor, and Mrs. Elizabeth
Stevenson were admitted to the club as
members. 
	At the meeting held March 16, 1894, Mrs.
H. A. Badger, Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson, Miss
Maude Pratt, Miss Pearl Russell, Miss Olea
Shipp, of Salt Lake, and Mrs. Fannie
Stewart, of Pleasant Grove, were voted in
as members.
	At the April meeting the name of Mrs.
A. E. Bennion appears, she having given
a lecture on the “Will.”
	The June meeting was by vote, with the
exception of the musical selection, turned
into an informal reception to the Countess
Wachmeister and Mrs. Egbert Roberts, who
accompanied her, the ladies desiring an
address from the guest of the evening.
	The Countess preferred the members to
ask questions so that she might give the
information thus elicited. She was very
obliging and explained her views on
Theosophy very clearly.
	Several of the ladies availed themselves
of this opportunity to learn something of a
religion comparatively new in the West,
but old as heathen philosophy in the East.
	“Theosophy,” the countess said, “is a
grand brotherhood; all religions contain
some of its principles It has no organiza-
tion.”
	At the July meeting Mesdames J. B.
Lawler, Isabella Cameron Brown, Emma

[Column 2]
Holling and Laura Hyde were received as
members. A letter was read from Nevada
V. Davis, a member who is now in the
East, engaged on the New York Herald.
	At the Annual meeting this year the
ladies impersonated famous people of the
past, either writers or characters. On
motion of Miss Ada Patterson Mrs. E. B.
Wells was made Honorary President of
the club for life. Carried.
	At the December meeting Hon. Phoebe
Cousins, of St. Louis, gave a very interest-
ing lecture on Woman’s Rights, also spoke
on the late silver trouble in Colorado.
	At the January meeting, 1895, the Con-
stitution and by-laws were read by the
secretary. Then each by-law was read
separately. A few changes were made,
but practically they remained as before.
Hattie B. Harker and Rebecca H. Doolan
were received as members.
	At the March meeting, by previous
arrangement, both the U. W. P. C. and
the Reapers’ club met at the residence of
Dr. E. R. Shipp, to greet Mrs. Wells on
her return from the Council of Women,
also Dr. E. R. Shipp, who accompanied
her. The Council was held in Washing-
ton, D. C., Utah had been well rep-
presented. A paper on the Sixth Sense,
by Sarah M. Kimball had been read, also
one on “Heredity,” by Dr. Shipp, and
“Forty Years in the Valiev of the Salt
Lake,” by Mrs. E. B. Wells.
	At the April meeting the two clubs
united in giving a reception to the officers
of the Utah Federation of Woman’s Clubs.
There were present Mrs. Corinne Allen,
president; Mrs. McVicker, secretary; Mrs.
Georgie Webber, treasurer; Mrs Ferdinand
Fabian and Miss Mary Teasdale.
	Mrs. H. S. Young, who had proffered
the use of her home, was a very entertain-
ing hostess. The affair was in every way
a pleasant one and the evening was
agreeably spent.
	Mrs. Lizzie Stevenson Wilcox was
selected from the Press Club and gave
“Women in Journalism,” at the annual
meeting of the Federation of Clubs held in
Ogden, May 28.
	The question of a double money stand-
ard for America was taken up and dis-
cussed. In the debate the affirmative won.
	The November meeting, after a short
program had been rendered, was, by sus-
pension of the rules, turned into a reception
to the Misses Chase of Boston, who were
present on the occasion. Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young and Mrs. E. B. Wells made speeches
of welcome, and the guests of honor spoke
at some length upon their travels through
the old and new world, from the snowy
Alps to the orange groves of California
from the plains of California to the vol-
canoes of Honolulu, depicting many
interesting things and sights in eloquent
language, then paying a glowing tribute to
glories of Salt Lake valley, with its charm-
ing sunsets and snow-capped mountains,
equal, they said, to the grandeur of the
Alps.
			(Continued.)


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
	much as possible for you money.					TRY US.

[Column 2]
OFFICIAL NOTICE.
	The Stake Secretaries of the Relief
Society and the Secretary of each mission
or branch not yet included in a Stake,
whether in our own or in foreign countries,
are hereby officially notified to carefully
prepare correct statistical and financial
reports for the current year from January
1, 1901, to December 31, 1901. These
reports must be forwarded to the General
Secretary, at the office of the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT, Salt Lake City, Utah, early
in February, if possible, so that a complete
report of this great organization may be
ready at least ten days before the General
Conference in April, 1902. Address,
			EMMELINE B. WELLS,
					General Secretary.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest sayings
	bank n Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol- 
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

The Most Convenient Local Train Service
In the State is given by the . . . . .
Oregon Short Line
	Railroad
FIVE Fast Daily Trains Each Way between
Salt Lake City and Ogden. . . . . .

Se that your tickets read via the
				“SHORT LINE”
						And Get the best 

CITY TICKET OFFICE for tickets to all points, 100 West
	Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.

S. W. Eccles,		D. E. Burley,
	Gen Tfc. Mgr.		G. P. & T.


Woman's Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation
Vol. 30   SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 1, 1902  No. 10


CONTENTS.
National Council President’s Letter......
......Fannie Humphreys Gaffney 

Jennie June Croly......L. D. Blake 

Birthday and Surprise......Emily G. Cluff 

An Evening With Mrs. Croly......

Seventy-Seventh Anniversary......A Guest 

An Interesting Letter......S. L. Phillips 

Party at Hooper......Catharine Naisbitt 

In Memoriam......

R. S. Reports......

Utah Woman’s Press Club......L. D. Alder 

Editorial—Official Notice......

	The Seventh of March, 1902......

	Mrs. F. D. Richards Party......

	Two Social Gatherings......

	Brief Sketch of Sister P. C. Young......

Poetry—Hassan’s Proverb......James Buckham 

	Midwinter......Selected 

	Now are we the Sons of God......N. 

	Love’s Song......L.Taylor


HASSAN'S PROVERB.
King Hassan, well beloved, was wont to say,
When aught went wrong, or any labor failed:
"Tomorrow, friends, will be another day!"
And in that faith he slept, and so prevail'd.

Long live this proverb! While the world shall
	roll
Tomorrow fresh shall rise from out the night,
And new baptize the indomitable soul,
With courage for its never-ending fight.

No one, I say, is conquer'd till he yields,
And yield he need not while, like mist from
	glass,
God wipes the stain of life's old battlefields
From every morning that he brings to pass.

New day, new hope, new courage! Let this be,
O soul, thy cheerful creed. What's yesterday
With all its shars and wrack and grief to thee?
Forget it then—here lies the victor's way.
JAMES BUCKHAM.


MIDWINTER.
The white hath overspread the brown,
	Beneath the blue has crept the gray;
The frozen air is drifting round
	In eddies dashed with blinding spray.

Upon so wild a winter scene
	But thou and I have chanced to meet,
What words were fit to pass between
	A traveler rough and one so sweet?

Poor dying songster, full of woes,
	With stiffening pinions loosely furled,
That graspeth with thy thorny toes
	The wire that runs around the world!

Thou knowest not the grief and mirth
	With which the iron thread is fraught,
As one may grasp, but miss the worth
	Of some far-reaching line of thought.

Thou scannest not our human things,
	Thine eyelids close upon the world,
The snow sifts downward through thy wings,
	And upward to thy heart is whirled.

Beneath its inches cold and white
	Thy mate lies frozen near the hedge,
And nevermore in tuneful flight
	Shall cross the morning's crimson edge.

Recallest how, one dewy dawn,
	Ere yet the sun had kissed thy throat,
The music of thy heart had gone
	That won her shy, responsive note?

How fond ye whispered, breast to breast,
	That day within the covert green,
Or sought the brook with mosses drest,
	Your hot and dusty wings to preen.

Then, in the hush of coming night,
	Thou ledst her to the fragrant bed
Of apple blossoms, pink and white,
	With canopy of green o'erhead.


All summer long how true thy zest
To note her flight o’er many a rood,
To build with her the secret nest,
To mourn with her the stolen brood.

Now, thou art dying; dead is thine,
In some bright clime are all thy kin.
Let thy true life pass into mine,
And make it what it hath not been.

Bequeath to me thy lover’s heart,
And touch my spirit with thy fate,
That I from one may never part,
Nor even in death be separate.
SELECTED.


NATIONAL COUNCIL PRESIDENT'S
LETTER.
	The Christmas season is with us with all
its reminder of hope and promise. "Peace
on Earth, Good will to Man."
	How much is embodied in this saying!
It has been quoted for eighteen hundred
years, yet the world has not yet inter-
preted it! We have a faint perception that
it means something beyond accomplish-
ment and too Utopian to be even attempted.
We go on repeating it, and we admire it
as a sentiment, but are bewildered by the
difference between its meaning as our soul
interprets it, and the actual condition of
life and events about us. We hear the
clergy praying that our soldiers may be
blessed, and safely return to us successful
in their mission. They pray also that the
day may come when all war shall cease;
but we are not boldly persuaded by these
teachers—that War is a sin and to engage
in it wicked and against the simplest
principles of Christianity.
	"Thou Shalt Not Kill."
	"Love Thy Neighbor as Thyself."
	How far have we progressed in inter-
preting these commandments since Moses
wrote them on stone? Written on stone
have they also fallen for eighteen hundred
years on stony hearts, or been unseen or
unread?
	Let us not in our Christmas cheer forget
those outside chee[-]. Let us remember the
unfortunate victims of war everywhere,
but most especially the Boer women and
children herded in the Concentration
camps in South Africa. Let us not cease
to denounce war and all its horrible con-
sequences. Let us not only repeat "Peace
on Earth," but let us endeavor by our
every act to produce it.
	May all the blessings of the season be
with our members, and may we also be
ready to assume the responsibilities which
fall to each human being uplifted by bless-
ings, namely, to "pass on the blessings to
others.
FANNIE HUMPHREYS GAFFNRY.


Mrs. Kate Upton Clark, the well known
story writer and popular lecturer to club-
women, has prepared for the D R. and
D. A. R. chapters a lecture called “An
Obscure Heroine of the Revolution,” deal-
ing with the life of her great grandmother,
Bridget Munroe Maxwell, and taken from
forty or fifty of her great grandfather’s
letters.


JENNIE JUNE CROLY.
	The death of Mrs. Jennie June Croly
has been deeply felt by the clubs of New
York, and no doubt by club women
throughout the land. A special service
was held on Monday at the Waldorf Asto-
ria. It was under the auspices of Sorosis,
of which Mrs. Croly was the first active
president, holding office for two years, and
later occupying the chair for ten years in
succession. The Press Club, of which she
had been president for eight years, joined
in the celebration. The meeting was held
in the Astor gallery. Across the middle
of the lower side the platform was placed
at which the officers of Sorosis sat. The
banner of the club hung above the presi-
dent’s seat, and below it a portrait of Mrs.
Croly surrounded with roses. The seats
were placed in a curve fronting the plat-
form, and in the great crowd which filled
the room were representatives of almost
every club of women in the city. Mrs.
Denis K. Denison, president of Sorosis,
presided, and the exercises opened by the
singing of “The Lost Chord,” by Mrs.
Stutsman, who thus fulfilled a wish of
Mrs. Croly’s made just before her death.
Mrs Charlotte B. Wilbour, who succeeded
Mrs. Croly at the end of her first term as
president, delivered a thoughtful address
on her character and life work. She was
followed by Rev. Phoebe Hannaford, vice-
president of the Press Club, who told of
her faithful labors in founding and sustain-
ing the body. Other addresses were by
Mrs. Cornelius Zabriski, president of the
State Federation of Women’s Clubs, Mrs.
Hugh Reed Griffen, of London, and Mrs.
Cynthia Westover Alden, an officer of the
Press Club. Mrs. May Riley Smith read
an original poem, “Into the Silence,” and
Mme. Van Klemmer of the Press Club
sang.—Lillie Devereux Blake in the 
Woman’s Journal.


BIRTHDAY AND SURPRISE.
	President Mary John, of the Relief Soci-
ety of Utah Stake, invited her own family,
to her home, December 23, 1901, it being
her seventieth birthday, and while assem-
bled she was surprised by a party of half a
hundred, who came to honor and show their
love and appreciation of her,
	The officers of the Relief Society, Stake
and Provo Wards, the Y. L. M. I. A. and
Primary officers, with their friends, went
en masse and surprised their beloved
president.
	After hand shaking and congratulations
a program was carried out. Singing, “We
thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.”
Prayer by President David John. Singing,
“O, my Father.” Then a little recess for
visiting, after which President David John
gave a very appropriate address, praising
the sisters for their diligence in performing
their duties and labors of love. In his
mind he could not look upon man in any
position without woman, his wife, being
associated with him. He could not picture
anything in heaven, aside from the Father


[Column 1]
on the throne, then a woman clothed in
immortality and the robes of purity and
dignity. Remarked that he and Sister
John had lived happily together for forty-
one years.
	Sister Marilla Daniels congratulated
Brother and Sister John. Sister John,
our president, on her seventieth birthday.
	She had known Sister John for many
years and was thankful for her acquaint-
ance, valued her as one of the dearest and
truest friends. Spoke of Brother Joseph,
the prophet, saying he had done much for
the progress of women, and it meant all
womankind, everywhere in the world.
Spoke of the women of the world, how they
sacrificed their own comfort for the benefit
of others. She remembered well the first
time she ever saw Brother Joseph, she was
so inspired with everything he said or did.
She often went to his home and associated
with his family. His mind was constantly
busy, he would come home to his family
and friends at intervals. He was greatly
harrassed by persecution. Spoke of the
great work he accomplished in so short a
time. She blessed the sisters and asked
the Lord to bless us all.
	Sister Joanna Billings felt that Sister John
was one of the chosen ones. She congra-
tulated President John on having such a
noble companion, and that his wives had
reared up a good family, who would never
bring the blush of shame, to their faces. She,
too, was acquainted with the Prophet, and
looked upon him with admiration. He had
the most noble bearing of any man she had
ever seen. She had been lead along in this
Church, and had never doubted the author-
ty of each of his successors. She believed
the Relief Society would be perpetuated
and we would find plenty to do on the other
side. Blessed us all.
	Sister Percia Bunnell said every time she
met with the sisters she felt uplifted. “Do
we realize fully, my sisters, the privilege we
enjoy in meeting with sisters who have the
Spirit of the Lord upon them?” She had
been blessed and healed many times under
the administration of the sisters.
	Sister Emily Cluff appreciated the kind-
ness of Sister John during the time of the
crusade, and said many good things of her
kindness and nobility of character.
	Sister Johnson spoke of her acquaintance
with Sister John and Her appreciation of her
advice in her duty of presiding in the First
Ward, Provo.
	Sister Brown, of the Second Ward, said
Sister John had always been a wise counselor
to the Relief Society sisters. There were so
few living today who were acquainted, per-
sonally, with the Prophet. She felt to cherish
every word that pertained to him. Hoped
that we would all fill our positions in right-
eousness.
	Eliza Taylor, president of the Third Ward,
said she had been associated with the Sisters
John, Sister Mary and Sister Jane, had
worked with them both in the organizations,
and she knew them to love them. She had
once dreamed of seeing the Prophet Joseph
Smith, and he told her that the principle of
plural marriage was verily true. She felt
that she would know him when she met him.
Her trials had made her a better woman.
“May we all claim the blessings that have
been promised us, is my prayer. Amen.”
	Sister Margaret Watson, Fourth Ward,
had known and loved Brother and Sister
John since 1863, and she felt to bless them
and all assembled.

[Column 2]
	Sister Donnie Mecham, president of the
Y. L. M. I. A., prayed the choicest blessings
of heaven upon President John and his
whole family.
	Sister Cornelia Clayton, of the Primary
Association, said she prayed that Sister John
would have a renewal of life, and be able to
fill this honorable position of “Mother of
Mothers” in Zion. She had always had a
great desire to meet the Prophet Joseph. As
children they used to sit around the fire and
hear their father and mother talk of the
Prophet Joseph.
	Sister Jane John felt that Sister Mary was
greatly blessed in being born on the
Prophet’s birthday. She had known Sister
Mary before she was married, and they had
lived together in union. They had helped
each other.
	Sisters Agnes Farrer and John passed
through the sacred places together. She
felt thankful to associate with her and sisters.
She remembered having her bonnet trimmed
with black to mourn for the Prophet, and it
was the cause of much testimony of Joseph
to their associates When she was a child
eight years old she had seen the holy dress
of this people, just as she found it later.
“May God bless, us all. Amen.”
	Sister Malena Wilkins had known Brother
and Sister John for forty-one years. Felt it
an honor to be at her seventieth birthday.
The Prophet Joseph had blessed her when
she was a child. She had shed many tears
when reading of the great trials endured by
the Prophet, he had no peace all his life.
	Sister Benjamin Cluff addressed President
John and the society, and appreciated the
privilege of being here. She knew the
Prophet Joseph and had known all of the
succeeding prophets. She felt that President
John and his wives had been greatly blessed
in rearing their families in the celestial order
of marriage. She had been a Relief Society
worker for many years, had been greatly
blessed in her labors. She had had many
advantages and for twenty years she had one
or more of her children in the mission field.
The Latter-day Saint women could take
more true happiness than any others.
Prayed the Lord to bless this Stake and all
that belonged to them.
	Sister Electa Bullock thought that Brother
and Sister John were the loveliest couple
she had ever met when she first came to
Provo, and she had not changed her opinion
yet. Spoke of the great power that was in
the Tabernacle meeting the day before. She
felt like shouting hallelujah! She remem-
bered the Prophet Joseph Smith, was nine
years old when he was martyred. She re-
membered her first sight of the Prophet,
thought this a most auspicious occasion.
“May Sister John live long to be a blessing
to the Relief Society as well as to her
family.
	Sister Knudsen spoke of the son (David
John, Jun.) of this worthy couple, who was
on a mission at the present time.
	Brother Joseph Keeler, Counselor to
President John, spoke of the duties of the
Relief Society. “We could do more good as
an organized society than we could un-
organized. While we are assisting our
neighbors we assist ourselves. We cannot
build ourselves up alone, we are dependent
upon others as well as upon the Lord. Sis-
ter John is just the same good looking
matron that she was thirty years ago.”
Wished her many happy rerurns of the day.
One great consolation was that we should
meet in the other world, this life was only a

[Column 3]
little niche cut out of Eternity. We should
love each other and our fellow men forever.
“May God grant us this blessing. Amen.”
	Sister Susa Y. Gates congratulated Sister
John. Spoke of President Young saying
that the life of this people should be pro-
longed, and that Sister John enjoyed the
distinction of being loved by all, not having
any enemies. President George Q. Cannon
said one thing he longed for was the love of
his brothers and sisters, and that had been
in a measure withheld from him. To love
all was one of the greatest gifts bestowed
upon any one. She knew of no one more
beloved by women than President John was.
She knew something of the hindrances that
women often met with, all the work of
women and men on this earth is to help
others. Help to lift the burdens of others and
ours will slip away. What would this
Church be without the organizations for
women? Said she was going out into the
world, and it was a great sorrow to her to
leave her mountain home. Asked the sisters
to always remember them while they were
away in the world. Each one of us can do
much good. Prayed for Sister John, that
she might live as long as life was sweet unto
her. The richness of the blessings of the
Lord would be ever poured out upon Brother
and Sister John and their children.
	Sister Olive Bean thought of the many
opportunities we have to know each other.
Realized the trial it was for Sister Gates to
leave us. In 1868, when the Smoot family
came to Provo, Brother and Sister John were
among her first acquaintances in Provo.
Blessed Brother and Sister John and their
family.
	Brother Harvey H. Cluff congratulated
Sister John on her seventieth birthday, sur-
rounded by this august assembly of women
and the few favored brethren who were
here. Spoke of his experience as a mission-
ary away from home, and had found much
consolation in fasting and prayer in all of his
great trials. The sweet testimony of the
Holy Spirit called down upon us by fasting and
prayer was the sweetest that could be ex-
perienced.
	Sister Mary John tried to express her
appreciation of the true expressions of love
that had been given her today. She loved
her neighbors and every body. She was
very glad for all these blessings, and she was
too full of emotions to say more. She
blessed all present in the name of the Lord.
	Sister Holbrook spoke of what good, true
neighbors Brother and Sister John had been
to her when they first came to Provo sixteen
years ago. Brother Holbrook sent his re-
gards and regretted that he could not be
present.
	Sister Mary Boyden who had with the
assistance of the amiable daughters and sons
of the family managed this beautiful gather-
ing and arranged the program, invited the
guests into a sumptuous banquet, to which all
did ample justice, and partook of with
thankful hearts.
				EMILY C. CLUFF.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


“Miss Dorothea Klumpke, the American
astronomer who has been connected with
the Paris observatory during the past ten
or twelve years, has married and moved to
England. Her husband, Dr. Isaac Roberts,
has charge of an observatory at Starfield in
Sussex, and long since won distinction
through his work in celestial photography.
Miss Klumpke was a native of San Fran-
cisco.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
.


For the EXPONENT.
"NOW ARE WE THE SONS OF GOD!”
How grand are the thoughts that this secret in-
	spires,
When sealed by the Spirit that comes from
	above;
How humbly we ask that its all-searching fires,
May burn up earth’s dross with unquenchable
	love.

Weak, sinful, forgetful, indifferent, dead,
To the truths of life’s being His wisdom supplies;
Man turns from the light. from the sun overhead,
To the caverns of darkness, tradition and lies!

Self-satisfied, passive, ’mid cobwebs of yore,
As woven by priests and polemical schools;
Assuming, presuming, asserting far more,
Than was ever revealed to Satanical tools!

But a ray from the Infinite entered at last,
That crevice unseen by the critics around;
Like a plant of the tropics, that ray spread so fast,
It illumined the age, as it flashed without sound.

Superstition, tradition, old error amazed,
Fought a desperate fight, for past prestige and
	power;
Persecution and martyrdom told a world crazed,
But the splendor of Truth waxed grander each
	hour.

Today in old lands it is winning its way,
For it conquers and saves as the Father decreed;
All darkness must flee in that fast coming day,
When the Gospel and kingdom shall triumph
	indeed.
N.


LOVE’S SONG.

	I saw a youth and maiden
		Upon a pleasant day,
	Their hearts responsive beating
		To raptures of the May.
	Young buds with fragrance waited
		To great them on their way.
	Sweet birdies carol d gladness
		From every bush and spray.
So happy were al they needs must sing;
"Oh welcome, oh welcome, lovely spring!
The earth is fresh and flowers gay,
And love is love in joyous May.”

	I saw two happy beings
		Whose lives were made complete, 
	For scenes of summer beauty,
		Of wreaths and roses sweet.
	Bright autumn’s golden harvest
		Of luscious fruits and grain,
	And winter’s hoary whiteness
		All breathed the soft refrain:
‘‘Oh, love, thou gift to mortals given,
Thou gift which flows from out of heaven,
Each gentle word, each tender thought,
By thy sweet spirit, love, is taught.”
	I saw two white robed angels
		Upon that far-off shore,
	Where earthly scenes had vanished
		And earthly trial is o'er;
	With crowns of glory resting
		Upon each peaceful brow,
	This holy anthem peeling— 
		(I hear it even now.)
‘‘Oh, love, thou love which e’er endureth!
The angels’ song the theme immureth;
Though life and time no more shall be,
Thou lasteth through eternity.”
				L. Taylor.


[Column 1]
AN EVENING WITH MRS. CROLY.
	I was privileged to be the guest of her-
self and her daughters, Vida and Alice—
both now married, and Alice now living in
England—in their home which Mrs. Croly
owned in Forty-first street. It was a
handsome home, and thither every Sunday
evening the cream of literary, artistic and
social New York would repair, crowding
the rooms, giving of their best, meeting
kindred souls in a manner that savored not
the slightest of Bohemianism; for with that
spirit Mrs. Croly had nothing to do. It
was there one certain Sunday I stood, a
unit in an admiring group about the late
Col. Robert Ingersoll, while he soared a bit
for us, teasing the most narrow-minded

[Column 2]
of the women who were harkening to this
secular Chrysostom because of his melli-
fluous speech while their consciences
gave them warning; and beside him his
youngest daughter, in memory the most
beautiful woman I ever saw, (now Mrs.
Browne) stately in white satin, her intel-
lectual face, glowing in pride of her father,
classic in outline beneath her rippling light
brown hair. There were the Kendals, too
Mr. Kendal grave and very English; Mrs.
Kendal portly and handsome. Moncure
D. Conway was rearing his head with
pride and saying, “I am a Virginian”—it
was all I caught, as I was being led away
to the group of young girls basking in the
sunniness of Ella Wheeler Wilcox and her
friend, Fannie Edgar Thomas, later dis-
tinguished for her Paris letters on musical
subjects, and Marshal P. Wilder told
stories, and Bronson Howard stood around
looking important, and Bijou Fernandez
revelled in her sweet prettiness, ard there
were a whole school of poets and a covey
of singing birds beside. And Mrs. Croly,
the simplest-mannered of all, moved about
making everyone happy without officious-
ness, introducing just the right people to
each other, and adding the word-link
needed to make a true conversation. She
was such a tiny woman, quite wrinkled,
less from age than from focussing her eyes
in her myopia, so that she read with her
head strained low over book or letter; and
her mail obligations every morning at
breakfast used to make me quail f[-]r her!
But she burrowed through it all in her
pur-blindness, because no one could
understand so readily as herself the needs
of this correspondent and that, nor did she
permit even her children to know which
among the number received her charity or
her counsel.
	Those days have passed with their
pageants of great personages, the applause
of women, the honor of her clubs, the
quietness of her own home, the journal-
istic activities that gave her precedence
among all living writing women. The
friction of her life was stimulating to her;
the disappointments and reverses must
have crushed her in this her seventy-third
year far more than in all that foreran it.
Dear “Jennie June” has attained the great
bourne, and posterity—for she will live
while women progress and remember to
be grateful—shall know her by her fruits.
And if these blessed voyagers ever do come
back to the terrene plane—and who will
say with certainty that they do not? one of
these days the women who love her of that
united Sorosis daughterhood of which Mrs.
Croly was the faithful mother, sitting in
council together, may listen with their
consciousness, rather than with their ears,
to the memorial roll call and hear her
gentle answer, “Adsum,”—“Here.”—Ex.


SEVENTY-SEVENTH ANNIVERSARY.
	January 2, 1902, was the seventy-seventh
anniversary of the birth of Sister Joannah
Eggertsen and many of her friends gath-
ered at her comfortable and hospitable
home in the Second Ward, Provo, to show
their love and respect for her
	During the afternoon and evening an
entertaining program was carried out, con-
sisting of singing and speaking and a de-
licious lunch was served.
	Sister Eggertsen’s friends testified of her
goodness and their love and appreciation
of her many good qualities.


Her sons and daughters were present to
assist in doing honor to their aged and
beloved mother and bore testimony of the
true and faithful mother she had been.
	Miss Clara Cluff, our talented young
musician, who lately returned from Ger-
many, is a granddaughter of Sister Eggert-
sen. Others of the grand children who
were present assisted in entertaining the
guests with lovely songs and recitations
	Sister Eggertsen came with her husband
to Provo in an early day and passed
through those privations and sufferings
familiar to many who have had similar
experiences.
	After a well spent life Brother Eggertsen
passed away, about one year ago.
	Sister Eggertsen although having
reached such an advanced age is not at all
feeble, and surrounded as she is by chil-
dren and grandchildren who love and
reverence her, can still enjoy life and the
blessings which she so well deserves.
	Of Sister Eggertsen it can truly be said
“Her children rise up and call her blessed.”
	Bishop S. P. Eggertsen, her son, pre-
sided in his usual genial manner, and the
assembled guests, numbering about seventy
five, expressed themselves as having had
one of the most enjoyable times of their
lives.				A GUEST.


AN INTERESTING LETTER.
My Dear Sister:
	Thinking you would be pleased to hear
of the progress of the Relief Society in the
St. Joseph Stake, I will give you a synop-
sis of our last conference, which convened
December 27, 1901 It was a very cold
and windy day, notwithstanding this we
had a good attendance, some traveling fif-
teen miles.
	There were present of the Priesthood,
President Andrew Kimball, Counselor
Wm. D. Johnson and Patriarch John Tay
lor.
	President Elizabeth Layton encouraged
the sisters to be diligent and faithful to
their duties. Spoke on silk culture, the
Woman’s Building and taking the
EXPONENT.
	Local presidents reported their branches
of the Relief Society in good condition,
and striving to do all that was required of 
them.
	Stake presidency and aids visit some
wards most every month.
	Statistical and financial reports were read
by Stake Secretary Selena Phillips. We
have 1,051 bushels of wheat on hand. We
have disbursed from our Stake treasury
$134.90 for charitable purposes, aside from
the local ward disbursements.
	President Andrew Kimball addressed
the conference. The subjects spoken on
were retrenchment, storing of grain, tith-
ing, self-sustaining and proper employ-
ment for our children.
	President Wm. D. Johnson encouraged
home industries and economy; also bore
testimony that President Andrew Kimball
had preached a Gospel sermon today.
	Conference closed with a good spirit pre-
vailing.
	Please remember me kindly to our new
presidency, as I have known Sister Bath-
sheba W. Smith ever since I can remem-
ber, and Sister Annie T. Hyde used to be
a Sunday School teacher in the Fourteenth
Ward when I attended Sunday School.
	SELENA L. PHILLIPS, Stake Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

Woman's Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpa[--]e
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal d[-]s-
count to regular advertisers.
	Exponent office Room 507 Templeton South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			Mrs. E. B. WELLS, 
				Salt Lake City, Utah
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
second-class matter.

Salt Lake City, Utah, February 1902.


OFFICIAL NOTICE. 
Beloved Sisters:
	In consideration of the seventeenth of 
March next, 1902, being the sixtieth
anniversary of the first organization of the
Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph
Smith, in Nauvoo, Illinois, March 17,
1842, the General Officers of the society
have thought it advisable to make the
day a special occasion of thanksgiving and
rejoicing. We therefore have decided to
make an official call on all presidents of
organizations in the society here and else-
where throughout the world to take the
initiative in this undertaking, calling to
their aid such help or committees as may
be deemed necessary in preparing for a
gathering to celebrate the day. An inter-
esting program suitable to such gatherings
might be arranged, bringing in the best
talent available in the respective society.
Any veterans in Relief Society work should
be remembered on such occasions as
these; brief historical sketches of some of
the great leaders in the movement, past
and present, might be an appropriate part
of the program if thought proper, and
the teachings and instructions of the 
Prophet Joseph to the Relief Society are
always suggestive and profitable to read on
memorable occasions.
	We also think it advisable that the
young women be invited to take part and
assist in making the affair a success all
around. An invitation should be extended
to presiding officers and Bishops and breth-
ren, old and young, to participate in the
entertainment.
	The ten cent membership fee should
also be made a feature of the gathering, as
it is expected every one will subscribe this
small amount to the General Treasury.
		BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
			General President.
		ANNIE T. HYDE.
		IDA SMOOT DUSENBERRY,
			Counselors,
EMMELINE B. WELLS, General Secretary.
CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS, General Treasurer.


Mrs. Roosevelt has ordered a new supply
of table linen for the White House, includ-
ing tray cloths, napkins, doilies and other
smaller articles, and has had them em-
broidered by the women of Porte Rico
The work is beautifully done, and in future
Mrs. Roosevelt will order all her house-
hold linen from the same source.


[Column 1]
THE SEVENTEENTH OF MARCH, 1902.
	Most of our readers are doubtless aware
that the 17th of March next will be the
sixtieth anniversary of the organization of
the Relief Society, in Nauvoo, Ill., by the
Prophet Joseph Smith, and each society
will assuredly feel the importance of cele-
brating the event in some characteristic
way, that all interested in this philan-
thropic organization may participate there-
in, making it a day of social enjoyment
with mutual benefit.
	The sisters will remember with pleasure
the success of what was termed the Relief
Society Jubilee ten years ago, in 1892,
after fifty years, and the satisfaction that
was felt and realized in having the day
made memorable all around the world, re-
calling the solemn prayers offered at high
noon on that auspicious occasion and how
gladly some joined with us, who have
now gone home to that better land.
	We can never meet together in such
gatherings without turning backward,
momentarily at least, and calling un the
faces of those we were accustomed to see,
and, as it were, hearing their voices en-
couraging and urging us onward in the
path of duty.
	We have no need to mention names, in-
deed there are too many to enumerate,
but we should try to emulate the noble
example of those whose names we feel
sure are enrolled upon the banner of honor
among the faithful and true in letters im-
perishable.
	Each society might make the seventeenth
of March a day never to be forgotten be-
cause of the solid enjoyment and goodwill
of those who are laboring incessantly for
the welfare of humanity.
	In every ward a delightful and instruc-
tive program of exercises might be pre-
pared, bringing out the best talent avail-
able, and with sufficient variety to relieve
the sameness that makes these affairs some-
times rather tiresome Music and tableaux
as well as reading papers and reciting.
Invite all who will to participate in the
joyful occasion of celebrating a day fraught
with so much that is uplifting and bene-
ficial to the women of the Church, and
through them to the world.
	Perhaps we sisters, though we appre-
ciate the Relief Society, hardly realize
what a blessing it has been to us and to
our people, morally, intellectually and
spiritually, besides the gentle charity it
has inspired and taught, as well as the
giving to the poor and lending to the Lord.
What sublime lessons of patience, endur-
ance and fortitude have been learned
through the practical exercise of the care
of the uufortunate, ministering to the dis-
tressed in body and mind, studying the
ways and means to alleviate suffering and
sorrow.
	It would be difficult to tell even the
temporal work done by these organizations,
and yet these things are so common among
our people that they are passed over light-
ly and are scarcely noticed. Away in
wards remote from the great centres of
trade and traffic these brave women, mem-
bers of the Relief Society, by dint of
economy and energy are saving grain by
the hundreds of bushels, housing it and
watching it from insects and other species
of destruction, are building halls and
furnishing them for their meetings and
other purposes, and in numberless ways
to the material wealth and upbuild-

[Column 2]
ing of the community, setting examples of
industry, and thrift that tend to make the
world better for all mankind.
	The celebration of the day mentioned
need not necessarily incur great expense,
but with many hands joined in mutual
helpfulness the affair may be so well
wrought out that greater happiness may be
felt than is many times the result of large
sums of money expended in eating and
drinking, feasting and dancing.
	The day has been set apart, too, for the
payment of memberships, and it is the
duty of the president of each society to see
that this is done. Ten cents for each mem-
ber is the amount expected for the current
expenses of the General Society, and if it
were paid there would be sufficient means
in the treasury for all needful purposes,
and no special calls would be necessary
when exigencies arise .that require immed-
ate action and for which funds must be
obtained.
	The work of the Relief Society is truly a
labor of love, and it has veritably been a
spiritual uplifting from the beginning, as
many thousands will and do testify. The
very spirit of the undertaking is education-
al in its best and broadest sense and reaches
into the heart of things, as all philanthropic
work necessarily does, for it touches
humanity in the most tender way, lifting
up the bowed down, comforting the sor-
rowing, succoring the needy and relieving
the burden of the oppressed.
	It is fitting to celebrate the day when
such institutions were organized and the
fact of doing so will spread the work of the
society and emphasize its helpfulness. By
all means try to bring out the young
women and persuade them to take part in
the exercises of the day, for it is essential
they should be initiated in the work of
which the Apostle spoke when he said,
“Pure religion and undefiled before God
and the Father is to visit the widow and
the fatherless and keep yourself unspotted
from the world.”
	What is more blessed than to be able to
impart comfort and consolation in the hour
of affliction and distress, to give one’s self,
as it were, to blessing others In this
society those who perform these kindly
ministrations are really messengers of good
and must live near to the Lord, humble
and prayerful and diligent, and yet full of
the courage of their convictions, which is
always in itself an uplifting influence.
	Our sisters who preside in the several
localities in the respective wards will of
course understand they are free to make
such arrangements in celebrating as are
suited to the conditions and circumstances
of the ward and its surroundings. Should
sickness prevent meetings and gatherings
in any of the wards or settlements, then
the affair must necessarily be postponed
until the health is restored, or there is no
danger of serious consequences.


MRS F. D. RICHARDS' BIRTHDAY.
	Friday, January 31st, was the birthday
anniversary of Mrs. Franklin D. Richards,
of Ogden, wife of the late Apostle Rich-
ards, and for twenty-five years president of
the Relief Society of the Weber Stake of
Zion, having been appointed to the position
by President Brigham Young, July 19,
1877, a short time previous to his death.
During all these years she has labored
zealously and faithfully in this good cause,
and never seemed weary in ministering to


others of whatever creed or faith, no mat-
ter how lowly or unfortunate.
	Such women deserve to be honored while
they live, and the good sisters of Ogden
and Weber County have literally construed
the saying, “Honor to whom honor is
due,” and have manifested their apprecia-
tion of the labors and good works of their
respected President and Mother in Israel
in a most commendable way, by giving
her a public reception in one of the
largest halls in the city and inviting as
many of her friends as the place will
accommodate, to unite with them on this
memorable day.
	The committee whose names appear on
the cards of invitation are Mrs. Harriet C.
Brown, Mrs Emily S. Shurtliff and Mrs.
Charlotte E Driver, of Ogden.
	Mrs. Richards birthday occurs on the
same day of the month as our dear departed
“Aunt Zina’s,” and it has been customary
for them in times past to celebrate together,
and naturally Mrs. Richards, who was for
thirteen years Mrs. Young’s first counselor,
will feel the loss of her sweet and gentle
presence on this occasion.
	We extend to the venerable lady our
heartfelt congratulations and prayers for
her usefulness in the Relief Society where
her labors have been so exemplary and so
valuable to the community in which she
resides and throughout the Stakes of Zion
where she has traveled in its interest, and
may our Father in heaven prolong her
days of activity until she has filled her
mission upon the earth, is the earnest wish
and desire of the writer.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TWO SOCIAL GATHERINGS.
	A very happy social affair was given by
Mrs. Elizabeth J Stevenson to a number
of ladies, old friends of hers, who by invi-
tation met at her cosy home and spent the
afternoon in pleasant conversation, renew-
ing old time intimacies and contrasting the
present with the early days in the valley.
A sumptuous dinner was one of the fea-
tures of the visit, to which all did ample
justice. The tables were prettily decorated
with carnations and smilax, and the snowy
linen and elegant china made the variety
of viands still more tempting.
	At the head of the table was seated the
veteran president of the Relief Society,
Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith, who pro-
bounced the blessing upon the food.
	Twenty-one guests were invited and
nineteen were present Of these Mrs.
Lucy B. Young and Mrs. Lydia D. Alder
had recently returned from foreign mis-
sions, and naturally their experiences were
an interesting part of the conversation.
	Mrs. Stevenson was assisted in receiving
by her daughter, Mrs. C. F. Wilcox, and
daughter-in-law, Mrs. Ezra T. Stevenson.
The young girls who helped serve were
Miss Gardner, Miss Clark and Miss Wil-
cox. The affair was very enjoyable and
was decidedly a social success. 

	On Wednesday, December 4, 1901, Mrs.
E. J. Stevenson gave a family dinner
party in honor of the recent marriage of
her son, Ezra T. to Miss Richards.
Twenty guests received invitations, of the
number were Bishop Robert T. Burton and
wife, Dr. Heber John Richards and wife,
Mr. Walter E. Wilcox and wife, Dr. C.
F. Wilcox and wife, Mr. James Stevenson
and wife and Mrs. Ezra T. Clark. All


are relatives of the family or connnected
by marriage.
	The gathering was a most enjoyable one
and will be remembered as such for years to
come by all who participated therein, as a
pleasing reminder of the hospitable hostess,
Mrs. Elizabeth J. Stevenson, who has been
accustomed to entertaining largely in the
lifetime of her distinguished husband,
Elder Edward Stevenson, a well known
character in Church history.


[Column 1]
BRIEF SKETCH OF SISTER P. C. YOUNG.
	Sister Phebe Clark Young, who recently
departed this life, was a women of strong
and independent character, a woman of
sound principle and well read, not only in
the scriptures but in history, ancient and
modern, of which she was very fond. Her
gifts of conversation and powers of ex-
pression were excellent, and she was clear
and sound in reasoning and in judgment.
Summing up her virtues and her endur-
ance of trials, hardship and suffering, one
recalls the poet’s words as expressing best
and in fervent words the thoughts we have
of this departed sister and mother in Israel:
“A noble type of good,
Heroic womanhood.”
	Sister Phebe was born September 15,
1830, at Hardway, England, and grew to
womanhood among the delightful scenes of
that beautiful country. She heard and be-
lieved the Gospel in her native land and
was baptized by Elder Wm. Eddington
and emigrated to Utah in 1851—the only
one of a family of nine who accepted the
Gospel. This young girl crossed the plains
with ox teams, although she walked her-
self all the way from Keokuk to Salt Lake
City.
	After arriving here she became ac-
quainted with Phineas H. Young, brother
of President Brigham Young and the fol-
lowing year they were united in marriage.
Mrs. Young was a devoted and exemplary
wife and raised a large family of children.
During the time her husband was Bishop
of the Second Ward in this city she en-
deared herself to all in his charge by her
large heartedness and universal courtesy
to all who came for counsel or assistance.
The first Sunday School in Farmer’s Ward
was organized in the home of Brother and
Sister Young, and the first Relief Society
in the Second Ward was organized by
Bishop P. H Young in his own home
while he presided in the ward. Under their
roof many were helped in sickness by
medical aid and the administrations of the
ordinances of the laying on of hands for
healing of the sick and afflicted. Such
helpfulness is not soon forgotten and there
are many to recall similar deeds of kind-
ness from Sister Young since the death of
her husband.
	She was the mother of nine children,
six of whom survive her, and she had great
success in training her children in the
spirit of the Gospel. She was a regular
attendant at meetings, and was for many
years treasurer of the Relief Society in the
Second Ward, to which office she was set
apart Sep. 3. 1891, and resigned her office
Feb. 10, 1898. She was set apart presi-
dent of the Second Ward Primary Associa-
tion in 1883, and continued in that position
until 1891. In whatever place or posi-
tion she faithfully fulfilled the duties per-
taining thereto.
	Sister Young was for eight years a

[Column 2]
member of the Utah Woman’s Press Club,
in which she took an active part. She
held the office of vice-president one year
and treasurer two years, was nearly always
a member of the program committee and
never failed to do whatever was expected
of her. She was familiar with the topics
of the times, kept herself well informed on
all general matters, and although over
seventy years of age at the time of her
death she had, up to that period, an excel-
lent memory and the use of all her mental
and bodily faculties. She contracted a
severe cold which brought on pneumonia
and though she was not thought danger-
ously ill, and friends were hopeful, yet the
end came unexpectedly and she passed
peacefully away on the morning of Decem-
ber 20, 1901.
"The stars are watching the sleeping saint,
And lighting the sleeping below;
But the light of the stars is cold and faint,
To the glory she dreameth now.”

“Are they dreaming, the sleepers pale and still?
For their faces are rapt and calm,
As though they were treading the Holy Hill,
And harkening the angels’ psalm.”
	Sister Young's funeral was held in the
Second Ward meeting house, December
23, Bishop Heber Iverson presiding. The
casket was covered with beautiful flowers,
the gifts of loving relatives and friends,
and the music and singing by the ward
choir was sweet and harmonious. The
speakers were Counselor J. Galligher, of the
2nd ward, Mrs. E. B. Wells President Joseph
E. Taylor, of the Salt Lake Stake of Zion,
Dr. Seymour B. Young, President of the
Seventies, and Bishop Iverson, all of whom
spoke in the highest praise of Sister Young
and exhorted her children and grand chil-
dren to follow her noble and righteous ex-
ample. “And so he giveth his beloved
sleep.”
E. B. W.


PARTY AT HOOPER.
	A sociable party was given here in
honor of President Belnap and Counselor
Margaret Manning by the members of the
Relief Society. A good quilt was given to
each of them, showing the esteem in which
they are held by the society they preside
over.
	The party was a surprise to them. It
was held on our regular meeting day, and
a nice program was rendered, also a nice
supper was prepared, which all enjoyed -
immensely. Such gatherings draw us
closer together.
	The following article was read by Cath- 
arine Naisbitt:

DUTIES AND BENEFITS OF THE RELIEF
SOCIETY.
	We, as members of the Relief Society,
feel it not only our duty to relieve and
assist the poor, but to comfort the dis-
tressed with kind words and acts to visit
them personally, help them in trouble, nurse
them in sickness. What a mission of love,
yet how little appreciated by some. Many
husbands instead of encouraging these
noble women in the performance of their
duties, find fault if they mention going to
their meetings, or to visit their district,
and probably would object if asked for a
horse or teamster, yet these sisters come to
meeting filled with the spirit of their mis-
sion, knowing they have done their duty
and I have no doubt if all could bear their


reports and the faithful testimonies borne
by these valiant sisters, they would have a
desire to attend our society meetings. It
refreshes our bodies as well as our spirits,
and it is better to wear out than to rust
out. Look at our noble sisters who have
devoted their whole life to the Relief
Society work, besides being mothers in
Israel. We might mention E. R. Snow,
Zina D. H. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith,
Emmeline B. Wells, Jane S. Richards, also
our beloved president, Adeline Belnap, and
her counselor, Margaret Manning. I think
it time we should show our appreciation of
their labors, not wait until they leave us
show it by rallying round them and attend-
ing meeting, assisting them as they have
assisted others in their time, never faltering
when called upon to perform a duty night
or day. Many have been cheered and
comforted by their presence. They may
wear themselves out in doing good, as
many other noble sisters are doing, but
they are laying up for themselves treasures
in heaven.
	God bless the founders and workers of
the Relief Society.
		Catharine Naisbitt, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.

SARAH MELISSA JOHNSON.
	Sarah Melissa, wife of Patriarch Ben J. Johnson,
passed away October 4, 1901, at Mesa City,
Arizona, from sickness resulting in blood poison.
	She was born in Kirtland, Ohio, November 18,
1836. and was blest in the Temple there. Her
father, James S. Holman, and family with the
Prophet and many others, fled to Missouri in the
winter and spring of 1837-8, to experience the ter-
ror of that persecution and expulsion that fol-
lowed in the winter and spring of 18[;8-9]
	At Nauvoo she was baptized by the Prophet
Joseph, and after his martyrdom she, with her
parents, crossed the frozen Mississippi and started
in Feb. from Nauvoo with the first company.
Her father brought the first flock of sheep through
that came to Utah in 1847. going to Utah County
in 1857, where he was ordained the first Bishop of
Santaquin. There Sister Melissa was married to
B. F. Johnson, to whom she bore eleven children,
seven sons and four daughters, all surviving her,
and over sixty grand children.
	Aunt Melissa, as she was lovingly called by
kindred and friends and all who knew her, was a
true Latter-day Saint, a faithful wife, a loving
mother, devoted to her duties in Relief Society
work. She had held the office of president, also
of counselor, and was at the time of her death
second counselor in the Stake Relief Society of
the Maricopa Stake of Zion, having been called to
that position September 15th, 1898.
	Her influence was always felt for good in this
benevolent work. Her funeral was an ovation of
love mingled with sorrow and tears. Wreaths of
beautiful flowers, lovingly bestowed by grand-
children and friends, covered the beautiful white
casket in which she was laid to rest.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Resolved, That we, the officers of the Stake
Relief Society, do feel to tender our love and
sympathy to the memory of our beloved sister.
	Resolved, That we feel to humbly bow to the
divine will of our Heavenly Father, and acknowl-
edge His hand in all things.
That we realize that in Sister Johnson we have
lost a true, tried and faithful laborer in the work
of God.
	Resolved, That a copy of this Memorial be sent
to the Woman’s Exponent for publication, and
that one be placed on the Maricopa Stake Relief
Society records,
		A. E. Fuller, Sec.

		ELETHRA CALISTA EARL.
	In memory of Sister Elethra Calista Earl,
daughter of Edward and Emily Abbott Bunker,
who died June 30, 1901, was born November 9,
1859, at Ogden, Utah.
	She leaves a husband, several children and
numerous relatives and friends to mourn her loss.
She was a good mother and obedient to the cause

[Column 2]
of truth. She was chosen secretary to the Relief
Society, November 19, 1890, which position she
held until the time of her death.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, It has pleased our Heavenly Father
to remove our dear sister and take her to a higher
sphere, therefore be it
	Resolved, That we mourn her loss as a faithful
worker in the cause of truth and as a faithful
secretary of the Relief Society, and that we desire
to emulate her earnest labors.
	Resolved, That we tender our sympathy to the
bereaved husband and children, and pray our
Heavenly Father to let the comforting influence
of His Holy Spirit rest upon them, that they may
realize that she has only gone before and is en-
joying the rest of the faithful, and will come forth
to a glorious immortality and eternal life. And,
be it
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
placed on our record, one be sent to the bereaved
family and one to the Woman’s Exponent for
publication.
	Committee of the Relief Society, Annie E.
Cox, Harriet M. Earl, Mary Ellen Leavitt.

SARAH TIBBITTS.
	Sarah Tibbitts, who died recently in this city,
was born in Harrington Co., Cumberland, Eng-
land, July 6, 1814, and was therefore in the eigh-
ty-eighth year of her age at the time of her death.
	It was through a most miraculous cure of can-
cer in the breast by the administration of the
Mormon Elders that she received the Gospel and
joined the Church.
	She and her husband, John Tibbitts, were
among the few who first heard and investigated
the Gospel when it was first preached in that part
of England. They with their four children
emigrated to America in 1851 settling at New
Orleans for something over a year. After leaving
there the family went to Council Bluffs to join
the Mormon emigrants and crossed the plains in
ox teams, arriving in Salt Lake City in the fall of
1852, September 11. They settled in the Second
Ward, where they lived until the death of Brother
Tibbitts, which occurred January 1, 1881. They
had lived together more than fifty years.
	Sister Tibbitts was always a staunch adherent
to her principles. She was most highly respected
and beloved for her many acts of kindness and
charity, especially in sickness, many, many times
responding to calls by getting out of her bed to
ride miles in a lumber wagon. She was a mem-
ber of the Relief Society for many years. In fact
she gained the affectionate name of “Mother
Tibbitts,’’ till later in life she was called “grand-
ma” by everybody.
	She was the mother of seven children. One
son only, James L. Tibbitts. of this city, survives
her. She leaves twenty-one grandchildren,
thirty-eight great grandchildren and several great
great grandchildren.
	Her funeral was held in the Second Ward
meeting house in this city. Among the speakers
were Bishop Clawson, Isaac Brockbank, Brother
Wilson and others. The following beautiful
hymns, great favorites of hers, were sweetly
rendered by the choir: “There is sweet rest in
heaven” and “Farewell all earthly honors.”
		E. C. T. 
	“Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord, yea
from henceforth they rest from their labors and
their works do follow them.”


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

MARICOPA STAKE.

Report of the conference of the Maricopa
Stake of Zion, held in the Relief Society
hall, December 26, 1901, Counselor Fran-
celle E. Robson presiding, sickness having
prevented our president, Mabel A. Hakes,
attending.
	Meeting opened with the usual exercises.
Reports were given from four out of six
wards. Those that were given stated that
all were alive to their duties as far as pos- 
sible. There had been and still was some
sickness. Quite an amount of wheat had
been put up. The Mesa Ward had held
their first Fair, and tithing had been paid
on all the proceeds. The Woman’s Build-
ing fund was spoken upon and a call was

[Column 2]
made for donations. All felt encouraged
to go ahead in this great work.
	The Stake had one of our beloved sisters
taken from us by death. On the 14th of
October the second counselor, Sister
Sarah Melissa Johnson. Sister Melissa J.
Hanson was called to fill the vacancy.
	There were many testimonies borne,
good encouragement given, all feeling that
it was one of the best conferences we had
ever had.
	Adjourned for three months.
			Anna E. Fuller, Sec.
ALPINE STAKE.
	The third quarterly conference of the
Relief Society of Alpine Stake was held in
Lehi, October 25, 1901.
	Sisters Elizabeth Stevenson and Susan
Grant, of the General Board, were present,
also the Stake Presidency and full repre-
sentation of the various wards.
	Meeting opened at ten a.m., President
Rebecca Standring presiding. Singing,
“High on the mountain top.” Prayer by
Brother William Southwick. Singing,
“Come, come ye Saints.” Roll called,
minutes of the morning session of former
conference read and accepted.
	President Standring made some opening
remarks in her usual kind way and ex-
pressed her pleasure at meeting the sisters
in conference.
	President Sarah Foutz represented the
Pleasant Grove ward; Linden was repre-
sented by President Martha Woolley;
Manila by Counselor Swenson; Alpine by
President Sarah Marsh; First Ward,
American Fork, President Orpha Robinson;
Second Ward by President Sarah S
Chipman; Third Ward by Counselor
Elizabeth Varney; Fourth Ward by Presi-
dent Alice T. Steele.
	These are new wards and the officers are
young in the management, but are full of
faith, and enthusiastic of their success they
have already commenced gathering grain
and building granaries. They are pro-
gressing finely and find their labors easy
and their burdens light when they have
the Spirit of the Lord.
	Sister Elizabeth Berry reported Cedar
Fort Relief Society.
	Counselor Anderson reported Lehi Ward
She was pleased that Sister Standring was
president of Alpine Stake, yet she is still
president of the Lehi Ward and she is the
right woman in the right place, and we are
very glad to sustain her.
	Sister Susan Grant addressed the meet-
ing for a short time. Was well acquainted
with Sister Standring and congratulated
the sisters on having such a president in
our newly organized Stake. Had rejoiced
in the reports and in the testimonies of the
sisters. Said the teachers should be the
best of women, full of integrity and dis-
cernment, that they can bless those whom
they visit.
	Sister Elizabeth Stevenson was pleased
to meet the sisters. Remembered when
American Fork was only a small village
and now it was divided into four wards.
There was no greater calling than to be a
teacher, and urged the teachers to seek the
Spirit of the Lord in all their duties. This
is the kingdom of God, let us never say
a word against His Holy Priesthood. Spoke
of President Brigham Young, he always
sustained the Relief Society, also all the
other presidents. The sisters sometimes


[Column 1]
get discouraged, “but persevere in the good
work and the Lord will bless you.”
	Singing, “Guide us, O Thou Great
Jehovah.” Benediction by President
Stephen L. Chipman.
	Afternoon session commenced by sing-
ing, “Earth with her ten thonsand
flowers.” Prayer by Brother Larkins.
Singing, “Prayer is the soul’s sincere
desire.”
	Counselor Annie C. Hindley could testi-
fy that we never meet but the Lord blesses
us. We are prone to evil and the sooner
we bring our minds to the mind and will
of the Lord, the greater will be our reward.
These organizations are by the power and
inspiration of the Lord, and it is necessary
that we are guided by the Lord in all our
actions, we must have charity and do good
to our enemies.
	Minutes of afternoon session of former
conference read and accepted.
	Sisier Elizabeth Stevenson said, “This
society is for the young mothers to learn
their duties and learn to raise their chil-
dren. This is a self-sacrificing society.
Our daughters should learn to be good
housekeepers in every respect. This is the
parent work of the sisters and we know
that the Lord is at the head. Humility is
the watchword, let us teach our sons and
daughters how to live and raise their chil-
dren in the fear of the Lord. They are
jewels sent from the home of our Father,
teach them the laws of life and health, and
remember that the responsibility falls on
you mothers.” Encouraged the sisters not
to neglect their Temple work and urged
them to take the EXPONENT and read it,
and so keep posted in the Relief Society
	President Stephen L. Chipman had been
delighted with the meetings. The Relief
Society is appreciated by the presidents
and by the Bishops Thought that the
teachers should seek the Lord in prayer be-
fore going on their rounds. “He will
come to your rescue in the hour of need.’,
	Counselor Harriet Jacobs always felt
well to converse on the principles of the
Gospel, if we are doing all we can we are
blest of the Lord
	President A. J. Evans said: “Unless we
remember some of the good things that
have been said and reduce them to practice
in our lives we shall get little good. The
Lord said ‘Seek and ye shall find,’ and He
will reward openly all who seek him in
secret. The organization of the Church
has stood for seventy-one years. It stands
firm as adamant and will go on to triumph-
al success.
	Bishop Cutler was sure that the Relief
Society was in strict line of their duty.
The Bishops fully realize the importance of
these organizations and it is for us to con-
form to their requirements. We have much
to be thankful for. We will not only be ex-
alted ourselves but we can help those of
our friends who have passed away. We
should make our homes attractive to our
children and keep them from evil ways
and evil places.
	Brother Larkins read from Sec. 84,
Doctrine and Covenants, pertaining to the
two priesthoods bestowed upon our breth-
ren, and spoke a short time on sustaining
our husbands and brothers and. encourage
them to do their duty and God will bless
them on their missions or wherever they
may be called to labor.
	President Standring said her heart had

[Column 2]
rejoiced and her spirit had been fed this
day. Felt thankful for these mothers and
these daughters that have been given to
her to feed. Had proved the Lord for
many years, and asked him to bless the
sisters with the graces of the Gospel. The
teachers are saviors to those whom they
visit, they can do them much good.
	Singing, “O, say what is truth.” Bene-
diction by President A. J. Evans.
EMMA FEATHERSTONE, Sec.

KANAB STAKE.
	Kanab Relief Society conference con-
vened in Kanab meeting house at 4:30 p.
m., September 7, 1901, First Counselor
Hannah E .Hoyt presiding.
	Present on the stand were Sister Eliza-
beth Stevenson, of the General Board;
Counselors H. E. Hoyt and Elizabeth
Pugh, of the Stake Relief Society; repre-
sentatives from all the branches in the
Stake, except Mt. Carmel and Glendale.
	Singing, “Come, come ye Saints.”
Prayer by Sister Emily Lewis. Minutes
of June conference lead and accepted.
	President Margaret Baird, of Kanab
Relief Society, reported that society as im-
proving and members trying to do the
best they can. They were saving means
to build a society house.
	President Emma Brown, of Fredonia,
reported that society as doing a good work.
	Miss Abbie Cox gave a favorable report
of the Orderville Relief Society.
	Sister Elizabeth Stevenson, of Salt Lake
City, addressed the sisters. She was
pleased to meet the sisters. Referred to
the importance of the Relief Society work.
It is very essential and was afraid we did
not appreciate it. Told of the difficulties
she had met in preparing for and making
her journey to visit us, and was sorry the
sisters were not all here to meet her.
Every virtuous woman should belong to the
society. Spoke of the necessity of being
chaste and pure and making right mar-
riages. There is a great mission for all
mothers. Help the daughters to become
good wives. All be missionaries, there is
ample work at home for missionaries. Keep
the confidence of your children, and teach
them to be pure and holy, prayerful and
modest. Be careful of your boys as well as
your girls. Paid a beautiful tribute to
the memory of Sister Zina D. H. Young,
said she would never die, her work will
keep her living in the memory of thous-
ands.
	Sister Harriet Brown was pleased to meet
with the sisters. Remembered the hall
and house where the first meeting of the
Saints was held in Nauvoo, had sat on the
Prophet’s knee. Paid a high tribute to
Sister Zina, her lovely disposition and
noble life. Felt deeply interested in the
welfare of the young people. Our chil-
dren are our first care and will be great
blessings if we train them properly. Had
passed through mobbings and trials, but
had always been blest and sustained. Felt
to bless all the sisters, her heart was full
of blessing for them. Prayed continually
for strength to shun evil. “Girls, never
say 'I don’t care,’ it is dangerous. We
should care enough to live right, and say
good things always.” Told us she was a
member of the General Board, but sup-
posed only a few of the sisters knew it.
	Singing, “Come, let us anew.” Bene-
diction by Sister Bethana Hart.
	Afternoon session opened by singing

[Column 3]
“Awake, ye Saints of God, awake.”
Prayer by President Thomas Chamber-
lain. Singing, “The Gospel standard high
is raised.”
	Present on the stand were Sister Steven-
son, of the General Board, Stake Relief
Society Counselors H. E. Hoyt and Eliza-
beth Pugh, President M. E. Pond, E. J.
Lewis, Emma G. Woolley, also Stake
President E. D. Woolley, President
Chamberlain and Brother J. W. Crosby, Jr.
	President Snow’s address that was given
at Saltair was read by Sister Maria Porter.
	Sister Stevenson addressed the sisters.
She was pleased to see so many more out
to meeting this evening. We should not
be discouraged when our present Prophet
encourages and blesses our work. Spoke
of the Woman’s Building, the encourage-
ment which President Snow had given it.
It is the best organization known for
women. Today there are many mothers,
they must not neglect their children; but
the best mothers are also the best members
of the Relief Society. Exhorted all to be
pure in thought and conversation. Ad-
monished mothers to teach their sons to
make home pleasant and comfortable for
their wives. Teach children to pay tith-
ing, prove that the Lord will open the
windows of heaven, etc. She had proved
Him in the past and could trust Him in the
future. “May God help us to fill every
department in our mission.”
	Stake President E. D. Woolley expressed
pleasure in listening to the remarks of
Sister Stevenson, was thankful for her
visit, as well as the visit of the brother
who is with us. There had been many
principles advanced that we can profit by.
Exhorted the sisters to sustain the Relief
Society.
	Singing, “Prayer is the soul’s sincere
desire.” Benediction by Brother J. W.
Crosby, Jr.
	Kanab Stake Relief Society meeting held
December 14, 1901. at the residence of
Elizabeth Pugh.
	Present were Stake President Artemesia
Seegmiller and Counselor Elizabeth Pugh,
and representatives from all the branches
excepting Mt. Carmel and Glendale.
	Opened by singing “We thank Thee,
O God, for a prophet.” Prayer by Sister
Harriet Bowens.
	President Seegmiller said there was but
little time, some business to attend to and
to hear the report of the different branches.
	Sister C. Hoyt gave a report of the
Orderville society. Said they were trying
to do all they could for the cause and ad-
vancement of the Gospel, and were trying
to raise means to send to the Woman’s
Building, trying to raise their children to
be useful.
	Sister Emma Brown, of Fredonia, said:
“We are united and trying to do right. We
have work meetings every two weeks.”
	Sister M. E. Baird, of Kanab: “I believe
as a band of sisters we are striving to do
right. We have program meetings and
testimony meetings once a month, and
feel that the sisters are improving. We
expect to have lectures on motherhood
given by Sister Horne. We are striving to
get means to donate to the building in
Salt Lake.”
	Sister Buchanan, of Johnson, said she felt
that the sisters of Johnson were united. “I
believe that if we only make up our minds
to go to meeting we can go." Felt that


she would appreciate having meetings, as
they did not hold meetings now.
	Sister Seaman, from the Ranch, said she
was pleased to meet with the sisters. “We
do not have Relief Society meetings at the
Ranch, but attend Sunday meetings.”
She would be glad if a Society were organ-
ized, felt like it would be a good thing.
She felt well, and hoped we would remain
faithful.
	President Seegmiller said she had just
returned from visiting the branches in
Glendale and Mt. Carmel. Found the
sisters feeling well, those that attended felt
like raising their proportion of the fund.
	Sister Seegmiller said she would be
pleased to hear from the sisters but there
was not time, having our meeting after the
afternoon meeting. Spoke of the feast we
have had in conference. We want to ask
ourselves how far we are living the lives
of Latter day Saints, etc. Set examples
before our children that are worthy of
emulation. Have faith and be able to live
the principles of the Gospel.
	Sister Elizabeth Pugh: “I feel and
realize that we are living in important
times, and if we live in compliance with
the commandments of the Lord we will
have the blessings of God.”
	Sister Emma Woolley: “Let us as
mothers pray for wisdom. There is going
to be a drawing in of the lines, that our
Father’s work may be done,” etc.
	Sister Laura Chamberlain spoke of the
need of counseling our children aright that
they may do right. Said we should teach
our girls the responsibility of mothers and
wives. Asked the blessing of God upon
us.
	Singing, Doxology. Meeting adjourned
for three months Benediction by Arte-
missia Potter.
	PERSIS A. SPENCER, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah. 
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as 
	much as possible for you money.					TRY US. 

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank n Utah. 
	Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts. 
	The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors
to open savings accounts in their own 
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW
	We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said
interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired. 
		LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.


[Column 1]
UTAH WOMAN’S PRESS CLUB.
FIRST DECADE OF ITS ORGANIZATION.
	By special invitation the December meet-
ing was held at the residence of Mrs. I.
Cameron Brown, at which, by request, our
charming hostess favored the club with a
realistic and entertaining paper on the
“Life and Works of Frances Burney.”
	The names af Mrs. S. O. B. Cummings,
Mrs. Rachel Miller and Dr. Orielle Curtis
were presented for membership. Vote car-
ried. In behalf of the club a vote of
thanks was tendered Mrs. Brown, who has
upon different occasions entertained the
club so generously.
	At the January meeting, on motion of
C. C. R. Wells, the president appointed
Mesdames R. B. Pratt, E. R. Shipp and
L. D. Alder a committee to prepare suitable
resolutions, congratulating the U. W. P.
Club, and Mrs. I. Cameron Brown (one of
its members) who is at present the recipient
of Congressional honors. Another motion
was made that the same committee make
honorable mention of the 75th birthday of

[Column 2]
Zina D. H. Young, one of our members,
and honored president of the N. W. R. S.,
and that such resolutions be sent to the
ladies named, and be recorded in the
minutes. Carried.
	Mrs Antoinette Brown Kinney was re-
ceived as a member.
	A paper on the Single Tax was read by
Mrs. R. B. Pratt, which caused much
lively discussion.
	At the February meeting Mrs. Pratt
continued her paper on the same subject,
the discussion again becoming interesting,
and on motion it was continued to another
meeting. The subject of Parliamentary
Law was also continued.
	The president stated that she had re-
ceived a letter from the Countess Annie d’
Montaigu, asking for information concern-
ing the club, to publish in an Eastern
magazine. This shows that the club is
becoming well known. The name of
Margaret A. Caine appears at this meeting.
	At the March meeting Miss S. L. Monroe
was received as a member.
	By previous invitation the April meet-
ing was held at the residence of Mrs. S. L.
Dickinson. Dr. Elliot was introduced as
the guest of the evening. She entertained
the club with interesting facts in the life
and labors of Miss Barton. Gave the
origin of the Red Cross. A letter was
read from Mrs. Brown, written in Washing-
ton.
	Miss Sybil Stewart was the guest at
the June meeting. Mrs. Emma J. Mc-
Vicker was received as a member.
	July 1, the June meeting was held at
the residence of the president, Dr. Ellis
R. Shipp. It was a delightful summer
evening, and the occasion was one long to
be remembered. We were honored by the
presence, as visitors, of Mrs. Jennings,
president of the Utah Federation of
Women’s Clubs, of local fame, and the
noted suffrage speaker of national reputa-
tion, Miss Elizabeth Upham Yates. Mrs.
McVicker spoke on her visit to Denver,
after which the visitors spoke interestingly
at some length.
	Mrs. I. Cameron Brown gave a talk on
her recent sojourn in Washington. At the
earnest request of the club Miss Yates gave
a graphic and vivid account of her visit in
China.
	In response to the kindly invitation of
Mrs. Rachel Miller the July meeting was
held at her home, Mrs. Mary J. Lambert
and Mrs. Martha Miller were received as
members. A critic was appointed. This
had long been the desire of the club. Mrs.
McVicker was the first to hold this posi-
tion.
	An invitation from the Ladies’ Literary
Club was read to the U. W. P. C. mem-
bers to be present at their opening day
exercises, which would include a reception
to the retiring president.
	At the September meeting Dr. Curtis
gave an interesting account of her summer
vacation. Mrs. Mary J. Lambert, after
reading a poem on the beautiful Island of

[Column 3]
Hawaii, by request spoke in that musical
language.
	The annual meeting held in October was
devoted to character representations. The
officers for the ensuing year were also in-
stalled.
	The names of Maria Miller Johnson,
Julia Ivins McDonald and Augusta Joyce
Crocheron were presented as candidates for
honorary membership, and received by
unanimous vote. A committee was
appointed to prepare a book of all the
officers and members of the club, past and
present.
	At the November meeting Miss Mae
Taylor was received as a member.
	At the December meeting Mrs. Emily
S. Richards was received as a member.
	The February meeting, 1897, was held
at the home of its president, Mrs. Ruth
M. Fox. The birthday of our honored
Mrs. E. B. Wells was fittingly observed.
Mrs. Wells gave a talk on her Eastern
trip, and the club presented her with a
small token of esteem and appreciation.
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp entertained the club
for the March meeting at her home on
Center Street. Miss A. M. Beecher was
the guest of honor. A large number, of
guests and club members were present to
greet her. In response to the request of
the ladies Miss Beecher gave an informal
talk on topics of interest to all; Economics,
the influence of women in politics, and
the political status of the Eastern woman,
each was touched upon.
	At the June meeting a program in honor
of Queen Victoria’s 60th Jubilee was car-
ried out as follows: “Victoria as a girl,
Mrs. E. S. Wilcox; Victoria as a wife, Dr.
R. B. Pratt; Victoria as a mother, Mrs.
M. A. Freeze; Victoria as a queen, Mrs. E
B. Wells; Victoria’s Jubilee poem, Mrs.
L. D. Alder. Mrs. Wells presented an
invitation from the National Press Club,
asking the U. W. P. C. to send a delegate
to the meeting to be held at Nashville,
October 25.
	The July program of 1897 was in com-
memoration of the Utah pioneers. The
first paper, “The Pioneers,” was by Miss
Laura Hyde, “The Jubilee” was by Mrs.
Fox. Dr. Orielle Curtis was appointed
special correspondent for the Review, by
request of its editor, Mrs. Bradley.
		(Continued.)


Woman's Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1902 
No. 11


CONTENTS.
Gleanings and Thoughts on Woman’s Work
	...............................................Ida Haag	81
Letter From Parowan.........E. Crane Watson	81
R. S. Reports................................................	82
The Imperial Palace in Berlin.....L. D Alder	83
A Pleasant Afternoon Party...............A. I. E.	86
Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting..A. Wardrop	86
Alpine Stake..................Emma Featherstone	86
In Memoriam................................................	87
How I Embraced the Gospel...........M. E. K.	87
EDITORIAL—Happenings Here and There	84
	Report of the National Woman’s Relief
		Society..........................................	85
POETRY—Snowflakes..........Ellis R. Shipp	81
	The Wood Buttercup...............Selected	83


SNOWFLAKES.
Oh ! the feathery flakes are coming down,
Over the mountain, valley and town;
O’er the lowly, cot and the palace proud, 
Enwraping nature in ermine shroud.
In the semblance of death the earth now sleeps,
While the sky these frozen teardrops weeps.

But we used to say, in the olden day,
That “Grandmother Goose” had come that way,
And was emptying' out her feather beds
To cover the drooping lily heads,
To keep our buttercups from getting cold,
From the blighting frosts of the storm king bold.

When out in the yard, with upturned face,
Watching them flutter in waving grace,
Letting them fall on our cheeks, in our eyes,
Enjoying the half expected surprise,
Till a tender voice, with note of alarm,
Would bid us within, to the fire warm.

Then, pressing our faces against the pane—
Gazing above to that vast domain,
Where myriad specks could be seen on high,
Most wonderful then to a childish eye,
So silently, slowly falling below— 
We longed of this marvel more to know.

So marvelous ! Indeed it seemed to be
A deep, unfathomed mystery.
Those fairy tales could not wholly deceive, 
Our simple faith, made us rather believe 
That the God of Heaven, who-lived above,
Had sent these messages with His love.
Ellis R. Shipp.


[Column 1]
GLEANINGS AND THOUGHTS ON
WOMAN'S WORK.
	It is claimed by some that the line
drawn between man and woman was de-
clared by Father Adam. I can see noth-
ing to base such an assertion upon, but
nevertheless the line is there, and I firmly
believe that woman, not man, is mostly
to blame for this; furthermore I believe that
it will take all the united energies of intel-
ligent womanhood, with a great amount of
vim and patience, to undo this great evil.
Hence so many papers and discussions on
the “Woman Question.”
	I came to the conclusion that a few ideas
and gleanings from one in the more com-
mon walks of life might not be entirely
uninteresting. One writer says there is al-
ways more to be said than has been on the
other side of almost any question. It is
said also that “Individuals think, but mil-
lions drift.” I sometimes think that there
are many of us, while we may feel as
though we were doing all in our power for

[Column 2]
the advancement of our sex, that fire really
drifting along with the great sea of human-
ity, seemingly blind in the great rush and
confusion around them to the great good
that they actually might accomplish.
	The question sometimes arises in my
mind. “Are we not often scattering our
energies in too many different channels,
not concentrating them enough on one or
two worthy objects ?” Just so are we not
often found reading much more than we
really think, thereby feeding our own
minds continually on other people’s
thought, hence losing our own originality
and, I might add, diseasing the mind ?
It is said that the keynote of the present
age is discontent. Allowing this to be
true, (and I believe it to be true) it is all
right as long as it carries us along in the
right direction, thus making it wholesome.
	I believe the Consumer’s League, so
ardently espoused by our honored guest of
last month, opens up the field for a noble
work; but, again, have we not here in our
midst that which leads to the “sweat
box" evil?
	Not long since a man about sixty years
of age was allowed to take in holy wedlock
for a wife a young girl with no very great
mental power. Pray tell me what would
that lead to ?
	Many tired mothers say, “I never read,
I cannot, I never have time. I have all I
can do to bring my children up properly.’’
	Do they ever think that in order to do
their duty they should seek bodily rest,
with a little mental labor, a medicine that
will bring, with the rest, smiles and sun-
shine for the home? We know that the
elements of home have a great deal to do
with the future lives of the children.
Woman, especially the mother, is the cen-
ter attraction. Again it is said since the
dawn of history the center and source of
life has been the home. All civilization
and reform, all progress has had its origin
in the home.
	Now let us go back. Mrs. Jones men-
tioned one very great evil, and that was
the scattering of disease germs from these,
sweat boxes in the large cities. This to
me seemed very reasonable and is indeed
a very great reason why we should lend
our assistance in this direction. But again
I ask, have we not dangers here at the
present moment equally as great ? From
observation, or gleaning, if you like, I
have thought if we had some method of
finding out places where there were con-
tagious diseases in the houses, there would
be far less sickness and death.
	There is much more that I might men-
tion casually leading to this great evil, but
I fear I may become wearisome.
	May we so unite our energies and self-
control that the glory of our work may
shine forth to all womankind wherever
they are and in whatever station of life;
that warmth and enthusiasm may enter
their hearts for good, and that we may
continue in a mutual advancement until
our lives may be only like a pleasant
dream.
	There is one thing more in particular

[Column 3]
that I would like to make mention of, and
that is the canker that is eating gradually
all the life-sacredness out of the marriage
vows. The many desolate homes and the
many newspaper reports of divorce cases
verify this. To me the remedy seems to
be the higher education of woman.
	It is a happy faculty
		Of woman far and wide, 
	To turn a cot or palace
		Into something else beside;
	Where brothers, sons and husbands
		With willing footsteps come, 
	A place of rest where love abounds,
		A perfect kingdom –– home. 
	Words cannot express the earnestness I
feel on this subject, but we look ahead for
a glorious future; this is our hope and
compensation for the past.
A glory shines across the coming years,
		The glory of a race grown great and free,
	'Twas seen by poets, sages, saints and seers,
		Whose vision, glimpsed the dawn that was,
			to be.
	A shining shore is by the Future Sea,
		Whereon each man shall stand among his
			peers
	As equal and to none shall bend the knee,
		Awake, my soul, shake off your doubts and
			fears.
	Behold the hosts of darkness fade and flee,
		Before the magic of the morning's face
	And hear the sweet and wondrous melody,
		That floats to us from far-off golden days. 
	It is the choral song of liberty,
		It is the anthem of the coming race.
IDA HAAG.


LETTER FROM PAROWAN.
Parowan, March 5, 1902.
Editor Woman's Exponent:
	It is some time since we noticed our soci-
ety represented in your paper, however we
have continued to “drift with the tide.”
	Since the new year death has made inroads
into our ranks by taking four of our Relief
Society band. Sister Elizabeth Gurr was
the first, a noble spirit and earnest worker;
then Sister Mary J. Clark, who, although
an invalid, kept herself informed on
Relief Society work and was ever fore-
most with her donations; then followed
Sisters Sarah Dalton and Sarah Mitchell
Curtis, all of whom were fitting subjects
for transition to a purer and holier sphere.
	Yesterday, March 6, was our regular
monthly fast meeting, and though the
number was few, on account of much sick-
ness, an inspiring influence was enjoyed.
Sisters Annie Bayliss and E. Crane Wat-
son, of the Stake board, were present and
urged the sisters to awaken to the full duty
of Relief Society requirements, and to take
the EXPONENT, that they might become
better informed and more completely en-
thused with the wonderful organization.
	A committee was appointed for March
17th celebration, and a plan was formu-
lated to spend a few hours socially with
Sister Mary Ann Rasmussen, who is pre-
paring to leave for the Big Horn Basin.
The subscribers of the EXPONENT ap-
preciate its contents and are eager for its
beautiful teaching.
E. CRANE WATSON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
UINTAH STAKE
Minutes of the 27th conference of the
Relief Society of the Uintah Stake, held
January 25, 1902, President Sarah Pope
presiding.
Opened by singing "Redeemer or Israel."
Prayer by Brother Nelson Merkly. Sing-
ing, "O Jesus, the Giver." Roll called,
showing four Stake and six ward officers
present. Minutes of previous conference
read and approved.
Counselor A. K. Bartlett said there were
but few present, but the Lord would bless
us in meeting together. It is just as nec-
essary for mothers to understand the prin-
ciples of the Gospel as it is for the mission-
aries who go to the nations of the earth.
The Relief Society should hold on to their
grain and not use it.
Brother George Merkly said he felt un-
able to say anything beneficial to any one
without the blessing of the Spirit of the Lord.
He always had a warm feeling toward the
Relief Society, he received much aid from
them while on his mission. We should al-
ways keep the commandments of the Lord
so we would have a claim on His blessings.
The Relief Society of the Vernal Ward,
Mill Ward, Naples Ward and Glen Ward
were all reported by their presidents as
doing a good work.
Morning session closed by singing, "Our
God we raise to Thee." Benediction by
Brother Thomas Bingham.
Afternoon session opened by singing,
"Now let us rejoice." Prayer by Counselor
A. K. Bartlett. Singing, "How firm a
foundation."
Brother Don B. Cotton thought the pre-
siding officers should not be discouraged on
account of no more being present, for they
had done their duty and would receive a
blessing.
Counselor Mary Hall thought we should
study the lives of our leading sisters and
emulate their example.
Sister C. A. Stringham read some verses
composed by Sister Esther Bennion.
President Sarah Pope made a few closing
remarks, the financial and statistical report
was read, the General and local officers sus-
tained and the meeting closed by singing,
"The time is far spent." Benediction by
President Sarah Pope.
ADDIE LONGHURST, Sec.
SALT LAKE STAKE.
The Relief Society conference of the Salt
Lake Stake convened March 1, 1902, at
10 a. m., in the Fourteenth Ward Hall,
President M. I. Horne presiding.
Meeting commenced with the usual
opening exercises, after which the roll was
called, the minutes read and approved and
the statistical and financial report read and
accepted.
President M. I. Horne said all are ex-
pected to pay their ten cent membership.
If any are not able to pay the society will
make up the deficiency.
The president of the 28th ward, Emma
Ridd, said she had been a teacher, but now
would do all she could in her new position
as president.
One of the counselors in the 25th ward
said they had held one meeting,   and felt 
if they were humble they would be
blest of the Lord.
Sarah R. Standring said their organiza-
tion was made last Fast day. They had
held one meeting.

[Column 2]
President S. J. McKean said they had
been organized three years.
Ann Sock, of the 27th ward, organized
last February, said there were nineteen
teachers, which was all that were present.
The 30th ward was reported by the presi-
dent, Sister Bowers. They have four
branches, their workers, are trying to do all
that is required of them.
President Horne related her experience
in trusting in the Lord in case of sickness.
She thought we could spend our time
profitably in sewing and working in our
societies.
Sister Margaret C. Hull said the Relief
Society is like a band of missionaries in
each ward. "We are not sent out into the
world, but we are sent to teach, comfort and
sustain those we work among."
The meeting adjourned until two o'clock.
Singing, "Lord dismiss us." Benediction
by Sister M. W. Wilcox.
Afternoon session opened at 2 o'clock
with President Horne presiding. The
Temple quartette sang "Redeemer of
Israel." Prayer by Elder C. J. Thomas.
The quartette sang another hymn and the
minutes were read and accepted.
Sister C. C. Cannon said we should re-
member we are working for the kingdom
of God, all that we have belongs to Him.
President B. W. Smith felt Relief Society
work was one of our first duties. Wished
we would cease to complain, be kind and
love one another. Liked to see us happy,
live holy lives and put away frivolity.
Sister E. J. Stevenson spoke of the re-
sponsibility of Relief Society teachers and
of the principle of faith and the work that
can be accomplished through it.
Sister M. W. Wilcox felt we should live
so that we would always have the spirit of
the Lord to dictate us in all that we do.
Sister M. C. Hull sang a solo.
Sister M. P. Young thought we were
greatly favored in being organized into this
society. Spoke of the greatness of the
Prophet Joseph Smith.
Sister E. Webb said "The Relief Society
is doing a great work. Let us set examples
that will bring forth fruit."
Julia S. Woolley spoke a few words on
records and reports, also on increasing our
faith by our works.
Sister Elizabeth Paul felt she was blessed
and privileged to be a member of the
Church
Sister Lambert bore a testimony of the
Prophet Joseph Smith.
President Horne counseled the sisters to
buy their wheat. She felt we should be
willing to say to the Lord, "Thy will, not
mine, be done."
The meeting adjourned. Singing, Doxol-
ogy. Benediction by Sister Barton.
J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.
WAYNE STAKE.
The Wayne Stake Relief Society confer-
ence was held in the Thurber Relief Society
hall, December 5, 1901, Stake President
W. E. Robison, Counselor H. M. Hanson,
Patriarch E. H. Blackburn, Patriarch
George Coleman and other brethren and
sisters being present. President Jane S.
Coleman presided.
Meeting opened by singing, "The
happy day has rolled on." Prayer was
offered by Patriarch E. H. Blackburn.
Singing, "Joy to the world." Minutes of
last conference read and approved.
President J. S. Coleman said she felt
truly blest for the spirit present this morn-

[Column 3]
ing. Prayed our minds might ever be en-
lightened, and when we know our duty,
do it, lest we come under condemnation.
Counselor Sarah S. Forsyth said we
should use our influence for the further-
ance of the Gospel. Mothers should be
very careful in teaching their children cor-
rect principles.
Sister Sarah A. Robison was pleased
with the privilege of meeting in conference.
We should teach our children reverence for
the Priesthood. Great results could be
accomplished through calling our children
together and and reading to them, and planting
the principles of the Gospel within them in
their youth.
President W. E. Robison said he was
interested in Relief Society work, and when
he reflected upon the fact that the Prophet
Joseph organized the sisters in Relief
Society, which was so uncommon in those
days, and looked at what had been accom-
plished through this society since, it was
truly great. He appreciated the labors of
the sisters and felt they were a great help
in the wards, the labors of the brethren
would not be perfect without the sisters.
President Sarah G. Meeks, of Thurber
Relief Society, reported that branch in
good condition. The sisters were ever on
hand to assist in the ward and she felt
well in her labors.
President Harriet Stapley said the Loa
Relief Society was in good running order.
Teasdale Relief Society was reported by
Counselor L. C. Ostbery in good condition.
Counselor Ellen Heaton reported the
Torrey Relief Society doing well and the
sisters were united.
The Lyman Relief Society was reported
by Counselor Susan Turner as prospering,
and the sisters were desirous of doing their
part.
Morning session closed by singing,
"Redeemer of Israel." Benediction by
Patriarch George Coleman.
Afternoon session commenced with the
usual opening exercises, after which the
General Board and Stake officers were sus-
tained by the conference.
Patriarch E. H. Blackburn spoke. He
said he wished to bear testimony that
Joseph Smith was a prophet of the living
God and that President Joseph F. Smith
was also a prophet of God. Felt that
mothers should cultivate faith in the child
and should lay hold of every blessing.
Sister Leah Blackburn was pleased to be
present at conference. Said it is not what
we hear but what we practice that is bene-
ficial. We should be what we profess to
be, we shall be judged by our works.
President H. M. Hansen felt to add
a word of encouragement. He always
enjoyed meeting with the sisters. We
had heard many good instructions at this
conference that would be profitable to carry
out in our lives. Felt to encourage the
sisters of this Stake of Zion in the work of
sericulture.
President Jane S. Coleman bore testi-
mony to the truth of the Latter-day work.
Patriarch George Coleman felt thankful
for the privilege of being present at con-
ference. Bore testimony to the truth of
the Gospel, knew it was of God. Asked
the blessing of the Lord upon the Relief
Society.
Singing, "Praise to the man who com-
muned with Jehovah." Benediction by
Sister Bathsheba Grundy.
ANNIE COLEMAN.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOOD BUTTERCUP
We marvel why thou raiseth up
Thy tiny golden cup
In this sequestered place,
Where dense boughs interlace,
Thou that dos’t love the light,
Pure, warm and bright.
Did a malign, relentless power,
In some ill-omened hour,
Thus have thee woodward sent
In cruel banishment—
Thou that dost bravely bloom,
Despite the gloom?

Should an adverse, unfriendly fate
Upon our pathway wait,
May we not bow the head.
But lift it high instead
In patient bravery,
Remembering thee!
	SELECTED.


[Column 1]
THE IMPERIAL PALACE IN BERLIN
AND OTHER POINTS OF INTEREST.
	From the outside this would not strike
the beholder as being a grand palace. But
once through the receiving room and
having ascended the inclined brick walk
used instead of stairs, one is ushered into a
large room, with floor polished like glass,
where felt slippers of uncertain size are
handed to everyone that the floor may not be
marred. Then begins the tour of what
proves to be a palace of magnificence, and
all are anxious to see what the building
contains.
	The r oms are gorgeous indeed, with
most costly pictures on the walls, of all the
Emperors of Germany, with those of many
of the other nations. A lovely one of
Queen Victoria, standing in court costume,
is noticeable, as also one of the Queen of
Sweden and many others.
	A costly palace indeed is this! Gold
doors, gold trimmings, gold ornaments,
gold on the walls, gold on the ceiling and
gold everywhere.
	There are many presents to the Emperor
of untold value, both gold and silver, rich-
ly upholstered chairs with gold frames, in
fact, gold and silver is used as through it
could be picked up in the streets.
	One room known as the White Room is
white and gold with crystal chandeliers of
unknown value suspended from the ceiling,
which scintillate, reflecting the rays of
light that enter through the deep windows,
whose tops and sides are wrought in gold
of exquisite workmanship. One can
scarcely imagine such magnificence, much
less describe it. This room is of large
dimensions, with highly polished floor
whereon one scarce can stand; its use we
can scarcely understand.
	The Hall of the Knights is another
of splendor. This one contains a chande-
lier of crystal also, whose value must be
fabulous. It is covered with a thin gauze,
it is so precious, which is only removed on
state occasions.
	The shields of the knights in solid gold
hang here, while statuary of knights in ar-
mor and other wonderful decorations are in
wide panels just below the ceiling all
around the room, whose doors are also
ornamented gold, which almost dazzle the
sight. These are some of the warriors of
old who are honored and remembered in
German history.
THE LUTHER ROOM.
	The Luther room is here, where sat in
solemn conclave the Diet of Worms, who

[Column 2]
summoned the great reformer before its
august body, demanding of him to recant
his heresies.
	Would that these walls could repeat the
words used at that world-famed trial, the
features of those taking part be reproduced,
and that the voice of Luther could be
heard when he said, “What I have said, I
have said, and cannot recant, so help me
God!” The solemnity of the occasion,
with the hush that followed that speech
seems here still.
	This perhaps was a throne room at one
time, as the throne with its crimson and
gold canopy is still here.
	Then the present throne room! Imagine
the costly canopy overhead, the gold chair
on which the Emperor sits on an elevated
gold step, surrounded by a gold bar a
couple of feet from it that no one may
come nearer to His Imperial majesty while
he sits there; then think of all the costly
magnificence, all the pomp and splendor
that map and gold can make, then you
have a faint idea of the resplendent glory
of this room.
	Great scenes have been enacted here
when an Emperor has been crowned, but
now it is silent; none are clamoring for
place or position; no heart-aches from dis-
appointment; no heart-burnings for things
unattainable, but peace and silence reign.
The bustle of the great city seems far
away, and only comes as faint murmurs.
THE ART GALLERY.
	The art gallery is two hundred feet long,
and, oh, the priceless paintings to be seen
here! Two are the crowning scenes, one
that of the old Emperor, the other of the
present Kaiser. Both are of immense
dimensions and are gorgeous in the ex-
treme.
	Of course the central figure is that of the
Kaiser, who solemnly registers his vow
and accepts the crown. All the men of
state are near, the stone features of Bismark
in bold prominence with delegations im-
portant and stately, making a most impos-
ing spectacle. The Emperor with a few
attendants sits on the balcony opposite.
	What a gathering! It must have been
a solemn time indeed. The artist has done
his shading and coloring well. It is said
that it took him five years to paint each
one of these.
	Here are the pictures of Germany’s de-
parted great ones, Emperors, princes, with
the Empress, ladies, men of state, as also
those who were celebrated in the known
world. Here they are true to life, in gold
frames of elaborate design and width. Of
all the palaces before visited this is the
most gorgeous. One could never think of
this as a home. The palace idea is first
and foremost and always present. Such
magnificence is really burdensome and
oppressive.
	There is a large hall, to be known as the
White Hall, in course of finishing. No
doubt it will be very imposing. It will be
quite an addition to the palace, and will be
used as the amusement hall and a place of
recreation, and apparently will be on a
scale of appropriate grandeur to the re-
mainder of the palace. The chapel hall is
quite large and nicely arranged. This is
where the Royal family worship. Its walls
are ornamented by scenes in the life of
Christ, and the words, “I am the resurrec-
tion and the life," are prominent. The
humble Nazarine! Think of His station

[Column 3]
in life, poor among the very poor, without
a place oft-times to lafy His hea[---] and
suffering and of grie, the tea rejected
associate of publicans and sinners, minious
by His own, suffering an igno in that
death, a companion with thieves by
dreadful hour, yet now acknowledged God.
the civilized world as the Son of and
Here He is represented in beautiful
striking attire, that he might look, like the
grand ones who claim to worship Him.
Yet if He were to visit them today, as He
was when on earth, again would He be re-
jected, royalty could never mingle with
those in the humble walks of life. It
seems almost like a mockery. Though He
is also the Savior of the rich, yet would
they never own Him while on earth, nor
would they now.
	A sigh escapes the lips; how untoward
is the world, and how deluded by the touch
of gold. The poor were His companions,
the kings His persecutors. Looking at the
beautiful paintings of His death and suffer-
ings, on which the titled rest their eyes,
one is led to exclaim, “Who will stand the
day of His coming?”
	We leave the place with a sense of relief,
and thinking of the other palaces belonging
to the Emperor, with all his responsi-
bilities, and remembering the old adage that
“uneasy lies the head that wears a crown,”
no thought of envy is in the heart.
	Opposite the main entrance of the palace
is an imposing monument of Emperor
William I. Under it flows the river Spree.
It is a semi-circle in form, the chariot,
with driver and four horses, turned toward
the palace on either end. Just opposite
the centre of it is a statue of the Emperor,
returning in victory to the palace, after the
Franco Prussian war. His horse is led by
a woman. The statue stands on a huge
pedestal of dark marble with four square
corners, with a lion on each of them. They
are to represent Germany at different stages
of the war. One lion is looking disturbed
and restless, clutching in his paws the im-
plements of war. The next one is opening
his mouth in anger and is gathering them
up. The next is springing forward,
mouth extended, spears, muskets, flags
and swords in active service.
	O, the terror inspired by such a monster,
a fitting type of the demon war!
	Then comes victorious peace. The lion
crouching down at rest, holding in triumph
broken muskets, broken hubs and wheels,
battered cannon, torn coats, swords with
broken blades, in fact the destruction of
war is fearfully delineated, and one shud-
ders, thinking how great the havoc and de-
struction of life entailed by this war.
	On the Emperor’s birthday beautiful
wreaths of flowers are placed on the steps
of the monument by a grateful people,
many faded ones lying there now. This is
the first and most imposing monument we
have yet seen. It is about sixty feet high
and bears the following inscription:
“Monument of Emperor William I., 1861-
1888.”
	Close by, in course of erection, is what
is called the “Dom Building.” This will
be to Germany what Westminster Abbey
is to England, the tomb of the Royal dead.
It is not nearly completed, though it has
been ten years since it was commenced.
This will be the sepulchre of the present
Kaiser and family.
(Continued.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparie
pace one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a 
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH, 1902.


[Column 1]
HAPPENINGS HERE AND THERE
	It will soon be a month since we left Salt
Lake City Eastward bound, and the readers
of our dear little home paper will expect some
account of the conventions and council in
Washington. There is so much to tell
that we shall each of us be telling it for
many weeks after we return home.
	Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon has reached
Utah before this time with her party of
four, and the reporters have probably ob-
tained information from her for the daily
papers.
	It will be interesting to our readers to
learn that we have seen and conversed
with the world-famous Clara Barton, of the
National and International Red Cross
Society, and also her field marshal, Dr.
Hubbell, who accompanies her on all her
expeditions. Miss Barton’s health is much
improved since last spring, when we visited
her at her home in Glen Echo with a party
of ladies, Mrs. J. Ellen Foster having
charge of the affair. At that time she
showed us all her jewels and badges of
honor given by the great people of differ-
ent countries, in recognition of her grand
services in times of great distress and
calamities.
	This winter she has apartments at the
Hotel Fairfax, in Washington, (the Coun-
cil headquarters) and therefore those stay-
ing in the house were privileged to see her
coming and going, or receiving callers in
the hotel parlors.
	The day Prince Henry arrived he sent
an official representative to call, upon her
by request of the Emperor of Germany.
She received him in the hotel parlor, and
of course all the guests were on tiptoe to
see the royal messenger in glittering
array with his foreign decorations. 
	Miss Barton is a quiet person, very unas-
suming, makes no pretensions to greatness or
honor and is reluctant to admit that she has
done anything worthy of such praise and
commendation as she receives from her many
friends and admirers. Her only object is
and has been to help suffering humanity.
She spent one entire evening with our
party and related, at our solicitation, inci-
dents in her life, giving a history of the
Red Cross in her deliberate way, now and
then referring to Dr. Hubbell for a date or
a name. She was glad when questions
were asked, and we were glad to learn
from her own words concerning her labors
and methods of work.
	When Prince Henry’s party went to

[Column 2]
Annapolis one of the gentlemen of his suite
stayed in Washington on purpose to pay
his respects to Miss Barton. She told us
he was a personal friend and a member of
the Emperor’s household.
	On Friday evening, February 28, the
writer spent hours in Miss Barton’s room
talking Mormonism and answering her
questions about our people and the past
history and future outlook. It was a rare
opportunity and very unexpected.
	Miss Barton addressed the Council at
two of its sessions, and was vigorously ap-
plauded whenever she appeared on the
platform, as was also Miss Susan B. Anth-
ony. These two great ladies are every-
where recognized as heroines of the age in
which we live.
	There were many others present who
rank high in woman’s work and who
may yet be as famous as these two women
who are celebrated on both continents.
Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, the younger
suffrage leader, now president, re-elected at
the late convention of the N-A. W. S. A.,
and Miss Alice Stone Blackwell, the
daughter of Lucy Stone, who bids fair to
be as great as her illustrious mother, and
the Rev. Anna H. Shaw, the popular
lecturer and platform orator, perhaps the
most popular public speaker at the present
time on this side of the globe. These
women with the witty Harriet Taylor
Upton, who carries the money bags, are
the best known of the general officers.
Miss Mary G. Hay, who knows just how
to get the money, and Miss Gordon, the
corresponding secretary, are fast winning
their way on the road to fame.
	Mrs. Fannie Humphreys Gaffney, presi-
dent of the National Council during the
last three years, won regal honors by her
graciously dignified way of presiding and
recognizing every one’s right to place and
time, and her total unconsciousness of self
and thoughtfulness of others. Her open-
ing address on Wednesday, February 19,
was gracefully written, and a magnificent
document worthy a place in the literature
of the new century.
	Other women of the Council who de-
serve mention and who added much to the
success of the Triennial, were Mrs. Maria
Purdy Peck, vice-president-at large; Dr.
Kate Waller Barrett, one of the most inter-
esting women in Washington; and the Rev.
Anna Garlin Spencer, who, through
her efficient labors in many directions in the
interest of the Council has come to be
recognized as one of the pillars of the
Council itself. She stands at the head of
the cabinet and is a born diplomat. Mrs.
Ellen A. Richardson, of Boston, who is
the cabinet head of the fine arts committee,
gave one of the very best papers read dur-
ing the Triennial.
	Mrs. Susa Young Gates was quite as
busy, if not more so than any woman at
the Council, attending to the press work,
and was finally elected chairman of the
press committee for the next three years.
Mrs. May Wright Sewall brought her name
before the audience in a very happy and
complimentary way.
	Later on we hope to publish some of
the best papers, or extracts from them; but
one cannot crowd much of such elaborate
doings and sayings into a few columns of a
small paper.
	We had the pleasure of meeting, both at
the Suffrage Convention and the National
Council, some of the very dear friends of

[Column 3]
many years ago, on our first visit to the
Capital: Mrs Rachel Foster Avery, then
Miss Rachel Foster, now a matron devoted
to motherly interests in the home, also
Mrs. Sara J. Andrews Spencer, who
rendered such helpful assistance and gave
herself to our cause, as it were. Faithful
and true, friends in very deed have both
these been from that day to this. Belva A.
Lockwood, staunch and true as steel, Lillie
Devereaux Blake and dear Marilla Ricker,
though we did not see her this time. But
there are others, too, whose acquaintance we
have made since, no less true and truly
great, always to be depended upon. Clara
B. Colby, a genuine friend Hannah G.
Solomon and Dr. Ella L. Gilchrist, never to
be forgotten when we make up our jewels
among women; and we have dozens more—
Ida M. Weaver, Emma S. Olds, Sadie
American, Dell P. Glazier, Frances Burns—
and these are only a few of the bright
galaxy that shine out for the enlightenment
of the world.
	Then beside business sessions and public
meetings and “pioneer celebrations” and
the “new woman” and the “new man,”
there were grand receptions tendered in
elegant homes, music, art and dainty re-
freshments, of which more may be said
hereafter.
	The reception at the White House which
Mrs. Roosevelt had tendered to the Council
was cancelled because of the illness of her
son; but just before we left Washington
we had the opportunity of attending the
reception given to the Mothers’ Congress.
We also had the privilege, through the in-
fluence of Senator Kearns, a few of us, of
going through the White House conserva-
tory.
	Mrs. George Sutherland gave a luncheon
at the “New Willard” to the Utah dele-
gation, a most sumptuous affair, and a
number of us dined twice with Senator
Kearns at the “Raleigh.” Indeed we have
crowded as much as possible into the
few weeks at the Capital, and most of us
have been on duty the greater part of the
time.
	L. D. S. meetings have been held in
Baltimore and Philadelphia at which some
of our sisters were among the speakers,
and also here in New York City. Last
evening, Tuesday, March 4th, at the resi-
dence of Mrs. Laine, there was a large
gathering of Utah people at what is termed
here a Cottage meeting. There were so
many from Salt Lake City present, one might
fancy in looking over the congregation that
Salt Lake had come to Gotham. There
was an excellent spirit and feeling manifest
and strong testimonies of the Gospel were
borne by the sisters and Elders from Utah
and by some of the new converts. We
can truly say, notwithstanding the oppo-
sition, that
	“Zion prospers, all is well.”


Mrs. Susan Cabot Richardson has just
left an estate of $200,000 to Radcliff
College.
	Miss Helen M. Gould, an advocate of
equal suffrage, has given $6,000 to create a
third Helen Day Gould scholarship of
$10,000 at Wellesley College, in memory
of her mother, and has added $3,000 to
raise the two existing Helen Day Gould
scholarships from $7,000 to $10,000.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
REPORT OF THE NATIONAL WOMAN’S
		RELIEF SOCIETY.
Madame President and Officers, of the
	National Council, Delegates, Repre-
	sentatives and Friends.

	We have the honor to submit to you at
this time the report of the National
Woman’s Relief Society from the last
Triennial session of the Council, in Febru-
ary, 1899, to the present Triennial, Febru-
ary, 1902, inclusive.
	I am most happy to be able to state that
the growth of this organization has been
greater during the last three years, numer-
cally and otherwise, than heretofore dur-
ing the same period of time, and that a
deeper sense of the purposes, scope and
breadth of the work, as originally intended
by its founders, is another self-evident fact.
To the advantages and opportunity opened
to women more recently because of the
advancement made every where in educa-
tion of a better and more practical nature,
this more rapid growth may be largely
due, or, shall we say, to the awakening
of both men and women to a higher sense
of the responsibilities resting upon them as
part and parcel of the world’s great com-
monwealth?
	However, we need not deal with causes,
but simply state conditions, as they have
developed during the interim of the three
years. From the ranks of our society
membership more women have been called
into active service by being placed in posi-
tions of trust that would necessarily call
out latent powers in the individual, and
this, we must admit, is always helpful to
the person, the society and the community.
	Many more branches of the organization
have been started, all under the super-
vision of the general officers, but each
equipped with the respective offices of
president, vice-presidents, secretaries and
treasurer, and the various committees
necessary as helps, generally among us
called teachers. Each separate society has
its own fund and accumulates means in
such ways as are practicable; for instance,
voluntary donations by members form the
nucleus, but working meetings for sewing,
quilting and making up new material,
bazars, concerts and dancing parties under
the auspices of the society, help to make
an amount sufficient for all needful ex-
penses. Means thus accumulated is some-
times used for a special purpose, stipulated
for beforehand, so that all understand; but
all collections from whatever sources, and
disbursements for whatever purposes, are
regularly reported in business meetings, in
each branch society, so that no one need be
in doubt about expenditures. It is really
wonderful what has been accomplished in
this way even in remote localities. Each
branch society has a legal status under the
laws of the State, and a board of trustees
to manage its affairs, with the co-operation
and approval of its members. Hundreds
of these branches own halls of their own in
which to meet, and for purposes of work
and storing of various articles owned by
the society. Some have built amusement
halls for local entertainments, concerts and
so on. Many have granaries well filled
with wheat against a day of scarcity and
famine, and altogether the society, is in a
flourishing condition as to its general status
and welfare.
	In the General Conference of the Society
held October, 1898, at a business meeting

[Column 2]
of the members, who had many of them
come long distances to attend, for instance
from Mexico, Canada and far off States, as
well as those nearer Utah, where the head-
quarters of the society is established in
Salt Lake City, the discussion of ways and
means to maintain headquarters and to car-
ry on the missionary work necessary and
to defray the expenses of such a great
organization, culminated in a proposition
to collect annually from each member ten
cents for a general fund, this collection
to be made on the 17th of March, the anni-
versary of the first organization.
	In March, 1899, the first collection was
made, and it has been continued since,
each succeeding year. By this means calls
for special donations have been avoided
and the result has been most gratifying
for every one knows how difficult it is to
collect money to defray expenses of print-
ing, stationery, stamps and those little
incidentals that are unavoidable in carry-
ing on the work of even small organiza-
tions.
	In April of that year, too, the society
commenced collecting money by voluntary
donation towards erecting a Woman’s
Building in Salt Lake City for the use and
purposes of the General Society, the land
having been given to the society for the
building in a most desirable locality on
the Main Street, opposite the Salt Lake
Temple. There is not yet sufficient money
donated but there is a good prospect that
all needed will be forthcoming in the near
future, or when it shall be deemed expe-
dient to commence the building.
	The officers of the General Society and
their co-laborers in all the several Stakes
and branches look forward with delightful
anticipation to the completion of this
Woman’s Building, and expect to have
within its walls a library and bureau of
information, that will be in the best sense
educational, and be open to all members of
the society, and where lectures may be
given by distinguished professors in all
branches of science, art and literature, and
on general topics.
	These hopes and ambitions can only be
given the briefest mention in a report of
this kind, but this society has recently
introduced in a small way lectures and
talks upon suggestive subjects, that will
lead to a broad field of culture in this
direction. Lectures on hygiene and
domestic science are at present perhaps the
most popular, but such as pertain to home
and motherhood have always been con-
sidered a legitimate part of the Relief
Society movement.
	In the report made to the Council in
1899, casual mention was made of the
nurses class or classes; since then much
has been done In this line of charity work,
and should receive special mention on ac-
count of its great value to the society and
the public weal. A call was made in Salt
Lake City and County for girls and young
women volunteers to study nursing and
receive training under the auspices of the
Relief Society, so that they would be quali-
fied to give skilled attendance to the sick
poor. One hundred or more responded to
the call, they were also instructed in cook-
ing and serving food for invalids. At the
close of the term about one hundred young
women received certificates to practice in
the profession of nurses from the medical
examiners, who have since highly approved
of their splendid work in attending the

[Column 3]
sick. The nurses’ classes have been
under the direction of superintendents, ap-
pointed by the officers of the society to take
charge of the work, though the instruction
was given free by a woman physician
who called to her aid the most eminent of
the medical fraternity in the city, to give
lectures, now and then, to the classes in
her charge.
	In connection with the nurses depart-
ment of work in the Relief Society, there
is an emergency closet well supplied with
clothing for mother and child, cots and
every convenience for the comfort and
cleanliness of the patient, and all that is
needful to make the burden lighter all
around.
	There have also been nurses’ classes in
connection with obstetrics taught in other
parts of Utah and in Arizona, Idaho and
Mexico, and it is the intention of the
General Society to extend this class of
training for nurses until every society has
skilled nurses to call to its aid in times of
sickness among the poor, that they may
have the benefit of the same intelligent
nursing and care as those who can afford to
pay for skilled attendance.
	In the society official visits are made by
at least two members of the General Board
from time to time to conferences of the
society in different localities, and uniform
instruction is given, so that all may work
in harmony, each Stake, as it is termed,
consisting of two or more branches, re-
ceiving at least one or two visits a year,
even though the distance is great. During
the year 1899 the branches of the society in
England, Scotland and Wales were visited,
and more recently the Scandinavian coun-
tries have been visited by sisters from
Utah. Mrs. Lucy B. Young was appointed
while residing temporarily in Germany to
preside over the branches of the Relief
Society in that country and also in
Switzerland. The branches in the Sand-
wich Islands are also presided over by a
president from Utah. Nearly every,
branch, if not every, one in the United
States, Canada and Mexico has been
visited during this last year, and very much
has been done for the last thirty years by
official correspondence and through the col-
umns of the WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
	Among other things, the Relief Society
during the last three years has been doing
some active work in the interest of the
movement for universal peace and arbitra-
tion; but it is impossible to enumerate all
that this society has undertaken. The work
is increasing and multiplying as well as
the membership, and it scarcely seems
possible to do all that is really desirable,
but our women are zealously striving to
live by the Golden Rule, and do the duty
that lies nearest and walk in the light of
truth and follow the pattern set by the
blessed Savior and Redeemer of the world
of mankind.
	This assembly of representative women
are, we are sure, most of them aware, of
the loss sustained by our society in the
death of our beloved and revered president,
Mrs Zina D. H. Young, but though we mourn
her absence and miss her gentle ministra-
tions and sublime teachings and counsel,
yet we feel comforted in the blessed
assurance of her having passed from death
unto life, and that she has entered into the
rest prepared for the faithful, and joined
the innumerable company on the other side
where there is no more sorrow or mourn-


[Column 1]
ing forevermore. And we of the society,
her co-workers, who loved her so tenderly,
will ever hold her memory precious and
strive to emulate her noble example of
patience, humility, and the “charity that
never faileth.”
	In her successor who has been elected to
fill the vacancy, we feel the same un-
swerving faith and confidence; we know
her sterling integrity in the work to which
she has consecrated almost her entire life,
and we commend her to the officers and
members of the National Council of
Women, and feel assured they will find in
Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith a woman emi-
nently qualified for the position to which
she has been elected by the members of the
society over whom she has the honor to
preside. She is the only woman now liv-
ing who was present when the Relief
Society was organized in the State of Illi-
nois sixty years ago on the 17th of next
March, 1902. The anniversary will be
celebrated throughout the entire society in
a manner suited to the memorable occasion.
	Salt Lake City was highly favored last
summer in having for its guest of honor
the president of the International Council
of Women, Mrs. May Wright Sewall; it
was a rare treat and a pleasure that will
not soon be forgotten. Committees from
each of the two National Societies affiliated
with the Council, the National Woman’s
Relief Society and the Young Ladies
National Mutual Improvement Association,
had charge of the arrangements for the
entertainment of the distinguished lady,
and among other pleasing features of her
visit, Mrs. Sewall addressed an audience of
seven or eight thousand people in the great
Tabernacle in Salt Lake City on the Sab-
bath day, on her favorite theme, Inter-
nationalism. We all regretted that her
stay was so brief and we are sorry that we
could not have been favored with a visit
from our honored president of the National
Council, Mrs. Fannie Humphreys Gaffney,
but we sincerely hope to have that honor
in the near future, and trust that it will be
our pleasant privilege to hear Mrs. Gaffney
address as large an audience in the Taber-
nacle as assembled on the occasion of Mrs.
Sewall’s public address.
	We are proud to welcome to our moun-
tain home, women who are giving their
best efforts to the amelioration of the con-
ditions of womankind, and the advance-
ment and enlightenment of the world at
large. Our best endeavors shall be given
to strengthen the ties of love that shall event-
ually bring about the reign of peace on
earth and good will to all mankind.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A PLEASANT AETERNOON PARTY.
	On Wednesday, March 12, Sister Eliza-
beth J. Stevenson entertained the widows
of the Fourteenth Ward, and a number
who were not residents of that ward, in-
cluding Presidents Bathsheba W. Smith
and M. Isabella Horne. Brother George
Taylor, Bishop of the ward, was also
present.
	The rooms were prettily decorated with
carnations and beautiful feathery ferns.
The time was pleasantly spent in con-
versation, speeches, music, both vocal and
instrumental, and dancing by little Clay
Wilcox, a granddaughter of the hostess.
The music was a feature of the afternoon,
and was greatly enjoyed by those present.
	At five o’clock the guests repaired to the


dining room where a delicious dinner was
served. Bishop Taylor sat at the head of the
table and pronounced the blessing. The
scene was one not soon to be forgotten: the
snowy linen, dainty china and fragrant
flowers the calm, serene faces of the dear
sisters who have most of them grown old
in the service of the Lord; the gracious
hostess herself, giving a kind word here
and a smile there, and the strains of sweet
music floating in from some distant room.
	Sister Stevenson’s parties are always de-
lightful and will be long remembered by
her associates in the ward, the Relief Society
and the Temple, in all of which she is a
faithful, earnest worker.
						A. I. E.


ADIES’ SEM I-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting was
held in the Fourteenth Ward Hall, January
4, 1902, Sister E. J. Stevenson presiding.
Opened by singing, “Come, let us anew.”
Prayer by Sister Sarah J. Cannon. Sing-
ing, “All hail the new born year.” The
minutes of last meeting read and accepted.
	Sister E Stevenson said she was very hap-
py to be with the sisters. We must not live
for ourselves, we must live for the blessings
we get.
	Sisters Brown and Barrow bore faithful
testimonies, and Sister Taylor thanked the
Lord for her blessings.
	Sister Palmer felt good to be at the
meeting, it was more to her than anything
else.
	Sister Sarah J Cannon said she felt
honored in the position to which she had
been called. Said she always honored
Sister Horne.
	Sister Hardy said she loved to bear her
testimony with the sisters. She had done
work in the Temple, and always felt well in
working for the dead.
	Sister Simmons felt the spirit of God
was with us.
	Sisters Ellis and Lund felt thankful that
the Lord had blessed them and bore faith-
ful testimonies.
	Sister Luff spoke of the greeting to the
Relief Society by President Bathsheba W.
Smith, she felt it was inspired of the Lord.
	Sisters Casset and Wright spoke of the
blessings of the Lord to them and felt to
sustain those placed over them.
	Several other sisters spoke of the pleasure
they felt in being privileged to work in the
Temple.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon said we should
have a special care over those who are
backward in asking for help and see that
they receive assistance.
	Sister E J. Stevenson urged all to try
and bear their testimony. Exhorted the
teachers of the society to do their duty.
	The meeting adjourned for four weeks.
Singing, “The time is far spent.” Benedic-
tion by Sister Amelia Wardrop.
		AMELIA WARDROP, Sec.


[Column 1]
ALPINE STAKE
	The fourth quarterly conference of the
Relief Society of Alpine Stake was held at
American Fork, January 24 1901.
	Meeting called to order at 10 a. m., Presi-
dent Standring presiding. Opened by
singing, “Come, come ye Saints.” Prayer
by Brother James Kirkham. Singing,
“Redeemer of Israel.”
	The Stake officers were all present and

[Column 2]
all the presidents of the war ds, as shown
by the roll call. Minutes of m orning ses-
sion of former conference read a d accepted.
	President Standring welcomed the sisters
and was pleased to see so many present.
	President Sarah Foutz reported Pleasant
Grove ward. The sisters were laying up
wheat and relieving the poor, of whom
they have quite a few; were united in their
labors.
	President Martha Woolley reported Tin-
den. Are a small ward with sixty-one
members, have a band of good sisters and
find a benefit in taking the meetings to the
houses.
	President Isadora Beck reported Manila.
They are all united and have good
meetings. Visit the sick and help the
poor.
	Counselor Anderson reported Lehi. The
society is in good condition, the sisters all
united.
	President Elizabeth Berry reported Cedar
Valley. Had a Mothers’ and Daughters’
meeting and never had a better time.
Have stored some wheat and feel they are
gradually improving.
	Alpine was reported by President Sarah
Marsh. Were relieving the poor and lay-
ing up grain. Encouraged the young
mothers to join the society.
	American Fork First Ward reported by
President Orpha Robinson. They had
bought five tons of coal for the poor and
helped the missionaries some. Are united
and getting along very well.
	American Fork Second Ward reported
by President Sarah S. Chipman. Had
held meetings at the sisters’ homes and
found quite an improvement in attendance.
	American Fork, Third Ward, reported by
President Mary E. Abel. They have good
meetings, hold two a month.
	American Fork Fourth Ward reported
by President Alice T. Steele. Are in good
condition, have the teachers report the poor
and carry them supplies. They have a
good attendance at their cottage meetings.
	Lehi North branch was reported by Sis-
ter Ellen Jones. They have fifty members
enrolled, have good teachers and are try-
ing to do their best for the furtherance of
the work of the Lord.
	President Rebecca Standring was truly
thankful to hear the reports of the presi-
dents. Spoke of Mothers’ and Daughters’
meetings, they are for the enefit of the
young women. The instruction given
should be for the improvement of the
youth of Zion, and to teach them the
principles of life and health, also for the
training of children. Spoke of the duties
of teachers, it is to carry comfort and prog-
ress to the people. They should be so
filled with the Spirit of God that they can
discern the spirits of those they visit.
God is with us in our labors, and if our
young people will attend Relief Society
meetings they will receive great benefit
and will be prepared to take the places of
their mothers. Had visited every ward in
the Stake, and the reports of the Stake
officers show the condition of the wards.
	Meeting closed by singing “How firm a
foundation,” etc. Benediction by Counselor
Harriet Jacobs.
	The afternoon session of conference con-
tinued at 2 p. m. President Rebecca
Standring presiding. Meeting opened by
singing, “Softly beams the sacred dawn-
ing,” Prayer by Brother Christensen.
Singing, “Earth with her ten thousand


flowers.” Minutes of afternoon session of
previous conference read and accepted.
	President Standring spoke of the 17th of
March and our membership fee. Thought
we should have a jubilee.
	Stake Counselor Annie C. Hindley
was glad to see so many in conference and
to hear the reports of the presidents of the
wards.
	President Joseph H. Clarke said if we
wish to progress we must do our duty.
Where the Lord has selected a person
to do a certain work, He will qualify
him for that work and bless him in the
performance of that duty. It is our duty
to sustain whoever is placed over us. The
Savior told the people to offer their prayers
in secret and He would reward them
openly.
	Singing, “The Spirit of God like a fire
is burning.”
	Stake Counselor Harriet Jacobs thought
if Paul were here today he would be con-
verted to the idea that it was good for
the sisters to speak in meetings.
	Stake Aid Rosalie Driggs enjoyed the
meeting very much. “We are blest in
having such good sisters at the head of our
society. We know they are doing their
best, and we should bring our bodies and
minds in subjection to the will of God, be
charitable to our brethren and sisters and
teach our children the ways of God.”
	President Stephen S. Chipman said, “We
certainly enjoy the spirit of our calling.
We must learn to sacrifice our feelings and
allow others to use their judgment as well
as us.”
	Brother Christensen spoke of his
travels among the Lamanites.
	Sister Ellen D. Clarke bore her testimony
and rejoiced in the truth. Had been read-
ing the old EXPONENTS and found they
were good to read. Referred to the teach-
ings on sericulture.
	Brother Jos. Kirkham read a piece of
poetry entitled “Two Words.”
	President Standring said we should take
joy and pleasure raising silk, for by this
means the sisters could clothe their chil-
dren. Urged them to try and raise silk.
They could get the eggs and a book of in-
structions for the asking.
	Singing, “Now let us rejoice.” Bene-
diction by President Stephen S. Chipman.
	EMMA FEATHERSTONE, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.
SARAH E. B. GURR.

	Sister Sarah Elizabeth Barker Gurr departed
this life, February 3, 1902. She was born in
England, January 7, 1837, and joined the Church
when but seventeen years old, married about the
same time and was the mother of nine children.
She was a model of industry and cleanliness, and
though quiet and unassuming was an ambitious
worker in the cause of righteousness.
	Sister Gurr had been a member of the R. S. of
Parowan ward since the organization, filled the
office of counselor and treasurer and was a teacher
up to the time of her demise, which was very sud-
den, being caused by a paralytic stroke.
	Sister Gurr’s history is replete with good works; 
charitable to the needy, a comforter to the de-
pressed, never wearying in well doing, none more
faithful in attending meetings; her absence will
be felt and her testimony missed, for she always
considered it a glorious privilege to testify of our
Father's goodness, and the blessings that would
follow the believer.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Resolved, That the members of the Parowan 
Ward Relief Society appreciate the Christ-like
example of Sister Gurr, and desire to profit by her
worthy example and humbly acknowledge that

[Column 2]
an over-ruling Providence doeth all things well. 
	That a copy of this remembrance be placed
upon the records of our Relief Society, one be 
sent to her devoted and worthy husband and chil-
dren and one to the Woman's Exponent for 
publication.
			E. CRANE WATSON.

AGNES GOLDING.
	Sketch and resolutions of respect to the memory 
of Sister Agnes Romania Carroll Golding, who 
departed this life December 27, 1901.
	Deceased was born April 25, 1881, at Thurber,
Wayne County. She moved with her parents to
Cainville, January 1, 1886, and was married to
Seman A. Golding in the Manti Temple, May,
1901.
	Sister Mania, as she was lovingly called, was 
not of a robust constitution, but was very ambi-
tious, self-sacrificing to a fault and willing to 
assist those in need. During the winter previous
to her marriage she attended the Snow Academy 
in Ephraim, making a good record. She was
very patient during her sickness, which lasted the
whole of her married life. She was a teacher in
the Sunday School and Relief Society, secretary
in the Y. L. M. I. A., ward clerk and Stake aid
in the Primary Association, which positions of
trust she faithfully filled. She was a bright, ener-
getic worker, humble and unassuming, and with 
her lovable disposition endeared herself to all.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT
	Resoved, That we, the officers and members of
the Relief Society, feel the loss of such a faithful
worker in the cause of the Lord in our ward.
	Resolved, That we extend our sympathy to the 
bereaved husband, father, mother, brothers, sis-
ters and relatives, and earnestly pray that the 
holy Spirit of God may rest down upon them and
comfort them.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
sent to the husband and family, one be inserted in
our records and one be published in WOMAN'S
 EXPONENT. 
		Mary E. Hanks.

ELIZA JOHANNAH HALL.
	Sister Eliza Johannah Hall was born February
3, 1857, at Fort Supply. She was the daughter of
Eliza and Eli Tracy, of Huntsville, Utah. She 
married Orson Hall in 1877, and came to Uintah Stake with her husband and family and has re-
sided at Mountain Dell ever since. 
	She was president of the Relief Society of 
Mountain Dell at the time of her death, was 
a sincere and earnest worker in the cause of truth,
a virtuous and loving wife and a kind and faithful
mother.
	She was the mother of eleven children, of whom
seven are now living. She died at Mountain
Dell, November 14, 1901.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, Our Father in Heaven has called 
from our midst Sister Eliza Johannah Hall, who 
was always faithful in performing her duties in 
the Relief Society and merited the love and re-
spect of all her associates, we feel to express our
love for her.
	Resolved, That as a sister associate and friend
we feel that words cannot fully express the esteem
in which we hold her, and while we feel the deep-
est sorrow at our loss we bow obediently to the
will of God.
	That we ever cherish her memory and strive to
follow her example by being faithful Latter-day
Saints.
	That we extend to her husband, family and
relatives our sincere sympathy for their sad loss. 
		Mary Hall.


[Column 1]
HOW I EMBRACED THE GOSPEL
	I received the Gospel in Utica, in 1842.
I spent the summer in Utica, N. Y., at the
house of Mrs. Rebecca Monroe, who was a
tailoress by trade. She was highly recom-
mended to me, and wishing to learn the
same business, I went there and felt my-
self well rewarded while there for var-
ous reasons, one being that I learned
my business, which is very profitable and
useful in families of children, especially
among the farmers. A good seamstress is
good on all ocasions, for we had no sewing
machines in those days.
	Another reason was the Gospel called

[Column 2]
Mormonism was brought there by Elder
James Blakesley, but very few people
would go to hear him, myself being one of
them. Mrs. Monroe went gladly. Her
brother, who lived in Buffalo, had written
to her to go without fail if a Mormon came
to Utica to preach.
	I would not go. I was a devoted mem-
ber of the Episcopal church. I greatly en-
joyed their form of worship. Our prayers
were so humble, so childlike, so sincere
and unitedly speaking together, I felt to
say, verily the Lord does delight to own
us and bless us, for he said, “Except ye
are one, ye are not mine.” And I thought
every one loves his own, and since God is
our Father, are we not all brothers and
sisters? Mormons can love each other and
we will do the same.
	Mrs. Monroe’s love increased for the
Mormons, and she was anxious that I
should go and hear them. Finally she told
me. The Bible tells us he who judges a
matter without hearing it is a fool. Yes, I
could plainly see this, and I said I will go
and hear him, but do not expect to see as
he does. I went, and to my astonishment
was confounded. His doctrine was to be a
strict believer in the Redeemer. But I
must take time to think, for Jesus said
there will be false prophets in the last
days. I thought this being the case, I do
not want to see a prophet. Why should
we? Is not Jesus our teacher and the New
Testament our guide?
	On the first of September I found that
two of the daughters of Mrs. Monroe were
to be baptized and three of her sisters, and
felt myself ready to join the number.
Elder Blakesley baptized us on that day. The
next Sunday Catherine’s babe was sick,
she could not go. After meeting Ruth
said, “I am going to see the sick child.” I
said, “May I go?” and Elder Blakesley
said, “May I go?” Of course he would
like a walk.
	We were soon there, going only two
blocks. After shaking hands and being
seated he asked, “If your clock were out
of repair, who do you think would be the
best repairer?”
	We looked at each other, not knowing
why he asked the question. “Do you not
think the maker of the clock would be the
best repairer?”
	“Oh, certainly,” was the reply.
	He said, “The maker of that little frame
is the best repairer.”
	The mother took the hint and said, “Will
you administer to the child?”
	“Well, let us pray,” he said.
	We all knelt down and he offered a fer-
vent prayer. We all said amen in earnest.
	He arose and laid his hands on her. She
took no notice, had not been conscious
all day. When he said amen she raised
her eyes and reached her hands to her
mother. She took her from the cradle on
her lap. She then asked for a drink of
water. After drinking she asked for some-
thing to eat, then getting down on the floor
began to play.
	This was the sister of our Bishop, Hyrum
Clawson. She married a Mr. Lamb and
lives in Utah. Her mother and I were bap-
tized at the same time. I shall never for-
get my feelings when Harriet was healed,
wishing I might realize the same when I
should be sick. It was two years before I
was sick, then I found the same remedy
produced the same effect.
	Now, I thought every one who read the


[Column 1]
Bible would be a Mormon, but found my-
self mistaken. When I  went to see our
Episcopal minister, hoping he would in-
vestigate our principles, “Oh, no,” he told
me, “I must remember that whether there
be prophecies they will fail, tongues shall
cease—”
	Here he stopped. I repeated the next
sentence, “And knowledge will vanish
away.”
	“Well,” said he, “Whoever shall add to
the words of this book, God will add the
plagues which are written there.”
	“Yes,” said I, “this is John the Reve-
lator’s vision. He would not have you add
from it.”
	He then asked to be excused, said he
must visit a sick person. I was disap-
pointed and grieved, but still hoped he
might yet see the Gospel in its own true
light.
	All this happened in September. Oc-
tober came and my time expired and I went
home to Deansville, a small village twelve
miles from Utica. Nice farms were sur-
rounding the place, in whose families I
could use my trade. My stepfather, whose
name was Joseph Dunlap, welcomed me
home and I gave him some books to read
concerning our faith. The farmers said to
me, “Your father is getting to he a Mor-
mon.” I replied, “No, he is only reading
some books.”
	Finally an Elder arrived at our home,
his name was Cyprian Marsh. But our
neighbors would not give him leave to
preach in that settlement. Our next door
neighbor, an aged woman, whose name I
do not remember, said she was acquainted
with Joseph Smith and all the Smith fam-
ily. She was a bitter enemy of theirs and
made our neighbors bitter also, so much
so that they made an effigy of Mr. Marsh
in the field opposite our house. They did
not burn it, however, they did it to vex us.
Elder Marsh was a good speaker and did
a good work. In a short time, in one week
think, our family accepted the Gospel and
were baptized in a stream which ran
through our lot. Cyprian Marsh baptized
them after damming up the stream. There
were four of them, Father Dunlap’s daugh-
ter, Ann and his brother, Dawson Dunlap,
my mother, Sarah Dunlap, and our
dressmaker, Ursula Cole, who was
sewing for us at the time. All were pleased
and thankful they had heard the Gospel.
	Elder Marsh then left us to go to Nau-
voo. We met him there in one year after.
The farmers, our neighbors, were willing
we should go, and willing to buy our
property to help us go, because they did
not like our religion. Accordingly we
were all glad to take our leave, wishing to
see and hear the Prophet.
	Father and mother must go to see my
mother’s sister who lived twenty miles
east of Utica. She hoped her sister would
enjoy this Gospel as she had done, and
wished to give her a chance. But Aunt
Mary believed in election, and said, “If
you are one of the elect you will be saved,
but if not, you will not.”

[Column 2]
	She had a daughter quite low with con-
sumption, Cousin Ann Maria Dodge. She
told me she wished me to stay with her
mother. She said, “Mother will be so
lonesome when I am gone.” My mother
gave her consent and I stayed, but in one
short week her spirit took its flight. But
father and mother were on their way to
Nauvoo, leaving my sister, Ann, with
Mrs. Monroe, in Utica.
	September arrived and Ann came for me
to go to Nauvoo, saying a company was
soon to start from Buffalo to Nauvoo. We
took leave of Aunt Mary and went. We
arrived there in time and found Mrs. Mon-
roe’s brother and family (a part of them)
went with us.
	The captain of this company was Brad-
ford Elliot. After leaving for Cincinnati
we came to the Ohio river and took a steam
boat. Here we found a company from
Boston (Brigham Young was their captain)
and others from Nauvoo, Daniel Spencer
and Heber C. Kimball, George A. Smith,
Sister Cobb and two children. Her baby
died at Cincinnati but the little girl is liv-
ing yet, here in Utah.
	We found the Boston company very
agreeable, making our trip quite a pleasant
one. We arrived in Nauvoo in September.
The weather was quite fine and the city a
pleasant one, but some enemies destroyed
the peace of the prophet, as well as of the
Church. He had been arrested and taken
before the magistrates over thirty times and
proved innocent each time. The climate
was not healthy because of the fog which
rose from the river. We all had chills and
fever, yet could attend meeting and hear
our prophet preach, I am happy to say. But
the unhappy feelings continued, and after
awhile they must see the prophet, he must
bear the blame for everything.
	He had crossed the river to see some
Indians in Iowa, with some others. Brother
John Taylor and his (Joseph’s) brother,
Hyrum, and Willard Richards were with
him. Sister Emma Smith, his wife, sent
them a person saying, “Surely the shep-
herd will not leave the sheep. O, no,
come back to the sheep, to save yourself 
and the sheep.”
	His brother said “Let us go back.” They
all took his counsel and delivered them-
selves up and went with him to Carthage.
	You know the result. Joseph and Hyrum
did not survive, they were martyrs. As
his mother said, “They are better off than
those who slew them.” But their brother
Samuel’s grief was more than he could
bear, he only lived one month. This was
in June, 1844.
	We were permitted to finish the Temple
sufficient to receive ordinances therein, then
leave it, which we did. This took one
year and a half. We had the use of it in
January, then left .for the mountains in
February, 1846, arrived the same year
at Council Bluffs and wintered there. A
part of the company, however, stopped at
Mount Pisgah for a time and a few at
Garden Grove, and others at Council
Bluffs, but the greater part reached Win

[Column 3]
ter Quarters and so many children and par-
ents died there that it seemed quite a field
of the dead.
	In April, 1846, the officers of the Church,
with Brother Brigham the captain, left for
the mountains, and in May another com-
pany followed, myself being one of them.
	The Sabbath day was a blessing to the
people as well as the cattle, and the Platte
river was also a blessing. We were bene-
fited by it nearly all the way until we came
to Green river. Here we came th chimney
rock, so called because a rock about the
size of a house at the bottom, then a black
chimney at the top singular to look at but
on the other side of the river. On this side,
we found a tree and a pail. In the tree was
a letter written by our brethren, the pion-
eers, who left it for us. Twice we found
letters for us in a tree, with the date when
they left there. Not long after we met
them on their way going home, a joyful
meeting. This was at Pacific Spring, so
called because it was the first stream which
flowed towards the Pacific ocean.
	They stopped with us two days, because
we must travel twenty miles before we
came to water. This would be hard on the
animals. After telling us the difficulties
we must meet, we bade each other fare-
well, wishing each other peace and pros-
perity.
	In one week we arrived at the Fort, our
home, built of logs by those who had re-
turned from the Mexican war. Yes, those
men to whom Brother Brigham said, “I do
not think you will fight, for the Lord said,
‘I will fight your battles.’ ”
	It was September 12 when our captain,
George B. Wallace, arrived. A part of his
company came later and took their time. 
	We had no snow for three months, and
not through the winter, as I expected. City
Creek watered the ground nicely. One of
the company had a large ox, the poorest
animal. I ever saw the property of Joseph
Dunlap. In six weeks it was fat and good
and was killed. The beef was as tender as
a chicken.
	Well, all the cattle were the same, no
doubt, and by dividing our share with the
Indians we made friends with them. Yet
they would sometimes help themselves to
our cattle when they could find a herd
some distance from a settlement. This
taught us that we must watch as well as
pray, and do as we wish to be done by
under such circumstances.
					M. E. K.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage.  We aim to give you as
	much as possible for you money.					TRY US.

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank n Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order.  Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired. 
			LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation

Vol. 30	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL, 1902	No. 12


CONTENTS.
The Age We Live In..........................E. B. W.	89
Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting A Wardrop		90
Dr. Thomas Dunn English Dead.....................	90
March 17th Celebrations................................	91
Compliment to Governor Wells Clara Barton	92
Anniversaries, 1842-1902..............................	92
Notice to all Interested in Silk Culture..........
	...................................Margaret A. Caine	93
Sixth Ward Celebration. Elizabeth W. Condie	95
R. S. Reports...................................................	95
Program for U. S. D. R. 1902 1903................	96
Tooele Celebration................Lillian Gillespie	96
A Pleasant Time..................Catharine Naisbitt	90
EDITORIAL—Hull House, Chicago.............	92
POETRY—April’s Afield..................Selected	89
	Our Harvest Years......................Selected	89
	Relief Society Sextennial. Ellis R. Shipp	91


APRIL’S AFIELD.
April’s afield, April’s in the air!
	Almost you may see each hour
Willows that at dawn were bare,
Meadows that were brown,
	On which the lengthening mellow day has burned,
Creep into green before the sun goes down,
	And some black bough while mortal backs were
		turned,
		Swift stolen into flower.

April’s afield, April’s in the air! 
Fleeting over Earth’s slow dust,
Leaving us behind here, where
Pass and repass the years.
	Soulless as Echo she can never know
Our kisses that she hastens, nor our tears.
	Not for us watchers do her blossoms blow;
		Their day is come—they must.

April’s afield, April’s in the air!
	Heavy Winter turns his feet
Northward with his load of care;
And on April’s wings
	Unreasoning our human hearts upsoar,
As hearts have done since they were human
		things,
	As human hearts shall do for ever more
		When ours forget to beat.
						SELECTED.


OUR HARVEST YEARS.

When russet apples turn each bronzed cheek
To catch a final beauty from the sun;
When the first frost with pencil fine and true
The tinting of the leaves has just begun;
Then nature still can turn one fairer page,
It is the mellow year’s s[-]eet middle age.

When the bright world hangs out a tender haze 
To veil her scarlet colors grown so bold;
When in full fruitage droops the ripened corn
And nature’s green is turned to red and gold;
Then do we feel that in loved nature’s shrine
Four season’s wondrous blessings doth combine.

To all the riches of the summer, spring,
The hazel copse now adds a store of wealth;
The nests are empty, but the birdlings gay,
Now sing their own sweet songs by stealth;
from gen’rous laden trees the brown nuts fall,
For earth her treasure now doth yield to all.

Thus, in our human lives, those years are best,
Those harvest years with love and children blest
We see our nestlings mate in their glad spring,
And know their love is not so grand a thing
As it will be when autumn’s glory sheds
The rapture of all seasons on their heads.
			SELECTED.


Miss Wright, daughter of the Mayor of
Denver, has been invited to christen the
new Battleship “Denver,” which is to be 
launched in April.


[Column 1]
THE AGE WE LIVE IN.
[Read by the writer at the Thursday evening
session of the Fourth Triennial of the National
Council of Women of the United States, February
20, 1992, in Washington D. C., held at Carroll
Institute.]
	In taking a retrospective view of the
nineteenth century, (of which we older
people have some real knowledge), its stir-
ring events, its victories and triumphs in
many directions and its advancement along
many lines leading to higher thought and
better living, and summing up the tacts and
figures, one who observes carefully cannot
help feeling it contains an unmistakable
prophecy of the future development of the
race of mankind.
	Referring back to the days of Joel, the
prophet, who foresaw these later times in
which we live, we read, "Your old men
shall dream dreams, and your young men
shall see visions.” And they are not only
dreaming and seeing visions, but the real-
ization of all and more than has been fore-
told.
	Indeed mankind is fast approaching a 
time when still greater events will transpire
than have ever been known since the earth
was formed and man given dominion there-
in for in this age the product of the civil-
zation of all the ages, and of the splen- 
did achievements and accumulated knowl-
edge of all the centuries is with the people
of the world.
	All the attainments that have ever been
reached by the greatest scientists, discover-
ers, inventors, explorers, artists and arti-
zans, and their labors in the various fields
of knowledge and of industries, down
through the ages of time, have an existence
still, and have left their impress and effect
upon the world that can never be wholly
effaced or blotted out.
	History may not have preserved it all,
there may be no tangible record of what
has been gained, but sometime we shall
know that nothing has been irretrievably
lost.
	Men talk of the lost arts of the medieval
times, but really that which is considered
so, much of it, still exists in some form or
way, in the realm of space, seen or unseen
and that which is passed away is more
than compensated for in the munificent
present.
	Who would not rather live today than
in the ‘‘good old times” of which some of
us talk so glibly ? This is the day which
the greatest men of all the ages foresaw
and looked forward to with joyful antici-
pation, and which they ‘‘longed for and
wished for and sought but never found.”
	In a thousand ways the people of this
age have the advantage of those who
lived in more primitive times, notwith-
standing all that is told of the greatness of
buried cities, now being unearthed, and the
wonderful art of the preservation of mum-
mies known to the ancients. Not even
the vastness and permanency of the Egyp-
tian Pyramids could convince the nine-
teenth century man that people then were
more enlightened or more advanced in the
arts and sciences than the present gener-

[Column 2]
ation; and what would be said of that day in
comparison with the glowing possibilities
and larger opportunities of this newer cen-
tury.
	Again much that has been done long,
ago was by individual effort, or through,
the agency or genius of one or more great
men, leaders of thought and enterprise; in
our day there is combined force and concert,
of action of men of wisdom, of intelligence
and of courage that never falters, and by,
organized bodies of able and competent
men to bring about all that is accomplished,
of great significance.
	In this age we have organization.cooper-
ation, union of labor and of skill such as
never was known before among any people
or race of men throughout the long lines
of our ancestry from the days of Father
Adam down to the year of our Lord 1902,
and rapid strides are being made onward
towards perfection in many things and
many ways, and this is but the beginning, 
as it were, of the days of marvelous works
and wonders.
	It would be impossible to enumerate all
the new devices and discoveries in science
man has wrought out that tend to better
surroundings and easier conditions and cir-
cumstances for the masses of the people,
and to lighten the labor of woman in.the
household and elsewhere, thus increasing
the possibilities for higher education and
culture and making life more pleasant and
desirable, not only to the rich and well to
do, but to the working people, who are the
bone and sinew of the world of mankind
and whose well being must be considered
in every great question that agitates the
world.
	When one considers the growth of true
knowledge gained through a few recent
years, as compared with the same period of
time farther back, one cannot help estimat-
ing and calculating what the generations
yet to come will be able to bring about
with the superior advantages and manifold
opportunities that these changed conditions
will render possible.
	Woman as well as man is taking part in
the great drama of the ages, and is making
her influence felt along many lines of pro-
gress in various directions, and in many
matters pertaining to the present and the
future, the earth and the heavens.
	One of the tremendous forces more recent-
ly brought into active exercise, which bail
heretofore lain partially dormant, is this
awakening of woman and her cooperation
with man in the world’s great work
	She comes upon the stage of the
great drama of the world’s history at the
most opportune time, when there is need of
her intuition and genuine service, and.slie
has come to stay until all is accomplished
that now lies hidden from view in the
womb of the unborn years
	To be sure we might say woman has
acted wisely her part heretofore, and what-
ever has been undertaken by man in the
past in one way or another has been
supplemented by woman, and she has done
the work well which seemed most essential
to build up or help the family life to rear


[Column 1]
sons and daughters for future generations,
to smooth the rough places and diffuse
sunshine and sweetness, to bestow mercy
and tenderness in the routine assigned to
all mankind through the circumstances
and environments in which their lot seemed
to be cast.
	The old saying “man must work and
woman must wait,” might be arranged to
read, “Woman must work while she waits
for the wheels of progress to roll around.”
But that condition for her is now nearly
over, and the time has come when she can
lift up her voice and say, in the words of
Solomon the wise man, “Give her of the fruit
of her hands, and let her own works praise
her in the gates.”
	Civilization and enlightenment have
reached a phase that could no longer brook
the somewhat dependent stage of woman’s
powers that had for centuries existed, and
woman herself began gradually and percep-
tibly to throw off the lethargy in which she
had become enveloped like a shroud, and to
supplicate, entreat and sometimes to de-
mand for herself and her sex, more privi-
leges and a broader field in which to
exercise her mental and moral forces and
activities, and to teach this higher thought
to others, diffusing the element of greater
hope to her fellow women until the leaven
thus generated, that was no larger than a
grain of mustard seed gave new life and
power to rise to all women who would par-
take of its influence; and many felt the
divine afflatus, and the spirit of this awak-
ening has become, as it were, general until
man himself is more or less conscious of the
strength of this seemingly immaterial yet
intense vitality in woman that is permeat-
ing the world.
	Thousands of women have been praying
for this day and age in which we live, and
are now basking in its sunshine of progress
and development the prophets and seers
of old, the sages and poets all down along
the line have lifted their voices in antici-
pation of such a time, a day of freedom
that has already begun to dawn; its roseate
light of splendor is lighting up the ever-
lasting hills of promise, and we see it draw-
ing nearer. The faith of the many who
thirsted for righteousness has so far pre-
vailed that greater light has come into the
world and broader charity and love is be-
ing disseminated, truth that will dispel the
darkness of error; and bye and bye through
the potent agencies now fermenting in
nearly all lands, the blessed day of peace
will hasten on, the universal brotherhood
of man, the dream of the greatest, the best
and wisest men and women of all the ages;
and it will reach the climax of its fulfill-
ment in the century that has just dawned.
	The inspiring influences that have been
causing this uplifting are all in the program
marked out for the children of our Father in
heaven, let those who dare deny it! But
as sure as the scriptures are true and they
are true, so sure woman must be instru-
mental in bringing about the restoration of
that equality which existed when the world
was created, when the morning stars sang
together and the sons of God shouted for
joy. Woman was there in that harmon-
ious gathering, endowed with all her pris-
tine purity and loveliness, and shared with
man the honors of that momentous occasion.
The scriptures teach that God created man
in His own image, male and female created
He them, and said unto them “Be fruitful
and multiply and replenish the earth and

[Column 2]
subdue it, and have dominion over every
living thing that moveth upon the earth.”
Perfect equality then, and so it must be
when all things are restored as they were
in the beginning. It is this spirit stirring
within woman that is to bring her back
again to that primeval state that existed in
the Garden of Eden. It is the song of the
poets ringing down the ages, and, as it
were, the echoes of the divine music of a
far-off region of sublime hopes and aspira-
tions that had lingered in the soul without
power of expression, a dim memory of
something far distant, call it by what name
you will, it is an incentive to higher
thought—an ideal, a superb height of ex-
cellence towards which we are climbing,
slowly, may be, but surely. Christ has
given us the pattern, and He has told us to
love one another, given as a divine com:
mandment, and it is this great universal
love that will eventually redeem the world.
	It is not the few whose path in life is to be
made easy, but it is the masses from all
lands and among all peoples who must
come up to this standard of excellence
given by our Savior, the Golden Rule,
“Do unto others as ye would they should
do unto you” and when men and women
keep this law, then will come the time of
“Peace on earth, good will to all mankind,”
and let it be in this century, when the in-
spired poet Tennyson’s words shall come
to pass.

"For I dipt into the future, far as human eye
	could see,
Saw the vision of the world and all the wonder
	that would be.
* * *
Till the war-drum throbbed no longer
	And the battle-flags were furl’d,
In the parliament of man the
	Federation of the world." 

		E. B. W.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING,

	The Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting was
held in the 14th ward hall, February 1,
1902, Counselor E. J. Stevenson presiding.
	Singing, “For the strength of the hills
we bless Thee.” Prayer by Sister Margaret
Steele. Singing, “Our God we raise to
Thee.” The minutes of last meeting read
and accepted.
	Sister Stevenson said she felt blessed in
coming to meeting. She had been to
Ogden to the birthday of Sister Jane S.
Richards, they had a nice time. Urged
the sisters to do their duty as teachers, as it
was a grand calling and a great privilege.
Spoke of the time being too short to do
what she would like to do, felt a desire to
visit the poor and urged the sisters to come
to meeting.
	Sister Squires felt the Lord had blessed
her. Wished to do all the good she could.
	Sister Saunders enjoyed coming to
meeting. Other sisters in the congregation
bore their testimony to the truth of the
Gospel and felt to thank the Lord for the
blessings they had received.
	Sister Agnes Jones, said she had a testi-
mony to bear. She had visited these
meetings ever since the first organization,
was always pleased to see the teachers come
to her house.
	Sister Mary A. Hardy thought every one
ought to bear a testimony. She felt it a
great blessing to come to meeting, and two
sisters said they were pleased to come to
these meetings. They felt well in doing
their duty, and felt glad they were teachers

[Column 2]
in the Relief Society. Thought we could
not do too much for the Lord.
	Sister Anderson felt thankful to the
Lord and hoped always to prove faithful.
	Sister Sarah Stanley spoke of the great
affliction of losing the use of her arm, but
by the use of the oil and the blessing of the
Lord it was restored again. Urged the
young sisters to come to meeting.
	Counselor Sarah Jane Cannon appreciated
coming to meeting, spoke of the teachers
coming out and doing their duty. We all
feel well in doing our duty, she thought
that in other churches many of the mem-
bers attend to their meetings better than
we do. She felt the time was too short to
waste and urged all to strive to do their
duty, for we are all responsible for our own
part.
	Sister Knox bore her testimony to the
truthfulness of the Gospel. Knew Joseph
Smith was a Prophet of God.
	Stake Counselor J. E. Taylor spoke of
the gift of healing, of the faith of a little
boy in healing by administration through
the teachings of his mother. Urged all to
have faith in the Lord, in case of sickness
to call upon Him in faith and He would
heal them. Urged all to cultivate the
spirit of healing, said the duties of the
Elders when called upon to administer was
to rebuke the disease. Advised the sisters
to have sympathy for one another.
	President Angus M. Cannon thought
when praying to the Lord we often asked
for things that we did not need, the Lord
knows best. Spoke of several circumstan-
ces of sickness in his family, of the
blessing of the Lord through faith and
administration, of the differences in having
faith in the Lord and faith in the doctor.
When we ask the Lord to bless the sick we
should say, “Thy will be done.” We
will be pleased when we all get through
and all rejoice together.
	Sister Margaret Hull was set apart as
treasurer of the Salt Lake Relief Society,
President Angus M. Cannon officiating.
Sister Hull then sang, “One Bright Crown
for Me.”
	Sister Stevenson thanked Presidents
Cannon and Taylor for coming to visit us.
Meeting adjourned for four weeks. Bene-
diction by President Cannon.
			AMELIA WARDROP, Sec.


DR. THOMAS DUNN ENGLISH DEAD. 
	Dr. Thomas Dunn English died at New-
ark, N. J., on Tuesday, April 1.
	Dr. English was a writer of some note,
was widely known as the author of “Ben
Bolt.” He was born in Philadelphia in
1819 and was graduated from the Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania as a doctor of medi-
cine in 1839. Later he studied law and was
admitted to the Philadelphia bar. He en-
gaged in journalism in New York from
1844 to 1859, when he came to Newark to
practice medicine. He was a member of
the New Jersey legislature in 1863 and
1864. He served two terms in the Con-
gress from New Jersey.


No one need despair of a chance so long
as God has any tomorrows left—JAMES
BUCKHAM.
	There is no sex in truth, patriotism, in-
telligence or justice,—JUDGE W. G.
EWING.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY SEXTENNIAL.
Ye sisters of the covenant, the new and never end-
	ing.
My sisters dear, I greet you, with love and honor
	blending;
Greet you as that faithful band our prophet or-
	ganized,
Of women first in history, as now well recognized.
Greet you, generous, loyal friends, God’s noble
	women you,
At this, the sixtieth milestone, still brave and good
	and true.
Organized for sweet relief, you marked the dawn-
	ing age.
When daughters of our King should turn a bright,
	new page,
’Twas then the prophet Joseph Smith, with fore-
	sight more than human,
By heavenly inspiration, “turned the key for
	woman.”
For sisterhood throughout the world, was destined
	then to be
A broader field of usefulness, new life and liberty!
As by contrast we can see greater cause for happi-
	ness,
And our comforts better know after seasons of dis-
	tress,
Let us glance at woman’s status in the dark be-
	nighted ages
So vividly depicted in old historic pages:
With retrospective vision briefly view the by-gone
	years
With the thraldom then existing, their sorrows
	and their tears,
Their base, luxurious living, their slavery and sin,
Their rank and dire oppression and all the woe 
	therein:
When might not right was victor, man’s noble
	nature slept,
When woman in subjection in pain and anguish
	wept,
When fickle kings would weary and seek a fairer
	flower,
And doom their frail companions to terrors of the
	tower.
And some could almost likened be to beasts of
	burden then;
Abused downtrodden and oppressed—the mothers
	too of men!
These mothers who had given by nature’s sweet
	accord,
 o man the boon of living, and this the base re-
	ward!
In the higher education, she could not then take
	part
To develop all the powers of head and hand and
	heart,
Their minds dwarfed and narrowed in mould of
	serfdom formed.
Till the kindling touch of heaven man’s frozen
	heartstrings warmed
Until the youthful prophet, taught by angels as of
	old.
Opened up this Dispensation, all its glories to un-
	fold,
Unbarred the gates long guarded and opened wis-
	dom’s vault,
That woman with her brother might all her powers
	exalt,
To share with man life’s struggle, or good or ill
	betide,
As helpmeets and companions walk nobly by his
	side.
In truth the time had come for the world to recog-
	nize
That woman had a mission, from obscurity must
	rise
To nobler fields of usefulness, and higher realms
	of thought,
Into life’s grand arena should her tenderness be
	brought.
Then to smooth the roughened places, to touch
	the hidden spring,
Of man’s innate humanity, and from its treasures
	bring
The purest gems of virtue, true philanthropy and
	love,
To ameliorate man’s present state, his noble
	nature prove.
She has gained more brilliant victories than wars
	have ever done,
By her gentle, kind persuasion the brightest laur-
	els won.
Then, too, as prudent stewards, you store the
	precious grain,
That want may be averted till harvest comes
	again.
You feed the hungry, clothe the poor, give gener-
	ous relief;
You soothe the sad and stricken ones, in deep dis-
	tress and grief;
You minister with gentle hand to sick and suffer-
	ing,

[Column 2]
With faith and love and holy peace in all your
	ministering.
And yours at times the duty is to note the latest
	breath,
To hear the solemn last good byes, to close the
	eyes in death;
Prepare the burial clothes, enshroud the silent
	forms,
As mothers to the motherless take orphans to your
	arms.
In a thousand ways you labor; what would our
	Bishops do
Without your kind assistance, so valiant, staunch
	and true!
Truer, better wives and mothers all are seeking to
	become,
To bring the best of heart and hand to glorify the
	home.
God bless you, noble sisters true, in works of
	sacred love,
May your self-abnegation bring great blessings
	that will prove
As “bread cast on the waters” to again return to
	you.
May the structure that you builded prove better
	than you knew.
Then hail! dear sisters. faithful vorkers in the
	noble cause!
Thy deeds of charity and love may lack the
	world’s applause,
But there is One who knoweth—thy worth the
	angels tell,
And thy reward is doubly sure—He doeth all
	things well!
					ELLIS R. SHIPP.


[Column 1]
MARCH 17TH CELEBRATIONS.

HEBER CITY.
	The Relief Society of the two wards of
Heber celebrated the sixtieth anniversary
of the organization on the 17th of March
in a pleasing manner in Turner’s Opera
House, commencing at one o’clock p. m.
	The program consisted of songs, recita-
tions and speeches, after which a delicious
lunch was served. The evening was spent
in dancing, interspersed with songs and
recitations. A very enjoyable time was
spent by all present.
		CHRISTINA GILES.

RIVERDALE.
	The Relief Society of Riverdale, Weber
Co., Utah, held annual day exercises on
March 17, 1902, this being the sixtieth
anniversary of the organization.
	The exercises were held in the ward
meeting house, commencing at eleven
o’clock a. m., President Mary M. Dye pre-
siding. The congregation sang, “Come,
let us anew.” Prayer by Elder Richard
Dye. The M. I. A. sang, “How swift the
months have passed.” President Mary M.
Dye gave to all a welcome and spoke upon
the organization of the Relief Society.
Recitation, Lucinda Fife. A paper upon
the organization of the Relief Society was
read by Sarepta Child. Duett, Margaret
Fife and Amy Bybee.
	Patriarch Sanford of Bingham spoke of
the Relief Society and its good work
among the poor and needy. Felt in his
heart to bless them, for they were trying to
comfort those who need assistance.
	Remarks were made by Sister Edna
Stimpson, who was counselor to our late
president, a mixed quartette was rendered
by Nancy Bybee, Sarah Dye, James Bingh-
am and Samuel G. Dye, and remarks were
made by Counselor Mary Stimpson.
	Bishop A. A. Bingham was thankful
that the Relief Society was in the ward, as
it is a great help. He knew the sisters
to be good, faithful women, and prayed
the Lord to bless them in their labors.
	Remarks were made by Counselor
Martha A. Fife, Brothers William Stimp-

[Column 2]
son and Joseph Fife. “Praise to the man”
was sung by the congregation.
	Counselor Samuel G. Dye, of the Bishop-
ric, realized the importance of the Relief
Society work and knew the sisters
to be women of wisdom, patience and in-
dustry. “By their works ye shall know
them,” and they will be rewarded accord-
ing to their works.
	Benediction was pronounced by Brother
William C. Parker.
	By the assistance of the young ladies
a bountiful repast was spread, and after
partaking of the same, a social time was
enjoyed. Songs, recitations, music and
step dancing by the older brethren were
enjoyed by all.
	In the evening a grand ball was given
which was participated in by old and
young.
		MARY M. DYE, Pres.

FOURTEENTH WARD.
	The Fourteenth Ward Relief Society
had a pleasant social gathering of the
members of the ward in honor of the
sixtieth anniversary of the organizotion of
the Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph
Smith, in Nauvoo, March 17, 1842.
	The opening hymn, “Praise to the man
who communed with Jehovah,” was sung
by the congregation. Prayer was offered
by Counselor T. E. Taylor. Singing, “We
thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.” A
brief address of welcome by President M.
W. Wilcox. Solo by Miss Ida Due. A
sketch of the life of Emma Smith, Sister
Caroline Smoot. Recitation by Miss Vida
Fox. “The Seer” was sung by Brother
Thomas Poulter. Interesting remarks
were made upon the life of the Prophet
Joseph by Brother Samuel W. Richards.
Solo by Sister Maggie Hull. Recitation
by Miss Frankie Young. Remarks by
Brother M. E. Taylor. Recitation by
Brother Thomas Hull. Selection by the
choir led by Brother Butler. Benediction,
Brother J. E. Fox.
	Refreshments were then served and a
pleasant social time was spent by all
present.

FIFTH WARD.
	The Fifth Ward annual gathering took
place on Monday afternoon, March 17th,
1902, to commemorate the organization of
the Relief Society.
	The meeting was opened by singing,
“Praise to the man who communed with
Jehovah.” Prayer was offered by Sister
M. A. Rich. Singing, “We thank Thee,
O God, for a prophet,” after which a most
interesting and instructive program was
rendered.
	Address of welcome, President R. H.
Pettitt. Essay on Relief Society work by
Annie Griffiths. Recitation, “A Woman’s
Life,” Hannah Jerram. Duett, Annie
Bird and H. Nuttall. Reading minutes of
the first organization of the Relief Society,
Margaret Buchanan. Piano solo, Theresa
Carlquist. Recitation, Annie Marcroft.
Mandolin and guitar duett, Samuel Sed-
don and Joseph Walsh. Remarks on early
days, Richard Brimley. Singing, “Now
let us rejoice.” Benediction by Brother
W. Brimhall.
	After the program refreshments were
served and dancing and a general good
time was indulged in. To see the old folks
enjoy themselves was decidedly entertain-
ing.
		A GUEST.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent. 

EMMELINE D. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparie
[--]ace one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
econd-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL, 1902.


COMPLIMENT TO GOVERNOR WELLS
	Washington, D. C., March 4, 1902.
Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells:
	MY DEAR MRS. WELLS:—I was so unfor-
tunate as not to see you to bid you good
bye before you left and your little package
of papers which I meant to return is still
here. I will enclose it in this, and I want
to say that the letter of your nephew is the
most concise body of arguments in favor of
Woman Suffrage and against its opponents
that I have ever read. In fact, it leaves
nothing to be said, excepting “Why don’t
you do it then?” I shall long remember
my pleasant days with Utah in Washing-
ton, and hope for a repetition of them on
the home soil.
	With love to any friends whom you may
see, I remain,
			Affectionately yours, 
				CLARA BARTON.


[Column 1]
HULL HOUSE, CHICAGO.
	Probably most of the readers of the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT have heard of Hull
House in Chicago, and if so will be inter-
ested to know more of this economic, phil-
anthropic enterprise for industrial women,
which in so short a time has become cele-
brated the world over.
	Hull House is known as the result of
the magnanimity of one woman, so to
speak. Miss Jane Addams, who was the
founder and has been the active promoter
of the interests for which Hull House has
become famous.
	The object of Hull House is (as stated in
its charter) “to provide a center for a high-
er civic and social life; to institute and
maintain educational and philanthropic
enterprises, and to instigate and improve
the conditions in the industrial districts of
Chicago.”
	Ladies who have been residents of Hull
House sometimes give public lectures on
the institution at great conventions and
assemblies, telling of the good it has ac-
complished; but though one has heard a
half dozen of lectures on the subject one
cannot realize the great work done by
listening to the theory, as one can in actual-
ly going through the house and taking it
as an object lesson, and even then one
searcely comprehends the value and im-
portance of the work and what it must
mean to those who have been participants
in its benefits, until one has fully digested
what one has seen.

[Column 2]
	One might be justified in speaking of it
as a great business center, and yet it is
even more. It has a social, a moral and
intellectual side as well as industrial and
economic; and further it has higher edu-
cational and artistic advantages. In fact
it combines almost everything necessary to
life and the pursuit of happiness.
	Perhaps a list of what is taught there
may give the reader some idea of the mag-
nitude of the work undertaken and which
has proved so beneficial in improving con-
ditions that looking at previously seemed
appalling.
	For “Classes advanced” the spring term
begins April 1, and continues ten weeks,
and the fee for each course is fifty cents.
Secondary classes are free but all students
are required to register. Each day in the
week is devoted to a given subject—the
subjects are: Rhetoric, Reading, Grammar,
Poetry, General History, United States
History, Parliamentary Law, etc.
	Art and Technical Classes, fifty cents for
a term of ten lessons. This includes:
Carpentry, Sloyd, Wood Carving and Pot-
tery, Mechanical Drawing and Design-
ing, Basket Weaving, Metal Work, Clay
Moulding, Architectural Sculpture, Draw-
ing, Painting, Designing, Sketching,
Dressmaking, Millinery, Embroidery, Study
of Textile Industries, Sewing and Cooking,
In the cookery Miss Addams herself in-
structs both women and children on differ-
ent days: for instance women on Tuesday
and children on Wednesday.
	Gymnastic classes for men and boys, also
women and girls. Mr. Pearson of the Y.
M. C. A. Training School for Physical
Education has charge of the men and boy’s
Gymnasium this year, and Saturday
evenings have been given over to game
and basket ball practice. The woman’s
class has also begun its basket ball
practice.
	There are dancing classes for adults and
children, arranged for beginners and those
advanced and a nominal price or fee, with
excellent teachers in all departments.
	Music and singing are made a specialty,
they have public recitals in the Hull House
Auditorium. Audiences are enthusiasiic
on these occasions. Recently the Hull
House music classes gave a program of folk
song and dances in national costume that
was very successful financially and other-
wise. Remember these are the children of
the working people, and in many instances
the very poor.
	Hull House Clubs are a social feature as
well as educational and are all systematical-
ly arranged and under careful management.
There is the Jane Club, which is incorpor-
ated and maintains a club house for young
women upon the cooperative plan, the
weddings of the inmates of Hull House
take place in the Jane Club House.
	There is the Woman’s Club. This club
sometimes gives neighborhood parties
under the Social Extension Com-
mittee. There is the Hull House Shakes-
peare Club, Hull House Men’s Club, Hull
House Dramatic Association. Evening
Clubs are the Drexel, Henry Clay, Howe,
Washington Irving, Medill Alumnie Aria-
dne, Progressive Literary and Social Club,
Sewing Club, Gospel Club, Goodrich
Alumnie and more than a dozen others, so
that one can see much of the instruction is
given in this interesting way.
	Hull House has what is known as a
Labor Museum. For five afternoons and
evenings each week these rooms are used

[Column 3]
for classes, but on Saturday evening the
entire floor is devoted to the Labor
Museum and the public is cordially invited.
It is designed to show the development in
methods of production from the earliest
times, and as nearly as possible to illustrate
the differences of various nations. Actual
work is going on in wood work, metal
work, pottery, cooking, spinning, weaving,
basket work, printing, book binding and
clay modeling. The trades are further
illustrated by collections, charts and pic-
tures, which are open for study and in-
spection. In spinning five national cus-
toms are regularly shown, Syrian, Greek,
Italian, Russian and Irish.
	We must not forget that an excellent
Kindergarten is included in the Hull
House work; babies and little tots are
taken care of through the day for the
mothers, who go out to work, for five
cents per day.
	In short, Hull House includes every
department of household work, trades and
industries in all the several branches,
and its social life is something almost mar-
velous in the outcome. There is a com-
fortable restaurant for working men and
women with good plain wholesome fare at
a reasonable price. A library and reading
room, lecture halls and lectures by cele-
brated men and women, always free on
Sunday nights.
	At some future time we hope to tell you
something more about Hull House and
what it has done for the community round
about, and the splendid example it has
given others to do likewise.


ANNIVERSARIES, 1842-1902.
BENNINGTON, IDAHO.

	The sixtieth anniversary of the organiza-
tion of the Relief Society was duly cele-
brated by the people of our ward. Meet-
ing commenced at ten a m. An address
of welcome was given by President Mar-
garet Van Orman, after which a program
consisting of speeches, songs and instru-
mental music was rendered. An excellent
sketch on the life of Aunt Zina Young was
given by Sister Rebecca Lindsay. Original
recitations were given by Mr. James
McCouan, one on St. Patrick’s Day caus-
ing much merriment.
	At two o’clock one hundred and seventy
people were seated at the tables which 
were loaded with a delicious dinner, and
served royally. While enjoying the dainty
repast sweet music was furnished by a
number of young ladies.
	At 3:30 p. m. the program was con-
tinued, consisting of singing, instrumental
music and step dancing, in which some of
the older people excel. A letter from our
worthy Bishop, A. R. Wright, who is now
laboring among the Lamanites, was read
by Silas Wright and was much appreciated
by all.
	Badges were given to all over fifty-five
years of age, and the day’s enjoyment con-
cluded with a grand ball in the evening in
which all the older people participated.
	On the 18th dinner was served at the
meeting house to ninty-three school chil-
dren, after which they were allowed to
“trip the light fantastic.” The young
people danced to their heart’s content that
evening.
	Much praise is due the committee for
their zealous work in making such a gala
day. It will long be remembered by all


[Column 1]
participants as a day of perfect enjoyment,
peace and harmony.
				AN OBSERVER.
NINTH WARD.
	The sixtieth anniversary of the organiza-
tion of the Relief Society was celebrated in
the Ninth Ward meeting house, March 17,
1902, President Mary Mair presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing, “We thank
Thee, O God, for a prophet.” Prayer by
Sister E. L. Webb. Singing, “O My
Father.”
	A program consisting of songs, recita-
tions and singing by the younger members
of the ward was rendered.
	Sister Lucy W. Smith Kimball made
interesting remarks on the early history of
the Church and the organization of the
Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph
Smith. She paid a glowing tribute to Sister
Emma Smith, the first president of the
Relief Society.
	Brother C. W. Penrose said the Prophet
Joseph was inspired of God when he or-
ganized this society. It was a great help
to the Bishops of the different wards. He
advised the sisters to meet together often
and strengthen each other by their testi-
monies and faith in this great work, said
the Lord would protect and guide us if our
hearts were right before Him.
	Bishop J. W. West realized the good
work the sisters were accomplishing in
ministering to the sick and assisting the
poor.
	Brother O. A. Pettit also made timely
remarks and encouraged the sisters to press
forward in the good work.
	An excellent luncheon was partaken of
by all present which numbered over one
hundred. After luncheon there were more
recitations and singing. The meeting was
then brought to a close, Sister Martha
Barrow pronouncing the benediction.
						M. M. G.
ORANGEVILLE.
	A celebration was held March 17, 1902,
by the Relief Society of Orangeville, in
commemoration of the sixtieth anniversary
of the organization of the Relief Society at
Nauvoo, Ill.
	The Social Hall was very tastefully dec-
orated for the occasion, the ladies hall
being too small to accomodate the large
crowd, as the general public was invited.
	Religious exercises were held in the
afternoon, President R. E. Robertson pre-
siding. Singing, “Praise to the man.”
Prayer by Brother P. A. Childs. Singing,
“Oh, give me back my Prophet dear.”
Sketch of the life of the Prophet Joseph
Smith by N. T. Guyman. Sr. Historical
sketch of the Relief Society organization,
General, Stake and Ward, by Sister Maria
Guyman. Music on the accordean by
Brother A. Anderson. Reminiscences of
the Prophet Joseph Smith by Sister J. P.
Curtis. Recitation, “Fraught by the
Mother’s of Men,” by Sister Mary Jewkes.
Original poem by Sister J. E. Childs:
Essay on the Relief Society by Sister A.
M. Fitt. Around, “The Praise of our King,”
was then rendered by the choir. Remarks
by President R. E. Robertson. Song,
“Take Me Home,” by Brother and Sister
Hadfield. Recitation, “The Magic Key,”
by Sister Lizzie Reid. Appropriate and
interesting remarks were made by Bishop
Joseph Robertson. Singing, “Our God,

[Column 3]
we raise to Thee.” Benediction by the
chaplain.
	One of the pleasing features of the after-
noon was the singing by the Relief Society
choir, under the leadership of Sister Rachel
Hillian.
	The party in the evening was well at-
tended by old and young. The dancing
was interspersed with the following pro-
gram: Song by Brother A. Jewkes. Song
and step dance by Sister Eliza Cork.
Music by Joseph Jewkes, Robert Johnson
and J. D. Jewkes. Lecture on charity by
Sister M. Tuttle. Song by Loraine and
Joseph Jewkes. Song by Florence Hawkes
and others. Song, “Flitting Away,” by
Adelaide Thompson.
	Picnic was passed about 11:30 p. m. Old
time dances were a part of the evening’s
entertainment, which were indulged in by
all.
	The committee were Hattie S. Reid, R.
E. Robertson, S. E. Curtis, Jane Moffitt,
Amelia Jewkes, Anna M. Fitt and Mary
Cox.
CEDAR CITY.
	The 17th of March was celebrated by the
Relief Society holding a special meeting at
two p. m. in the ward hall. Everybody
was invited and a large attendance was
present.
	The program previously arranged by a
committee of sisters was duly appreciated:
Vocal and instrumental music by several of
our young ladies, biographical sketches,
speeches and readings occupied the time.
	Sister M. A. Lunt, our former Stake
president made a very interesting and
timely speech. We all missed the presence
of our beloved Sister A. E. Webster, who
for so many years was the leading spirit of
our society, but was not able to be with us
at this time on account of her poor health.
	Brother Webster by request spoke for a
short time, referring to the great progress
the society had made in general and the
great good accomplished by the sisters.
	We have but a few in our midst now
who were numbered among the mem-
bers of the first organization of the Relief
Society of this place which occurred in the
year 1856.
	The ten cent fund was promptly attended
to during a few minutes intermission
which was taken up in an interchange of
greeting and general hand shaking.
	Our society is at the present time in a
thriving conditien under the general super-
vision of President Ann E. Thorley and
counselors, Mary Armstrong and Lucy
Jones.
	JANE P. MACKELPRANG, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	To no class of women is the subject of
equal suffrage of such vital importance as
to the working women. To them it be-
comes an industrial as well as a political
question.—JANE ADDAMS.
	Mrs. Roosevelt has received through
John Berrett, delegate to the Pan-
American Congress, a gift from President
Diaz of Mexico, consisting of three pieces
of exquisitely drawn linen. They are said
to be the most beautiful specimens that
have ever come to this country, and were
sent to Mrs. Roosevelt as a special recog-
nition of her encouragement to the linen
workers in Porto Rico.


NOTICE TO ALL INTERESTED IN SILK
			CULTURE.

	The Utah Silk Commission take pleasure
in again notifying the people of our State
that the season for raising silk worms is
here again, and that we are prepared to
send silk worm eggs to those who desire to
engage in this industry this year. We
have already received many letters from
those who intend taking up the work this
season, and hope those who have raised
silk in the past will continue to do so in the
future, as their past experience will help
them to add much to the quality of the
cocoons they raise this year. We also ad-
vise those engaging in this work to use the
pamphlet of instruction issued by the Com-
mission, as many failures in the past have
been due to the use of other books. We
must remember that this high and dry
climate is very different to most silk pro-
ducing countries; this is one reason why
we have so much better results when we
understand how to take advantage of these
conditions.
	We are pleased to inform the public that
an effort is being made in Congress to
assist those who are interested in this
work, also that a line of scientific experi-
mental work will be taken up this year at
the Experimental Station in Logan, which
not only shows the growing interest in silk
culture, but will also give information we
greatly need.
	Many have no doubt read with interest
the letters coming from the silk raising
districts of China during the past winter,
and if the production of this valuable fiber
can in that country produce a city of
millionaires, its production will no doubt
add much to the wealth of the agriculturists
of this country, as soon as it is thoroughly
understood and trees planted in numbers
sufficient so that the production need not
be limited for want of food for the worms.
	Address all letters to the secretary, Room
502 City and County Building, Salt Lake
City, Utah, and state the number of per-
sons who can give their time when needed
and the number and age of trees from
which leaves can be secured. Do not leave
writing until late in the season. The silk
worm eggs and books of instruction, as
well as any information, will be furnished
to those desiring the same absolutely free
of charge by the commission.
			MARGARET A. CAINE,
	Secretary Utah Silk Commission.


SIXTH WARD CELEBRATION.
	Exercises were held in the Sixth Ward
assembly rooms, Monday, March 17, in
commemoration of the organization of the
Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph
Smith, March 17, 1842.
	President Isabella West presided assisted
by her counselors, Ellen B. Watson and
Alice Butterworth. On the stand were
Bishop James C. Watson, Counselor Alex-
ander Burt, Patriarch Jesse West, Elders
Arnold Giauque, of the Y. M. M. I. A.,
Albert Re[-]ser, Brothers James Latham,
Thomas Winter, Henry Pugh; Sisters
Louisa Green, Jane Powel, Margaret Lath-
am, Caroline Fullmer and Mary A. Rush-
ton.
	The singing was led by Brother James
Poulton Sen., organists, Louisa Giauque and
Jane Poulton.
	Opened by singing, “We thank Thee,


[Column 1]
O God, for a prophet.” Prayer by Bishop
James C. Watson. Singing, “How firm a
foundation.”
	President West in her opening address
extended a warm welcome to those present.
Spoke of the growth of the good work of
the society. Our Heavenly Father blesses
us in our labors. Spoke of the magnitude
of the work of the society which is ever
alert to care for the sick and needy. Her
earnest desire was for the welfare of the
society. All married women who are
Latter-day Saints should be members of
the Relief Society. The Prophet Joseph
Smith was impressed to organize this
society for a benefit and blessing to us. If
we live up to our privileges we shall gain
an exaltation in the kingdom of our
Heavenly Father.
	A brief sketch of the Relief Society from
its first organization up to the present time
was read by Secretary E. Condie. Song,
“The Holy City,” by Mamie Evans. Organ
solo, Louisa Giaque.
	Counselor Ellen R. Watson knew Joseph
Smith was a prophet of the Lord, he was
inspired when he organized the Relief
Society. Was pleased to be connected with
her sisters in this grand and noble work.
Those who have large families have many
home duties to perform, but there are
but few who could not find time to attend
their meetings and attend to spiritual
duties. In the faithful discharge of them
we gain a blessing. Said let us assist the
needy and encourage those who are weak
in the faith. Referred to the ten cent fund
to assist the sisters in their traveling ex-
penses.
	Counselor Alice Butterworth said the
Prophet Joseph turned the key when he
organized the Relief Society for the benefif
of the poor, the sick and afflicted. Spoke
of the noble women with whom she was
and had been acquainted, was pleased to 
have such an honor. Such were President
Eliza R. Snow Smith, Zina D. H. Young,
Bathsheba W. Smith and Sister Emmeline
B. Wells, faithful, energetic workers in the
kingdom of our Heavenly Father, giving
their kind counsels and instructions to the
sisters “Theirs is a noble work, they are
laying up treasures in heaven.” Spoke
earnestly to the sisters who were not en-
rolled as members to become so. They
could form no idea of the unity and love
we sisters have for each other. We enjoy
the Spirit of the Lord by doing good in
this noble work, which will never end un-
til our Savior comes to reign on the earth.
	Bishop James C. Watson said we have
not only met as a Relief Society anniver-
sary, but as a reunion of the ward. Ap-
proved of the sketch read by the secretary.
Many reflections were brought to his mind.
Referred to the magnitude of this Latter-
day work. The divinity of the Prophet
Joseph Smith, the inspiration he received
from God the Eternal Father to inspire him
to organize the Relief Society, also in
electing those sisters in their various
offices. Spoke of the unity of the sisters in
this society with the Bishopric, the noble
work they had done and were doing. Re-
ferred to the good instruction given by
Apostle Anthon Lund during conference,
on being kind to the young people, not
using harshness, but use kindness, patience
and forbearance to the wayward ones. 
Counseled the sisters to be charitable to
each other, seek after those who are not so
strong in the faith, encourage them to be

[Column 2]
one with you. Thanked his Heavenly
Father for His many, blessings to him in
restoring him in health and strength thus
far.
	Singing, “Praise to the man who com-
muned with Jehovah.”
	Patriarch Jesse West referred to the
grand and marvelous work performed by
the Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother
Hyrum, the kind, sympathetic disposition of
the latter. Related an instance of his
pleading with the Prophet in regard to an
erring brother. Felt to bless the Relief
Society in the name of the Lord. Spoke of
the sayings of Paul. Felt to honor and
love President Joseph F. Smith and
Patriarch John Smith, for they were lineal
descendants of the Prophet Joseph and his
brother, Hyrum Smith.
	Elder Giauque realized the importance
of the work devolving upon the Relief
Society. There is much to be considered;
the power they can exercise at home is
great, they should be in unity with their
husbands, should put aside selfishness and
give aid to those who are in need. These
sisters can do more than the brethren, they
know better the wants of the sisters. Their
sympathy and kind acts can relieve those
who are bowed down or sick. Said all
young married women should be members
of the Relief Society, they need counsel
and instruction from those who have had
experience. Spoke of the divine mission
of the Prophet Joseph Smith, also of the
first organization of the Relief Society, it
being the only one organized in that way.
Spoke of the auxiliaries which were organ-
zed, such as the Mutual and Primary,
which are the first. In the Primary the
little tots are taught in a simple way the
principles of truth. These were organized
by the Presidency or with their sanction,
and are just as essential in their proper
order. But the Relief Society is of a differ-
ent character. It gives a wide scope for
thought and action. Spoke of the unity
and love that should exist in the home
circle, children were much better trained
when parents were united and often follow
in the footsteps of their parents.
	Sister Powel had been in the Church
many years, gave her experience and also
bore a faithful testimony to the truth of the
Gospel, said she had been connected with
this society twenty years. Many do not
realize the importance of the work to be
done in this society. Spoke of the redemp-
tion for the dead, what a blessed thing that
the Lord has opened a way for those who
did not hear and obey the Gospel here, and
have passed behind the veil.
	Brother Winter felt blest in being located
with the Saints of God in these valleys.
Bore a powerful testimony to the healing
power through the servants of God in his
behalf. Bore testimony that President
Brigham Young was a servant of God.
Even the Gentiles acknowledge him to be
a great man, spoke of his power as a leader
and how through his influence the Lord
made the sterile valleys to blossom as the
rose.
	Brother James Latham spoke of the
Relief Society as a different organization to
any other. It opened up a wide channel
to extend sympathy, charity, counsel and
instruction to the sisters. It was organized
by revelation through the Prophet Joseph
Smith, and is throughout the world where
our people are. It has attracted the notice
of many in the world, and many other

[Column 3]
organizations pattern after it. He had
been connected with the ward for forty-two
years, was acquainted with President West,
Counselor Alice Butterworth and Sister
Rushton, all were untiring in their efforts
for good and had performed a noble part.
	Brother Pugh thought the Prophet
Joseph did not foresee the magnitude of this
great work when he organized the Relief
Society, for it has grown to a marvelous
extent. The sisters have done a noble
work. Spoke of the integrity of Counselor
Ellen R. Watson to the Gospel, rejoiced in
hearing her strong testimony to the truth
of the Gospel. He had been acquainted with
her from her girlhood.
	Sister Rushton bore a strong testimony
to the truth. She was personally acquainted
with the Prophet Joseph Smith in Nauvoo,
underwent many trials and tribulations in
connection with her husband and the
Saints, being driven and threatened to be
shot by the mob. Shared both joy and sor-
row with the Saints at that time. When
she reflected on these things her heart was
too full to say more.
	Brother Poulton bore testimony to the
divinity of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Was
proud to be connected with such noble
women as President West, Counselor But-
terworth and Sister Rushton, had known
them since the year 1864. Their deeds of
kindness would never be forgotten, they
were noble women working for the interest
of their sisters, ever cheerful in the dis-
charge of their duties, willing to respond
to the calls made on them night or day to
alleviate suffering. Joseph Smith was a
prophet of the Lord, revered his memory.
Honored the sisters in their various call-
ings.
	President Albert Reiser, of the Y. M. M.
I. A., spoke briefly on the first organization
of the Relief Society by the Prophet, also
the name desired by him for that society,
he desiring it to be called a Benevolent
Association, it being overruled, however,
by the sisters. Emma Smith as president
giving her hearty approval, it was known
at that time as the Female Relief Society,
the Prophet kindly giving way to the
sisters in this. Today there are many
societies in the world who are patterning
after us. The organization known as the
National Council of Women, to which our
Relief Society is connected, has many
noble women as members who are alleviat-
ing the sufferings of many, lightening the
labor of many young boys and girls who
have to toil hard in workshops, trying
to ring about a better condition of things
in the world. But the Relief Society was
organized by divine revelation, and those
connected with it are seeking through their
faithfulness to be a power for good among
their sisters. Emma Smith was elected by
revelation some twelve years previous to
the time of the organization, “to expound
the scriptures.” When Emma was elected
president, the Prophet said, “Now is the
revelation fulfilled.”
	Counselor Burt endorsed the sentiments
of the former speakers, spoke on the law of
obedience to the Priesthood of God, the
observance of his laws, also the divinity of
the Prophet Joseph and the noble work the
sisters of the Relief Society had done and
are doing.
	Sister Latham bore a strong testimony
to the truth of the Gospel, Had been con-
nected with the Relief Society many years.
She was pleased to have our Bishop with


us, also the other brethren, had enjoyed
the instruction given to us by them.
	Sister Green felt proud to be connected
to the Relief Society, many of the poor had
been benefited and a good work had been
done. Said it is a work of love, a grand
and glorious work. “I love it and if my
sisters would come out and join us they
would enjoy themselves, we can all find
time for pleasure, we can find time to
attend these meetings and thus gain a
blessing.”
	Singing, “Our God we raise to Thee.”
Benediction by Brother Thomas Green.
	A sumptuous dinner had been previously
prepared. The committee on arrangements
for dinner were Thomas Green and the
young ladies of the Mutual Improvement
Association. The young ladies deserve
great praise, for their bright smiles and
sweet faces added much to the enjoyment
of the evening.
	Later in the evening the following pro-
gram was rendered: Recitation, V.
Pardue. Comic songs, David Fullmer.
Recitation, Sybil Wetzel. Song, William
Pardue. Male quartette. Song, Mamie
Evans. Comic songs by Lillie Hunter and
George Campbell. Selection, graphophone,
Albert Schoenfeld. Remarks by the Bishop.
	The evening’s amusements ended in a
social dance.
		ELIZABETH W. CONDIE, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
BENSON STAKE.
	The first Relief Society conference of
the Benson Stake of Zion was held in the
beautiful Relief Society building of Lewis-
ton, January 11, 1902.
	After the usual opening exercises Presi-
dent Rebecca Rawlins extended a greeting
of welcome to all. Reports from the various
wards were given, showing them to be in a
good condition.
	Among the speakers of the forenoon
were President Lucy Cardon, of Cache
Stake, Counselor Annie T. Hyde of Salt
Lake City, and Bishop William Waddoups.
	The main topics treated upon by Sister
Hyde was the value of the association and
the means for making the meetings inter-
esting and instructive in temporal as well
as spiritual things.
	Brother Waddoups spoke of the necessity
of training and leading our children in the
path of duty.
	Meeting was adjourned until two o’clock
and during the intermission a delicious
luncheon was served to all present and a
very enjoyable time was spent.
	Meeting convened again at two o’clock.
The principal speakers at this session were
Sisters Done, Lucy Cardon, Annie T.
Hyde, Maud Roskelly, also Presidents
Alma Merrill and Brigham Hendricks.
	Sister Done spoke of the greatness of the
association and of the necessity of women
being on an equality with their husbands in
all that is noble.
	The remarks of Sister Hyde were mainly
in regard to the Word of Wisdom and
tithing, and of the designs of the Lord in
the bringing of His people to these
valleys.
	Sister Cardon spoke of the great good
which could be accomplished among the
poor and the sick.
	The remarks of Sister Roskelly were
mainly instructions to the secretaries.
	Presidents Merrill and Hendricks spoke

[Column 2]
of the importance of fulfilling all the re-
quirements made of us by the Gospel.
	MARIA HUTTLEBALLE, Cor. Sec.
NEBO STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of the Nebo Stake of Zion met in
the Tabernacle at ten a. m., February 14,
1902.
	President Lillie C. Page presided and the
meeting opened by singing the hymn,
“Come, come ye Saints.” Prayer by
Brother Thomas Daniels. Singing, “Our
God we raise to Thee.” Minutes read and
with one correction made accepted.
	President Lillie C. Page spoke of the
meeting to be held on the 17th of March
and urged all to make it a day of enjoy-
ment and profit.
	A report from the president of each ward
was called for, and each responded with
a very good showing, both spiritually and
financially. Conference then adjourned,
after singing “Now let us rejoice,” till two
p. m. Prayer by Brother David Lant.
	At two p. m. conference reassembled.
Singing, “How firm a foundation.”
Prayer by Bishop J. S. Taylor. Singing,
“Come let us anew.”
	Sister Price, of Goshen, spoke on the
subject of motherhood. She said in part:
“We should ask the Lord to help rear our
children in the fear of the Lord, and ever
keep a watchful care over them. Set good
examples and see that the children follow
them, be careful about the associates they
keep and they will never go astray.”
	Sister Pierce, of Salem, said she felt
weak and timid, but greatly blessed to be
with the sisters today. We cannot begin
too early to teach our children to be kind
and thoughtful of the elderly people.
Parents should interest their children at
home every evening by good books or by
any instructive means.”
	Miss Stella McClellan then favored the
audience with the song, “Tell Me,” which
she sang beautifully.
	Sister Mary A. Hallam, of Spanish Fork
Third Ward, also spoke on the subject of
motherhood. She said: “Every sister is
willing to become a wife, but many refuse
the holy condition of motherhood. If we
live rightly, according to our Father’s
word, we will not hesitate to have families
and by having the spirit of the Gospel we
will instruct them in it. Be your childrens’
best friend, get their confidence and they
will love and honor you all the days of
your life.”
	Counselor E. J. Dixon felt greatly bene-
fited by what had been said and urged the
sisters to donate to the Woman’s Building.
	President J. S. Page said he had enjoyed
the conference, and answered some ques-
tions referring to the duties of the sisters.
	Conference adjourned. Singing, “Praise
God from whom all blessings flow.”
Benediction by Brother Smith.
			MARY F. BROWN, Sec.
DAVIS STAKE.
	Minutes of the Davis Stake Relief Soci-
ety conference, held at East Bountiful,
January 30, 1902, President Susan Grant
presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing, “Now let us
rejoice.” Prayer by Patriarch Judson
Tolman. Singing, “Earth with her ten
thousand flowers.” Minutes of previous
morning session were read and approved;
the annual report was also read and
accepted.

[Column 3]
	President Susan Grant was pleased to see
so many here. “We have so many things 
to be thankful for, and I hope we will all
live in a way that the Lord will continue
to bless us. Dear sisters encourage singing
among your children, for the Lord has said
the songs of the heart are prayers unto
Him. The Spirit of the Lord is with us,
today and we will have a good time May
we have the Spirit to be with us at all
times.”
	Sister Julia Farnsworth said, “I feel at
home when we have the Gospel. We all
have the same great aim in view and are
united. I think the work of the Relief
Society is the grandest in the world. The
women of the world did not make much
progress in their societies until Joseph
Smith organized this one. It makes us
better women when we take an interest in
this work. We are more humble and more
united with our husbands. Show me a
home where the father and mother are
united, and I will show you a home that is
attractive to the children.” Spoke of the
great mission of George Washington, he
truly earned the title of Father of his
Country. Teach your children to be loyal
and patriotic citizens.
	President Mary A. Page reported the
South Bountiful Society “We have a
good band of sisters. Our teachers make
their visits once a month and are trying to:
do what good they can. I pray the bless-
of the Lord to be with us.”
	Counselor Mary S. Clark: “I am pleased
to meet with you again. It is necessary
for us to meet together once in a while to
be spiritually fed, that we may be able to
overcome the temptations we meet with.
Teach your children the principles of the.
Gospel and of the beautiful character o
the Prophet Joseph Let us have charity
for those who do not belong to our Church,
set them an example at all times and try to
draw them into the fold. We should all
try to govern our tongues and be not the
first to speak of the faults we see in our
bre[-]hren and sisters May the Lord bless
us all.”
	Counselor Jane Holt: “I am happy in-
deed to meet with you all once more.I
feel thankful that we have been permitted
to come forth in this dispensation to help
in this great work. Remember the Lord,
and call on Him often for His Spirit to be
with us in teaching our children. So much
of this depends upon the mothers and they
need all the assistance they can get. The
object of every Latter-day Saint is to serve
the Lord and keep His commandments. I
ask the Lord to bless us with His Spirit at
all times.”
	President Jane Pack reported the society
of the West Bountiful Ward. We have
good sisters and enjoy the Spirit of the
Lord in our meetings. We are all trying
to do what good we can.”
	Centerville was reported by President
Elzina Tingey. “Our sisters are united
and are doing the best they can in taking
care of the poor. May we all have the
Spirit of the Lord to be with us.”
	President Nancy Willey reported the
East Bountiful society: “We have a large
society and our meetings are usually well
attended. Our teachers are united and
trying to do their duty. May the bless-
ings of the Lord be with us.”
	Conference adjourned until two o’clock.
Singing, “Our God we raise to Thee.”
Prayer by Brother D. O. Willey.
	Afternoon session commenced by sing-


[Column 1]
ing, “Come, come ye Saints.” Prayer by
Counselor Henry Rampton. Singing,
“Softly beams the sacred dawning.” Roll
called and minutes of previous morning
session of conference read and approved.
	President Susan Grant then read an
article from the EXPONENT and presented
the names of the general officers. She also
encouraged the sisters to support the
EXPONENT, it is our paper and our duty to
keep it up.
	Counselor Hyrum Grant: “I am very
glad to have the privilege of bearing my
testimony before the sisters There are
many gifts given to the children of God,
one of the greatest is to know this is the
Church and Kingdom of God. In looking
over the reports of what has been done for
the poor, I find that the Relief Society has
been a great help, and I know the people
have been blessed in paying their dona-
tions.
	Farmington society was reported by
President Helen Miller: “Our society is
in a very good condition and all are trying
to do what good they can. I pray the
Lord to bless us all.”
	Sister Julia Farnsworth: “I have been
pleased with all that has been done here to
day, especially the reports of what has
been done for the poor. Money is given
to us as a blessing. If we hoard it up we
lose the blessing, while if we are liberal and
generous with the poor we make many
homes happy and our blessings are multi-
plied.” She then related a very remarka-
able instance of how medical skill failed to
restore a child’s sight, but when the
Priesthood was called in and faith was
exercised the child began to improve.
	Counselor Joseph Clark: “I realize in
looking over this congregation you are
the ones who support the Relief Society. I
know in every ward there are a certain few
who are always at their post and can be
depended upon. It costs quite an effort to
live the life of a Saint, we have to make a
good many little sacrifices, but it is these
sacrifices that make us strong in the faith.
pray the Lord to bless us all.”
	South Hooper society reported by Presi-
dent Alice King: “We are all trying to do
the best we can and take care of the poor.
	President Emma Corbridge represented
the West Layton society: “Our society is
small and very scattered, the sisters are
united and doing the best they can. The
Spirit of the Lord meets with us and we
have good meetings. I ask the Lord to
bless us all”
	President Susan Grant: “I have been
pleased and feel to endorse all that has been
said. We must strive at all times to have
the Spirit of the Lord with us to help raise
our children in a pleasing manner before
Him. Seek wisdom in all things, this is
one of the greatest gifts. Let us never be
guilty of uttering one word against the
Lord’s anointed, always look for the good
in our brethren and sisters and always be
ready to speak of their good qualities. My
desire is to do my duty and serve the Lord.
Our conference will be adjourned for three

[Column 2]
months, to be held at Centerville.”
	Counselor Hyrum Grant told the sisters
if they would teach their children the
principles of the Gospel, even though the
parents are not prominent in Church affairs,
they would be made prominent through
their children. Prayed God to bless us.
	Singing, “High on the mountain top.”
Benediction by President Amos Cook.
			ANNIE S. NEVILLE, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as 
	much a possible for you money.					TRY US.

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav- 
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.


[Column 1]
PROGRAM FOR U. S. D. R. 1902 AND 1903
	April 16—Mrs. Elizabeth Titcomb, events
of 1775, and 1776. 1. Brief review of
events at Lexington, Concord, Ticonder-
oga, Crown Point, Bunker Hill and in-
vasion of Canada. 2. Second meeting of
the Continental Congress. 1776—3. The
siege of Boston. The attack at Charleston.
5. Meeting of Continental Congress, May
10. 6. The New York campaign.
	May 16.—Report of regents and dele-
gates to annual meeting G. S. D. R.
	Sep. 16.—Events of 1778-79, Mrs. S. F.
Smith. 1. The adoption of the “Stars and
Stripes,” June 14. 2 Burgoyne’s in
vasion: a British troops at Quebec; b Bur-
goyne’s advance; c Hubbardton, Fort
Edward, Bennington and Bemis heights;
d Stillwater, or Saratoga, Sep. 19; e Second
battle of Bemis Heights; f The surrender
of Burgoyne.
	Sep. 16.—Events of 1777 Mrs. Isabel M.
Sears. 1. The Alliance of France. 2. Pro-
posals of peace made by England. 3 Bat-
tle of Monmouth. 4. Attack of Newport.
5. French fleet sail to West Indies. 6. Eng-
lish occupy Savannah. 8. Massacre of
Wyoming and Cherry Valleys. 1799—80.
British capture Augusta. 9. Siege of
Savannah. 10. Recapture of Stony Point.
11. Paul Jones and the United States
navy.
	Oct. 16.—Events of 1780-81, Mrs. C. Y.
Cannon. 1 Siege of Charleston. 2. Bat-
tle of Camden. 3 Exploits of Marion,
Sumpter, Lee and Pickens. 4. Battle of
King’s Mountain. 5. Treason of Arnold.
1781.—6. Battle of Cowpens. 7 Green’s
retreat through the Carolinas. 8. Battle
of Guilford Courthouse. 9. Siege of York-
town. 10. Close of war.
	Nov. Thanksgiving Day, Mrs. E B.
Wells. 1. Origin of Thanksgiving. 2.
First Thanksgiving in New England.
3. Record of official appointment of days of
Thanksgiving in Massachusetts Bay and
Plymouth. 4. Occasional Thanksgivings
appointed by Dutch governors in New
Netherlands. 5. Thanksgiving a national
day during the revolution. 6. When rec-
omended by Congress. 7. Thanksgiving
for peace in 1784. 8. How celebrated in
New England.
	Dec.—Reminiscences by Mrs. Dougall
of James Otis, John Adams, John Han-
cock, Samuel Adams, Paul Revere, Patrick
Henry, Benjamin Franklin, Peyton Ran-
dolph, Robert Morris, Thomas Jefferson,
Silas Deane, Alexander Hamilton, James
Madison and Thomas Paine.
	Jan.—Some noted Englishmen, Myra Y.

[Column 2]
Rossiter: Preston Gage, Pitcairn, Howe,
Clinton, Burgoyne, Guy, Carlton, Prescott,
Cornwallis, Governors Dunmore and
Tyron.
	Feb.—George Washington, Mrs. P. T.
Farnsworth. 1. His family; early man-
hood; love and marriage. 2. Taking com-
mand; starting the government. 3. As a
party man; his nationality. 4. His closing
years.


TOOELE CELEBRATION.
	The Tooele Relief Society celebrated the
sixtieth anniversary of the organization of
the Society with two very interesting and
well attended meetings, the meeting house
being tastefully decorated with bunting,
etc. Space will not allow for the publica-
tion of the two pleasing and instructive
programs, but it is safe to say all felt re-
paid for having come out to hear them.
	At night a dance was given in the Social
Hall by the sisters, and thus ended a day
long to be remembered by the residents of
Tooele.
		LILLIAN GILLESPIE, Sec.


A PLEASANT TIME.
	The sixtieth anniversary of the organ-
ization of the Relief Society was celebrated
by the Hooper Ward. The Bishop was
present and a fine program was rendered.
	Adeline Belnap told some pleasing inci-
dents in the life of the Prophet, that had
transpired when she was a child. An essay
on the organization of the Relief Society in
1842, its acheivements and progress, was
read. The choir furnished some fine selec-
tions, and songs, speeches and recitations
were rendered. A dinner was served by
the sisters and a dance, in which many old
people participated. We had a day of en-
joyment long to be remembered.
	CATHARINE NAISBITT, Sec.


Under instructions from President Roose-
velt, a general order in the interests of
social purity has just been issued from the
War Department to all our officers and
soldiers, “especially those serving in the
tropics and away from home.” The com-
mon sense and practical sagacity of its rec-
ommendations will be recognized by all
persons of experience. From Maine to
California women and good men will
be grateful to the President for this action.


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation

Vol. 30	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY, 1902	No. 13


CONTENTS.

An Appeal.......................Peace Committee	97
General Instructions.........	“		“	97
Letter From St. George..Ann C. Woodbury	98
The Seven Rules of Harmony.....................	99
Miss Anthony In Philadelphia....................	99
Heritage......................................................	99
Letter......................................Clara Barton	100
Silk Culture...................Margaret A. Caine	102
Letter From Brooklyn............Belle Shaffer	102
in Memoriam..............................................	103
A Faithful Sister Gone..............Eliza Cook	103
Reunion...................................Sarah Webb	103
Kansas City Conference.....L. J. McCarthy	104
Kansas City Mission...............M. Atkinson	104

EDITORIAL—Relief Society Pamphlet....	100
	Working for Peace..............................	100
	Miss Hunt’s Visit................................	101
	Entertainment at Bee Hive.................	101
	A Social Afternoon.............................	101

Recessional......................Rudyard Kipling	99
	Courage.........................Celia Thaxter	97
	Whittier’s Poem on Peace..................	99


RECESSIONAL.

RUDYARD KIPLING.

God of our fathers, known of old—
	Lord of our far-flung battle line—
Beneath whose awful hand we hold
	Dominion over palm and pine—
Lord God of Hosts, be with us yet.
	Lest we forget—lest we forget!

The tumult and the shouting dies—
	The Captains and the Kings depart—
Still stands Thine ancient sacrifice,
	An humble and a contrite heart.
Lord God of Hosts be with us yet, 
	Lest we forget—lest we forget!

Far-called, our navies melt away—
	On dune and headland sinks the fire—
Lo, all our pomp of yesterday
	Is one with Nineveh and Tyre!
Judge of the Nations spare us yet,
	Lest we forget—lest we forget!

If drunk with sight of power, we lose
	Wild tongues that have not Thee in awe—
Such boastings as the Gentiles use.
	Or lesser breeds without the law—
Lord God of Hosts be with us yet.
	Lest we forget—lest we forget!

For heathen heart that puts her trust
	in reeking tube and iron shard—
All valiant dust that builds on dust,
	And guarding, calls not Thee to guard;
For frantic boast and foolish word,
Thy mercy on Thy people, Lord !
		Amen,


[Column 1]
AN APPEAL

TO THE CITIZENS OF UTAH.
	Certain economic, moral and ethical con-
ditions which have arisen out of the ruins
of war and bloodshed are engaging the
serious thought of the noble band of men
and women who are seeking to promote
mental and spiritual growth among all
nations, tongues and peoples.
	The present agitation and wide spread
discussion of the subjects of “Peace” and
“International Arbitration” and “Gradual
Disarmament” has been brought about by
the almost universal manifestation of moral
and mental enlightenment, which is des-
cending upon the world at the dawn of this
most auspicious period of time, the
Twentieth Century.
	The call made by the Czar of Russia for
the International Peace Conference at the
league brought the subject of Peace and

[Column 2]
Arbitration before the civilized nations of
the world.
	Among the women this awakened senti-
ment which favors peace and good will to-
ward man, found expression in a “Univer-
sal Peace Demonstration,” which was held
in eighteen countries, May 18, 1899, the
evening preceding “The Hague Con-
ference.”
	The demonstration was undertaken by
an international committee of women. The
national councils and local councils were
authorized to make arrangements for such
meeting and it is to the credit of the
women of our nation that with less than a
month’s notice there were held within
twenty-one different states 163 meetings
attended by 73,961 women.
	Under the able leaders among women,
Emmeline B. Wells and Elmina S. Taylor,
Utah gave an enthusiastic demonstration
in favor of peace and arbitration. Mrs.
Wells sent a cablegram to headquarters at
The Hague telling the good results in
our State and received a grateful reply.
	On May 15, 1901, simultaneously with
the opening of the Court of International
Arbitration, another demonstration was
made, showing that women’s zeal for
peace instead of being cooled by wars is
excited to greater ardor.
	Again the councils of women over the
entire world are urged by the president,
Mrs. May Wright Sewall, to organize
another Demonstration to be held the,
coming May 15, 1902.
	The State Committee, representing the
appointments made by the National
Woman’s Relief Society, Bathsheba W.
Smith President, and the National Y. L.
N. M. I. A., Elmina S. Taylor President,
join with leading women of this communi-
ty in an appeal to the people of this State
to lend their aid to this cause, that this
question of arbitration and peace, and the
sentiment of the Universal Brothetbood of
man may be borne to every soul in our
midst.
	The subject of peace and arbitration
deals with such state and financial questions
as material losses and cost of war, and dis-
cussions should follow along these lines.
	Moral deterioration is also incident to
war and this phase should also be brought
to the public mind. Any cause which would
tend to weaken the race physically must
involve the spiritual well being of a nation.
Thus each phase of war presents a religious
aspect and a realization of this impels us to
particularly request the entire band of
ministers and clergymen and Sabbath
School officers to unite with us in this
work, not only by attending and taking
part in the programs given at the demon-
strations on May 15, but to also discuss
subjects bearing on this question in all
Church gatherings on May 11, the Sabbath
day preceding the demonstration. We
earnestly appeal to all teachers, principals,
superintendents of public and private
schools to devote “morning talks” and
chapel exercises on the morning of May 15,
to subjects in relation to Universal Peace.
Presidents of Primary Associations might

[Column 3]
also give suitable talks at the regular
meeting preceding May 15.
	We appeal to the club women to assist
us by taking active part in the demonstra-
tion effort, to stimulate the desire for peace
and to concentrate public attention upon
those ideals of loving brotherhood.
	Speed the day when “Nation shall not
lift up sword against nation, neither shall
they learn war any more,” but “they shall
beat their swords into plough shares and
their spears into pruning hooks.” Then
shall we approach more nearly to the real-
ization of the “Peace of God which passeth
all understanding.”
	Signatures—Bathsheba W. Smith, El-
mina S. Taylor, Ann M. Cannon, Julia
P. M. Farnsworth, Clarissa S. Williams,
Maria Y. Dougall, Lizbeth Qualtrough,
Emma J. McVicker. Lucretia H. Kimball
Bertha G. Bamberger, Isabel M. W. Sears,
Josephine Spencer, Mary A. H. Cannon,
Virginia Snow Stephen, Elizabeth Cart-
wright, Katie B. Y. Kraft, May Wells
Whitney, Mary F. Young, Dessie W.
Grant, Clara Holbrook, Inez Knight,
Lillian Horne, Alice Richards, Rebecca E.
Little, Janie M. Kingsbury, Edna M.
Ridges, Lucile Jennings, Alice Isley.
	Annie Taylor Hyde, member of the
International Peace Committee. Alice Mer-
rill Horne and Christine Smoot Taylor
members cf the National Council Peace
Committee and Chairmen of the State Peace
Demonstration of Utah.

TO BE READ AND VOTED AT MEETINGS IN THE UNITED
STATES ON MAY 15, I902, IN SYMPATHY WITH THE
UNIVERSAL DEMONSTRATION OF WOMEN IN BE-
HALF OF PEACE AND ARBITRATION.

	Resolved, That American women assem-
ble on May 15, 1902, for the purpose of
considering the fruits of war and the fruits
of peace, and hold a demonstration in
behalf of peace and arbitration. They
commit themselves to adopting as their
own that ideal of loving brotherhood,
which can be realized only by the cessation
of international hostilities. They repudiate
war as a means of settling international
difficulties, as they repudiate the duel as a
means of settling personal animosities.
They accept as a corollary of the universal,
fatherhood of God the universal brother-
hood of man.
	They send greeting to women of other
countries who this day may be assembled
to attest similar convictions. They rejoice
that women throughout the world are be-
ginning to feel their responsibility for
human conditions outside of the home as
well as within its sacred walls. They ask
all women everywhere to adopt as their
own the task assumed by the International
Council of Women, which is “the applica-
tion of the Golden Rule to society, custom
and law.”


GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS ON PEACE
DEMONSTRATION MEETINGS.
	The General Committee appointed to
take charge of the Peace meetings to be 
held continuously on May 15, 1902, feel
it a duty to outline a plan for the ladies


[Column 1]
who are too far from headquarters to get
verbal advice on these matters; and there-
fore present the following suggestions as a
guide to assist in making a conformity in
the gatherings throughout the State.
	Each president of the Relief Society and
each president of the Y. L. N. M. I. A. is
hereby appointed Chairman to organize a
Committee and hold a Peace Demonstration
in a suitable place, hall or house.
	If two or more wards desire to unite no
objection will be raised. The State Com-
mittee would be deeply gratified, however,
if a gathering be held in each ward.
	The Presidents of the Relief Society Stake
organizations and of the Y. L. N. M. I.
Stake Associations are considered members
of the State Committee and will be ex-
pected to use their influence and lend their
assistance to promote the interests of the
movement. 
	It is further suggested that in naming
committees, it would be desirable to con-
sider women of different religious beliefs
and invite them to take part and unite in the
demonstrations.
	The record of each meeting should be
made and forwarded to the Chairman of
the State Committee, Mrs. Alice Merrill
Horne, Care EXPONENT Office, Salt Lake
City, Utah.
	The Record should contain certain items
of information:
	1st.—Place of meeting.
	2nd.—Number of persons present.
	3rd.—Number of speakers.
	4th.—Names of speakers.
	5th—General tone of meeting.
	6th.—Statement whether Resolutions
were adopted or not.
	7th.—Degree in which the clergy in
your locality responded to invitation to
prepare the public mind for the demon-
stration.
	The Committee on Program suggest the
following subjects as suitable for papers or
addresses: Purpose of the Peace Demon-
stration, what it may accomplish. The
Hague Conference. Fatherhood of God
and Brotherhood of Man. Moral Deter-
ioration Incident to War. The Spiritual
Aspect of War. Peace poems and songs to
be interspersed.
	For schools eighth grade pupils might
write papers on any one of the subjects
given. Lower grades give Peace poems
and songs.
	The Committee on Decoration and
Sentiments have not completed their report
in reference to decorating but will report
later, however they have made a careful
selection of Peace sentiments which are
given here:
	“The pen is mightier than the sword.”
	Take away the sword! States can be
saved without it.—Richelieu.
	Peace hath her victories,
	No less renowned than war.—Milton.
	Where discord roars, Peace shall the
tumult still.—J. Dunbar Hylton.
	A happier gift than heaven’s own fire
	Is heaven’s sweet gift of peace.—Arthur
	J. Lochport.
	Loyalty, Peace and Arbitration.
	“A time will come when the science of
destruction will bend before the arts of
peace.”
	“How lovely are the messengers that
preach us the Gospel of Peace.”
	“Glory to God in the highest, and on
earth peace and goodwill to men.”

[Column 2]
	“Blessed are the peace makers, for they
shall be called the children of God.” 
	“For what does it profit a man to gain
the whole world and lose his own soul.”
	“Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thy-
self.
	“And He shall judge among the nations
and shall rebuke many people and they
shall beat their swords into ploughshares,
and their spears into pruning hooks;
nation shall not lift up sword against
nation, neither shall they learn war any
more.”
	“Provoke not your children to wrath.”
	“Stand therefore having your loins girt
about with truth, and having on the
breastplate of righteousness; and your feet
shod with the preparation of the Gospel of
Peace.”
	“And this I pray that your love may
abound yet more and more in knowledge
and in all judgment.”
	“The peace of God which passeth all
understanding, shall keep your hearts and
minds through Christ Jesus.”
	Respectfully Submitted
		EMMELINE B. WELLS,
		MARIA Y. DOUGALL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
LETTER FROM ST. GEORGE. 
	My counselors and myself, of the Relief
Society, Sisters Morris and Bleak, also
Sister Sarah J. Randall, of the Primary,
left St. George, Wednesday, March 19, and
held a Primary meeting in the evening in
Littlefield, Sister Hannah Averson presid-
ing.
	The 20th we traveled on down the Vir-
gen River. The people are making homes
along the river, settling in little patches.
We took dinner with Sister Bodilla M.
Johnson at her home a few miles above
Mosquito Flat, then went on to the town
Mosquit and held a Primary meeting. We
stayed over night at Counselor James
Hughes’ home who made us welcome. At
ten o’clock on the morning of the 21st we
met with the Relief Society and a number
of brethren met with us. We urged the
sisters to live their religion, store grain,
take care of the sick and afflicted, provide
for the poor and needy and comfort the
hearts of those that are called upon
to mourn, to teach the children to pray
from infancy, and they will arise and call
them blessed.
	We went on to Bunkerville and at two
o’clock met with the Relief Society and
celebrated the anniversary of the first
organization. It had not been convenient
to hold a meeting on the 17th, owing to
the people attending the quarterly confer-
ence at St. George. Bishop Bunker,
Counselor Abbott and a number of other
brethren met with us, we truly had a time
of rejoicing. Here seems to be the head-
quarters for raising seedless grapes.
Bishop Edward Bunker is very energetic
and is determined to make it a success. I
trust they will have a packing house in the
near future. We held a Primary meeting
at 5 o’clock, Sister Harriet Earl presiding,
and had a nice time, The children are
very bright.
	March 22 we went on to Overton and
held an evening meeting with the Relief
Society. Bishop John Bunker and ex-
Bishop Jones met with us. We feel very
grateful and encouraged when the breth-
ren meet with us and give us words of
welcome. We rojoiced to mingle our
voices with the Saints.

[Column 2]
	Sunday 23 we had the privilege of talk-
ing to the children of the Sabbath School.
In the afternoon some of the people of
St. Thomas came over and met with us.
We had a very nice meeting and a good
spirit prevailed. Sister Susan Johnson
kindly entertained us.
	We went on to St. Thomas and held an
evening meeting. We had a very enjoy-
able time. President Syphus regretted
that they had not had a Primary meeting.
We told them we could hold one in the
morning if the children would come at 8
o’clock. They said they would come out
any time, so they came at 8 o’clock and we
had a delightful meeting.
	We then traveled thirty-five miles up
the river to Bunkerville and had a lovely
meeting that evening. We rejoiced great-
ly at the good words that Bishop Edward
Bunker and Brother Myron Abbot gave us.
We were kindly entertained at Bishop
Edward Bunker's, and trust that [-]e may
live long upon the earth to do good.
	On the 25th we left the kind people of
this place and arrived at Littlefield, where
we stayed that night. This place is the
corner of Arizona, they have a rock school
house and it seems to be a good place to
make a living. There are many springs
about here and the good people that live
here raise very good fruit.
	On the 26th we left Littlefield for home,
There had been a good bit of snow depos-
ted in the mountains since we left home,
to the joy of the people.
	We arrived home safe that evening,
Brother William Miles having driven our
team and helped us entertain the people.
We were away eight days: held twelve
meetings and traveled one hundred and
ninety miles. I trust we have done some
good in the cause of truth. At our meet-
ing s we read the instructions from the
General Board of the Relief Society about
the 17th of March, and encouraged the
people to plant mulberry trees and work at
the silk industry.
		ANN C. WOODBURY


Miss Vida Goldstein of Australia, who
has been commissioned by the government
of Victoria to study American methods of
dealing with dependent and delinquent
children, lately spent a day in the Juvenile
Court of Philadelphia and another in that
of Chicago. She says that while the benev-
olent purpose of the Judge is evident, it
seems to her a great mistake to bring all
the children into court together, and to let
the younger ones be present while the
cases of boys and girls in their teens are
being tried. In her opinion the best system
yet devised for dealing with young culprits
is the Children’s Council of South Austra-
lia. The Council consists of six men and .
six women. It has jurisdiction over all
offences of young people under eighteen,
except murder or manslaughter. It meets
not in a courtroom but in its own office in
a building devoted exclusively to children’s
affairs. The children are brought in one
by one, and after the Council has con-
sidered each case and decided what is best 
to be done about it, the Judge makes the
order in accordance with the Council’s ad-
vice. In South Australia women have full
suffrage. Miss Goldstein says that in
those parts of Australia where women do
not vote, the methods of dealing with child
culprits are much less advanced.—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


COURAGE.
Because I hold it sinful to despond, 
	And will not let the bitterness of life,
Blind me but look beyond,
	Its tumult and its strife.

Because I lift my head above the mist,
	When the sun shines and the broad breezes
		blow,
By every ray and every raindrop kissed
	That God’s love doth bestow.—

Think you I find no bitterness at all? 
	No burden to be borne, like Christian’s pack? 
Think you there are no ready tears to fall 
	Because I keep them back?

Why should I hug life’s ills with cold reserve,
	To cure myself and all who love me? Nay!
A thousand times more good than I deserve,
	God gives me every day. 

And in each one of these rebellious tears
	Kept bravely back he makes a rainbow shine,
Grateful I take his slightest gift, no fears
	Nor doubts are mine. 

Dark clouds must clear, and when the clouds are
		past— 
	One golden day redeems a weary year,
Patient I listen, sure that sweet at last
	Will sound his voice of cheer.

Then vex me not with chiding. Let me be,
	I must be glad and faithful to the end.
I grudge you not your cold and darkness—me
	The powers of light befriend.
						CELIA THAXTER.


WHITTIER’S POEM ON PEACE.

Thank God for rest where none molest,
	And none can make afraid,—
For Peace that sits as Plenty’s guest 
	Beneath the homestead shade!

Bring pike and gun, the sword’s red scourge,
	The negro’s broken chains.
And beat them at the blacksmith’s forge
	To ploughshares for our plains.

Alike henceforth our hills of snow. 
	And vales where cotton flowers;
All streams that flow, all winds that blow,
	Are Freedom’s motive-powers.

Henceforth to Labor’s chivalry
	Be knightly honors paid;
For nobler than the sword’s shall be
	The sickle’s accolade. 

Build up an altar to the Lord,
	O grateful hearts of ours!
And shape it of the greenest sward 
	That ever drank the showers.

Lay all the bloom of gardens there, 
	And there the orchard fruits:
Bring golden grain from sun and air, 
	From earth her goodly roots.

There let our banners droop and flow,
	The stars uprise and fall;
Our roll of martyrs, sad and slow,
	Let sighing breezes call. 

Their names let hands of horn and tan,
	And rough shod feet applaud,
Who died to make the slave a man,
	And link with toil reward.

There let the common heart keep time
	To such an anthem sung
As never swelled on poet’s rhyme
	Or thrilled on singer’s tongue.

Song of our burden and relief,
	Of peace and long annoy;
The passions of our mighty grief
	And our exceeding joy!
		*	*	*
A song of faith that meets the end
	To match the good begun,
Nor doubts the power of love to blend
	The hearts of men as one!


“Resolved, That the Society of the
Daughters of the Revolution, Common-
wealth of Massachusetts, cordially indorses
the movement to rebuild the United States
frigate, Constitution, and that it is desirable
that individual members of the society
shall assist by all means in their power in
this great patriotic work.”


THE SEVEN RULES OF HARMONY.
	1. Make the sacred spirit of peace a
living power in your life, and contribute
all possible time, thought and money to its
diffusion.
	2. Never listen, without protest, to in-
sinuations, vituperations, or unjust accusa-
tions against the members of your family
and your fellow-citizens.
	3. Seek to understand the spirit of the
national laws, and to obey those which ex-
ist; and to interest yourself fervently for the
modification of all those which you con-
sider tyrannize uselessly over any class of
citizens.
	4 Dedicate your thought and use your
influence to develop the national and
patriotic spirit, and do not criticise without
purpose the administration of the family
and of the nation.
	5. Treat all birds and beasts and all ex-
istences of the animal and vegetable world,
with justness and gentleness. Do not de-
stroy save for self-preservation and for the
protection of the weak. Instead make it
your object to plant, to nourish and to
propogate all that will lead to the moral
and physical amelioration of the family, the
home and the nation.
	6. Teach your children and your de-
pendents what you may learn with regard
to justice and peace, and seek to develop in
them sentiments of harmony.
	7. Seek each day to utter some word,
or to perform some little action which may
promote the cause of peace, whether at
home or abroad.


MISS ANTHONY IN PHILADELPHIA.
	Fully recovered from her recent illness
Miss Susan B. Anthony enjoyed greeting
several hundred persons at a reception 
given her in Philadelphia last week by the
political science section of the New Century
Club.
	The following concerning Miss Anthony
in the Philadelphia Bulletin will be of
interest to her many friends:
	“I feel new made,” said Miss Anthony
when she was seen at the home of her
niece, Mrs. Helen Mosher James, 4716
Windsor Avenue.
	The hand that has so valiantly fought
for the ballot box and for rights equal to
those of men was very effeminately en-
gaged. Miss Anthony was adorning a
black silk waist with black lace, and while
the needle was industriously employed she
talked.
	Miss Anthony showed but little evidence
of her recent illness. Her heavy white
hair was old-fashionedly parted squarely
in the centre and bunched flat across her
broad brow. Her eyes twinkled behind
her gold-rimmed glasses as she entertain-
ingly kept up the conversation.
	“No, I am campaigning no longer,”
she said. “I am kept busy answering
correspondence. So many women want
me to give them pointers in speech writing
that I am always engaged.
	“I read in your paper the other day of
five girls winning scholarships. It did my
heart good to learn that they were more
than equal to the college men. Then I am
sympathizing with the poor American
girls who have gone to the Philippines to
teach. The Philipino will be allowed to
vote and the teacher won’t have that privi-
lege.
	“I am watching Congress closely, too,”


continued Miss Anthony. “Mrs. Catt and
Miss Shaw, you know, have asked Con-
gress for a congressional commission to
investigate the subject of women’s voting
in Wyoming, Colorado, Utah and Idaho.
Some men say that the women fail to vote.
We want Congress to investigate, and we
will accept the report of such a commision.
The Filipino, Indian and liquor traffic
have separate commissions. I don't see
why the women cannot have one.
	"I have been away from home two months
now and must soon get back. Before I
return, however, I shall visit Mrs. Eliza-
beth Cady Stanton in New York. Mrs.
Stanton will be eighty-seven years old on
her next birthday. She is just four years
older than I am.”—Woman's Journal.


HERITAGE.
	[Suggested by reading Drummond’s
“Ascent of Man.”]

	When the first man and woman had left
the seclusion of the Garden, crossed the
river of Possibility, and stood upon the
shore of Time, ready for their onward
journey toward Posterity, the Angel of
Opportunity appeared to them and said:
	“Man, make a prayer to Nature and
Life. Petition wisely, for whatsoever you
ask shall be the heritage of your sex for-
ever.”
	And the man thought and thought,
then, looking up at the glowing sun, ex-
claimed: “O Nature, do not thrust your
greatest throes upon me, nor persist in
making me remember pain.”
	The angel said to the woman, “Pray
thou also with wisdom.”
	As the woman brought low her head
she softly said: O Nature do not allow me
to grow callous nor empty. Hold me
close to the joys so few, the sorrows so
many, that I may gain strength from
each.”
	Again the Angel bade the man pray,
and once more he stood and looked toward
the glowing sun saying: “O Life, give
me joy and pleasure: Do not unload upon
me the sorrows of others; do not open my
eyes to pangs I cannot assuage. Give me
sweets and the power to cast aside regret.
	“Sister,” said the Angel, “pray.”
The women bent still lower and in a
softer voice uttered her petition: “O Life,
“Do not take away from me the memory
of sorrow, the shell holding the kernel of
joy; do not allow me to become blind to
the debt I owe others. Make me tender;
give a woman’s portion, pain—that I may
attain my full stature.”
	And that the Angel’s promise might be
redeemed, from that hour there was im-
planted in man the overmastering love
of pleasure, and engrafted in the heart of
woman the undying instincts of mother-
hood.—New Lippincott.


An American girl has been chosen to
paint a portrait of Queen Alexandra during
the coming season. She is Miss Ann West
Shaw, a grandniece of Benjamin West,
whose work first gave America a claim to
art.  Miss Shaw is a St. Louis girl.
While in London a few months ago she
painted a minature of the wife of Sir Stan-
ley Clarke, chief equerry to King Edward.
It is said that Lady Clarke’s influence
brought the young artist the commission to
paint the Queen.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

Woman's Exponent.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparie
cpace one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
ount to regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.

	Address all business communications to
		Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY, 1902.


RELIEF SOCIETY PAMPHLET.
	The Pamphlet published by the General
Officers of the Relief Society is now ready.
It is desirable to have it in the hands of
every President of the Relief Society
throughout the organization. It contains
instructions from the General Presidency
of the Relief Society that are essential
to the progress of the work in every
branch. It has the minutes of the first
organization at Nauvoo, Illinois, and other
important matter and a Biographical
Sketch of President Bathsheba W. Smith.
	For sale at this office, price 25 cents.


LETTER.
	Glen Echo, Md., April 16, 1902.
Mrs. E. B. Wells:
	MY DEAR MRS. WELLS:—Your package
of beautiful photographs is here. I have
never seen finer. If Salt Lake is as beau-
tiful as that, it is sufficient to make every-
one want to go and I am living in the hope
that one day I will. You have probably
seen that I am to go to Russia, sailing the
first day of May, hoping not to be gone
over six weeks.
	I remember every day the beautiful visit
we had in Washington and cannot feel that
that is the last of it.
	Please give great love to all the sisters
and relatives there in Salt Lake and waft
one of the kindliest breezes of love over to
Susa Gates.
	You will naturally infer that I am doing
everything hastily in these days with so
much immediately before me, and I must
even sign this letter in haste and love,
				Yours,
					CLARA BARTON.


[Column 1]
WORKING FOR PEACE!
	Groups of devoted, patriotic women all
over the world are trying to create a senti-
ment in favor of peace and the settlement
of difficulties by arbitration. One of the
potent means employed is arranging for 
meetings large and small in all the cities,
towns and hamlets where it is possible to
bring the citizens together. No distinction
is made in favor of any one class, sect or
denomination in the interests of universal
peace. We hear it said frequently, “How
absurd to be working for peace when war
is in active operation.” We, say all the
more need to try and bring about better
conditions.

[Column 2]
In an appeal “To the Women of all
Nations” by the women of France, issued
by the Princess Wisznewska she says:
	“Let women enter this Path of Peace
and draw with them future generations.
It is surely in their power to do so, for
they are the first teachers of the young
whose ideas they inspire, and often they
are co-workers with men. They can and
they ought to inculcate by their teachings
and by the persuasive accents of pity,
goodness and tenderness in the young
minds which have been entrusted to them.
It is thus that in all social surroundings
they will be able to contribute powerfully
to transform the warlike spirit and mould
the Spirit of Peace.
	“These mothers loving really their chil-
dren, these patriotic women truly attached
to their country, have undertaken the task
of enobling the human race, of elevating
the National spirit by means of an educa-
tion really worthy of mankind. Guided
by the Central Council of the Alliance
they exchange from country to country acts
of friendship, treaties of Peace whose im-
portance will be recognized in the future, for
hand clasped in hand, mothers, sisters and
wives in France, England, Germany, Russia,
Poland, Norway, Sweden, America and
Spain, etc., etc., invoke, irrespective of
political tendencies, the right of man to
Life, Happiness and Liberty. These noble
women give the example of the most
glorious, the holiest of alliances, that
which is not sealed for conquest by de-
struction and by brutal force, but which is
formed to conquer by the power of Love
and of Peace.”
	Women have, as it were, caught a
glimpse of the dream of universal fraternity.
Hon Charles Sumner, the great statesman
and one of the first and strongest champions
of woman’s emancipation and enfranchise-
ment, in an eloquent address delivered on
Boston Common, July 4, 1845, urged upon
the American nation its duty to take the
lead in a movement for universal peace.
	This year is the third time a call has
been sent out from headquarters to the
women of all lands to make public dem-
onstrations. These gatherings of women
cannot fail to have an effect upon public,
opinion whatever may be said to the con-
trary. Songs, hymns, invocations, addresses
on this subject are sure to produce favorable
results. The rescript of the Czar of Russia
three years ago opened with these words:
“The maintenance of general peace and
the possible reduction of excessive arma-
ments present themselves as ideals toward
which the endeavors of all governments
should be directed.”
	Rev. Charles G. Ames D. D., in an ad-
dress delivered in Boston said: “Shall we
go on sowing dragon’s teeth forever?
There is a more excellent way. We are to
change the animus and objects of de-
plomacy by bringing all the nations into
an alliance. We are to consult together,
not merely how one combination can out-
wit or overpower another, not merely how
to shape our policies according to the
promptings of suspicions, jealousies, old
grudges, traditional hatreds, dynastic and
territorial guides, but to contrive how
we may open the highway of prosperity to
all mankind.”
*    *    *
“The difficulties in the way of general
pacification are great, but as has been well
said, ‘more difficulties are in the way of

[Column 3]
its failure.’ The forces at work for peace
are many and mighty. The clearest
voices heard just now throughout the
civilized world are protests against war.”
	The speaker referred to enumerated the
measures to be considered:
	1. Treaties of arbitration or the set-
tlement of disputes by that method even
in the absence of treaties. Such settlements
already count by scores.
	2. Treaties of reciprocity in trade. The
rivalries of honorable commerce are all in
the interest of good neighborhood; and the
time will come—I believe it will come
soon—when the barriers to international
intercourse will be counted as relics of bar-
barism.
	3. Neutralization of the open seas. I
heard George Hale tell how for eighty
years an argument written on one sheet of
paper had kept both England and the
United States from anchoring vessels of
war on our great inland lakes, and had
made it needless to plant fortifications on
their shores. Why may not this policy be
induced to the breadth of the Atlantic
and Pacific seas which are fast becoming
like inland lakes?
	4. Provisions for international coinage,
or more probably for a monetary unit, to
the immeasurable convenience of a thou-
sand millions, and acceptable to everybody
but the money changers, are among the
possible concessions which local narrow-
ness, pettiness and precedent may yet
make to the growing spirit of goodwill and
good understanding.
	5. But crowning and completing the
edifice of justice and peace must come that
Permanent Tribunal for the settlement of
international difficulties of which we are
hearing so much and are yet to hear more.”
	There are forces at work that are help-
ing to move the world of mankind towards
peace and universal brotherhood. Light
has come into the world and it will in-
crease. Some day the civilized nations
will call a greater Conference in its interest
than has ever been yet, and the customs of
war and the implements of destruction will
be abolished.
	The Latter-day Saints above all people
should be on the side of peace. They do
not believe in the shedding of blood and
our Church difficulties are settled by arbi-
tration. The High Council in every Stake
of Zion exists for this purpose, and to avoid
lawsuits has always been the policy of our
people. Therefore as a people we stand
for peace, yet when our country calls for
men to go out and defend it our men are
ready to serve and as patriotic and heroic
as any citizens of the United States.
	If the introduction of peace flags, peace
symbols and peace literature can effect a
change and convert the youth of the age to
a higher ideal of life and its pursuits than
the paraphernalia and characteristics of
war then positive results may be expected
from the organizations of women; and the
public demonstrations now inaugurated if
kept up annually will keep the thought of
peace in the minds of the people.
	Even the pecuniary losses through wars
to the nations is insignificent compared
with the Death Roll and the license given
to all man’s fiercer passions, and the de-
moralization and degeneracy of peoples, and
incurable diseases fastened upon men and
women.
	The Psalmist David said in days of old,
“I will hear what the Lord will speak, for


He will speak peace unto His people.”
Let those who live in perilous times speak
peace, sing the songs of peace, pray earnest-
ly for peace, Those who profess to be the
followers of the Savior, the Prince of
Peace, should be men and women of peace,
not in words only but in deeds. Speed the
time when there shall be no more slaying
of men nor of any living thing.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
MISS HUNT’S VISIT.
	Miss Sarah E. Hunt, of Salem, Mass.,
on her trip westward paid a flying visit to
the Daughters of the Revolution in this
city. Arriving here early Monday morn-
ing, April 28, she was met at the depot by
Mrs. Julia F. Lund and Miss Mabelle
Snow and escorted to Mrs. P. T. Farns-
worth’s residence where breakfast was
waiting. Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith,
Mrs. E. B. Wells and Mrs. Clarissa Smith
Williams were Mrs. Farnsworth’s guests to
meet Miss Hunt at breakfast.
	Afterwards an informal meeting was
held in the parlors that were decorated
with the colonial colors, etc. The regent,
Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, in the chair.
Prayer was offered by Mrs. B. W. Smith
and the speaker was introduced by the
regent, who mentioned that Miss Hunt
had just arrived from Denver where she
had attended the biennial of the D. R.
and had been elected First Vice-President
General of the D. R. General Society, con-
sequently this was her first meeting in her
new official capacity.
	Miss Hunt gave a sort of resume of the
recent biennial at Denver, the various ex-
cursions planned, the pleasure of the dele-
gates and a general idea of what had been
accomplished, explained her idea of the
legitimate work of the D. R., and spoke
of the sisterly feeling which should exist
among the women thus banded together.
Felt we must do vital patriotic work in the
line of good citizenship, educating the
masses for future usefulness, and meantime
in every possible way depleting the crimin-
al classes among the young.
	The speaker was enthusiastic on the
subject of Junior classes and Mr. George’s
Republic at Freeville, N. Y., said it had
worked admirably and attracted great
attention from educators and men and
women engaged in reformatary work. The
plan is to assist in taking poor boys from
the streets and giving them opportunities
to help themselves in industrial pursuits,
and the motto is, “Nothing Without
Labor,” and to make labor honorable.
They make their own laws, the girls vote
as well as the boys, and they have a court
where those who do wrong are tried,
smoking is one of the things for which
they are tried. Some very incorrigible
boys have been redeemed through the
methods enforced there and the results as a
whole have been gratifying. In the
Republic boys who had never heard the
word duty are taught practical lessons of
their duty to others. The affair is entirely
unsectarian and is practically self-support-
ing, those living there pay in work for
everything they have a nominal price. It
is something on the plan of Hull House,
although it is not for adults only juniors.
Almost all kinds of trades are taught, also
gardening; there is a printing press and a
newspaper is published by the boys on the
grounds.
	At the close of Miss Hunt’s “talk”

[Column 2]
“America,” was sung by the ladies, Miss
Alice Farnsworth playing the accompani-
ment, and benediction was pronounced.
Introductions and good byes and a hurried
leave taking and expressions of good
fellowship and an urgent invitation to the
honored guest to visit us again.
	There were about thirty ladies present.
Mrs. Wells and Mrs. Lund accompanied
Miss Hunt to the station to take the train
for Los Angeles, she will return to Boston
by the Canadian route. She expects to
stop at Spokane and other cities and do
some organizing of the Daughtors of the
Revolution before returning home.


ENTERTAINMENT AT BEE HIVE.
	Wednesday, April 8, 1902, Sister Julina
L. Smith entertained the officers and Board
of Directors of the National Woman’s
Relief Society and a few invited guests at
the Bee Hive House, assisted by a com-
mittee from the Board: Sisters Emily S.
Richards, Julia P. M. Farnsworth and
Phebe Y. Beatie.
	A delicious luncheon was served and the
social intercourse was delightfully pleasant.
	Among the guests who were not mem-
bers of the General Board were Sisters
Martha Smith Harris, of Provo, Sarah
Richards Smith and Edna L. Smith, of
this city. All the members of the Board
of Directors were present excepting Helena
E. Madsen, of Gunnison, Harriet M.
Brown, of Kanab, Martha A. Cannon,
Washington, D. C., and Lucy S. Cardon,
of Logan, Utah.
	An enjoyable afternoon was passed and
the ladies were happy in having the oppor-
tunity of social conversation and inter-
change of ideas, which helps to create
union of effort in philanthropic work.
	Thanks to Sister Julina L. Smith for the
happy occasion.


A SOCIAL AFTERNOON.
	A social gathering or party was given
by Sisters Sarah J., Martha T. and Carlie
Y. Cannon, on Tuesday, April 22 ult., to
about fifty ladies at the residence of C. Y.
Cannon. The handsome hall, parlors and
dining room were beautifully decorated
and the company was of a social nature,
conversation enlivening, interspersed with
music, songs, etc.
	Little Miss Ann Cannon gave some
humorous recitations, Miss Vera Cannon,
who has a fine voice, sang, in her best
style, songs old and new. Miss Hester
Cannon, a skillful musician, favored the
company with some choice piano music
and Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon gave a
favorite recitation and the hours flew
swiftly by.
	A delicious luncheon was served in the
spacious dining room, large enough to
seat all the guests. Sister M. Isabella
Horne, the oldest lady present, pronounced
the blessing. The tables were prettily
decorated with flowers and a happy feeling
pervaded the company, who all seemed to
to enjoy the appetizing viands.
	Such hours of social intercourse are
good for all, and and endear to each other
those whose time is so occupied in
everyday pursuits that they have little op-
portunity to meet and greet neighbors and
friends. To bring congenial friends to-


gether for social enjoyment is to confer
a real benefit as well as pleasure. 
Hand grasps hand, eye lights eye in good friend-
	ship,
And great hearts expand, and grow, one in the
	sense of this world’s life.


SILK CULTURE.
	Silk is a valuable article, either in its
culture or manufacture; that it does not
stand out as one of the leading industries
of our State today is a silent reproach to
the intelligence, the industry, the patience
of its people, as for many hundred years
the silk worm has been inextricably asso-
ciated among the industrial types of highly
refined people attaining the upper strata of
culture and civilization; the adornment,
the luxury and the fountains of wealth to
nations who have lifted themselves above
the pursuit of those coarser industrial avo-
cations of mankind. It is the jewel of the
great agricultural diadem with which
society has crowned itself, as a splendid
testimony of its highest achievements in
its conflict with the coarse habits and tastes
which have retarded communities in their
aim at refinement.
	In the early days of our country Silk
Culture was the amusement of our grand-
mothers. Before the Revolution the
smoothly woven and splendidly colored
gowns made by those venerable women
were the pride of the household, and the
envy of their homespun-clad rivals; and
consignments of raw silk sent to our
mother country at one time inspired the
hope that the means hdd been found to
thwart her hereditary enemy, France. Yet
all these efforts sank into oblivion, and
our country yielded the main-spring which
has proven to be a powerful agent in the
spread of commerce.
	We can almost say that Nature has
planted the mulberry in the valleys among
our high mountains, and has accompanied
it with a climate so thoroughly adapted to
the silk worm; that the intelligence and
skill of our women should apply it to their
improvement, and no time will ever be
better than the present to avail ourselves
of the opportunity to establish our own silk
industry, and the hope that perhaps in the
future we might throw off a dependence
which annually costs our country more
than eighty millions of dollars, challenges
us to a trial of the silk industry.
	As a result of the work which has been
done since the appointment of our Com-
mission we are able to give the follow-
ing table which we hope will prove an im-
petus to many in the State to set out trees
and utilize the leaves of those already
grown, so they may gain an understanding
of the work, and that the production of the
coming year may greatly exceed that of
the past. Two hundred mulberry trees
will grow very well on two acres of land.
A good medium sized tree will yield 150
pounds of leaves, which will give 30,000
pounds on two acres. As it takes seven-
teen pounds of leaves to make one pound of
fresh cocoons, 30,000 pounds will give
1,765 pounds of fresh cocoons. The 1,765
pounds of fresh cocoons will make 600
pounds of dried cocoons, which, if of good
quality, are worth $600 at once; if they can
be reeled by the same people the silk will
be worth $1200.
	The expenses of cultivating two acres in
trees, feeding the worms, etc., may be
stated as follows:


One grown person, first ten days at $1.50
per day, $15.00; two boys or girls, first
ten days, 25cts per day, $5.00; two grown
persons, second ten days, $1.50 per day,
$30.00; five boys or girls, second ten days,
25cts. per day, $12.50; three grown per-
sons, third ten days, $1.50 per day.
$45 00; sixteen boys or girls, third ten
days, 25cts. per day, $40.00; total $147.00.
	We also give the following extracts from
a letter written by a lady who has had
considerable experience in raising silk in
Springville. While the values are very
low, it will give some idea of the loss we
are annually sustaining:
	“Presuming upon the number of forty
thousand families in Utah, and that each
family raises only twenty pounds of
cocoons, the bounty alone on this would
be $5.00 to each family, which means
$200,000 to the State alone; but let us
carry these figures further: Twenty pounds
of cocoons would produce four pounds of
reeled silk, which at $4 00 a pound is $21.00
to each family and $840,000 to the State. But
if each family should produce forty pounds,
which can be done in every house that has
a boy ten years old to gather the leaves,
this would give the sum of $1,680,000
yearly. I trust this statement will appeal
so strongly to all that they will not allow
this golden opportunity to pass unheeded
and thus prevent employment to hundreds
of our sons and daughters. We have
quality, what we want is quantity to en-
courage capital to establish mills.”
	Since the Commission began their work
many thousand trees have been added to
those planted years ago, and while we feel
greatly encouraged with the work which
has been accomplished we are very anxious
to extend the work as fast as possible,
and every woman who raises a few pounds
of cocoons in her house will some day see
that she has done much towards this great
enterprise which will eventually prove one
of the foundation stones upon which the
prosperity of our State shall stand.
			MARGARET A. CAINE.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LETTER FROM BROOKLYN.
	The Society in Brooklyn was organized
with eleven members by Elder J. H. Gar-
rett, president of the Brooklyn conference,
with Sister Estella Milligan as president,
Sister Sarah McKenna and Sister C. D.
Laine counselors, and Sister Belle Shaffer
secretary and treasurer, on March 6, 1900.
Work was carried on by the officers until
Sister Milligan moved from the Conference.
The society was reorganized on July 27,
1900, with Sister Agnes Rose Lane, presi-
dent, Sister C. D. Laine and Sister Lillian
Stillman, counselor and Sister Belle Shaffer
secretary and treasurer. Since that time
the only change in the organization is the
second counselor, Sister Mary Birchnall,
to fill the vacancy caused by Sister Still-
man moving to Utah.
	The society is now composed of twenty-
four members and our object is the same
as that of other branches of the society
elsewhere. We aim to do relief work
among those who may need it, but make it
a special aim to visit the sick and needy
and also to visit all the Saints and friends
in the conference to help the Elders who
are here as missionaries teach the Gospel.
We hold regular meetings of the society on
the fourth Sunday of every month at the
home of Sister C. D. Laine, at 202 West
23rd St., New York City. These are our

[Column 2]
spiritual meetings and we invite all the
people of the Conference to attend them—
Elders, Saints and friends. The time at
these meetings is taken up by some of the
sisters reading from the Bible and reading
an original composition on some principle
of the Gospel, the subject of the paper is
then open for discussion, and then the rest
of the time is taken up in testimony bear-
ing. We feel that a great amount of good
is done at these meetings by giving us all
a better knowledge of the Gospel truth.
	Once every month the members of the
society meet in a business meeting, and
also once every month we meet at the dif-
ferent homes of the sisters for a sewing
circle. At these we do sewing for those
of our Conference who need help in this
way, especially those with large families.
We have given a number of social gather-
ings to which we invited our friends and
made them acquainted with the members
of the society and also with the Elders and
thereby we think good seed has been
sown that has aided in the missionary work
in our Conference.
	We have in Greater New York a num-
ber of the Saints from Zion, and we appre-
ciate their aid in our society work.
	We have just had the pleasure of having
some of the leaders in Relief Society work
with us: Sister Emmeline B. Wells, Gener-
al Secretary of the Relief Society; Sister
Annie T. Hyde, First Counselor to the
General President, B. W. Smith; Sister Ida
S. Dusenberry, Second Counselor; Sister
Phebe Y. Beattie a member of the General
Board.
	On Tuesday evening, March 4, the
Elders, Saints and friends of the Brooklyn
Conference met at the home of Sister C. D.
Laine and Mrs. Helen Davis, 202 West
23rd St , New York City, to hold their
regular Tuesday night meeting.
	As these sisters who have been men-
tioned, also Sister Christine S. Taylor,
Sister Maria Y. Dougall and others were
there, the meeting was given over into the
hands of the Relief Society, Sister C. D.
Laine, acting president of the society,
presiding in the absence of Sister Agnes
Rose Lane.
	The meeting began by singing, prayer
and the reading of a chapter from the
Bible, after which a few very interesting
and encouraging remarks concerning the
work of women, especially those engaged
in the Relief Society work, were given by
President John G. McQurrie, president of
the Eastern States Mission, and also by
President George A. Goff, President of the
Brooklyn Conference.
	The following named sisters then spoke
in the order given, each bearing a strong
testimony to the truthfulness of the Gospel
and of the great work of the Relief Society
all through the Church: Sisters Emmeline
B. Wells, Annie T. Hyde, Ida S. Dusen-
berry, Maria Y. Dougall and Christina S.
Taylor.
	Each said she knew Joseph Smith was a
prophet of God, and that the work he
established was of God. Sister Wells bore
an exceptionally strong testimony that
Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, telling
us of the first time she met him and of her
feelings upon that occasion; her whole
being was so filled with joy that a thrill
went through her like a shock of electricity
when she first shook hands with him.
That testimony has ever remained with
her. Many good, encouraging remarks

[Column 3]
were given for all present and we certainly
had a spiritual feast.
	On Thursday evening, March 6, the
Brooklyn Conference Relief Society and
Elders gave an entertainment in the par-
lors at 250 West 23rd St., New York City,
in honor of our visiting sisters. The enter-
tainment consisted of a short but very
good program, refreshments and dancing.
Speeches were made by President McQuar-
rie, Sister Hyde and Sister Susa Y. Gates.
We had the pleasure of listening to the
beautiful singing of Miss Emma Lucy
Gates and Miss Ruth Wilson, the latter is
here studying. Both were at their best
and all enjoyed their singing greatly.
There were over one hundred present and
all seemed well pleased.
	Monday, March 17, we celebrated the
sixtieth anniversary of the organization of
the Relief Society by holding a meeting in
the A. B. C. Building, 67 West 125th St.,
New York City. There were present the
sisters from Zion, all the Elders of the
Brooklyn Conference, President McQuarrie
and counselors, of the Eastern States
Mission, members of our society and a
number of Saints and friends, about sixty
people present, Sister C. D. Lane presid-
ing. “Singing, Jesus once of humble
birth.” Prayer was offered by Brother
Willard Young. Singing, “Praise to the
man who communed with Jehovah.”
	Sister Beatie gave a fine talk on the life
of the Prophet Joseph Smith, how, when
and why he organized the Relief Society.
Spoke very feelingly of the life and works
of Sister Emma Smith, the first president
of the society, also of Sister Eliza R. Snow
Sister Zina D. H. Young and Sister B W.
Smith, the present president of the society,
gave some good instructions to the
society here. Sister Dougall also bore a
strong testimony to the truthfulness
of the Gospel and the divine mission of
Joseph Smith as a prophet of God.
	Sister Susa Y. Gates spoke very feeling-
ly of the sacrifices and hardships that the
pioneers of Utah had to undergo. Showed
how so many had suffered for the Gospel’s
sake, and how they had been blessed for so
doing. Urged all to be willing to do the
same and to not think they are the only
ones who had done so.
	Sister Taylor, of Provo, Utah spoke a
short time after which the meeting was
turned into a regular testimony meeting
for all present, especially the sisters. Near-
ly every woman present bore her testi-
mony, a number of whom were not mem-
bers of the Church.
	By request President McQuarrie spoke a
short time and a number of the Elders bore
their testimonies. All felt that the Spirit
of God was with us and we indeed had a
spiritual feast. Sister C. D. Laine ex-
pressed the sentiments of all when she said
that we felt more than blest by having the
great privilege of having the sisters from
Zion with us and that we wished them God
speed on their homeward journey.
	We were asked to remember in our
prayers Sister Lucy Becroft, our lady mis-
sionary from Utah, who had the misfor-
tune some months ago of spraining her
knee.
	 Closing hymn, “O, my Father.” Bene-
diction by President George A. Goff.
		Your sister in the Gospel,
			BELLE SHAFFER, Sec.

	Since the writing of the above a class for
Gospel instruction has been formed under


the auspices of our society, with Sister
Susa Young Gates, who intends remaining
in New York City for some time, for the
teacher. The class has had two lessons,
each on Faith. The class will meet once a
week, every Thursday, fourteen attended
last week. The class is open for names,
whether society members or not.
		B.S.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

			JULIA S MCKEE.

	The grim reaper, Death, visited our Relief
Society, November 12 of the present year and
took from us our faithful and beloved first vice-
president, Julia Sophia Raymond McKee.
	She was ill several months with dropsy, but the
strong will which enabled her to conquer many
difficulties kept her in the faithful performance of
her duties until five weeks before her death. Only
one week would she consent to have any assistance
excepting from her granddaughter, Miss Pearl
Riley, who lived with her. Then all that loving
care could do was done to comfort her in her last
hours, She was cheerful to the last, her greatest
desire was not to be a burden.
	Sister McKee was born February 9, 1831, at
Hempstead, Long Island, N. Y She had an
early religious training and records in her diary
that in her seventh year, while returning
from Sabbath School, she saw a stranger preach-
ing to a crowd of people.
	As she drew near to the crowd he prophesied
that a disease would come among them that
would cause the death of many of their children;
and that shortly after this a strange doctrine
would be introduced to them. No one knew from
whence he came or where he went.
	When Julia was in her tenth year she saw the
prediction fulfilled, the scarlet fever being the
disease spoken of and the strange doctrine which
followed was the Gospel as taught by the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Her parents
embraced the same and she was baptized of
her own accord when thirteen years of age by
Elder Theodore Curtis.
	She moved with her parents to Nauvoo in 1845
and passed through the persecutions at that time
without a word of complaint. She was married
to Hugh McKee at Winter Quarters November
2, 1849. He went away to work and during the
year of his abs[-]nce Julia’s mother died and her
father gave her the baby, Annie, which she raised
as her own child.
	They arrived in Salt Lake City September 15,
1852, and cheerfully met and overcame the trials
incident to that early day. Concerning the fam-
ine she says, “During the summer of 1856 I had
very little bread, but the Lord caused weeds to
grow in abundance where they had not grown be-
fore. We had more milk than we had other
years and we lived on weeds and milk. I know
the Lord blessed us in these valleys of the
mountains. During all the time that we were
without bread my children never asked for it, but
ate such as we had and were satisfied.
	Sister McKee was the mother of six children,
one of whom died in infancy. She had forty-six
grandchildren, thirty-six of whom are living, and
eighteen great grandchildren, seventeen living.
	She has lived at South Cottonwood, Palmyra,
Spanish Fork, Santaquin, Goshen and Hunting-
ton. She has assisted the poor and sick and
cared for the dead since she was fourteen years
old. She also labored for a long time as a
teacher in the Sunday School and Relief Society,
and also assisted in religion class work.
	For more than twelve years she has had charge
of the sacrament dishes and furnished bread for
the same, not once failing to have it ready at the
proper time.
	She assisted her husband in caring for and dis-
bursing the fast offerings under the direction of
the Bishop, until her husband’s death three years
ago. Since then she has had that responsibility
herself.
	For eleven years she was secretary in the
Huntington Relief Society and was chosen last
February as first vice-president in the same, filling
these offices with the same zeal and integrity that
has characterized her whole life. She was a good
neighbor and despised gossip and scandal.
	We mourn her absence but rejoice in her rest,
for we know she will receive the reward of the
faithful. 
				MARY  E. WESTOVER,
				MARY S. FOWLER,
							Committee,


A FAITHFUL SISTER GONE.
	We are called upon to chronicle the death of
our dearly beloved sister and mother, Sister
Tryphena Fairchilds, who departed this life
November 24, 1901, at the home of her daughter,
Tryphena Bryson, at Woodruff, Utah, after being
confined to her bed for five years from the effects
of a stroke that prevented her from raising her
body, but she suffered very little until the last two
weeks. All that loving hands could do was done
for her until she passed away, her daughter never
tiring in trying to make her life comfortable
through all the years she could not help herself.
	Aunt Phena, as she was called by her friends,
was in her eighty-seventh year, but her mind was
bright and clear and her countenance as noble as
only a daughter of Zion’s can be, she was affected
in body only.
	The funeral took place November 26, the High
Council of the Woodruff Stake being the pall
bearers. The speakers were Elders William H.
Lee, S. C. Putman, A. C. Call, President J. M.
Baxter, Bishop Peter McKinnon and William
Longherst. All said she had fought the good
fight and kept the faith, that her life had been an
exemplary one. During the years she was con-
fined to her bed she never complained, but always
said she was ready to go when her heavenly
Father saw fit to call her home. She was laid to
rest on the hillside with some of her dear friends
who had gone before.
			BIOGRAPHICAL.
	Tryphena Pomeroy Fairchilds was born June
28, 1815, at Homer, Courtland Co., N. Y. She
lived with her parents. Charles and Polly Pomer-
oy until she was eighteen years of age. She then
married William Lewis, by whom she had two
children. He only lived four years after they
were married and a few months after the father’s
death the little boy died. Now she was left alone
with her baby girl, she had no home and had to
work for her living. Her father was a farmer
and had taught her to spin flax and wool and she
also learned to braid palm leaf hats. She lived a
widow for seven years, then she married John
Fairchilds, a widower with a family nearly all
grown, by whom she had two more children, a
girl and a boy. She lived with this husband about
eight years, then they separated. the father taking
the boy.
	She then went to visit her sister, Lucy Wood,
in Michigan. where she heard two Mormon mis-
sionaries preach. She investigated the doctrine
and embraced it, being baptized January 28,
1858 by Elder Oscar Stodard. Her eldest
daughter being married there was only herself
and daughter Tryphena, but her father and
mother, sisters and brother lived near, yet only
herself and daughter and sister Lucy and family
joined the Church. They with a few friends
wanted to gather with the Saints in Utah, so by
working and saving for many months, she with
the rest started April 18th, 1859, in the company
of James S. Brown, traveling in ox teams driving
one herself most of the way. They arrived in
Salt Lake City, August 29, 1859.
	She worked from one place to another for sever-
al years, making clothes, spinning and weaving,
she spun the cotton and made the warp and made
linsey. She lived in Salt Lake City until 1867,
when her daughter was married to Samuel Bryson.
They lived in Bountiful until 1871, and then
moved to Woodruff, Utah. She taught school
there for a few years. She was second counselor
in the Relief Society for years until circumstances
would not permit. She was always a friend to
the poor and sick. When dreaded diseases were
raging and others were afraid she would go and
take care of them, never thinking of herself.
After her strength was exhausted in that way and
she was not able to stand hard work, she made
quilts and Temple clothes for the sisters. She was
handy with her needle, making very pretty em-
broidery and patchwork. She passed through a
great many trials but never complained, and died
as she had lived, a faithful Latter-day Saint.
						ELIZA COOK.


REUNION.
	The Relief Society of the St. Joseph
Stake met in reunion Monday, March 17,
1902, at the Werch Opera House in Pima,
with President Elizabeth Layton in charge.
	At one o’clock p. m. the members and
invited guests began gathering at the hall,
where they were received by the reception
committee, which consisted of all the Stake


officers of the Relief Society. By two p.
m., the hour appointed for commencing the 
exercises, between two and three hundred
society workers were present to enjoy the 
literary program which had been previous-
ly arranged, consisting of songs, recitations, 
readings and music, interspersed with 
addresses by Presidents Anderson, Kimball, 
Patriarch Claridge and others. 
Counselor Adelia Curtis in a few well 
chosen words welcomed all present in her 
usual happy style, which resulted in 
every one feeling free and at ease. 
Counselor Mary L. Ransom gave a brief 
history of the Relief Society of this Stake 
since its organization.
	President Kimball was instrumental in 
having a resolution adopted in which any 
member of the Relief Society of the St. 
Joseph Stake would work with untiring
energy and zeal until they had enrolled 
one member in the society for each family
in the Stake. After the rendition of the
program, a sumptuous luncheon, which
had been prepared by the good sisters was 
served while all enjoyed themselves chat-
ting, receiving old acquaintances and form-
ing new ones. 
	In the evening a goodly number partici-
pated in a dancing party which proved a 
financial as well as a social success..
				SARAH WEBB, Sec,


KANSAS CITY CONFERENCE.
	Minutes in brief of the Relief Society
of Kansas City, Jackson Co., Missouri,
which was held September 27, 1902, in the
hall at 1107 East 19th Street, with Presi-
dent Estella Milligan presiding. Services
began with singing, “Do what is right.”
Prayer by Jas. G. Duffin, president of the
Southwestern States mission. Singing,
“We thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.”
	President Estella Milligan made a few
appropriate remarks, said she felt very glad
to meet with the sisters of Utah, as Sister
Sarah J. Cannon, Annie T. Hyde and her
daughter Jean were present, having come
to visit the different branches of the society
in the mission.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde was then intro-
duced. She spoke of the organization of
the Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph at
Nauvoo, Illinois, March 17, 1842, with
Sister Emma Smith as President. Gave
instances in her own life of blessings re
ceived by doing her duty in the Relief
Society work Gave statistics pertaining
to the growth of the work, and said many
interesting and gratifying things, which
were highly appreciated by all present.
	Sister Jean Hyde read the address de-
livered by President Lorenzo Snow to the
Relief Society at Saltair, July 9, 1901.
	Sister Amelia B. Carling, missionary
from Orderville, Utah, bore a faithful test-
imony to the truthfulness of the Gospel.
Was glad to have the privilege of defend-
ing God’s work in the land of promise.
	President Jas. G. Duffiin was the next
speaker. He said he was very much
pleased to have the sisters of Utah with us
Spoke at some length encouraging the
sisters in the work. Bore his testimony
that the organization of the Relief Society
was inspired of the Lord. Spoke of the
Woman’s Building at Salt Lake City and
encouraged the sisters to contribute to the
same.
	President Estella Milligan made a few
closing remarks and the meeting closed by


[Column 1]
singing, “O, my Father," and benediction
by Elder Fred H. Bradshaw.
	Afternoon session began by singing,
“High on the mountain top.” Prayer by
Brother Preator, of Independence. Singing
“The Spirit of God like a fire is burning.”
	Sister Amelia B. Carling said she felt
like doing her duty in helping to roll on
this great work, was thankful she was
born in this day and age of the world when
the Gospel had been restored to the earth,
and that she knew Joseph Smith was a
prophet of God.
	President Estella A. Milligan said the
sisters from Utah desired to hear the testi-
monies of the sisters.
	Sister Lenora J. McCarthy said she felt
like doing her duty and exerting every
effort to build up the Relief Society.
	Sister Almyra Hines, of Independence,
felt thankful to have the privilege of
meeting the sisters from Utah.
	Sister Margaret Hutchinson, of Indepen-
dence, asked the sisters to assist her with
their faith and prayers. She felt pleased to
meet with us in conference and to meet the
sisters from Utah.
	Elder David O. Allen, Brother Preator,
Sister Louisa Preator, Sister Almyra Hines
with Sister Lucy Hines at the organ enter-
tained the audience with singing a quartet.
	Sister Elizabeth Roller was thankful the
Elders brought the glad news of the Gospel
to her.
	Sister Lucy Hines of Independence, felt
like doing her best in the work of the
Lord.
	Sister Dora McDonald was glad to meet
the sisters from Utah, and Sister Sarah
Long asked for the faith and prayers of the
sisters. Sister Susan F. Pletts was thank-
ful for the privilege of coming to the meet-
ing and glad to meet the sisters who had
come so far for the Gospel’s sake and to
instruct us in the Relief Society work,
	Sister Sarah E. Giles was glad she was
a Latter-day Saint, and Sister Ellen Swan-
son felt like doing her part in the Relief
Society work.
	Mrs. Turner, mother of President Estella
Milligan, bore a faithful testimony al-
though she is not a member of the Church,
but hopes to be some day, and asked the
Saints for their prayers.
	First Counselor Kate Brown was glad to
meet the sisters from Utah and have the
privilege of hearing them speak. 
	President Estella Milligan said the Lord
had heard, and answered her prayers
many times.
	Second Counselor Louisa Preator, of
Independence; spoke and bore a faithful
testimony to the truthfulness of the Gos-
pel. She was glad to meet with the Saints
in conference, and intends to live true and
faithful and do all she can to help build up
the Relief Society work in this the chosen
land.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon said if we would
live up to the requirements of the Gospel
the Lord would be our help. Our mothers
should be thankful for the title, for it is the
greatest blessing given to women.

[Column 2]
Sister Amelia Carling sang a solo, en-
titled, “Scenes of Childhood.”
	Sister Annie T. Hyde said when she
looked over the audience and saw so many
young men who had left their homes and
loved ones for the purpose of preaching
the Gospel, it brought tears to her eyes.
Knew their mothers and sisters would be
proud of them could they have the privi-
lege of looking into their bright faces to-
day. “We mothers should be thankful to
have our sons fill this position. If the
sisters here would be faithful it would as-
sist greatly in rolling on the Lord’s work
in the center Stake of Zion. We mothers
should be proud of our children and train
them up to be useful men and women.
Spoke of the responsibility of mothers in
training their children.
	President Jas. G. Duffin spoke of the
perfect order that prevails in the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and of
the rights of the women to preside in
their own meetings. “Woman’s place is
beside man, not at his feet.” Said many
things pertaining to the responsibility of
mothers in raising their families, and that
this organization would prepare mothers for
their duties to their families.
	Elder Fred H. Bradshaw said the day
had come when men were willing to assist
women in doing good.
	Singing, “Praise to the man who com-
muned with Jehovah.” Conference ad-
journed for six months. Benediction by
Elder Geo. E. Brown.
		LEONORA J. MCCARTHY, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
   WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage.  We aim to give you as
	much as possible for your money,							      TRY US
					[To the left of "TRY US" there appears to be a symbol/logo]
			
[Column 2]				
Save Your Money!

	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.

	    Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.

	    The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order.  Have
	you such an account?  If not, open
	one NOW

	    We pay FOUR PER CENT IN
	TEREST on any amount from one dol
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.

WRITE for any information desired.
		       LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
		       GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.


[Column 1]
KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI.
	Here in the great city of Kansas, Mo.,
among her thousands of inhabitants, is a
band of sisters few in number but united
in purpose. That purpose is one that
teaches every true woman to love her
Maker, to honor the priesthood of God, to
prize virtue and purity as her life, to ad-
minister to the wants of the poor and
needy, to visit the afflicted and to love all
God's creatures.
	“The Elevation of Woman” is our
motto, and when woman reaches that
standard, when she can say that her mind
and body are pure, then the day must
come when man must also forsake sin, for
vice and virtue cannot dwell together. For
a wise purpose God has placed us here on
earth. The mission of his daughters is to
become wives and mothers, and when one
is a true wife and mother she has attained
the highest position a woman can occupy
on this earth.
	On the 17th of March the Relief Society
met at 1421 Locust St, at 8 o'clock, with
all the members and their husbands pres-
ent, also the president and counselors of
the Southwestern States mission, eighteen
Elders and the two lady missionaries.
	We sang “We thank Thee, O God for a
prophet.” Prayer was offered by Elder
Charles England. Our president, Sister
Estella Milligan, in a few well chosen

[Column 2]
words expressed her pleasure in being per-
mitted to meet with the sisters on the
sixtieth anniversary of the organization of
the Relief Society.
	Miss Pearl and Mr. William Smedley
then sang.
	President James G. Duffin gave a very
interesting sketch on the organization of
the Relief Society and its progress up to
the present time.
	The lady missionaries were represented
by Sister Sarah M. Giles, who gave in
brief but pointed words our aim in the
mission work: to be true representatives of
the daughters of Zion, to assist our sisters
in gaining the blessings to be obtained
through the Relief Society: one of the
highest aims of which is to qualify the
sisters for the most important and honor-
able position given to woman, that of
being a true mother in Israel, and to train
up her children in righteousness.
	President Estella Milligan then presented
Sister Mary Smedley with a silver bread
tray as a token of remembrance for her un-
tiring efforts while acting as secretary in 
the society. Sister Smedley thanked the
sisters for the token of appreciation and
assured them that the memory of her work
in the Relief Society would always bring
pleasure. She leaves for her home in
Utah, April I.
	The remainder of the evening was spent
in social chat, refreshments were served
and at eleven o’clock benediction was pro-
nounced by Elder Adams.
		MARUTHEA ATKINSON.


“Miss Clara Barton and Mrs. J. Ellen 
Foster have been appointed by the State
Department at Washington as two of the
six delegates on the part of the United
States to the Seventh International Red
Cross Conference to be held at St. Peters-
burg, Russia, May 16-29. The other
delegates are: Rear Admiral W. K. Van
Reypen, ex-Surgeon General of the Navy,
retired, Washington, D. C.; Col. Nicholas
Senn, Surgeon General, Illinois State
Militia, Chicago; and Mr. B.F. Tillinghast,
editor of the Democrat and Gazette of Da-
venport, Iowa, U. S. Military Attache at
the Embassy at St. Petersburg, represent-
ing the Army. Mr. Tillinghast gathered
the shipload of corn sent to the famine
sufferers in Russia a few years ago. Mrs.
Foster will sail April 30 by the American
Line.”


Woman's Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation

Vol. 30			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1902			No. 14


CONTENTS.

Biographical Sketch of Fannie I. Helmuth		105
The Imperial Palace in Berlin..L. D. Alder		106
Virgen City Celebration.....Marion L Pratt		106
 Medical Congress....................				106
Yellow, Pnrple, White...................				107
Lyman Celebration.......Maruetha Atkinson		107
Red Cross Meets.......................				107
Chicago Sweat Shops....................				109
Program of Council Meeting..Susa Y. Gates		110
Sketch and Resolution.....Mary A. Ransom		111
Essay on Relief Society Work.. A. Griffiths		111
National Council Notes.....Susa Y. Gates		111
Utah Woman's Press Club........L. D. Alder		112

Editorial—Thirty Volumes...................			108
	Four Score Years.....................			108
Distinguished Women.........					108

POETRY-Let us have Peace..Emily H. Wood-
			mansee..........................................  105
	  In   Futuro....................................Selected  	105
  	  To the Sisters........ L. L. Greene Richards	107


LET US HAVE PEACE.
	“Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be
called the children of God.”—Jesus,

		"Let us have peace.”
		Oh! would to God we could
Hasten the time when love and equity
Will sway the world, and peace on earth restore;
Would we could tell the troubled multitude— 
“Swords into ploughshares soon shall beaten be, 
Nations and tribes henceforward will agree— 
	And study war no more. 

		“Let us have peace.”
		Can heaven reject the prayer?
Can heaven ignore the widow’s piteous moan?
Or disregard the orphan's grievous cry?
God sees His children's suffering everywhere
The mournful sigh ascends to heavens white throne.
God’s plans are surely broader than our own;
Can aught His love outvie?

		“Let us have peace.”
		Let men their wrath restrain,
Let the world’s sisterhood their efforts blend. 
That strife may wane and happiness increase.
Ambitious greed, that would advantage gain
Must loose its hold, ere direful war will end;
Inspire the race. Almighty Lord and Friend
	To speed the reign of peace.
				EMILY H. WOODMANSEE,
	Salt Lake City, May, 1902.


IN FUTURO.

It seems to me the bud of expectation
Has not yet swollen to the perfect flower
That with its wondrous fragrant exhalation
	The world of faith will dower.

The lamps we light are but the stars of promise,
The faintest reflex of a distant sun
That wakes an eager salutation from us,
	Till nobler heights are won.

The past was but the preface to the story
In which the romance of our lives is wrought;
The deeds that win imperishable glory
	Live scarcely in our thought.

Whate’er we do falls short of our intending;
The structure lacks the beauty we design;
And tortured angels to their home ascending,
	Depart and leave no sign.

By all the doubts and trials that so vex us,
By all the falls and failures that annoy,
By all the strange delusions that perplex us,
	And yield no fruit of joy.

We know that unto mortals is not given
The strength or knowledge that is yet in store 
For us, ere yet we walk the streets of heaven,
	And dream of heaven no more.


The heart of earth has secrets yet withholden,
That wait the dawning of some future day,
When angel hands from sepulchre so golden
	Shall roll the stone away.

Man has not touched the [---]th of creation;
The godlike thought that filled Jehovah's mind
Has had in him but feeble revelation,
	Uncertain, undefined

The days wherein Time reaches its fruition,
With moments weighted with no vain regret,
Those days of which the soul has sweet pre-
	vision,
		Draw nigh, but are not yet.
							SELECTED.


[Column 1]
BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF FANNIE I. 
HELMUTH

PRESIDENT NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN.

Fannie Ida Helmuth, born in New York
City, of patriotic family, twenty-two mem-
bers having fought in the Revolution on
the American side. Ancestors lived in
New York from 1672, but during her early
childhood her parents moved to St. Louis,
where her father entered business as a
banker, and was the organizer, captain and
afterwards colonel, of the first company of
militia of the National guards in that
city.
Took a keen interest in charitable work
of all kinds from the time she was ten
years old, and especially in the Orphans’
Home of St. Louis, of which her mother
was first directress.
Was the first woman to drive over the
Steel arch bridge constructed at St. Louis
across the Mississippi River by the well
known engineer, Captain James B. Eads,
the captain being her escort. Was also the
first woman to make the trip on the
Missouri Pacific Railroad to Indian Terri-
tory, and the first on the Ohio and Missis-
sippi, after the opening of those roads and
the retirement of stage coaches.
Was married to William Tod Helmuth,
in St. Louis, February 10, 1859—three
children, two of them are living.
Has always taken great interest and
pride in her husband’s advancement in his
profession, and his welfare is always con-
sidered first. She and her husband moved
to New York in 1870, and three hospitals
in that city had their beginning in her
house. On one occasion $100,000 was
raised in two weeks, during the first year 
she was in New York, by means of a fair,
for the benefit of one of these hospitals.
For another a fair was given and $10,000
was realized.
Mrs. Helmuth also founded and for
eleven years was president of the Woman’s
Guild of the New York Homoeopathic
Medical College and Hospital.
Visited Japan in 1892. The party was
caught in a typhoon on the way to Myon-
oshita, and was in great danger for several
hours. It was only by the strenous
efforts of Dr. and Mrs. Helmuth that the
frightened guides could be induced to go
forward to safety. On the way home, two
days out from Yokohama, the ship was dis-
covered to be on fire in one of the large
compartments. Finding it impossible to
control the flames the captain made for the

[Column 2]
port of Hakodadi, in northern Japan,
which was not reached for thirty-six
hours, and assistance obtained.
Mrs. Helmuth is fond of art in all forms,
especially paintings. Also of old china,
and is extremely proficient in embroidery.
She and her husband were connected with
the St. Louis Sanitary Fair Commission,
and had charge of the Art Department.
Became a member of Sorosis in February
1876, not many years after it was founded,
and held various offices. Although her
first election to the presidency was opposed
by some her re-election was unanimous, as
she had won the confidence of all during
the administration of her first term. She
served also on the Executive Committee
many terms.
In 1894 was elected vice-president of the
New York State Federation of Women’s
Clubs, acting for one year of her term in 
the place of the president, during the ill-
ness of that officer. Was then elected
President in 1896-98, and re elected 1898-
1900, thus serving as President of that
body longer than any one else. Upon the
expiration of her term of office she was, on
November 19, 1900, presented with a
loving cup by the clubs over whom she
had for so long, as well as so gracefully
and acceptably presided, the presentation
taking place at the close of the convention
in the Assembly Chamber in the Capital at
Albany, where the sessions had been held
A former associate officer writes of her:
“She has great skill in conducting large
meetings as a presiding officer of exper-
ience and ability. In the chair she is just
and impartial, with a ready wit, even
temper and enduring physique, which en- 
able her at all times to hold her h[-]use well
in hand. The distinguishing point of the
large conventions over which she has pre-
sided as State President is the apparent
ease with which she maintained order and
peace often in the face of unpromising pos-
sibilities. By her work in the chair she
turned the New York State Federation
from a small and imperfectly bound organ-
ization, with many factions, into a close-
knit whole of united mind. The loving
cup was the recognition of the Federation
of these facts.”
Mrs Helmuth has been elected honorary
member of many organizations both in
this country and in Europe. One club of
which she is a member is composed entire-
ly of the wives of physicians. She has
been presented from time to time with
seventy-nine badges, most of them by
clubs throughout the city and state
of New York, in token of the regard in
which she is held.
In 1901 she accepted the chairmanship
of the Industrial School Committee, the
welfare of which she has much at heart, as
it has for its object to provide a non-sec-
tarian school where girls may receive
training necessary to become self-support-
ing in occupations other than those
afforded by stores, etc. 
Also in 1901 she founded in New York
City the “West Point Chapter of the


Daughters of the American Revolution.” 
	At the present time she is the president
of the National Council of Women.—Club
Bulletin.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column  1]
	THE IMPERIAL PALACE IN BERLIN
	AND OTHER POINTS OF INTEREST.
	The Dome Building faces on one side
the Imperial Palace and on the other
the Royal Museum. It has a large centre
dome and a smaller one on each corner.
At the back of the building flows the river 
Spree. Large gold crosses are placed on 
the center of each tower, while two, one on
each side of the main entrance, are sur-
mounted with gold crowns. Much gold is
also glittering from its roof. It is sur-
rounded on three sides by a lovely park,
where two fountains are constantly throw-
ing their silvery sprays.
	When completed it will be one of the
most costly buildings in the world, nothing
but rock inside and out, with rare statuary
and rich surroundings. Also statuary sur-
mounted by gold crosses is to adorn each en
trance.
	Out through the city gates, where on the
city side the Kaiser is met when he returns,
by the city officials, who with great pomp
welcome him through the gates—we pass
on to see the
	PARLIAMENT BUILDING. 
	This is a magnificent and costly struc-
ture, (said to have cost five millions of dol-
lars.) On its roof, in the centre, is a gold
dome, while each corner is raised in an
elaborate square tower. Here meet the
law-makers of the nation. There are
many rooms, large and richly ornamented,
designated to the different departments of
government.
	The commissioners room has a long
table with chairs on either side with plain
oak ceiling and floor.
	The walking hall is spacious. Here the
august law-makers take a walk when law-
making becomes wearisome. It is a very
imposing room with seats on the sides and
marble floor with ceiling arched and costly.
Through a number of ante-rooms, then
comes a beautiful hall of stucco work with
seats of red cloth, the stucco work making
a magnificent background for each.
Bronze statues of former lawmakers are
here and there through the building.
Up stairs we reach the room where the
delegates assemble, and is known as the
		REICHSTAG.
	The seats number about four hundred,
the name of the owner on the back of each.
The ceiling is a large skylight of a pearl
grey color, with a border of red and vari-
egated colors. The light is clear that shines
through this glass. This hall is much the
shape of a theatre, the seats ranging down
as in the parquette. The speaker’s stand is
elevated, the stenographer’s table under-
neath and a private desk. Elevated still
higher is the president’s chair, which is
beautiful. Of course we had to sit in the
chair and imagine we were the president of
the famous Reichstag, then stand in the
speaker’s stand and think we were address-
ing the House, first the Right and then the
Left. Then to try the member’s seats,
finding them quite comfortable, although
we think they sometimes must be full of
thorns.

[Column 2]
This is an interesting room, and here we
remain some time. One thinks of the
stormy sessions often held here, sometimes
even disgraceful scenes occurring, when
statesmen war with statesmen, some con-
tending for one measure and some for
another.
	Passing up a flight of stairs we reach the
balcony, where a few spectators are some-
times admitted. From this point also
looking downward the hall has the appear-
ance of a very pretty theatre, if the Presi-
dent’s and Speaker’s stands were only a
stage.
	Through cloak rooms and other beautiful
halls with crimson carpets on hall and
stairs nearly an inch thick, which look so
beautiful and rich on the white marble
floors.
	Descending the stairs again, more costly
statuary and busts—we are informed that
these are the spirits of former legislators,
who have done with the laws of this life,
but as these people suppose, they still look
after the affairs with which they were
formerly associated, advising justice, right-
eousness, truth and fidelity.
	This is a noble building, solid as though
hewn in the rock itself. Well may
Germany be proud of its Parliament
House where meets the Reichstag.
	Opposite another entrance to the palace
is a fine monument of Emperor Frederick
William III. This also faces the Royal
Museum and is situated in a lovely park.
	The Emperor is mounted on a horse,
while on the upper part of the pedestal are
statues and figures that represent educa-
tion and the different trades O, these
lovely parks ! Every available spot has a
few trees, a fountain and a monument,
with seats here and there where the weary
may rest.
	Another fountain called the Castle
fountain is in front of another entrance to the
palace, and is the most wonderful yet seen.
Old Neptune of huge dimensions is seated
or reclining on a high pedestal, reaching
out with curious statuary beneath it, while
on the sides, out in the lake made by the
water, serpents send streams of water all
over it. The fountain has a stone casing
of curious design with four female figures
reclining upon it, back of whom other
streams of water pour their volume over
this god of the sea, who holds an immense
spear in his hand.
	By some this is supposed to be the god
of the Rhine. The street here is about
four hundred feet wide with the fountain
near its centre.
	Immediately opposite the palace are the
Imperial stables, a fine building of white
stone. At either end, in a deep recess, is
statuary showing some wonderful feats that
man and the horse can perform. The
figures of both are very large and fill
the recess. Perhaps they commemorate
some brave achievement in battle, such a
wild look is expressed by the animals. One
would suppose this was a palace instead of
a stable, so beautiful is the building.
	The busses and cars all pass here for
“Under the Linden.’’
				Lydia D. Alder.
	Note—-Shortly after our visit to the Imperial
Palace a dispatch was published in the foreign
papers that some one had informed the authorities 
of France that while passing through the palace
he had seen a portion of the fatal Bordereax papers 
renowned in the tragic, world-famed Dreyfus
case, on a desk in the palace. By order of the
Kaiser it was immediately closed to visitors. It

[Column 3]
is to be regretted, for the State apartments are
gems beyond description and give one an appre-
ciation of what splendor the precious things of the
earth, combined with the experience of man, can
produce.—L. D. A.


VIRGEN CITY CELEBRATION.
	On the 17th of March the Relief Society
of Virgen City gave a grand ball which
was well attended by old and young.
The evening was spent in dancing inter-
spersed with songs, etc., after which a de-
licious luncheon was served and all had an
enjoyable time.
	The program of the day was omited
on account of a general board meeting of
Hurricane Canal, which could not be post-
poned. The ten cent fund has been
promptly attended to and our district
is in a thriving condition under the
general supervision of our beloved presi-
dent, Sariah A. Workman (who has served
us so many years) and Counselors Emma
Hinton and Mary D. Spendlove.
		MARION L. PRATT.


MEDICAL CONGRESS IN NEW YORK.
	The “American Congress of Tuberculo-
sis,” one of the most notable medical
gatherings in the world, convenes in the
Majestic hotel in New York, May 14, 15
and 16, 1902. It includes the Canadies,
United States, South and Central American
States. It will be conducted on the same
lines as the European Congress held in
London, July, 1901, where the leading
physicians, scientists, statesmen and phil-
anthropists of Europe assembled.
	One of the leading questions coming be-
fore the Congress will be the establishment
of State Sanatariums for hygienic treatment
of tuberculous patients. One-fifth of all
deaths occur from this cause, and through-
out Europe where Sanatariums have been
established the death role has been reduced
one-half.
	In addition to the president, Hon. Henry
D. Holten of Vermont, there are seventy-
five vice-presidents and honorary vice-
presidents. The honorary vice-presidents
are selected from the governors of states
and presidents of the South and Central
American States.
	A museum has been established and will
be open during the Congress—collections
of drugs, photographs of sanitary districts,
biological specimens, etc, 
	Governor Heber M. Wells, honorary
vice-president for Utah, has appointed
delegates who will attend the coming
session, and Dr. Martha Hughes Cannon,
who was appointed vice-president for Utah
last November, contributes to the Museum
a fine collection of photographic views of
sanitary districts, health resorts, bathing
places and general points of interest in and
around Salt Lake City, statistical and
meteorological rep[-]rts of the State and a
paper on climatic influences in Utah.
	Considering educational work has al-
ready been done in Utah along this line, it
is befitting Utah as an equal suffrage state,
that so far she is the only one to which the
courtesy of a vice-president has heen ex-
tended to a woman.


A replice of the statue of LaFayette erec-
ted in Paris and paid for by American
school children, is to be presented to the
city of Washington.


Woman's Exponent.


[Column 1]
TO THE SISTERS.
L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.
You who are stationed at the outer ports
	Of Zion’s bulwarks, laboring with your might,
Should have some glimpses of her inner courts,
And her “First Lady” calls on me to write.

It is so sweet and beautiful to hear
	Inspired souls their holy thoughts rehearse,
That I will try to give you, sisters dear,
	A few of our new President’s in verse.
  
SOME OF SISTER BATHSHEBA'S WORDS. 
[lN SUBSTANCE.]

When our beloved Zina died,
	And we were headless left,
Our General Board disorganized,
	I felt indeed bereft.

I felt, a younger woman then,
	Than we who long had stood,
Should be appointed at the head,
	To bring the utmost good.

When the October Conference closed,
	With no appointments made,
I could but feel our cause was thrown
	A little in the shade.

As though our brethren, at the head,
	Had such great works on hand,
It seemed but small account that ours
	Should still unsettled stand.

But one bright morn, I had a dream;
	I saw a ladder rise,
In sections, one, two, three and more,
	Shoot upward towards the skies.

The Spirit whispered as I gazed
	With some anxiety,
“This represents your Woman’s work,
	The Relief Society.”

Yes, Emma and Eliza, too,
	And Zina all have wrought;
And others now must follow on—
	But who, and when? I thought.

Then stood the Prophet Joseph there,
	Intently watching all;
“Oh, well,” I thought. “Our work is safe—
	He will not see it fall !”

Yes, ’twas the Prophet Joseph Smith,
	So noble, grand and true;
Just as he organized us first,
In beautiful Nauvoo.

The very clothing which he wore,
	As oft we saw him dressed;
His hat was off, a light gray coat,
	And very pale buff vest.

To see him thus, so natural stand,
	With face and form to guide,
Such joyous reverence inspired,
	My soul was satisfied.

I thought within myself. “No more
	I’ll deem the brethren slow;
But wait the Lord's own time and way,
	For He and Joseph know.”

“A younger sister” then stood near,
	Whose dear and well known face
I noticed, thinking, she, perhaps,
	Will fill that vacant place.

I wakened with a pleasant thrill,
	And heart so glad arid light.
That I could only feel assured
	All things would turn out right.

November Tenth, that grand, great day,
	When all the Church was called
To vote that its new Presidents
	Might rightly be installed.

When Joseph F., the nephew of
The Prophet, Joseph First,
Arose and spoke that day, what power
	Forth from his presence burst ! 

So much a kin his spirit seemed
	To that his uncle bore,
The Saints might almost feel the First
	Was in their midst once more.

And lo, a perfect unity
	Throughout the Church was shown—
Four hundred thousand souls as one!
Not oft such strength is known.

[Column 2]
When the First Presidency all,
	Thus fully were sustained,
To make the work complete, it seemed
	That something still remained.

When Joseph in his majesty
	Stood up and spoke my name,
And then the others following,
	And votes were cast the same;

That like the brethren, we were thus
	Empowered to preside;
With gratitude and love, my soul
	Was more than satisfied.

And as a grateful, clinging child 
	Her father would caress,
I could have clung to Joseph then.
	In trustful tenderness.

May all our Presidents of Stakes,
And Bishops note this case, 
And seek to honor and uphold
	Each sister in her place. 

Her place may every sister know,
	And strive the same to fill
With that specific grace which comes
	From doing Father’s will,

May perfect unity extend,
	Our power for good increase,
In works of charity and love,
	Humility and peace.

Not crowding, but with helpful zeal,
	Each cheerfully be found
Climbing the ‘ladder,” until all
	Shall gain the topmost round.


YELLOW, PURPLE, WHITE.
LIBERTY, UNITY, FRATERNITY—PEACE
		COLORS DESIGNATED BY THE
			COMMITTEE.
	As decorations for the peace meetings
which are to be held on Thursday, May
15, the following suggestions are offered:
	Flags may be used in every available
space—the flag of our own country and
the flags of any and all countries which
can be had or can be made of simple
materials at hand. In a particularly
prominent place should hang the peace
flag, which can be made by any one with-
out much difficulty from simple materials.
It is a tri-color, emblematic of liberty, unity
and fraternity. Yellow is next to the
flagstaff (which is blue) purple in the centre
and then white at the end The motto,
“Pro concordia labor,’’ (we work for peace)
may be placed upon the flag; also an olive
branch. Over the flag sheathed swords
might be hung as an additional symbol of
peace. Flowers and the colors used in the
peace flag would be suitable for decoration.
	Any picture suggestive of peace would
make appropriate decorations; as, for ex-
ample, the picture of Wm. Penn’s treaty
with the Indians or the picture of Corn-
wallis surrendering at Yorktown.
	The committee in charge of the various
meetings will know best what they have
at their disposal with which to decorate,
and this matter must be left largely to
their discretion, but the foregoing sugges-
tions may be of service to those who are in
doubt how to proceed.
		ISABEL M. W. SEARS,
		MARY A. H. CANNON.


LYMAN CELEBRATION.
	In commemoration of the sixtieth anni-
versary of the organization of the Relief
Society in Nauvoo by the Prophet Joseph
Smith.      The Lyman Ward was newly or-
ganized March 2, 1902, this being the first
celebration in the new ward, and we are
pleased to say it was a grand success.   A


large congregation attended the services,
which commenced at 10 a. m., and the fol-
lowing program was rendered in a very
creditable manner.
Song, Sister Chloe Robison and com-
pany. Historical sketch of the Relief
Society from its first organization up to the
present time, Sister Elizabeth Atkins.
Song, Sister Alice Simmons and company.
Recitation, Sister Dora Robison. 	Song,
Sister Phoebe Richens and others. Pioneer
Sketch, Sister Mary Robison, a pioneer.
Song, Brother and Sister Randall. Read-
ing, Sister Annie Galbraith. 	Song,
Brother O. G. Arnold. 	Remarks by
Brother Thomas Atkins.
The congregational singing was con-
ducted by Brother John Blackburn and
Brother David Robison officiated as chap-
lain. At the close of the exercises all par-
took of an excellent dinner prepared by the
sisters, after which the house was cleared
and the children enjoyed themselves in a
dance the remaining part of the afternoon.
The day closed with a grand ball in the 
Lyman Hall in the evening.
MARUETHA ATKINSON.


RED CROSS MEETS.
	The executive committee of the Red
Cross met at the state department today,
May 13. There were present Gen. John
M. Wilson, vice-president William F.
Michael, Mrs. John A. Logan, Miss Mabel
Bowman, Mrs. Warner, Mrs. Clara Sarah
Spencer and Secretary Briggs Miss Clara
Barton, the president is now en route for
St. Petersburg as a delegate to the Red
Cross convention there.
	After conferences with Secretary Hay
and Secretary Root, a delegation went
to the White House and conferred with
President Roosevelt, with the result that
the following appeal was issued tonight by
Vice-President Wilson.
RED CROSS APPEAL.
	The National American Red Cross ap-
peals to the people of the United States to
send money and supplies in aid of the
suffers at Martinque and St. Vincent. The
unparalleled calamity needs no words of
eloquence to arouse the active aid and
sympathy of our people. We therefore ask
you to act promptly and generously.
Money and supplies can be sent to Cornel-
ius Bliss of New York City, or money may
be sent direct to W. J. Flather, the treasur-
er of the American National Red Cross
Association, at Riggs bank, Washington.
All such contributions, whether in money
or supplies, intended for the Red Cross
should be so marked.
					John M. Wilson.
First Vice-President American National
	Red Cross.
	Dr. Richard Klopsch, proprietor of the
Christian Herald, New York, called at the
war department today offering to furnish
fifty nurses, thirty male and twenty female,
and 1,000 barrels of flour for the stricken
islands and to be contributed by the
Christian Herald.


The Empress of Japan takes a great in-
terest in all that concerns the nation, from
the rice crops upward and downward. The
Empress is said to have a talent for liter-
ature and to write beautiful poetry. A
poem of hers set to music is sung in the
schools all over the land.


108					Woman's Exponent

Woman's Exponent.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. ,to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday. 
Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						Salt Lake City, Utah
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter. 

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, May 15, 1902.


[Column 1]
THIRTY VOLUMES.
	Perhaps there are only a few of our read-
ers who realize that it is now thirty years
since this little paper, the Woman’s
Exponent, first made its exit into the
world of thought and action. This num-
ber closes the thirtieth volume, and all
who are interested in the movement for
woman’s advancement and enfranchisement
cannot help thinking, how much they are
indebted to this little organ of ours for the
information and intelligence which has
been spread through its columns from time
to time ever since its first issue on the first
day of June, 1872.
	The women of Utah were among the
first to have a woman’s paper; at that time
there were but very few in the United
States and almost none elsewhere.
	The Woman’s Journal of Boston is only
three years and a half older, and is the one
woman’s paper which has continued dur-
ing all that period regularly.
	The Woman's Tribune, of Washington,
D. C., is a number of years behind the
“Exponent.”
	It really seems strange that the sisters
who ought to be deeply interested in the
“Exponent” should be apparently so
indifferent to its interest. It is impossible
to publish papers or books without money.
Recently we heard the editors of the
Woman’s Journal say they had been
obliged to put four thousand dollars more
into the Journal to help it along. There
have been before gifts made to that publi-
cation from rich people, which have helped
very materially. The Woman’s Journal
has an immense circulation because it is
non-sectarian and is maintained along such
lines as to make it very popular; whereas
the Womans Exponent is the organ of
our Latter-day Saint women and distinc-
tively the expression of women of our faith,
which has always been unpopular. Never-
theless our women have broad views on
general questions, such as suffrage and
higher education, yet the very fact that it
is a “Mormon” woman’s paper would
limit its circulation outside in the world;
consequently it must depend entirely upon
the patronage of our own people. Our
sisters should rally to its support and
help to make it a more desirable medium
of communication than it ever has been in
the past. It would be an easy matter if
the Relief Society officers everywhere
would advocate it earnestly; for the Relief
Society is the largest and strongest organ-
sation we have, and this is the paper that

[Column 2]
contains the general information needed
for their work. Whenever any celebration
is to be held among the women of Zion,
such as the anniversary of the first organ-
zation orPeace demonstrations,and the like,
then the “Exponent” is called in ques-
tion immediately. Silk culture, Fairs,
Bazars and the Suffrage cause, and in fact,
all progressive movements, have been pro-
moted through its pages. The sisters
scarcely comprehend what this little paper
has done for them during the last thirty
years; outside among the branches of the
Church in other countries and in places re-
mote it has rendered good service in the
cause of truth as well as in helping along
the organizations.
	Biographical sketches of the lives of
many of our good sisters have been pub-
lished from time to time, and the deaths of
hundreds whose good works have been
made known and their names thus perpetu-
ated. It has contained many testimonies
of the Gospel and its benefits and a large
number of minutes of the meetings and
conferences in the different Stakes of Zion
and in other parts of the world. All the
General Conferences of the Relief Society
have been published, and in fact, it is a
record of woman’s work and particularly of
the Relief Society.
	If the sisters could realize the importance
of having a paper of their own and the
prestige it gives to their work, surely they
would bestir themselves to obtain sub-
scriptions and make the paper so prosper-
ous that there could be no possible reason
for complaint as to irregularity.
	Let us hope for a more hopeful outlook
in the coming time so that such improve-
ments may be made as will keep pace with
the more modern times and better supply
the needs of the women now engaged in
the larger work of practical progression
and social uplifting of the masses of the
people, who are looking for light, knowl-
edge and wisdom that may help them in
their homes and to rear their families in
righteousness.


[Column 1]
FOUR SCORE YEARS.
	A happy anniversary celebration was
commemorated on Saturday, May 3, 1902,
in the handsome old parlors at the historic
Bee Hive House, the occasion being the
eightieth birthday anniversary of Sister
Bathsheba W. Smith, one of the most
noble mothers in Israel in this dispensa-
tion of the fulness of times in which many
noble women, as well as distinguished men
have taken part.
	Sister Smith occupies at the present time
the highest place of honor among the
Latter-day Saint women, president of the
Relief Society of the Church of Latter-day
Saints in all the world. It is therefore
most appropriate her name should be
known among our people, and honors ac-
corded her befitting the position she holds.
Aside from this she is greatly beloved for
her many virtues, integrity to the Gospel,
her faithfulness to its principles and her
many good works and deeds of mercy and
of love.
	A hundred or more invited guests as-
sembled about two or three in the after-
noon and offered congratulations, wishing
many happy returns of the day, and bring-
ing flowers and other gifts. A fine gold
watch chain was presented to her by the
sisters who work in the Temple. President

[Column 2]
Joseph F. Smith and his Counselors were
present, with members of their families,
also Bishop Wm. B. Preston and wife;
Patriarch John Smith and wife; Apostle
John Henry Smith and wife; Apostle
Hyrum M. Smith and wife; and some of
Sister Smith’s dearest friends, veteran
sisters among whom she has labored many
years; among these were Sisters M. Isa-
bella Horne and Jane S. Richards also
Sister Lucy W. Kimball and others.
	Sisters Hannah and Susan Smith, of her
husband’s family, and her own daughter
and husband, Brother and Sister Clarence
Merrill, with a number of granddaughters
and grandsons, their children and some
great grandchildren.
	A delicious feast was partaken of spread
upon small tables seating three or four
guests, and a genuine feeling of good
fellowship pervaded the happy groups.
President Joseph F. Smith pronounced the
blessing.
	After the supper tables were cleared
away there was a sort of impromptu pro-
gram of speeches and recitations; many of
the sisters who were called spoke in the
highest terms of praise of the guest of the
occasion, and of her labors in the family,
the home and the Church. President
Smith conducted the exercises and called
upon most of those present to express
themselves and all seemed to enter into
and partake of the goodly spirit and feeling
of the assembly. There was also some piano
music and singing, one or two humorous
recitations and sufficient variety to make the
time enjoyable.
	The EXPONENT adds its warmest con-
gratulations and good wishes, and hopes
and trusts Sister Bathsheba’s life may be
prolonged, until she is satisfied with her
mission here upon earth, and may the
many blessings she has bestowed upon
her fellow laborers be multiplied upon her
posterity, and her living example of faith-
fulness inspire not her children alone, but
all the youth of Israel to strive for right-
eousness and to be valiant for the truth.
	In thinking of Sister Smith one cannot
but recall the poet’s words:
	"Touch us gently, Time !
	Let us glide adown thy stream
	Gently, as we sometimes glide.
	Through a quiet dream.

	Humble voyagers are we
	O’er life’s dim unsounded sea,
	Seeking only some calm clime,
	Touch us gently, gentle Time.”

	Surely time has touched Sister Smith
gently, and yet her life has not been a
summer dream, but full of changes, rich
with experience from which she has gath-
ered much wisdom and happiness.


DISTINGUISHED WOMEN.
	Tuesday, May 13, the New York dele-
gation of women who had been in Los
Angeles attending the Biennial of the
Federation of Clubs, paid a flying visit to
Salt Lake City on their homeward trip.
	Arrangements had been made before-
hand to entertain them by committees ap-
pointed from the two great organizations of
women, viz., the Relief Society and Y. L.
N. M. I. A., and the plans formulated
were carried out very successfully, except
that the R. R. train was two hours late.
However they were met at the station by a
number of ladies in carriages and escorted
to the Tabernacle and listened to the Re-


cital given in their honor, Professor J. J.
McClellan organist. The music rendered
included Guilmont’s “Third Organ Sona-
ta,” the popular “Baccherini Minuet,”
Mendelssohn’s “SpringSong,” “Schubert’s
Litany,” Batiste’s “Communion in G” and
the overture to Lohengrin. These were
all given in the most excellent style and
raptuiously received. There were also
two celebrated vocalists, Miss Emma Lucy
Gates and Mr. Heber S. Goddard.
	Miss Gates sang the “Ave Maria” from
the “Cavaleria Rusticana,” and responded
to an encore with “Sing Sweet Bird.”
Mr. Goddard sang, in his very best style,
Nevin’s “Divine Redeemer.”
	The ride to Saltair was the next part of
the program fcr the entertainment of the
celebrated guests. At 2:15 the party were
aboard the train and headed for Saltair, a
very cheerful company chatting and mak-
ing acquaintance with the visitors. There
were many more of the strangers than of
the Salt Lake people; among these, how-
ever, were President Brigham Young and
wife and Attorney General Breeden and
wife, also President Bathsheba W. Smith
and Mrs. Joseph F. Smith, wife of the
President of the Church, and members of
the General Board of the Relief Society
and of the Y. L. N. M. I. A. Mrs. Wm.
Tod Helmuth, President of the National
Council of Women, Mrs.T.St.John’sGaffney
Honorary President of the National Council
of Women, and her daughter, Jayta
Humphreys, and their special friends were
the principal members of the party, for
whom we had arranged, but we were
very pleased indeed to meet the newly
elected President of the General Federation
Mrs. Denison, of New York, and also Mrs.
Cynthia W. Alden, President-General of the
Sunshine Society, was with the party, and
was gladly welcomed by us. A few of the
ladies enjoyed a bath in the Lake, though
the temperature was very cold. The other
members of the party walked about talking
and admiring the beautiful scenery until
the call for train.
	In the evening an elaborate reception
was held at the residence of Mr. and Mrs.
Alonzo E. Hyde to which all the ladies were
invited. The parlors and dining room
were profusely though tastefully decorated
with flowers and trailing vines, lovely
lilacs, white and lavender, and on the
table were delicate vases filled with carna-
tions, adding beauty and brilliancy to the
picture. The young girls who served the
ces and cake were daintily attired in light
fabrics and made their part of the program
charmingly interesting. Mrs. Helmuth
and Mrs. Gaffney stood to receive the entire
evening with Mrs. Hyde, the hostess, and
Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith, Mrs. E. B.
Wells, Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall and Mrs.
Susa Young Gates. The guests were
President Joseph F. Smith and wife, also
President Anthon H. Lund, Apostle John
Henry Smith and Apostle Heber J. Grant
and wife, Secretary Hammond and wife
and other noted people of the city. The
ladies left early in order to take the train.
	Since then news has reached here that
Dr. Wm. Tod Helmuth died suddenly in
New York City while his wife was en route
the telegram reaching Mrs. Helmuth at
Denver. We extend to Mrs. Helmuth our
most sincere sympathy in her sad bereave-
ment and pray the Lord to bless and com-
fort her and give her strength to endure
this trying ordeal.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
		CHICAGO SWEAT SHOPS.
The most thorough investigation ever
made of the “sweatshops” of Chicago has
been completed under the auspices of the
University of Chicago The department
of sociology assigned Miss Nellie Mason
Auten, a graduate student, to the task,
and after many months of labor she has
made a remarkably thorough report on the
conditions of the men and women in the
sweatshops of the garment trade in
Chicago, and summarizing clearly the
prices paid by contractors and wholesale
dealers. One of her most startling state-
ments is that wages of these employees are
steadily falling.
	Miss Auten is a graduate of Wellesley
College, who came to Chicago to carry on
her studies in economics and sociology, and
her interest in vital questions concerning
industrial conditions led her to consent to
undertake a personal investigation of the
sweatshops, where is carried on the mak-
ing of boys’ and mens’ suits, cloaks and
other garments. Miss Auten says that she
recognizes the ethical questions involved
in the situation, but that she has presented
visible conditions rather than any solution
of the problem, and it is her presentation
of the subject which makes her work of
value to society, and especially to Chicago.
	“Sweating” is the unpleasantly sugges-
tive term applied to the work done for
some tailor or wholesaler under conditions
which allow a maximum amount of work
per day to be performed for a minimum
wage, and under which the ordinary rules
of health and comfort are disregarded.
And “sweatshops” are usually tenement
houses, kitchens or bedrooms “in which
the head of the family employs outsiders.”
Miss Auten says that “in Chicago at the
present time conditions are not so bad as
they might be,” and then she goes on to
say that many of the sweatshops are in
the back tenements or stables, where there
is practically no yard space and no possi-
bility of sunshine or fresh air. In one case
which Miss Auten discovered on the
Northwest Side there was “a court fifteen
or twenty feet square surrounded on all
sides by buildings four stories high. Heaps
of dirty snow lay massed on the ground,
too much shut off from the sun to melt and
disappear. The only entrance to the court
was by narrow sidewalks along the front ten-
ement. The narrow spaces between the
four buildings only served to make the court
more dismal. One felt almost as if shut
up in some dungeon of an earlier age, and
breathed a sigh of relief on returning to the
freer air and outlook of the street.”
	Seldom did she find proper sanitary ac-
commodations, and often in the coldest
weather, she found the rooms stiflingly
close but entirely unheated. Some of the
shops are in basements, where the evils are
even more exaggerated because of the bad
air and worse darkness.
		IN NATIONAL GROUPS.
	The garment trade is divided between
five nationalities—the Italians, Scandi-
navians, Bohemians, Jews and Poles—and
each nationality has its own territory and
usually its own peculiar development of
the sweating system.
	The Italians stand lowest in the scale of
living and scale of wages they are “more
squalid and filthy and more crowded than
any of the other nationalities.” In 1897
there were reported to be 6,773 Italians in

[Column 2]
Chicago, and about three per cent worked
at the garment trade under the most ter-
rible conditions. And at that time thirty
were reported to come to their work from
homes where there had been contagious
diseases—smallpox and diphtheria. The
garments they were making were sent as
usual to wholesale dealers and department
stores. Nearly three-fourths of these
Italians were employed only part of the
year, the average time of employment
being about thirty-one weeks out of the
fifty-two. And the number of hours’
work per day varied from eight to sixteen.
The rate of pay per hour is something un-
believable Many worked for five cents an
hour and never was the rate higher than
twenty five cents an hour.
		SEVEN CENTS A DAY.
	One Italian woman worked ten hours a
day, six days in the week, and made 40
cents per week (a rate of two-thirds of a
cent an hour) and she could make $21 a
year. Another woman, a pants finisher
worked eleven hours per day and made 30
cents a week. Many of the workers made
less than a dollar a week, many more were
earning less than $100 a year, and in many
families the whole income was from $100
to $200.
	The Swedes in the garment trade live,
for the most part, on the North Side; and
conditions are not so extreme because of
the unions, which help to keep up the
wages. Miss Auten reviews the demand
made by the union—a nine hour day; the
Saturday half holiday in July and August;
a fixed scale of wages for piece work or
for work by the week ($8 or $10 for women
and $12 or $15 for pressers and hand-
sewers.) These demands were granted for
the year March 1, 1900 to March 1, 1901.
	The Custom Vest Tailor’s Protective
Association has a membership of thirty
contractors and they do not employ any
non-union men. These contractors or
middlemen, are in turn the employees of
wholesalers and department store owners, as
well as of the custom tailors, and last
winter the contractors sent a petition to
their employers asking a rise in the prices
paid for vests, because of the rise in the
price of silk and because of the demands
made upon them in turn by their em-
ployees. The petition was granted and
everything ran smoothly.
	Miss Auten visited a cooperative tailor
shop, where several tailors shared in the
expenses, though each one was working for
a different merchant tailor. She says, each
one pays $3 a month rent, and about $1 a
week for silk, car fare and other incidentals.
*   *   * In the busy months each man
makes two coats a week by working from
twelve to sixteen hours a day, and earns
from $8 to $13 a week. One of them, a
Finlander, said it was not unusual for a
man to work all night to fill a special
order. The eyes of three of the six men
in the shop were much inflamed and their
backs were bent.”
	The custom and journeymen tailors as a
rule work in their own homes and provide
their machines.
	The Bohemians are probably second to
the Swedes. They live in the district
bounded on the south and west by Eigh-
teenth Street and Blue Island Avenue—the
did “Sixth Ward.” Ninety-five per cent
of the shops front on the alley, without
light in the back, and many are over or


[Column 1]
near stables. The Bohemians make coats,
pants and overcoats. Foot power machines
are used and the work is reported as pretty
steady. The wages range from $1 to $12
a week—few of the operators, however,
making as much as $12. The Bohemians
stand by their union and are soberly in-
dustrious.
	The condition of the Jews, who live in
the district bounded by Polk and Fifteenth
streets, Stewart and Blue Island Avenue,
are to all appearances worse than the
Bohemians. They are crowded and dirty
and work day and night.
	A step lower than the Jews are the
Poles who are scattered throughout the
city. The average wage of the machine
operators among the Poles was $8 the hand
workers, $4; the pressers $9.75; and the
home finishers, 3.25

WAGES FALLING STEADILY.
	Miss Auten has taken up the change in
wages and prices during the last few years
and she has found it worthy a detailed re-
port. For instance, a contractor gets 20
cents for a child’s coat, and out of the
amount he must pay for the making and
get his profit! For a coat he gets 80 cents
where five years ago he received $1.25 and
ten years ago as much as $1 50; for cloaks
and suits he gets from $1 to $1.40. One con-
tractor gets eight cents a pair for knee pants,
and that is less than last year. And yet at
these prices the contractors in many cases
make a good living without much effort.
Prices in coats are one-half of what they
were a few years ago, and the Bohemian
coat makers find the prices still slipping.
	Miss Auten supplemented her personal
investigation by a careful study of the
immediate causes and also by a study of
the legislative position of Illinois and work
done by the Consumers’ league and kindred
organizations. The united Hebrew Chari-
ities has offered some interesting statistics.
About 6 per cent of the 1,918 cases studied
in 1898 were cases of want among sweat-
shop workers, and 8 per cent of the men
who applied for work at the employment
bureau were garment workers.
	The most generally recognized causes of
the abuses and maladjustments in these in-
dustries, Miss Auten says, are the absence
of American ideas and sympathies—a
statement which she explains by saying
that when the immigrants come from the
crowded labor markets of Europe they
have no money to get farther than New
York and their necessity makes it easy for
American employers to get their work at
the lowest price, especially as they crowd
the labor market of New York.
	She speaks, too, of the illiteracy not only
in English but in their native languages.
This illiteracy is undoubtedly due to the
guiding principles of the countries from
which they come, whereby they are kept
in ignorance because of their economic de-
pendence. Miss Auten does not discuss
the larger economical phases except where
she says: “The sweating system surely
works in two directions: If it is true that
the people are poor because their wages are
low, it is equally true that their wages are
low because they are poor.”

UNCERTAIN SEASONS.
“Another set of causes has its rise in the
character of the industry. The garment
trades are seasonable industries—that is,
there are certain months in the year when a

[Column 2]
great deal of work must be done and other
months in which there is almost no work.
This alternate rush and quiet are, in turn,
due to the change in fashions, which can
best be explained by the economic pressure
on competing dry goods and tailoring
establishments which have to bring about
an artificial desire for change in clothes in
order to stimulate trade. The most de-
plorable result of this uncertain activity is
found in the long hours of the tailor and
the excessive haste of the home finisher,
who knows that if he or she does not get
the finished garments back to the contrac-
tor on time there will be no work forth-
coming for the future—for there are always
men and women ready to step in and
promise punctuality.
	Still another cause is the minute division
of labor; one man sews seams, another
makes buttonholes, etc , and none of the
work takes long to learn. Therefore a
change of employees is made easy for the
contractor who, when asked for higher
wages, says: “Go, if you please; I can find
some one else who will gladly work for
less.” And all that is needed in this industry
is “a small room, a few sewing machines
and people.
	Miss Auten classes as a fourth set of
causes the attitude of manufacturer, con-
tractor, landlord and consumer. “They
all,” she says, “to a greater or less degree
have a happy, or rather unhappy, feeling
of irresponsibility, and often a sordid de
sire for individual profit.” The manu-
facturer feels it no affair of his how the
work is done. The contractor is pressed
to keep his contracts and feels no interest
in the conditions under which his employ-
ees work. The landlord is content to get
the most rent he can without asking ques-
tions. The consumer is always ready for
bargains. And so it is the man, unedu-
cated. perhaps unskilled, has to say: “Yes,
I must keep on working, even though my
back is breaking and my eyes will scarcely
stay open, for my wife and the little ones
must have bread, and I must work now if
it kills, for soon there will be no work to
do.” And there are 35,853 such workers
in the garment trades in Chicago.

HOPE IN FACTORIES.
	Miss Auten looks forward to a “gradual
displacement of the small shop and the
system of home work by the factory sys-
tem.” However, such a displacement
does not seem imminent, for if the work
can be done at present on the present basis
of low wages, and no commensurable ex-
pense—outside of rents and sewing mach
ines—it would hardly be considered a good
business move to make a change. 
	Besides laying stress on the improved
conditions which large factories would
make possible, Miss Auten recommends an
education of the classes of workers in
cleanliness and ventilation. When work-
ing twelve and sixteen hours a day and
keeping windows closed to save coal they
can hardly be expected to feel much inter-
est in their health or appearance. She also
recommends the organization of unions
wherever practicable.
	In considering how these changes are to
be brought about Miss Auten mentions the
possibility of federal legislation because of
the widespread character of the industry.
There are only twelve or fifteen states
which have any factory legislation and
what there is, is entirely inadequate to the

[Column 3]
conditions. She thinks that restriction of
immigration might well be the first measure
undertaken.
	“Illinois passed her first factory in-
spection laws in 1893. They provide that
all garments shall not be manufactured in
living rooms, except by members of the
immediate families; that all shops shall be
kept clean and free from vermin and con-
tagion.” Besides they provided for the
destruction of clothing found where there
was contagion, that no child under 14
should be employed; that affidavits for any
child between 14 and 16 must be signed by
parent or guardian; and that women could
not be employed more than eight hours a
day. Illinois has only a small force of
eleven factory inspectors, and the open
violation of these legislative enactments is
most common. The appropriation in
llinois in 1897 was $15,000--one-fourth of
what New York appropriates, and less
than one-sixth of what Massachusetts has.

SOCIALISM AS A REMEDY.
	After suggesting several other palliatives
Miss Auten says: “Closely related with
those who expect much from organization
of the workers are those who feel that the
whole existing order of society is unjust,
and that the remedy is socialism, a state of
society in which each man shall have
just what he produces, no more, no less.
It is undoubtedly true that at present there
is a class who do little or nothing to add to
the sum total of the world’s goods and yet
who have most. It is also true that many
of those who work hardest have least.
Something is wrong if these conditions can
exist, and whether or not the solution lies
in the inauguration of the socialistic state
it is a serious question whether, if it is
true that each person has a ‘right to be
himself such as he is,’ he has not also the
right to have undiminished that which he
produces.” However, Miss Auten does
not wish to be regarded as desiring a
“violent subversion of existing society,”
but rather urges that all concerned---manu-
facturer, contractor, distributor and con-
sumer---should be made to feel their re-
sponsibility. She does not point out how
this may be done, but she is hopeful that
through such organizations as the Con-
sumers’ League, through assimilation and
education of the workers, and a general
raising of ethical standards much might be
accomplished.
	Miss Auten’s report is to be published in
the American Journal of Sociology, issued
by the University of Chicago, and the
faculty are confident it will attract wide
attention from students of sociology.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MEETING OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMIT-
TEE OF THE INTERNATIONAL
COUNCIL OF WOMEN.
To be held at Copenhagen Denmark, probably
on July 10 and 11, 1902.
AGENDA.
Reading, correction and approval of
	minutes of last meeting.
Correspondence.
Roll call.
Report of Corresponding Secretary.
Report of Treasurer.
Report of Sub-committee on Finance.
	Peace and Arbitration. Laws concern-
	ing the Domestic Relations. Press.
	Council Badges.


Reports from National Councils.
Report of year’s work from the president.
Any business carried over from last year.
New Business.
Election of Patrons.
Permission to be granted to Conveners of
	Standing Committees to attend Execu-
	tive Sessions held prior to the session
	of 1904 without a vote. Proposal to
	form a new Cooperative Committee on
	Internationalism. Recommendation
	that International Societies be allowed
	affiliation with the International Coun-
	cil.
Consideration of the President’s latest
	Memorandum and her Report.
	[From the office of Susa Young Gates,
Chairman Press Committee, National
Council of Women, Provo City, Utah.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


BIOGRAPHY AND RESOLUTIONS.
	Sketch and resolutions of respect to the memory
of Sister Wilmirth Greer East, daughter of N. H.
and Nancy Greer, who after an illness of upwards
of five years passed from this sphere to the “Great
Beyond,” March 31, 1902, at Pima, Arizona.
	Sister East was born in Decalb Co., Georgia,
November 18, 1824. Was baptized a member of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
July 22, 1854, at Fort Sullivan, Texas, and was
married to Edward W. East at the age of fifteen.
She was the mother of eleven children, three of
whom survive her.
	In the early morning of September 11, 1854,
while lying in bed, praying to God for a convinc-
ing testimony for some of her relatives, the
gift of tongues rested upon her. She arose,
walked into the front yard and commenced speak-
ing. Before she had finished talking, which was
about fifteen minutes, many of the neighbors as
well as relatives had assembled and listened
eagerly to the inspired words as they fell from her
lips, she interpreting the same.
	In June, 1855, in company with her husband
and other emigrants she left her home in Texas
for Salt Lake City, arriving there in September of
the same year, where they resided for twenty-two
years, during which time she labored diligently
and faithfully in many positions of trust as a
Relief Society officer.
	Sister East accompanied her husband on a mis-
sion to Texas in 1872, where she bore a strong
testimony of the truth to many who had never be-
fore heard the Gospel.
	Brother East and family moved to Apache Co.,
Arizona, in June, 1877, where she held the re-
sponsible position of Stake president of the Relief
Society until 1882, when she and her family went
to the Gila. Here she was sustained as president
of the Relief Society of the St. Joseph Stake of
Zion when it was first organized in June, 1882,
and worked with undaunted energy for the cause
of truth and righteousness, ever having in mind
the welfare of her sister associates, until in the
winter of 1898 she was, through physical disabili-
ty, unable longer to perform the duties of presi-
dent.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Resolved, That we, her colaborers in the great
work of love, express our appreciation of her
counsel, her example and her love of the divine,
which were manifested so prominently in all her
labors, and which we have enjoyed by our associa-
tion with her.
	That we, the members of the Relief Society of
St. Joseph Stake, emulate her noble traits of
character, of faith and charity, and her devotion
to her religion.
	That we insert a copy of these resolutions in our
records, that one be sent to the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT for publication and that one be placed
in the hands of the bereaved family.
			MARY L. RANSOM,
			SARAH WEBB.
				Committee.
Pima, Arizona, May 9, 1902.


ESSAY ON RELIEF SOCIETY WORK.
	This great and noble work was organized
at Nauvoo March 17, 1842, by the
Prophet Joseph Smith. It has grown and
increased until now there are over thrirty


thousand members. The organization of
the Relief Society consists of a president
and two counselors, secretary, treasurer,
teachers and members.
	The duties of the teachers are to visit
the homes of the members and non mem-
bers, for the purpose of finding out if any
are in need, or who are sick amongst us, to
administer to their wants and to aid them
spiritually and temporally. So much de-
pends upon the correct reports being
brought by the teachers of the districts
they visit before any special benefit can be
derived from the society. The purpose of
this society is to comfort the poor, re-
lieve the destitute, sustain the widow and
the orphan. What brings greater joy and
satisfaction than to know you are doing
something to help one who is cast down or
who has perhaps fallen by the wayside.
Every kind word spoken gives you courage
and ability to speak another. Every act
of assistance rendered by you through the
knowledge that you possess to aid one of
your fellow beings gives you greater abili-
ty to aid the next one. Good acts grow
upon a person. I have sometimes thought
that many people—judging from their
utter lack of kindness and of a disposition
to aid others—imagine that if they were to
say or do a kind thing it would destroy
their capacity to perform a kind act or
say a kind word in the future. Don’t go
through life with your lips sealed against
words of kindness and encouragement nor
your hearts sealed against performing
labors for another. Make it a motto in life
always to try and assist some one else to
carry his burden. The true way to happi-
ness in life is to labor for the happiness of
others.
	I pity the selfish who have never exper-
enced the joy which comes to those who
receive the thanks and gratitude of the
people whom they may have aided in the
struggle of life.
	The secret of success in our society de-
pends upon unity in our midst; where there
unity there is strength. If we acquire the
habit of fault finding our influence is
weakened. Each member should feel it
her duty to carry out every obligation de-
pending upon her, hence she will gain
greater satisfaction to herself and her
labors would be appreciated by those
placed over her. If we are faithful, diligent
and prayerful, the Lord will bless our
efforts.
	“Let us then be up and doing,
	With a heart for any fate.
	Still achieving, still pursuing.
	Learn to labor and to wait.”
ANNIE GRIFFITHS.


[Column 1]
NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN.
NOTES.
	Mrs. William Tod Helmuth, representa-
tive of the National Council at the Feder-
ation of clubs in Los Angeles, was en-
tertained by the Local Council of Women
of San Francisco, which Council has for its
head Mrs. Mary Wood Swift, the recently
chosen vice-president of the National
Council.
	The Local Council of San Francisco,
though only a few months old, is most
healthy and vigorous, having thirty organ-
izations affiliated with it and more coming
in at every meeting. Recently they have
been engaged in developing two important

[Column 2]
lines of work: they are pushing forward
the movement to establish School Saving
Banks; and their second effort is in the line
of the Consumers’ League work. They
have recently been visited by Mrs. Florence
Kelly, who has stirred up the Local
Council, and therefore the women of San
Francisco, on the subject of sweat-shops
and general injustice to the small wage
earner.
	The National Christian League for the
Promotion of Social Purity is devoting
much of its time at present to the Peace
Demonstration work. A conference of this
League was held at All Souls’ Church on
May 1, in New York at which many sub-
jects of vital interest were discussed by the
ablest speakers. Much of the serious and
interesting matter was forgotten by the
light-minded in the sensational which at-
tached to the question asked by Mrs.
Lauterback. The question was, “To
what limit should wives submit to
beating?”
	The Social Culture Club of New York,
which is connected with the Christian
League, entertained on the 6th of May the
distinguished poet and author, Edwin
Markham, who spoke on “Individuality
and some Individuals.” The home of
Mrs. Elizabeth B. Grannis, at which the
function was held was crowded with
earnest listeners on this delightful occasion.
	The Supreme Temple of the Rathbone,
Sisters holds its Biennial session the second
week in August, in San Francisco. A
special excursion is arranged from Chicago
to San Francisco for this Biennial. A
most attractive itinerary has been provided.
Mrs. Dell P. Glazier is the Supreme Chief
of this Order.
	Mrs. Josephine Silone Yates, president
of the National Association of Colored
Women, has been filling in the months of
March and April with a lecturing trip from
Washington to Philadelphia, Chicago,
Cleveland, Detroit and St. Louis, and
visiting all her associations in these and
other cities; and she has carried to them a
minute report of the work done at the late
Triennial, and has given them renewed
hope and courage along all the lines of
their work by acquainting them with the
wide field for improvment which exists for
them as well as for all other women in the
National Council and its international
work.
	At the Quinquenninal in London three
years ago, the battle of the American
Revolution was re-fought on psychic lines;
it was the old struggle between republican-
ism and aristocracy, and the former won
the day, so that now the flag of inter-
nationalism is broad enough to cover every
woman in every land or clime, whatever
her color or social standing may be.
	At Los Angeles has been fought again
the Civil War of the Rebellion—as in the
former case along psychic lines. But vic-
tory has perched on the Banner of Retro-
gression. Civilization and light have
reached a point, especially on American
soil, where a backward movoment, such as
that one made at Los Angeles, must neces-
sarily result in the failure, destruction and
dissolution of the forces once so compact
and strong. It is a commentary on social
womanhood and club organizations as com-
pared with the democratic and working


forces of womanhood which are enfolded
within the lines of the National Council of
Women.
	The Fifth Annual Convention of the
Nurses’ Associated Alumnie was held the
first week in May in Chicago. A number
of distinguished speakers graced the occa-
sion, among them being Miss Linda Rich-
ards, Mrs. Bedford Fenwick, Miss L. L.
Dock, Miss G. C. Ross, Miss M. Helena
McMillian and Miss Ann L. Pearse. The
convention was entertained at luncheon by
the Chicago Alumnea, and there was also
a reception tendered by the St Barnabas
Guild for Nurses, beside the one given at
St. Luke’s Home for Nurses. This asso-
ciation grows rapidly in numbers and inter-
est, and is the affiliated society in the
American Federation of Nurses, which
recently entered the National Council.
	The Local Council of Rochester, N. Y.,
as might naturally be supposed, is wrestling
with suffrage problems: what woman that
dwelt within the confines of that city, the
home of Miss Susan B. Anthony, could
fail to be interested in any question so
much as in the question of suffrage? Just
now this Council has centered all its forces
on obtaining School Suffrage for women.
	The Local Council of Portland, Me.,
which has been in active existence for ten
years and which has an average member-
ship of three thousand, has recently moved
out of private quarters into a public hall
for its monthly meetings. This Council is
in communication with the Local Council
of New Zealand and exchanges papers and
Year Books with mutual advantage This
Council is so close to Canada that much
interest is felt in the splendid work done
by the women of Canada.
	There is a movement originating in
Philadelphia, for the establishment of a
Pan-Racial Congress. Some very eminent
men are connected with the movement. It
is an endeavor to bring into harmonious
relations, on broad lines, the various races
of this earth. The president of the Con-
gress is Mr. J. P. Jones, of 261 North
Sixth St., Philadelphia, Pa. This gentle-
man recently wrote to Mrs. May Wright
Sewall saying that they had decided to ap-
point a Board of Lady Managers to co-oper-
ate with the men engaged in this work;
but, in accordance with her suggestion,
they have determined to include women in
the personnel of the Board itself. Mrs.
Sewall has accepted the position on this
Board. Further developments of this
movement will be watched with interest.
	Mrs. May Wright Sewall has recently
received a request for literature of the
National Council and its work, from far-off
Turkey in Asia, the applicant being Man-
sug Khidichian, of the town of Kerassunde.
	[From the office of Susa Young Gates,
Chairman Press Committee, National Coun-
cil of Women, Provo City, Utah.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
	much as possible for you money.					TRY US

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.


[Column 1]
UTAH WOMAN’S PRESS CLUB.
FIRST DECADE OF ITS ORGANIZATION.
	The January meeting, 1898, was held at
the home of Mrs Belle Bunnell. Mrs. Camil-
la C. Cobb and Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams
were received as members. Three members
were appointed on the Education committee,
namely: Dr. Orielle Curtis, Helen V. Kim-
ball and Hattie Harker. A letter was read
from Mrs. Martha Y. Jennings suggesting
that the club join the General Federation.
After some discussion it was moved, seconded
and carried by unanimous vote that the club
join that body. Mrs. I. Cameron Brown was
elected a delegate to the meeting of the
General Federation to be held in Denver,
and Mrs. Rachel Miller as alternate. The
program of the evening was on Germany.
One paper was on the German Empire,
another one on notable men and one on
notable women. A German song by Mrs.
Camilla C. Cobb. Recitation, “The Earl
King,” by Mrs. Bunnell. German refresh-
ments were served at the close of the meet-
ing.
	The February meeting was held by invita-
tion at the home of Dr. Ellis R. Shipp, who
had so pleasantly entertained the club on
many occasions. 
	At the March meeting Mrs. Luella Rhodes
was admitted to membership. By unan-
imous vote Mrs. Laura Hyde was elected
alternate director in the State Federation,
Mrs. L. S. Dickinson being absent. A letter
was read from the Woman’s Club, asking
that a representative be sent to meet with
them in a club council for the discussion of
important questions of interest. Mrs. Ruth
M. Fox was sent as such representative. The
question of the traveling libraries came up
and one dollar was sent toward the establish-
ment. Mrs. Lawler was admitted a mem-
ber. A motion was made by Mrs. E. B.
Wells and carried unanimously, that the club
subscribe five dollars for charter membership
in the George Washington Memorial Asso-
ciation. In the Woman’s Council of Clubs
the Press Club was given the appointment of
secretary, from its membership. Mrs. Mar-
garet A Caine was given the appointment.
	On the 19th of March a special meeting
was held for the purpose of discussing the
life and writings of F. Marion Crawford, the
celebrated author. President R. B. Pratt
stated that this world-famed writer would
visit Salt Lake City in the coming week and
it was the desire of the Press Club to enter-
tain him. General arrangements were made.
Mrs. L. D. Alder gave a paper on the auth-
or’s life and work. Mrs. M. J. Lambert
gave a list of his works. Vice-President
Susa Y. Gates was a visitor at this meeting
and added to the literary interest in F. Mar-
ion Crawford’s works
	The Press Club gave a grand reception at
the Bee Hive House to Mr. Crawford and
Major Pond, who accompanied him. Most
of the noted women of the Salt Lake clubs
attended. It was quite a brilliant and social
affair. Conversation and introductions were
interspersed with charming musical selections
both vocal and instrumental.

[Column 2]
	At the April meeting Mrs. Margaret A.
Caine was officially appointed a delegate to
the Council of Women’s Clubs. The burn-
ing question of the hour, the situation be- 
tween Spain and America owing to the
blowing up of the Maine in the harbor of
Havanna, whereby nearly three hundred
American citizens had been ruthlessly hurled
out of the world in times of peace, was fully
discussed. Public feeling had been aroused
to a dangerous degree in the United States
and clamored for war and revenge. Presi-
dent R. B. Pratt gave an address carefully
summing up the situation. Mrs. L. D.
Alder read a scathing poem from her own
pen on the same subject, entitled,
“Hespania.”
	At the May meeting Mrs. Kate B. Ander-
son was received as a member. A paper
was read by Mrs. Rhodes on the Royal
Family of Spain, and her present gener-
als. Mrs. M. J. Lambert in her paper on
current events, included letters from women’s
organizations concerning the war, and a
mother’s most pathetic letter, whose son was
killed on the Maine.
	The June meeting was a continuation of
the war sentiment, and a most stirring ad-
dress on the subject was given by Dr. Orielle
Curtis, which was afterwards published in
the Deseret News. “Women rally to the
standard, free your sister woman in down-
trodden Cuba,” was the burden of her
thrilling speech. The spirit of war stalked
over the lands, even the children were crying
for retribution for the killed of the Maine.
	At the September meeting Mrs. E. B.
Wells and Mrs. M. A. Caine were appointed
a committee to attend to the business of in-
corporating the club.
	In October the annual meeting was held
at the home of Mrs. L. B. Bunnell. The re-
port of the incorporating committee was laid
on the table. Mrs. Ella W. Hyde was
elected president with a full corps of officers.
The late queen of Denmark and some of her
descendants was taken up. The speakers
were Helen Vilate Kimball and Lydia D.
Alder. Next the Dreyfus case was discussed.
Miss Kimball read a number of clippings
concerning it and a continuation was deter-
mined upon. All the world were anxiously
watching this most intricate case. Then the
brilliant lights were extinguished and in the
glow of the soft grate fires Mrs. Ruth M.
Fox related some very thrilling Halloween
stories.
			(Continued.)

