
WOMAN’S EXPONENT.	
The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
Vol. 37.					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE, 1908.							No. 1.


CONTENTS.
								PAGE
L. D. S. Women of the Past. Personal Im-
	pressions.............Emmeline B.Wells	1
Relief Society Conference in England.....	2
In Memoriam of Delila King Olsen.........	3
In Memoriam of Louie Shurtliff Smith....	3
Relief Society Nurse Classes...................	5
Suffrage Reunion at Seneca Falls............	6
Cannons as Colonizers.............................
	....................Ann Cannon Woodbury	6
In Memoriam............................................	7
Relief Society Stake Reports: San Juan—
	Granite—Emery—Uintah................	7
Editorial:—Important Notice...................	4
	A Word to the Relief Society............	4
	In Memoriam of Emily Wells Grant.	4
	Unique Gathering.............................	5
Poetry:—The Power of Sympathy...........
	...............................Richard Metcalf	1
	Faith.....................Caroline Renfrew	2


THE POWER OF SYMPATHY.

The look of sympathy, the gentle word,
Spoken so low that only angels heard;
The secret act of pure self-sacrifice,
Unseen by men, but marked by angels’ eyes—
			These are not lost.

The happy dreams that gladden all our youth,
When dreams had less of self and more of trnth;
The childhood’s faith, so tranquil and so sweet,
Which sat like Mary at the Master’s feet—
			These are not lost.

The kindly plan devised for others’ good,
So seldom guessed, so little understood;
The quiet steadfast love that strove to win
Some wanderer from the ways of sin—
			These are not lost.

Not lost, O Lord! for in Thy city bright,
Our eyes shall see the past by clearer light,
And things long hidden from our gaze below
Thou wilt reveal; and we shall surely know
			These are not lost.
					RICHARD METCALF.


[Column 1]
L. D. S. WOMEN OF THE PAST.
PERSONAL IMPRESSIONS,
BY EMMELINE B. WELLS.
	Among the many great heroines of the
Church in early days, one hardly knows
which to select as foremost to mention, but
certainly of the early Kirtland sisters, Sis-
ter Marinda N. Johnson Hyde should be
recognized as figuring conspicuously as a
historical character; and also upon her own
merits as a woman of superior intellect and
ability. And indeed she came of a family
of distinction and of good standing in the
community where they resided.
	Father and Mother Johnson, as they were
designated in the rise of the Church in Kirt-
land and vicinity, were people of means and
of influence and among the first to receive the
Gospel, two of the sons, brothers of Sister
Hyde, were chosen members of the first quo-
rum of the Twelve Apostles, Lyman and
Luke Johnson. Moreover one need not go
back to her antecedents in giving personal
impressions of this famous woman. Her
majestic appearance, stature and figure,
with perfect self-poise would be noticeable
in any company, in fact her tout ensemble,
would reveal at a glance, the characteristics
of one born to lead, and to manage affairs;

[Column 2]
she also had the faculty to accumulate
means, or property, so to speak, and to
carry on any business a woman might un-
dertake successfully.
	She was decidedly in the best sense a
home-maker and her housewifely manage-
ment was a delight and a luxury in itself.
She was a woman to lean upon, and to re-
pose confidence in; one who would never
betray a trust, in fact would go through fire
and water rather than reveal that which had
been entrusted to her as a sacred obligation.
	Sister Hyde was not only charitable to
the needy and unfortunate, but more than
that, she was philanthropic and magnani-
mous, possessing the best requisites for fill-
ing a position, that would not only require
great wisdom, but the keenest sense of true
justice, tempered with mercy. One of her
delightful attributes was her accurate appre-
ciation of talent, and of tenderness and af-
fection in those with whom she mingled;
and her mindfulness of their efforts to do
and to promote the welfare of their fellow-
workers, and of the society in which they
were associated for the betterment of all
concerned, and the people at large.
	Her courage under difficulties and in try-
ing circumstances was something superb;
and her cheerfulness in personal affliction
was sublime in its heroic endurance.
	We often speak of women as the South-
ern type or the Northern type, the Puritan
type and so on, but although Marinda John-
son was born in Vermont, one of the New
England States, yet I could not possibly
class her as the Puritan type, she often spoke
of herself as belonging to what is termed now-
a-days “the old school,” and she really had
an old fashioned dignity, correct manners
and lady-like deportment, which belonged
to the well bred people. She was what
might be summed up in the word used so
much in modern literature a “thoroughbred.”
I might say the type of woman of the Revo-
lution, sort of military in bearing and cer-
tainly a woman of prestige.
	Her whole life from early girlhood empha-
sized her innate reverence for sacred things
and principles. She was a speaker of un-
usual power and had a far-reaching and
penetrating voice; one too who could com-
prehend others without, much explanation,
could read character and motives well, and
was in the best sense broad-minded. In
calling her attention to a new movement or
plan of work, or action, she judged accur-
ately, but never narrowed any method of de-
velopment. Her ideas were intensely prac-
tical, she was not at all visionary, but well-
balanced on all general subjects, and able
to discuss grave questions. A woman like-
ly to be chosen to settle a point at issue
among those who differed, a good arbitra-
tor, one who was a firm believer in equal
rights for man and woman on all questions;
and one who had helped to colonize in new
countries, and had experienced the disad-
vantages women with young families have
had to encounter when their husbands are
absent on long missions abroad. Sister
Hyde had traveled quite extensively herself,
and had met with eminent and distinguished
people.

[Column 3]
	Among the many great women of the Lat-
ter-day Saints whom I have known person-
ally and revered, and for whom I cherish the
most profound love and esteem, and whose
names I would wish to see engraven on a
roll of honor, and whose virtues and heroic
example are worthy to be followed by the
women of today, I count Marinda Hyde
equal in excellence to those heretofore men-
tioned.
		A noble type of good
		Heroic womanhood.
	Marinda N. Johnson Hyde, born June 28,
1815, Pomfret, Windsor County, Vermont,
died Salt Lake City, Utah, March 24, 1886.

	As representaive women of the early days
the one just mentioned, Sister Hyde and
Sarah Melissa Granger Kimball are two
unique types; unlike yet very intimately as-
sociated in the days of Kirtland and ever
afterwards. Both were women of great force
of character and possessed of endurance, able
to cope with difficulties along life’s way.
	Sister Sarah M. Kimball was the true
Yankee type came of Puritan ancestors, of
the earliest period in New England history.
She was tall and strait as an arrow in figure,
of “proper manners” and deportment of the
days in which she was born and reared, and
was so thoroughly imbued with the prudish
ideas of decorum of that early Puritanical
period, that any departure from it was re-
prehensible from her point of view.
	Withal she was very progressive along all
lines of intellectual growth and educational
attainments; she had been a woman of
means and had the advantages of what is
termed good society, as a young woman and
matron; and after her marriage had a beau-
tiful home of her own and pleasant sur-
roundings; she had exquisite taste in the
cultivation of flowers and artistic skill with
the pencil and brush which she used for her
own amusement and gratification, and for the
adornment of her home successfully.
	There was a sort of simple elegance about
Mrs. Hyrum Kimball (as she was called)
that entered into all her life work, and she
had a keen appreciation of the beauties of
scenery which made her a delightful travel-
ing companion. She had a good faculty for
teaching could simplify lessons and adapt
them to the understanding of those whom she
instructed. She possessed excellent power of
concentration, something quite unusual in
women, and she was well versed in the lite-
rature of the time, and the political ques-
tions that have agitated the minds of women
much during the nineteenth century period;
she was inclined to argument on points of
law and political economy, and was quite in-
dependent and decided in her views on the
woman question could express herself partic-
ularly well, and never hestitated in giving
her opinion upon equality of the sexes. In
fact she would rank as a leader in the wo-
man’s movement, and in many respects she
resembled the illustrious so called General,
Susan B. Anthony.
	Sister Kimball had largely developed exe-
cutive ability to accumulate property and
to take care of it to the best advantage.


[Column 1]
	She was a very good public speaker con-
cise in language and expression, used as few
words as possible to convey her meaning
and invariably handled her subjects well.
Her voice was rather incisive but she could
be heard well and understood where a more
fluent speaker might be misunderstood.
	Sister Kimball was original and indepen-
dent in her ideas; and in public measures
her plans were well-matured before she pre-
sented them, and therefore the more convinc-
ing; and she had a decidedly positive man-
ner that some might construe as aggresive.
	However Sister Kimball was a woman of
high ideals about spiritual matters and was
a deep religious thinker, and reasoner, and
a student of the Bible, Book of Mormon and
other Latter-day Saint books of a similar
kind; and the writings of Orson and Parley
P. Pratt and their Sermons she was particu-
larly fond of reading.
	Sister Kimball was methodical and prac
tical generally, but some of her writings on
philosophical and spiritual subjects were
rather extraordinary and although in speak-
ing she was clear and comprehensive, yet in
her writings she was abstruse and inclined
to be mystical, and yet she was so strong-
minded, and well-balanced that she would
never be the least likely to go beyond her
depth. She was really an advanced thinker
and fond of diving into the unknown, or
soaring upward to sublime heights. The
writer recalls one or two of her articles that
made quite a sensation at the time; upon
subjects with which women are now quite
conversant.
	Sister Kimball had the attributes of a re-
former along many lines, was at one time
quite an advocate of dress reform, something
very much needed in the present day.
	She was a woman one liked to talk with
even if one could not always coincide with
her views, and one was pretty sure to learn
something by conversation with her, even if
one was worsted in an argument, she was
certainly well worth listening to, and excel-
lent in debate.
	There was nothing common place about
Sister Kimball: like others of the sisters who
belonged to that period of the Church, she
had held converse wtth the greatest minds
of this dispensation, men who had been
favored of the Lord and taught of Him by
revelation and she had sat under their teach-
ing, and listened to their wise sayings, and
profited by their instruction; of these woman
who were familiar with the great Latter-day
Prophet, but few now remain only one or
two yet living, scarcely any in fact; they be-
longed to a period in the history of the
Church with which those women who are
foremost in our Church work today know
but very little.
	Sarah Kimball was exceptional in that
she had some traits of character unlike any
other woman of whom I have written, most-
ly undeveloped however; she was something
of a phrenologist, and a pretty good reader
of character, delicate in her nature, a little
cold in her manner, one does not care to
make comparisons, “they are said to be
odious” but there were some points of re-
semblance between Sister Eliza R. Snow and
Sarah M. Kimball.
	Sarah Melissa Granger married name
Kimball was born in Phelps, Ontario County,
New York, December 29, 1818, died in Salt
Lake City, Utah, December 1, 1898.

	In close fellowship with Marinda Hyde
and Sarah M. Kimball was another loyal
and devoted woman whose life-work for

[Column 2]
years was closely interwoven with the two
women whose names are mentioned here.
Sister Sarepta M. Blodgett Heywood, a
charming and brilliant women, lovable and
loyal, in all places and at all times, mother-
ly in the sweetest and dearest ways, she al-
ways had a smile for her friends, no matter
how her own heart might ache. She was
tender to the very fibres of her being. She
loved all living creatures, and was especially
kind and deferential to the aged, the help-
less and unfortunate. Her unbounded sym-
pathy for all sorrows whether through mis-
fortune or weakness or from whatever cause,
was something sublime in its expression and
effect. None appealed to her in vain; none
were ever turned away without some allevi-
ation.
	Her home was a delightful place of re-
pose and restfulness; she knew just what to
do for the comfort and entertainment of
guests whether her friends came singly or
in crowds, there was always the cordial wel-
come. Hospitality was one of her chief at-
tractions in the days when there were not
many bounties to dispense, and the Saints
were in need of substantial support to tide
over the time of scarcity. Sister Heywood
will always be remembered as one of those
who would divide the last morsel with a
friend, or any one in need, if to feed the
hungry and clothe the destitute is the sub-
limest charity, then she stands pre-eminent
in this regard. Her good deeds, her acts of
kindness and benevolence can never be
forgotten. Many will rise up and call her
blessed at the last day for the help extended
in the hour of great privation.
	Sister Heywood had received a liberal edu-
cation, graduating at last from a celebrated
institution of learning in Buffalo, New
York, and had been a great reader of good
books, and was a woman who always
dressed becomingly and in excellent taste;
she was graceful and attractive in manner
and possessed a fund of humor that seemed
always to bubble up at the right moment to
give zest and tone to common place conver-
sation or dulness that needed enlivening, she
was a woman of tact, which is said to be
better than talent.
	Sister Heywood was a most pleasing pub-
lic speaker, she had a sweet voice and her
intonation was perfect, she was gifted in
prayer, was of a religious and devotional na-
ture and one particularly well-adapted to the
dispensing wisely of means given for chari-
table purposes.
	In her own neighborhood and the local
Relief Society, where she was counselor to
Sister Marinda Hyde, the president from its
first organization (her husband was bishop
there) she was a prime favorite.
	One cannot recall her without thinking of
her beautiful eyes, that seemed to speak with-
out words, so full were they of soulfulness.
	Unlike most of the Latter-day Saints who
had been persecuted and driven from place
to place, the Heywood’s were people of
means and resources; this may have come
about because of Sister Heywood’s excellent
management of household affairs.
	Sarepta M. Blodgett, married name
Haywood, was born in Monroe, Ashtabula
Co., Ohio, November 22, 1822. Died in
Salt Lake City, Utah, November 23, 1886,


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Mrs. Ruth Bryan Leavitt, the daughter of
William Jennings Bryan, was chosen as de-
legate at large to the Colorado State Demo-
cratic Convention, which met at Glenwood


FAITH.
Hold fast to faith, thou shipwrecked one, hold
		fast.
	There is no other spar to cling to;
And thus upheld, thou’lt hear sweet melodies.
	’Tis thee the watching angels sing to.
And though that spar of faith appears to be
	A thing too frail for thy life’s danger,
Remember, it was faith that made for us
	That life, the sad world’s great Christ stranger.
Oh faith is mighty, and no life can reach
	Its golden island of fruition,
But by the barge of faith that straightway goes
	Swerveless on its divine commission.
Hold fast to faith, thou shipwrecked one, hold
		fast,
	And through the dark God’s searchlight gleam-
		ing
Will guide thee safely to the unknown shores
	That beckon through thy life’s long dreaming.
						CAROLINE RENFREW.
Colorado Springs.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE ENGLAND.
	A Relief Society conference was held in
Westgate Hall, Bradford, May 16th, 1908.
The meeting commenced at 3:30 p. m. Sis-
ter Romania B. Penrose was in attendance.
	After the opening exercises, President Mary
Hollings gave a brief account of the work
done in Bradford.
	Second Counselor, Sister Walker, reported
the progress that is being made in Halifax.
	President Maria Wood spoke encouraging-
ly of the work in Clayton.
	The president of the Society in Keighley
also gave a good report.
	Sister Mary A. Knight expressed pleasure
in attending to her duties as a teacher.
	A recitation was given by Miss Florrie
Benn, entitled, “Alone in Heaven.”
	Sister Mary E. Sanders spoke of the bene-
fit derived from attending Relief Society
meetings.
	First Councelor Mary Higgins told what
satisfaction the Gospel gave her and expres-
sed a desire to keep the commandments of
the Lord.
	Sister Lilian Jeffries sang, “Love at
Home.”
	Second Counselor Nancy Thorpe bore tes-
timony to the divinity of “Mormonism.”
	Several of the sisters bore testimony to
the good work done by the Society.
	Sister Edith Crampton, who is emigrating
to Zion, testified of good received through
attending to her duties.
	Sister Romania B. Penrose gave a very
instructive and helpful address on the great
obligations we owe to our Father in heaven.
Urged the sisters to purify themselves and
not grieve the Spirit of the Lord. She also
pointed out that the Relief Society is to
educate the sisters intellectually, spiritually
and morally. Impressed upon all the ne-
cessity of working unitedly and of respecting
authority. Spoke of eternal associations
and man’s free agency, and made plain the
fact that our destinies lie largely in our own
hands. Gave valuable suggestions regarding
Relief Society work and the training of chil-
dren. Urged mothers to instil into their
daughters right principles in early years and
so fit them for the duties of life as wives
and mothers. If these teachings are put into
practice great benefit will be derived by each
Society represented. The work in the con-
ference is growing, and we are expecting to
hear of greater advances in the future.
				MARY E. SANDERS,
Millennial Star.				Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
[Photograph with the caption “DELILA KING OLSEN.”]
IN MEMORIAM.
DELILA KING OLSEN.
	Delila King Olsen, the only daughter of Matilda
Robison and Thomas R. King was born July
tenth, eighteen hundred and forty-one at Sylvania
Lucas county, Ohio. At the time of her birth, her
parents and other near relatives were moving
from the State of New York, to Nauvoo, Illinois.
Her uncle, Joseph Robison was driving the
team. They halted, only a few hours after Deli-
la’s birth, and then continued their journey.
	They resided in Nanvoo at the time of the
martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph Smith and his
brother Hyrum, and the persecution of the Saints
following that sad event, and went with the peo-
ple when they were driven out in the year 1846,
to Winter Quarters, living there that winter.
Then moved to the southern part of Iowa where
they remained for the succeding four years.
	In 1851 the King family crossed the plains to
Utah, moving directly to Fillmore, being among
the pioneers of that place. It was necessary for
them to build a fort to protect them from the
Indians. They lived in this fort for ten
years.
	As soon as the people began to accumulate a
little property, they felt the necessity of having
their children have a better education than could
be obtained in a small country village at that
time, so they sent Delila to Salt Lake City to
attend school, where she was a student in Profes-
sor Mouseley’s high school in the Sixteenth
Ward.
	In her fourteenth year she taught her first
school in Holden, in Millard Co.. David R. and
Edward Stevens, now prominent men of that
place, being among her pupils. She afterwards
taught school at Fillmore and Kanosh for sev-
eral years. The advancment along educational
lines, of her own family and the children in the
community in which she resided being one of her
greatest desires.
	Owing to her intelligence and attractiveness she
was always surrounded by friends and admirers.
Such was her influence among her associates that
if there was to be a party or sociable of any kind,
it must be of the best kind for Delila King was
going.
	She was an ideal daughter on whom her parents
looked with pride and admiration, and a lovable
sister.
	She was married at Fillmore, December 14.
1861, to Geo. Daniel Olson, one of the best viol-
nists of the territory at that time, also a cabinet
maker of the firm of Foster and Midgley of Salt
Lake City.
	They resided in Salt Lake City about two years
then moved to Fillmore where her husband fol-
lowed the cabinet maker’s trade. The two con-
tributed much to the social enjoyment of the com-
munity in which they lived. She had gained a
liberal education and spent a great part of her

[Column 2]
life as a teacher. Politically she was an ardent
Democrat and served two terms as Recorder of
Millard County from January 1, 1897 to January
1901.
	She was the mother of nine children, five boys
and four girls. One daughter died while quite
young, and her beautiful daughter Eva, grown to
womanhood and married to Alma Greenwood,
died at the birth of her first child. Her husband
died at Fillmore, May 8, 1893.
	With all her cares she devoted much of her
time and talents to Church work, being a charter
member of the first Relief Society organized in
Fillmore, May 7. 1868; and was chosen a teacher
at the first meeting.
	On January 25th, 1870, the ladies of Fllmore
held a mass meeting to express their indignation
in regard to the Cullom bill Delila was among
the number.
	July 26, 1870 at the organization of the Fillmore
Ward Relief Society, Caroline Collister was nomi-
nated president and Delila Olson first counselor.
While holding this position she assisted in emi-
grating the poor Saints from Europe by donating
of her means for that purpose. She advocated
assisting the children of the poor to obtain means
for an education by providing books, shoes, or
anything that it was possible for the society to do
for them. She continued in this position until the
dividing of the Fillmore Ward, October 28, 1877.
when she was chosen and set apart to be presi-
dent of the Second Ward Relief Society.
	The Relief Society of the Millard Stake of Zion
was organized January 18, 1879. Belinda M. Pratt
was chosen president and Delila Olson first coun-
selor and secretary. She was released from being
president of the Second Ward Fillmore Relief
Society on March 6th, 1879.
	As a competent president for the Stake
Primary Association was wanted at its organiza-
tion she was released from being counselor in the
Stake Relief Socfety in May, 1883, and chosen
president of the Stake Primary Association
which office she filled with credit until her re-
moval to Salt Lake City in November, 1902.
	She continued to hold the position of secretary
for the Stake Relief Society until November,
1902.
	She assisted in drafting resolutions for the first
Retrenchment Association organized in Fillmore
which was afterwards changed to “Young Ladies’
Mutual Improvement Association and was Pres-
ident for many years. Was also president of the
Fillmore Ward Primary Association, from its or-
ganization August 10, 1880, until released with
honor October 26, 1882.—was a Sunday School
teacher all her life long.
	She was a kind and affectionate wife, a true
helpmeet, a loving and careful mother, trying at
all times to instil the principles of true man and
womanhood in the hearts of her children and
never ceasing in advocating the principles of the
Gospel of Jesus Christ, both by precept and ex-
ample. A true friend, always speaking the best
of every one, and never allowing her lips to speak
evil of any one; never looking for faults, but find-
ing the true in those with whom she associated.
Her home was always open for every one to find
the welcoming hand of hospitality extended to
them. She descended from good old New Eng-
land ancestors, some of whom emigrated from
Holland, and some from England, with the object
of finding a place where they could have freedom
of conscience. They were among those who
fought for American independence. Delila was
staunch, true and patriotic, a sincere disciple
of Susan B. Anthony an ardent suffragist.
	She died January 5, 1907, and her remains were
interred in the cemetery at Fillmore by the side
of her husband, Daniel Olsen. At the funeral
services the speakers were Judge Joshua Green-
wood, Judge William A. King, a nephew of the
deceased, Elder John V. Robison, a cousin, and
President Thomas C. Callister. Resolutions of
love and esteem by the Relief Society, Y. L. M. I.
Association and the Primary Association, with all
of which she had been officially connected, were
read. The services were attended by all of her
loving children and several grandchildren.
	The remarks of the speakers were full of praise,
love and esteem for her noble character.
	Sister Olsen is survived by the following chil-
dren: Geo. D., of Fillmore; Edward T., of Chic-
ago; Frank A., merchant of Price, Utah; Cul-
bert L., a Salt Lake attorney. Emmett, a mining
engineer of Salt Lake City; Miss Ethel Olsen and
Mrs. George M. Hanson, whose husband is private
secretary to Senator George Sutherland. Also
three brothers, Culbert and Edwin King, of Cir-
cle valley, and Volney King of Cowley, Wyoming,
and hosts of other relatives and friends.
					ISABELLA F. ROBISON.


IN MEMORIAM.
	It is with feelings of profound sorrow and
grief that we, the officers and members of
the Relief Society of the Weber Stake of
Zion, express our heartfelt sympathy and
extend words of condolence to those whom
we love, honor and revere; those who, in the
decree of an all-wise Father, have been cal-
led upon to part, for a brief season with one
most truly beloved.
	Sister Louie Shurtliff Smith was one in
whom shone all the virtues known to hum-
anity. Queen-like, regal in her mien, yet
withal so gentle, just and kind; her innate
beauty showed the exquisite touches of the
Master’s hand. She was as the sunbeam
breaking through the clouds. Her pure,
chaste life was ever an inspiration.
	As a daughter she was all that the name
implies, all that a daughter could be. As a
sister, loving, beloved and revered. A wife,
the helpmeet, companion and counselor of
her husband. A mother, tender, true, wise,
ideal.
	To parents, brothers, husband and little
ones we feel to say: Whereas our Father, in
His wisdom and love, has called her noble
spirit home to labor in a more exalted
sphere, may you be able to bow in humble
submission to His divine will. And we
earnestly pray that on each aching heart
may be poured a healing balm, even the
comforting influence of the Holy Spirit, that
you may even now see the silver lining to
the cloud which overshadows you and be
able to say “The Lord gave and the Lord
hath taken away; blessed be the name of the
Lord.”
O loved ones, with thy bruised and bleeding
	hearts,
Could’st thou have seen the messenger, who came
In shining robes, direct from Father’s throne,
Had’st heard the thrilling voice call Louie’s
	name,
Thou wouldst have said, if thou hadst under-
	stood,
“It is the Lord, do Thou as seemeth good.”
But veiled by dense mortality, thine eyes
Beheld not, through the bitter, blinding tears;
The same dense clay permitted not the sound
Of angel voice to penetrate thine ears;
Not tear nor sob prevented: laws abound
That man must walk by faith, not sight nor
	sound.
And so the angel came unseen, unheard
By all save thy dear one, whom he didst guide
Across the shadowy river, to the throne
Where harp and crown await on yonder side;
She saw, heard and recalled her former home
And smiling, vhispered faintly “Lord I come.”
We mourn, we weep with thee in thy deep loss;
We know the grieving heart yearns for its own;
Know that the aching void can ne’er be filled,
Save by our Heavenly Father, He alone
Can soothe thy grief, speak peace unto thy soul,
Can heal thy wounds and make thee truly whole.
And so we pray that strength be given thee,
That heavenly dews may on thy souls descend,
That through the cloud, blue sky may yet be
	seen,
Instead of song, may psalm thy lips attend;
When rightly tempered, both by heat and wave.
Thou’lt meet again thine own beyond the grave.
						NELLIE BECROFT.
	In behalf of the officers and members of
the Relief Society of the Weber Stake of
Zion.


Dr. Romania B. Penrose Delegate from
Utah appointed by the Governor delivered
an address at the International Woman’s
Suffrage Alliance Congress held in Amster-
dam, Holland, June 16, 1908. The address
will be published in full in our next number.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

				Woman’s Exponent

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, 1$.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah,
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.		-	-	JUNE, 1908.


IMPORTANT NOTICE.
	The Presiding Bishopric of the Church
have called upon the General Relief Society
to use its influence in securing a few more
pupil students of the L. D. S. College to
take the two years’ nurse course at the Dr.
W. H Groves Latter-day Saints Hospital.
	The Hospital has a training school for
nurses, and efforts are being made to affili-
ate this training school with the General
Church School System. A course of train-
ing is given at said Hospital covering a per-
iod of three years, and efforts are being
made to reduce it to two years in the near
future. The sehool year commences Sep-
tember 1st, 1908, and there is still eight
more pupil nurses needed to make the re-
quired number.
	The Relief Society desires to give this re-
quest publicity through the columns of the
Woman’s Exponent and letters will be sent
giving fuller particulars to Presidents of
Stakes, that they may understand the situ-
ation more in detail.
	This Hospital training will not in any way
interfere with the Relief Society nurse class
taught under the auspices of the General
Relief Society by Dr. M. C. Roberts, which
will commence later in September as adver-
tised in this nnmber of the paper, and is
especially in the interest of charity as its
first object.
	More concerning this subject will be pub-
lished in the next issue of the paper.


[Column 1]
A WORD TO THE RELIEF SOCIETR.
	In the month of Jnne, 1872, this little
paper first made its appearance, and Presi-
dent Brigham Young anticipated the sisters
subscribing liberally and making it a great
enterprise in the interests of the women of
Zion not only in Utah, but wherever the
Saints were located. He wished the sisters
to have a knowledge of affairs in general at
home and elsewhere, to know, too, what
other women were doing in the way of high-
er education and advancement and to keep
abreast of the times.
	The sisters were urged through the meet-
ings held at that period of time, to

[Column 2]
write for the paper and to improve them-
selves in composition and literary merit, and
make genuine history that would be a record
of woman’s work.
	President Young at one time in conversa-
tion with the editor suggested that the lives
of prominent women in the Church, those
who had associated in the early days in
active measures for the benefit and es-
tablishment of Mormonism, or actual labor
in colonizing, or in a religious or moral
sense, to promote the interests of the build-
ing up of Zion, should be written up that a
history or true record might be made of value
to posterity.
	Considerable of this biographical work
has been done, but in many instances, our
young people who have so much and read so
much, fancy lighter reading than histories of
women’s lives with whose names they are
more or less familiar. Therefore, more
recently the editor has undertaken to write
in a dignified manner, so to speak, her own
impressions of such women, who helped to
lay the foundation of this work in connec-
tion with the great leaders among distin-
guished men of their own time.
	Women who have opened the way in
many lines for the younger generation of
the present period. They really do not
know what they owe to those women whose
names are household words in Zion.
	It is earnestly desired that the sisters in
all the wards should take a more active in-
terest in getting subscriptions for the
Woman’s Exponent, and sustaining it as a
means of spreading knowledge, not only of
the work of the Relief Society itself which is
the greatest organization of women in the
Church, (and we think even in the world)
but because this society carries the light of
the Gospel along with its teaching into every
home of its members.
	It was organized by the Prophet Joseph
Smith before any of the women’s societies
or associations in the outside world, and can
any Latter-day Saint doubt its being through
revelation? Such a great society must have
an organ to keep up with its development,
and it should be sustained by its members,
so that there need be no delays in its regu-
lar publication. Printing is not done with-
out money, although writers, poets, etc.,
may go hungry, machinery does not run
itself.
	The sisters in all parts of the world are
benefitted by the Woman’s Exponent; it is
the actual agent of the society, keeping be-
fore the society the importance of the or-
ganization and its methods of work, and the
success attending the efforts made in all the
various localities. It may be prosy, but so
is all useful work, but the results are what
is looked for. There might be books upon
books issued, but they would not keep pace
with the growth of a society as a journal
does. It is not for the sake of stories or
poems though they embellish and help over
dry reading, it is for the actual progress
being made that a paper is most needed. In
view of these facts and many more that
might be stated, the Exponent asks for a
more liberal patronage, and a larger circula-
tion in the Relief Society which it repre-
sents.


Mrs. Taft devotes part of every day to the
study of languages. Spanish and French
are her favorites. Few mistresses of the
White House have been familiar with the
continental tongues, and still fewer with
Spanish, the language of South America.


IN MEMORIAM.
		EMILY WELLS GRANT.
“Death is the crown of life!”
	The Latter-day Saints believe death opens
the portal to eternal life, and yet we mourn
for those who go out into the unknown,
while we believe they are welcomed on the
other side, as we welcome and rejoice when
an immortal soul is born into this world,
where we know there is trial and sorrow,
awaiting all who come.
	It is in our nature to mourn for our loved
ones when the parting comes, yet we do and
must acknowledge the hand of the Lord,
even when the nearest and dearest are taken.
	“What shall we add now? She is dead”
Death seems to close our lips at first, and
we can only exclaim, all is over she is gone;
it is useless our doing, our grief, our tears,
they avail naught, yet we weep, we sigh, we
mourn, it seems to give relief to our agon-
zed hearts, although we realize our weeping
is in vain. We cannot bring them back, we
would not, if we could.
	Our beloved Emily has gone where there
is—
	No more weeping, no more sighing,
		No more agonizing fears
	And no requiem for the dying
		Chanted ’mid-the falling tears.

	Angel escorts bearing banners
		Every entrance watch to see
	One who cometh with hosannas
		Marching on to victory!
	If we could look within the pearly gates,
that open to the heavenly mansions, we
would be humiliated with our own weak-
ness, but we are so intensely human, and
those are taken whom we fain would keep,
and we cannot help exclaiming,what avails,
now she is dead:
	Sweet Emily, how brave she was during
her long and tedious illness, patient and
tender always, trying to bear her affliction
with the fortitude of a saint of God. How
fondly her relatives and friends sought to
exercise faith for her recovery, hoping against
hope for weeks and months, praying earnest-
ly to the Lord to spare her for the dear chil-
drens’ sake.
	Sister Grant had every thing to live for, a
noble and kind husband who seemed to
anticipate her every wish, beautiful daught-
ers, brothers and sisters who almost idolized
her, and hosts of friends, who were devotedly
attached to her, for she had such charming,
attractive qualities, and withal a fine sense
of humor, and could use it tactfully to the
admiration of those whom she cared to please;
she was a great favorite in her girlhood among
the crowd of young people, school-fellows and
campanions; she never lacked for attention
here or there, wherever she went, winning in
her manner and a graceful dancer; she had
many accomplishments as well as home
adornments.
	The few years she passed abroad where
her husband, Apostle Heber J. Grant, pre-
sided over the European mission, gave her
the opportunity to see the world and to be-
come acquainted with many Latter-day
Saints, at the headquarters in Liverpool,
and those going upon missions and return-
ing; and she had the faculty of endearing
herself to them all, and invariably they
spoke of Sister Grant with sincere affection
and high regard. Those few years brighten-
ed her life greatly, and when after returning
to this city and meeting again her blessed
mother, and the dear ones here, she became


[Column 1]
settled in her hew home, which she had plan-
ned to suit herself and among her dearest
friends, it seemed as if her life might flow on
like a happy dream.
	But alas for human expectations, she was
not permitted long to enjoy the rich bles-
sings of home and mother, husband and
children. Everything that could be done
for her ease and gratification was thought of
and no expense was spared, loving hands
ministered to her, and those about her were
thoughtful of every act and attention. And
yet she could not stay with those who held
her in the strongest bonds of affection.
Therefore we must say “He doeth all things
well,” knowing it was the Father’s will.
The loved and lost! Why do we call them lost?
Because we miss them from our onward way,
God’s unseen angel o’er our pathway crossed
Looked on us all and loving them the most
Straightway relieved them from life’s weary load.
They are not lost, they are within the door
That shuts out loss and every hurtful thing—
With angels bright and loved ones gone before
In their Redeemer’s presence evermore
And God Himself their Lord, and Judge, and King.
	Sad was the parting here, yet Sister Grant
has many dear ones there, and the welcome
will be beyond what words can express; her
only boy Daniel, her beautiful Sister Dessie,
her mother, father, and others loved and
cherished, relatives and friends, and an in-
numerable company of saints and angels
welcomed her to “the golden shore.”
	Emily Wells Grant was the daughter of
President Daniel H. Wells and his wife
Martha G. Wells (recently deceased) and
was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, April 22,
1857: she grew to womanhood in an environ-
ment of love and happiness, she had the
very best educational advantages, the Utah
schools and University afforded. She was
married to Elder Heber J. Grant in 1884—
and was the mother of five children Dessie,
and Grace, both now in early womanhood,
and Daniel (deceased) Emily and Frances still
young in years. Sister Grant was a loving
and tender mother and a charming woman
in all the delicate relations of domestic life.
	Sister Grant passed peacefully away after
a painfully tedious illness under which she
bore up heroically on Monday, May 25, at
3:15 p.m. surrounded by her immediate fam-
ily, her mother’s sister Emily Bullock was
also present, and must have been a great
stay and comfort to the family, who had so
recently parted with the mother, Sister Mar-
tha Wells only a few days previous.
	The funeral was held at the home on
Wednesday May 27, at 2 p. m. Bishop T.
A. Clawson presiding at the services. The
opening prayer was offered by President
Anthon H. Lund, and was eloquent with
feeling and consolation to the bereaved.
Elder O. F. Whitney, a life-long friend paid
a glowing tribute to her life and memory.
Elder Rudger Clawson followed him allud-
ing to their long acquaintance and pleasant
association, her praiseworthy life and the
faithful record she had made. The music
was furnished by the Pyper, Whitney, Spen-
cer and Ensign quartet accompanied by
Prof. Arthur Shepherd and was sweet and
soothing, the first hymn was “Thou dost not
weep to weep alone.” then “O my Father”
rendered by Horace Ensign, Mrs. Emily H.
Woodmansee’s hymn “Resting now from
care and sorrow” sung as a solo by Elder
George D. Pyper and the anthem “Not Dead
But Sleepeth,” closed: the closing prayer
was offered by Elder Richard W. Young.

[Column 2]
	Sister Grant was literally buried in flowers
of the most delicate fragrance, in fact the
casket was covered and the room filled in
every nook and corner, the sweetest perfume
of flowers everywhere, the gifts of her many
dear friends, and what can be more emble-
matic of purity and loveliness.
	“Flowers preach to us if we will hear.”
	The pall bearers were six of her brothers:
Rulon S. Wells, Louis R. Wells, Gershom
B. Wells, Melvin D. Wells, Charles H. Wells
and Victor P. Wells.
	The grave was dedicated by Elder Joseph
Hyrum Grant and the beautiful hymn “Rest
on the hillside, rest” was softly and sweetly
sung by the quartet, the casket was lowered
into the grave lined with the sweetest flowers
of May.
	Farewell a word so tender, so sad, for
those who stay but
		“They who go
	Feel not the pain of parting; it is they
	Who stay behind that suffer.”
		“Fare thee well;
	The elements be kind to thee and make
	Thy spirits all of comfort.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
UNIQUE GATHERING.
	At the Forestdale Amusement Hall, just
south of this city, on Tuesday afternoon,
July 9, 1908, there were assembled between
two and three hundred of the Free family to
celebrate the 79th birthday of Sister Hannah
C. Free Wells, (wife of President Daniel H.
Wells) and daughter of the late Absalom P.
Free, a veteran in the Church from the early
days, and a man well known in Utah, whose
descendants have now become very numer-
ous, the gathering was to perpetuate his
memory among his posterity.
	The reception began at 2 p. m. and the
banquet was scheduled at 4 p. m. The
large and commodious banqueting hall was
beautifully decorated, and there were roses
and other fragrant flowers in all available
places, and upon the tables, that were liter-
ally loaded with appetizing viands in great
variety. The hospitality of the Free family
has always been proverbial from the early
days in the valley, and is doubtless a part
of the Southern life and inheritance. Sister
Betsy Strait Free, wife of Absalom Free, was
a most hospitable Southern woman, born in
Kentucky.
	There were five tables filled with the de-
scendants of the Free families, and it was a
wonderful sight to behold, the scene was
quite a remarkable one to look upon. There
were white haired men and women, and
younger married people with families, and
fine young men and fair maidens and chil-
dren of all ages and sizes down to tiny
babies.
	Free's, Young's, Wells's, Smith's and
other names of married children and grand-
children too numerous to mention. Among
them are many sweet singers and talented
musicians, and also dramatic ability, so
that the program of exercises needed no out-
side help. There was dancing late in the
evening, and altogether the party was a com-
plete success all around.
	The real guest of honor was Sister Hannah
C. Wells, whose birthday occurred on that
day, which had been chosen for the gather-
ing of the "Free clan." She was the recipi-
ent of several beautif[-]l gifts and of many
hearty congratulations and good wishes,
among the gifts was a very large birthday
cake handsomely decorated and her name
and age upon it, made and presented by her

[Column 2]
niece, Talitha Henry. There were seeming-
ly no regrets except the absence of Junius F.
Wells, or anything else to mar the delightful
feeling and unity, that was very apparent to
all present.
	The Free family history is very interest-
ing, although it does not date back very far.
The first known being Grandfather Andrew
Free, an only child born in North Carolina
about the year 1775, he married Mary Pen-
nington, and they were the parents of Absa-
lom Pennington Free who was born in North
Carolina on the eastern slope of the Cum-
berland Mountains. The family, consisting
of eleven children, emigrated to the
wilderness of the far west, the prairies of
Illinois, about the year 1814, and they trav-
eled through a land of hostile Indians, real
pioneers, and were among the first to get
farms in the fertile valley of the Mississippi,
in St. Clair County where they located and
obtained [-]ine farms along the Kaw river;
they became well-to-do farmers.
	The father, Andrew Free, heard the Gos-
pel and was baptized by Simeon Carter, also
his wife and nearly all his family. He af-
terwards moved to Missouri and located at
Far West, in Caldwell County, in 1836.
	While living there Andrew Free met
Joseph Smith the Prophet whom he had not
seen before, and the Prophet came up to
him, shook hands with him, looked him in
the face and said, "Brother Free, you are a
real "Ephramite," and one can believe it
by his numerous posterity.
	The family remained in Missouri until the
expulsion from that state in 1838, and then
returned to Illinois, remaining there until
1845, when they went to Nauvoo, leaving in
the exodus with the body of the Church.
"The Frees" are a very affectionate family
and loyal to each other, and to the Church
of which they are members.
	The reunion was a perfect success and
will promote love and harmony among the
younger generations, as well as a knowledge
of their progenitors, and be helpful in the
work for the dead; which Patriarch Absalom
P. Free greatly desired.


RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE CLASSES.
SALT LAKE CITY, March 14, 1908.
	The Presidency and the General Board of
the Relief Society announce that the next
Relief Society Nurse Class taught under
their direction will commence Monday, Sep-
tember 21, 1908, in Salt Lake City. Dr.
Margaret C. Roberts will be the Instructor.
It is requested that the Stake Presidents
will at once consult with their Ward Presi-
dents for the purpose of selecting intelligent,
bright, and energetic young women, of good
moral character, to take this course in nurse
training.
	In recommending this course in nursing
given through the Relief Society, it should
be remembered that the students graduated
will have the privilege of paying for their
tuition with their work among the poor, and
will be gaining a practical experience that
will be of benefit to them throughout their
professional career.
	The tuition for the course in nursing will
be $10, and it is expected that the Relief
Society organization in each Ward will pay
the $10 tuition fee for its representative,
although any student who wishes to pay the
tuition herself may do so, if willing to ac-
cept the Relief Society Nurse contract, a
copy of which follows:


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CONTRACT.
	In consideration of obtaining instruction
at a reduced price in the General Relief So-
ciety Nurse class taught by Dr. Margaret C.
Roberts, I pledge to hold myself in readi-
ness to answer all calls made upon me by
the General Superintendent of Relief Society
Nurses, or the President of the Stake to
which I belong, to nurse for Charity for fifty
days, and in addition for whatever pay shall
be designated by my Superintendent for the
term of two years after date of graduation,
and I shall not be exempt from this duty
unless through personal sickness.
	And I also agree not to accept any case
of nursing on my own account, during the
said two years, without previously consult-
ing my Superintendent.
			(Signed.)............................
	It is our desire that Superintendents of
Stakes and Ward Presidents will be energe-
tic in presenting this matter to the class of
young women who would be desirable stu-
dents, as we are in great need of more train-
ed nurses for the people. It is important
that students, as far as possible, commence
with the class at its beginning, on the 21st
of September next. For further particulars
write to Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie, 55 North
West Temple Street, Salt Lake City.
			BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
					General President.
			EMMELINE B. WELLS,
					General Secretary.
	EMMA A. EMPEY,
			Gen. Sup. of R. S. Nurse Work.
	PHEBE Y. BEATIE, Secretary.


[Column 1]
SUFFRAGE REUNION AT SENECA FALLS.
	Standing out bold and clear among the
many great events that marked the phenom-
enal progress of humanity the world over
during the nineteenth century is one, the
60th anniversary of which was celebrated in
Seneca Falls, New York, May 26th, 27th,
and 28th of this year. In that city in July
1848, was held the first organized meeting
ever held by women in the world’s history,
to demand equal participation in the fram-
ing of laws and all other matters concern-
ing the welfare of the people. The meeting
was called by Elizabeth Cady Stanton and
Lucretia Mott, and was attended by many
prominent men and women from different
parts of the country, among them the great
orator and statesman, Frederick Douglas.
	The resolution passed at that meeting was
the clarion cry that, before the century had
closed, was to ring in every civilized coun-
try in the world, rousing women from their
lethargy of the ages; awakening to the gross
injustice of their position in the world; of
the extreme cruelty of many of the laws
enacted concerning them, particularly those
which related to property and other rights.
	That the women of the world are aroused
to the importance of securing their just
rights is evidenced by the battle they are so
strenuously waging in the United States,
England, conservative Germany, France and
the Latin nations. Even in Turkey, India,
China and Japan they have taken up the
agitation. In Finland, New Zealand, Aus-
tralia, and in several of our own states they
have already secured full rights to the elect-
ive franchise.
	The exercises at Seneca Falls was attend-
ed by thousands of men and women coming
from different parts of the country; and a
number from Europe. The principal event

[Column 2]
of the exercises was the unveiling on Wed-
nesday afternoon of a large Bronze Tablet,
commemorating the first meeting. The tab-
let was placed on the outer wall of the
church building that now occupies the
ground where stood the old Wesleyan Chap-
el where the meeting was held in 1848.
	On one side of the tablet, modeled in ex-
quisite relief, stands a graceful, earnest and
intelligent looking woman, dressed in the
fashion in vogue at that period. Her right
arm hangs restfully at the side, the hand
holding the paper on which was written the
call for the meeting. The left arm is ex-
tended and the hand holds a wreath over a
smaller tablet on which is inscribed the fol-
lowing:
	“On this spot stood Wesleyan Chapel,
where the first Woman’s Rights Convention
in the world’s history was held, July 19th
and 20th, 1848. At that meeting Elizabeth
Cady Stanton moved the following resolu-
tion, which was seconded by Frederick
Douglas; “Resolved, that it is the duty of
the women of this country to secure to
themselves the sacred right to the elective
franchise.”
	The tablet is considered by many critics
to be the finest that has been made in this
country in a long time, resembling in many
ways the work of the late gifted Saint Gaud-
ens. It was modeled by Elizabeth St. John
Matthews, the sculptor, of New York City.
	Mrs. Matthews was the woman member
of the International Jury of Awards on
Sculpture at the St. Louis Exposition,and is
the first and only woman to be given this
honor in any country. She has done many
notable works of art, some of which have
given her an international reputation. Her
busts of Presidents Lincoln, McKinley and
Roosevelt, Chaplain McCabe, and Cardinal
Gibbons and the bas-reliefs of Elizabeth
Cady Stanton, and Lucretia Mott, Francis
Willard, Susan B, Anthony (the latter taken
from sittings given by Miss Anthony) and
Mrs. Croly, (Jennie June) the founder of
women’s clubs, have received high praise.
								Ex.


Mrs. Lucy A. Clark of Brigham City, Utah,
was the only woman delegate in the National
Republican Convention. She was first elect-
ed as an alternate, but one of the delegates
was not able to go to Chicago, and the Utah
delegation chose her to fill his place. She
now wears the gold badge of a regular dele-
gate. Mrs. Clark is the daughter of one of
the pioneer settlers. She was born in Far-
mington, Utah, in 1850. While still a young
woman she began to take part in public af-
fairs. For a long time she has been active
in politics, and she was at one time vice-
president of the State Equal Suffrage Asso-
ciation. She ran for the State Senate in
1896, but was beaten by a Democratic land-
slide. Mrs. Clark says Roosevelt is her first
choice for the next president, Taft her se-
cond. She believes in equal suffrage, and
says it works well. She is the mother of
eleven children, and brought the photographs
of eight of them to the convention. Being
asked her profession (she is now a gray-
haired woman), she anwered, “I have been
a mother.”
Woman’s Journal.
	June 20, 1908.
	Lady Henry Somerset calls attention to
the fact that 2,584 different petitions for
woman suffrage have been sent to the British
Parliament.


CANNONS AS COLONIZERS.
		Ann Cannon Woodbury.

	I have been invited to say something in
regard to the record our family has made as
colonizers, but would like to refer first to
our early experience in the Gospel.
	My parents were believers in the Bible
and fairly well versed in its teachings but
not members of any sect. My father saw
the inconsistency of the various creeds he
had come in contact with, and had con-
founded many of those advocating or pro-
fessing a belief therein by comparisons and
arguments from the Bible. When Apostle
John Taylor landed in England as a mis-
sionary in the spring of 1840 he called to
see my father because he was a brother-in-
law, though they had never met. Not find-
ing my father at home, he left, promising to
call the next day. He had scarcely got
beyond hearing distance when my mother
remarked to George Q. “That is a man of
God.” She was more spiritually minded
than my father, and was thus early impres-
sed in favor of the missionary and his mes-
sage. On calling the next day Elder Taylor
explained the Gospel and found the family
interested and eager listeners. Most of us
were convinced of its truth from that day.
My father, however, put “Mormonism” to
the same test he had other creeds, with lit-
tle doubt at first that he could prove it
equally faulty. To his surprise, he soon
found that the missionary and his creed
stood the test. He spent several days read-
ing the Book of Mormon, at first with the
hope of disproving its claims, but at its con-
clusion remarked that "A bad man could
not have written it, and a good man would
not have dared to, if he had not been inspir-
ed of the Lord.”
	The family embraced the Gospel, and
soon began to feel a desire to migrate to
America. Mother was impressed from the
first that she would not live to cross the sea,
but did not waver in her determination to
go on that account. She felt that for the
children’s welfare and development they
should be with the body of the Church, and
with true martyr spirit she was willing to
sacrifice even her life to accomplish that
end. My father favored sailing to New
York, that being the shorter voyage, and for
the additional reason mother had a brother
and two sisters living there. Mother, how-
ever, opposed it, claiming that her relatives,
not believing as they did, would only be a
hindrance instead of a help to the children
when left without her to watch over them—
indeed, might prevent them from going any
farther and influence them against the Gos-
pel. So the longer voyage—to New Orleans
instead of to New York was decided upon.
	We sailed from Liverpool in September,
1842, and mother became sick the next day.
Her suffering was pathetic and her patience
and resignation remarkable. She never once
regretted having started,and though her love
for her children and anxiety for their future
led her occasionally to express the wish that
she could live to care for them, it is doubt-
ful if she ever for a moment believed that
she would. She lingered for six weeks and
was then buried in the sea. Oh the gloom
of that occasion! No words can fully de-
scribe the sorrow of the motherless children
and father! Our hopes in the Gospel alone
supported us. In time the voyage, which
in our anxiety had seemed so interminable,
came to an end. At last we halted tempo-
rarily at New Orleans. Then followed a


[Column 1]
tedious and very trying voyage by boat up
the river in the hope of reaching Nauvoo.
The river was low, the boat poor and heavi-
ly loaded. It stranded on a sand bar and
we were detained for two weeks in the woods
near Chester, and only succeeded in getting
as far as St. Louis before the river froze
over. We had to remain there all winter.
We reached Nauvoo in the spring of 1843.
Before we landed the Prophet came on
board the boat and shook hands with all the
passengers. We were also greeted with a
hearty welcome from Aunt Leonora Taylor.
	Father bought a home in Nauvoo and did
his best to care for his motherless children
while pursuing his trade to provide for them.
We learned to know by sad experience what
is home without a mother. The following
year, possibly impelled by anxiety for his
children, father married again, and going to
St. Louis a few months later to obtain more
profitable employement, died there very
suddenly. Thus the children were left com-
plete orphans at a time when the Church
was overwhelmed with trouble. The Prophet
and Patriarch had been cruelly martyred
and our Uncle John Taylor who was with
them at the time, and who, wounded almost
unto death, had been brought home from
Carthage by my father and others, was still
suffering from the effect of his wounds. The
persecutors of the Saints were still indulging
in threats, and a feeling of unrest prevailed
more or less among the Saints, portending
the troubles yet to come that resulted in
their general exodus from Illinois. This was
the condition of affairs in Nauvoo when we
were bereft of our father. Words can scarce-
ly express how utterly helpless and forlorn
our prospects as six orphan children—the
eldest not eighteen and the youngest not yet
four—then seemed to be. The Lord, how-
ever, did not desert us. He gave us hope
in the triumph of His cause and faith and
courage to remain true to it even at a time
when so many weakened and abandoned it.
George and I found a home with our aunt,
and Mary Alice, though scarcely more than
a child herself, soon married and provided
a home for the other three. We were scat-
tered then, but destined soon to be more so.
	Our experience as colonizers commenced
in a small way in Illinois, was soon to be
more extended. George and I were among
the early emigrants that followed the band
of pioneers, into Salt Lake Valley, in 1847
and after we had endured two years of hard-
ship and privation therein we were joined by
the rest of the family.
	We were all active in colonizing Salt Lake
Valley, and as time passed, under the direc-
tion of the Chnrch authorities (for it has
generally been in response to calls from them
that we have branched out) the members of
our family have figured conspicuously in
colonizing other places. Angus was among
the first settlers of Iron County, and he and
David and Leonora and I were among the
first colonizers of St. George. Leonora later
on helped to establish a settlement in Pine
Valley. Our Sister Elizabeth was among the
pioneers of Bear Lake Valley, where she
still resides. My daughter Anne M. was
among the colonizers of Juarez, in Mexico,
where she still lives. My son Angus has
figured (and still does) as one of the colo-
nizers of Big Horn, Wyoming. Mary Alice’s
daughter Leonora and her family occupy a
similar position in Teton Valley, Idaho.
Leonora’s sons George, David and Angus are
among the colonizers of White River, Neva-
da. David’s sons Lewis and Eugene are
helping to establish a colony at Fielding

[Column 2]
in Northern Utah, and several of the family
have figured more or less in Canada.
	This record alone of service as colonizers,
involving hardships and sacrifices untold,
would be a very great one indeed consider-
ing the very unpromising conditions that
surrounded the family in their youthful
days, as already related. This, however,
is not all, for no mention has been made of
the scores of thousands of miles mainly by
team, that have been traveled by different
members of the family, in locating others,
or encouraging others to establish colonies,
make comfortable homes and to organize
them for more effective work as members of
the Church.
	In conclusion I will say I have no regret
for the strenuous lives that have resulted
from our enlistment as a family in the Mas-
ter’s service, no regrets for the sacrifices
made, or hardships endured. While glad
that we have done so much, I wish it were
more. The cause is worthy of all that we
have done, and a thousand times more.
What the Lord has done for us as a family
can never be fully repaid, though we and our
children after us devote our whole lives to
his service. God grant that all mny ever
have the disposition to do so.
					St. George, Utah.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.
	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sarah
J. Williams Watson, wife of Hugh Watson, who
departed this life on the 9th of April, 1908, after
lingering for three months after a serious opera-
tion for cancer, January 8, 1908. She bore her
sufferings with much fortitude and calmness, and
we feel that she was greatly deserving the rest,
she has obtained.
	And we, the officers and members of the Sixth
Ward Relief Society, feel that in her passing away
we have lost an earnest and faithful worker in the
Relief Society cause, a firm and valued friend,
and be it
	Resolved, That we deeply sympathize with her
family in their deep bereavement and sorrow in
the loss of a loving and devoted wife and mother,
and we earnestly pray that the sweet and consol-
ing influence of the Holy Spirit may descend upon
them, to heal up the broken hearts and help them
to realize that He who rules the destinies of all,
doeth all things well; that although they are de-
prived of her sweet and loving presence for a
short time, yet will they be united again “some
sweet day,” if they are true and faithful to her
memory.
	Resolved, That we sincerely mourn her depar-
ture from us, but appreciate her past faithful
labors, and know that she has gone to receive
the reward for labor well performed. She held
the position of teacher for a number of years in
the Sixth Ward Relief Society, which duty she
performed in an energetic and exemplary manner
and for the past two years acted as stake mission-
ary of Pioneer Stake, and won the love and re-
spect of all those whom she associated with in
that capacity.
	Resolved that we place these resolu-
tions on our records, present a copy to the fam-
ily, and also send one to the Woman’s Exponent
for publication.
			Ellen R. Watson, President.
			Alice Butterworth,
			Margaret Leatham, Counselors.
			Esther H. Watson, Secretary.

	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sister
Eliza Bezzant, who died on the 31st, of March,
1908. Her death was calm and peaceful, falling
to sleep as a tired child.
	Sister Bezzant joined the Church in her native
country, and her kindness and devotion to the
Elders, while she remained there was never fail-
ing. Since coming here, her life has been spent
in doing good and helping to roll forth the great
work that she commenced in the old country, and
that she has been successful, all those who knew
her can amply testify.
	And we, the officers and members of the Sixth
Ward Relief Society, although we shall miss her
kindly presence, do not feel to mourn for her as
those who have no hope, for we know that she

[Column 2]
has lived to a good old age, that she has been
faithful and true, and that if we also are faithful
we shall meet and associate with her again.
	Resolved that we appreciate her past labors
among us, as a teacher many years, and at the
time of her demise and for many years previous,
held the position of district teacher which posi-
tion she filled with dignity and honor; and
	Resolved, That we sympathize with her family
and friends in the loss of a dear, devoted mother
and friend; and
	Resolved, That these resolutions be kept
on record, also sent to the Woman’s Exponent
for publication.
				Ellen R. Watson,
							President.
				Alice Butterworth,
				Margaret Leatham,
							Counselors.
				Esther H. Watson,
							Secretary.

	Sister Mary Ellen Smith was called from our
midst January the 10th, 1908, and was buried
January 13th. this being the 27th anniversary of
her married life. She was a faithful worker in
the Relief Society of Thatcher Idaho, being secre-
tary for many years. She also taught a class in
Sunday School for about sixteen years. She was
also president of the Primary some years, which
position she had t o resign on account of her
health failing. She was the wife of Brother Geo.
M. Smith, and daughter of Bishop Edwin D. and
Ellen W. Woolley. She was born in Salt Lake
City, Utah, December 1858, was married Janu-
ary 13th, 1881. She leaves a husband and six
children, one daughter and five sons, four of her
children preceded her to the spirit world, her
oldest son is now on a mission in the Southern
States. She was an energetic worker, and her
heart was in her work, whatever she did she ac-
complished with credit to herself and co-workers.

		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT,
	Whereas, our Heavenly Father in His wisdom
has seen fit to call from our midst our beloved
sister, Mary E. Smith, Secretary of the Thateher
Relief Society, we have resolved,
	Whereas our immediate association with her as
our secretary of the Relief Society of Thatcher we
feel it a duty to express our appreciation of her
labors in our society, her ever untiring example
as a worker in the cause of Christ. She was ever
ready to perform any duty assigned her, no mat-
ter what the call might be.
	She was a devoted wife and a kind, indulgent
mother, respected by all who knew her. Be it
	Resolved, We as sisters of this society do most
deeply mourn the loss of so faithful a sister, and
will try to follow the example she so worthily
set for us, and we are willing to say, “Thy will be
done.” Be it
	Resolved, That we extend our sympathy to the
bereaved family, of Sister Smith,her husband and
children, and ask God to comfort them in their
hour of need, that He will hear their prayers and
heal their wounds. Be it
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
read in our Relief Society meeting, and also
entered on the minutes of our meeting and record-
ed, a copy sent to the Woman’s Exponent, and
one to the bereaved family.
	Anna Anderson, President Amy-Toone, Sylva
Allsop, Counselors.


R. S. REPORTS.
SAN JUAN STAKE.
	San Juan Stake Relief Society Conference
was held at Monticello, Utah, May 16 and
17, 1908, and was very much blessed and
instructed through the visit of Sisters Harker
and Peters’ from head quarters. A general
stake conference was in session and the Re-
lief Society met at 4:30 p. m. both times.
President Mary N. Jones presiding.
	Four of the wards reported their organiza-
tions. There being live wards not represented.
	Sister Peters, a missionary in Salt Lake
Stake said “Let your light so shine that you
may gain respect for yourselves and lead
others to glorify the Lord. No greater mis-
sion is on earth than that of Motherhood.
I love to find daughters by the side of their
mothers; especially in household labors and
in Relief Society work.”


[Column 1]
	Sister Harriet B.Harker, who is a member
of the General Board, gave very timely in-
structions and expressed her pleasure to
meet with sisters of San Juan Stake. She
told the young mothers that the Society
needed their support and they in turn need-
ed the benefit of the Society. “Every
member is responsible for the condition of
the Society and the ward in general. Our
efforts are the source of our benefits. Of-
cers Meetings are a necessity.”
	Sister Harker also related a very practical
method of enlarging the Relief Society en-
rollment, which we hope to profit by.
				Eva L. Bayles,
					Secretary pro. term.

		GRANITE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Granite
Stake Relief Society was held at the Stake
Tabernacle, June 16, at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m.
Sister Julina L. Smith of the General Board
was with us, and a number of the Stake Of-
ficers. The attendance was fairly good at
both sessions though hardly up to our usual
average. The morning speaker was Elder
B. S. Hinckley, who gave an excellent talk
on the Book of Esther, showing up the beau-
ties of the life and lifework of the lovely
Jewish woman who was raised up to become
the means of liberating her people from Per-
sian rule and oppression. Elder Hinckley
paid an eloquent tribute to all noble and
heroic women.
	Sister Armeda S. Young added a few
comments on the same subject.
	The afternoon speakers were Sister Julina
L. Smith who spoke of the faithful life of
the mother of the Prophet Joseph and read
several extracts from her autobiography.
	Sister Louisa Morris Decker gave a num-
ber of personal recollections of the Prophet
Joseph, and days in “old Nauvoo” before
and after the martyrdom and bore a con-
vincing testimony to the divinity of the mis-
sion of the great Latter-day Prophet.
	Sister Alice Pitt read some letters of
Brigham Young written to various members
of his family, and commented thereon.
	The musical exercises consisted of solos
by Sister Beatrice C. Thomas and Lucy M.
Green, and a duet by Sisters Thompson and
Ballard. The stake Relief Society choir
rendered several selections.
	Sister Armeda S. Young, who has been
our Stake Secretary for so many years was
honorably released and her able assistant
Sister Prudence Brown was chosen as her
successor. Sister Ida White was also re-

[Column 2]
leased from her duties as organist,and Sister
Lilian E. Bruerton was sustained in that
position.
	A dainty lunch was served between meet-
ings, and a very happy and profitable time
was spent by all who attended our confer-
ence.
				Lucy M. H. Green,
			Secretary of the Stake Board.

			EMERY STAKE.

	The Emery Stake Relief Society confer-
ence was held at Ferron, May 13, and al-
though the weather was unfavorable and the
roads very muddy, the attendance exceeded
the average of our former conferences. Espe-
cially was there a good attendance of young
people. The hall was artistically prepared
and the floral decorations were profuse.
	The Relief Society stake officers were all
present. The morning session began at 10.
o’clock. President Mary A. Sorensen gave
a welcome address and also reported the
general condition of the Relief Society of the
stake.
	Miss Gertrude King rendered a beautiful
instrumental selection.
	Other speakers were Stake Counselor Ca-
roline M. Guymon, Bishop Newel K. Beal
and Elder Seth Allen.
	Sisters Nettie Crawford and Fannie Fox
sang ‘ Lead Me, O, My Savior.”
	Sister Lottie Duncan recited “The Way
to Heaven” and Sister Cheshire sang “Nau-
voo.”
	President Myra Hansen gave a good re-
port of the Ferron Relief Society.
	After the choir sang ‘‘Redeemer of Israel”
and the benediction had been pronounced
the curtain which divides the stage from the
hall, was raised, displaying tables spread
with the bounties of life and all were invited
to remain and partake of the same. This
was a pleasant surprise which the Ferron
Relief Society sisters, under the direction of
President Myra Hansen, had prepared. The
tables were beautifully decorated and the
young ladies, who waited on tables, were
cheerful and attentive.
	After two hours spent in dining, chatting
and shaking hands the afternoon session be-
gan. The speakers were President Mary A.
Sorensen, Counselor Mary J.King and Elder
Hyrum Zwahlen.
	About twenty little kindergarten children
sweetly sang “The Child and the River.”
	Reports were given by President Mary J.
Seely, Jane R. Cox and Treena Caldwell,
and a report of the Emery Relief Society was
read.
	Sister Olive Olsen gave a recitation en-
titled, “Shall We Know Each Other There?”
and Ruth May Fox rendered an instrumental
selection.
	A sketch of President Bathsheba W.Smith,
prepared by Sister Ada Petty, was read.
	A poem entitled to “To Aunt Em” was
read by the secretary.
	Choir sang “God Be With You Till We
Meet Again.”
	Benediction by Sister Annie Swensen.
			Annie Maria Allen,
						Secretary.

[Column 3]
		UINTAH STAKE
	Minutes of 45th Relief Society Confer-
ence of Uintah Stake of Zion held at Glines,
ward, May 9, 1908, President Sarah M. Col-
ton presiding with Counselor Agnes Ben-
nion in charge. 
	After usual opening exercises First Coun-
selor Nancy A. Colton said her heart went
out toward the sisters to see so many at
meeting on such a bleak day, She, in be-
half of the Stake Board welcomed the sis-
ters to conference. She was pleased to see
so many young sisters present, spoke of the
call that had come from headquarters for
some lady to attend the nurses’ class, but
at present we had found none to go. She
reported the stake, all the branches had
been visited except one, found part of them
in good condition.
	President Hannah Oldikirk reported Ver-
nal Relief Society.
	America M. Orser reported Jensen. Lec- 
ture from Naples Relief Society given by
Harriet Goodrich, entitled “Temperance.”
Address by Mrs. Annie K. Bartlett on the
lecture which had been given under the
name “Temperance.” A song from Glines
Relief Society by Mrs. Eddis Hair assisted
by Miss Hazel Johnson.
	Bishop’s Counselor George W. Parry
spoke of the evils of intemperance, referred
in particular to the misery that was brought
into the home because of liquor. He advised
the mothers to urge their children togo to the
temple to get married for time and eternity.
	President SarahM. Colton endorsed what
had been said, she also spoke on the sub-
ject of temperance, she believes in woman
suffrage, that we women should work shoul-
der to shoulder with our husbands. She did
not feel able to speak longer,she having been
sick for some length of time. She blessed
the sisters in their efforts to do right. 
	Closed with singing, and benediction
until 1 p. m.

	Afternoon session opened with singing,
and prayer and business matters. President
Phebe Hislop reported Maeser Relief Soci-
ety; Mary J. Hardy reported Glines: Emma
Roberts reported Naples; each president re-
ported her society in good condition, al-
though a great many families had moved to
the reservation.
	Recitation from Jensen Society given by
Miss Florence Billings, “Teacher’s Diadem.” 
Lecture from Vernal Relief Society, by Mrs.
Annie Black entitled “The life of Emmeline
B. Wells.” Song from Maeser Relief Society
by Clara C. Hacking, assisted by Miss Grace
Stringham and Mrs. Nellie Colton. Program
for the year read by the secretary Mrs.
Phebe A. Merkley. Mrs. Nancy A. Colton
gave advice on the program; she spoke of a
little book entitled “Bathsheba Smith’s
Blessing.” She had been enthused by the
lecture given this morning on Temperance.
She spoke at some length on the same.
Mrs. Mary Stringham had been well pleased
to be here with the sisters, but felt like she
had been out of school for some time for she
had not had the privilege of visiting the sis-
ters much since she left here, spoke of moth-
ers never to get so busy that they could not
have time to teach their children the Gospel.
	Mrs. Mary O'Neil bore her testimony and
spoke of the lessons we had had this day,
also spoke of the lessons given in Sabbath
School, Mrs. Agnes Bennion made a few
closing remarks and thanked all for their
presence. Conference adjourned for three
months with singing and benediction.
			Phebe A. Merkley, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


CLASS IN OBSTETRICS.
	Dr. Margaret C Robert's Class in
obstetrics will commence on Monday,
October 12th, 1908. For further in-
forma[-]ion communicate with Dr M.
C. Roberts 404 Templeton Eldg , Salt
Lake City, Phone 2002. 

			R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
			67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY LADIES READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS		TRY US
				OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 37.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST, 1908.					No. 2.


CONTENTS.
									PAGE
L. D. S. Women of the Past. Personal Im-
	pressions..................Emmeline B. Wells	9
Blessing Penned Long Ago............................	11
An Old Letter.............................Emma Smith	11
A Beautiful Testimony......Johanna Eggertsen	14
Delegate from Utah at the Woman’s Congress
	Dr. Roumania B. Penrose.......................	14
Relief Society Reunion...................................	15
Relief Society Reports: Bear Lake—Rigby		15
Orbituary.........................................................	16
I. W. S. A........................................................	16
Editorial:—Relief Society Nurse Class..........	12
	In Memoriam of Bishop William B.
	Preston ...................................................	12
	Editorial Notes........................................	12
Poetry:—Old Mothers................The Century	9
	Love’s Throne.................Lydia D. Alder	11
	Julia Ward Howe.........Woman’s Journal	11


OLD MOTHERS. 
I love old mothers—mothers with white hair,
And kindly eyes, and lips grown softly sweet
With murmured blessings over sleeping babes. 
There is a something in their quiet grace
That speaks the calm of Sabbath afternoons;
A knowledge in their deep, unfaltering eyes
That far outstretches all philosophy. 
Time with caressing touch about them weaves
The silver-threaded fairy shawl of age. 
While all the echoes of forgotten songs
Seem joined to lend a sweetness to their
	speech. 
Old mothers—as they pass with slow-timed step,
Their trembling hands cling gently to youth’s
	strength;
Sweet mothers, as they pass one sees again
Old garden walks, old roses and old lanes. 
							The Century.


[Column 1]
	L. D. S. WOMEN OF THE PAST.
	PERSONAL IMPRESSIONS.
	BY EMMELINE B. WELLS.

	In continuing the personal impressions of
women of renown in this dispensation of an
early date in Kirtland, Ohio, one cannot
choose those more deserving of a conspicu-
ous place on the roll of honor than the
“Fielding Sisters,” Mary and Mercy some-
times alluded to as the “Mary and Martha”
of this dispensation.
	Mary Smith and Mercy Thompson have
been spoken of in history as apostolic wom-
en, fore-ordained so to speak, to become fam-
ous in the annals of the Church with which
they were identified when young girls.
	Very few among the young women of to-
day, who reverence President Joseph F.
Smith, know of his mother’s origin and re-
markable life. It is surprising considering
how much good material for life incidents
there is in her career, that more has not been
written concerning her; especially in this day
when one hears so much of the mothers of
great men of the world, past and present.
	Sister Mary Fielding Smith had passed
through many trying ordeals, in fact had
been tried as gold in the furnace of fire seven
times purified, before I had ever met her,

[Column 2]
and one could almost see sorrow stamped
upon her countenance. Although outwardly
she was cheerful and always strenuously oc-
cupied with absorbing work.
	Strength of character was written in every
lineament of her face, and she had a com-
manding figure; a sort of martial bearing,
the carriage of a woman who could lead an
army to battle.
	Of all the sisters whose severe trials and
hardships have been almost beyond human
endurance, it seems to me Sister Mary
Smith’s have been greatest. And yet her
faith never wavered, her courage never fal-
tered. The Spartan mothers so lauded in
history could not have been more heroic
than this mother in Israel, whose name
might with all propriety be emblazoned
in letters of gold on the Smith scroll of
fame.
	Under all circumstances in which she was
placed however trying, she was equal to the
occasion and triumphed; she scarcely needed
counsel for she was ever instructed from the
One above, and yet she was obedient to
proper authority.
	Not only was she of a religious nature by
inheritance; but also by early home training,
and discipline. It is well known that in
that day young girls did not have the educa-
tional advantages that are now accorded
them, but the Fieldings were people of the
educational class, and the best opportunities
of advancement for girls were given them;
and great pains was taken with young girls
at that period to acquire ease and grace of
manner, and proper deportment and polite-
ness, at all times. The cultivation of moral
development and preparation for home life
was a part of every young girl’s training, that
she might be a model wife, and even if she
remained a spinster know how to manage a
household.
	In this respect most of the women of that
day and age excelled those of a later time,
when more attention was given to the school
and to music, especially the piano, and less
to the preparation for the home and family.
	The Gospel as we all know does inspire
its devout followers, to bear all life’s bur-
dens with greater humility, and power of en-
durance, than any moral teaching however
excellent; yet in the case of Mary Fielding
she had this foundation to build upon, and
who shall say that she was not better pre-
pared for the many vicissitudes of her late
years for having the cultivation of those
homely virtues in her early career, so thor-
oughly grounded as to be a part of her very
self. Be that as it may, all of us who have
lived many long years, and have made good
use af our opportunities of studying human
nature must acknowledge, that the founda-
tion of a really well-balanced dominant and
masterful character is laid in early life.
	Looking back upon the time when I first
heard of and met Sister Mary Smith, I re-
call the remarks of sisters, who knew her
much more intimately; women near her own
age, while I was very young, and the impres-
sions I received from them were those that
obtained with me when I met her again, and
more often here in the valley, in the home
of Sister Vilate Kimball.

[Column 3]
	She was a woman who believed in the
charity that teaches people, able to work at
all, to help themselves, and she would and
did furnish employment and food, raiment
and shelter for many homeless and friend-
less ones, when other women perchance sit-
uated as she was would have asked for, and
would have needed assistance. This alone
gives a key to her selfhelpfulness and the
superior capability she possessed of hand-
ling means, and directing the energies and
activities of others; and when a woman can
handle people and means so wisely, and dis-
cretly without capital, except such as ac-
cumulates through her own perseverance and
enterprise, is it not positive proof of genuine
business ability and of an excellent knowl-
edge of controlling forces in life with un-
common skill and diplomacy?
	Sister Smith was not a woman who made
a noise about what she had done, or was
doing, but was very quiet and self-possessed,
and in fact reticent, she did not ask favors,
but was more ready to bestow them, than to
receive.
	She was very exemplary in her tithing and
donations, and in fact in all Church obliga-
tions. Her example is this respect is a very
striking illustration of woman’s independ-
ence and capability to stand alone, and
maintain her position, as the head of a
household, when circumstances required it;
and in this respect she succeeded admirably
with the help of the Lord on whom she re-
lied at all times and in all places.
	The one circumstance of her journey
across the plains, which she undertook in
face of almost superhuman obstacles is illus-
trative of the masterful character of this
wonderful woman, and deserves to be en-
graved conspicuously where our dainty
young women of today could read it when
they complain of daily tasks.
	In 1848, Sister Mary Fielding Smith de-
termined to come with the Saints who were
leaving Winter Quarters on the Missouri
river for the valley of the Great Salt Lake;
after she had strained every nerve as it were
to procure teams and means to go forward
with the company, and with such an experi-
ence, in dealing with cattle, steers, cows and
calves as few women know anything of, her
principal help being very young boys, Jos-
eph F. now President of the Church was
then not quite ten years old, his elder broth-
er John now Patriarch of the Church not
sixteen, Sister Mary Smith finally reached
the Elk Horn river, where the companies
were being organized for the plains, and re-
ported to Heber C. Kimball as having start-
ed for the valley. He assigned her to a Cap-
tain of Fifty who questioned her as to her
outfit, and learning just what number of
teams, cattle and so on, she had, the Cap-
tain said, addressing her, “It is folly for you
to start in this manner; you never can make
the journey, and if you try it you will be a
burden upon the company the whole way.
My advice to you is, to go back to Winter
Quarters and wait until you can get help.”
	Sister Mary Smith replied, with apparent
complacency “Father—I will beat you to
the valley, and will ask no help from you
either.”


[Column 1]
	“After this she sent back and succeeded in
getting by buying and hiring on credit, seve-
ral yoke of oxen from brethren who were not
able to emigrate that year, and when the
companies were ready to start she and her
family were better prepared for the journey.”
	The writer knows, all the difficulties en-
countered of this tedious journey across the
plains that year, when women were taken
care of, and protected by able-bodied men;
and also by observation and acquaintance
with women, who traveled depending upon
their own exertions and watchfulness of
every detail, how strenuous the circum-
stances were through which these pioneer
women had to pass, and how brave and un-
flinching scores of them were in the midst of
such scenes as they must of necessity now
and then encounter.
	But to continue the relation of Sister Mary
Smith’s victory; without enumerating the
many disasters by the way, when cattle were
lost and Indians and buffalo and other wild
creatures came down upon us “like the wolf
on the fold,” “one day driving slowly through
the sand and dust near the Sweetwater the
hot sun pouring down upon the poor ani-
mals hauling heavy loads,” one of Sister
Mary Smith’s best oxen laid down in the
yoke, rolled over on his side and stiffened
out his legs spasmodically, evidently in the
throes of death.”
	All the teams behind were stopped of
course, and people came forward to know
what was the matter. “The Captain on
ahead came back to know what was wrong. 
No one supposed the ox would recover, and
the Captain’s first words were, “He is dead
there is no use working with him; we’ll have
to fix up some way to take the widow along;
I told her she would be a burden upon the
company.”
	Meanwhile Sister Mary Smith was looking
for a bottle of consecrated oil she had in one
of the wagons, and just then came with it,
and asked her brother Joseph Fielding and
the other brethren to administer to the ox,
thinking that the Lord would raise him up.”
“They did so pouring a portion of oil on the
top of his head, between and back of the
horns, and all laid hands upon him, admin-
istering the ordinance as they would have
done to a human being that was sick. In a
moment he gathered up his legs, and arose
to his feet, and traveled right off as well as
ever. He was not even unyoked from his
mate.”
	September 22nd the company crossed over
“Big Mountain” near the valley; the western
side of it was very steep and they had to
rough-lock the hind wheels, and the forward
cattle were turned loose and only the wheel-
ers retained on the wagons; being anxious
to shorten the journey now they were so
near, they drove on until late into the night,
and camped near the foot of “Little Moun-
tain.” During the night several of Sister
Mary Smith’s cows that had been turned
loose were lost in the brush. The next morn-
ing John Smith went back to hunt for them. 
The Captain gave orders for starting earlier
than usual, although he knew Sister Mary
Smith would be obliged to wait till John
came with the lost cattle. The company
went on and she was left alone, with her
family. John was long in returning and she
could see the company ahead toiling far up
the mountain. At this time it seemed as
though her prediction would ingloriously
fail. But as the company neared the sum-
mit of the mountain a cloud burst, and the
rain poured down in torrents, causing utter
confusion. The cattle refused to pull, and

[Column 2]
to save the situation, the teams were un-
hitched and wheels blocked; the teamsters
run to shelter, and the storm drove the cattle
in every direction; after it was over it was a
day’s work to find the cattle and get them
together. Meantime John had come with
the stray cattle, the teams were hitched up,
and Sister Mary Smith and her family, with
teams and wagons climbed the mountain,
passed the company, and came on, arriving
in the valley twenty hours ahead of the Cap-
tain. “And thus was her prophecy fulfilled.”
	This little narrative needs no comment it
speaks for itself. Reminiscences of pioneer
women of the Church would fill volumes. It
is not only men who paved the way to make
Utah and the surrounding localities what it
is, but women have borne their share of the
burdens and hardships. We would not like
to carry the impression that because Sister
Mary Smith was heroic and self-sustaining,
and business like in methods and achieve-
ment, that she was heroic and self-sustaining,
and business like in methods and achieve-
ment, that she was in the least degree mas-
culine, such was not the case, she was
womanly to the heart’s core, she loved her
husband with intense devotion, she suffered
almost more than martyrdom in her feelings,
but she rose to the occasion in every trial,
and her prophetic nature no doubt helped
her stand the test of adversity and to prosper
where many weaker ones signally failed. 
These are but a small part of the personal
impressions made upon me of this sainted
woman. Her name must be handed down
in history, as one of the bravest heroines of
that period of the exodus from Nauvoo, and
the subsequent pioneer journey to the Great
Salt Lake Valley. A woman of mark and
distinction, not only in rare instances where
great victories are to be wrought-out, but in 
the days of the severest persecutions and
mobbings of Ohio and Missouri. Through
all these she came forth unscathed, a con-
queror to succeed! a mother to the mother-
less as well as her own! she kept the home
pure and bright and with her marvelous skill
and frugal management, plenty for her own
and to spare for those in need of true chari-
ty. Sister Mary Smith lived a magnificent
and glorious life, there was much of shadow
more than of sunshine in it, and many times
storms, tempests, and sometimes tragedies. 
Such lives are the grandest triumphs when
all is over and even “Death is swallowed up
in victory.”
	It is not possible to write of such women
without strong emotion, and a vivid appreci-
ation of the overwhelming conflicts of human
nature, with the higher soulfulness that suf-
fered and conquered.

Our vision of the infinite, afar,
	Is quickened and we draw so near
We almost see the gates of life ajar,
	And angel voices shouting praises hear;
And we interpret in our own poor way
	Some of the doubts and mysteries we’ve seen
But in the light of an eternal day
	Then we shall know why all these things have
		been.

Mary Fielding Smith, born July 21, 1801,
at Honidon, Bedfordshire, England, died in
Salt Lake City, Utah, September 21, 1852.

	Sister Mercy Rachel Fielding Thompson,
younger sister of Sister Mary Fielding Smith,
was much better known among the people
here than her older sister, having lived in
this city fifty years and more after the death
of her sister Mary. 
	Sister Thompson was a woman of exceed-
ing great faith, one who loved to converse
upon spiritual subjects, was familiar with
the Bible and with all church works. It

[Column 3]
was her delight to talk of the Prophet
Joseph and his brother Hyrum and the won-
derful manifestations of their power and
authority, that were quite familiar to her
from association with the gifted Prophets,
Seers and Revelators. 
	Sister Thompson had been connected
with the Relief Society from its inception
and her estimate of woman and her strength
of mind and active energies was of the very
highest, and too, from believing that the
Prophet Joseph Smith had conferred upon
the sisterhood great blessings, that were to
be unfolding from time to time, and that
were in the process of development of great
intellectual and spiritual progress.
	Sister Mercy Thompson, the younger sis-
ter of Sister Mary Fielding Smith, of the
famous English Fielding Family, was in
many respects very unlike her senior sis-
ter, although she possessed some of the
same traits of character. Sister Thomp-
son lived many years in this city and
was very widely known, by her re-
markable work among the sick and afflicted,
which endeared her to many hearts, and
like some other benevolent women of her
time she was endowed as it were with the
gift of healing, she went much among the
poor and lowly of the Latter-day Saints, and
in many homes, she was like a ministering
angel; and in those early times in the val-
ley, when all were comparatively short of
provisions and means, she always seemed
to have wherewith to help others. 
	Sister Mercy Thompson was indeed a wo-
man of mark. In studying her character
one finds much that was unusual in her de-
velopment. Certainly she had like her il-
lustrious sister Mary the best education
given to young women of that time, and the
same sort of home training and discipline,
but the writer believes that the training of
a large family of children, such as Mary
Smith had to rear, and being in the midst of
such circumstances as the work necessitates,
brings out and strengthens more powers of
the soul and consciousness, than the quiet
life of a small household. At any rate its
tendency is to round out one’s character in
many directions. 
	Sister Thompson was of a distinctively
religious nature, one who would make al-
most any sacrifice to assist in building tem-
ples and other charitable and philanthropic
enterprises of a like nature. 
	She was a woman who had made the
most of her opportunities, she had married
younger in life than her sister Mary, and her
husband was a man of literary attainments,
and not having a large family to rear like
her elder sister, she had more time at her
disposal to cultivate her mind and spiritual
energies. We know moreover she was natur-
ally self-reliant, industrious and enterpris-
ing, and possessed the quality of thrift and
a sort of assertive independence. 
	Our sisters familiar with the Relief So-
ciety work can remember how zealous Sister
Thompson was in this field of labor, and
the untiring ministrations of charity that ex-
tended in a wider field than her own par-
ticular locality in the 16th ward and its
vicinity, but she was more, if I may say so,
more of a zealous devotee of temple work,
and sought by all the means in her power to
promote it by giving liberally of her means
and in various other ways. 
	Some people wait for opportunities to
come, but Sister Thompson sought for ways
and means to carry out her desires concern-
ing work for the dead, and with this end in
view in the summer of 1871, she visited


[Column 1]
Canada, the temporary home of the Field-
ings after leaving England, and while there
sojo[-]rning among her old friends and her
husband's relatives, collected much ma-
terial to add to the family record of the
Thompsons.
	She returned in March, 1872, and in Oc-
tober of the same year she started again on
a trip to England for similar purposes; ac-
companying President George A. Smith and
the Palestine party as far as England. Ar-
riving there she visited the home and scenes
of her girlhood, and numerous relatives and
friends, though she made it her principal
business to gather reliable genealogy for her
Temple records. During this time she bore
her testimony of the restoration of the Gos-
pel in this dispensation, wherever and when-
ever opportunity presented itself, and there
can be no doubt that such seed scattered
abroad will some day spring up and bear
fruit. Sister Thompson returned in June,
1873.
	Travels and journeyings of this kind give
a broader and more comprehensive view of
life, and are educational in the best sense
of the word; equipping one with more ma-
terial for doing good and rendering aid, and
service to others in the great work of this
age, when so much is to be accomplished by
the Saints both for the living and the dead.
	Sister Thompson was not a woman to
hide her light under a bushel, but to let it
shine abroad to the enlightening of her co-
laborers in the vineyard of the Lord, and so
we found her after these missions (if such
we may call them) doing more for her fel-
low-workers than ever before.
	The one virtue or characteristic that
seemed most beautiful of all in her later
life was the patience and resignation, which
was manifest in the fortitude with which she
bore pain and suffering, when she who had
been so active and apparently strong, be-
came more or less helpless, and dependent
upon others to assist her in moving about
(even in the room) when she could move at
 all. In this she showed the true spirit of
heroism. Not only did she bear her afflic-
tion bravely, but when her friends called
upon her, the atmosphere of her presence,
seemed to be of one being perfected through
pain and affliction.
	The sisters who called on her to express
sympathy came away comforted in the as-
surance that suffering had sanctified the
soul, so full was she of blessings for all and
praise to God for all His mercies and good-
ness; and one recalls in this connection the
words of the poet who wrote:
" 'Tis alone of his appointing
That our feet on thorns have trod.
Suffering, pain, renunciation
Only brings us nearer God."
	On June 15, 1898, a number of sisters went
to the home of Sister Thompson with hearts
filled wit[-] love and blessing for this aged
sister, to cheer and gladden her, and con-
gratulations for the birthday anniversary,
bringing appropriative gifts and choice flow-
ers in abundance.
	The day was spent in charming converse,
Sister Thompson relating many incidents of
the days of Nauvoo and those earlier scenes
of sacrifice and suffering for conscience sake.
Those dear sisters who were there on that
day can never forget the heavenly influence
that pervaded the room and seemed to fill
the hearts of all present. Three months
from that day Sister Thompson passed away,
and many of those present on that memor-

[Column 2]
able occasion have since gone to join the
hosts behind the veil.
"Those who have battled for truth with their
mind and might
With their garments clean and their armor
bright."
	Mercy Rachel Fielding Thompson, born
in Preston, England, June 15, 1807; died
in Salt Lake City, Utah, September 15, 1898.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LOVE’S THRONE.

Do you love? then trust!
Tells you true your heart;
“Trust, have faith and trust,”
Criticized unjust,
Can you see your love?
Shield her then you must.

None may understand
Why you love her so,
Why you hold her hand.
Hearts are brittle things
Easily they break,
Pierced by cruel stings.

Then away love flies,
Far, so far away;
Heeding not your cries,
Cherished, will love stay
Ope your heart disclose
There his throne alway.
			LYDIA D. ALDER.


JULIA WARD HOWE.

She championed the cause of freedom,
	With the might of her living power,
When the slumbering nation wakened,
To the solemn need of the hour;

And fought her bloodless battles,
	With the aid of tongue and pen,
Till the shackles fell from the chattels,
	Aad they knew themselves as men.

Before the nation’s councils,
	Like a pilot in a storm,
She breasted the waves of oppression
	To achieve some grand reform.

She saw with a clarified vision
	The needs of the human race,
And gave her life to its service
	With infinite love and grace.

She has worn no chevrons of tinsel,
	Nor silken banners waved,
And the tears of her grateful sisters
	Were all the jewels she craved.

If ever her feet grew weary,
	Or her heart was heavy and sore,
She remembered the loving Master
	Trod the selfsame way before.

Then she girded anew for the conflict,
	And looked for light from above,
Renewed her soul at the fountain
	That springs from Eternal Love.

She hath seen the dawn of the morning,
	And the sun of equality rise;
God grant that its noonday splendor
	May gladden her waiting eyes.

May they live till the angel of Justice
	Spreads her pinions from sea to sea,
Till woman’s appeal for freedom
	Results in her liberty!
				WOMAN’S JOURNAL.


A BLESSING PENNED LONG AGO.
(The writer long since dead.)
	First of all that I would crave as the rich-
est of heaven’s blessings would be wisdom
from my Heavenly Father bestowed daily,
so that whatever I might do or say, I could


not look back at the close of the day wi[-]h
regret, nor neglect the performance of any
act that would bring a blessing. I desire
the Spirit of God to know and understand
myself, that I might be able to overcome
whatever of tradition or nature that would
not tend to my exaltation in the eternal
worlds. I desire a fruitful, active mind,
that I may be able to comprehend the de-
signs of God, when revealed through His
servants without doubting. I desire the
spirit of discernment, which is one of the
promised blessings of the Holy Ghost.
	I particularly desire wisdom to bring up
all the children that are, or may be com-
mitted to my charge, in such a manner that
they will be useful ornaments in the King-
dom of God, and in a coming day arise up
and call me blessed.
	I desire prudence that I may not through
ambition abuse my body and cause it to be-
come prematurely old and care-worn, but
that I may wear a cheerful countenance, live
to perform all the work I covenanted to per-
form in the spirit-world and be a blessing to
all who may in anywise need aught at my
ha[-]ds.
	I desire with all my heart to honor and
respect my husband as my head, to ever live
in his confidence and by acting in unison
with him retain the place which God has
given me by his side, and I ask, my Heav-
enly Father, that through humility, I may
be enabled to overcome the curse which was
pronounced upon the daughters of Eve. I
desire to see my kindred and friends em-
brace the principles of Eternal Truth, that I
may rejoice with them in the blessings
which God has in store for all who are will-
ing to be obedient to His requirements.
Finally, I desire that whatever may be my
lot through life I may ever be enabled to ac-
knowledge the hand of God in all things.
	These desires of my heart were called
forth by Joseph sending me word*
***that he had not
time to write as he would like, but I could
write out the best blessing I could think of
and he would sign the same on his return.


AN OLD LETTER.
			Nauvoo, Oct. 18, 1844.
Brother Heywood:
	Sir, I send by the stage twenty-two bags,
wishing Brother Hollingshead to send some
oats by the St. Bt. Osprey, as soon as is
convenient. The brick store will be empty
next week, and I would like well if you
could find it advantageous to your interest to
fill it with goods and groceries this fall, the
rent will be low. I think it a good time to
commence an establishment of that kind
here now, as there is a number of merchants
about to leave here soon.
	My family are all in good health at pres-
ent, and the brethren are generally well, with
the exception of Amasa Lyman, who has
been very sick, but is better now.
	My best respects to your family and all
our friends. Tell Mrs. Heywood I shall
keep those shoes she gave to Mr. Smith as a
memento both of her and my husband, too,
for I can never see them without remember-
ing them both.
			Respectfully your
				Most obedient
					EMMA SMITH.
Mr. J. Heywood.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON; Assistant Editor.
        
	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, 1$.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah,
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.	-	-	AUGUST, 1908.


RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE CLASS.
	To those intending to take the nursing
course taught by Dr. M. C. Roberts under
the direction of the General Board of Relief
Society it is desired that they communicate
as early as possible with the Secretary of
that department Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie
55 North, West Temple Street, so that suit-
able homes may be provided for them dur-
ing their course of study where they can
either pay for their boa[-]d or earn sufficient
to cover that obligation.
	The class will start September 21st, due
notice will be given later in regard to the
plaee where class will be held and other
particulars.


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.
	BISHOP WILLIAM B. PRESTON.
	“Beyond the poet’s sweet dream lives
	The eternal epic of the man.”

	How true are these lines just quoted of
Bishop Preston, a man graced with every
quality and attribute of soul, to lift him to
the highest place in social and business life;
richly endowed by nature with that geni-
ality that is so rare among men of a com-
mercial character, but where it exists spon-
taneously as with Bishop Preston gives the
impression of true sincerity, and not simply
a desire to be courteous.
	Although living many years in the West,
he never lost the spirit of gallantry that is so
apparent in the well-bred men of the South
and particularly Virginia.
	That Bishop Preston belonged to one of
the oldest and most aristocratic families of
Virginians of the early settlements in that
locality the writer is aware from history.
	One might go on enumerating his noble
qualities of head and heart, his generosity
in giving, his hospitality which for many
years has been proverbial among this peo-
ple, and withal his loyalty to the Church of
Latter-day Saints of which he was a faithful
member and officer of trust, and yet one
could not do justice in words of appreciation
to his memory. A true lover of his country,
loyal to its government and institutions, and
seeking to promote all its interests, broad-
minded in the best sense of the word. How

[Column 2]
can one sum up his nobility of soul, his ten-
derness in the home circle, and to all with
whom he had to deal, especially women,
young or old.

	“Tho’ modest on his unembarras’d brow
	Nature had written—Gentleman.”

	Bishop Preston never hesitated to under-
take hard work; pioneering, colonizing in
the West as he has done requires men of
strong character and determination; he was
a good leader among men, and no doubt one
of the finest business managers in this wes-
tern land, this new country as to speak. He
was selected at different times to fill some
of the most important and trustworthy posi-
tions, and he never failed in his allegiance
to the people, or the trusts committed to his
care.
	William Bowker Preston was born Nov. 24,
1830, in Virginia, on the family plantation,
and became familiar with all the duties and 
responsibilities of a Southern planter.
	In 1852 he went on a trip to California in
the time of the gold fever and studied the
mining situation in Sacramento, but after
some experience in digging for gold, started
a plantation in the Yolo valley, where he
met the family of Brother John Thatcher
and became a convert to the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints of which the
Thatcher family were members. Subse-
quently and not long afterwards he came to
Utah, at the time of Johnston’s army, when
President Brigham Young issued a call to
all of the members of the Church to assemble
in the Rocky Mountains. Wm. B. Preston with
the Thatcher family arrived here by way of
San Bernardino Jan. 1, 1858, and soon after,
he married Miss Harriet Ann Thatcher, Feb.
24, 1858. The marriage proved a happy one
judging from their beautiful home life, and
unbounded hospitality in entertaining of
which hundreds and thousands of Latter-day
Saints have partaken.
	After that time Brother Preston became
identified with large public interests, and
was in constant service whether at home or
abroad filling missions; there were always
responsible positions to be filled and he was
qualified to undertake whatever labor in the
Church he was called to perform, with honor
and credit to the Church and all concerned.
	Finally as a climax of his long career in
positions of trust and confidence, he was
chosen to succeed Bishop Edward Hunter
as Presiding Bishop of the Church in 1884, 
this gave him opportunities to be known to
all the people of the Latter-day Saints. The
years that followed this appointment were
weighted with heavy responsibilities requir-
ing great wisdom, prudence and knowledge
of business principles, to cope with the con-
ditions and circumstances in which the
Church affairs were placed in consequence
of adverse laws and various grievances that
had to be met and dealt with.
	Through all those trying years of his
stewardship Bishop Preston bore his share of
the responsibility with diplomatic energy
and heroic fortitude. He was unwavering
in his devotion to duty, and allegiance to
the Church. He maintained the dignity of 
his calling as Presiding Bishop so as to win
the admiration of all his associates in office,
fulfilling every duty to the entire satisfaction
of all the people concerned in Church inter-
ests at large; so far as it is possible for man
to do, certainly with unusual and intelligent
ability in that line of work which requires
diligence, patience and the quality of leader-
ship; an influence of power in management
that promotes peace and harmony among

[Column 3]
men of many countries with the attendant
customs and traditions.
	Bishop Preston has left a noble record on
the tablets of time.
	His memory will be engraven upon the
hearts of his co-workers and the Saints
generally. His wife and family to whom
he was so deeply attached must feel keenly
the loss of his dignified presence in the home
circle, and his intense sympathy with all the
griefs and sorrows that come into the lives
of those near and dear, but they doubtless
realize he has gone to his rest among the
blest, where some of the nearest and dearest
of his own kindred and children had gone
before him. “Blessed are the dead that die
in the Lord, yea from henceforth they rest
from their labors and their works do follow
them.”
	Bishop Preston departed this life on Sun-
day afternoon August 2, 1908, at 3 p.m. He
was sojourning for a change during the hot
weather with a part of his family at a sum-
mer resort in Cottonwood, he had not been
very well for some time but not seriously ill
until the crisis came, and he passed peace-
fully away like “one lying down to pleasant
dreams.” Such deaths are glorious, and yet
those near and dear must mourn, it is human
nature to feel keenly the loss of the society
and companionship of those we love. Brother
and Sister Preston had been married over
half a century, fifty years last February, and
to the wife bereft of the sweet companion-
ship of a beloved husband, the father of her
children awakens the sympathy of her friends
and the community, and yet we know “He
giveth his beloveth sleep.

He sees when their footsteps falter, when their
	hearts grow weak and faint;
He marks when their strength is failing, and lis-
	tens to each complaint;
He bids them rest for a season, for the pathway
	has grown too steep;
And folded in fair, green pastures, He giveth his
	loved ones sleep,
*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
Weep not that their toils are over, weep not that
	their race is run;
God grant we may rest as calmly, when our work
	like theirs is done!
Till then we would yield with gladness our treas-
	ures to Him to keep,
And rejoice in the sweet assurance, He giveth his
	loved ones sleep.”

	Bishop Preston’s body was brought to this
city and after he was arrayed in his beauti-
ful white robes and placed in the casket he
was taken to the Assembly Hall which had
been tastefully draped in white; many floral
offerings of lovely blossoms adorned the cas-
ket, gifts of loving friends and associates.
	Impressive funeral services were held at
one p. m. President Joseph F. Smith was
present, the Tabernacle choir rendering the
sweetest music. Eloquent tributes to his
life and character were paid by the First
Presidency and Apostles, and after the con-
clusion of the services here the body was
taken to Logan for burial in the family plat
there, where members of his family had prev-
iously been buried.
	Funeral services were also held in the
Tabernacle at Logan, the city where so many
years of his active life had been passed in the
Master’s service.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	There have been so many entertainments
that ought to be mentioned in this little pa-
per, and so litte space to give to each one
that we have decided to make only brief
notes and apologize to our patrons for not


[Column 1]
giving fuller accounts of interesting social
events.
	June 4, 1908, the 40th anniversary of
the marriage of Brother and Sister W. B. Dou-
gall was celebrated in their handsome new
home N. State Street, in a most beautiful
way without ostentation or show. The
rooms were artistically decorated with roses
principally, as June is the month of roses.
Old friends were invited to participate in
the festivities, and many fervent congratu-
lations were offered as well as gifts and
blessings. The great feature of enjoyment
was the choice vocal and instrumental music
exquisitely rendered for the delectation of
the guests, the selections being made from
old masters. Another feature that will al-
ways mark the event as of great significance
was the eloquent prayer offered by Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith, dedicating by re-
quest the new home of Brother and Sister
Dougall. The evening was rainy outside,
but within all was peaceful and enjoyable.
The bride of forty years wore her wedding
gown of long ago, and carried a bouquet of
bride roses, and looked as charmingly happy
as though she were in reality the young
bride. The bridegroom bore his honors as
grandly as he could have done on that great
occasion forty years before.
She full of grace and rich in happiness.
He with the sober years of manliness.
	A reception was tendered United States
Senator Reed Smoot, Tuesday evening, June
9, at the home of Brother and Sister Jacob
F. Gates. The affair was unique in many
respects, and rather informal, and very de-
lightful. Hon. Thomas Hull was master of
ceremonies and did the honors admirably,
relieving the host and hostess, so that their
pleasure was enhanced instead of hindered.
Clive’s band furnished excellent music, and
the speeches were short and interesting,
wit and brilliancy interspersed. The speak-
ers were Elder J. G. McQuarrie of the East-
erm Mission, President Joseph F. Smith,
President F. M. Lyman, Hon. Reed Smoot
and Mrs. Reed Smoot, who gave a glimpse
of Washington society, and a real Utah
home in Washington. There were recita-
tions by young talented women, Maud May
Babcock and Mrs. Belle Ross, Apostle H.
J. Grant sang “The flag without a stain,”
and there were other distinguished gentle-
men who spoke briefly and interestingly.
Light refreshments were served during the
evening. Among the distinguished ladies
present we recall the venerable lady Presi-
dent Bathsheba W. Smith, Sister Rhoda
Lyman, and many younger women, wives
of Apostles, and Presidents of Stakes.
Brother and Sister Gates are to be congratu-
lated on having made a perfect success of
this reception.
	Wednesday, June 10, 1908, annual meet-
ing of the Daughters of the Revolution, Utah
State Society, met in room 509 Templeton
Building, to elect officers for the ensuing
year. After preliminany exercises and the
transaction of some business, the following
ladies were elected by unanimous vote of
the members present: Regent, Mrs. Elizabeth
R. Wright; First Vice-Regent, Mrs. Emily Y.
Clawson; Second Vice-Regent, Mrs. Lucy W.
Smith; Recording Secretary, Mrs. Clarissa
Y. Spencer; Corresponding Secretary, Mrs.
Julia F. Lund; Treasurer, Mrs. Emily H.
Willey; Registrar. Mrs. Isabel M. W. Sears;
Historian, Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth;
Chaplain, Mrs. Rachel Campbell. After
the officers were elected the annual meet-

[Column 2]
ing was adjourned for one year, and notice
given that the next regular meeting would
be held on Wednesday, September 16, as
usual after summer vacation.
	Thursday, June 11, was the formal open-
ing of Whitney Hall, a new building erected
in the 18th ward of this city, adjoining the
Ward Chapel. The occasion was some-
thing of a house-warming and was in a way
informal, as the hall is not yet to be dedi-
cated. There were opening exercises of
prayer and singing conducted by the Bishop,
T. A. Clawson, and an eloquent address
suited to the occasion by Elder Orson F.
Whitney, Bishop of the ward for many
years, giving a sort of history of the ward in
the past and explanations as to the name,
all of which was very briefly summed up
necessarily. President Joseph F. Smith
spoke feelingly and reverently of those who
had rendered service in the ward in the past,
and congratulated those who had assisted in
getting so commodious a place for social en-
tertainments. There was excellent music,
vocal and instrumental, followed by danc-
ing and supper. At some future time we
hope to give a good sketch of this building
named for the late Bishop Orson F. Whit-
ney and his illustrious grandfather Presid-
ing Bishop Newel K. Whitney.
	Friday Evening, June 12, the General
Board of the Young Ladies M. I. A. gave a
reception in Whitney Hall to the visiting
Stake officers, the First Presidency, Apos-
tles and Church officials, and the General
officers of the Relief Society and Primary.
It was a very grand affair on a broad scale,
and the music, dancing and refreshments
were all of a high order of excellence. The
spirit of unity and good fellowship was par-
ticularly apparent, and it equaled if it did
not surpass, the yearly entertainments or re-
ceptions of previous years. It is a sort of
Herculean undertaking to give these large
affairs and make them a success. Our young
ladies however have never failed to give sat-
isfaction to all invited, find it is a great
pleasure to entertain so royally those who
are laboring so effectually in the various lo-
calities, far away from headquarters when
they come once a year to receive instruction
from those who preside over all.
	Saturday, June 13, 1908, was Primary day
for the General Society and Stake officers.
Every year the day of the “outing” is look-
ed forward to with eager anticipation by
those from a distance particularly. Wanda-
mere now seems a very popular resort for
summer pic nics and excursions, it has many
attractions, and is kept free from "hood-
lums” which is very desirable. This year
the Primary chose Wandamere, for the enter-
tainment of the Association and guests; the
day was not very propitious but one cannot
always have fine weal her even in June. There
were a large number assembled and more
than an abundance of good things to eat;
the meeting of old friends at times like these
is a very great pleasure and the General
Board of the Primary is noted for the great
courtesy and liberality extended to all inter-
ested in this important work for the children
of Zion.
	This year Utah Daughters of the Pioneers
gathered at Wandamere the 15th of June for
their annual outing, and as Flag Day, June
14, came on Sunday it happened to combine
the two things. The President Mrs. Susa
Young Gates conducted the exercises, had

[Column 3]
Clives band engaged and progra[-] arranged.
There was considerable enthusiasm, some
very fine singing by talented young girls and
excellent music, and quite a number of vet-
erans were present, belonging to various
organizations. Some very good speeches
were made, the President herself being
most happy in her remarks and several of
the speakers particularly the ladies gave
entertaining reminiscences.
	The marriage of Zina Young Card and
Hugh B. Brown took place in the Salt Lake
Temple, Wednesday, June 17, 1908, the
bride is the granddaughter of President
B[-]igham Young and of Sister Zina D. H.
Young one of the most noted women of her
time in the Church, and the daughter of Pre-
sident O. S. and Zina Y. Card. After the
ceremony a wedding breakfast was given at
the home of the bride’s mother at which
were assembled the immediate family of
Sister Zina and a very few invited guests,
among the number the editor who con-
sidered it quite an honor, to be one of so hap-
py a wedding party. The most elaborate
congratulations were given and many gifts
of love for the young couple to take with
them to Canada, where they intend to make
their permanent home, and may it be a pa-
radise on earth and the Holy Spirit dwell
therein.
“Across the threshold led
And every tear kissed off as soon as shed,
His house she enters, there to be a light,
Shining within when all without is night;
A guardian angel o’er his life presiding,
Doubling his pleasures, and his cares dividing.”
	Wednesday from 3 to 6 p. m., June 17,
Mrs. C. F. Wilcox and her daughter Miss
Mona who had but just graduated from the
Utah University gave a reception in honor
of the happy event. It was a very pleasant
and enjoyable affair, although the rain pour-
ed down in torrents, the ladies came, many
in full evening dress; the decorations were
artistic and exquisite and the delicacies
served in the way of refreshments were dain-
tily delicious. As it was also the birthday
of Dr. Wilcox’s mother; she assisted in
receiving the entire afternoon; excellent
music rendered by a string band, added to
the pleasure of the guests who seemed to
enjoy every moment. It was indeed a charm-
ing affair and everything was delightful ex-
cept the weather, and that was out of doors.
	At the home of Mrs. John Groesbeck, Jr.,
Tuesday, June 23, a luncheon party was
given for her mother Margaret G. Clawson,
the guests were most of them Temple work-
ers about 25 or 30. The rooms were prettily
decorated with roses and other June flowers,
and the luncheon was par excellence, and
naturally very appetizing and seasoned with
wit and humor necessarily when Margaret
Clawson and Phebe Kimball get together;
this sort of conversation is good for diges-
tion. Half the pleasure of Sister M. G.
Clawson’s parties is the fine viands and the
other half is the enlivening conversation, it
does not depend much on her guests. She
has always been popular with the young
people, and now she is becoming very popu-
lar with the elderly sisters.
	Mrs. A. W. Carlson gave a garden party
on June 23, at her own residence, out doors
and in; some of Sister Clawson’s guests left
early to attend this Garden party, which was
made very attractive by the beautiful trees
and shrubbery, and especially by the cherry
trees, full of ripe red cherries, that added


[Column 1]
greatly to the beauty of the landscape. Mrs.
Carlson is a charming hostess and a prime
favorite with her friends, who are very num-
erous. We are sorry we have not space to
elaborate more fully on these two parties 
that occurred on the same day, but we can
remember them, and the ladies we met at
both places, and the good fellowship that
brings those who meet often closer to-
gether and year after year the ties grow
stronger.
	Thursday, July 9, was the anniversary of
the birthday of Mrs. Sophia Sharp and her
daughter Mrs. James E. Jennings gave a 
party in her honor to a large number of her
mother’s relatives and friends, in her hand-
some and commodious home. As it was
the midsummer many of the ladies were in
white, and all in light beautiful raiment
making an artistic picture in the midst of
the elegant furnishings of the rooms and the
exquisite floral decorations. The refresh-
ments were dainty and delicious and beauti-
fully served by little girls in white with rib-
bons, etc.,  the pretty grand daughters of
Mrs. Sophia Sharp and Mrs. Priscilla Jen-
nings. One may be sure there was no lack
of interesting conversation where so many
intelligent ladies were gathered and the par-
ty was therefore a brilliant success in every
respect. The Exponent extends congratula-
tions to the dear little lady, and wishes for
her many more returns of the day with health
and strength to enjoy life, and may her lines
be cast in pleasant places henceforth.
	Saturday, at 12 m., July 11, a luncheon
was given at the Utah University by the
Dean of Domestic Science Miss Lucy Van
Cott, and some special invitations were giv-
in a way informally, the General Officers and
Board of the Relief Society and of the Young
Ladies Associations were invited and the
affair was made very delightful and inter-
esting. New methods were explained, and
the general condition and status of this par-
ticular department were practically explain-
ed. Miss Van Cott seems to have made
good use of her advanced training in Eastern
Colleges, and is very competent to undertake
the superintending of a wider system of the
work, than is possible at present even in the
new University building that her students
occupy at present. She gave a fine talk on
the subject which is in reality a home topic,
Prof. Wm. Stewart spoke on the kindergarten
and kindred subjects a department which is
his pet theme, and Prof. Kingsbury occupied
a few minutes on the general situation of
the University and in praise of the pioneers,
and of their descendants taking a greater in-
terest in the institution founded by them so
many years ago in the new west. The writer
was requested to speak and incidentally al-
luded to the topic which Prof. Kingsbury
had so eloquently and ably referred to, and
also expressed the pride felt by all the early
settlers in the growth and excellence of this
University established in the Great west at
such an early period. Mrs. Martha H. Tin-
gey spoke by special request, expressing the
feeling entertained by the young women in
that organization, to help forward the good
work undertaken by Miss Van Cott which 
was certainly a laudable undertaking and
should be encouraged and patronized by the
community. The lady visitors were shown
through the buildings and explanations were
made to the party in regard to the buildings
and grounds.
	Tuesday, July 21, the Relief Society of the
four Stakes of Zion had their annual outing

[Column 2]
at Wandamere. The day was fair and a sort
of program was expected when the crowd
gathered at the dancing pavilion, Gen. John
Q. Cannon had been asked to act as Master
of ceremonies and though there was not
much of a program there was a very pretty
fairy dance by a dozen or more little girls in
fairy costume. Miss Ivy Evans who has a 
fine soprano voice sang a popular sang; and
Georgie Young played the violin very sweet-
ty, a very beautiful little girl gave a fancy
dance in the most delightful style, Clive’s
band was in attendance furnishing excellent
music.  After the announcement had been
made that the program was over, Brother T.
H. Morrison stepped forward and asked the
privilege of speaking a few words and mount-
ing the improvised platform, he announced
that he desired to present fifty dollars to the
President of the Relief Society, because of 
favors bestowed upon himself and family
when they came to Salt Lake City, strangers
in a strange land without home, and in time
of sickness and death, Sister Bathsheba W.
Smith, General President of the Relief Soci-
ety, came forward and received the donation
in gold, thanking him heartily for the gift.
Gratitude for favors in time of need is an
admirable quality in human character and
all of the sisters present felt to bless Brother
Morrison for his liberality.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
A BEAUTIFUL TESTIMONY.
To the Editor of the Exponent:
	DEAR SISTER E. B. WELLS:
	As I am owing for the Woman’s Ex-
ponent, I would like to pay the same and
also bear my testimony to the truth of the
work in which we are engaged; and also to
the good work and spiritual assistance of
the Woman’s Exponent of which I have
been a subscriber since its first publication,
I hope to continue taking the paper as long
as I live, or as long as I am able to read its
contents. If I were able to express my
feelings, dear sister Wells, of the spiritual
strength and enjoyment gained by reading
the Exponent, the heavenly and spirited
testimonies given by the true and faithful
sisters, whose lives have been a continual
warfare against wrong which has made them
strong in the Lord our God; and able to
teach or instruct the sisters on the true jour-
ney and pathway to gain salvation and hap-
piness, I feel like bearing my testimony
that the Exponent carries the light of the
Gospel along with its teachings into every
home where it is taken, and I hope it will
continue successfully in the future.
	I was born in an out of the way hamlet in
Jutland, Denmark, January 2, 1825, where
all might feel secure from the Mormons; but
the Lord’s ways are not our ways. He is
no respector of persons.
	Two Mormon Elders found us and bore
testimony that God had revealed himself to
Joseph Smith and given him the everlasting
Gospel to proclaim to all men. I tried to
argue with the missionaries, but was unable
to cope with them, as many of the passages
I had learned as scripture were not from the
Bible, but merely the notions of the Luther-
ian Church. I was religious in my own
way and asked God to give me wisdom to
do what was right. In a short time my sister
and I fully believed in the Gospel as taught,
and we thought sure no one could hear and
not believe the Gospel truths, but we soon
found out differently. We had a hard strug-
gle to be free from obeying our own con-

[Column 2]
science. We succeeded at last, and my sis-
ter and I were baptized in June, 1855. We
soon got the spirit of emigration to Zion.
We sought the Lord in humble prayer to
open the way for us with our scanty means,
and the next day the hand cart organization
was established which suited us. We were
young and had no family. We were able
to work whenever needed, and were full of
faith and hope. A little less than two
years after we were baptized we left all that
was near and dear to us in an earthly way
in Denmark, sailing from Copenhagen, April
18, 1857. We arrived in Salt Lake City,
September 13, five months later; but from
July till September we had been working
our way with handcarts for 1300 hundred
miles over sandy hills and big mountains
and rivers; but all was well, we were going
to Zion and we reached the place all right.
Praise be to the name of the Lord.
	I was taken from the camp in a buggy to
McKenny’s in the 10th ward where I worked
all winter weaving. Mrs. McKenny was
good to me and so was everybody else. I
was married February, 1858 to S. P. Eggert-
sen one of my own kinsmen, just before he
was called to go to Echo Canyon to help
watch our enemies. My sister and I were
then moved to Provo where our husbands
found us later. Provo 2nd ward was made
our home and there I have lived for over
fifty years together with my husband and
children. We have helped to build up
Provo both temporally and spiritually and
hope to continue.
	I have been a member of the Relief Soci-
ety from its first organization in Provo, in
1868, and have tried in my weakness to work
in my calling according to counsel, together
with my good band of energetic, united sis-
ters who aimed to make this society harmon-
ize with the Prophet Joseph’s instructions
to the sisters when first organized. I feel
like we succeeded pretty well. I have been
a widow nearly eight years but have child-
ren taking their father’s place taking care of
mother, and working for the upbuilding of
Zion. I feel I am greatly blessed in my old
age, I have friends wherever I go, I am
treated with kindness and respect for which
I am thankful to my heavenly Father. I
have partly lost my hearing, which is try-
ing and humiliating to me.
	I wish every success to the Woman’s Ex-
ponent, hoping it may have a place in every
home belonging to the Latter-day Saints, to
encourage and strengthen them in hope,
faith and charity.
			Yours very truly,
				JOHANNA EGGERTSEN.


DELEGATE FROM UTAH AT THE
WOMAN’S CONGRESS.
	At the Congress of the International
Woman Suffrage Alliance, held in Amster-
dam, Holland, from June 15th to 21st, Dr. 
Romania B. Penrose attended as delegate
from Utah by the appointment of Governor
John C. Cutler. The meetings were held in 
the Concertgebouw, one of the most capa-
cious buildings in the city, and representa-
tives were there from all the civilized coun-
tries of the world. Part of the program was 
to have been short speeches on the practical
effects of woman suffrage, by delegates from 
Utah, Wyoming, Idaho and Colorado, the
four states of the American Union in which
woman suffrage has been for some time
established. The governors of those states


[Column 1]
had appointed delegates in response to an
invitation from the Alliance, but the dis-
tance being so great, none were present with
the exception of Dr. R. B. Penrose, who
delivered the following address, which was
reseived wfth much applause:
	The elective franchise was given to the
women of Utah by act of the Legislature in
1870, while Utah was a territory of the
United States, so that when the State was
organized and admitted into the Federal
Union in 1895; woman suffrage could not
be considered in the light of an experi-
ment. In the State Constitution which was
approved by the President of the United
States, a provision was incorporated placing
women on a political equality with men.
Every citizen of the United States, of either
sex, who has resided in the State one year,
in the county four months, and in the pre-
cinct thirty days next preceding an election
and who is twenty-one years of age, is en-
titled to vote at said election. This was
adopted by a large majority of the dele-
gates in the Constitutional Convention,
after a long and heated debate in which all
the old objections to woman suffrage were
brought forward and vanquished.
	The good effects of woman suffrage in
Utah are numerous. Among them are
these: The primaries, conventions, and
polling places are conducted in proper or-
der without unseemly wrangles, vulgar lan-
guage, and profanity, and free from the
uncleanness of tobacco-using, due respect
being shown to the ladies, who are treated
as political equals with male citizens, and
with that gallantry, which becomes gentle-
men when in their society. Women are
chosen on the various committees and their
views are sought for and given due weight.
Women have been elected to the State
Legislature, and whether as Senators or
Representatives, have served with signal
ability; have taken part in debates on prom-
nent public questions; have introduced
measures which have passed into law, and
have exereised an influence which has been
recognized and appreciated.
	Women have also been elected to and re-
ceived appointments in various county
offices, and have served on State boards of
directors for colleges and asylums, and
on school boards. They are recognized fac-
tors in political parties, and whether as
Republicans or Democrats, their influence
is felt and courted, for they choose their
own party principles and candidates, often
on the other side from their husbands,broth-
ers and sons. This, however, has not led to
those disruptions in families which were
predicted to follow these conditions.
	The influence of political power in woman
is being felt in aid of the temperance wave
that is passing over the great West, for
the suppression of the drinking saloon, and
the banishment of those temptations which
have led so many souls into vice, intemper-
ance and debauchery, For with the ballot
woman is armed with a weapon of attack
and defense that in some respects is strong-
er than her tongue, and which gives practical
effect to her word. Her influence with the
ballot is also potent in the selection of hon-
orable, clean, and upright men for public
stations, and the turning down of the unfit
and those who seek public office for private
pelf. 
	The elective franchise has given to women
influence for the reformation of many pub-
lic institutions and regulations. For in-
stance the establishment of retention homes
for females, with women matrons and in-

[Column 2]
spectors of the accused. Also in reform
schools; in the promotion of juvenile courts;
in the cleansing and beautifying of cities
and towns; in the promotion of public mor-
als. It was a woman legislator who intro-
duced a bill, which became a law, against
the wearing of huge hats in places of amuse-
ment by which the general public has been
greatly benefitted. Woman has vigor-
ously supported enactments against expec-
toration on street cars and street pavements,
and similar regulations for the public health
and convenience.
	By the enfranchisement of women, the
agitation over the much vexed question of
political equality has been settled in Utah,
and the contention and strife which it has
evoked has passed away, and woman shares
with man the power that full freedom
brings. And this puts her in her proper
place by his side, instead of under his
thumb or his foot or other unjust domin-
ion. It has not robbed her one whit of her
womanliness or hindered the performance
of home duties. She is just as good a wife,
a mother, a sister, or an aunt as she could
be without the rights and privileges which
the ballot brings to her. She can teach
human rights and the principles of govern-
ment to her children, and imbue her sons
with the spirit of that liberty she herself en-
joys. She is no longer a political serf, but
a citizen in the full sense of the term, a part
of the nation, having a voice in the making
of the laws which she is required to obey, in
accord with the eternal principle that, “all
governments derive their just powers from
the consent of the governed.” Utah stands
third on the list of educational status among
the forty-six states of the American Union,
and her position is largely due to the influ-
ence of free, progressive and enfranchised
womanhood.
	There are offices in the gift of the people
for which women are especially adapted.
There are others which can be better filled by
men. The good sense of the voter, both
male and female, is, or should be, exercised
in their selection. This has been exempli-
fied in the workings of equal suffrage, and
the universal acceptance of this righteous
eqnality cannot fail to bring to the world
greater freedom, higher justice, closer union
and advancement in every thing that will
elevate humanity, and bring them to that
condition of harmony, fraternity and peace
foreseen by the prophets and heralded by
the poets and sages of ancient and modern
times.
			ROMANIA B. PENROSE.

	Delivered June 16, 1908, Conccrtgebouw,
Amsterdam, Holland.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY REUNION.
	Minutes of the Tooele Stake Relief So-
ciety Reunion held in Grantsville on June
25, 1908, at 2 p, m., President Alice R.
Woolley presiding. All the Stake officers
were present, Alice R. Woolley, Rose
Hammond, Maggie W. Anderson, Mary E.
Halladay, Lillian Gillespie, Lillian H. An-
derson. After the opening exercises, Presi-
dent Woolley welcomed the sisters, told us
every ward in the stake was represented, for
which she was very thankful. Felt that
Relief Society work was a great blessing to
the sisters, uniting them in love and unity.
Relief Society work is likened to the work
of our Savior. Asked the Spirit of the Lord
to be with us. She received a telephone


message from President Gowans saying that
on account of the sickness of his wife he
was unable to be with us; sent regrets for
other members of the Stake Presidency.
	Sister Louie Hale made a few remarks;
was so glad to meet with the sisters. Felt
thankful that the Relief Society was organ-
ized to make us better women and mothers.
Said Sister Mary A. Hunter, our former
Stake President sent her love and wished
she could have met with us today.
	Sister Agnes Judd played an organ solo.
	Sister Rose Hammond spoke of the happy
hours she had spent in Relief Society meet-
ings. Testified to the good spirit enjoyed
by the sisters, and hoped we would always
realize from whom our blessings came.
	Sister Lillian H. Anderson read a humor-
our piece entitled “How we Hunted a
Mouse.”
	Sister Shields, of Lake View Ward, sang
a solo.
	Sister Emily Anderson was thankful to
meet with the sisters, hoped we would have
a good time together. A good Relief Soci-
ety member is a good member of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. We 
renew our friendships in these reunions.
	Sister Lillian Gillespie read a paper on
the beauties of motherhood.
	Sister Maggie Anderson wished all to
understand  that when we hold a stake re-
union every one is invited to attend, spoke
of the blessings of Relief Society work, we
need spiritual food when we are raising our
families.
	Sister Lizzie Barrus sang a solo, “Count
Your Many Blessings.”
	Sister Steele read a paper entitled “An
Old Fashioned Standard of Life.”
	A paper prepared by Sister Jean Bennion
of Vernon was read by Sister Mary E. Hal-
laday, as the writer was unable to be pres-
ent.
	The reunion program closed by singing
“O, ye mountains high.” Benediction by
Sister Mary E. Halladay.
	The company then assembled on the lawn
beside the meeting house where refresh-
ments were served to all, which ended a
very enjoyable sociable time.
		MARY E. HALLADAY, Sec.


R. S. REPORTS.
			BEAR LAKE STAKE.
	Minutes of Relief Society conference and
officers meeting held in tabernacle at Paris,
July 12, 1908. President Nancy E. Pugmire
presiding.
	Sisters Elizabeth S. Wilcox and Minnie H.
James being our visitors of the General Re-
lief Society.
	Meeting opened by singing and prayer
and other usual exercises.
	President Nancy E. Pugmire gave a few
opening remarks.
	Alton, Cokeville, Laketown and Bern Re-
lief Society organizations reported.
	Different business was attended to con-
cerning real estate and other land and pro-
perty of the several Relief Society wards.
	Sister Nancy Allred was honorably re-
leased with a vote of thanks from the posi-
tion of Stake Secretary, having another re-
sponsible position to fill.
	Sister Nina Michaelson was voted in as
Stake Secretary.
	Sister Margaret Stucki was also released
as Stake Treasurer with a vote of thanks.
	Sister Sarah Allred of St Charles was
voted in as Treasurer.


[Column 1]
	President J. R. Shepherd thought it a very
wise thing of our president to choose her
secretary and treasurer from St. Charles, so
as to be near at hand when business is pres-
sing.
	A beautiful recitation was given by Sister
Nina Michaelson accompanied by her sister,
she also read a piece that had been compos-
ed for the Relief Society.
	One of the visiting sisters spoke of how
her memories were awakened by the beauti-
ful surroundings, and our lovely climate,
had heard so much from her mother, Sister
Horne, exhorted all to be faithful and take
care and train the children right and lend a
helping hand.
	Closed by singing and benediction.
	Afternoon session at 2 p. m. President
N. E. Pugmire presiding. Opened by choir
singing, “Jerusalem The Golden.” Sacra-
ment was then administered.
	Sister Mary Bagley then spoke for a short
time in a kind motherly way.
	Recitation by Gertrude Rich, “A Child.”
	Then President Laker addressed us.
	Sister James, one of the General Board,
spoke of the good the Relief Society had ac-
complished, we should extend the hand of
friendship, there is no greater blessing on
earth than Motherhood, told how scientists
look at the “Word of Wisdom,” and they
also think it very good to fast, exhorted us
all to faithfulness and doing good.
	A solo by Clara Williamson.
	Sister E. S. Wilcox spoke of how she en-
joyed the talent that had been exhibited and
also in behalf of the EXPONENT and spoke
very interestingly of how we can help each
other in doing everything that is noble and
good.
	President J. R. Shepherd had been very
much interested, spoke of the great help the
Relief Society is to the bishop, said “it is
much more blessed to give than to receive;”
that in the performance of our duties comes
the greatest blessing, to woman has especi-
ally been given love and devotion to her
children. What a wonderful religion we
have, it includes everything, grand and
noble, we have the greatest fraternal organ-
ization. May the Lord bless the sisters and
bless us all.
	President N. E. Pugmire thanked all who
had helped in any way to make the meet-
ings interesting.
	Closed with singing “Lift up your heads.”
Benediction, Elnora Austin.
				LOUISE TUELLER,
							Cor. Sec.
			RIGBY STAKE.
	The first quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of Rigby Stake convened at Rigby,
Idaho, June 19, 1908, commencing at 10 a.
m., President Ann T. Walker presiding. Af-
ter the opening exercises roll of stake and
ward officers was called, showing a full at-
tendance of stake officers and seven wards
out of eight. Counselor Ida Smoot Dusen-
berry and Elizabeth S. Wilcox of the Gen-
eral Board of the Relief Society were in at-
tendance. The following wards were re-
ported as being in a fairly good condition
by their presidents: Annis, Alice R. Luf-
kin; Grant, by Sarah A. C. Miller; Lewis-
ville, by Elizabeth Gilchrist; Menan, by Mary
Stephens; Rigby, by Harriet Chandler.
Duet sung by Brother and Sister Silcocks of
Grant ward.
	Sister Elizabeth Wilcox addressed the
congregation on envy, and the temptations
which surround our children. Parents
should guard their children very closely.

[Column 2]
Let us as mothers in Israel build a firm
character. We believe in eternal progres-
sion. Love one another. There are num-
berless kind acts performed daily by sisters
of the Relief Society of which no account is
kept, she bore testimony to the divinity of
the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
	Solo, “Sing Me to Sleep,” sung by Sister
Ethel Call.
	Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenbery made
references to some of the false things which
are spoken in the world against the Latter-
day Saint. Said our influence should be
of the best, for we can do more good by ex-
ample than precept. Related a testimony
received by a brother in the east, from meet-
ing with the “Mormon” Elders, who im-
planted in his heart by their acts as well as
teachings a love for the Gospel, and it was
impossible for him to quench the testimony
in his heart, although he had endeavored to
for six years. “We can preach a sermon
every day of our lives in our actions.”
	Conference convened at 2 p. m. with
President Ann T. Walker presiding. Stake
Counselors Julia A. Dabell and Lussania R.
Lawson bore testimony, and had found
great pleasure and satisfaction in comforting
and caring for the sick.
	Secretary Fanny Z. Perry reported the
Rudy Ward not doing anything at present.
President Ann T. Walker reported the stake,
said, “We have over 3,000 bushels of wheat
and $110 cash on hand. The stake presi-
dency have visited every ward in the stake
and found them doing a good work with the
exception of one. The following stake Re-
lief Society missionaries bore testimony to
the grandeur of Relief work: Sally A. Cor-
don, Annie C. Selck, Sarah Scott, and Treas-
urer Mary Ellen Call.
	Sister Elizabeth Wilcox encouraged the
sisters to support the WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
Said it had been suggested by the General
Board that some of the papers written on
Motherhood be sent to the editor of the EX-
PONENT for publication.
	Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry spoke of
the beauties of nature, said we are fitted for
the burdens we have to bear, our trials make
us love more and have charity one for an-
other, spoke of the joy and satisfaction
which is brought to one’s soul for waiting
on the sick. “Give a kind word to mothers
for they do need and deserve encouragement.
Make confidents of your children, gain their
love and respect. It is very necessary to
keep good company or you will be contami-
nated by association with evil, bind your
children to you with love.”
	A paper on Motherhood was read by Stake
Relief Society Missionary, Hannah Morgan.
	Mary Anglesey, president of Labell Ward,
reported.
	President William W. Selck, Jr., Josiah
Call and Don C. Walker all endorsed the
remarks of the sisters and exhorted all to
take heed to the counsel given and be ener-
getic workers in the Kingdom of God.
	President Ann T. Walker thanked the
visiting sisters for their visit and comforting
advice and counsel; also appreciated and
expressed thanks to the members of the

[Column 3]
Rigby Ward for their kindness and hospi-
tality shown the sisters.
	Conference adjourned for three months,
after singing and prayer.
	MARY J. M. ROBINSON, Stake Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.
	By an accident from runaway stage horses, it
becomes our painful duty to record the sad death
of our beloved sister, Mary Ann Broadbent, aged
78, which occurred on the 6th of April, 1908.
	She was a woman full of faith and good works,
always ready to help the poor, the sick, and for
many years Auntie Broadbent (as she was affec-
tionately called) was always the one most forward
in making the clothing for the dead. She was
for several years president of the Primary Associ-
ation, and an ardent worker in the Sabbath
School.
	A faithful laborer in the Relief Society, her
voice was always in defense of the Gospel restored
to earth through the Prophet Joseph Smith in
this dispensation of the fulness of times, leaving
her native land and all that was dear for its sake.
	We the officers and members of the Kanab Re-
lief Society express our sorrow and sincere sym-
pathy with her bereaved husband (now in his 91st
year,) and her companion, and family. Soon they
will be reunited and sorrow and sighing will be
no more. They have all kept the faith and will
rise to a glorious resurrection with the righteous
in the Father’s Kingdom:
	Sarah J. Crosby President; E. A. Chamberlain,
L. A. Farnsworth, Counselors: A. B. McAllister,
Secretary; Rebecca E. Mace, Treasrer.


I. W. S. A.
	The meeting of the International Woman
Suffrage Alliance opened at Amsterdam on
June 15, with a large attendance. Some of
the dispatches call it the largest Interna-
tional Congress of women ever held. Dele-
gates were present from America, Bulgaria,
Bohemia, Canada, Denmark, Germany, Eng-
land, Finland, Hungary, Italy, Holland, New
Zealand, Norway, Russia, Austria, Ireland,
Sweden; Switzerland and elsewhere. In all,
23 countries were represented. There was
one male delegate, the representative of the
Men’s League for Women’s Suffrage in Eng-
land. He was cordially received, as he de-
served to be. A cantata of welcome was
sung by 300 women 80 little girls and 60
boys. An address of welcome followed by
Dr. Aletta Jacobs, president of the Nether-
lands Woman Suffrage Association. Mrs.
Carrie Chapman Catt, the Iuternational Pre-
sident, then gave an eloquent opening ad-
dress, in which she asserted that suffrage for
women was sure to come within a few years.
She declared that the suffragists’ enemy was
not man, but conservatism.
					Woman’s Journal.


CLASS IN OBSTETRICS.
	Dr. Margaret C Robert’s Class in
obstetrics will commence on Monday,
October 12th, 1908. For further in-
formation communicate with Dr M.
C. Roberts 404 Temple on Bldg., Salt
Lake City, Phone 2002. 

R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY
LADIES’ READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
TRY US


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
Vol. 37.					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER, 1908.						No. 3.


CONTENTS.
									PAGE
L. D. S. Women of the Past. Personal Im- 
	pressions..................Emmeline B. Wells	17
Letter from New South Wales...................Jett	19
A Unique Gathering .........................E. W. B.	19
Testimonial.....................................................	21
Relief Society Conjoint Meeting and Banquet
	.........................................Nellie Becraft	21
In Memoriam of Mary Anderson....................	22
Keep the Sabbath Day Holy............................
	...............................Caroline C. R. Wells	24
Notes and News..............................................	24
Relief Society Stake Reports: Granite—Nebo	19
	Panguitch................................................	22
	Alpine.....................................................	23
Editorial:—The Political Situation in Utah....	20
	Be Valiant for Rights..............................	20
Poetry:—The Spencer Tree............................
	..................................Josephine Spencer	17


[COLUMN 1]
	THE SPENCER TREE.
Hand hath not traced to what far time
	The tree’s first acorn grew
Before that day when Saxon soil
	Our own forefathers drew
From foreign shores to mix their blood
	With that historic strain
Which, warmed by Persecution’s breath
	Flowed in the Pilgrim’s vein—
The blood that fired the Puritan
	For his sole Conscience sake
The sacrifice of land and home
	With ready zeal to make.
Numbered among the exile band
	That fled from native shore
Their altars on New England’s soil
	Triumphant rose once more,—
And braving famine, peril, death—
	They helped to build in time
A sturdy commonwealth which grew
	To measure every clime.
Their names were with the patriot band
	When Revolution flung
Its banners high for Liberty;—
	They heard its victory sung!
And all they suffered, all they won
	Strengthened the strain of those
Forefathers of our nearer time
	Whose blood within us flows.
Time passed, and Peace enjoined its sway;
	Till down the path of years
A greater call to Conscience came
	With trail of strife and tears;
A sign of faith, from earth and heaven—
	Met by the world’s cold scorn
Which grew to Persecution’s war
	Till deeds of blood were sown.
But still, to Faith’s old leadings true,
	The strain of bygone sires
Leapt in the veins of sturdy sons
	And lit Religion’s fires—
—To be a pillared cloud by night
	To light them on their way,
Oft, too, a mournful funeral pyre
	Which charred their hopes each day.
Old altars of self Sacrifice
	On their new way were reared—
Home, kindred, wealth were all the price
	For faith and truth revered.
Three sons—we know and love them well
	Who gather here tonight,
Three whom in memory we revere
	With token of this sight—
Heard, and responded to that call
	Which kindled Conscience blaze—
And built for us this gardened spot
	To pass our peaceful days.
Some first few branches yet remain
	Of this ancestral tree,
The sap still fresh within their veins,
	Their minds still clear and free.

[Column 2]
Each annual gathering sees each face
	And feels each active hand
A staunch supporter of the cause
	That links the family band.
There’s Theron, Claudius and George
	There’s Howard, Mary Leone,
Aurelia, too, and Katherine,
	All children who have known
Those early days of pilgrim stress
	Our valiant fathers knew
Welding for them the stronger tie
	Which this close pathway drew.
The younger branches and their sprouts—
	How can we name them all?
The list a lengthy volume’s task—
	An army’s muster call:
But midst these leaves full many a name
	May rise to worthy hight,
In lists of proud Achievement’s fame
	Or tournaments of Right’
Some there have been, who but for choice
	And love of humbler lot,
Might have drawn Fame’s triumphant prize
	With honors nobly wrought.
Edith,* we know, had she essayed
	To tread a mimic stage
Would mateh Maud Adams side by side
	On proud theatric page.
Another of that lineal branch
	Gives promise yet, to gain
Proud laurels in his new career
	In Music’s high domain.
But gifted, humble, rich or poor
	We own humility
Before the three, thrice-honored names
	Which make our family tree.
And older, younger—joined to them
	By blood or marriage link,
All render here a wish that time
	May lead us yet to drink
Some measure of the laurelled cup
	Which pledges the three names
That stand for sacrifice to Truth
	And all that Conscience claims
And if we may not win ourselves
	This prize that crowned their day,
May their high effort bring to us
	A privilege to stay
At least within some kindred place
	When Time’s last race is run—
Where we may greet them face to face—
	And hear them say “Well done!”
				JOSEPHINE SPENCER.

* Edith Clawson Knowlton.
✝︎ Spencer Clawson, Jun.


[Column 1]
L. D. S. WOMEN OF THE PAST.
PERSONAL IMPRESSIONS.
BY EMMELINE B. WELLS
	In perusing the pages of history, and in re-
counting events that have transpired in this
Church, one finds so much material to make
use of, that is hard to choose from and even
among the women, who in the earlier days
had not the opportunities for public life, that
those have had who were of a younger gen-
eration; yet one finds them great in the sphere
in which they moved, and among their as-
sociates and nobly great considering environ-
ment. One writer has said “great in small
things,” yet in looking into their history we
find that the great drama of life as enacted
in that early period has been full of stirring
events and sacrifices.
	In my mind’s eye I have a vivid picture of

[Column 2]
two young women, whom I met at a friend’s
house, soon after my arrival in Nauvoo; and
both of them (they were sisters) were parti-
cularly striking in appearance. They were
modest in manner, yet dignified, tall and
blooming with health, quite a contrast to
many (pale faces for it was an ague climate), I
might say to the majority of women, because
of their rosy lips and cheeks. The impres-
sion they made was of vigor, strength of
character, and reposefulness. They were
spoken of as the “Partridge girls,” and their
names Eliza and Emily, were linked together
with a sort of tone that indicated the closest
relationship. Afterwards coming in friendly
contact, I found them unlike in many re-
spects, though they harmonized well, and
were very fondly attached to each other.
These two young girls had as children passed
through many trying scenes of sacrifice and
danger, thrilling experiences, such as young
women now cannot appreciate nor perhaps
can any one, except when placed in like cir-
cumstances. Their parents had been well-
to-do people, who had in the early times of 
Western migration left comfortable homes
in New England, to go to the Western Re-
serve in Ohio, which was considered a land
of better facilities for making homes, than
the stony hills of their native state Massa-
chusetts.
	This young couple became acquainted
and married in Ohio. It was destiny no
doubt; they settled in Painesville, Geauga Co.,
Ohio, where they purchased land and built up
a home and had great hopes of educating their
children. This home was later on, a very
popular one among the little handful of early
believers in the Everlasting Gospel; and Ed-
ward Partridge the father of the two young
maidens mentioned, that I had met on that
auspicious day now far remote; was ordained
the first Bishop of the Church, and the family
were among the first converts in what seemed-
then “that far distant land.”
	Without going into family history though
well-authenticated as to descent; the writer
only desires to give her impressions of these
young women, as she knew them. There is
no doubt that the trying ordeals through
which one passes in childhood’s days have
a lasting effect upon the mind and character
as the years roll on.
	The persecutions in Kirtland, the more
terrible outrages, mobbings, drivings and
imprisonments in Missouri of fathers, break-
ing up of family ties, rendering children
homeless, necessarily, leaves its impress
upon the plastic minds of children, and as a
natural sequence upon the generations fol-
lowing.
	Soon after arriving in Nauvoo in conse-
quence of privations, imprisonment, and at-
tendant consequences, Bishop Partridge pas-
sed away, leaving his family destitute of a
home in that new region, and it fell to the lot
of the two older girls to be taken into the
family of the Prophet Joseph Smith, where
they lived for some time, members of that
hospitable household.
	It is a remarkable fact that whoever came
within the influence of the Prophet Joseph
partook more or lees of his spirit and became
imbued, as it were so strongly with his won-


[Column 2]
derful atmosphere that it entered into their
life, thus becoming part of their very exis-
tence. The association was of such a lofty
and sacred nature, that in yielding to his
teachings and ministrations, the tendency
towards his ideals became engrafted upon
their hearts. This has been noticable in
some instances, and the writer has in mind
two very powerful proofs of this impression-
ism.
	Be that as it may, there is no doubt that
both Eliza and Emily Partridge partook in
a large degree of the spirit and teaching of
the Prophet Joseph Smith.
	They were earnest and devoted followers
of the principles taught and promulgated by
this great and holy man of God. They were
ready and willing to sacrifice all on the altar
of their faith. Firm as the rock of ages in
the principles of truth revealed through him
in this dispensation.
	The memory of all such holy women the
Latter-day Saints should cherish and honor.
	After the death of the Prophet the Saints
were expelled from their homes, and the be-
loved city and Temple of “Nauvoo the
Beautiful” was left behind, while the exiled
people wandered in the wilderness, until
they reached the promised land, the valley
of the Great Salt Lake.
	But I am digressing and touching on re-
miniscences instead of giving you pen pict-
ures of the women whose names have been
mentioned.
	Sister Eliza Maria Partridge Lyman was
a woman of uncommon natural ability and
spirituality; she had much force of character
and great fortitude and powers of endurance,
was able to cope with difficulties and to bear
the burdens of others. The heroic type, dis-
playing in her life the attributes of her Puri-
tanical ancestry largely developed. She was
a tower of strength to look upon, and in her
life displayed those virtues and characteris-
tics that shine forth and illumine the humb-
lest home, as well as adorn the palaces of
the great and the noble of the earth.
	This grand women did not shrink from
colonizing and doing frontier work wherever
she was called to go in connection with her
husband, and his family; and such a wife
and mother would in the natural course of
family life have sons, that would make their
way in the world of mankind as distinguished
from the common place masses of men, and
daughters as noble and pure as herself. Such
women as Eliza Partridge Lyman are likely
to have sons that will attain to meritorious
distinction. She was undoubtedly a woman
of destiny, she had the courage of a martyr,
and of one, who was not only ready to die
for an unpopular principle of her faith, but
to live for it, and to bear the ignominy and
slander of those who persecute and condemn
those of other faith, and know not why.
The names of these illustrious heroines who
heard the Prophet’s voice, and listened to
his teachings, making divine principle the
rule of their lives should be held in honor-
able remembrance by all Israel, and especi-
ally should the Daughters of Zion emulate
their virtues and follow their example.
Among those saintly women of the early
days in the Church whose lives have stood
for righteousness, and who have never
wavered, no matter how trying the ordeal,
we count as one of the very foremost the
name of E[-]iza Lyman.
	Eliza Maria Partridge Lyman, born April
20, 1820, in Painesville, Geauga Co., Ohio.
Died at Oak City, Millard Co., Utah, March
2, 1886.

[Column 2]
	Emily Dow Partridge Young, was also
one of the renowned women of the days of
the Prophet Joseph Smith. The children
of Brother and Sister Partridge imbibed in
childhood’s days, those pure principles of
the Gospel that grew up with them and
that have descended upon their posterity.
	One could not help feeling when in the
company of Sister Emily Young, that she was
a woman in whom one could repose implicit
confidence with entire safety. She was a
very handsome woman, one who made a
fine appearance even in homespun, both of
make and material. Industry with her
was a virtue, she was an early riser, and
active in all household pursuits, possessing
in a marked degree the Yankee character-
istic of thrift, and econonomical withal
making things go farther or last longer
than many of her associates. In the days
when everything was manufactured by hand
in the home, she was equal to the situation,
her carding, spinning, dyeing, and hand-
sewing, plain or fancy stitching, knitting,
darning, soap and candle making were all
of the very best, never, or rarely ever a
failure in any of of the various depart-
ments of the work of the primitive home;
neatness and order in its perfection in the
apartments of “Aunt Emily” Young,
whether in the log row, the Lion House,
or when occupying her own house later in
life. Like her illustrious sister she remem-
bered the terrible scenes enacted in Mis-
souri, and could relate them in private
conversation in a most graphic style, but
could never be induced to speak in public,
yet her friends and admirers were confident
she could have made a most interesting
public speaker. She certainly had much
to tell of her vivid experiences of the cir-
cumstances that transpired in her childhood
and youthful days, and of which she had
been an eye witness.
	Sister Young was finally persuaded to
write an Autobiograpdy which was pub-
lished in the Woman’s Exponent in 1885,
running through several numbers. Much
of this interesting sketch is devoted to the
changes and vicissitudes and jonrneyings
of the Church, and the persecutions of the
Saints, particularly of the Prophet Joseph
Smith and her own father, Bishop Ed-
ward Partridge and correspondence between
these two great men at that period of time.
	But it is not my object to rehearse these
things, but to present a sort of pen picture
of the woman herself as she impressed the
writer, that our young women may have a
glimpse of her beautiful life of self-sacrifice
and devotion to duty, and her delightful
personality. Sister Emily Young was a
woman of mighty faith, and of unbounded
charity towards those who were unfortunate,
afflicted or erring; one of her estimable
virtues was that she never spoke ill of any
one, and invariably reproved the young peo-
ple around her whenever she heard slanders
repeated. Her motto was,

“Nay, speak no ill, a kindly word
	Will never leave a sting behind,
But O, to breathe each tale we’ve heard,
	Is far beneath a noble mind.”

	As to a grand and noble woman, possess-
ing all those delightful traits of mind and
character, as well as devotion and activities
that adorn motherhood and home life, and
that make for the best in social surround-
ings, of all these qualities, she was the very
embodiment and exemplification in full
measure.
	One ought not to deplore the innate mod-

[Column 3]
esty and reticence of a woman who could
not and would not come before the public;
that is not to be considered for a moment
in estimating the worth of womanhood.
Sister Emily Young was in every way lov-
able, genial, a true wife and mother, a
woman who was obedient to every com-
mandment, who walked uprightly, and
worked righteousness, who was more willing
to listen than to attempt to teach. In the
opinion of the writer she was the old-
fashioned type of the Puritan woman, per-
haps something of the Quaker type, quite as
modest and as delicate in sentiment, as
Longfellow’s Elizabeth in “Tales of a Way-
side Inn.”
	Sister Emily Young certainly possessed
intellectual gifts that lay dormant; on rare
occasions with her intimate friends one be-
came aware of her latent talents in this
direction, but she was so timid and over-
sensitive, that even women who could influ-
ence seemingly the most diffident ones
among the sisters (Sister Eliza R. Snow)
totally failed to bring out a response in any
public manner from Emily P. Young.
Though she greatly admired these gifts in
others, and was anxious to have incidents
of the early days related for the benefit of
our young people, yet she had no confidence
to speak for herself.
	Undoubtedly had Sister Emily Young
been encouraged earlier in life to cultivate
her gift for writing, she might have given to
the world reminiscences of the most thrill-
ing episodes that have ever transpired
among the Saints, as a personal eye-witness.
As it is we have a beautiful life to contem-
late: among her many virtues we can num-
ber patience, resignation in times of great
sorrows and trying ordeals; fortitude, the
courage of religious convictions without any
reservation, purity of life beyond all ques-
tion. Sister Emily Young taught her chil-
dren faith by precept and example in the
ways of the Lord, and she was one of the
most distinguished heroines of the Church,
she was valiant for the truth and unflinch-
ing in her integrity to the Gospel, and as
firm in her convictions of the divinity of
the mission of Joseph Smith, the Prophet
as are the everlasting hills; for the faith and
the principles thereof she made great and
noble sacrifices.
	These notable women who have passed
away deserve the widest recognition from
those who are living today, and to have
their histories written by the most talented
among our people, for they have helped to
lay the foundation of a superstructure that
is to stand throughout all time, and have
helped to establish eternal principles that
reach far beyond this mortal life, into the
Celestial kingdom.
	For these two great women whose names
and pen pictures are linked together here,
what better can be said than this, that their
“children rise up and call them blessed,”
and all Israel say Amen.
	Emily Dow Partridge Young, born in
Painesville, Geauga County, Ohio, February
28, 1824. Died in Salt Lake City, Decem-
ber 9, 1899.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


The Independence League of Illinois has
put a woman’s suffrage plank in its platform.
	Mrs. Alice B. Clark, now serving her
second term as superintendent of schools
for Garfield County, Col., has been endorsed
by the normal institute for state superin-
tendent of public instruction on a non-
partisan basis.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]	
LETTER FROM NEW SOUTH WALES.
				Friday, August 28th 1908.
Dear Claire:—
	Have only time to commence this letter,
as I expect papa and Mrs. Nichols over by
next boat, but there is so much to be crowded
in between this and next Monday (when the
“Marama” sails,) that I must make use of
every minute. The fleet has been here, and
gone, and I am sure it will take a full week
for people to settle down to normal condition
again. As Vio Little used to say, I am still “so
full of excitements,” that my head is thumping
with neuralgia, and I feel like a wilted flow-
er, with no strength or ambition left. But
how glad I am that I was blessed with the
privilege of witnessing this grand spectacle,
and how proud of my country that she could
do this most wonderful thing. No words of
mine can convey to you how beautiful it all
was. The people of Sidney spared neither
trouble nor expense to make the city and
harbor a perfect picture. It was a revelation
to me in decoration. Not just a few great
gilded eagles, shields done in our national
colors, and a few yards of bunting, but hun-
dreds of them, and flags by the thousands.
Several of the principal streets were literal
bowers of flags and strips of bunting. Besides
this thousands of yards of ropes of evergreen
festooned on both sides of streets. Think of
the labor and cost of such decorations, but
the beauty of it is beyond my poor powers
of description. The Parks, Botanical Gar-
dens, principal buildings and streets were a
blaze of electric lights, in our colors. Great
statues of liberty were erected in several
places, and Queen Victoria’s statue, which
stands in McQuarrie street, was encircled
with poles from which were festooned strings
of electric lights (in red, white and blue)
and the space inside this circle was a mass
of palms, ferns, and other beautiful plants.
The word “Welcome” appeared here, there
and every where, in electric lights. Balls,
garden parties, dinners, lunches, concerts,
theatres, all sorts of games and sports weregiven every day and evening, besides trips
by train and boat to the wonderful caves and
water falls, Medlow baths, etc., were given.
All street cars, ferries, launches, etc. gave
free transportation to officers and sailors
alike. People with automobiles would stop
whenever they saw a bunch of sailors walk-
ing, ask them to get in, and off they would
go. Everything was as free as the air, to one
and all. It was just wonderful and splendid,
from first to last, and made one glad to be
alive.
	We took rooms and board for the entire
week, at a place called “Highroid” and from
our balcony could see sixteen of the ships,
also look across the bay to Sydney and see
the fireworks and illumination. (The fire-
works cost over $5,000.00.) Every night from
7 to 10 o’clock the battle ships were a blaze
of electric lights, and on Saturday night they
illuminated with search lights throwing great
arms of light all over the harbor, and far out
to sea.
	Should I write all day I could not make
you understand, nor could you conceive of
the grandeur and beauty of the scene. One
morning we had a shower, then the sun
shone out suddenly, and there appeared a
rainbow, which (I believe) can only be pro-
duced in a tropical land. It cast its radiance
over eight or ten of those great white ships,
but on two of them one end seemed to rest.
I assure you I never saw a more magnificent
picture in all my life. I was spell-bound,
and neither wished to speak nor hear a sound,

[Column 2]
I only wanted to gaze until the beautiful
picture faded from my view, and this I did.
How I enjoyed hearing the ship’s bands play-
ing “The Star Spangled Banner”—“Hail
Columbia” and other soul stirring airs. Only
those can understand, who like me, have heard
them in a far off land. I just trembled with
loyal enthusiasm, and loved my country
better than ever. Papa is sending you a
copy of “The Town and Country Journal,”
which is filled with illustrations, some of
which are very good. We only came back
home yesterday, and found plenty to do—
but every thing is once more in order, and
it seems good to be here, and to be quiet
again.
	Sunday Evening. I have been obliged to
use pencil and carbon paper—because my
time was so taken that I could not write to you,
and my children all about the fleet, unless
I made several copies at one time, so please
forgive me. I have just re-read your letter,
and there are many items I would like to
mention, but I am very tired, so we’ll let
this go as it is. Ada Dwyer has spent today
with us and we have talked over the days of
our childhood—and of mutual friends at
home till my head is aching—and I’m sure
she is tired. Dell and Dorothy took her back
to her hotel in Sydney. She is playing “Mrs.
Wiggs” to crowded houses—and every body
loves her, both off and on the stage.
	Dearest love to all at 417. With a kiss
and a prayer for your welfare—we’ll say good
night.						JETT.


A UNIQUE GATHERING.
	Mrs. Andrew J. Stewart, Jr., entertained
in honor of her mother, Mrs. Jane Riggs,’
80th birthday fifteen of Provo’s leading
society ladies of forty years ago. They all
crossed the plains with ox teams, have been
acquainted and all lived here 40 years. All
are widows except two; their combined ages
1129 years. The ladies present were: Mrs.
Jane Riggs, aged 89; Mrs. Eggertsen, aged
83; Mrs. Emmeline Miller. aged 81; Mrs.
Marinda Glazier, aged 78; Mrs. Marilla Dan-
iels, aged 78; Mrs, Lucinda Southworth,
aged 77; Mrs. Electa Bullock, aged 74, Mrs.
Flora Maiben, aged 78; Mrs. Sarah L. Turn-
er, aged 73; Mrs. Anna Peay, aged 71; Mrs.
Martha Bullock, aged 70; Mrs. Emma Bul-
lock, aged 68; Mrs. Anna Nelson, aged 68
Mrs. Martha A. Harris. aged 67. A delicious
luncheon was served. Mrs. Electa Bullock
read several birthday poems in her usual
beautiful way. and Mrs. Hannah Clark sang
“The Two Martyrs,” which was greatly
appreciated.					E. W. B.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.
		GRANITE STAKE.
	Granite Stake Relief Society conference
convened at the Stake Tabernacle, Septem-
ber 15, 1908, at 10 a. m., President Emma
S. Woodruff presiding.
	Sisters Rebecca Nibley and Minnie H.
James of the General Board were present.
Reports from a number of local presidents
showed an inerease of enthusiasm in all
branches of R. S. work.
	Sisters Nibley and James then addressed
the conference on various subjects and ad-
monished the sisters to continue faithful
to the Relief Society and the great work of
the Lord.
	The afternoon session was devoted to the
life of “Daniel H. Wells” and the program
was rendered by members of his family.

[Column 2]
	Biographical sketch of his life was read
by Elder Joseph S. Wells.
	Poems relating to incidents in his life were
read by Victor P. Wells, Annette Wells
Culmer, and Annie Wells Cannon. Piano
solo by Sister Grace Grant. Reminiscences
were given by Sisters Lydia A., Hannah C.
and Emmeline B. Wells, of the great and
noble life of him who was ever true to his
country, his conscience, his brethren, his
religion and his God.
	The musical exercises were especially
good and the Stake Relief Society choir did
some good work.
	A banquet was held between meetings,
and a good time was enjoyed by all who
were present.
			LUCY M. GEREN,
				Assistant Secretary.
			NEBO STAKE.
	Minutes of Relief Society Conference of
Nebo Stake held at Santaquin, Utah, March
20, 1908. Conference convened at 10 a. m.,
Eliza J. Dixon presiding.
	After opening exercises, Sister Teitjen,
president of Santaquin ward made a few
opening remarks and reported her ward. Sis-
ter Cappel, one of the stake board gave
some good instruction and encouragement
to the Relief Society sisters.
	Sister Forcey, president of Mammoth
ward, reported all in good condition. Sis-
ter Price reported Goshen ward. Sister
Brown reported Eureka ward. Sister Moore,
president of Spring Lake, reported that ward.
	The choir sang “Peace, be still.”
	Sister Brown of the stake board spoke of
the training of our children to have pure
thoughts and pure acts, “We should al-
ways tell our children the truth, and never
tell them anything we don’t mean. All the
women in the Church, should belong to the
Relief Society or the Y. L. M. I. A., and
should teach their children to pray when
they are very young. Spoke of the feeling
among our people; said the mission of
motherhood on earth, is to multiply and
replenish the earth; also spoke on the
power of prayer and related some instances
in the Book of Mormon on that subject,
Sister Evans of the stake board gave an ex-
ercise from the little book entitled “A
Swarm of Bees,” and some very beautiful
thoughts were brought out.
	Afternoon session, President Eliza J. Dix-
on presiding.
	After singing and prayer, Sister Town-
send read a notice from the general board
concerning the nurses’ class under the
auspices of the Relief Society. Song by
Leona Boyle, entitled, “My heart’s tonight
in Tennessee.” Sister Mary P. Harding
gave an exercise on parents’ class work,
subject “Physical punishment of children.”
	Sister Cappel spoke on the spiritual du-
ities of parents to their children, also on the
word of wisdom, and the necessity of our
keeping it as a people and the blessings that
are promised by so doing.
	Quartette by members of choir entitled
“Drifting with the tide.”
	Sister Hawkins spoke on the labor of the
Relief Society and the necessity of our
young people being trained in the Gospel.
Bishop Holiday made some very timely re-
marks. Sister Dixon spoke on our duties
in the Church. Brother Roberts testified of
the Spirit of the Lord being with us on this
occasion, also of the necessity of nurses.
	Closed by singing, and benediction by
President Lemon.
		ELIZA A. HAWKINS, Cor Sec.


20	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

				Woman’s Exponent

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, 1$.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah,
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.		-	-	OCTOBER, 1908.


[Column 1]	
THE POLITICAL SITUATION IN UTAH.
	There have been few political campaigns
in Utah which presented more vital issues
or were of deeper general significance than
the one in which we are now engaged. In
common with their fellow-citizens through-
out the nation, the people of this State are
keenly interested in the great national con-
test, and partake of the enthusiasm which
attends its successive phases and develop-
ments. Those whose affiliations and sympa-
thies are with the Republican party find
much to please them in the vigorous utter-
ances and the energetic campaigning of Mr.
Taft, supported by the strenuous backing of
President Roosevelt and the mighty assist-
ance of experienced party leaders. Those
who incline to the Democratic party, either
by reason of fondness for its principles or
admiration for its standard-bearer, are filled
with joy at the popular favor with which Mr.
Bryan is everywhere received and the ap-
plause which his letters and orations evoke.
Utah Republicans and Utah Democrats are
accordingly quite as hopeful, as eager, and
as interested as are their fellow-citizens in
Maine, Texas, Florida or Oregon in the great
game which is now being played before the
eyes of an eager constituency, and on the
merits of which the people will pass judg-
ment on the 3rd of next November.
	But here at home we have additional rea-
sons for approaching the ballot box next
November with sober and thoughful earnest-
ness. There are questions at issue which
should lie close to the heart of every good
citizen. At least one of these appeals espe-
cially to women—we refer to the splendidly-
growing sentiment in favor of temperance,
and the likelihood that with the election of
good legislators, the liquor traffic may be
restrained. It is the boast and the belief of
the friends of equal suffrage that the influ-
ence of women in politics and at the polls
is healthful and purifying. Here is an op-
portunity to make proof of the one and give
strength to the other. Men may, and per-
haps from sincere conviction sometimes do,
disagree as to the merits or desirability of
prohibition. Women do not. There is no
question about it in their minds. If their
votes could decide the issue, it would speedi-
ly be settled. Is it not proper to expect,
therefore, and to urge, that they shall avail
themselves at this time of every right of
citizenship which they enjoy? It seems to
us that any woman who through neglect or
indifference at this important moment fails
to register and to vote, shows but a feeble

[Column 2]
conception of her duty and a pitiful dis-
regard of the righteous power reposing in
her hands.
	Another issue of purely local importance,
but surely of enormous and terrible signific-
ance here where it is best understood, is the
announced threat that in the event of the
success of a certain faction in Salt Lake
County, a large number of the foremost cit-
izens of the community will be driven either
into exile or into the penitentiary. At the
recent convention of the so-called “Ameri-
can” party this infamous declaration was
officially made, and it was cheered to the
echo. Certain “Twenty-six” were referred
to as coming under this threat and consigned
to this fate—these “twenty-six” being the
general authorities of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, both Democrats
and Republicans, some of them men who
by their most bitter and vindictive ene-
mies have never even been accused of hav-
ing broken any law. It is true, the
astounding brutality of such a program re-
vealed itself on second thought to those who
had so madly applauded it; and the shrewder
of them promptly affected to lament, if not
the plan, at least the revelation of it. As a
political weapon it promises to recoil with
much severity upon its original wielders. But
that a program so vile should even have been
thought of, much less mentioned, evidences
a depravity that otherwise would have been
hard to fasten upon any faction seeking sup-
port from popular suffrage. If it means any-
thing at all, it means that if that faction shall
be successful the angry elements of discord
are again to be called up, the reeking hounds
of persecution again to be let slip, in this
prosperous and peaceful land. Is such a
prospect pleasing to those, whether Mormon,
Jew or Gentile, who live and expect to live
here? Their answer ought to be found, writ-
ten plain and decisive, in the ballot-box next
November. Those who fail to help in mak-
ing that answer clear and unmistakable, those
who neglect their part in administering re-
buke to a crew who would gorge and fatten
upon a community’s woes, may not be shar-
ers in the foul plot, but they show sure symp-
toms of the fatal complacency which fiddles
and sings while riot reigns and the world
burns. 
	For the foregoing and for other reasons which
might be cited, the forthcoming election is
full of moment to the people of this State
and this intermountain country; and the
Exponent feels fully justified in urging upon
all its readers the solemn duty of voting, and
of exercising that right with the true intel-
ligence and the conscientious prudence which
the gravity of the situation demands.


[Column 1]
	BE VALIANT FOR RIGHTS.
	These are strenuous times; and just be-
fore election always is to those interested in
the great questions of the country’s welfare
and of its good government. Perhaps there
is no people more desirous of righteous, con-
sistent and wholesome laws and fair-deal-
ing than the Latter-day Saints. This land,
America, has been dedicated by the Consti-
tution to liberty, and one might add, con-
secrated by the blood of the Revolutionary
sires, who fought to establish freedom and
equal rights for all mankind, of whatever
faith or from whatever clime. That these
civil rights may not be subverted to un-
righteous ends and purposes, is the wish
and hope of every true-born and honorable
citizen, man or woman.
	When one becomes aware of the trickery,

[Column 2]
chicanery and treachery used in manipulat-
ing governmental affairs, it makes one fear
and tremble for the future safety and guid-
ance at the great centres of popular admin-
istration, whether in states or the country
at large.
	In our own fair state of Utah, of which
we are so justly proud, and for which so
many of us have labored and striven for
more than half a century, there has arisen
to the horror and dismay of all fair-minded
people of whatever creed, a faction that
would, if possible supplant the original in-
heritors of the rights so dearly purchased by
toil, hardship and privation, in wresting this
alkali desert from barrenness, and building
towns and cities, cultivating farms and or-
chards and gardens, and in every possible
way making it desirable for the establish-
ment of a great commonwealth here in the
mountains, far from the great cities of civil-
tion; in view of these things, one cannot
help recalling the circumstances and the
struggles of the pioneer life.
	The sacrifices made in coming hither
leaving homes and kindred, and the advan-
tages of surroundings that their own fore-
fathers had helped to establish, coming, too
without the comforts and supplies that
would have lessened in a degree the hard-
ships that must be encountered in such
long and tedious journeyings, and when one
reflects upon the loved ones laid down by
the wayside, in consequence of these condi-
tions, and all the perils incident to early
struggles for life and sustenance, one is hor-
rified at the thought that such threats could
be expressed as have been uttered and pub-
lished to the world.
	However, the trust of the Latter-day
Saints is in God, who has guided their foot-
steps to this goodly land, where they have
been able to accomplish greater things than
could have been anticipated when struggl-
ing for bread against hordes of crickets and
grasshoppers, to say nothing of wolves and
snakes and wild Indians that were here in
abundance.
	How the courage of men and women
held out is an enigma only to be solved in
the belief of their mighty faith and constant
prayers for help from on high.
	Suffice to say, the people lived and pros-
pered to the amazement of all who knew of
the circumstances, and now, when seeming-
ly all who gather here “Mormon, Jew or
Gentile” might be at peace and comfortable
if they would observe even proper, common-
place, everyday courtesy to one another,
pursuing their own vocations and not im-
posing on the rights of others there would
be peace, plenty, and prosperity.
	For one cannot help knowing that the
Lord has prospered the people in this great
mountain region almost beyond belief, when
one looks back upon sixty years of exper-
ience, and knowing thoroughly how severe
the struggles for an existence were, and how
miraculously many times the outcome has
been  brought about, when darkness hung
like a heavy cloud over the way. There-
fore those who trust in the Lord need not
fear, for the outcome, for assuredly right
will triumph over wrong though the powers
of evil combine.
	So many times the Latter day Saints have
seen the hand of the Almighty manifest in
their deliverance that there should be no
fear of danger, it will be diverted and fall
to naught if there is union among the peo-
ple.
	It is certainly desirable at the present
time that every one should conscientiously


and prayerfully view the situation in this 
city, county and state, and be sure they do 
so without prejudice or partisanship, and 
know each one for himself or herself, the 
serious consequences of throwing power into 
the hands of those who have sought to gain 
their own ends by fraud and deception. In 
this state where women have equal privileges 
with men they should be on the alert and 
active in season and out of season, in using 
their utmost influence as well as their ballot 
in and for all measures for the suppressing 
of vice and immorality of every sort, that 
the children and youth in this state may be 
protected as far as possible by law, that they 
may not be tempted to wrong-doing because of
the negligence of those who control public 
matters, that no unclean or wicked practices 
may have any sort of foothold in our city or 
county or be upheld by law or license. 
Every woman should, by her utmost in-
fluence, aid good, honest, honorable men in 
putting away all that is obnoxious and 
offensive to society and people, so far as it 
can be done by those who hold the balance 
of power in the franchise. 
	That this city may be free from anything 
that would pollute its clear, moral atmos-
phere, that Utah may be the pride of the 
West in temperance, morality and all the 
qualifications necessary to entitle her to 
take highest place among her sister states. 
Women with the ballot should be able to 
do much towards uplifting a standard of ex-
cellence for others to follow who do not have 
this precious gift, and that the women of 
Utah may stand fast for the betterment of 
society in all its various phases and avenues 
and especially for the purity of the home let 
us watch and pray always.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


TESTIMONIAL. 
TOKEN OF ESTEEM TO SISTER JANE S. 
RICHARDS. 
"Honor to whom honor is due," is an 
adage worthy of one's acceptance, yet how
rarely do we pause on life's highway long 
enough to give utterance to the thoughts 
that well in our hearts. Though we all 
appreciate appreciation, we fail to give it to 
others. 
So oft we check the loving word, leave deepest 
thought unsaid, 
Till friends are gone, then roses bring to scatter 
o'er our dead; 
O when shall we this lesson learn, save through 
regret and sorrow. 
That better kind words today, than roses on the 
morrow. 
	And so today we, the sisters of the Relief 
Society of the old Weber Stake of Zion, 
have come to tell you that we appreciate 
your long and faithful services in our midst. 
We love you for your true worth and for that 
you have done; for that broad charity that 
has been exemplified in your life. To quote 
your own favorite creed, "We did not all 
have the same mother," and so failings 
have been overlooked and the friendly hand 
extended; no cry of distress has reached 
your ears in vain; the naked have been
clothed, the hungry fed, the sick com-
forted, the dying soothed and the dead pre-
pared for their last long sleep. 
Shoulder to shoulder you have stood, 
with the best women that have ever graced 
the earth, Sister Eliza, Aunt Zina, and Aunt 
Bathsheba. With them your labors have 
reached through the different Stakes of Zion 
and to the nation of which we form a part. 
Not alone has the Relief Society been


blessed through your labors’ but the Y. L. 
M. I. A., owes its inception, birth and exist-
ence to your untiring efforts. It was Sister
Richards’ heart that yearned after the wel-
fare of the young girls, she it was, who as 
early as 1873 called a meeting of the young 
women of Ogden, including girls over eight
years of age. This meeting was so prolific 
of good that others were pleaded for and for 
six years they continued, finally culminat-
ing in the organization of the Y. L. M. I
A., on May 10, 1879. 
	Time fails us to enumerate the good you 
have accomplished, but your name must 
necessarily be forever linked with the his-
tory of the Relief Society. Home industries; 
the storing of wheat and many other good 
things have received your fostering care and 
untiring energy. 
	The whitening snow of winters, the 
scorching sun of summers have found you 
at your post of duty, until the Priesthood of 
the Lord have said, “It is enough”
	Your day of labor is past, twilight has 
come, enjoy your beautiful evening in peace; 
let nothing mar your quiet; hold sweet com-
munion with angels and loved ones, and as 
twilight deepens into night, and the mists 
gather around you, may our Father’s sus-
taining power be with you, the joy of a well-
spent life enlighten the gloom; may your 
vision penetrate the shadows, and, like 
Moses, may you view the better land where 
await your loved ones and all the sanctified 
in the Celestial Kingdom of our God.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY CONJOINT MEETING
AND BANQUET
In honor of the retiring President of Weber 
Stake JANE S. RICHARDS. 
On September 10, 1908, the Relief Society 
of Weber County, heretofore comprising the
Weber Stake of Zion, held its last quarterly 
conference. The stake had grown to such 
proportions that it was deemed proper, for 
its better development to divide it into three 
stakes, which will hereafter be known as 
Weber, Ogden and North Weber stakes. This 
conference was long to be remembered by 
those present. For 37 years President Jane S. 
Richards has held sway over the hearts and 
lives of the sisters of this stake, and it was 
to do honor to her that the people came out 
en masse. 
There were present on this occasion, 
Apostle David O. McKay, Presidents of the 
Weber, Ogden and North Weber stakes, Elder 
Franklin S. Richards of Salt Lake, bishops 
and other leading brethren, General Relief 
Society Secretary Emmeline B. Wells and 
Emily S. Richards of the General Board, 
also the Relief Society presidents of the three 
newly organized stakes, and not least among 
them our former President Jane S. Richards, 
surrounded by those who for so many years 
have labored under her direction and guid-
ance. The Hall was filled to its utmost 
capacity. 
At 11 a. m. the conference convened. Pre-
sident Jane S. Richards presiding. 
Singing "We thank Thee O God for a 
prophet." 
Prayer was offered by Elder Franklin S. 
Richards, continued by singing the hymn 
"O say, what is truth?" 
President Jane S. Richards spoke words 
of welcome and expressed her gratitude for 
the privilege of meeting once more with the 
sisters and those interested in Relief Society 
work. She had greatly enjoyed her labors 
in this connection and said the work of the 
Relief Society is worth doing well, and she 

[Column 2]
trusted all would bear this in mind and give 
to the work the best of which we are cap-
able. 
Apostle David O. McKay said: we have 
met here today to do honor to Sister Jane 
S. Richards, who has labored lo! these many 
years in the interests of the Relief Society of 
the Weber Stake of Zion. Too much honor
could not be shown to her. He looked upon 
the women of Zion as queens for they were 
the mothers in Israel, and no greater honor 
can come to any woman than Motherhood. 
Rehearsed the story of the Roman mother's 
jewels and referred to the jewels of Sister
Richards—jewels whose influence was felt 
in Zion through service for others; also told 
the beautiful story of Hannah and her boy, 
whom she gave to the Lord; of Ruth and 
others, using them as illustrations of service 
and sacrifice of self. Asked the blessing of 
the Lord upon the queens—the mothers in 
Israel, that they might let the beauty and 
grandeur of motherhood be known in the 
world. Paid a glowing tribute to the labors 
of Sister Richards and prayed the blessing 
of heaven to be round about her through her 
remaining years. 
General Secretary Emmeline B. Wells said 
she was present when Sister Richards was 
called to preside over the Relief Society of 
the Weber Stake of Zion; this was the first 
Stake organized and Sister Richards its first 
president. Testified to the noble work she 
had accomplished and to the sweet spirit of 
humility that had characterized her whole 
life. Felt glad that she had been relieved 
of the arduous labors she had borne so long, 
and her prayer was that those who had been 
called to the work might carry it on success-
fully. All who are called to positions of im- 
portance gain development as they could 
gain it in no other way—Sister Richards has 
proven this and as a star she shines among 
the brightest. Referred to the rapid and 
gigantic growth of the Relief Society in all 
the world and showed the absurdity of its 
being composed entirely of elderly sisters. 
President Lewis W. Shurtliff was glad to 
be present to do honor to Sister Richards; 
he had known her long and intimately and 
had always found her in quest of sickness 
and distress that she might bring relief and 
comfort. May God bless her for that she 
has done. The work has grown to immense 
proportions and there is work for all. 
Sister Emily S. Richards said that Weber 
stake had had some of the best opportunities 
for gaining knowledge and that they had 
come largely through the energy of Sister 
Richards. She placed the magnitude of her 
achievements with those of Sister Wells, 
though in a different line yet each have been 
marvelous in scope. The Relief Society has 
done more for the women of Zion than we
can ever do for the society. 
A Token of Esteem to Sister Jane S. Rich-
ards was then read by the assistant secretary, 
Nellie Becraft, at the close of which a small 
memento was presented. 
Sister Richards responded in a few well 
chosen words, telling of the joy and satisfac-
tion she had always felt in the labors of the 
society.  Appreciated the love and support 
of the sisters, commended them for their 
faithfulness and prayed the Lord to ever 
bless them in their labors. 
President Emily M. Shurtliff of the Weber 
Stake Relief Society asked the sisters to re-
spond with a hearty Amen if they were satis-
fied with what had been done for Sister Rich-
ards. This was given unanimously. 
President Charles C. Richards of the Ogden


Stake spoke of the labors of his mother and
also his father in the Relief Society cause,
and said the monument of their good deeds
was more to the family than wealth of gold.
Urged the sisters of the three stakes to a
continuance of the labors begun; this, he
knew, was his mother’s wish. Thanked all
who had so ably supported her in her labors
and prayed heaven’s choicest blessings upon
them.
	Elder Franklin S. Richards was glad to see
this day, was thankful that the Priesthood
had seen fit to release his mother from the
arduous duties of the Relief Society. What
ever failings had been they had been through
frailties of the body. Words failed to express
the appreciation of the family for the love
and esteem that had ever been given his
mother. Thanked those who had stood at
her side to aid her—every sister and brother
who had added their part to her success, and
trusted choicest blessings be meted out to
them.
	Singing “The spirit of God like a fire is
burning.”
	Benediction was pronounced by Elder
Robert McQuarrie, after which a banquet
was served in an ajoining hall, thus a spirit-
ual and a temporal feast was enjoyed and a
social time spent that will linger in our me-
mories for years to come, bringing sweet
thoughts and pleasing reflections.
				NELLY BECRAFT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.
	Died at Union, Salt Lake County, Sept. 19th,
1908, Sister Mary Anderson, the beloved wife of
Brother Andrew Anderson. She had been a great
sufferer for many years. In the early organization
of our Relief Society, she was a most efficient
teacher, ever ready and willing to help the poor,
the sick and the afflicted; later she was chosen
1st Counselor to Sister Mary Ann Smart, and re-
mained so until death released her.
	Sister Anderson was a wise counselor, a faithful
wife and a loving mother. She left her earthly all
for the gospel sake. She was born in the City of
Copenhagen, Denmark, August 21, 1834, baptized
in October, 1855, by Brother Ole Peterson; mar-
ried at Florence, June 18, 1863, by W. W. Cluff.
She leaves a loving husband, five sons and three
daughters, to mourn her loss, one preceding her
to the spirit world; also 33 grandchildren and three
greatgrandchildren, and two sisters, living at Mon-
roe, Sevier County.
	She was an ardent worker in our Relief Society.
May we ever emulate her wise counsel, for we
realize she has fought the good fight, and endured
to the end. Our loss is surely, her eternal gain,
“Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from
henceforth, they rest from their labors and their
works do follow them.”
	She was buried from the Union Ward Meeting
House, which was beautifully draped in white and
the hall was filled to overflowing. The floral offer-
ings were beautiful and numerous.
	The musical selections that were rendered by
the choir under the leadership of Brother Wm.
Cox were very impressive and beautiful.
	The speakers were Presidents Goff and Jensen
of the Stake Presidency, Elder Lindahl, Mary A.
Smart; also Brothers Wm. Panter and John Walker
of the Ward Bishopric in the absence of Bishop
Burgon, who was on a visit to England. She was
followed to South Cottonwood Cemetry by a long
train of carriages, bearing sorrowing relatives and
friends.
				President Mary Smart,
				Counselor Harriet Wilkens,
				Rosabel Walker, Secretary,
				Lucy A. Brady, Treasurer.
	P. S.—Sister Mary Anderson was a subscriber
to your valuable little paper which she with us
has always prized and its contents, which gave her
much pleasure and filled her heart with joy many
times when clouds appeared.
	Hoping you are well and will live many years
to publish your valuable paper which should be
in every household. I am sure every sister would
take it if they only knew the influence it carries
with it. I have always taken it and hope I always
will. Lovingly,
					MARY A. SMART.


[Column 1]	
			R. S. REPORTS.
		PANGUITCH STAKE.
	Panguitch Stake Relief Society Confer-
ence convened in the Panguitch Tabernacle
June 24, 1908, First Counselor Alice J.
Cameron presiding. Opening exercises,
minutes, etc.
	President H. A. Crosby was glad to meet
with her sisters in conference, but was
greatly disappointed in not having some of
the sisters from Salt Lake City to visit us;
but prayed the Lord to bless us in our con-
ference that we might have a time of rejoic-
ing together, and be built up and benefitted
by coming.
	Counselor Sarah A. Houston, like Presi-
dent Crosby, felt disappointed beeause we
had no sisters from Salt Lake to attend our
conference. Reported her visit around the
stake, had a good time, enjoyed the trip,
but was very tired. Said they found all of
the organizations in good running order but
two, and their presidents had resigned on
account of poor health. They had filled each
vacancy and all was in good order. Asked
the Lord to bless all the Relief Society
branches in the Stake.
	Maria L. Sargent told of her trip around
the stake. Had Brother John S. Crosby to
drive for them. Found in every ward only
the same few sisters that always attend to
their meetings, and the others they could
not get at. Thought that was where we
needed our sisters to work in the homes and
get the sisters that never come to meetings
of any kind interested in Relief Society
work. They do not know what it is or they
would come, not lose such precious bless-
ings. The sisters wherever we went were
interested in storing wheat.
	The secretary read a report from Kingston
ward, the sisters were doing good work, had
sent some money to the Manti Temple to
pay for work for the dead. Some of the
sisters wanted to come to conference but
couldn’t get away to come.
	Sister Julia Wilson reported the Hillsdale
Ward was not doing very well on ac-
count of their president being sick for over
a year, but hoped to do better in the future.
	Sister Gemmitt Ott, president of Tropic
Ward, reported her ward as being fully or-
ganized, and have been taking the lessons
as outlined.
	Sister Jane Rappley of Tropic told of the
way they had been carrying on their lessons
during the winter, had chosen sides and de-
bated. and had learned much. The teach-
ers must visit every month. Had some wheat
on hand and hoped to be able to store more
this fall. The Bishops had promised to
help them with their wheat.
	Sister Elizabeth Cameron hoped to be
able to do her duty. Asked the Lord to
bless us and unite us.
	Conference was adjourned until 2 o’clock
after singing and benediction.
	Conference reconvened at 2 o’clock p. m.
Opened with singing, prayer, minutes, etc.
	Sister Mary B. Heywood reported the
Panguitch Relief Society. Said all that at-
tended the meetings were benefitted and
seemed to be interested, were taking the
lessons as outlined. Thought the attend-
ance was better this year than last; as an
average it was 30. Had sent several sisters
to take the nurses class course. Read a
letter from Sister Mabel Church who had
taken the nurse class course and graduated
with honors.
	Sister Bnnker from Mexico said she well
remembered when the Relief Society was

[Column 2]
organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith, and
had been a member ever since; was thank-
ful for the privilege. Told of the martyr-
dom of the Prophet Joseph, and of her testi-
mony that Brigham Young was the man to
take his place and carry on the work of the
Lord. Prayed the Lord to bless our Soci-
ety.
	Sister Elizabeth DeLong bore her testi-
mony to the work of the Lord that we are
engaged in. Said the Relief Society work
was a great one. Advised the sisters to be
careful what they say and not backbite each
other, but say good things about each other,
for the Relief society sisters are expected to
do a great work and help each other.
	Sister Adeline Tuttle, a worker in the
Manti Temple was glad to meet with the sis-
ters. Bore her testimony to the Gospel.
Advised the brethren and sisters to do more
Temple work for themselves and their dead
friends.
	Sister Zina Hanks recited “In Grandpa’s
Days.”
	Sister Ella Cameron from Idaho, said she
was very glad to meet with the sisters in
conference, felt well in the work, and asked
the Lord to bless us all.
	Sister Kate Heywood thought the Relief
Society work was grand, but she couldn’t
always come to meeting, but would like to
attend the meetings regularly. Asked the
Lord to bless us all with the spirit of cheer-
fulness.
	President David Cameron gave us some
good advice. Told of the Prophet Joseph
Smith, his good work for women when he
organized the Relief Society. Encouraged
the sisters to press on in the good work.
	President M. M. Steele was always glad
to meet with the sisters. Urged them to be
punctual, “Start on time and stop on time.”
Spoke of the word of wisdom. Said all the
sisters who held offices in the Relief Society
should obey the word of wisdom. “Sisters
don’t tempt your husbands by offering them
tea or coffee. May the Lord help us to do our
duty at all times.”
	President H. A. Crosby said conference
would adjourn until ten o’clock tomorrow
morning after singing and benediction.
			Panguitch, June 25, 1908.
	The second days’ conference convened.
Opened with singing and prayer; continued
singing, minutes, etc.
	Sister Alice Jane Cameron was the first
speaker; said she was glad to be able to
meet with the sisters in this conference and
that we had the Spirit of the Lord with us.
Spoke of the power of prayer. That we
should always pray and teach our children
to pray. We should be careful in the train-
ing of our children. Keep them in nights;
that all parents should be united in the
training of our children, for we sisters can
do nothing alone. Spoke of the Stake fund,
explained what it is used for. Said we
should teach our children the principle of
tithing and all the principles of the Gospel.
Teach our children to be polite to the aged
people.
	Sister Ann Burgess, a very aged and dear
sister, 87 years, gave us some good
instruction, bore a strong testimony of the
Gospel. Told of how she became a Latter-
day Saint. Prayed the Lord to bless us all
and comfort us in our homes.
	Sister Emily Bunker said she had been a
member of the Church 68 years, and was
proud to be numbered with such people,
and hoped to be found faithful to the end.
Told of her mothers experience with the


[Column 1]
Indians. She was taken captive, but her
life was preserved. Told of the early his-
tory of the Church, which was very interest-
ing. Spoke of the way the people disregard
the Sabbath day. It should not be done;
we should keep God’s commandments and
keep the Sabbath day holy. We should live
for something besides pleasure.
	President Hannah A. Crosby was glad
and thankful for the testimony of our aged
sisters, we should value it beyond price.
Advised mothers to watch their children and
teach them the Gospel. Do not let them
run the streets nights, for there are so many
temptatious. Spoke of the missionaries and
their work, and of the word of wisdom.
	Dismissed by singing and benediction.
	The afternoon session of our conference
commenced by singing and prayer; contin-
ued by singing and minutes, etc.
	Sister Ella Cameron was the first speak-
er. Told of her trip to Salt Lake City to
attend the Young Ladies’ Mutual confer-
ence. It was well represented, from Cana-
da in the north to old Mexico in the south.
Had some very good instructions. Wished
all could live up to what we have heard.
Told of the companionship that should ex-
ist between mother and daughter. Home-
making is the duty of every mother, and
they should have happy homes.
	Sister Adair from Tropic Ward gave a
lecture on the life of our Savior. The first
miracle of our Lord and Savior at a mar-
riage-feast, where he turned water into
wine.
	Sister Rachel Wilson recited a piece en-
titled “The Amen Corner.”
	Brother William Cameron of Idaho was
glad to meet with the Relief Society. Asked
the Lord to bless all the sisters in their
noble work. Spoke of the training of our
children, keep them in good company.
Urged the sisters not to talk about each
other and try to pull others down; but try to
build each other up. “God bless all of the
sisters. Amen.”
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, President of
the Relief Society in all the world, and
other officers were sustained, also President
Hannah A. Crosby, and the Panguitch Stake
officers of the Relief Society.
	Conference was then adjourned for one
year. Closed by the choir singing ‘‘School
thy feelings, O my brother.,’ Benediction
Elder Leonard Sargent.
			SARAH D. DYRETT.
					Stake Secretary.
			ALPINE STAKE.
 	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the Alpine Stake of Zion was held
at Pleasant Grove, July 17, 1908. President
Rebecca Strandring presiding.
	Our conference was favored with the at-
tendance of Sisters Ida Smoot Dusenberry
and Sarah J. Cannon of the General Board.
	After the usual exercises President Stand-
ring greeted the sisters and reported the
Stake in good condition, felt gratified with
the advancement of the work and the unity
of the sisters. “The Lord had a special pur-
pose in organizing this Society. It is for the
sisters to be helps to the brethren, but this
was only secondary; we were to save souls,
and to raise our children in the fear of the
Lord. The work of the Lord is growing and
we should endeavour to keep up to the
times.” Prayed for the spirit of the Lord
to dictate us at all times.
	Lehi, 1st ward, reported by President
Hannah P. Jones. Lehi, 2nd ward, by Presi-

[Column 2]
dent Kate Allred. American Fork, 1st ward,
President E. J. Durrant. American Fork,
2nd ward, President Sarah S. Chipman.
	The presidents all gave encouraging re-
ports. Meetings are fairly well attended and
teachers visit regularly. The lessons on
faith are well received. Have agreed to take
up a labor with those who neglect Sacra-
ment meetings.
	Song, “Star of Bethlehem,” by Pleasant
Grove Sisters.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon was pleased to
meet the sisters of Alpine Stake, and to see
them stand up at roll call. Our organization
is so perfect that we have no need to pass
over our local officers to go to the head for
advice on any ordinary subject or business.
Parents should know all about their chil-
dren, and their affairs. Make home pleasant,
and encourage them in their Church work
and to be obedient to their parents and to
the priesthood. It takes parents all their
time to keep peace and order in their fam-
lies. Liked to know that the Society in
the wards had means on hand to help in
any emergency that might need help.
	Sister Dusenberry had been away from
home for some time, and felt to appreciate
her home and her religion more and more,
and felt the worth of her own people. Spoke
of an instance where a gentleman who stood
in the meeting of the Saints in New York
testified of the influence exercised on him by
being in contact with two Mormon elders,
mere boys. The influence of the Mormon
elders is a great attraction for people not of
our faith. Related several incidents of her
travels and experience among outsiders and
those opposed to our principles. Realized
that it is the actions and example of a per-
son that influences the people more than
their words. It is our lives that count, our
words amount to nothing comparatively.
There are many good people in the world,
and though they may be careless now, in
due time the truth will dawn upon them
and they will know that the Mormons are
honest and sincere and that they seek the
welfare of the people.
	President Stephen L. Chipman felt grati-
fied in hearing the reports and testimonies.
Noticed that few of the young women are
connected with this Society. We want more
help and it is necessary that the younger
women should be getting the experience to
fill these positions. Spoke of the Relief So-
ciety grain, thought the granaries should be
examined and made sound and good for the
reception of the new wheat. Spoke of can-
vassers who are around deceiving the peo-
ple, and warned the sisters to be careful
what they sign their names to, for these
agents are not reliable and we should be on
our guard.
	Meeting closed by singing and Benedic-
tion. Conference adjourned until 2 o’clock.
	Afternoon Session. Conference reas-
sembled at 2 p. m. President Standring
presiding.
	After the opening exercises President M.
E. Abel reported American Fork, 3rd ward.
President C. Thorne reported Lindon. Ellen
Jones Lehi, 3rd ward
	The reports were gratifying. The poor
are fed, the sick visited and sisters always
ready to respond to the calls made upon
them.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon of the General
Board was glad to hear of the good spirit
that exists in this stake. We should try to
be as good Latter-day Saints as possible;
had seen the Prophet Joseph Smith when
she was a small girl. We have been taught

[Column 3]
and counseled to live upright lives, and
where we have followed the counsel of those
placed over us, we have come out all right.
We should try to appreciate our blessings,
and while we have the opportunity let us be
kind to each other and not wait until it is
too late. Let us try to do as well as we
know how. Mothers have great responsibi-
lities and also many opportunities to learn
the gospel and many things necessary to our
advancement. May the Lord be ever good
to us.
	Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry. ‘‘I used
to think that Relief Society work was only
for the older sisters, but as I have traveled
and visited the stake conferences, I have de-
cided that it was for the younger ones as
well. God can take the humblest of His
children, and make of them an instrument
to do His will. Our experiences are our
education, and more especially if we have
eyes to see and ears to hear. How good and
just the Lord is, He has not said to some,
you may have the light, you may have the
flowers, you may have the sunshine, but has
given all these beauties of nature to all of
us. They are all ours to enjoy. Let us
keep good cheer for everyone, speak a kind
word and often that will lift a load from the
saoulders of our friends. The only way to
grow is by doing good to others. May the
Lord give you a spirit of love, sympathy and
progression”
	A solo was rendered by one of the sisters.
	Brother James H. Clarke of the Stake
Presidency. You sisters are not here be-
cause of time you have to spare, but you are
here to do your duty, and to partake of the
spirit and influence of this conference. Our
minds are drawn away from our every day-
labors for a few hours, and our spirits are
directed to our Heavenly Father who organ-
ized this Church for the benefit of His chil-
dren. The law of tithing is given for our
temporal as well as our spiritual salvation.
Some think that all they need to live for is
this life, but I think we should live with the
thought that this life is to fit us for a future
state. We are here at school to get experi-
ence to prepare us for our future life. Let
us attain to as high a sphere as we can, for
there is an eternity to follow this life. Make
the duties of the Church a pleasure. Make
the paying of tithing a pleasure. This will
strengthen our faith because of the blessings
our Father returns to us. Convert your-
selves, convert your husbands to this law,
for it is as much a principle of the gospel as
baptism. Great responsibilities rests upon
us as fathers and mothers. Let us be care-
ful of the children God has given us. Let
us help each other and be mutual in this.
As we grow stronger and do our duty day
by day we are saved.
	Bishop John R. Hindley was struck with
the remark of the sisters in giving the re-
ports that they loved the work and the du-
ities placed upon them in the Relief Society.
If we can do this we can become a great
help to others as well as to ourselves. Our
young sisters do not realize what they are
missing. The blessings cannot be ours un-
less we work for them. The temporal part 
of our lives are crowding out the spiritual
part. Let us give more attention to the spi-
ritual things that will be ours in the future.
	Bishop Lewis was delighted with the sen-
timents expressed by the speakers. “Seek
first the kingdom of God, and all other
things shall be added unto you.” I often
wonder whether we do this to the extent
that we should. “There is no excellence
without labor,” and the Relief Society sis-


ters are not afraid of labor. May each of us
profit by the teachings of this conference.
	Singing, Doxology. Benediction by Pre-
sident Standring.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
				E. J. T. ROBERTS,
							Cor. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
KEEP THE SABBATH DAY HOLY.
	“Remember the Sabbath day to keep it
holy, six days shalt thou labor and do all
thy work. But the seventh day is the Sab-
bath of the Lord thy God. In it thou shalt
do no work. Thou nor thy son, nor thy
daughter, nor thy man servant, nor thy maid
servant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger with-
in thy gates!” was one of the commandments
which God gave to his ancient covenant peo-
ple, through his Prophet Moses.
	I will now quote from a revelation given
through the Prophet Joseph Smith, by the
Lord, to his Saints in this day, on August 7,
1831. see Doctrine and Covenants, sec. 59,
9th to 21st par.:
	“And that thou mayest more fully keep
thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt
go to the house of prayer and offer up thy
sacraments upon my holy day.
	“For verily this is a day appointed unto
you to rest from your labors and to pay thy
devotions unto the Most High.
	“Nevertheless thy vows shall be offered
up in righteousness on all days, and at all
times.
	“But remember on this the Lord’s day
thou shalt offer thine oblations, and thy
sacraments unto the Most High, confessing
thy sins unto thy brethren, and before the
Lord.
	“And on this day thou shalt do none other
thing, only let thy food be prepared with
singleness of heart, that thy fasting may be
perfect, or, in other words, that thy joy may
be full.
	“Verily, this is fasting and prayer, or in
other words rejoicing and prayer.
	“And inasmuch as ye do these things
with thanksgiving, with cheerful hearts and
countenances, not with much laughter, for
this is sin but,with a glad heart and a cheer-
ful countenance.
	“Verily I say, that inasmuch as ye do this,
the fulness of the earth is yours, the beasts
of the field, the fowls of the air, and that
which climbeth upon the trees, and walketh
upon the earth.
	“Yea and the herb and the good things
which cometh of the earth, whether for food
or for raiment, or for houses or for barns, or
for orchards, or for gardens, or for vine-
yards.
	“Yea all things which come of the earth,
in the season thereof, are made for the benefit
and the use of man, both to please the eye,
and to gladden the heart.
	“Yea for food and for raiment, for taste
and for smell, to strengthen the body, and
to enliven the soul.
	“And it pleaseth God that he had given
all these things unto man, for unto this end
were they made, to be used with judgment,
not to excess, neither by extortion.
	“And in nothing doth man offend God, or
against none is his wrath kindled, save those
who confess not his hand in all things, and
obey not his commandments.”
	I have quoted from the revelation given
unto us in this day by the Lord, through
him, who we all testify to be a prophet raised
up by him in this day and age in which we
live.

[Column 2]
	Do we seriously consider the fearful re-
sponsibility which is placed upon us, who
profess to be Saints?
	Can we who feel in a measure this great
responsibility afford, to neglect, to set an ex-
ample which is worthy of imitation by all,
by whom we may be surrounded, our chil-
dren, our children’s children, and our neigh-
bor’s children. For many parents who keep
the laws of God strictly, and conscientiously
themselves, behold with sorrow, their chil-
dren led away by the pernicious influence of
their neighbor, or their friend, who perchance
may think that they are too strict, or too
pious, as they aften term it.
	My Sisters can we be too strict in keeping
the commandments of God? I think not! can
we consistently call ourselves Saints if we
willfully, or carelessly, neglect to keep the
commandments which he has given us, and
which are reiterated constantly by his serv-
ants, of whom we testify, that we know they
are called of God?. Have we not covenanted
in sacred and holy places, to keep all of his
laws and commandments, and teach them
to our children?
	If we do not fear for our own sake, to
break or disregard these laws, we should be
very careful of our conduct, for our children’s
sake and the stranger within our gates.
	One may ask how can we get along with
the work which we have to do, and not work
upon the Sabbath day, especially mothers
who have large families of children.
	In the first place it is necessary that we
should become converted to the fact, that
our Heavenly Father gives no command-
ment, to his children, which he will not give
them power to live up to. He has told us
to rest from our labors, on that holy day,
and to go to the house of prayer, now if we
will do this, He will certainly give us of his
holy spirit, which will admonish us of our
duties, and give us inspiration by which we
may be guided in the performance of them,
in a manner that will be acceptable to him.
	“Many hands make light work” and if a
mother of a family trains them properly,
there is no reason why they should not all
be able to enjoy the rest of the Sabbath day,
A careful mother will plan her work for the
week, in a manner that will not find her
overburdened with house cleaning at the end
thereof, but will quietly perform some por-
tion of it every day, and see that each mem-
ber of the family has his, or her, own especial
duties to perform, in their time and season.
There is no reason why our children should
be allowed to play or study, all the time,
we should as parents be generals or com-
manders of the forces at our command, and
study and work and play should be so classi-
fied, as to give proper time to each, and the
strictest obedience to discipline should be
required. If obedience be, as we are told,
the first law of heaven, obedience to that
law certainly should be insisted upon! Now
as to methods, by which obedience may be
brought about, they are manifold, and vari-
ous and many articles might be written upon
that vexed question, and yet “the half would
not be told” sufficient for this article to say,
that without obedience all would be chaos,
and that the very foundation of the super-

[Column 3]
structure which goes to make up a noble
character is obedience.
	Mothers can do much toward having their
children look forward to the Sabbath day
with pleasure as I said before. Do not let
the preparation for the Sabbath day, become
unduly burdensome at the end of the week,
so that it will impress itself in an unfavor-
able manner upon the minds of children.
In my childhood it was a custom, (every one
did it) in our home to turn every thing out
of the house on Saturday and every shelf
and every floor was scoured, yes literally
scoured with sand, until one could have
eaten off of any part of the floors, and every
member of the family, by night were worn out:
such a horror of Saturday cleaning, that I
vowed, that when I had a home of my own
I should never have a Saturday cleaning day!
and I have kept that vow. I try to manage
my work in such a way that Saturday is al-
most a leisure day, a preparation for the
Sabbath day, when I shall not be too weary
to enjoy its rest.
	I am sensible that where there are large
families, the management is more difficult,
but good generalship certainly will accom-
plish it. We should impress upon our chil-
dren the fact that God has commanded, that
we keep holy the Sabbath day and that we
dare not disobey him!
	As to those who serve us, the responsibili-
ty lies with us, to see that all who are with-
in our gates, except those who are unable,
and those upon whom devolves their care,
should go to the house of prayer.
			CAROLINE C. R. WELLS.
		(To be Continued.)


NOTES AND NEWS.
	One of the results of the extension of the
franchise to women in Norway is that
henceforward women employed in the postal
service are to receive the same pay as men.
Norwegian women are greatly rejoicing over
this victory.
	Mrs. Zella Nuttall, who has received
many honors from American and foreign
scientific associations for her explorations
and archaelogical researches, is now in Mex-
ico engaged as field director of the Reid-
Crocker Mission, which is excavating the
Pyramids of the sun and the moon at
Teothuacan. This work is carried on large-
ly through funds furnished by two other
American women—Mrs. Whitelaw Reid and
Mrs. Crocker of San Francisco.
	Mrs. Emily P. Collins was 94 years young
on August 11. She received congratulations
at her home, 60 Newbury avenue, Atlantic,
Mass., where she lives with her grandchil-
dren. Mrs. Collins organized the earliest
womansuffrage association in the world, in
the Western part of New York State. In
the same year she sent to the Legislature
what she believes to have been the first
woman suffrage petition ever sent to the
Legislature of any State. It bore the sig-
natures of sixty of the more prominent men
and women in Bristol, New York, with a
few from neighboring towns.		Exp.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
					67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY		LADIES’ READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS	TRY US
					OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 37.					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER, 1908.						No. 4.


CONTENTS.
									PAGE
Pioneer Literature and Writers.......................
	...............................Annie Wells Cannon	25
Relief Society Stake Reports: Snowflake		27
	Liberty—Union—Millard—Nebo—
	Uintah.....................................................	30
Ministering Christmas Angels........................
	...................................Susa Young Gates	29
Twenty-ninth Anniversary....Amelia Wardrop	29
In Memoriam of Elizabeth Hill Maughan......	31
Birthday Party........................Emily Isaacson	31
Portland Relief Society...................................	31
National Council of Women...........................	32
Notes and News..............................................	32
Essay on Prayer............................Rinta Snow	32
Editorial:—The Election of a President.........	28
	Editorial Notes........................................	28
Poetry:—Intuitive Solace.........Ellis R. Shipp	25


INTUITIVE SOLACE.
I hunted all over the garden
My garden now yellow and sere
I wanted a flower for my darling,
	A flower with a message of cheer.
But dead leaves were rustling about me,
	The lilies had bent their fair heads,
The sweet peas and asters in mourning,
	With the daisies asleep in their beds.
I turned with a sigh, while I wondered,
	Why all things so lovely must fade;
Why love’s tender ties must be sundered,
	And hopes in their graves must be laid.
Why eyes must grow dim with their weeping,
	Why hearts must e’en break with their ach-
		ing,
Why moments slip on while we’re sleeping,
	And life’s wine is lost in partaking.
In vain I had sought for a treasure,
	That breathed of new life and great peace;
Disappointment I found without measure,
	But nothing heart-hunger to ease.
My soul was o’erwrought with a sorrow,
	My head bent low on my breast;
E’en hopes in the joys of a morrow,
	Seemed all dead along with the rest.
But just as my footsteps were turning,
	My heart gave a sudden great bound;
Ah, somethfng I saw small and purple,
	Yes, surely one flower I had found.
It scarcely could peep from the grasses
	And leaves that enshrouded it there,
Just kissed by the sun’s glinting flashes,
	My dear little violet fair.
I’d been seeking for flowers most regal,
	All gorgeous in color and form;
Forgetting that nothing could equal
	The sweet, modest violet’s charm.
So fragrant, and yet unassuming,
	How perfect your power of speech,
So faithful for aye in your blooming,
	Most potent the lesson you teach.
Inspiring a patient endurance,
	Though trodden beneath careless feet;
Firm trust and a constant assurance,
	Our joys in the end are complete.
Sweet spirit of infinite feeling,
	E’en found in the folds of this flower,
Go thou with divine, tender healing,
	And comfort her heart from this hour.
						ELLIS R. SHIPP.


[Column 1]
PIONEER LITERATURE AND WRITERS.
		ANNIE WELLS CANNON.
				I.
	In the different epochs of the world’s his-
tory great spirits have been born to carry
out the wondrous designs of the Creator.
	Few comparatively are the names passed
down through the generations that have
achieved great deeds in the world’s drama,
so turning back the page we read of Moses
and the prophets, but the names of those
who helped them in their great works are
long since forgotten. Then we come to the
awakening and the world is illumined by
the birth of Christ, marvelous was the work
of his disciples, men and women that their
names have been handed down through the
centuries to be revered by the children of
men as Saints; and yet it is the Saints, those
whose lives are nothing in the balance
against the work of God who have left their
“foot prints on the sands of time” and
whose praises are sung throughout the ages.
	Since the hour of the transfiguration when
Christ died that man might live, nations
have had their rise and fall and men and
women have played great parts upon the
stage of life.
	The brightest constellation of stars since
that time in all the world’s great history ap-
peared with the dawn of the 19th century.
	The civilized world was shocked and dev-
astated with Napoleon’s great army. Liter-
ature, science, art, religion, all the finer feel-
ings were dormant, commerce and invention
were stagnated, for the wealth, force and
sinew of nations was being applied towards
checking the onward march of that master
General but there was a quickening in the
world’s pulse when Napoleon met his Water-
loo. Out of the darkness came great light.
In the literary world alone were born many
most glorious spirits, Hugo, Eliot, Dickens,
Bancroft. But the brightest star in all this
wondrous constellation, the brightest since
the sorrowful Nazarene, was the spirit of
JOSEPH SMITH THE PROPHET.
	With him came others to help in his won-
drous work, chosen spirits sent by the Mas-
ter to perform the Master’s work and among
those master spirits are those of whom the
Latter-day Saints may be justly proud today
for their fine literary genius and attainments.
	It has been remarked that Utah has made
much greater advance in music and in art
than she has in literature, that from a world-
ly standpoint in fact she had made no pro-
gress at all, her writers had made no fame
outside her boundaries, while her musicians
and painters were widely known.
	If this be true, as perhaps it is in part, it
is due to the fact that the literature of Utah
is largely of a religious nature and a prejudic-
ed world is reluctant to give merit even where
merit is due. Sublime themes in painting
and music are inspiring and pleasing to the
eye and ear without particularly appealing
to one’s reasoning powers, while the same
subjects dealt with in a literary way call
forth the reasoning and argumentative pow-
ers of the mind and are less apt to receive
favor. A picture is accepted by the critics
not for the sermon that it preaches or the

[Column 2]
story that it tells but for its beauty in shad-
ing and coloring, its perfect perspective, its
symmetry and lines. A musical composition
not so much for its theme but such arrange-
ment of sound as to produce the most tell-
ing and harmonious effects; but a poem or
a story or writings of any kind must have
besides the genius of inspiration and the
learned acquirement of composition the art
to appeal to the sympathy and reason of the
human mind, before it ranks among the
classics. That Utah has now and has al-
ways had such works I do maintain whether
the world’s critics received them as such or
not. The writings of the Utah authors should
justly claim a first place in the ranks for
erudition, composition, inspiration and sen-
timent.
	True in the field of literature known as
Fiction Utah can make little claim to excel-
lence and yet in all the world’s history there
can scarcely be found a people, whose tradi-
tions, experiences and sentiment so abound
in those attributes and acquirements which
are necessary for the making of a successful
novel. A people taught, however, almost
from the beginning to refrain from reading
that class of literature are not very likely to
study the art of composing it and what few
attempts have been made have been confined
largely to the short story telling for maga-
zines and newspapers by some of our later
writers with probably the exception of the
dramas and stories of Edward W. Tullidge
and that rather striking story of Corianton
from the Book of Mormon by Brigham H.
Roberts and some religious novels by Nephi
Anderson.
	The class of literature embracing treatises,
essays, letters, history, journalism, and
poetry, has always existed with the people
of Utah and is of the highest and best order.
	In the building of an empire where all the
strength and ability of every man, woman
and child, had to be spent towards the mak-
ing of homes, little time could be given to-
wards the cultivation of the talents in the
higher refinements, and yet from the founda-
tion of the Church the Latter-day Saints
have been a studious reading people and the
record of the Church itself is a literary dra-
ma.
	“Seek ye out of the best books words of
wisdom, seek learning even by study and by
faith” is a commandment given through the
Prophet Joseph Smith to his people, and so
seeking and learning by study and by faith
out of the best books the people of this
commonwealth have ever had before them
the highest ideals of literary work.
	Carlyle says—“The writer of a book, is not
he a preacher, preaching not to this parish
or that, on this day or that but to all men,
in all times and places. * * * * Men
of letters are a perpetual priesthood from
age to age teaching all men that a God is
still present in their life. * * * * The
true literary man is the light of the world,
the world’s priest; guiding it like a sacred
pillar of fire in its dark pilgrimage through
the waste of time.” From the time when
the boy prophet brought forth from the Hill
Cumorah and gave to the world, that great-
est and most powerful of books—the Book


[Column 1]
of Mormon,—the Latter-day Saint people
have been building a literature better in ori-
ginality and inspiration of thought, than any
other people. What had we, when sixty-one
years ago, our fathers and mothers entered
this valley, in a literary way? Principally per-
sonal diaries and a Hymn Book. Oh, what
a Hymn Book! It contains some of the
grandest themes, words most prophetic, doc-
trines most profound, mingled with a senti-
ment so sweet, so pure, so full of faith and
hope all in perfect rhyme and rhythm as can
not be found between the covers of any other
song book in the world.
	It has always been the custom of the Latter-
day Saints as soon as they became settled
in a town capacity to establish a newspaper
and in less than three years after reaching
these valleys, the Deseret News was estab-
lished, a weekly periodical with Willard
Richards as editor. Through its columns
those who had literary talents were invited
to express themselves; it has always been the
organ of the Church and soon became a
daily paper. It had for editors, always, men
of literary ability and renown among the
people and has ever held a high place in the
ranks of journalism as an organ of good, up-
right principles.
	Of books the pioneers possessed but few
having to use the space in their conveyances
for the necessaries of life; what few these
were, however, were of the choicest, but
what matter, so long as among the people
if there were not books there were men and
women who were the makers of books.
	Early in the fifties a literary society called
the Polysophical Society was organized by
Lorenzo Snow. The meetings were held
twice a week and were much enjoyed. The
object of the association was the cultivation
of the mind and manners in a social and
literary way. Is it not remarkable that in
a western desert, among a poor and driven
people should originate and thrive a literary
association of which the favored east, even
Boston herself, with her culture and refine-
ment might be proud to day? Also so far as
present research can show it was the first
literary club in the United States. Among
the members may be mentioned the founder
—Lorenzo Snow and his gifted sister Eliza
R. Snow, Brigham Young, the poets Henry
W. Naisbitt, W. G. Mills, John Lyon, W. W.
Phelps, Hannah T. King and Hannah Cor-
naby.
	Probably the pioneer writer deserving first
mention is the author of that wonderful mis-
sionary work—“The Voice of Warning”—
Parley P. Pratt. A young literary man in
speaking of Parley P. Pratt says—“In prose
we have only had his equal in his brother
Orson. These two men, have written, I be-
lieve, all the philosophy on which Mormon
literature is founded.” Parley P. Pratt lived
scarce fifty years but in that short period of
time he performed a work so magnificent as
a missionary, a legislator, a journalist, a
writer, and a man of God as to leave his
name among the immortals. “The Voice of
Warning” was first published in 1838, has
passed through numerous editions, been
translated in almost every modern language
and is still doing its great work among the
people and the nations though its author has
long since passed away.
	The Key to Theology, another of our
standard church works, has been a great help
to the missionary, a guide to the teacher and
student of religious literature and an inspi-
ration to the expounder of our faith. In
1840, Parley P. Pratt brought out the first
number of the first volume of that glorious

[Column 2]
little periodical The Millennial Star, in the
city of Manchester, England, on the cover of
which appeared the beautiful hymn “The
morning breaks, the shadows flee,” written
by him expressly for that purpose and oc-
casion and which has ever since been the
first hymn in the Latter-day Saints Hymn
Book. Besides the numerous newspaper ar-
ticles and letters written by him, Parley P.
Pratt wrote forty-six of the choicest hymns
sung by the Latter-day Saints. On his fif-
tieth birthday while on a mission in the east
and just a month before his death, he wrote
a poem called “My Fiftieth Year” which in
a most concise and musical way tells some-
thing of his life and work. One verse reads
like this:

I have wandered far, I have wandered wide,
From Maine to the wild Missouri’s tide;
And over the Atlantic’s sea girt isles
Full many a weary thousand miles.
I have trampled the desert’s burning sands
And the snow-clad mountains of unknown lands.
Mid the crystal waters of Deseret
I have pulled the oar and cast the net;
I have climbed the steeps with the golden ore,
And roamed o’er the lone Pacific shore;
I have ploughed its bosom many a day
To visit the nations far away;
I have stood on Chili’s distant shore,
Where the Polar star is seen no more;
I have gazed on the Andes heights of snow
And roamed mid the flowery plains below.
I have toiled with the great in freedom’s cause,
And assisted to give a state its laws.
I have lain in a dungeon bound in chains
And been honored in courts where justice reigns
In a thousand joys and a thousand fears
I have struggled on through my fifty years.

	This poem, probably the last he ever
wrote, was like the summing up of his life’s
work and in it he expresses a weariness of
travel and a desire to rest in his home with
his dear ones. For him the span of life was
short but his work will extend forever.
	Orson Pratt like his brother was one of the
first apostles of the Church. Both were col-
lege men and both came from old Puritan
stock. They accepted the gospel in its ful-
ness and were ardent and faithful laborers
in the Church. The literary work of Orson
Pratt is more of a scientific nature and his
sermons alone would make a volume of pro-
found thought. In 1852, Orson Pratt pub-
lished a periodical in the city of Washing-
ton called “The Seer,” the two volumes of
which contain articles on the priesthood
and other doctrinal subjects. Perhaps the
most widely read of his works is The Key to
the Universe a book which learned scientists
have marveled could be produced in his
time, for it reveals things which have in
later years by the use of new improved sci-
entific instruments been discovered by the
most learned men. In 1848 he edited the
Millennial Star and was always writing and
studying and gaining knowledge for the
benefit of his people. A collection of tracts
for missionary work called Orson Pratt’s
Works is a notable volume among our
Church works. A rather unique work of
Orson Pratt’s was the transcribing and pub-
lishing of the Book of Mormon in Phonetic
characters, called the Deseret Alphabet.
Brother Orson Pratt was a man of humble
demeanor and rather inclined to diffidence
in social affairs, childlike simplicity of man-
ner but a most wonderful mind and a voice
so resonant and rich that thousands still re-
member his powerful and logical sermons
delivered in the great Tabernacle. His writ-
ings appeal more to the student than the or-
dinary reader. Orson Pratt with Erastus
Snow were the first of the pioneers to enter
this valley, riding down on the 23rd of July,
and looking over the land for the purpose of

[Column 3]
selecting a good camping place for the peo-
ple. A pioneer, a traveler, a preacher, a
scientist, a man of letters and one of the
kindest and noblest of men, such was Orson
Pratt.
	Among the choice literature of the Church
is a little volume entitled Spencer’s Letters.
It is a collection of letters explaining the
faith and doctrines of the Latter-day Saints
written by Orson Spencer to a Mr. Wil-
liam Crowel, a minister in the Baptist
church.
	Orson Spencer was a learned man, a col-
lege graduate and was himself educated for
the ministry, also the law, but having accept-
ed the gospel he gave up the prospects of the
brilliant career that seemed to await him
and laid his destiny with the Saints of God.
He died in the service of the Church while
on a mission to the States. Had he been
permitted to live longer doubtless our liter-
ature would have been much enriched from
his facile pen. He was the first chancellor
of the University of Utah and active in all
educational work among the people.
	John Taylor—apostle, poet, prophet—
throughout his long life in the Church con-
tributed largely to church literature. His let-
ters, sermons, epistles, and poems speak of
his devotion to principle, his fearlessness,
his loyalty to his people, his religion, and
his friends. The Hymn Book contains three
of his hymns, the most notable of which is
that inspiring poem The Seer, which always
calls forth the heart’s great love for Joseph
from the people in response to the telling of
his own love for him. John Taylor wrote a
very beautiful response to the poem by Par-
ley P. Pratt before quoted, on Friendship and
many other verses on the same subject to
loved friends, He edited and founded the
little periodical called the Mormon in New
York city, also founded and published in
Paris, France, a periodical called Zion’s Pa-
nier, Zion’s Banner, and made the first trans-
lation into the French and the German lang-
uages of the Book of Mormon.
	Speaking of John Taylor’s book entitled
The Government of God, Hubert H. Ban-
croft, the historian, says: “As a dissertation
on an abstract and general subject it prob-
ably has not its equal in point of ability
within the range of Mormon Literature.”
John Taylor also edited the “Nauvoo Neigh-
bor” afterwards called The Times and Sea-
sons in Nauvoo, and ever held a high place
among the literati of the Latter-day Saints.
	Of the songs written in our Hymn Book
second only to Parley P. Pratt in number,
and to no one in excellence are those
from the pen of W. W. Phelps. The most
beautiful, the most inspiring songs of
Zion are from the pen of that gifted man.
Thirty-five in number, “Redeemer of Israel”,
“Awake oh ye people,” “Come all ye sons
of Zion,” “The spirit of God like a fire is
burning,” “Earth with her ten thousand
flowers,” “Glorious things are sung of Zion”;
“Let us pray, gladly pray,” and “Praise to
the man who communed with Jehovah” and
many others fill our hearts and souls with
all the love and fervor and fire that a true poet
can call forth. Some of them are perfect epics
and he surely possessed the “divine fire.”
William G. Mills contributed two of our very
best hymns, “Arise, oh glorious Zion” and
“We’ll sing the songs of Zion.” John Lyon
wrote three well known hymns, John Jaques
five, M. A. Morton five, William Clayton two,
Edward W. Sloan five, and Charles W. Pen-
rose eight. Edward W. Sloan was also the
founder and first editor of The Salt Lake
Herald and assisted in the founding of that


[Column 1]
dear little paper—The Woman’s Exponent
—the first woman’s periodical west of the
Mississippi River.
	Its present editor Emmeline B. Wells also
claims a place among the pioneer writers of
Utah having written some fragments in the
early days for certain occasions. Her first
contribution, when quite a girl, written in
1844 and published in the Millennial Star
called “Friendship” is very touching and in
the early fifties she wrote a poem called An
Ode to Deseret in which she very beautifully
describes the wind on the desert.
	The most prominent woman in early Mor-
mon literature, however, is Eliza Roxey Snow.
She was born in Massachusetts in 1804, and
had a good literary and domestic education.
Descended from good old revolutionary an-
cestors she possessed in her character those
strong and abiding principles which mark
the saint. Even as Joan of Arc, that sweet
maid of Orleans, felt her divine calling and
accomplished her work even to her martyr-
dom and never quailed even when placed
over the burning fagots but died a true Saint,
so Eliza R. Snow from the moment of her
baptism into the new and everlasting faith
was born anew and marched through perse-
cution, poverty, sickness and heart rending
scenes to her destiny. No words so truly and
fully tell her faith in this great work as she
herself tells in the following words:

My heart is fixed I know in whom I trust
The proclamation sounded in my ear
it reached my heart—I listened to the sound
Counted the cost and laid my earthly all
Upon the altar, and with purpose fixed
Unalterably, while the spirit of Elijah’s God with-
	in my bosom reigns
Embraced the Everlasting Covenant,
And am determined now to be a Saint
And numbered with the tried and faithful ones
Whose race is measured with their life, whose joy
Is everlasting and whose happiness
Is God’s approval, and to whom ’tis more
Than meat and drink to do his righteousness.

	Before joining the Latter-day Saints Eliza
R. Snow gained some literary fame through
writing a prize story for a popular magazine.
	She was the first secretary of the Woman’s
Relief Society and prepared and preserved
the records of that organization containing
the instructions of the Prophet Joseph
Smith to the Women of Zion. She wrote
many newspaper articles and essays, also
the biography of her brother, Lorenzo Snow,
and she also wrote and published that very
interesting book of travel called The Pales-
tine Tourists. She wrote two volumes of
poetry mostly of the heroic style but the one
beautiful poem which alone would immor-
talize her name among her people is the
great doctrinal hymn called “Oh my Father”
so loved by all the Latter-day Saints.
	Perhaps the saddest, sweetest poetess we
can claim is Miss Sarah E. Carmichael. She
came to Utah when a little girl with her par-
ents from New York where she was born and
even as a school girl wrote beautiful verses,
in fact in her early life she wrote some of the
best, and most beautiful of her poems and
always proved the genius of a true poet. She
perhaps alone is the one Utah writer the
world has so far recognized.
	A little volume of her beautiful thoughts
was, published by some of her friends for
private distribution and a copy of the same
is now very rarely seen and held very pre-
cious by those who are fortunate enough to
own one. She was always a dreamer and her
last days were clouded, as Byron says “As
by a sickness of a soul.” While her poem
The Stolen Sunbeam was the one selected
by William Cullen Bryant for his collection

[Column 2]
of American poetry, some writers deem the
following poem called Dead Roses, to have
been the most beautiful. It is not in the
little volume but has been culled from some
paper in which it was printed at the time of
her death.

			DEAD ROSES.
		BY S. E. C. WILLIAMSON.
Roses, ye kissed me with lips that were brighter,
Than these that ye touched ere the yesterday 
	passed,
But now they are colder, and stiller, and whiter,
Than others that trembled awhile in life’s blast.
No matter. They weep not for blossoms that
	wither
Who bear in their bosoms the deep scar of graves
Yet any sad whisper may summon thoughts hither
That mingle our tears with Eternity’s waves.
Is there no summer land where the breath of the
	flowers
Increases in sweetness, forever and aye,
Or pass their faint sighs from this bleak world of
	ours
To thicken its vapors ot passing away?
Is there no summer world where the heart cometh
	nearer
To all that it yearns for and misses in this,
Where beauty and love are intenser and dearer
And wedded forever in widening bliss?

Roses, ye speak not—the death spell is on ye.
Ye breathe not, ye blush not, ye tremble not now;
And though to the touch of my lips I have drawn
	ye
There mute as my own stifled heart-heats ye bow;
But something too sweet to be dust on the mor-
	row
Still lingers about the pale forms that I press,
’Tis something akin both to joy and to sorrow
That clings to my soul with a passion’s caress. 
Only dead roses, yet proud brows have worn them,
With smile jewels hiding the point of each thorn;
And tender true hearts have unflinchingly borne
	them,
And veiled them with laughter to hide them from
	scorn.
Only dead roses! Yet strong spirits tremble
And bow by a breath of their sweetness oppres-
	sed;
And brave honest lips, little used to dissemble.
They hold to a lie of a truth unconfessed.

Only dead roses. Yet, who shall restore them
To summers departed and youth that is passed,
Or bring to the saddest of lives that deplore them
A hope that is sweet as the shadow they cast?
Roses—ah, poor, blighted roses!—yet sweeter
For trial that left ye so faded and changed—
Love passing the grave hath existence completer;
Affections death chastened are never estranged.
I have one changeless trust in the changing FOR-
	EVER,
There must be perfection in God’s work complete;
have dreamed of an isle in the ocean called
	NEVER,
Where the souls of the birds and the blossoms
	shall meet;
I have dreamed of a shore to the soundless
	DEATH RIVER
Where love proves its moral of NEVER IN VAIN;
Where ’tis not the cross, but the crown of the
	giver
And the dead roses gather their incense again.

	Mrs. Hannah T. King also claims a place
among pioneer writers though most of her
published writings were of a later period.
She wrote some poems for the Polysophical
Society and contributed largely to Utah
literature in some fine prose writings; also
the dearly lamented Emily H. Woodmansee
gave in her young womanhood some poems
and writings and our Hymn Book contains
six of her songs—these however are of a late
date.
	There are others too who gave some frag-
ments of song or story to early literature in
Utah, and Utah’s literary fame will spread
throughout the world and the nations will
yet sing her praise.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


The incoming President of the United
States, like the outgoing President, is in
favor of the ballot for women.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
		SNOWFLAKE STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the Snow-
flake Stake convened at Snowflake, August
14, 1908.
	All the members of the Stake Board and
also those of the St. Johns Stake. It is the
first time our missionaries have been ap-
pointed outside of the General Board, and
though the idea was new it was none the less
acceptable to us.
	Sister Ella S. Udall’s remarks led us back
to the “days of long ago.” She spoke of the
many changes that had taken place since
her visit here twenty-five years ago and the
friendship “that used to exist between our
stakes.” Though we have had many ups
and downs we have been greatly blessed in
this land. It has certainly been a school of
experience for us.
	The Relief Society develops, makes us
broad and aids in every way. It is “a most
beautiful organization.” She also gave a
very complete report of the General Relief
Society Conference held in Salt Lake City.
	Sister Emma Patterson spoke of the duties
of Relief Society members and tenderly re-
ferred to some of her old acquaintances and
expressed pleasure in again meeting with
them.
	Miss Mary Ellsworth gave an interesting
account of her work in the Nurse Class. She
was successful in the examination before the
State Board of Utah and we are glad to have
her added to our small number of nurses.
	Sister Mary E. B. Farr spoke of being de-
pendent on the Lord for all things and not
speaking disrespectfully of the authorities.
“We can do more against them in one min-
ute than we can undo in a week.” Also
spoke of the talents God has given us and
the use we should make of them.
	Sister Nona Gibbons referred to some of
the predictions made by local brethren, how
they have been fulfilled and our ability to
serve God wherever we are.
	Sister May H. Larson read an article on
the experiences of Sister Mary A. Ellsworth
in the handcart company and a blessing that
Patriarch John Reidhead had given to the
Relief Society.
	Sister Mary A. Standiford related several
incidents of her journey across the plains
with the handcarts.
	Brother W. W. Willis gave an account of
his parents journey to Salt Lake City in
1847.
	President Mary J. R. West reported our
Stake as doing fairly well, still in some of
the wards there seems to be a lethargy.
	Said she was very much pleased with the
visit of the St. Johns sisters and expressed
gratitude for the excellent conference we
have had.
	President Samuel F. Smith said he was
pleased with the sisters efforts and hoped
they would continue in well doing.
	Brother Littleton L. Perkins also spoke a
short time.
	There were several songs interspersed with
the speaking, most of which were under the
direction of Miss Jennie Kartchner. One on
Relief Society work was composed by Mrs.
Annie H. Kartchner. Another one sung by
Mrs. Mary Porter was composed especially
for the occasion by Mrs. Ethel Westover.
	We have never had visitors at a confer-
ence who were more filled with the good
spirit or possessed a greater gift of imparting
it to others so of course, we feel our confer-
ence was a decided success.
			DELLA F. SMITH, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, 1$.00 one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah,
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.	-	-	NOVEMBER, 1908.


[Column 1]
THE ELECTION OF A PRESIDENT.
“There is a tide in the affairs of men
Which taken at the flood leads on to fortune.”
	A national election is always interesting
and generally somewhat sensational. Cer-
tainly the last election has been very much
so. The writer recalls the first election
within her recollection, when William
Henry Harrison was elected President of
the United States, though she was a very
little girl; it was what might be termed an
illustrated campaign, or even spectacular, for
such it really was.
	To the children it was exceedingly pictur-
esque. Those who witnessed the street
parades and the pageantries can never for-
get them; log cabins on wheels, imitation
barrels of hard cider and all the parapher-
nalia of scenery that could be improvised to
attract the voters and excite the populace.
	Campaign songs on new subjects were
quite in vogue, and everywhere the refrain
“Tippecanoe and Tyler too” was echoed by
the children as familiarly as “Yankee
Doodle.” There was a bitter tirade against
Van Buren, and we children thought he
must be a monster.
	Such campaigns are more or less demor-
alizing, and nowadays, after half a century
or more of the rapid progress of civilization
of which people boast so much, there ought
not to be such bitterness and strife between
the opposing parties, as there seems to be
whenever a national election is in progress.
	People come to their sober senses after-
wards, but one hears more or less of frauds
and deceptions until the inauguration of the
President takes place, and then politicians
are busy watching party maneuvers.
With vigilant eyes, ever watching the foes,
Who are prowling around them and aiming their
	blows.”
	The campaign in Utah has been an excit-
ing one for other reasons than the two
parties would make it, and women have per-
haps been more active than ever hereto-
fore, there certainly seemed to be much at
stake, that would naturally arouse women,
especially mothers of families to feel it was
time for them to show their colors and to
stand for liberty; and having equal suffrage
why not use it and make it a power for
freedom. There was an incentive to be up
and doing and the women of Utah rose to
the occasion valiantly.
	Even women who are indifferent to the
ballot, and rather careless about voting,
were anxious to exercise their privileges and
to use their influence where it would be

[Column 2]
effective for the best interests of the com-
monwealth. Very little, if any ill-will or
party-feeling was apparent among the
women voters, they were loyal to the heart’s
core.
	In a very pronounced way this election
has been educational politically. Women
who had taken little interest in public affairs
or questions have been reading the litera-
ture distributed and have been enlightened
on national issues. It is as much the duty
of women to comprehend the matters of
government as men, for they are the teach-
ers of men, at least, while they are boys,
not only in the home at the fireside, but
thousands of women in the public schools.
Women who travel nowadays get enlight-
ened on certain subjects when they attempt
to bring home expensive articles from other
countries, and find themselves out of pocket
or involved in litigation.
	However now that civil government is
taught in the schools and studied in wom-
en’s clubs the country over, there is little ex-
cuse for ignorance on matters of grave
importance. The women of at least most
of the states have had suffrage campaigns
that have reached the homes remote from
the great cities and so much literature has
been distributed, that it would seem women
everywhere are posted on the great ques-
tions of the day in both parties. And it is
quite noticeable that women generally are
not as partisan as men are. The great suf-
frage teachers have inculcated in their
teachings the principle of tolerance in this
respect and it has been one of the helpful
influences in the suffrage organizations
throughout the world wherever women are
making efforts for enfranchisement.
	With the wide popularity of Mr. Bryan,
who is really so mnch better known than
Mr. Taft, it is strange that so few votes were
cast for him. That it was really a Repub-
lican victory there is no denying. It cannot
be attributed to the man, as it wculd prob-
ably have been if Theodore Roosevelt had
consented to the clamor of the party lead-
ers and allowed his name to appear for a
third term. Mr. Bryan has certainly proven
himself a generous gentleman in facing the
results of the situation so gracefully and
nobly as he has done; and has won for him-
self the honor and admiration of the people
in meeting his defeat heroically. “A great
man struggling in the arms of fate.”
	Woman suffrage is still a novelty even in
the states where they have voted for years,
and when a national election is on there is
more or less agitation, especially if women
are asking for any privileges. Miss Susan
B. Anthony said many years ago, “men will
be very unwilling to give women places of
emolument or trust,” and her words have
been verified in most instances, except
where the salaries were very small; it is a
pity that it is true; here and there a few
men are generous and broad-minded and
even helpful in the election of women.
Notably in Utah this year one thinks so,
but out of all the women in the state only
two, one in each party, were nominated to
be voted for to fill positions. Of course
men think women should be very grateful
to them if they get anything in the
way of office with a salary attached.
	In the recent election women were very
much in evidence, and were enthusiastic or
quite, as much so as men, if they did not
make as much noise at public gatherings, or
sing campaign songs. However, there are
many subjects in legislative work that

[Column 3]
women could and do understand quite as
well as men, and it is the ardent hope of a
large number of Utah women, that the time
will come ere long, that women may have a
place in public affairs that will give them an
opportunity to help make and enforce laws
that will be for the promotion of the welfare
of all concerned.
	We can, however with all propriety, con-
gratulate ourselves here in Utah on the suc-
cess of the election, and hope and believe
that the future of this dear commonwealth
will be in safe hands, and the best interests
of the people not be jeopardized by schem-
ing and designing men.
	The pioneers who made the country habi- 
table cannot possibly be considered usurp-
ers; they have known what it was to sweat
and toil and face all sorts of dangers and
difficulties, and their sons and daughters
and those who came here to remain, who
believe in justice and equality, should also
help to
	“Uphold the right though fierce the fight,
	And powerful the foe,” etc.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	There are so many important happenings
in the world today, that it seems very es-
sential we should have means sufficient to
admit of publishing our little paper more
regular, and it is necessary in order to do
this to secure more subscribers and that
they should pay down. We are now offer-
ing an inducement that we hope may be
successful in this regard. It is the picture
of Lucy Smith, mother of the Prophet
Joseph Smith, which is declared by those
who knew her intimately to be a very good
likeness, offered to any new subscriber and
to any of those now taking the paper who
will pay up and prepay for one year ahead.
Also any of those who have discontinued
the paper if they will renew subscription.
To all agents everywhere the same terms
as formerly, including the picture, and we
feel the Woman’s Exponent, that has done
so much for the women of the Latter-day
Saints is deserving of their continued pat-
ronage. In the Relief Society, in all the
wards and stakes of Zion it is indispens-
able.

	The Eglishwoman’s Review has now
been published half a century, and its edi-
tor says in the October number of this year
that
	“Any chronicle of the history of the
‘Review’ would be equivalent to writing that
of the whole woman’s movement, of which
it is itself the principal register.	*	*	*
Or the whole story of the Parliamentary
vote for women on the like terms as it is
granted to men. Each of these would fill
many volumes, and the volumes have been
written in plenty, but one may certainly say
that all through the rise and progress of the
various movements, the Englishwoman’s
Review has been the one contemporary and
living chronicle of their history in the mak-
ing of its “Annual Register,” in fact as the
work of Edmund Burke was the political
history of his day. It bears, we may say,
the same relation to the woman’s movement
that medieval work as the Anglo Saxon
Chronicle, Matthew’s Paris, William of
Worcester and Gregory have to the events of
their own time, and is worthy to be serious-
ly regard in times to come as the firsthand
and practically original source of informa-
tion on its special subjects.”


This is only an extract from the leading
article in the October number of the present
year. What the editor of the “Review” has
said of that paper we can truthfully affirm
regarding the Woman’s Exponent as a
chronicle of the woman’s movement along
many lines in the west. Therefore we
earnestly beseech the women of our people
to use their best efforts to maintain their
own paper.


And the divine ministering Christmas
angels softly breathed upon the aged brows
of both toiling human angels, for God was
indeed over them all!”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	MINISTERING CHRISTMAS ANGELS.
		SUSA YOUNG GATES.
	The usual subdued buzz of conversation
in the teacher’s meeting at the Relief Soci-
ety hall; was greatly augmented that day by
the heap of Christmas parcels which quite
hid the placid president of the Society, as
they were piled in various attractive looking
bundles on the table before her. She stood
up to say:
	Sisters, our friends have been very gen-
erous, this holiday season, and a great bless-
ing, for we have seldom had so many poor
and sick among us who need our help. We
will dismiss our meeting early, to permit
you to begin your distributing this after-
noon, and if there is any special case of
want or distress call upon us for nurses
or what may be needed. We will ask the
sisters appointed for this block to take this
money to the widow in the row, for her
medicine and doctor bills.”
	Two white-haired women approached the
table and added the money to their other
parcels.
	A benediction was spoken, then the dozen
women dispersed with cheery salutations,
and the two block sisters took the heavy
basket between them and turned down a
side street. Both were white-haired, slen-
der and small. Both wore quaint and
charming old-style English bonnets upon
their snowy locks with the infinite grace of
English ladies. Both were widows and
both had passed through three score and
ten years.
	Halting at a shabby cottage door, they
entered in response to an invitation from a
childish voice, a small, but comparatively
clean room.
	“Is your mother out today?” inquired
Mrs. Forsberry.
	“Yes, she got a chance to clean some
offices, and she thinks now she can take
care of us all.”
	The cripple child who spoke with the soft
roundness of the South in her tones, lifted
a thin hand to offer greetings to the teach-
ers, while her eyes shone as they deposited
a half dozen parcels on the table.
	“Mother is sure grateful to you for all
your kindness to us all since we came from
Florida. Allie, don’t touch the things. Jim,
you better let those strings alone.”
	But the two half starved children greedily
tore open some of the parcels of goodies de-
signed for Christmas stockings and filled
hands and mouths with raisins, content
with present prosperity and quite willing to
make this serious draft upon future culi-
nary possibilities. The little cripple’s mild
suggestions for proper deportment fell on
hungry, heedless ears. What were Relief
Society “teachers” and “manners” to
yearning cavities in a boy’s anatomy?
	As the two little ladies withdrew, the
elder one said softly:
	“I’ll get my Emma to make a good batch
of bread and take over to those hungry
children. Did you see those scraps of

[Column 2]
heavy, sour bread on their table? It makes
me feel half wicked to see folks so destitute
in this land of plenty.”
	“Most of us work for all we get, dear
friend, and God is over all.”
	With which piece of world-wide spiritual
philosophy, the good souls picked up their
baskets and proceeded on their way,
	It was a weary way they trod. But
they murmured not. They knew they were
only two of six thousand like themselves,
who were facing the storms of winter
that bitter Christmas Eve to bring
comfort to the poor and needy. Now it
was a house filled with the somber clouds of
death and poverty. Again it was aged inval-
dism, united to shiftless youth. Then
sickness claimed the working head of a
struggling household, and the temporary re-
lief was like the broken rift in a leaden sky,
cut by the Bun in his brilliant and hope-
giving path. Next laziness and ill-luck
made havoc with helpless children, but
these must not be forgotten. And every
where the tender ministrations of the two
white-souled human angels brought an at-
mosphere of peace and encouragement.
They chided not, neither did they judge.
They just loved and helped.
	When they peached the widow in the row
of tiny tenement houses built in a lane,
they were very tired. But the look of su-
preme gratitude on the flushed face of the
fever-stricken woman on the scanty bed
brightened the tired faces of the visitors.
When the money was laid in the hand of
the youthful lad who was his mother’s only
help and attendant, there was a pean of
homely gratitude to God and his minister-
ing daughters uttered by both mother and
son, which transported the little old ladies
into that region where only the benevolent
can enter.
	Could you put your hands upon my
head before you go, and ask God to heal
me?” asked the sick woman. “It seems
like you sisters’ prayers would reach heaven
right quick.”
	And the two visitors knelt and prayed
with touching simplicity that those shining
ones who had accompanied them filled the
whole room with their own divine radiance.
	Once more on the sidewalk, both flooded
with the benediction of the grateful peace
they had just quitted in the dingy room of
the row they spoke not for a few moments.
Then,
	“We know in whom we trust,” said the
younger woman. “How good He is to us
all!”
	“Yes,” murmured her companion, “God
is over all!”
	And then they parted, one to go to her
daughter’s noisy mansion, filled with the
confused happiness of children and comfort,
the other to enter the tiny portal of her one-
roomed home, where she dwelt alone with
her own chastened heart and the angels.
And the one whispered to herself as she
entered the plate glass door of her daugh-
ter’s home,
	“How good the Lord is to me. I have my
home in the halls of plenty and peace, sur-
rounded by loving hearts and happy chil-
dren. Surely God is over all!”
	And the other, as she stood on the sag-
ging porch of her home, unfastening the
rude lock of her poor little door, murmured,
	“How good the Lord is to me! I have
the dear quiet of unbroken silence with
which to bathe my tired spirit. And I have
to thank no one for my crust and my bed.
Surely God is over all!”


TWENTY NINTH ANNIVERSARY.
	It is seldom in the history of a woman’s
organization that the same officers all re-
main in so many years.
	The minutes of the meeting of the 29th
anniversary of the 12th ward Relief Society
held July 14, 1908. President Julia Druce
presiding. Commenced by singing “Guide
Us Oh Thou Great Jehovah.” Prayer by
Bishop F. B. Platt. Singing “Oh Ye Moun-
tains High.”
	Minutes of last annual meeting read and
approved. Counselor Jemima Midgley gave
an address of welcome to all present. Miss
Doret Evans gave a piano selection. Miss
Clare Williams sang a song entitled “Oh
Love Divine.” Mrs. Margaret Romney gave
a brief account of her trip to Honolulu.
Mrs. Ethel Druce Leaver sang a boIo. Mrs.
Emma Derrick gave an interesting reading.
The 12th ward quartette gave a selection.
Miss Winnefred Tibbetts gave a select read-
ing.
	An address on Relief Society work was
given by Mrs. Annie K. Hardy also she read
the minutes of the meeting of the organiza-
tion of the Society 29 years ago when the
present officers were appointed and they
have served ever since.
	Miss Elma Young then sang a song and
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith addressed the
meeting said she was present at the meeting
when Joseph Smith the Prophet organized
the first Relief Society, March 17, 1842. She
knew that he was inspired of God; she urged
the young sisters to join this society; knew
the sisters were blessed in doing their duty.
She enjoyed working in the Temple, she
spent the greater part, of her time in the
Temple, she also enjoyed Relief Society work.
	Mrs. Xenia Druce Schroder gave a piano
selection.
	Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells addressed the
sisters; told of the benefits and blessings
derived rrom the Relief Society work and the
magnificent work in the Temples; explained
the wide field of effort and endeavor for all
wonaen in modern times.
	President Richard Young, Doctor Sey-
mour B. Young, Ex-Bishop H. B. Clawson,
Ex-Bishop T. A. Williams, each spoke en-
couraging words to the sisters and applauded
their good works in the past and the promis-
ing prospects for future labors.
	An announcement was made of the Relief
Society excursion to Wandamere the day to
be the 21st of July, 1908. Closing hymn
Doxology. Benediction, Brother Joshua
Midgley.
	Supper was served at 6:30 p. m. to all
present and a most delightful occasion it
was.
			AMELIA WARDROP,
						Secretary.


“The Pioneer Mother.” Mrs. Irving Moul-
ton presided recently at a meeting in San
Francisco, called by Mrs. Philip Verrill
Mighels, to consider the erection of a statue
to the pioneer mother, not only of California,
but of all lands.
	Miss Margaret Smith, B.A., is a candidate
for the City Council of Birmingham, Eng-
land. Women were made eligible last year.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
			LIBERTY STAKE.
	The semi-annual conference of the Liberty
Stake Relief Society was held in the 9th
ward meetinghouse Thursday, June 25, 1908.
President Anna S. Musser presiding.
	We had with us Sister Annie W. Cannon
and Elizabeth S. Wilcox of the general board,
also Sister Maria Y. Dougal of the Y. L. M.
I. A.
	The soloists at the morning session were
Miss Brain and Sister Eva James.
	After the opening exercises, and address
of welcome by President Musser, Counselor
Mary E. Hodgson presented the names of
the general and stake officers who were un-
animously sustained.
	The Statistical and the Financial report
was read and accepted, and the Presidents
of the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 8th and Liberty wards
each reported her respective society to be
in a flourishing and prosperous condition.
	Sister Maria Y. Dougal read a paper on
the life of Sister Zina D. H. Young, and
Sister Annie W. Cannon spoke to the sisters
for a short time.
	Adjourned until 2 o’clock.
	At the afternoon session, Mr. Brain favor-
ed us with a solo, and Sister Maude Paul
read a paper on the “The Simple Life of
Christ.”
	Sisters Wilcox, Cannon and Dougal, gave
us many good instructions, spoke words of
comfort and good cheer, also gave instruc-
tions to the officers, teachers and missiona-
ries.
	Sister Loyd spoke for a short time to
mothers, and Sister Eva James testified to
the goodness of God to her, during the re-
cent illness of her family.
	President Musser made a few closing re-
marks, thanking all who had helped to make
our conference a success, speaking words of
love and comfort to all present, and giving
instructions to missionaries and teachers.
	After the closing exercises, conference ad-
journed for six months.
				LIZZIE ROBBINS,
						Secretary.
			UNION STAKE.
	Conference of the Relief Society of Union
Stake, held July 19, 1908, President Mary
Schofield presiding. After singing, and
prayer by Brother J. R. Price, singing and
other opening exercises, reports of different
wards were given.
	Sister Rebecca Nibley, of the General
Board, said that every family should have
at least one representative in the Relief
Society to work for the advancement and
betterment of the people.
	Sister Annie Wells Cannon, of the General
Board, said we were certainly blessed to see
and hear the president of the Church and
some of the twelve apostles. The calling of
a Relief Society teacher is the noblest call-
ing a woman can have. The storing of grain
is not a fad but the commandment of a
prophet of God.
	The names of the General and Stake
officers were then presented and sustained.
After singing and benediction by Brother F.
S. Bramwell, conference adjourned until
evening.
	Evening Session.—After singing and
prayer a recitation was given by Sister Eva
Rosenbaum.
	Sister Annie W. Cannon said she was
pleased to see so many young people out to
the meeting. Spoke of the kind of liter-

[Column 2]
ature mothers should allow their children to
read.
	Sister Nibley said parents should set the
example of keeping the Word of Wisdom
before their children.
	President Bramwell spoke of the duties
of the teachers. They should be energetic
and act as guardians of the people.
	Brother George Stoddard endorsed what
had been said during the conference. The
Relief Society was doing a great work.
Every one has a mission on this earth; not
only to save themselves but others.
	Sister Helen Geddes then sang “Daugh-
ters of Zion,” written by Sister Annie W.
Cannon.
	President Mary Schofield said the various
wards had responded generously when called
on for their allotment of the fund on March
17. Said she appreciated the privilege of
holding the conference on Sunday.
	After singing and benediction by Sister
Mary L. Ransom, conference adjourned.
			ETHEL BEAN Ass’t Sec.
		MILLARD STAKE.
	Minutes of Relief Society Conference of
Millard Stake held at Fillmore, July 31,
1908. President I. E. Robison presiding.
	After the usual opening exercises President
I. E. Robison was pleased to see so many in
attendance, hoped we would not feel disap-
pointed because President Hinckley and the
visiting brethren were not present, as they
were holding meeting at Hinckley the object
being to dedicate the Relief Society Hall
that they have just completed, and to re-
organize that Relief Society.
	President Emma Watts of Kanosh, Presi-
dent Mary A. Stephenson of Holden, Presi-
dent M. E. Bushnell of Meadow, Counselor
Maggie Hatch of Scipio, President Melissa
Olsen of Fillmore and President Ann E. Ly-
man of Oak City, each gave a very good re-
port of the work they were doing laboring
for the poor and sick, preparing the dead for
burial, storing wheat, building halls and
granaries, and each one reported an improve-
ment in Society work.
	Elder Orvil Thompson of the Stake Presi-
dency said the Officers of the Relief Society
were superior women inasmuch as they were
doing a superior work, read a passage bear-
ing on Charity. There is no power for good
more potent than the influence of women,
felt the labors of the Relief Society were ap-
preciated.
	Counselor Adeline Smith had enjoyed
visiting the different branches, was thank-
ful for the experiences. A woman’s mission
is to make the home and use her influence
for the betterment of her family.
	President Isabella E. Robison spoke of the
call for more students to take the Nurse
Course, alluded to the lack of nurses who
belong to our faith, this is a calling we
should try to encourage, asked the sisters to
support the Woman’s Exponent. Said there
were over thirty thousand women enrolled
in the Relief Society in the Church.
	After singing benediction by P. T. Brun-
son.
	Relief Society adjourned until evening ses-
sion at which many good testimonies were
given and much good instruction, adjourned
for three months.
			MARINDA BENNETT,
							Secretary.
			NEBO STAKE.
	Conference of Nebo Stake Relief Society
held June 19, 1908, Spanish Fork. Presi-

[Column 3]
dent Eliza J. Dixon, presiding. Sisters
Phebe Y. Beatie and Rebecca E. Little be-
ing present as visitors from the General
Board, and all the officers of Nebo Stake
present except one. Conference commenced
by singing, etc., and usual exercises. A
few words of welcome were spoken by Sis-
ter Holt of Spanish Fork First Ward.
	Sister Eliza J. Dixon presiding. She
reported Nebo Stake in excellent condition.
Sister Sharer report Payson First Ward, Sis-
ter Potter reported Payson Second Ward.
Sister Holt reported Spanish Fork First
Ward.
	Song by Sister Anna Lewis. Sister Beatie
congratulated Nebo Stake on their good
work, also spoke of amusement for the
young, don’t shut up the parlor from the
children, but teach them to take care of
good things and throw everything nice
around them, and go with them to their
places of amusement, and go home with
them and be one of them; said our children
must get a testimony for themselves, lead
them in that influence that will help them
to gain a testimony. Be good mothers.
	Sister Bradford reported Spanish Fork
Second Ward, Sister Jones, Spanish Fork
Third Ward, Spanish Fork Fourth Ward re-
ported by Sister Swensen.
	Sister R. E. Little referred to the good re-
ports that had been given; said the oftener
we meet in conference capacity the better
we get acquainted and learn the good quali
ties of our sisters, thought mothers should
not stay at home with their children but
take them to meeting, if they do cry some-
times.
	After singing and benediction conference
adjourned until 1:30 p. m.
	Afternoon session, President Dixon pre-
siding. Singing and prayer. General and
Stake officers were presented and sustained.
A poem was then read that was written by
Annie Wells Cannon entitled “Daughters of
Zion.”
	A short talk was given by Sister Emma
Hitchinson, “Our Home and What it Should
Be.”
	Song by Sister Anna Beck entitled “Some
Time, Some Where.”
	Sister R. E. Little spoke a short time on
Relief Society work; also of a visit she had
made to Palmyra in the central part of New
York State where Joseph Smith had lived in
the 19th century, and described the place
very beautifully.
	A musical selection was rendered by Sis- 
ter Tjern Lewis, entitled “The Last Hope.”
Sister Beatie spoke on the Nurse Class work.
	Brother Swensen spoke on Relief Society
work, said “the brethren are interested in
the work as well as the sisters.” Bishop
Hales spoke of the good the Relief Society
was doing. Bishop Argyle spoke a few
words of encouragement.
	Bishop Argyle of Lake Shore spoke a short
time on the Relief Society grain.
	Bishop McKell spoke of the help the mis-
sionaries had received from the missionary
fund in the Relief Society.
	Sister Dixon made a few closing remarks
of appreciation to the people of Spanish
Fork for the splendid entertainment and
hospitality received at their hands. Con-
ference closed by singing and benediction.
				ELIZA A. HAWKINS,
						Cor. Secretary.
			UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the 46, also 2nd annual
Relief Society conference held in the Uintah
Stake tabernacle, August 4, 1908.


[Column 1]
	There were on the stand Stake Counselor
Don B. Colton, one Patriarch, several High
Councilors, and Bishops, Sisters Susan Grant
and Julia P. M. Farnsworth of the General
Board from Salt Lake City, and a good rep-
resentation of Relief Society officers of the
Stake.
	In the absence of President Sarah M.
Colton, Counselor Nancy A. Colton pre-
sided.
	After the opening exercises, Counselor
Nancy A. Colton welcomed the brethren
and sisters, also reported the Stake in good
condition, all the wards had been visited
the last quarter, she also spoke of President
Sarah M. Colton’s illness.
	Lecture by Miss Almeda Perry, entitled
“Cheerfulness.” The lecture was very
ably handled.
	Violin solo by Miss Mabel Hansen, assist-
ed by Miss Hazel Johnson.
	Report from Naples Relief Society by
Mrs. Annie Casper,
	Sister Susan Grant said she felt pleased
to meet the brethren and sisters in such a
beautiful building, had been pleased with
the reports and also the lecture, she spoke at
some length on cheerfulness she testified
of having the privilege of being acquuainted
with the Prophet Joseph Smith and what a
noble being he was, also testified of the
work that he was an instrument in the
hands of the Lord in bringing about.
	A chorus by some little girls from Maeser
led by Mrs. Merrel Colton, entitled “The
Star Spangled Banner.”
	Report by Hannah Odekirk of Vernal
Relief Society. Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth
spoke of the beautiful scenery between here
and Salt Lake City, and what a pleasure
she had in coming to visit us. Spoke of
the lecture on cheerfulness, of wbat the
early settlers had to pass through, referred
to the Mormon Batalion and their sufferings
for the Gospel’s sake. Said Romania B.
Penrose has organized 26 branches of the
Relief Society in the British Mission the
last year. She gave the number of members
as about 35,000, and the number of bushels
of grain as over 170,000.
	Mrs. Annie S. Bartlett felt to add her mite
with the rest of her brethren and sisters
referred to our yearly program. She spoke
on cheerfulness, Word of Wisdom, tithing,
and obedience.
	Cenference adjourned until 2 p. m. after
singing and benediction.
	Afternoon Session.—After the usual open-
ing exercises, sacrament was administered
while the choir sang a hymn. Then Sister
Julia P. M. Farnsworth said Sister Bath-
sheba W. Smith wished to be remembered
to all the sisters, and would like the sisters
to get the spirit of their work. She spoke
of intemperance, and of the evils that exist
from the same, such as homes being broken
up, families being made homeless, through
drink. Spoke of the education nowadays,
compared the privileges of today with those
in former days, talked of the nurse class in
Salt Lake City, said in the last year they
had given 2,000 days nursing the sick for
charitable purposes.
	Essay from Jensen Relief Society by
Lydia Wall, entitled “Social Duties in the
Home,” which was well rendered. Song
from Naples by the Glee Club, composed of
young girls. Mary J. Hards reported Glines
Relief Society. America M. Orser reported
Jensen Relief Society. Phebe Hislop re-
reported Maeser Relief Society in good con-
dition.
	Recitation by Mrs. Jean Merkley. In-

[Column 2]
strumental music from Glines ward by
Hazel Johnson.
	Sister Susan Grant thought every one had
been pleased; she had been very much edi-
fied and pleased for coming: felt to encour-
age the sisters in their Relief Society work;
she enumerated the duties of the Relief So-
ciety sisters and spoke in particular of the
teachers’ duties, referred to Nauvoo, where
the first Relief Society was organized, also to
the martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph
Smith and his brother Hyrum, she had the
privilege of seeing them after the martyr-
dom. Told of the early pioneers in Salt
Lake Valley in 1847, and the hardships they
had to pass through.
	Brother Don B. Colton thought all had
been paid for coming to conference, it made
his soul rejoice when he heard brethren and
sisters bear their testimonies that knew the
Prophet Joseph Smith, he bore his testi-
mony that he knew that Joseph Smith was
a prophet of God. Spoke at some length on
prohibition, he gave statistics of the divor-
ces and of children who had been made
homeless through drink.
	Patriarch Nelson Merkley thought we had
had a feast of good things ever since we
entered the house, said he wondered when
Sister Grant entered the Salt Lake valley if
she ever thought she would be called to
visit the different Stakes of Zion. Spoke of
the inconvenience the sisters have in getting
to meeting where they live in such a scat-
tered condition.
	Counselor Nancy A. Colton thanked
all who had helped in our Confer-
ence. Spoke of the young sisters be-
longing to the Relief Society, we should
teach our children that the Relief Society is
the mother of all other woman’s organiza-
tiyns.
	Annual Conference adjourned for one year
after singing and benediction.
			PHEBE A. MERKLEY, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Hill Maughan, wife of the late
Bishop William H. Maughan, died at her home in
Wellsville, on October 3, 1908, after an illness of
about a year. She was born February 14, 1838,
in Upper Toronto, Canada. She immigrated to
Utah in 1852, and came to Wellsvile in 1856, where
she has resided ever since. She endured all the
hardships of pioneer life, she was the mother of
ten children, nine of whom survive her,, six sons
and three daughters, also fifty-four grandchildren
and seven great grandchildren.
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT,
	Whereas our Father in heaven has in his infi-
nite wisdom removed from among us our worthy
and dearly loved sister, and
	Whereas the long and intimate relation with her
in the faithful discharge of her duty as a counsel-
or in the Society makes it fitting that we record our
appreciation. Wherefore
	Resolved that the wisdom and ability which she
exercised in our midst by service and counsel
will he held in grateful remembrance.
	Resolved that we sincerely mourn her depar-
ture from us, but appreciate her past faithful
labors and know that she has gone to receive the
reward for labors well performed. She held the
position of first counselor to Sister Elizabeth Sal-
isbury for the period of 18 years in the Wellsville
Relief Society, which duty she performed in an
energetic and exemplary manner and won the
love and respect of those with whom she associ-
ated in that capacity. 
	Resolved that we place these resolutions on our
records, present a copy to the family, and also
send one to the Woman’s Exponent for publica-
tion.
	Sarah A. Parker, Pres.; Elizabeth Salisbury,
Elizabeth Owens, Jerusha B. Maughan, Agnes
Allan, Mary J. Parker, Sec.


BIRTHDAY PARTY.
	The members of the South Relief Society
of the West Weber Ward, North Weber Stake
of Zion, gave a very pleasant surprise party
on their president Sister Sarah Hunter on
her seventieth birthday, November 9, 1908.
The party gathered at her home at 11:30 p.
m. and at 12 o’clock some thirty brethren
and sisters were seated at a beautiful table
spread with the most delicious bounties of
life provided by the members of the Society.
The afternoon was spent in singing, speak-
ing by the brethren, comic readings, and
phonograph music; after which supper was
served before going home. The party was
in every way a success and a merry day was
spent.
				EMILY ISAACSON.


PORTLAND RELIEF SOCIETY.
	In the latter part of last July Sisters Em
ma Holling, President, and Sadie M. Pratt
and Elsie A. Jorgensen, Counselors, of the
Portland Relief Society tendered their resig-
nations which were accepted by unanimous
vote of the Branch.
	On the 26th of July the Society was reor-
ganized under the direction of the Portland
Branch Presidency as follows: President
Sadie M. Pratt, 1st Counselor Petrine Wes-
tergard, 2nd Counselor Ada Nibley, Secretary
Ida Day, Ass’t Secretary Xemina Holling,
Treasurer Agnes Nibley. These sisters were
unanimously sustained by vote, and they
were set apart the same day for their labors.
	Since the reorganization was affected
there have been ten sisters called to act as
teachers and are doing a work which is
astonishing in its results. The names of
these teachers are: Ida Becker, Elsie A. Jor-
gensen, Millie Hardy, Helen Davenport,
Janie White, Rose Palmer, Amelia Kimball,
Annie Hurl, Hilma Pratt, Annie C. Olsen.
	On the first Monday in every month we
hold an officers and teachers meeting to hear
the reports of teachers, to counsel together
and receive instruction. On the first Thurs-
day in each month we have a testimony
meeting which is preceded by a short lecture
on “Mother’s Work.” On the second Thurs-
day in each month we have a working meet-
ing and on the third Thursday a meeting for
lectures and questions on the Book of Mor-
mon.
	We have an enrollment of members num-
bering 39 with an average attendance of 14,
and our meetings are often very interesting.
There are six subscribers to the “Woman’s
Exponent” among our members, and they
prize the Journal very highly.
	Hoping you and the sisters at the head
will some times remember us and that we
may hear from you occasionally, we sub-
scribe ourselves,
	Sincerely and Respectfully
	Your Sisters in the Cause of Truth,
		SADIE M. PRATT, President,
		IDA DAY, Secretary.


We have received recently news of the
passing away of John W. Hutchinson of
Lynn, Mass., the last survivor of the famous
Hutchinson family of singers, whose voices
were for so many years a power in behalf of
anti-slavery, temperance, woman suffrage
and other reforms; also of the death of Miss
Mary F. Eastman, in past years one of the
most witty, logical and effective speakers in
Massachusetts for woman suffrage.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]		
		NATIONAL OCUNCIL OF WOMEN.
	The National Council of Women will hold
its Seventh Annual Executive Meeting, be-
ginning November 15th, 1908, at Union
City, Indiana; the invitation from the Local
Council of Union City, Indiana, having been
accepted. The business meetings will be
held in the Christian Church, corner of Oak
and Plum Streets. It is expected that a
platform meeting will be held either in the
Opera House or at the Church Sunday after-
noon, when addresses will be give by various
speakers.
	The Branham and Murray Hotels are the
best in the city. Rates have been secured
as follows: Branham Hotel, $2.00 per day;
Hotel Murray, $1.00 per day.
	Arrangements have been made by the
members of the Union City Local Council
to entertain those of the delegates who pre-
fer entertainment in private homes. Please
correspond with Mrs. Mabel R. Keltuer, 623
Pearl Street, Union City, Indiana, in regard
to entertainment in the homes. For enter-
tainment in hotels, correspond direct with
the manager of the hotel.
	In the absence of Mrs. Kate Waller Bar-
rett, Chairman of the Program Committee,
and Mis. M. Josie Nelson, Treasurer, who
has charge of the general arrangements in
Union City, Indiana, the officers of affiliated
societies are requested to confer with Mrs.
Lillian M. Hollister, Correspoding Secretary,
317, Kirby Avenue West, Detroit, Michigan,
at once in regard to their appointees, also
to nominate such speakers as they desire to
have on the program. Suggestions as to
subjects for discussion on the program will
be gladly welcomed. A speedy reply is soli-
cited as the time is limited.
	Each society of National Scope affiliated
with the National Council of Women is en-
titled to two delegates in addition to their
President; State Councils are entitled to one
delegate besides the President; Local Coun-
cils are entitled to Presidents only. The
Chairman of all standing committees or their
proxy are also eligible to attend all sessions
of the Council, with all the privileges of a
delegate, including a vote.
	Each affiliated society is requested to for-
ward immediately to the Corresponding
Secretary, Mrs. Lillian M. Hollister, a com-
plete list of its delegation for the Official
Roster.
	It is desired that we shall have a full re-
presentation from our various societies, as
at this meeting the delegates to the quin-
quennial to be held in Toronto, Ontario,
June, 1909, will be elected. We also expect
to hear the report of the special meeting of
the International Council recently held at
Geneva, which I am sure will be of great
interest to all.
	Mrs. Mary Wood Swift, Pres.;
	Mrs. Kate Waller Barrett, Vice-Pres.;
	Mrs. Lillian M. Hollister, Cor. Sec.;
	Mrs. Frances E. Burns, Rec. Sec.;
	Mrs. M. Josie Nelson, Treasurer.

		PRESS COMMENT.
	The seventeenth annual executive of the
National Council of Women of the United
States is one of the most important meetings
in the History of the Council, as the quin-
quennial of the International Council of
Women is to be held in Toronto, Ontario,
during the month of June, 1909, and at this
meeting delegates will be elected from the
American Council to attend the same. The
International Council of Women is a body
composed of about twenty-two countries of
which the United States is one. We feel

[Column 2]
very proud of the fact as this is the first time
the International Council has met upon this
side of the water.
	The objects and general policy of the Na-
tional Council of Women of the United Sta-
tes may be best understood, perhaps, by
quoting from the constitution adopted at the
organization.
	“We, the women of the United States
sincerely believing that the best good of our
homes and nation will be advanced by our
own greater unity of thought, sympathy and
purpose, and that an organized movement
of women will best conserve the highest
good of the family and the state, do hereby
unite ourselves in a confederation of work-
ers committed to the overthrow of all forms
of ignorance and injusiice, and to the appli-
cation of the Golden Rule to society, custom,
and law.
	“This federation shall be called the Na-
tional Council of Women in the United
States.
	“This Council is organized in the interest
of no one propaganda, and has no power
over the organizations which constitute it,
beyond that of suggestion and sympathy:
therefore, no organization voting to enter
this Council shall thereby render itself liable
to be interfered with in respect to its com-
plete organic unity, independence or manner
of work, or be committed to any principle
or method of any other organization or to
any act or utterance of the Council itself,
beyond compliance with the terms of this
constitution.”
	There are seventeen National and nine Local
Councils affiliated with the National Council
of Women of the United States, representing
over one million and five hundred thousand
women.
	The work of the National Council has
been along many and varied lines, some of
which are divorce reform, equal pay for
equal work, dress, education in citizenship,
domestic science, social peace and interna-
tional arbitration, social purity, and care for
defective and deformed children, equal stand-
ard of morals, tuberculosis, political equality
and art and literature. Each subject is in
charge of a competent standing committee
who will report the progress made at this
executive.


[Column 1]
		NOTES AND NEWS.
	The suffragists of New York City had
seven polling places open on election day,
at which women were invited to cast their
votes. Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt was among
the first to do so. In all, 1977 votes were
cast, most of them for Taft.
	Judge Lindsey of the Denver Juvenile
Court writes on “The Public Schools and
Morality,” in the Housekeeper for November.
It is one of the articles in the series, “The
Truth about the Public Schools.” Any par-
ent who is complacently sure that everything
is all right would do well to read what one
of the most noted students of child life has
to say. On the other hand, the article will
cheer those who are despondent about con-
ditions.

[Column 2]
	At the opening exercises of the law class
of the Woman’s Legal Education Society at
the University of the City of New York, No-
vember 2, before a large gathering of women,
Chancellor McCracken prefaced his address
by reading from an article against suffrage,
written by Mrs. Humphry Ward to an Ameri-
can magazine, advocating political work by
women in local matters, and condemning
them for desiring the imperial franchise.
Taking this as his text, without endorsement
or repudiation, the Chancellor said: “The
principal need of the hour is information as
to how far the suffrage has been extended
to women, and its results in municipal bet-
terment. What high positions of responsi-
bility has it given to women? Where should
women be placed, and what are their duties
in civic action?” He added: “In a city like
ours, full of institutions and hospitals for
women and children, it is a crying shame
that no woman in authority is on the Health
Board Commission, none on the Board of
Education, etc.” He advised the Woman’s
Law Class to make a special study of the
legal aspect of the subject, and to compile
the laws and statutes so as to make a text
book of information.

		ESSAY ON PRAYER.
	“Prayer is the soul’s sincere desire.” Joseph
Smith the Prophet was desirous of becom-
ing a church member but did not like the
contention that then existed among the dif-
ferent churches, and it was through prayer
that He gained a light and knowledge of this
dispensation. Christ was desirous of doing
the will of His Father, and He realized the
fearful ordeal that was in store for Him.
He went apart from His disciples, the third
time, praying most fervently that the Father
would let the cup pass by, and His sweat
was as it were great drops of blood falling,
to the ground, but He said: “Not my will
but thine be done.” An angel appeared
from heaven to strengthen and comfort
Him; He found His disciples sleeping for
sorrow, He said unto them, “Arise and pray
that ye enter not into temptation.” He
knew that it was their hour, and an hour of
darkness, he prayed for Peter that his faith
would not fail him and that he would be a
strength to His disciples and brethren.
	The inspiration that comes to us after
prayer is what demands our utmost atten-
tion, put it into practice and work for what
we pray for, faith and works go together,
prayer will strengthen our faith, a practical
people is what we are striving to become.
	Faith and works are two hands clasped
in prayer. Before Christ appointed His
disciples He went out into the mountain
and continued all night in prayer, and that
shows there is more need of diligent action
in every time of need.
					RINTA SNOW.


The articles entitled The Sabbath Day,
also Alpine Stake Report, Women of the
19th Century, Burial Customs in England,
and Daffodils left over for want of space.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
						67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY		LADIES’ READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS	TRY US
					OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.


<Holloday P. A. Mary Cowley>

								WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 37.					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY, 1909.						No. 5.


CONTENTS.
									PAGE
Stake Presidents of Relief Society....................
	.................................Annie Wells Cannon	33
A Party and Banquet.............Eliza Buckwalter	34
Obituary and Resolutions of Respect...............	34
Resolutions.......................................................	35
In Memoriam of Maria Wealthy Richards
	Wilcox...........................................E.B.W.	35
Ideal. A Dream..............................Louisa Gray	36
Relief Society Stake Reports: Emery—Liberty
	—Nebo—Oneida—North Weber.............	37
Women of the Nineteenth Century...................
	.....................................Sarepta E. Cowles	38
Keep the Sabbath Day Holy.............................
	..................................Caroline C. R.Wells	39
Lavender....................................Ethel Webling	40
Notes and News...............................................	40
Editorial:—The New Year, 1909.....................	36
Poetry:—A Stradivarius Violin........................
	.......................................May Riley Smith	33
	Daffodils..........................Martha T. Tyler	33
	Good Night...........................Ruth M. Fox	35


A STRADIVARIUS VIOLIN.
The music of this ancient violin
	Is haunted as men’s chambers sometimes are.
	Along the liquid ladder of each bar
Phantoms of pleasure dance; regret steals in,
With happier ghosts, and Fate her wheel doth
		spin,
	Torn butterflies of hope a breath did mar
	Here flutter, like a flame within a star.
And if thou wouldst, O soul, nepenthe win,
	Pause not beside this portal, lest thou hear
	The voice of thy dead sorrow whispering near!
For every passion that thy life hath known—
Anguish benumbed, and love thou thought’st
		flown—
	Among these peerless octaves veiled, wait
	To speak to thee across the stringed gate.
					MAY RILEY SMITH.


DAFFODILS.
What marvel that dear Wordsworth sings
	The glory of the daffodils?
I’ve found them, too, by lonely springs,
	In many a hollow of the hills,
And something of that pleasure known
The mountain minstrel makes his own!
In meadows which the March wind seeks
	To look for April, they are born.
They loved them much, the golden Greeks,
	The poet heroes of the davn,
Transplanting to immortal fields
The fairest flower that Nature yields.
And surely ’tis a joy supreme
	When early throstles pipe and call,
And the pale, kindly skies redeem-
	The greening earth from winter’s thrall,
To meet by pool; or tinkling rill,
The first, fine, fragile daffodil! 
I love them for the olden time,
	For some sweet vision faint and dim,
Of large delights and deeds sublime—
	I love them for the love of him
Who sang among the English hills
The glory of the daffodils.
					MARTHA T. TYLER.


[Column 1]
STAKE PRESIDENTS OF RELIEF SOCIETY.
SOME BUSY WOMEN OF THE CHURCH.
	The organization of the women of the
Latter-day Saints known as the Relief So-
ciety is operated on the general lines of or-
ganization in the Church—namely, a presi-
dency and board of directors at the head,
with a presidency and corps of assistants

[Column 2]
over each stake of Zion, and under these the
presidencies, teachers and members con-
stituting the ward society. Inasmuch as the
membership of the Relief Society is some-
thing like 35,000, the remarkably systematic
nature of its work will be evident from the
statement that the general president is kept
at all times in perfect touch with the vari-
ous charities and operations of each branch
society, no matter how small or how remote
it may be.
	There are 59 stakes of Zion and each of
these, as stated, has an organization of the
society. It is the president in each of these
stakes who is the medium between the local
workers and the general officers. All in-
structions for the conduct of the work are
communicated to the members through her,
and the work done by the members is like-
wise reported by her. It will be seen, there-
fore, that these stake presidents must needs
be very busy women in directing the affairs
of all the different wards over which they
preside and in making personal visits, not
only to the wards, but also to the homes of
the people. Some of them travel during the
year many miles over dreadful roads in order
to make these visits, while others have the
convenience of railway trains or street cars;
but whether their stakes be scattered or com-
pact, it is their duty to be personally ac-
quainted with all the work and all the work-
ers under their supervision, to know all the
conditions of the people, and to be able to
outline such policy and direct such labor as
the circumstances of their people seem to
require.
	It will be apparent that the organizations
having the most work to perform in a char-
ity sense are those located in and near the
larger cities, Salt Lake, Ogden, etc. In fact
the first Relief Society stake organization of
the Church was that of the Weber stake
where Mrs. Jane S. Richards presided with
untiring zeal for the welfare of the people
for 31 years. Besides overseeing the affairs
of the many wards in that large stake,
she personally visited hundreds of homes to
alleviate suffering and took to her own home
and provided for the immediate wants of
countless transients and wayfarers. Her re-
sidence in Ogden was so near the railway
station that she never had to look far for op-
portunity to give relief. She only retired
from her arduous work when Weber stake
was recently subdivided and new organiza-
tions were formed—and this when she had
reached the glorious age of 86 years in the
cycle of life.
	The original Salt Lake stake Relief Socie-
ty was presided over 27 years by that most
worthy and benevolent woman, Mary Isa-
bella Horne, whose name will ever be re-
vered among the women of Zion for the wise
counsel, her tender ministrations to the sick
and those who were called to mourn, and
for the wonderful skill and prudence with
which she directed the charity and business
affairs of the association under her charge.
It was under the direction of Mrs. Horne
that the class of Relief Society Nurses was
inaugurated, with Dr. Roberts as instructor
and Mrs. W. W. Riter as superintendent, the
purpose being to provide trained help for

[Column 3]
the needy sick instead of relying altogether
on the Relief Society workers, who already
had so much to do. Out of that part of the
vineyard over which Mrs. Horne presided
with such signal ability, six stakes have
since been created—Jordan, Granite, Liber-
ty, Pioneer, Salt Lake and Ensign.
	The stake Relief Society of the first-named
is presided over by Mrs. Hildah H. Larsen.
Composed mostly of a farming community,
the people generally, while not rich, are not
poor; and the labors of the Society are di-
rected more to taking care of the sick than
in relieving want.
	A large part of Granite stake, like Jordan,
is rural; but there is also a large part thick-
ly settled by renters and people of unstable
incomes—those who work hard when work
is to be had but depend largely on the con-
dition of the times for their employment.
The Society in this stake is presided over
by Mrs. Emma S. Woodruff and the labors
of the organization are many and varied.
Some of the most interesting conferences of
women held in the Church are held in Gra-
nite stake, and splendid efforts are being
made to educate the women along the lines
of Church history and biography. Clothing
is gathered in large quantities, and a work
department renovates and makes over gar-
ments to be given out to the poor in the
stake.
	The Liberty stake Society is presided over
by Mrs. Annie S. Musser, and it consists of
eight wards. Among other things under-
taken by this organization is helping the
poor in their temple work, those who have
not the time and means for genealogical re-
search and subsequent work for the dead,
being assisted by the Society. A certain day
once a month is given by the women for
temple work for the poor, and thus the bles-
sings and ordinances for the dead have been
and are being bestowed upon hundreds,
through the labors of these good women.
Like the Society in other parts of this city,
the poor they have always with them, and
they are found ever ready to extend a help-
ing hand and give comfort to those who
need. Their average annual disbursement
for charity is about $1,000, but their minis-
trations in distress cannot be counted in
dollars and cents. A unique work done in
this stake is in the direction of an employ-
ment bureau for girls. In each ward some
woman has an office desk where she takes
the names of girls desiring work and the
names of places where girls can find suitable
employment; the Society in this way retain-
ing a supervision and watchcare, to some
extent at least, over the working girls. This
admirable plan is still in embryo, but it is
certain to be the means of accomplishing
much good.
	Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon presides over
the Pioneer stake Relief Society. The peo-
ple residing in this stake are largely of the
laboring class, there being few of wealth and
many of the poor. The Society distributes
annually something like $1,300 in charity;
and when one reflects that this amount is col-
lected almost entirely by the teachers in their
regular visits from house to house, and gather-
ed in small sums from those who are them-


[Column 1]
selves none too able to give, it is a literal
instance of ‘‘the poor helping the poor.”
There are 11 wards in the stake, three of
them on the west side of the Jordan river.
These districts during a large part of the
year are very hard to visit, on account of
there being no sidewalks or railroads; but
the women who act as teachers flounder pa-
tiently through the snow and mud in calling
at the different homes on their mission of
comfort and help, and many instances might
be cited where the coming of these unselfish
and generons women has seemed to be in
very deed the visit of ministering angels.
Three times since the organization of the
stake have the wards joined to help families
whose homes had been destroyed by fire,
and in one case the Soiety in one week raised
about $500 towards building a home for a
widow with little children. The stake So-
ciety has a library of fine reference books
which are circulated among the members for
their assistance in the department of moth-
ers’ work and for the education of the women
of the stake along all benevolent and pro-
gressive lines.
	Mrs. Harriet B. Harker is president of the
Salt Lake stake Relief Society, having re-
cently been called to that position, to succeed
Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, general treasurer
of the board, who resigned the office to which
she was appointed at the organization of the
stake. The work in this stake in charity is
similar, of course, to that in the other parts
of the city, with perhaps this distinction
that more help to the really poor who are
not members of the Church is given here
than elsewhere. This is because the stake
includes districts in the thickly settled parts
where tenement houses and and cheap lodg-
ing places prevail. The teachers’ work in these
districts are very arduous, and their experi-
ences at times are well nigh heartrending,
for here is found the nearest approach to the
slum conditions, and the real poverty of the
big cities, and the relief workers find much
to do and sometimes great difficulty in the
doing. A great missionary work is being
done in this stake, a number of sisters hav-
ing been called to labor among the people
as missionaries, to visit the different homes
and talk of the gospel and its beauties, and
thus to spread the spirit of the work. The
mothers’ department is also most interest-
ing; outlines touching on almost every sub-
ject that would be helpful to the mother in
rearing her family having been prepared and
lectures being given and discussed in special
mothers’ meetings—all of which has led a
large number of young mothers into Relief
Society work. This stake also has a special
department for Book of Mormon study, and
once a month the Society meets for this pur-
pose. Salt Lake is one of the few stake or-
ganizations where meetings are held weekly;
but as the work grows, so grows the necessity
for more time to be devoted to it.
	The Ensign stake Relief Society is presided
over by Mrs. Margaret A. Romney. Here dwell
the wealthier population of Salt Lake City,
but within its boundaries are also included
some poor and thickly settled districts, in
which there is ample opportunity for charit-
able effort and for the disbursement of a
considerable sum from the Relief Society
fund. The organization in this stake has
splendid material for mothers’ department
work, and most interesting lectures are given
in the different wards for the help of the
young home-maker. The sick are visited,
the mourners comforted, and every duty re-
quired of these kind workers in helping to
build up the people spiritually is cheerfully

[Column 2]
and promptly performed. The stake meet-
ings are excellent in spirit and are always
marked by a fine attendance.
	Allusion has here been made to only half
a dozen out of the vast number of organiza-
tions which exist throughout the Church;
but enough has probably been said to show
that the stake president, wherever her
field of labor may be, has full opportunity
for the exercise of originality of thought and
energy of action in meeting the conditions
by which she is surrounded. Surely the du-
ties devolving also upon Relief Society work-
ers are anything but insignificant. The ne-
cessities of the poor, the necessities of the
sick and the afflicted, the necessities of the
erring,and of those that lack understanding,
and the endeavor to implant in their hearts the
testimony of the Spirit of God—to look after
these things is the duty of Relief Society
workers. As to the system of organized
charity which they pursue, nothing could be
more perfect. With a band of women visit-
ing regularly every home in their respective
districts for the express purpose of finding
out the different needs and ministering to
them, there is no chance for the existence of
actual and unrelieved want; and the true
Christian spirit of love and help for one’s
fellow man is the real spirit and watchword
of Relief Society work. It follows, therefore,
that there could be no grander or better
school for women than in the work which
the Society affords. It teaches unselfishness,
pity, mercy, kindness and love—it is an in-
spiration to the soul to progress and learn
all the good in life and then to impart that
good to others. Surely. “Charity never
faileth.”		ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A PARTY AND BANQUET
(in Honor of Sister Ellen D. Clark on her Sixty-Ninth
				Birthday.)
	On November 22nd, 1908, the Relief So-
ciety of the Second Ward of American Fork,
together with the local board members of
the other three wards, also stake officers,
Pres. Rebecca Standring, Counselors Annie
C. Hindley, and Harriet Jacobs, Secretary
Emma Featherstone, Asst. Sec. Emma J.
Robberts, Relief Society Missionaries Sina
Chipman, Mary Webb, and Rachel Hunter,
met in the 2nd ward chapel at 2 p. m.
	A conveyance was then sent for Sister
Clark, who supposed that a singing practice
was going to be held, but before she had
reached her accustomed seat, knew that the
beautiful decorations, and the distinguished
faces present meant something unusual, but
a few seconds had passed when she took in
the situation, and knew she was the victim
of a surprise party.
	A good program was rendered, many
beautiful sentiments and good wishes for
our dear sister were expressed. A delicious
lunch was served during which time toasts
and sentiments were given in honor of the
stake officers.
	Sister Clark was so overcome she could
hardly express her feelings.
	She has been a worker in the Relief So-
ciety ever since its first organization in
American Fork. For many years has been
local agent for the Woman’s Exponent, and
is an active worker in the Alpine stake at
the present time.
	A beautiful black silk dress pattern was
presented to Sister Clark as a token, of re-
membrance.
				ELIZA BUCKWALTER,
							Secretary.


Lines to Sister Ellen D. Clarke,
Written by Eliza Buckwalter, Sec. of Am. Fork
		2nd Ward Relief Society.

	In the dear old land of Scotland,
	In a town near the “Firth of Forth”
	A little baby girl was born,
	Who has proven of wondrous worth.

	She was watched o’er by fond parents,
	Who were anxious about her fame;
	It was finally decided 
	That Ellen D. should be her name.

	She glided along through childhood,
	Was both intelligent and bright;
	When the gospel truths were shown her,
	She could plainly see its light.

	Let us gather unto “Zion,”
	Could be heard on every hand
	To dwell among the “Saints of God” 
	She left her dear, native land.
		
	The journey no doubt was a long one,
	But at last reached American Fork;
	Where every one knew and loved her;
	And to all was “dear Sister Clark.”

	This life is not always sunshine,
	Our sister had sorrow to share;
	Her husband this life departed,
	She was left for her children to care.

	She struggled along most bravely,
	Determined her mission to fill,
	She never found time to falter,
	While climbing up life’s busy hill.

	In Sunday School, Relief Society,
	Choir, ‘‘Old Folks,” or whatever part,
	She labored on untiringly,
	With willing hand and loving heart.

	When that sad accident befell her.
	Not even a complaining word,
	But endured all most patiently 
	And said “’tis the will of the Lord.”

	In preparing Temple raiment,
	She seems to take special delight,
	That those who go to the House of God,
	Will have those sacred things all right.

	In filling the empty caskets,
	With bodies whose spirits have flown,
	The number has been recorded,
	And will speak when the bugle has blown.

	The many good deeds of our sister,
	We can never, never portray;
But we know the welcome words “well done,”
Will be said on the great judgment day.


OBITUARY AND RESOLUTIONS OF
				RESPECT.
	To the memory of our beloved Sister Mary
Tattersoll. She was the daughter of James and
Mary Topping, born December 2nd, 1850, in Pres-
ton, Lancashire, England; died August 28th, 1908,
from dropsy resulting from leakage of the heart,
brought on from the great shock of her son Ar-
thur’s death which was the result of an injury
received at the Utah Sugar Factory.
	Her husband from exposure while attending to
the son took pneumonia, and died in less than
two weeks afterward.
	Sister Tattersoll’s father was one of the first to
embrace the gospel in England, during the time
when Pres. Heber C Kimball labored there, and
from that time until coming to Utah in 1879. His
home was ever open to the Elders.
	Sister Tattersoll was the mother of five chil-
dren, three of whom survive her, two sons and
one daughter.
	She was a faithful Latter-day Saint, a member
of the Relief Society, and was ever liberal in don-
ating to the poor.
	Reseolved by the sisters of the 2nd Ward Relief
Society of American Fork, that we sincerely regret
her departure and keenly feel our loss.
	Resolved that we extend to her orphan children
our deepest sympathy, and pray that God will
watch over them and will indeed be a father to
the fatherless.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be kept
on record, also a copy sent to the local paper, one 
also to the Woman’s Exponent for publication.
					Sarah S. Chipman, Pres.
					Eliza Buckwalter, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


GOOD NIGHT.
Nay, not unkind, but merciful is death, 
He folds our tired hands, stills e’en our breath
He lays us fondly on our mother’s breast
Who sings sweet lullabyes of heavenly rest.
		Good night, good night.

No clamoring din to mar our well earned sleep;
No fitfnl dreams from which to start and weep
With joy in tasks accomplished close our eyes
And gently drift away to paradise—
		Good night, good night.

How beautiful to watch the sunset fade,
Drink in the glory of the purpling shade,
Without regret behold the darkness grow—
The light is almost gone,—the fire burns low—
		Good night, good night.
						RUTH M. FOX.
	Inscribed to the late Maria Wilcox.

			RESOLUTIONS.
MARIA WEALTHY RICHARDS WILCOX.

	Whereas our Father in heaven has seen fit to
call from us our beloved President, Sister Maria
W. Wilcox, whom we shall greatly miss for her
many sterling qualities, and one who was true to
every trust,
	Whereas the poor have lost a benevolent sister,
the distressed a comforter, having always carried
with her a sweet spirit, which was felt by those
she met, be it
	Resolved, that we, the members of the Relief
Society condone with the family in the loss of a
noble wife a loving mother, and considerate sister,
be it
	Resolved that these resolutions be filed in
the minutes of the Fourteenth Ward Relief Soci-
ety, Salt Lake City, and a copy be sent to the
family.
					Rida C. Taylor,
					Nellie D Woodruff,
Committee.			Louisa F. Brown,
					Sarah C. Folsom,


[Column 1]
		IN MEMORIAM.
MARIA WEALTHY RICHARDS WILCOX.

“No sighs are heard in the shadowy place
	No voices of them that weep
They have fought the fight and finished the race,
	God giveth them rest in sleep.

“Are they dreaming, the sleepers pale and still.
	For their faces are rapt and calm,
As though they were treading the Holy Hill,
	And hearkening the angel’s psalm,”

	In recording the departure of those we
have been intimately associated with to a
higher life beyond, we often fail not only in
satisfying their immediate relatives and
friends, but in expressing our own senti-
ments. It has fallen to my lot, many times
to write notices of my friends, and I have
sometimes thought will there be any left of
those I knew in early womanhood? I have
felt this very deeply in the demise of Sister
Wilcox. For many years we have met each
other in “sweet converse,” as it were daily,
and as I sit here writing, I almost feel I
might look up and see her coming in the
door, but alas, no. We shall not meet
again on this side the veil, that hides those
who have left us for that “Betterland from
our view.
	Sister Wilcox was one of those who knew
the Prophet Joseph Smith and had sat under
his teaching and could bear testimony of
him and of his divine mission. Of those
who knew the prophet and could testify of 
his wonderful personality and powerful

[Column 2]
ministrations among the Saints there are
but few remaining.
	Sister Maria Wealthy Richards was
born, so to speak, among the Berkshire hills
in the old Bay State; many of the great men
and women of the world boast of coming
from that celebrated locality, and a number
of illustrious Latter day Saints, the Richards
and Spencer families and others. Miss
Richards was born in Richmond, Berkshire
Co., Massachusetts, June 17, 1827, her par-
ents were Phinehas Howe, cousin of Brig-
ham Young, and Wealthy Dewey Richards.
They were of the early Puritans, and proud
of that descent. Sister Wilcox was Puri-
tanical in manner, in habits possessing all
the very best qualities of that noble origin.
Her father’s family, including herself, be-
came converts to the “Mormon” faith and
moved to Nauvoo, Illinois, in 1843; the
daughter, Maria, had received a good com-
mon school education and taught school
herself when fifteen years of age.
	On Dec. 10, 1855, Miss Richards was
married to Walter Eli Wilcox, who was
born in Dorchester, Mass., adjoining Boston.
After the marriage Mr. and Mrs. Wilcox
went to St. Louis. Mo., to reside and from
that city emigrated to Salt Lake City, with
a large company of Saints in ox teams, ar-
riving in the valley in September, 1852.
	Sister Wilcox endured the hardships of
that three months’ journey across the plains
with that same heroic fortitude that she
has manifested throughout her whole life.
	Sister Wilcox has always been a busy
woman, possessing the best characteristics
of a wife and mother and a model home-
maker; she was orderly, industrious, econ-
omicsl and thrifty, and neatness personified
in herself and in her home and surround-
ings; fond of flowers, and especially roses
which she always raised in abundance. We
can never forget her gifts of roses, from her
own garden.
	A sweet and dainty poem written by Ruth
M. Fox on her eightieth birthday, calling
her “A June Rose,” is very applicable to
her life and the poem closes with these ex-
quisite lines:

		“To a rose fully blown
		We do honor today,
		Of exquisite neatness,
Rounded and full-a corolla of sweetness;
Old rose, we will call it for sake of completenss,
A life of well-doing drives old age away.

		The twilight is passing
		Dear friends gone before
		Are calling, soft calling,
The petals are falling, falling fast falling
But the way is not long, nor dark, nor appalling
There roses bloom ever to wither no more.”

	The complete poem was published in the
June number of this paper 1907.
	Sister Wilcox was an active member of
the Relief Society from its inception here,
and was elected Corresponding Secretary of
the Relief Society of Salt Lake Stake in De-
cember 1877, when the stake was organized,
and continued to fill that office and to visit
in the various wards of the stake until the
division of the stake in 1903, although in
1899 she was chosen President of the Relief
Society in the Fourteenth ward in this city
which position she held at the time of her
death. She has been one of the workers of
the Salt Lake Temple ever since it was
opened for ordinances in May 1893, and has
seldom been absent. She has also officiated
for very many of her kindred, who had pas-
sed away without the knowledge of the Gos-
pel, and she will without doubt be welcomed
with joy and gladness by them, when she

[Column 3]
reaches the “other side.” Thousands will
miss her here, and the sisters who officiate
in the Temple most of all perhaps except
her immediate family.
	She died on Wednesday evening, January
13, 1909, full of faith and good works and
with a full assurance of an abundant en-
trance into the celestial kingdom, for she had
been faithful and true to all her covenants,
and had accepted every principle pertaining
to exaltation, as revealed through the Prophet
of the Lord; and had received all the ordin-
ances and blessings pertaining to an exalta-
tion hereafter.
	Sister Wilcox’s funeral was held in the
Assembly Hall in the ward where she resided,
and the house was crowded with her rela-
tives and friends. Bishop Elias Woodruff
presided and Prof. C. J. Thomas and the
Temple choir furnished sacred music, the
Hymns were “Unveil thy bosom, faithful
tomb” and “Farewell all earthly honors,”
and the following solos were beautifully ren-
dered: “Sometime we will understand,” by
Miss Edith Grant; “Face to Face,” by Mrs.
Lizzie Thomas Edward; and “O Love Di-
vine,” by Mrs. George Q Morris. The opening
prayer was by Elder Rodney C. Badger and
the speakers were Bishop George Romney,
President John R. Winder, President Anthon
H. Lund, President Bathsheba W. Smith
and Sister Emmeline B. Wells who repre-
sented the General Relief Society. The clos-
ing prayer was offered by Elder Adolph
Madsen.
	The beautiful white casket was literally
covered with the most delicate flowers in
every conceivable design. The Relief So-
ciety of the Fourteenth Ward took charge of
the flowers in the “Big Utah.” The pall
bearers were the four sons and two eldest
grandsons of Sister Wilcox. Her sons are
George A., Charles F., Franklin A., and Ed-
ward E. Wilcox; grandsons Walter Arnold,
and Stevenson Wilcox. A large cortege fol-
lowed the remains to the grave where Elder
Horace Cummings dedicated the grave.
	Sister Wilcox was the mother of nine chil-
dren, one son died a few years ago and four
sons and four daughters survive her and a
large number of grandchildren and great-
grandchildren.
	Sister Wilcox was only severely ill three
days, having attended the tabernacle ser-
vices as usual on Sunday, January 10; she
was most exemplary in all her religious du-
ties.

“Better than earthly presence e’en the dearest,
	Is the great blessing that our partings bring;
For in the loneliest moments God is nearest,
	And from our sorrows heavenly comforts spring,
			If God be with us.”

“Good-bye, good-bye, with latest breath we say
		it,
	A legacy of hope, and faith, and love;
Parting must come, we cannot long delay it
	But one in Him, we hope to meet above,
		If God be with us,”
								E. B. W.


The California suffragists have opened
legislative headquarters at Sacramento, and
the New York suffragists at Albany, and
there are other State suffrage headquarters
Des Moines and Chicago, besides the old
National Headquarters at Warren, O., where
a vast amopnt of business is done, and the
newly opened one in Washington, D. C., for
Congressional work. But Boston can boast
of the oldest suffrage headquarters in the
country, maintained in that city without a
break for nearly forty years.—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, 1$.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
at second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.	-	-	JANUARY, 1909.


[Column 1]
		THE NEW YEAR, 1909.
	The close of the year 1908 was not only
overflowing with general interest in affairs
of the utmost importance in these days of
the greatest achievements, of all kinds im-
aginable, but there was the excitement fol-
lowing the election of a new president of the
United States, which is always interesting;
but when it seemed the year was just mak-
ing its exit, nevermore to return, then there
came the astounding telegraphic news of
the greatest calamity known to the world
for over a century at least. The distressing
disaster of the terrible earthquake in Sicily
and Southern Italy, caused such widespread
consternation, as to awaken the sympathy
and the deepest emotions of the human
heart in tender compassion for the sufferers.
	It is said by those best acquainted with
the history of such world events and with
atmospheric and earth disturbances, that
the recent holocaust in Southern Italy, and
surrounding islands along the coast, now
devastated and destroyed, that there has not
been anything so dreadful and appalling
since 1783. Tidal waves are not so un-
common in some sea coast places, where
there are shoals of islands, but the wide-
spread area of destruction in this alarming
catastrophe, and the thousands of human
lives instantaneously, as it were, swept
away, hurled to destruction, and those not
killed outright, mangled and disabled,
homeless and disconsolate, dependent upon
the mercy and charity of the world, not
knowing what their fate is to be, is too
deplorable to be dwelt, upon and yet, one
whose heart is full of compassion, must
needs contemplate these circumstances
more or less, though far removed from us or
our country; millions of dollars worth of
property utterly destroyed, and those who
survive left penniless, these are solemn
facts; horrors indeed to the sensitive mind,
and although liberal contributions came
from many sources, there is much pain and
misery that cannot be mitigated or allevi-
ated, and though in this land far removed
from these terrible occurrences, yet the
woes of humanity touch tenderly every sen-
sitive living soul, and the prayers of tens of
thousands ascend to heaven in behalf of
those, who suffer from these dread calam-
tics.

	Nevertheless the new year has opened
propitiously, and here in our own famous
land of America, prosperity seems to smile

[Column 2]
upon the people, and except the ills to
which flesh is heir, everywhere, no danger
threatens the peace and tranquility of this
glorious commonwealth.
	There are some problems confronting the
people of this nation but they are only shad-
ows, as it were, compared with the grave
and serious conditions that hang over some
of the most enterprising foreign lands.
	As a people we believe there is safety in
keeping the commandments of God, as re-
vealed in this last dispensation, and rejoice
that the truths revealed from heaven in this
day and age, through the Prophet Joseph
Smith, are spreading throughout the world
of mankind. The gospel is being preached
in many lands, and the honest in heart are
being converted and coming to an under-
standing of its saving principles.
	Therefore as Latter-day Saints we have
great reason to rejoice and be glad, for Zion
will arise and shine, and put on her beautiful
garments, and the glory thereof will eventu-
ally fill the whole earth, as has been fore-
told by prophets and apostles of old, and
of the present dispensation.

	The Lord is at the helm, and will bring
to pass His righteous purposes in the earth,
and the Saints who are in the line of their
duty will be on the alert, watching the signs
of the times and discerning the significance
of momentous events as they transpire from
time to time. It is all a part of the great
drama being enacted in the world of which
we as individual are only an insignificant
part.
	Meantime each one has a chance if ever so
small in the great development of knowl-
edge of God and His purposes; and work to
do that may count for much or little, ac-
cording to the diligence and devotion of the
doers; and the light and intelligence brought
to bear upon the object to be attained.
	One cannot be at ease in Zion, is an old
saying, for the work is pressing, and it re-
quires the utmost zeal and capacity of the
individual effort and endeavor to accom-
plish the designs of the Almighty in over-
coming evil, and establishing truth and
righteousness in the earth.
	In this greatest dispensation, when all
former dispensations are to be merged into
one, women have an important part, and
one that will require greatness of soul and
magnanimity of purpose beyond that to
which they have as yet attained; although
many grand and noble ones have laid the
foundation for those who are now engaged in
the far-reaching undertakings that are being
developed, but those who are coming for-
ward will yet see how vast the increase will
be; surely “the” harvest is great and the
reapers are few.
	The work for the living and the dead, in
the temples already built is marvelous, but
when more temples are built there will be
need of such an army of women workers as
well as men that one looking forward can
scarce conceive of its magnitude.
	Are our young women preparing them-
selves for this mighty undertaking? Are
they appreciating the fact that they are
heirs to all these privileges and blessings?
This is an endless theme to dwell upon, and
reaches far into the past and none living
can satisfactorily grasp its future, indeed it
is not given to man to know all that there is
in store, but the Lord reveals to His proph-
ets here a little and there a little.

[Column 3]
	In connection with the foregoing,we espec-
ially, recommend the work recently taken
hold of in a way to open up more and greater
interest in the work for the dead in estab-
lishing a Genealogical Society in the Church.
We believe this will lead up to greater ad-
vancement in Temple work and awaken a
stronger conviction of its necessity in the
minds of the youth of Zion, who have not
all been awakened to its vast and far-
reaching importance.


IDEAL.
A DREAM.
	My dear fellow-workers, I fear that a
great many of us do not realize the import-
ance that is attached to Relief Society work.
	The vague idea that it is only an organ-
zation for the older sisters is a profound
mistake, its doors stand open for the girls
of sixteen as well as the sisters of more ma-
ture experience.
	When our beloved prophet opened the
door of benefit for woman, he did not sim-
ply mean the few who were fortunate
enough to be under the sound of his voice
at that time.
	But the knowledge of woman organized was
a legacy given to the whole world of woman-
kind, his words that were delivered by in-
spiration have had their effect not only
smongst us as Latter-day Saints, but their
significance and influence have threaded
their way through the civilized nations of
the earth, politically and religiously. Var-
ous kinds of benevolent societies and clubs
have since that memorable day sprung into
existence and the originators of them know
not why or what instinct has led them on
to action.
	But we who have the spirit of truth burn-
ing in our bosoms know that all these subor-
dinate systems are but flickering footlights
under the blaze of a great institution whose
wheels are moved by the power of revela-
tion.
	Our society here in Randolph is in a
healthy condition, the president is energetic
and alive to her duties, she and her counsel-
ors are as one, love and harmony exists be-
tween every officer and teacher.
	I consider we are blessed above all the
other branches in our stake, as we are in
touch with the stake presidency, their homes
being right here.
	We are occasionally favored with a visit
from our stake president, Sarah Tyson, and
her diligent staff of officers, who are ever
willing to impart unto us words of counsel
and encouragement.
	That we will be judged and rewarded for
what we have done should remain no longer a
a doubt with Relief Society workers. I was
skeptical for a long time in regard to our be-
ing judged from our Relief Society records, but
doubt fled with the wings of night after I
had been convinced through a dream.
	All at once I seemed to be in the com-
pany of a very intelligent and dignified per-
sonage, who walked some distance with
me until we reached an elevated portion of
ground. While standing there viewing the
surrounding country, my companion pointed
to the west. I turned and looked in the
direction he pointed, there before me were
two rows of magnificent trees whose
branches towered to the sky, their beautiful
foliage was splendor itself. A pathway sep-
arated these trees, and the glorious rays of
the sun shone on it, blending harmoniously
with the rich green tone displayed. While


I was admiring the beauties of nature and
enjoying the calm serenity of the atmos-
phere, the venerable and much beloved
Bathsheba W. Smith came walking leisure-
ly up the snow white path. I can vividly
recall her to mind now, as I beheld her in
my dream, with that broad, sweet smile on
her queenly face, as she came nearer and
nearer to the end of the path. Her dress
was perfectly plain, and in her right arm
she clasped firmly three large books, simi-
lar to our Church records; when she reached
the end of the path she turned to the right,
walked a few steps, and reaching a large
brick building she knocked at the door,
which was instantly opened. She walked in,
carrying the records with her. Turning to
the guide I asked if that was her home, he
answered, “Yes.”
	As this dream has impressed me very much
felt a desire to make it known through your
valuable little paper. It comes like a
stream of sunshine every month and its con-
tents are eagerly read by us.
	Dear sisters, may humility be our watch-
word, and obedience to the living oracles of
God here upon the earth, is the desire of your
sister in the Gospel.
					LOUISA GRAY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		EMERY STAKE.
	The Emery Stake Relief Society con-
ference convened at Huntington on
Friday, October 30, 1908. Two sessions were
held, beginning at ten a. m. and two p. m.,
respectively. Although there were no visit-
ors from the general board, the conference
was a decided success. Nine local branches
were represented. The welcome address
was given by Mary A. Sorenson, and Coun-
selors Caroline M. Guymon and Mary J.
King, who spoke on Relief Society work in
general, and encouraged the sisters to con-
tinue the good work.
	Favorable reports were given of the fol
lowiug: Huntington, Castledale, Orange-
ville, Emery, Ferron, Lawrence, Cleveland,
Desert Lake and Price.
	Sister Alice Whimpey read a chapter from
the life of Joseph Smith. 
	Sisters Hattie Reid and Amanda Tuttle
rendered a duet entitled, “When the Mists
Have Cleared Aw’ay.”
	A report of the Sunnyside Relief Society
was read by President Mary A. Sorenson.
	Sister Kate Fulmer gave a lecture on
Woman’s Influence in the Home Town,
County and State.”
	A song was rendered by Sister Rachel
Thomas.
	Sister Mary T. Fowler gave a talk on
“Prohibition,” taking for her subject “Does
it pay to have liquors sold, and thus get
the revenue?”
	Sister Rosella Riley spoke on “Prohibi-
tion” and the means of obtaining the same.
	Elder John Wakefield spoke encourag-
ingly to the sisters and asked the Lord to
bless them in their efforts to do good.
	Sisters Cecelia Woodward, Hannah Leon-
ard and Elizabeth Howard sang “When I
I Reap What I Have Sown.” President
Mary A. Sorenson said she had enjoyed
the conference, and spoke on Mother’s
Plan Work, hospital funds, socials for Relief
Society teachers, etc., and thanked all for
their help. A song was rendered by Sister
Hannah Leonard. Sister Esther Grange
reported the prohibition movement and ex-
plained the same. Bishop Antone Neilson

[Column 2]
expressed himself in favor of prohibition
and thought the women were engaged in a
good cause.
	After singing and benediction the confer-
ence adjourned for six months.
			ANNIE MARIA ALLEN,
					Secretary.

		LIBERTY STAKE. 
	Liberty Stake Relief Society conference
was held in the 9th ward meeting house,
December 10th, 1908, President Annie S.
Musser presiding. After the opening exer-
cises, President Musser feelingly greeted the
sisters and spoke words of welcome, also
felt grateful for the many blessings she en-
joyed.
	Reports were made by the presidents of
the 9th, 31st and 33rd wards, all were in
the line of their duty, and performing a
good work.
	President Annie Wells Cannon of the
Pioneer Stake Relief Society, and a member
of the General Board, gave, by request-
a sketch of the life of her mother,
Emmeline B. Wells, the General Sec-
retary of the Relief Society, which
was very interesting and much enjoyed.
	A duet was rendered by Sisters Bailey and
Kirkman. After benediction by Sister
Blanche Earl, adjourned until 2 o’clock.
	Conference reconvened at 2 o’clock. After
the preliminary exercises, Sister Jennie
Lloyd gave a lecture on “The Training of
the Child in the Home,” which was very
instructive and helpful to mothers.
	Sister Strong rendered the solo entitled,
“Jesus Lover of my Soul.”
	Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth, of the
General Board, felt proud of being a mem-
ber of the Relief Society and gave some
timely instructions to the sisters.
	Counselor Zurviah G. Eardley gave in-
structions to presidents in regard to looking
after the poor and infirm. Elder C. W.
Symons, of the High Council, made a few
timely remarks, and encouraged the sisters
to continue in the good work, and urged the
mothers to watch and guard their boys and
girls.
	President Musser made a few closing
remarks, thanking all who had helped to
make the conference a success. After sing-
ing, and benediction, conference adjourned
for six months.
	A delicious lunch was served, between the
meetings to all present.
Lizzie Robbins, Secretary.

			NEBO STAKE.
	Conference convened at Goshen, Friday,
September 18, 1908, at 10 a. m.
	President Eliza J. Dixon presiding, First
Counselor Martha S. Kapple in charge.
Opening exercises as usual, Sister Price,
President of Goshen ward spoke a few
words of welcome and encouragement.
Sister Kapple reported the visit of the Stake
Presidency in Tintic district, and spoke of
the disadvantages under which they labor in
mining camps, also spoke of the great im-
portance of our children marrying in the
Temple.
	Sister Tietjen, president of Santaquin
ward reported her ward in good condition,
and the benefit they are receiving from the
parents’ class work. Their society have
built a new granary; have 1,000 bushels of
grain.
	Sister Foster reported Eureka ward in
good condition. Recitation, Louie Taylor,
entitled "Mother was Away.”

[Column 3]
	Sister Dixon spoke for some time on the
Word of Wisdom and read some of the 89th
section of the Doctrine and Covenants, said
we should use wisdom in all things, the
Word of Wisdom means many things. If
we will keep the laws of God our health will
be good.
	Sister Matilda Dixon read a paper on the
subject of tithing, of its origin, and gave
many references on the subject, and ex-
plained them very beautifully. After singing
and prayer, conference adjourned until 2 p.m.
	Afternoon session at 2 p. m., conference
reconvened, President Dixon presiding,
Mary F. Brown in charge. After singing
and prayer, etc., Sister Page spoke on the
subject of divine authority and explained it
very clearly, also spoke of some of the
things that were spoken of at our last Stake
conference.
	Song by Sister Oakelberry entitled, “The
Old Rag Carpet.”
	Sister Townsend, one of the Stake Board,
spoke on the subject of prayer and its im-
portance, also the answer to prayer.
	Recitation, Sister Powelson, “Trouble in
the Amen Choir.”
	Sister Roberts, of Goshen, was pleased to
have R. S. conference in Goshen again,
spoke of the Relief Society as being the
mother of the Church, also spoke of the
Woman’s Exponent, and the great benefit
and importance it is to the society.
	Bishop Oakelberry spoke of the faithful-
ness of our older sisters, also said we as
young people are seeking the riches and
pleasure of this life too much.
	Brother Finch spoke a few minutes on
the Word of Wisdom, also said we should
work for our spiritual salvation as well as
a temporal one.
	Brother Roberts, one of the High Council
spoke on Relief Society work for a short
time. Bishop Tanner spoke of the good
things that had been talked of today. 
	Sister Dixon thanked the people of Gosh-
en for the kindness that had been shown the
visiting brethren and sisters.
	Sister Mary F. Brown made a few closing
remarks. Conference adjourned for three
months, singing “On the mountain tops
appearing,” and benediction by Sister
Emma Jenkins.
	ELIZA A. HAWKINS, Cor. Sec.

			ONEIDA STAKE.
	Relief Society annual conference held in
Preston, May 2, 1908. President Louisa B.
Benson presiding.
	There was present of the General Board
Sister Susan Grant and Annie Wells Can-
non, full Stake Board present.
	Singing, Prayer, Singing, Roll called, 19
wards represented.
	Minutes. Statistical and financial report
approved.
	President Benson welcomed all to our
conference, reported a new society viz. Win-
der, making the 20th in the stake.
	President Julia Jenson reported the 2nd
ward as building a new granary.
	Solo—Dora Geddes.
	Fairview, Weston and Franklin were re-
ported by their respective presidents.
	Sister Annie Wells Cannon addressed the
conference on The Broadness of Relief So-
ciety Work, said every woman in Zion should 
be an example of purity. Spoke of the du-
ties of teachers, power of organized charity,
looking after spiritual welfare of sisters and
of the watchcare we should haye over our
girls, keeping them from large cities etc.


[Column 1]
	Singing—Solo, “Zion stands with hills
surrounded.”
	Preston 3rd ward and Mink Creek reported.
	Sister Susan Grant endorsed what had
been said and spoke on making good re-
cords, mothers reading good books and the
education of our children.
	President L. B. Benson spoke of responsi-
bilities of our teachers.
	Counselors Hannah Mickleson and Lucy
Parkinson each made a few remarks.
	Morning session closed with singing and
prayer.
	A banquet was given between the meet-
ings at which over 800 people were served.
	Afternoon Session. Stake President Geo.
C. Parkinson and other leading brethren
were present.
	After opening exercises President Louisa
B. Benson reported the stake. Two new or-
ganizations, Cherryville and Winder; all
branches in fair condition.
	Sister Susan Grant addressed the confer-
ence on “Qualification for Duties,” being
examples for all, cultivation of faith, and
teaching our children the gospel.
	Piano Solo—Eva Johnson.
	Sister Sylvia L. Jensen read an article
written in memory of Elizabeth Fox by De-
lilah E. Dudley.
	Sister Annie Wells Cannon spoke encour-
aging words to Society workers, and spoke
on temperance; great women who had work-
ed for it—also woman’s franchise, advised
parents to teach their sons and daughters to
be true to themselves and their faith.
	Duet—Dora Geddes and Pearl Eames.
	Recitation, “Be merciful”—a member of
Weston Society.
	President Parkinson commented on the
success of the banquet. Spoke of the power
of the mother in molding character. Advised
the husbands and fathers to give their wives
their tenderest thoughts.
	A vote of thanks was given to the various
banquet committees.
	Singing by Academy Choir. Benediction
Jos. S. Geddes.
				LINDA N. BENSON,
						Cor. Sec.
		NORTH WEBER STAKE.
	November 12, 1908. The first quarterly
conference of the Relief Society of the North
Weber stake of Zion, convened at the Relief
Society stake house at Ogden.
	The morning session convened at 10:30
a. m, and the following visitors were present.
Sisters Harriet B. Harker and Rebecca
Nibley of the general board, President C. F.
Middleton of the Weber stake and stake
secretary Nellie Becraft of the Ogden stake,
also a full representation of the Relief So-
ciety stake officers of the North Weber stake.
	Stake President Georgina G. Marriott con-
ducted the conference.
	Singing, “Guide us, O, Thou Great Jeho-
vah.” Prayer, President C. F. Middleton.
Singing, “Redeemer of Israel.”
	Stake President Georgina G. Marriott said,
the visiting sisters desired to hear a report
from each ward in the new stake. There are
eleven Relief Society organizations in the
North Weber stake, and all are reported as
doing good work. The attendance at meet-
ings is increasing, the young mothers are
joining, and the lessons, outlined by the
Relief Society stake officers are proving of
great benefit in the wards in bringing the
young married sisters to a realization of the
good, Relief Society work will do for them.
The president also explained the object of

[Column 2]
taking up the subjects of “Prayer” and “The
Sabbath Day.” These subjects were for the
month of November and others would be
outlined every month.
	President C. F. Middleton of the Weber
stake spoke on the subject, “What Relief
Society will do for young mothers.”. He
likened the old Weber stake to a hive of
bees, who had become so numerous, that it
had become necessary to divide them, in
order to get them to do more thorough
work, also spoke of the first organization of
the Relief Society.
	Stake secretary Nellie Becraft of the Ogden
stake felt at home in this conference and
spoke of the good Relief Society would do
for young mothers, and of the great help
and benefit they could be to the older sisters.
	Singing, “Our God, we raise to Thee.”
Benediction by stake counselor Lucy H.
Williams.
	Conference adjourned until 1:30 p. m.
	After the morning session a delicious
luncheon was served, and all were invited
to stay and partake of the same. About
two hundred people sat down to the tables,
spread with an abundance of the bounties
of life.
	The afternoon session convened at 1:30
p. m. and there were present: Sisters Har-
riet B. Harker and Rebecca Nibley of the
general board, President James Wotherspoon
of the North Weber stake, and President
Harriet E. Woodmanse of the first ward
Relief Society of the Weber stake.
	Stake President Georgina G. Marriott pre-
siding.
	Singing, “O, Ye mountains high.” Prayer
by President James Wotherspoon of the
North Weber stake. Singing, “Prayer is the
souls sincere disire.”
	Sister Harriet B. Harker was pleased to
see a mixed congregation of old and young
sisters and spoke on the subjects of “Indivi-
dual Responsibility” and “Training of Chil-
dren,” she also urged the sisters, to try and
bring out all the good we can from any one
with whom we come in contact.
	Sister Mary A. Terry of the Marriott ward
sang “O, blessed was the day.”
	Sister Rebecca Nibley had been pleased
with the reports of the wards at the morning
session; spoke on “The power of prayer” and
of the necessity of living pure lives, and
having pure thoughts and of honoring the
priesthood.
	President James Wotherspoon regretted,
not being able to be at the morning session,
but had been pleased with the spirit of the
conference this afternoon. He spoke of the
good that had already been accomplished,
since the division of the old Weber stake, as
it had called into service a greater number of
the brethren and sisters; he spoke of the
noble work of a teacher, also of the necessity
and power of prayer and hoped the time
would come when the spirit of God would
be in every home in the stake, and that the
influence would be felt throughout the stake;
he also spoke of discouraging working on
the Sabbath, as that day should be a day of
rest, and had been set apart as such by the
Lord.
	President Georgina G. Marriott thanked
the sisters for coming out to conference, and
for the support they had given the stake
officers; she also thanked the sisters of the
“third ward” for the able way, in which
they had served the luncheon.
	Singing, “Doxology.” Benediction by
Sister Elizabeth Marriott.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
		MARY N. BUTLER, Stake Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMEN OF THE NINETEENTH CENTUTY.

	“New occasions teach new duties;
	Time makes ancient good uncouth
	They must upward still and onward,
	Who would keep abreast of truth.”
							—Lowell.
	The century just passed has been a won-
drous change in the status of woman, and
has seen many rights and privileges secured
to her, which in preceding years were con-
sidered possible by the few only. Women
today enjoy more privileges than ever be-
fore in the world’s history. If we read the
signs of the times aright, we understand to
some extent how this has been accomplished. 
Our Father’s purposes are brought about on
perfectly natural principles. 
	He had declared that light should shine
forth. The way had been prepared to some
extent by such reformers as: Martin Luther,
John Wesley, and many others who had
been moved upon by the Spirit of the Lord. 
The times were ripe for the light to begin to
shine. The Prophet of latter days was born
December 23, 1805. The Church was or-
ganized on the 6th day of April, 1830. The
Relief Society was organized on the 17th
day of March, 1842, by the Prophet Joseph
Smith.
	I can find no record of an organization of wo-
men prior to this time. No woman dared
attempt to enter the professional world. 
Sixty-two years ago Harriet Martineau,
while visiting in America, declared that she
found here but seven occupations for wo-
men; teaching, needlework, taking boarders,
typesetting, employment in cotton mills,
domestic science, and book-binding. Yes,
women were allowed to bind books but not
to write them. 
	Think of George Elliot as she called her-
self, being obliged to take a man’s name in
order to have her writings published. Think
of poor Jane Austen hastily dropping her
sewing over the writing when a guest came
in; that she might not be called ungenteel. 
	It is only forty-nine years since Elizabeth
Blackwell, applying for permission to win a
medical diploma, was refused by a dozen
colleges, one of which added to its refusal
that interesting statement that it would be
unbecoming and immoral to see a woman
instructed in the nature and laws of her or-
ganization. Now, in the United States
alone, there are seven medical colleges for
women, besides the men’s colleges to which
she is admitted. Over seven thousand are
practicing physicians and surgeons, and the
reasons for and against such things are
being forgotten in the light of their actual
worth. 
	And what has brought about these changed
conditions? Latter-day Saints will answer,
“The light and knowledge that comes with
the Gospel dispensation.” Many intelligent
spirits were appointed to come to earth to
illumine the dark places, and to lift the bur-
den of tradition and false doctrine, which so
long has hung like a dense cloud over our
race. And how faithfully many have labored,
with untiring energy and wonderful intelli-
gence to accomplish good for mankind. I
shall not attempt in this article to write of
women of our Church. I shall leave that
for an abler pen than mine. 
	I shall, however, give a very brief sketch
of some ef the prominent women of our na-
tion. We notice that in every case their
birth occurred a short time after that of the
Prophet Joseph Smith’s.
	Prominent among writers and speakers
are:


[Column 1]
Frances E. Willard,	Born in	1832.
Louisa M. Alcott,		“	1854. 
Harriet Beecher Stowe,	“	1819.
Julia Ward Howe,		“	1819.
The latter was a writer of wonderful power.
She wrote “Marching On,” which became
the battle hymn of the republic. Her “Stir-
ring Appeal to Womanhood,” is pronounced
the ablest Peace Manifesto ever written, and
has been translated into French, German,
Italian and Swedish. Notwithstanding the
fact that Mrs. Howe had the intellectual
powers generally looked for in the male sex,
she lost none of her womanly nature. She
writes “The world looks to women and de-
pends upon them for its moral and spiritual
advancement.” Their release from wornout
traditions as to the sphere-of woman has
broadened their horizon and increased their
ambition to live higher lives of morality and
intellectuality.
	Elizabeth Cady Stanton, who was born
in 1815, called the first woman’s rights con-
vention in 1848. And in that first year
succeeded in getting the “Married Woman’s
Property Bill,’ passed.
	Clara Barton, who was born in 1825, was
the first woman to hold a regular clerical
position under the government.
	Elizabeth Stuart Phelps Ward, who was
born in 1844, was a descendant from the
Mayflower company. Here are a few of her
own words: “Not until the few last decades
has woman been permitted to rise to the
full measure of her capacity for usefulness.
Formerly her activity was confined to the
sphere of her own home, and public opin-
ion condemned, as unseemly, her ap-
pearance in public, or her active participa-
tion in enterprises outside of her do-
mestic circle. A change has been
wrought and within the last half century
there has been a multitude of women whose
acheivements for the uplifting of the race
have commanded the affectionate admira-
tion of mankind.”
	Last, but by no means least, on my list,
is the name of Susan B. Anthony, who was
born February 15, 1820. She came of good
and upright parents. Her father was a
Quaker and her mother a Baptist. Her
father had been reprimanded by the Quaker
authorities for marrying a Baptist and for
wearing a comfortable cloak. He was fin-
ally expelled for allowing a room in his
house to be used for the instruction of his
children. Though a wealthy cotton manu-
facturer, he desired that his children should
be trained for professions. His daughters
were prepared in the best private schools
for teaching, which was the only vocation
open to women. At the age of eighteen
Susan became a private teacher in a Quaker
family, at one dollar a week and board.
When the financial crash of 1837 came, it
carried with it Mr. Anthony’s wealth, and
his wisdom in fitting his children for an
emergency was clearly proved. They were
all teaching and were of great assistance to
him in his distress. Susan was successful
to a marked degree, and devoted fifteen
years to the work. She was an active
member of the New York teacher’s associa-
tion, and made many effectual appeals for
higher salaries in the profession, and for
equal rights and equal compensation for
women, in all its honors, labors and
responsibilities. Lady teachers are in-
indebted to Miss Anthony for much
of the improved conditions of later
years. There can be no doubt but that Miss
Anthony was born for the work of a reform-
er and a philanthropist. She may have in-

[Column 2]
herited much of a lofty nature and patriotic
tendency, yet heridity is not all. There
are men and women born into the world at
certain periods of time for a distinctive
purpose, with a mission to fulfill for their
fellowmen. Their pathway is not smooth
for them. They are pioneers through new
fields of advancement, the pathfinders to
growth and culture, possessing the attributes
of faithful endurance and steadfastness.
	Miss Anthony early became interested in
temperance. In 1852, she organized a
woman’s temperance league, the first in the
country. Mrs. Stanton was its president
and Miss Anthony was secretary. In the
same year she was sent by the Daughters of
Temperance at Albany, to a state mass
meeting of the Sons of Temperance. Dur-
ing a discussion among the men she arose
to speak, but was not allowed to do it. The
women present were horrified and indig-
nant, and called her “the bold thing.” The
president of the meeting, with all the digni-
ty he could command informed her that
women were not expected to speak in meet-
ings, but only to be spectators. He meant
to settle the question forever, but the re-
buke acted like a firebrand to one of
Susan’s temperament. She marched out of
the hall, half a dozen others following, to
the residence of Lydia Mott, a cousin of
Lucretia Mott, where they held an indigna-
ation meeting. It was during these years
ot active work that Miss Anthony deter-
mined to work for greater freedom for
women, and decided that in order to suc-
ceed they must have the privilege of the
franchise. She allied herself with the suf-
frage movement, leaving other reforms
largely to her co-workers.
	It would be difficult for our young people
of today to realize the conditious of society
and the primitive educational advantages
at the time of Miss Anthony’s girlhood.
The changes wrought since then are mar-
velous and much credit is due this brave
woman, who had the courage to face the sit-
uation and stand boldly for the defense of
education for girls and equal privileges for
both sexes. Almost alone and unaided at
times she heralded truths with which her
understanding was quickened, even though
they were unacceptable. She, years ago,
plowed the rough way, and sowed the seed
that has taken deep root, and has sprung
up here and there, eventually, to bear
good fruit. At a state teachers’ convention
in Rochester, in 1853, Miss Anthony
claimed the privilege of speaking. There
were many women teachers present, but
none of them had a word to offer. The
question under discussion was why is the
profession of teaching not so much re-
spected as that of lawyers, doctors, and
ministers. A lively debate followed. Miss
Anthony’s request to be heard was at last
granted She said: “Mr. President and
Gentlemen: Do you not see that so long
as society says woman has not the brains
to be a lawyer, a preacher or a doctor
but has sufficient brains to be a teacher,
that every man of you who condescends
to teach school actually acknowledges that
he has no more brains than a woman?”
	There was no great reform advanced for
the uplifting of humanity in which she was
not actively interested. To the very last
she strongly advocated co-education. She
prepared and read a paper in Troy, New
York, in 1856, that called forth from the
ablest members of the convention their
views on the question. Mr. Hazaltine said:
“While I admit the power and talent of

[Column 3]
your retort, I would rather see a daughter of
mine buried beneath the sod than to stand
before a promiscuous audience and utter
such sentiments.” Superintendent Randall
replied. “And I should be proud if I had a
daughter able to do it.” In the winter of
1861 she planned a series of meetings to
begin at Buffalo, New York. Whenever
Miss Anthony and her little band appeared,
they were hissed, mobbed, and their voices
drowned with cries and groans. Ruffians
swore, turned off the gas, took possession
of the platform, and offered every kind of
indignity but she went on with her plans.
To relate how she went from door to door
to secure signatures to petition for the ballot
and equal rights for women, would be too
long a story. At all times she has been a
conspicuous figure, and in later years, she
has received great honors in America and
foreign lands. Above all else she has won
the true love of the people wherever she
was known. In 1871 Miss Anthony, in
company with Mrs. Stanton, crossed the
continent to California, and in passing, vis-
ited Salt Lake City. They lectured in the
old tabernacle in that place.
	When years later on, our delegates from
the National Relief Society and Young
Ladies’ Mutual Improvement Association
went to the National Council of Women
held in Washington, Miss Anthony received
them in a manner which won the love and
admiration of them all. In speaking of,
her life she herself says that her work has
been like subsoil plowing to prepare the
ground for cultivation by women who are
reaping the benefits of fuller opportunities
and higher education. She died at the ad-
vanced age of 86 years (March 17, 1906).
The world is richer and better because of
the beautiful lives and examples of those
prominent characters that we have been dis-
cussing. And while we are blessed in the
enjoyment of twentieth century privileges,
let us not forget that we owe to such char-
acters as I have mentiond, our gratitude
and homage for what they have done.
			SAREPTA E. COWLES.
Ogden First Ward, March 17, 1908.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


KEEP THE SABBATH DAY HOLY.
(Continuation from No. 3, page 24.)
	Then our cattle, have we any right to
make our beasts of burden, minister to our
pleasure, by violating the laws of God upon
his holy day? The Savior told the Pharisees
in his day, that “the Sabbath was made for
man and not man for the Sabbath,” showing
that in cases of extreme necessity we may do
things which at other times would be unlaw-
ful, but in riding out in our carriages upon
the Sabbath day we desecrate the day and
are responsible also for our cattle, who can-
not help themselves.
	I have known people in other churches,
who have been strict observers of the Sab-
bath day, and who have remarked upon our
careless observance of it, and I have been
obliged to say, that no true Latter-day Saint
was thus careless.
	Now I come to what in my opinion is the
underlying cause of the lack of a proper ob-
servance of the Sabbath day, as well as the
cause of many other serious evils, which are
abroad in our midst, and which has been the
cause of the ruin of many of our sons and
fair daughters, viz. too much liberty.
	It is remarked by many people, and espe-
cially those from the old countries that the
freedom from restraint of our children is
appalling!


This no doubt in most instances, is the
result of mistaken kindness on the part of
parents or guardians and on the part of those
who would like to govern their children in
accordance with the requirements of the
gospel, the condition is forced upon them,
by their too careless neighbors, who by their
conduct not only utterly ruin their own off-
spring, but by their contact, precept and ex-
ample and that of their children, bring ruin
upon the sons and daughters of their un-
fortunate friends and neighbors, and it seems
to me that the only remedy is the conversion
of the parents, to the knowledge, of their
strict accountability to which they will be
held in a final judgment day by God our
eternal Father, or as it were, by “laying the
ax on the root of the tree,” and in those who
do realize their position as “moulders of the
minds of men,” insisting in unmistabable
terms, upon strict obedience to parental
authority mildly but firmly administered,
and that parents themselves should look
upon it as a sacred duty to meet together
and partake of the emblems of the broken
body, and spilled blood, of our slain Re-
deemer, our elder brother, who freely gave
his life that we might live, as our Father has
commanded on that holy day. That we may
manifest our faith in his promises, wherein
He promises, that the “fullness of the earth
shall be ours.” For if we keep not the law,
how can we claim the blessing? I feel that
we as members of the Relief Society which
was established by our beloved prophet so
many years ago, for the purpose, as he said,
of not only caring for the poor and the needy,
“but for the saving of souls,” should be not
only exemplars, but reminders, and helpers
to those who are weak, young mothers for
instance, who perhaps stay at home so long
with their young families that it becomes a
habit, and under some circumstances a po-
sitive necessity, with cross babies, and no
mother, sister, or friend to leave them with
if we love our neighbor as ourselves, we will
some times take the place of the overburden-
ed mother, in the care of her children for an
afternoon, or evening and let her go to the
house of prayer, where she may become re-
freshed and her faith strengthened and re-
newed. We who are old in the gospel, sure-
ly need not be afraid if we should miss a
meeting once in awhile, to give an opportun-
ity to another to enjoy the privilege which
we enjoy so constantly that we would lose
the faith, because we should be, “not hear-
ers of the word alone, but doers of it too,”
and should we not have our reward for so
doing, in seeing the renewed interest with
which the tired mother would take up her
labors in her household, and the renewed
determination to live nearer to the Lord?
and as “sacrifice brings forth the blessings
of heaven” so will we receive of the blessings
of the holy spirit, as a reward, for a duty
performed. For do we not desire the salva-
tion of all of our Father’s children? and if
we are not all called to go to the nations of
the earth to preach the gospel, let us not
neglect any opportunity to spread the same
at home, both, by precept and example,
that we may indeed be the children of God,
and receive of the blessings which he has
promised to those who would go to the house
of prayer.
			CAROLINE C. R. WELLS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Miss Ethel Arnold and Mrs. Turner, two
sisters of Mrs. Humphry Ward, are as strong-
ly in favor of woman suffrage as she is op-
posed to it.


[Column 1]
			LAVENDER.
		BY ETHEL WEBLING.
	As I walk along a crowded street with the
sun reflected and thrown up from the pave-
ment the dust glittering and dancing in the
light; an added warmth and fragrance steals
around me like a cloud of white mist and
changes again into pale purple breaking into
softest green. Then spikes of summer bloom
rise up and the murmurous sound of bees
and the heat and fragrance of incense fills
the air.
	I pass through the door of an old house
and into a room where on a big chest rests
a black and gold lacquered tray filled with
lavender drying in the sunlight. I see oak
chairs of ample size, dark with age and pol-
ished with use and I notice that the shutters
of the long casement window have in each a
a little hole, cut like a heart, to let the light
through.
	The house dates from the XVIth century,
but the solid oak beams and some of the
stone work had been used in a building two
or three hundred years before. The walls,
upheld by the wood, have a strange music
in them, they vibrate to the voice and foot-
steps on the floor. There is a throbbing
silence in that house, it swells into volumes
of sound of all the immemorial years. The
beams still hold the music of the living oaks
and all the wild birds that nested in the
deep shade of their branches. After the
song of birds and other sounds of nature
there is the whisper and record of all the
human lives that have been discussed in the
great ingle nook. For years the house was
an inn, and how many men as they sat
around the hearth on the big oak settle,
sheltered from the draught and cold were
cheered by the imprisoned sunlight set free
in the flame and glowing embers of the
wood fire.
	The shelf running round the room near
the ceiling, with old lustre ware and pewter
standing on it, like the beams knows no
touch of plane, they were leveled by the ax
alone and the hand that wielded it swung
into the rhythm of nature. The sturdy
knot that marked a new branch spreading
out to the light, the surprise and pleasure of
the uneven line, is still the record of the
great tree’s growth, the builder builded bet-
ter than he knew, receptive to the propor-
tion, the harmony and contrast of the living
tree by whose strength the house still lives
and shelters life.
	The back of the house is like a dream of
summer. There is the red roof with its great
slant and rich color, only broken by the
dormer window and quaint chimnies, the
green painted barrels for rain water, and the
deep well that is known for miles around.
The court yard is half paved with red brick,
half with old flag stones and separated from
the garden by a border of delphiniums,
sweet peas, carnations and pansies. The
heart of the garden is a great pear tree that
in the springtime, with its wealth of white
blossoms, reminds one of snow-capped
mountains.
	All the paths radiate from the pear tree,
one leading to a magic circle where herbs

[Column 2]
grow—sweet thyme, marjoram, rosemary,
rue, callamint, bitter-sweet, and many more
whose virtues were well known in past days
when they were gathered in their proper
mystic hour; another to a gate that opens
on to fairie land—a deep pond bordered by
tall flowering reeds, ever swaying in the wind
where the busy Tits work and play the
whole day long.
	All the paths are laid with flint stones
that in their strange, uneven shapes seem
like the characters of an old rune, and the
strong self-sown seeds spring up between
the stones, for him who reads the rune
aright they burst into a wilderness of flow-
ers.
	A few weeks ago, the rose and the honey-
laden scent of the broad bean blossom filled
the air—in a little while it will be the ripe
fruits of autumn—plums, peaches and
apples—but today the lavender is being cut
and the winds are laden with its perfect
sweetness, the burning incense rises as I
stand in the loveliest garden in Kent—no, it
is a London street, but I see the spikes of
purple flower and hear a girl’s voice cry—
	“Lavender! Penny a bunch! Sweet
lavender!”


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY
LADIES’ READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
TRY US


NOTES AND NEWS.
	“Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, the President
of the International Woman’s Suffrage As-
sociation will sail for Europe on Feb. 13.
	The woman suffrage bill has been defeat-
ed in the Vermont Senate, but by so narrow
a margin that a change of three votes would
have carried it. In the Vermont Constitu-
tional Convention held in 1870, woman suf-
frage received only one vote.”
	Governor John C. Cutler of Utah writes to
the Boston Woman’s Journal:
	“Woman suffrage has been most success-
ful as a practical expedient in Utah. In
fact, it is no longer an expedient, but an in-
tegral part of our civil life. Politics has
been benefited by the refining influence of
women; and, instead of being unsexed or de-
based, the women have been broadened and
bettered intellectually and socially through
the study and practice of civic affairs entail-
ed by the franchise. 
	“Politically, the influence of woman suf-
frage has been on the side of peace at the
polls and the selection of better officials, re-
sulting in a higher honesty of administra-
tion. Socially, it has resulted in a more
chivalrous regard for women, and an un-
questioned acknowledgment of their equal-
ity with men, and consequently their right
of participation in affairs of State. With the
experience Utah has had, we should not
think for a moment of returning to the male
suffrage system. 
	“As to the probability of the expansion of
woman suffrage into other States, I can
merely say that every State ought to adopt
it. Doubtless all of them will in time, but
progress in this direction will necessarily be
gradual, because it involves the overcoming
of great and deep seated prejudice.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 37. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH, 1909. No. 6.


CONTENTS.
										PAGE
Reminiscenses of Nauvoo........Louisa Decker	41
General Conference Relief Society................	42
Mary Alice Cannon. A Tribute...................
	........................Annie Wells Cannon		43
Mrs. Standring Passes 81st Year...................		43
Obituaries..................................................		46
Relief Society Stake Reports: Granite—Alpine
	Davis.................................................		46
Burial Customs in England......L. D. Alder		48
Editorial:—Relief Society Conference...........	44
	The New President.............................		44
	In Memoriam of Annie Taylor Hyde....		44
	Social Hall Parties.............................		45
Poetry:—Prohibition...........Ellis R. Shipp...		41
	Some Time................May Riley Smith		43


PROHIBITION.
Did you say you did not favor prohibitions’ cause?
That you would oppose such measure as a statute
	of our laws?
Stop to think! Oh hear the echoes ringing still
	from age to age,
Wails of anguish, cries of hunger, themes of poet,
	priest and sage.

Could you see the midnight vigils anxious wives
	and mothers keep,
See them kneeling, praying, pleading—see the
	little children weep—
Calling for the husband—father—hoping for his
	near return,
Yet they’re almost fearing—dreading that for
	which they wildly yearn.

Oh the direful,dreadful vision of a man with reason
	gone,
Once the type of noble manhood—Now we see
	him stagger on,
Blear-eyed, dark distorted features, rambling
	speech, and shambling gait—
Ah you turn away and shudder, with the thought
	of such a fate.

Still we see this picture daily in this land of free-
	dom’s pride,
This and still more sad conditions- poverty and
	crime beside.
Greatest sins of every nation have their origin in
	drink—
Drink that kills a man’s best impulse, brings him
	to destructions brink.

Brightest thought and judgment darkened, use-
	fulness and manhood flown,
All that made him loved and honored, ’ere the
	demon drink he'd known.
Then arouse, awake each nation, every town and
	city hear.
Let the cause of prohibition spread its banner
	far and near.

That no more the eyes of childhood may behold
	such wretched sight,
Let the force of man’s example ere impel the
	course of right.
Let the earth consume such fluid once for all—
	and never more
Mingle with the blood of mortal, ring these words
	from shore to shore.
Temperance and Prohibition! abstinence from
	habits vile.
Bringing freedom, peace and plenty, making
	earth and heaven smile.
						Ellis R. Shipp.


“The women of Columbus, Ind., have start-
ed a petition to Mrs. Taft to follow the ex-
ample set by Mrs. Rutherford B. Hayes in
the White Hause not to allow intoxicating
liquors to be served there. Mrs. Taft is
quoted as saying that, though her husband
did not use wine, she would allow it on the
table, as it had been the custom.”


[Column 1]
REMINISCENSES OF NAUVOO.

Written by Louisa Decker for the Exponent.

	My parents David and Louisa Norris were
born in the state of New York; when they
married moved to the state of New Jersey,
where their four children were born.
	About 1837 a traveling Elder, Ball by name
held a meeting at their house the subject be-
ing of faith, repentance and baptism. My
mother lay sick in the back room listening,
and was so convinced of the truth that shs
asked to be administered to and was bap-
tized in a river where the ice was cut away
to perform the ceremony, that restored her
to perfect health. She was wrapt in a quilt
oyer her wet clothes and rode a mile home,
changed her clothing, and cooked dinner for
the Elder and her family.
	This testimony I have heard her repeat
several times. My father did not join the
Church at this time, but a short time after
my eldest brother Nathaniel had taken a
severe cold and was becoming very deaf;
mother being of great faith sent for Brother
Ball and asked him to administer to my
brother; when he arrived he said Sister Nor-
ris do you have faith that he will be healed?
she answered certainly we have those pro-
mises. Then he repaired to the woods back
of the house evidently to seek the Lord in
prayer. Returning in about an hour he ad-
ministered to my brother, who was immedi-
ately healed and was never afflicted after-
wards. Then my father joined the Church,
sold his possessions and started to join the
Saints; got as far as Kirtland when the baby
sickened and died; which detained them so
late that he thought best to stay over one
year and work at his trade blacksmithing.
There he loaned out his money and failing
to get it, we were kept back two more years
which was a great worry to my parents, as
they had started for Missouri and a great
part of those left in Kirtland were weak in
the faith, or had left the Church altogether.
The last year we were there 1841 and 42 we
lived in the house of our Prophet Joseph
Smith near the Temple. My brother Nath-
aniel and sister Mary had been baptized. Just
before we left there I now being eight years
old I was baptized. The Saints had now
settled in Nauvoo at which place we arrived
in 1842; father built a house and blacksmith
shop on corner of Parley and Granger Street
near, the homes of many of the leading mem-
bers of the Church, and three blocks from
the Prophet’s home thus he was blest at last
to associate with the tried and true; he join-
ed the Quorum of the Seventies, also the
Nauvoo Legion and became one of Brother
Joseph’s body guard. Mother joined the
Relief Society, Emma Smith being presi-
dent; we now had an opportunity to get well
acquainted with the Prophet and his family.
My sister and I went to school with his chil-
dren in the new seventy’s hall a block west
of our house (the teacher named Kelsey
boarding at our house).
	The Temple was being built and each one
seemed to desire to help, and many sold
things that they could scarcely spare to put
the means towards the building. I can re-
member of my mother selling her China

[Column 2]
dishes and fine bed quilt, to donate her part.
	About this time there began a spirit of
apostaoy among a few that had been the
Prophet’s trusted friends, and with the ill
feeling of the out side influence caused him
much sorrow and this bitter feeling grew,
urged on by our Missouri enemies. There
was a paper started to keep the bitter feel-
ing s tirred up something after the style of
the “Tribune” here. It became necessary
to keep night watchmen out to prevent a
surprise or an assassination, there were false
charges gotten up to get possession of the
Prophet and take him away from his friends
which was finally accomplished as is well
known by all.
	The Nauvoo Legion wished to go with
him but in his last talk with them; he said
brethren stay at home and also said “I go
as a Lamb to the slaughter.” Brothers Hy-
rum Smith, John Taylor, and Willard Rich-
ards and some others accompanying him on
the way going with him; the Church history
records the dreadful tragedy; my father was
on guard that night, he came in early in the
morning with the sad news, that caused the
greatest sorrow and mourning ever felt
throughout the city.
	There was no breakfast eaten in our home
that morning before the burial of Brother
Joseph and his brother Hyrum; the Saints
had the privilege of passing through the
Mansion house and taking a last sad look at
them.And when I saw where the bullet
had pierced the face of Brother Hyrum that
had caused his death it made a lasting im-
pression on me that I never can forget; the
burial soon followed using great caution as
there were spies on the watch to betray. I
go sometimes and listen to the trusted old
man that dug the graves at night, he is still
living among us and his face lights up with
joy when he says “and I never told a living,
soul” until asked by one having authority,
“Where was my father buried?” he also told
me he was drummer in the Nauvoo Legion
and cut stone on the Nauvoo Temple.
	Not satisfied yet those opposed to us be-
gan a series of persecutions; also a great
apostacy took place and jealousy arose as to
who should lead the Church. Sidney Rig-
don, Lyman Wight and Strang had their
followers but when a meeting was called
and Brigham Young arose and spoke with
power, it was as if the Prophet Joseph’s very
voice spoke through him. I heard my father
and mother when they returned from meet-
ing testify to this, and many others since
then. I believe it was the largest attended
meeting ever held in Nauvoo. So many
among us now drawing away from the
Church and the opposition from outside made
very trying times for us and a night guard
had to be kept. My father and many of the
Nauvoo Legion were called to this duty.
Father working at his trade through the day
and standing guard at night. Now com-
menced a system of getting up false charges
against our leading members to have them
arrested, to take them away as they had done
our Prophet and often they were seen by the
guard prowling around the homes of the
Apostles until it was not safe to stay in their
own homes.


There were an old couple named Simons
living across the street from us that made
them welcome in their up stairs rooms.
 *	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
	Now the necessary preparations were
being made for the journey west. The
Twelve and others that were in the greatest
danger from outside influence going first.
Those staying aiding in helping them. This
was father’s busy time the blacksmithing
being in great demand. He worked on a
good part of the 42 wagons that carried the
first company out; working early and
as late as ten o’clock at night. Mother stay-
ing up to get father an extra supper and then
going on guard in his turn. The Temple
being partly finished in the winter of 1846
the work there was being hurried through.
My father, mother, brother and sister re-
ceived the ordinances. My sister was mar-
ried to John Murdock and journeyed with
his people westward.
	All this time the persecutions never abat-
ed. Men that had work outside of city
limits were caught and unmerciful whipt.
One night Uncle Phineas Young and his son
B. H. Young came late at night to our
house, said they were riding with a brother
that was coming in with his team. They
saw some of these desperadoes hurrying
after them. They run and hid in the grass
but were near enough to see the man with
the team caught stript tied to his wagon
wheel and whipt until his groans ceased
when he fainted. They then crawled through
the grass until a safe distance to run. This
is only one of the cruel things that was hap-
pening right along on the out skirts of town.
Women and helpless children were carried
from a sick bed and laid on the ground
while their house and goods were burned.
Wheat, haystacks and barns were burned
and the cattle driven off. Many families
that had depended on their land for a living
had to come into the city for protection. I
have watched the smoke arise and knew
more homes were being burned. Companies
and single families were crossing the river
all summer camping on the other side or
pursuing their journey west. Some getting
work to feed their families, a few were stay-
ing hoping to sell for a little. There were
some strangers coming into secure cheap
homes. I think my father sold his five
roomed house for a yoke of oxen but do not
know as his records and the account of the
work he did in helping the brethren off (for
they were in no condition to pay at that
time) the papers were lost at winter quarters,
but all those debts were later forgiven.
	Later on about the first of August, 1846,
father was ready to start on his journey. By
this time the mobbing and driving every Mor-
mon out of the city was the plan of our ene-
mies. Father felt it his duty to stay, saying
he could not desert his brethren in their great
need. And when hundreds of the mob came
with their guns and cannons and camped near
the city, our people gathered there men and
boys and camped out making ready to resist
the enemy that so greatly out numbered them,
that it looked like almost a hopeless task,
when camped out about a week, there were
some musket shots fired and cannon shot
off at our people. Saturday they moved up
to close range, then there was a hard fought
battle so near that we could see clouds of
smoke arise and hear the roar of cannon
while listening I counted 72 cannon shots
fired, not realizing that one of these shots
had deprived us of a kind father’s care but
the news was already on the way and my

[Column 2]
mother’s cry of anguish was bo distressing
that the messenger, a strong man, wept.
We never knew how many of the enemy
were taken off. Our people lost three, Brother
Anderson and son. My father David Norris
was instantly killed by a cannon ball. The
late Henry Grow stood by his side and when
the order came to them to march to the
front of a field where the enemy had
started to come in back of our people and
surround them cutting off a chance of retreat.
Henry Grow was walking in father’s foot-
steps. In telling me this he said one step
more and it would have been him. Providence
calls one and leaves another. Later in the
day a flag of truce was carried over and a
treaty made that all that did not renounce
their religion should cross the river in three
days. Should stack their guns and ammuni-
tion in the Temple. And they came Mon-
day and took possession of the city and
searched the houses to see there were no weap-
ons hidden. Father’s body was brought home
at dusk. My brother was released from duty,
we had not seen him for a week, he lay down
in mother’s room up stairs. Mother had been
in poor health most of the summer and was
now prostrated with grief. My little brother
Benjamin, five years old, had cried himself
to sleep. This left me alone down stairs
with the dead. A tallow candle for light,
the blood dripping, dripping from the body all
night and lay on the bare floor in a puddle.
My brother before he lay down to rest said
he expected two men to come for the night,
but they were called away on duty. The
city was guarded to keep from being sur-
prised. We knew by sad experience the
enemy could not be trusted. My brother
said if I heard the horn blow or bells ring-
ing to call him that would be the signal that
the mob were coming. Once the horn blew
but it was a false alarm, I did not call him,
I thought he had done his part. He was in
his 17th year and I was 12 years old and a
very timid child, and the night was lonely.
I, only going to the foot of the stairs to
speak to mother a time or two, a man came
in the morning with team and a hasty made
coffin, in which he was laid, wrapt in a
sheet. There was no time to make a robe
nor any one to make it. My mother still
bed fast was left with her little boy. While
the funeral procession, consisting of Brother
Nathaniel, myself and a Brother Coulay fol-
lowed the wagon to the grave just west of
the Temple, a short prayer was said and his
body was laid to rest.	
		(To be continued.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
GENERAL CONFERENCE RELIEF SOCIETY.

FOUR MEETINGS TO BE HELD IN THIS CITY
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY, APRIL 2 AND 3, 1909.

Annie Taylor Hyde Memorial Services feat-
	ure of Friday afternoon in Assembly Hall.

	A two day’s conference of the Relief Soci-
ety will be held in this city on Friday and
Saturday, April 2 and 3, preceding the
General Conference of the Church. In all,
four meetings will be held, the first, second
and fourth in the Assembly Hall, and the
third in the Fourteenth Ward Hall. Fol-
lowing is the program of the various ses-
sions:

ASSEMBLY HALL, FRIDAY, APRIL 2, 10 A. M.
	Opening hymn, “The Morning Breaks,”—
P. P. Pratt.
	Opening prayer, Mary A. C. Lambert.

[Column 2]
	Norwegian hymn—Agnes Olson Thomas.
	Greeting—President Bathsheba W. Smith.
	Address of Welcome—Secretary Emme-
line B. Wells.
	Response — Counselor Matilda Smith,
Pocatello, Idaho.
	Address, ‘‘Our Relations with the Nation-
al Council of Women—Treasurer Clarissa
Smith Williams.
	Violin Solo—Willard Weihe, John J.
McClellan, accompanist.
	Soprano solo, “Ave Marie,” Mascagni—
Nellie Druce Pugsley, accompanied by Wil-
lard Weihe.
	A sketch of the life of Jane S. Richards—
Emily S. Richards.
	Hymn, "O my Father;” Eliza R. Snow—
Congregation.
	Prayer—Elizabeth S. Wilcox.

	AFTERNOON SESSION.

Annie Taylor Hyde Memorial Services,
	Organ solo—Edna Coray.
	Hymn, “A poor wayfaring man of grief—
Congregation.
	Invocation—Emma S. Woodruff.
	Duet, “Come Holy Spirit,” Wiegaud—
Stella and Minnie Poulton. 
	Tribute to Annie Taylor Hyde—Julia P.
M. Farnsworth.
	Address—Sarah Jane Cannon.
	Contralto solo, “Rock of Ages,”—Hous-
ley—Alice Webley.
	In Memoriam—Carrie S. Thomas.
	Soprano solo, “Who Are These Arrayed
in White—Lizzie Thomas Edward.
	Hymn, “How firm a foundation”—Con-
gregation.
	Benediction—Susan Grant.

		SATULDAY, 10 O’CLOCK, APRIL 3.
	Officers’ meeting Fourteenth ward hall,
	Hymn, “Tho’ Deep’ning trials throng
your way.”
	Prayer—Sarah F. M. Taylor, Ogden
Stake.
	Solo, “At Eventime,” Marks—Mary Katz.
	Reports.
	Questions.
	Outlines for mothers’ work; instructions
by Ida S. Dusenberry.
	Finance—membership—instructions by
Treasurer C. S. Wiiliams.
	Nurse class; instructions Phebe Y. Beatie.
	Hymn, “Lord dismiss us.”
	Prayer—Minnie Horne James.

		AFTERNOON, ASSEMBLY HALL.

	Hymn, “Love at Home”—Congregation.
	Prayer—Harriet B. Harker.
	Hymn, “Our mountain home so dear,”
words by E. B. Wells, music by Prof. Evan
Stephens—Congregation.
	Address, Compensation, Counselor Ida
S. Dusenberry.
	Subject, Compensation—Dr. Margaret C.
Roberts.
	Organ Solo, (a) First Movement of Organ
Third Guilmant; (b) “Solitude,” Godard—
Tracy Young Cannon.
	Discussion—Compensation—Annie Wells
Cannon and Counselor Mae T. Nystrom, of
of the Y. L. M. I. A. 
	Solo, “With Verdure Clad,” Haydn —
Lizzie Thomas Edward.
	Address, “Music in the Home—Evan
Stephens.
	Hymn, “Come, let us anew,”—Congrega-
tion. Benediction, Alice Merrill Horne.
	Musical director, Lizzie Thomas Edward.
Organist, Edna Coray.
	Please bring Hymn Books?


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SOME TIME.
	Elder O. F. Whitney recited this poem with
deep feeling at the funeral of Sister Mary Alice
Cannon, March 5, 1909.

Some time, when all life’s lessons have been
		learned,
	And suns and stars forevermore have set,
The things which our weak judgments here have
		spurned,
	The things o’er which we grieved with lashes
		wet,
Will flash before us and life’s dark night,
	As stars shine most in deeper tints of blue;
And we shall see how all God’s plans were right,
	And what most seemed reproof was love most
		true:

And we shall see how, while we frown and sigh,
	God’s plans go on as best for you and me—
How when we called, He heeded not our cry,
	Because His wisdom to the end could see;
And e’en as prudent parents disallow
	Too much of sweet to craving babyhood,
So God, perhaps, is keeping from us now
	Life’s sweetest things because it seemeth good.

And if, sometimes, commingled with life’s wine,
	We find the wormwood, and rebel and shrink,
Be sure a wiser hand than yours or mine
	Pours out this potion for our lips to drink;
And if some friend we love is lying low,
	Where human kisses cannot reach his face,
Oh, do not blame the loving Father so,
	But wear your sorrow with obedient grace!
And you shall shortly know that lengthened
		breath
	Is not the sweetest gift God sends His friend,
And that sometimes the sable pall of death
	Conceals the fairest boon His love can send;
If we conld push ajar the gates of life,
	And stand within, and all God’s workings see,
We could interpret all this doubt and strife,
	And for each mystery pould find a key.

But not today. Then be content, poor heart!
	God’s plans like lilies, pure and white unfold,
We must not tear the close-shut leaves apart,
	Time will reveal the Calyxes of gold;
And if, through patient toil, we reach the land
	Where tired feet with sandals loosed may rest,
Where we shall clearly know and understand,
]think that we shall say, "God knew the
		best.”
				MAY RILEY SMITH.


[Column 1]
	MARY ALICE CANNON.

		A TRIBUTE.

	“She was dead, no sleep so beautiful and
calm, so free from toil and pain, so fair to
look upon.”
	Without a struggle, without a throb, with-
out a sigh, the beautiful spirit of Mamie
Cannon passed into eternal life; so silently,
so softly, so sweetly, that even those who
waited breathlessly around could scarcely
tell when the heart stopped beating; and
when alas to their numbed senses the real-
ization came, grief was glorified with the
heavenly influence of so sweet a death.
	A lovelier, truer woman never lived than
Mary Alice Cannon, and her place in the
hearts of those who knew her, can never be
filled. Even as a little child she possessed
most womanly traits; and though strong in
character she was always yielding, obedient
and thoughtful as occasion demanded. She
was of a most lovable disposition, yet pos-
sessed the quality of a leader among her as-
sociates. It was to her, her friends would go
for sympathy when sorrow came to them,
and it was to her they would go to tell their
triumphs, for there was always in her heart
a responding and sympathetic chord for each
and every condition. She was a woman of
many talents, not the least among them her
exquisite wit and power of imitation—such
qualities as render conversation so delight-
ful; and her natural refinement and gentle-
ness were marked characteristics.
	On the morning of March the first she was
called home to her heavenly Father after an

[Column 2]
illness of less than three weeks—an illness
which only a few days before had not ap-
peared serious. We have to submit to the
inevitable, and with such a sublime faith as
she possessed, we must realize with her that
God knoweth best and doeth all things well;
and yet it is sometimes hard to understand
why one so needed here and so beloved
should be taken away.
	Mary Alice Cannon was the wife of Bishop
Lewis M. Cannon and the eldest daughter
of President George Q. Cannon and Elizabeth
Hoagland. She was born on the sixteenth
of October 1867. As a little girl she showed
the qualities of leadership, and her many
brothers were always proud to follow her ex-
ample and champion her cause in childish
warfare. She spent two seasons in Washing-
ton with her parents when President Cannon
was Utah’s delegate in Congress. She also
made many trips with her father, whom she
idolized, east and west, as well as accompany-
ing him in frequent trips throughout the
state. Her mother died when Mamie, as we
love to call her, was only fourteen years old
and the circumstances were most pathetic,
for her father was absent in Washington
contending for the rights of the people, and
her two older brothers, Jno Q., and Abram
were on missions in Europe. There were
three younger children left in her care, David,
Emily and Sylvester, and to them she has
always performed the part of mother and
sister too. Even after her marriage and the
making of another home, she still showed
the same thoughtfulness and tenderness to-
wards her brothers and sisters, and when her
brother David died while on his mission in
Germany, her grief was as great as a moth-
er’s could have been. She passed also the
trial of losing her first born, a beautiful boy,
named Lewmar; but through all her life she
showed noble and faithful resignation, and
lived the life of a consistent and true Latter-
day Saint.
	She has left, besides her sorrowing hus-
band and six beautiful children, who will al-
ways mourn her loss, many brothers and
sisters and loved ones and a host of friends
who will always cherish the memories of her
beautiful life. She was not inclined to public
life in any way but performed some loving
duties in the ward where her husband pre-
sides as bishop, having been a teacher in the
parents class in Sunday School, also coun-
selor to the president of the Ward Primary
Association. She acted with much ability
as the representative of the Stake Relief So-
ciety on a commitee for the betterment of the
young people, and she was a loyal member
of the society known as The Daughters of
the Revolution. Her natural tastes and sym-
pathies, however, were more in the home
circle, where she displayed all the virtues
and acquirements of a perfect wife and
mother.
			ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


The name of the Governor of Michigan
will head the national woman suffrage peti-
tion from that State.
	Miss Julia Marlow is a clever bookbinder.
When at her country place, Highmount, in
the Catskills, she spends much of her time
over bookbinders’ tools and machinery.
	Miss Meredith, daughter of George Mere-
dith, the novelist, stepped into the breach
in Harrowgate the other day and wielded
the baton as substitute for the conductor of
the municipal orehestra, one of the best in
England.


MRS. STANDRING PASSES 81st YEAR.

	Saturday, February 20th, 1909, being the
81st birthday of Mrs. Rebecca Standring,
Stake President of the Relief Society of
the Alpine Stake, it was decided by the four
wards of Lehi, that they would honor the
lady by celebrating the day in a good old-
fashioned ball, luncheon and program.
	The ladies of the four wards, with their
husbands and the Stake officers of the soci-
ty met at the opera house at three p. m.
and listened to the following program which
was given by the four wards:
	Mrs. E. J. T. Roberts, master of cere-
monies.
	1. Singing by the congregation, “We
thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.” 2. In-
vocation—Mary Ann Webb. 3. “Oh, my
Father.” 4. Address of welcome—Kate
Allred. 5. Remarks—President R. Stand-
ring.
	6. Duet—Mrs. Lucy Whitman and Mrs.
Margaret Clark. 7. Narrative of a visit of
a stranger—M. A. Sorensen.
	8. Singing: “Count your Blessings.”
	9. Reading—M. J. Gray. 10. Remarks,
—Bishop Gardner, 2nd ward. 11. Vocal
solo—Mrs. Harris Hill.
	12. Presentation of a silk down quilt by
the members of the four wards of Lehi and
the Stake officers to Sister Standring, by
Sister Hindley of Am. Fork, counselor to
Mrs. Standring.
	13. Piano solo, Jennie Webb.
	14. Remarks by Mrs, Standring.
	15. Singing, “Spirit of God.”
	16. Benediction—Wm. Southwick.
	Luncheon was served iu the opera house
until 6,30 p. m. when the ball opened and
was enjpyed by the old and the young who
participated in the old time quadrilles and
other dances of by-gone days.
	The following words were composed for
the occasion and sung by Mrs. Lucy Whit-
man and her sister, Mrs. Margaret Clark..

			MARGARET.	

	Down life’s hill you’re slowly wending,
		Past the heights you’ve toiled to climb;
	Light and shadow strangely blending,
		Checker all the vanished time,
	But no gloomy shadows ever
		Shut the light of love away,
	Still your heart is true and tender,
		Though the gold has turned to gray. 

	Sister, you were never dearer,
		In the spring of youth than now,
	When life’s winter eve draws nearer
		And its frost is on your brow,
	For the love that sweetiy blossomed,
		When your life was in its May,
	Now its precious fruit is bearing,
		While we reap it day by day.

	Dearest sister we have met here
		With hearts filled with gratitude,
	For the loving care and wisdom,
		For thy everlasting good.
	Though thy strength is slowly waning,
		Love is with you day by day,
	Pray that God will ever bless you, 
		And protect you on your way. 

	Dearest sister, don’t get weary. 
		For thy faith is staunch and true,
	And so many rely upon you
		For your help and ceunsel, too.
	God grant that you may have comfort,
		While you journey on your way, 
	That your life will be an Eden,
		In the world while you may stay.

	Eighty years and more have passed you,
		And you’ve toiled both brave and true,
	In the cause of Christ our Father,
		He hath given you much to do.
	We’ll strive to show our appreciation
		Of the work so grand and true,
	Each work out her own salvation, 
		As ’twas planned for us to do.


44		WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
Woman's Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, 1$.00; one copy six months, 50 cts:
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. - - March, 1909.


RELIEF SOEIETY CONFERENCE.
	The April Conference of the General Relief
Society will be held in Salt Lake City,
Assembly Hall, Friday and Saturday April
2 and 3, 1909; meetings commencing at 10
a. m. and 1 p. m.
	Saturday morning at 10 o’clock, an offic-
er’s meeting well be held in the Fourteenth
ward, at which all stake officers of the So-
ciety, who can are expected to be present.
	Saturday afternoon at 2 will be the clos-
ing meeting of the conference. It is desired
that there should be a representation from
every stake organization and a large attend-
ance of members.
	The General Authorities of the Church and
officers and members of the Y. L. M. I. A.
and Primary associations are cordially in-
vited to be present at the three conference
meetings in the Assembly Hall.
			BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
					General President.
			IDA SMOOT DUSENBERRY,
				Counselor.


THE NEW PRESIDENT.

	Out of the multitudinous events that have
recently transpired and occur from day to
day it is difficult to select the most impor-
tant, and one feels as if one line about each
would fill volumes of space. But in the
United States during the present month of
March 1909—there has taken place one event
of paramount significance to the people of
this great Republic. The inauguration of
the new President Wm. H. Taft whom all
Republicans and doubtless many Democrats
seem to recognize as the best representative
for that position of all the people of this
country, except may be a few who still seem
to regret Theodore Roosevelt would not run
for a third term.
	The writer is not familiar enough with the
public affairs of this great work of adminis-
tration of the President and Cabinet to give
an opinion, but judging from those who do
know a great deal of the business of this
mighty nation—we may look for wisdom
justice and prudence in the management of
all the grave questions that confront the
American people in these days of momen-
tous problems and magnificent triumphs the
world oyer: in advancement along the lines
of higher achievement with infinitely greater
advantages and power for controlling the
forces of nature and the elements that are
to be made the important factors in revolu-
tionizing the world of thought and activ-


ity. It will be for the well-being of America
to have confidence in the man who stands
at the head of the greatest interests of this
land of the free of which with great pride
Americans boast. Confidence and faith in
the integrity and magnanimity of the great
leader helps tho nation, as it helps in any
cause of great magnitude.
	It was a significant omen of good when
Mrs. Taft rode to the White House with her
husband after the inauguration and the Pre-
sident stepped into the Executive Mansion
with a woman on his arm; it was the first
occasion of such an incident, and it is a sign
of the times, and yet why should it seem
strange when the centuries passed have wit-
nessed the coronation of many women sover-
eigns in their own right.


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.
		ANNIE TAYLOR HYDE.
	We speak of the dear ones who have gone
from among the living as having passed to
the “beyond.” We know not just how to
express these things, and seemingly we try,
more or less in vain, to understand the mys-
tery of what we all term death.
	It is hard for those sorely tried to be com-
forted with the assurances of faith and hope
and after all only time can soften the in-
tense grief of an aching heart, bereft of
the nearest and dearest, and yet one
must believe all is well.

		“Beyond life’s trials and cares,
	Its hopes and joys, its miseries and sorrows,
	Its sleepless nights, its days of smiles and tears,
	Will be a long, sweet life unmarked by years,
		One bright, unending morrow.
	
		Beyond time’s troubled stream,
	Beyond the chilling waves of death’s dark river,
	Beyond life’s lowering clouds and fitful gleams,
	Its dark realities and brighter dreams—
		A beautiful forever.

		No aching hearts are there
	No forms by sickness wasted,
	No cheek grown pale by penury or care;
	No spirits crushed beneath the woes they bear,
		No sighs for bliss untasted.

		No sad farewell is heard,
	No lonely wail for loving ones departed,
	No dark remorse is there o’er memories stirred,
	No smile of scorn, no harsh or cruel word
		To grieve the broken-hearted.
	
		No long, dark night is there,
	No light from sun or silvery moon is given;
	But Christ, the Lamb of God all bright and
		fair,
	Illumes the city with effulgence rare,
		The glorious light of heaven!

		No mortal eye hath seen
	The glories of that land beyond the river
	Its crystal lakes, its fields of living green,
	Its fadeless flowers and the unchanging sheen
		Around the throne forever.

		Ear hath not heard the song
	Of rapturous praise within the eternal portal,
	No heart of man hath dreamed what joys be-
		long,
	To that redeemed and blood-washed happy
		throng,
		All glorious and immortal.”

	This poem seems to be particularly suited
to those who mourn the society of the most
beloved—a mother. There is no recompense
in this life except the thought of the greater
happiness of the higher life for the departed.
	What words are there however tender that
can soothe the pain that comes to those be-
reft of the dearest being on the earth, for
there is no one like a mother and no love
like Mother-Love.

[Column 2]
	Friends come with love and tenderness in
their souls and offer the balm of consolation,
bringing the best gifts they have to bestow,
but what does it avail? Such deep wounds
take time to heal, sometimes one thinks
’twere better not to speak, and yet that, too,
is cruel, and so we do our best to show our
love by kindly deeds, and sympathetic dem-
onstrations, to wipe away the tears of those
who mourn; the way is dark to them, as
they are blinded by tears, yet there is a
strong arm near to lean upon, a Guide who
never forsakes His own, his chosen ones, He
hears the cry of all who call on Him and
he will keep watch and ward.
	There is a great comfort in being near our
dear ones in the last trying hours, some-
times even that is not possible, to feel that
we have done all in our power to alleviate
pain, ministering with sweet words and
tenderness such as only loving hearts can
render, these blessings were given to Sister
Hyde in the long, tedious days and nights of
her lingering illness. Only those whose
love was surpassingly pure and uplifting
were near her; what a boon of comfort it
must have been, and she knew that hund-
dreds of her friends were praying for her re-
covery; praying she might live to accom-
plish all she desired. But death came and
set his seal upon her brow, and human
efforts were in vain to stay his hand. And
so finally she passed peacefully away.

	“O sweet is the slumber wherewith the King
		Hath caused the weary to rest!
	For sleeping they hear the angels sing,
		They lean on the Master’s breast.

	Sister Annie Taylor Hyde was an excep-
tionally bright and gifted and progressive
woman, she had in her girlhood all the ad-
vantages of a liberal education that the
schools and the Deseret University could
give at that period of time, and her home
life gave her rare opportunities. Her father,
President John Taylor, was a man of cul-
ture and scholarly attainments and took
great pains with his childrens’ education,
her mother, Sister Jane Ballantyne Taylor
was a genuine Scotch gentlewoman in its
true and best sense, and therefore Annie had
the excellent training in girlhood to prepare
her for the position of wife and mother, and
to step forward into the world of affairs, and
do an excellent public work. She had also
every advantage of religious training possi-
ble in the early days. One might say she
was thoroughly equipped for the mission
given her later in public life, by early asso-
ciation and discipline. She commenced as
a teacher in Sunday School at thirteen, and
afterwards taught for some time a private
school in connection with her sister, Sophia
Taylor Nuttall, and she had the best social
advantages the city of Salt Lake afforded
in those days. Occasionally she accompan-
ied her father on his preaching tours through
different parts of the state and this gave her
a wide experience among the people in var-
ious localities.
	Annie Taylor was born in Salt Lake City
October 21, 1849—and was married to
Alonzo E. Hyde on the 15th of December.
1870. The marriage ceremony was performed
by her father Apostle John Taylor.
	Her home was a pattern of exquisite
neatness and skilled housewifery, and she de-
veloped the best and truest characteristics of
motherhood in its fullest sense. Sister
Hyde had excellent taste in dress and in the
furnishing and adornment of her home, she
loved beautiful things in nature and in art,
and was especiaally fond of flowers, partic-
ularly delicate roses.


[Column 1]
	Sister Hyde was fond of travel and after
her marriage had opportunities to visit
many of the large cities East and West,
even before she had commenced a public
career; these trips of course, gave her
broader views and enlightenment upon his-
tory of cities and countries and the topics of
the times, and also widened her horizon.
	She went abroad with her husband in
1895, and traveled in England, her father’s
native land, and in Scotland (her mother’s
native home) also visited France, she was a
good observer and was able to converse in-
telligently of the most interesting, attract-
ive and historical scenes and places, and of
the beautiful in nature, as well as art. The
most celebrated cities, London, Paris and
Edinburgh, she thoroughly enjoyed and
could describe entertainingly, and those who
heard her speak in the “Reapers” after her
return home, were delighted with the graph-
ic description that she gave of the wonders of
the old world.
	Her first call to public duty after her
marriage, was when she was selected as
counselor to sister Hannah T. King Presi-
dent of the Y. L. M. I. A. of the Seventeenth
ward; she was at that time a young mother,
and in 1896 she was chosen by President
M. Isabella Horne to be first counselor in
the Relief Society in the Salt Lake Stake,
then including all Salt Lake County.
	In November 1901—when the General
Relief Society was reorganized after the de-
mise of its President, Zina D. H. Young,
she was elected First Counselor to the new
President, Sister Bathsbeba W. Smith, and
retained this position at the time she passed
away.
	April 11, 1901, she called together a few
of the daughters of the pioneers and effected
an organization on that day, the anniversary
of her mother’s birthday; she was elected
President and afterwards given the title of
Founder-General of the Daughters of the
Pioneers, a prosperous society which has its
headquarters in the historic Lion House.
During the period of time Sister Hyde has
held office in the General Relief Society as
First Counselor, she has visited Conferences
in nearly all of the Stakes of Zion, and
many of the missions, where there are
branches of the Relief Society, and has be-
come well known to the members, who will
mourn her loss to the society at large, and
to the sisters personally, who have very
gratefully appreciated her teachings and in-
structions, as also her smiling face, and
cheerful countenance, wherever she met with
them, or wherever she journeyed, whether
the ways were rough or smooth.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde has also represented
the Relief Society in the Triennial of the
National Council of Women of the United
States in Washington, and expected to be in
attendance as a speaker in the Quinquennial
of the International Council of the Women
of the world to be held in Toronto, Canada,
in June, 1909.
	She has been appointed on important
committees in the National Council, and
has held other positions of honor and trust.
	She has been one of the Salt Lake Tem-
ple workers for a number of years and gave
valuable service in the Bureau of Informa-
tion. She possessed in a marked degree
the qualities of leadership.
	In her own household she was recognized
as the sweetest, tenderest and most devoted
of mothers, yet requiring obedience from her
children, who were efficiently trained in the
principles of the Gospel and all needful
home instructions, as well as the graces and

[Column 2]
accomplishments to prepare them for the
exigencies of life.
	Brother and Sister Hyde had eight chil-
dren born to them, all still living, four boys,
and four girls, Alonzo E. Hyde, Jr., Orson
John Hyde, Harold and Gordon Hyde, the
two last are away filling missions, one in
Great Britain, the other in the Sandwich
Islands; the others are Laura, now (Mrs.
Joseph F. Merrill;) Edna, (Mrs. A. J.
Ridges) Beatrice, (Mrs. Rollin W. Dole) and
Miss Jean Hyde. Sister Hyde also leaves
thirteen grandchildren.
	During her illness of several months she
has displayed faith, courage and endurance
almost beyond belief; only surrendering to
the inevitable; in this she manifested her
great strength of character and power to do
battle with the enemy of all flesh.
	She has finished her work and her suffer-
ings are over, and she has gone to a haven
of rest and peace. It may well be said of her
“Her children rise up and call her blessed,
her husband also and he praiseth her.”
	Sister Annie Taylor Hyde passed peace-
fully away at her beautiful home opposite
the Temple in this city, on Friday, March
12, at 2:10 p. m.; her husband and children
were at her bedside, bowed in deepest grief,
sorrow and mourning.
	The funeral of Sister Hyde was held in the
Salt Lake Assembly Hall, Tuesday March, 12,
at 12 M. The services were conducted by Bish-
op F. S. Tingey of the Seventeenth Ward, and
present on the stand were Presidents John
R. Winder and Anthon H. Lund, Elders F.
M. Lyman, H. J. Grant, Hyrum M. and
George A. Smith, of the Apostles. The
stand and organ were draped in white, and
a life-sized picture of the deceased hung in
front of the organ. The floral offerings
were very lovely; and many of them deli-
cate and fragrant gifts from dear ones,
they quite covered the elegant white casket
and also the lower part of the stand.
	The opening hpmn rendered by the Tem-
ple choir was “O, my Father,” and President
Nephi L. Morris of the Salt Lake Stake
offered the prayer. Sister Lizzie Thomas
Edward sang exquisitely “Who are these
arrayed in white.”
	The speakers were Elder J. Golden Kim-
ball who referred to her many virtues and
brave endurance of trial, etc.
	Sister Alice Merrill Horne, who paid a
glowing tribute to her memory also her
noble character as a woman and a Saint,
and to her untiring devotion and profound
knowledge of Relief Society work.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith rejoiced
in the belief that she had gone in peace and re-
ferred to her integrity and faithfulness, said
she knew she would miss her in the Relief
Society.
	Charles R. Pike sang, “I know that my
Redeemer Liveth,” a favorite hymn of Sister
Heyde’s.
	Elder F. M. Lyman read from the Book
of Doctrine and Covenants, referring to the
condition of those who die, even where there
has been great exercise of faith manifest.
He said her time had come, She had done
her work and done it well. Said it was
proper that all should go when their work
was done. Spoke of the joys of the meeting
on the other side, and invoked God’s bless-
ing on the family.
	President John R. Winder said he could
imagine her father standing on the other
side waiting with outstretched arms to wel-
come his daughter, wbo had been a good
mother and faithful Latter-day Saint. He
remembered Annie and her sister Sophia

[Column 3]
Taylor when they were children, and said
many more good things.
	The choir sang the glorious hymn, “Abide
With Me,” and Elder Seymour B. Young
read a few lines from a poem and pro-
nounced the benediction.
	In the long line of carriages that followed
the remains of the deceased to the cemetery,
besides those containing the family and rela-
tives, there were four carriages filled with
the officers and board of the General Relief
Society, and the big Utah in which were
some of the Daughters of the Pioneers,
about thirty.
	At the grave the choir sang “Rest on the
hillside, rest,” and sister Hyde’s brother,
John W. Taylor, dedicated her last resting
place.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SOCIAL HALL PARTIES.
	Thursday, February 9, 1909, the Social
Hall built at an early date, 1853, as a place
of amusement and recreation by President
Young and his coadjutors, was reopened
and rededicated for similar purposes as had
been designed in the distant past.
	The Genealogical Society of ladies had in-
terceded persistently with brethren in author-
ity in the Church, and finally succeeded in
getting the hall renovated and made suit-
able for a gathering place for said society
and others. The Presiding Bishop and his
Counselors rendered valuable assistance to
the sisters whose untiring energy and efforts
ultimately culminated in a series of enjoy-
able parties.
	The first one given was by the First Presi-
dency of the Church and the invited guests
were mostly those who were familiar with
the events, and incidents connected with
this notable structure in its palmy days.
After the banquet, which was a sumptuous
one, served in the commodious dining room,
downstairs; where many noble men and
women had been feasted royally in days
gone by, and many equal in merit surround-
ed the hospitable tables on the present occa-
sion. The floral table decorations were very
beautiful and fragrant, and a genial
spirit of good fellowship prevailed.
	Leaving the tables the goodly company
repaired to the upper room and platform
where a sort of program was given, Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith, master of ceremonies,
who called upon Presiding Bishop C. W.
Nibley to offer the dedicatory prayer, which
was sublimely eloquent. Clive’s band was
in attendance and rendered beautiful music.
After singing a hymn, President Joseph F.
Smith made some explanations in regard to
the auspicious occasion and the energy of
the sisters who had been instrumental in
bringing about this change in the hall; com-
mended their efforts to restore the house so
full of memories of a bygone period; his re-
marks were poetical and he spoke with
great feeling and tenderness of those who
had been the founders of early efforts in cul-
ture and enjoyment for the people, who had
to struggle in building and making habitable
and beautiful the waste places. Referred
wtth great deference and tenderness to Brig-
ham Young and his associates in helping
the Saints to have suitable recreation and
enjoyment as well as labor.
	President Smith called upon a few of the
brethren to give brief reminiscenses; those
who had been familiarly conversant with the
theatres, balls and a variety of entertain-
ments that had been given in this unpreten-
tious edifice, sacred, too, because of those


[Column 1]
who had made their names illustrious in the
history of the Rocky mountain region, Elder
A. M. Musser, Hon. John T. Caine, Bishop
George Romney, Hon. W. W. Riter, Bishop
H. B. Clawson and his wife Margaret; Sister
Clawson had taken part in the first theat-
rical performance in the hall and in the old
bowery responded. Her repetition of the
scenes of the primitive attempts at ‘‘making
up” were intensely entertaining and she was
applauded to the echo.
	After the simple exercises that were in
excellent taste, dancing was announced,
commencing however, with a grand March.
The figures were old-fashioned plain quad-
rilles, French Four, Money Musk, Sir Roger
de Coverley, and Scotch Reels.
	Some of us who had attended parties in
this famous old hall could see imaginary
pictures and called up vivid recollections of
the people who had tripped fantastically
in the mazy dances of the “Long Ago.”
	Toward the close of the evening some ap-
propriate closing remarks were made by
President Smith in which he informed the
company that it was the one hundredth and
ninth anniversary of the birth of his father,
Hyrum Smith, (the patriarch and martyr.)


	The second party of the series was given
by the Genealogical Society and was a
splendid success in every particular, a delic-
ious hot supper was served, three long tables
filled as before, and lovely decorations, and
conversation among the guests of “ye olden
time” the social festivities and old-time
games and dances, and who played the fid-
dles and where were they now? All gone
save one, “Josh Midgley.’” Only a few
women of that very early day in the fifties
when such men as Presidents Brigham
Young, Heber C. Kimball, Daniel H. Wells,
George A. Smith and others mingled in the
dance and festivities of those memorable
years of Utah’s early history of events.
	After the delicious repast the guests re-
paired to the upper hall and platform and
the exercises began with singing, an appro-
priate hymn, and prayer was offered by Elder
Hyrum M. Smith, after another hymn being
rendered, President Anthon H. Lund gave a
short synopsis of the Genealogical work, ex-
plaining how diligent and faithful the sis-
ters had been who had undertaken it, and
spoke very highly of them, and portrayed
somewhat briefly the future of this mag-
nanimous work for the dead. Elder Heber
J. Grant sang during the evening, “The
Flag Without a Stain.” Clive’s band were
in place on the platform, and dancing be-
gan and continued for some time, all seem-
ing to enjoy the exercise, judging by appear-
ances; finally there was a sort of interval
and singing and conversation was indulged
in meanwhile. Dr. Seymour B. Young took
the lead in singing, “There is Sunshine in
my Soul,” in which many joined, President
John R. Winder singing as clearly and with
as much enthusiasm as any young man.
President Joseph F. Smith’s presence was
missed, but the fact that he was away for a
rest and a change compensated in some
measure for his absence. However both his
Counselors and several members of the
quorum of the Apostles were present and
the party was really very enjoyable and ex-
hilarating, especially for those who took part
in the dancing, although, meeting one’s
friends’and exchanging courtesies is quite
good for us all, calling up old memories and
inquiring after friends of former days.

[Column 2]
	The third party of the series was given
Thursday March 18, and by the bye, was the
birthday anniversary of Susa Young Gates.
who was the first child born in the Lion
House, and really the fact should have been
announced there, even at the risk of vexing
the lady herself.
	The gathering was called the Kirtland
party, and as many Kirtland people and
their descendants as could be found were in-
vited. The secretary, Miss Annie Lynch,
sent out a large number of letters, in fact,
we are told, six hundred invitations were
issued to those whose names could be ascer-
tained.
	Elder George D. Pyper was master of
ceremonies and the exercises of the eve-
ning began with prayer by Elder Milando
Pratt and the hymns that were sung were
those that had been favorites of the Saints
in the Kirtland Temple. The dancing was,
perhaps, a little more old-fashioned than at
the other parties, beginning with a grand
march, in which nearly all present partici-
pated. There were some unique features of
the evening; the committee were anxious to
know how many were present who had lived
in Kirtland and they were asked to stand;
five rose up on the platform in view of the
assembly; they were Sisters Martha D. Si-
mons, Mary Ann Winters, and Sally Knight
Palmer, and patriarch John Smith and
W. C. Whitman. Sister Simons, who
who will soon be eighty-three, was asked to
speak, and among her reminiscences she
stated that she had seen the papyrus from
which the Pearl of Great Price was trans-
lated, and also the coins shown in the book;
she gave this as a testimony to the young
people. Sister Simons dances well, and very
much enjoyed it.
	Patriarch John Smith had with him a cane
owned by his father,Patriarch Hyrum Smith.
Brother W. C. Whitman presented a rare
relic, which the historic division of the Gen-
ealogical Society prize very much, a beauti-
fully carved cane, made by his nephew from
a newel post of the Kirtland Temple; this-
with other relics, made an interesting collec,
tion. Much enthusiasm is felt over these
historic parties. About fifty letters were re-
ceived from Kirtland pioneers and their
descendants who could not be present.
	A very interesting feature of the enter-
tainment was a recitation in costume called
Money Musk, by Mrs. Winniefred Brown,
given very dramatically, Professor C. D.
Schettler accompanying on the guitar. This
exercise was so applauded that the obliging
little lady gave an encore.
	A summary of the work of the So-
ciety had been prepared by Miss Lynch, the
secretary, who is indefatigable in her labors,
and was read by Elder George D. Pyper.
Sister Susa Young Gates made a short
speech in her original style, and Miss Ina
Smith had collected a few items of Church
history, notable events that had transpired
in the month of March, beginning with
1831, there were quite a few facts presented
that would be entirely new to most of those
present, therefore added to the pleasure
of music, dancing, etc., there was valuable
information given of past incidents and
events.
	The sisters who had been instrumental in
bringing so much real enjoyment to their
friends deserve our gratitude as well as sin-
cere congratulations, Sister Edna L. Smith,
Susa Y. Gates and Ann D. Groesbeck, and
their very efficient secretary, Annie Lynch.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARIES.
	Died at Toquerville, July 25th, 1908, Sister Ann
Brumell Cooper Savage after a very short illness.
She was born in Arlington, Cambridge, England,
March 28, 1815. Joined the Church in 1843,
emigrated to Zion 1857, with three little girls.
Pulled a handcart across the plains, buried one
of her little girls at Iowa. Was in Captain At-
wood’s company. Arrived in Salt Lake City Nov.
9th, 1857. Married Levi Savage Oct. 31, 1858 in
Lehi, Utah. Moved to Dixie in 1863. She was a
faithful Latter-day Saint. A model homemaker,
an affectionate wife and mother, of a bright sunny
disposition. Was a faithful teacher in the Relief
Society in our first organization, had a class of
young girls and taught them to braid and sew
straw hats of all kinds.
	She leaves an aged husband, two daughters,
three grandchildren and a number of great grand-
children, and numerous friends to mourn her loss.
She was respected and beloved by all who knew
her.

	Died at Toquerville, Aug. 21, 1908, Sarah Par-
kinson Stapley, born May 24, 1831, Cambridge,
England. Embraced the gospel in Australia, in
1853, sailed for Zion 1854, landed in San Pedro,
Cal., June 13, 1854. Married to Charles Stapley
July 24, 1854. Came to Utah 1858 and settled in
Toquerville. She was the mother of eleven chil-
dren, six daughters and five sons. Three daught-
ers have preceded her to the other world. She was
a staunch Latter-day Saint, a devoted wife and
mother, and had to make great sacrifices for her
religion. She was always an active worker in the
Relief Society, being treasurer, counselor, and
teacher, for years, always filling each position with
honor. She has gone to a well earned rest. Her
memory is sacred to all who knew her.
	We all enjoy the Exponent and wish you suc-
cess in your good work for the elevation of wo-
man.
Your Sisters in the Gospel,
R. J. SPILSBURY, Prest.
ELIZABETH W. LAMB, Sec.


R. S. REPORTS.
			GRANITE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Granite
Stake Relief Society was held at the Stake
Tabernacle on Tuesday, December 15, at 10
a. m. and 2 p. m.
	The morning session was well attended
and was addressed by the Stake Presidency
and High Council, who were present, with
songs by the choir, and solo “My mountain
home,” by Sister Lucy M. Green.
	The afternoon program was rendered by
the Stake Relief Society choir of 35 voices,
and “The life of Christ in song and story”
was the subject, with lecture by Prof. Joshua
H. Paul, and connective scripture readings
by Sister Lucy M. Green.
	The full musical program follows:
	Hymn, “O Jesus the giver,” congregation;
Hymn, “Far far away on Judah’s plains,”
choir; Hymn, “Christmas Carol,” choir;
Double Duett, ‘‘The angels song;” Hymn,
“Behold the Lamb of God,” choir; Song,
Galilee,” Sister Alice Eccles and choir; Song,
“Master the tempest is raging,” choir; Solo,
“Gethsemane,” Sister Lilian E. Bruerton;
Solo, “Calvary,” Sister Alice Eccles; Hymn,
“Behold the great Redeemer die,” choir;
Hymn, “Hark ten thousand voices,” choir.
	The principal events in the Life of Christ
were commented on by the lecturer, and il-
lustrated by the song rendered, and the pro-
gram was greatly enjoyed by all present.
	LUCY M. GREEN, Chorister,
	LILLIAN E. BRUERTON, Accompanist.
	LUCY M. GREEN, Cor. Secy.


The vote in the South Dakota House for
full suffrage was even better than first re-
ported. It stood 34 to 9.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			ALPINE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Alpine Stake was held at Lehi, Fri-
day, October 30th, 1908. President Rebecca
Standring presiding. Meeting opened at 10
o’clock by the choir singing, “Praise to the
man who communed with Jehovah.” Prayer
was offered by Stake Counselor A. J. Evans.
Singing, “Come ye who love the Lord.”
Minutes read, etc. All wards represented.
	President Standring welcomed the sisters.
Was thankful for the good reports she re-
ceived from the stake officers, as she was
not always able to visit the wards as much
as she would like. Prayed that faith might
increase with the sisters. Urged the teachers
to do their duty and inquire into the feelings
and condition of the sisters. Spoke of the
General Relief Society Conference at Salt
Lake and felt that the blessing she received
had fully paid her for attending. The sisters
were there urged to teach the young women
the importance of Temple ordinances and
marriage for eternity. Also that the sisters
could take the holy oil and administer to the
sisters and their children. “We know there
is no blessing that will be withheld from the
sisters if they are faithful.”
	The four wards of Lehi were reported by
their respective presidents. All united, of-
ficers and members. All in good working
condition. Attend to the mothers lessons
and enjoy the teachings they get. Are mak-
ing clothing and quilts for the poor, and have
put their granaries in good condition for
keeping the wheat.
	Song, “Only waiting,” Sisters Clarke and
Whitman.
	Brother Jos. H. Clarke of the Stake Presi-
dency made an excellent address full of in-
spiration and wisdom. He touched briefly
upon many subjects pertaining to life here
and hereafter, care of children, eternity of
marriage, etc.
	A brief sketch of the life and and labors
of President Rebecca Standring was read by
Sister Sina Chipman.
	Sister Standring responded in a few fitting
words, giving the glory and praise to God
for all the gifts bestowed upon her, and for
all her blessings.
	Singing, “Glory to God on high.” Bene-
diction by Counselor Harriet Jacobs.
	Conference adjourned until 2 o’clock.
	Afternoon Session at 2 o’clock. President
Standring presiding. Counselor Jacobs in
charge. Opening devotional exercises, mi-
nutes, etc.
	Counselor Harriet Jacobs in her opening
address spoke of the care given to the sick,
this is preparing us for our future life.
Thanked the officers and committee who had
prepared such a nice entertainment for all
the sisters present during the noon recess.
	Three wards of American Fork were re-
ported by the presidents, all doing nicely
with an increase in attendance. Keep in
close touch with the wards. Help those who
are crowded with sewing for the children.
Gain a benefit from “mothers lessons.” Have
sent two young sisters to the Nurse class.
Teachers doing well and trying to have Gos-
pel talks with the sisters in their homes.
	Instrumental music by Sister J. Allred
Webb.
	Stake President Stephen L. Chipman was
delighted with the exercises, and the spirit
of peace and good will that exists, also with
the testimonies borne. Rejoiced in the word
of wisdom being kept, it is an old subject
and we each of us know how well we have
lived up to its requirements; he then read

[Column 2]
the revelation on the word of wisdom which
was given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, and
which we have now been required to observe
as a commandment. The people should be
constrained to observe it as a duty. Some
have one excuse and some another. Hoped
that before many years that we will have no
saloons in our midst and they who run them
will find better occupation, then there will
be more happiness and comfort in our fami-
lies. Let us stand shoulder to shoulder and
see if we cannot make an improvement in
this line. May the Lord bless you in your
labors.
	Duett, “Sometime, somewhere,” Sisters
Korten and Stice.
	Sister Annie C. Hindley gave a very inter-
esting sketch of the life of Sister Emma Hale
Smith, wife of the Prophet Joseph Smith,
showing her humility of heart, her devotion
to her husband and her ability to preside.
	Brother A. J. Evans, of the Stake Presi-
dency, felt happy to see so many young
mothers present, and heartily endorsed the
revelation read by President Chipman and
also his remarks on the same. Sisters, plead
with your husbands to refrain from the habit
of smoking, for their sakes, for your sake,
and for the childrens sake. Referred to the
sermon on the Mount and advised the sisters
to read all three chapters. Our mission is to
keep our light burning; speak words of kind-
ness to those who are in trouble.
	President Standring rejoiced in this day’s
conference. Thanked all who had taken
part in any way and blessed the sisters.
Asked the Lord to strengthen us that we
may be able to put in practise the good in-
structions we have received today, desired
the blessing of the Lord on all present.
	After singing and prayer conference ad-
journed for three months.
			EMMA FEATHERSTONE,
							Secretary.
			DAVIS STAKE.
	Minutes of one hundred and twenty-
fourth conference of the Davis Stake Relief
Society held January 29, 1909 at Bountiful,
Utah, President M. E. Knowlton presiding.
	Opened with usual exercises of singing
and prayer.
	Counselor Elizabeth Ford was pleased to
meet the brothers and sisters in conference
this morning. Said we are all united in
our labors as a board, and made explana-
tions about the Stake work.
	Counselor Emma J. Strong felt well in
attending conference. Spoke on the sub-
ject of Temple work and thought a great
deal of good will result from the efforts of
the sisters in working in the Temple. If
we observe the Word of Wisdom and live
near to the Lord, we will not have so much
illness in our families.
	A vocal solo, “Face to Face,” was rend-
ered by Miss Cora Barlow.
	Reports were then heard from the follow-
ing branches: South Bountiful, West
Bountiful, East Bountiful, Centerville and
Farmington.
	Elder Wallace W. Willey felt pleased with
the reports. The Relief Society should be
second to no other organization in the
Church. It is a great benefit to women and
all married women should be members. The
Relief Society is a great benefit to the bish-
ops of each ward.
	Sister Mary Woolley, Stake missionary,
said she was interested in Relief Society
work and loved it. It is truly a privilege to
visit the different organizations in the stake.

[Column 3]
We find the spirit of the Lord wherever we
go.
	President M. E. Knowlton was delighted
and was pleased the elements were favor-
able to our conference. After indefatigable
labor and effort the outlines of study for the 
Relief Society for 1909, and 1910 were
completed at last. We have a lew copies
for distribution this morning. They have
been approved of by the General Board and
the stake Presidency.
	President Nancy Willey of East Bounti-
ful said we have prepared lunch and desire
all to remain and partake of it.
	Singing “Glorious things of thee are
spoken.”
	Prayer by President Emma J. Strong.
	Officers meeting held at 1 p. m. Prayer
by President M. E. Knowlton. A calendar
of visits for the coming year was prepared
each president giving the time and date of
holding their meeting.
	Sister Myra Winegar was released as
Stake missionary. Sisters Edith Eldredge
of West Bountiful, Ellen Smith of Clearfield
and Esther Haddock of Clinton were sus-
tained and set apart as Stake missionaries.
	Sister Mary S. Leonard was honorably
released as assistant Stake secretary and
Sister Rozelpha J. Knowlton was unanimous-
ly sustained as assistant Stake secretary.
	The balance of the time was devoted to
the reading and discussion of the Outlines.
	Dismissed by Counselor Emma J. Strong.
	Afternoon session opened at 2 p. m.
with usual exercises.
	Counselor Elizabeth Ford was very well
pleased to see the large number present.
Of all women we are the most blessed in
our opportunities for doing good. I pray
that we may all live up to our privileges as
Latter-day Saints.
	The following society organizations were
then reported: Kaysville Layton, Clinton
and Clearfield.
	Sister Jane J. Eldredge spoke on the sub-
ject of obedience. None of us are our own
masters, as we are governed by the laws of
God, and we must bring ourselves under
subjection to his will. If we break these
laws we will suffer the penalty. It is one of
the greatesr laws of the kingdom of God, for
by being obedient we will progress and live
to better the world and better makind.
	Counselor Emma J. Strong said, I love
the society of the Relief Society sisters. I
have been asked to report our Temple work.
A day was selected the 22nd of January to
devote a day to work in the Temple for the
poor, or for those who cannot do their own
work. One hundred and seventy-nine re-
sponded, which exceeded our expectations.
In three months we will go again, as I think
it will do a lot of good. Spoke on the nec-
essity of observing the Word of Wisdom so
we can ask our Bishops for a recommend to
the House of the Lord.
	A quartette, “Come where the Lilies
Bloom,” was very nicely rendered by young
ladies.
	Counselor James A. Eldredge explained
the absence of President Grant and his
mother Sister Grant, as they were attending
services over the funeral remains of Sister
Rachel Grant today. Also spoke of the ill-
ness of Counselor Jesse M. Smith, which
prevented his attending the conference. There
is a great responsibility resting upon us as
Latter-day Saints, we receive so many in-
structions, we ought to be the best people on
earth. Gave a brief account of the first
organization of the Relief Society and the
first officers. From this small beginning


this society has increased to over 35,000
members.
	President M. E. Knowlton felt to endorse
all that had been said. If we have perfect
faith we can be healed instantly, but we
must be obedient to the will of our Father
in heaven. Life is not the dearest gift, a
great many things are of more importance.
Be reconciled to the will of the Father what-
ever it is.
	Sister Mary S. Clark, a very reverend
woman, for many years first counselor in the
Stake was well pleased to see so large a con-
gregation who were willing to lay aside their
work for one day and attend conference.
Let us attend to our prayers. Set a good
example before our children. I pray we
may be blessed as a people and live to receive
the reward prepared for the faithful.
	Conference aejourned for three months.
	Singing, "The Spirit of God like a fire is
burning."
	Benediction, Sister Catherine Knowlton.
HULDA L. MILLER, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
BURIAL CUSTOMS IN ENGLAND.
	Every Country has its peculiarities, and
England is no exception. One thing notice-
able is the church building at the cemetery,
with its wide covered arch, which separates
the church from the chapel. Services are
not held at the home, but at the church or
chapel mentioned, according to the faith of
the departed. As a rule the funeral cortege
drives under the arch, the coffin is borne
into church on the shoulders of four or six
pall bearers. The coffins are plain, of heavy
wood and have no shell, everything is black
about the ceremonies.
	Only rarely friends accompany the mourn-
ers who are composed of members of the
family only. The pall bearers are paid for
services; and on one occasion we saw the
money handed to them, while the closing
portion of the burial service was being read.
	Lonesome indeed the little group look, as
they occupy the few seats in the church.
The coffin is somewhat elevated; everything
is cold, dreary and cheerless. The priest
reads the burial service of the Church of
England, portions of which is taken from
the fifteenth chapter of Corinthians, in that
monotonous, chanting tone, but always the
words "I am the resurrection and the life"
are quoted. Service being over the pall
bearers carry the coffin as before; the priest
in his white robe, with wide bishop sleeves,
and black surplice over his black dress, and
prayer book pressed to his breast, solemnly
leads the procession to the grave, where he
again reads, "Man that is born of woman,
has not long to stay,—we brought nothing
into the world, and assuredly we can take
nothing out. Dust to dust (when the sex-
ton throws in a little hand full of earth)
ashes to ashes. O, Lord have mercy on our
souls. Amen."
	Looking down into the grave about nine
feet deep (four or five are buried on each
other) the bereaved ones dropping a few
quiet tears turn away, leaving the form so
dear to them, to be covered up at the time
and convenience of the sexton.
	And well it is in one way; they cannot see
how the coffin is jerked around to free it of
the ropes. In one instance they were caught;
a lad about fourteen, was dropped down on
the coffin, and lighting on the plate with his
hobnailed shoes, crushed it in; the sexton
joking meanwhile and laughing, was pulling
up the ropes, when a handle torn from its
a stenings was pulled up, falling on the cof-

[Column 2]
fin. With feelings indescribable one turns
away.
	A warm day in the early autumn, again in-
vites a walk through the cemetery; and with
book in hand it is a pleasure, to sit on one of
the rustic seats, charmingly situated in a leafy
alcove, commanding a view of the grounds,
and there study concerning the mystery of
life and death, and God's word eoncerning
us, and our state hereafter.
	Meditating in deep thought, a little fun-
eral procession catche[-] the eye. Slowly it
wends its way, to only a short distance from
the spot, where we are sitting, where plainly
to be seen is an open grave, not before no-
ticed. A pall bearer with white gloves, is
carrying a little white coffin, whose occupant
could not have been many weeks in this
"vale of tears" the young father and mother
following. The first baby was plainly writ-
ten, as the group surrounded the grave.
	The service is read, the minister returns to
the church; the bereaved parents look down,
(the mother's heart in her eyes,) for the last
glimpse of the tiny coffin, when her strength
failing, she is supported by her husband.
Then walk they wearily back to the desolate
home. A few tears of sympathy fall for the
unknown mourners. The scene brings back
other days, when we were the chief mourn-
ers in a like drama, in a land beyond the
sea.
	The present fades, and the hill far away,
where sleep thousands of God's children
rises to view, and pangs of sorrow again fill
the heart that was bereaved in the days long
ago. Still watching the young couple de-
scending to the gate, the glory of a Utah
sunset comes vividly to mind; and standing
by the graves of a household, we look to the
West; again the crimson and gold dazzle the
eye, as the sun's last rays, scintillate over
the broad bosom of the Great Salt Lake.
	The well known surroundings are there;
and stepping lightly on the green grass that
covers them over, each mound is visited.
But it is only a day dream, the present
comes forcibly to mind, as the thud of a
heavy iron falls on the ear, and suddenly we
become aware that the little grave is being
filled up.
	Is it possible that they are pounding on
that frail, little coffin in that way? Yes, it
is too true. One man throws in a few shovels
full of earth, while another stands in the
grave and pounds it down. It makes one
shudder; every thud seems to strike the
heart, for surely that little one must be
crushed to pieces. This is the custom, so
that the earth taken out, is forced back
again; then the sod that has been rolled on
the side, is again replaced, and on the mor-
row, none would ever knew an interment
had taken place.
	Sick at heart we leave for the town, won-
dering if every one who has been laid there
to rest, had been beaten out of all semblance
of the human, as soon as left by their loved
ones. How dear is home and the customs
of the Saints!
	A Winter Burial. The day has been bleak
and cold, the sun giving no light, to dispel
the gloom. Walking rapidly on the broad,
hard road of the cemetery, we see a funeral

[Column 3]
procession, just emerging from the chapel
side, of the edifice before mentioned. Num-
bers of mourners follow the pall bearers, and
a clergyman (Wesleyan) precedes them to
the grave. The prayer book is opened, a
rather lengthy service read; when near its
close, in a solemn voice he says, "Oh, Lord
may this sister come forth in the General
Resurrection, at the Great and Last Day."
	The mourners seem much affected, little
groups of them taking their last farewell, of
this aged mother and friend; then they slow-
ly turn away, going back to the duties of
the living, one Martha remarking, "that she
must be going, so as to be back to get tea."
	The children (all grown) with their friends,
take out the immense handkerchiefs used
here, which as they flutter, look like white
flags, wipe their falling tears, then follow
the rest down the green slope, and soon all
are gone.
	The casket is not known here, the old
fashioned coffin still holds its own, and the
grave is dug to that shape. Looking down
we read the name, and "aged 60 years."
But the closing words of the service ring in
our ears, "to come forth in the General Re-
surrection at the Great and Last Day." O,
how long that will be! Yet that is all they
ask. She had been a good mother, no doubt,
through heat of summer and cold of winter
had struggled on in life; had borne the sons
and daughters who had just laid her away;
had fulfilled her life mission to the best of
[-]er understanding and ability; she had grown
weary of the many and heavy burdens of
life, its crosses and losses and had now fal-
len asleep on the way, and was laid here
until "The General Resurrection at the
Great and Last Day."
	O, the darkness of the human mind, when
it is not illuminated by the light of truth!
	Other scenes of like nature, come to mind,
where the spot is reverently dedicated, for
the repose of the precious dust; that it may
be protected from the elements, from all
that would disturb; and there rest under the
charge of angels, "until the trump shall
sound, and the dead in the Lord shall come
forth, in the Morning of the First Resurrec-
tion, clothed with principalities and powers;
to dwell on the earth with the Redeemer a
thousand years." Then softly the hymn
floats on the air,
"Rest for the weary soul,
Rest for the aching head;
Rest on the hillside rest,
With the uncounted dead."
	But the sexton with aids come up to cover
up the sleeper, and the spell is broken. It
is a dull November day in England, and the
fog is settling down. With a warm feeling
in our hearts, of gratitude to God for the
Gospel, for a prophet's voice, and for an as-
surance, that if faithful, we will not have to
sleep, until "the General Resurrection, at
the Great and Last Day, we leave the City
of the Dead. LYDIA D. ALDER.


Dr. Cora Smith Eaton is chairman of the
Committee on Local Arrangements for the
National Suffrage Convention, to be held in
Seattle July next.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY
LADIES’ READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
TRY US


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 37.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL, 1909.						No. 7.


CONTENTS.
									PAGE
A Tribute to Sister Hyde..................................
	..............................Julia P. M. Farnsworth	49
Reminiscenses of Nauvoo.........Louisa Decker	49
A Very Interesting Old Letter...........................
	.........................President Joseph F. Smith	51
Celebration Portland Relief Society.................	55
17th of March Anniversary...Leonora Worthen	55
Resolutions of Respect.....................................	55
Obituary............................................................	55
A Loving Tribute..................Abbie H. Cowley	56
Relief Society Stake Report: Bear River..........	56
Nineteenth Ward Hall...........Agnes G. Branch	56
Notes and News................................................	56
Editorial:—In Memoriam of Rachel Ridgeway
	Ivins Grant................................................	52
	Here and There.........................................	53
	Birthday Party...........................................	54
	Social Hall Parties....................................	54
	Sisters Badger and Nuttall........................	54
	Editorial Notes..........................................	55
Poetry:—In Memoriam of Annie Taylor Hyde
	......................................Carrie S. Thomas	49
	In Memory of Annie Taylor Hyde............
	........................................Ellis R. Shipp....	49
	Grandmother’s Fan...................................
	..............................Queenie Scott-Hopper	50


[Column 1]
		IN MEMORIAM.
	ANNIE TAYLOR HYDE.
Read at the R. S. Conference, April 2, 1909.

A gentle spirit hers we miss today—
Her Father called—we could not bid her stay
Her work so sweetly done, now she may rest,
We still are toiling thitherward—God knows best.

And so we do not mourn, for well we know
Thou hadst thy meed of suff’ring here below,
Earth’s narrow vision widened, thou mayst see
Much that to us remains a mystery.

It is not Life to live mechanically—
We do not live while lacking charity—
For Love is All, and Love is God’s own way:
“He prayeth best who loveth most” they say.

And in that blessed Evermore we’ll see
What now, perchance, hath been revealed to thee:
God’s will be done! and Father grant us grace
To reach with her, Thine own abiding place!
					CARRIE S. THOMAS.

IN MEMORY OF ANNIE TAYLOR HYDE.
How short the span—how brief the day
	That binds to earth a mortal soul;
This earthly part a crumbling clay,
	That human mind cannot control;
That yearning hearts cannot retain
	The lives encircling arms enfold,
’E’en love, and hope, and faith are vain—
	Enfeebling strength must loose its hold,
Must loose its hold, must humbly bow
	In meek submission to God’s will,
Too weak to see the wherefore now—
	Yet trusting faith is living still!
Above, beyond, o’ermastering all
	The Universe of life and light,
Our Father’s love shines through the pall
	Of death, and gloom, and sorrow’s night.
How infinite, how limitless,
	Immutable, and without end
The powers of our God to bless,
	How far His mercies can extend—
Through every varying, changing phase
	Of mortal life for all on earth,
In tender, loving, nameless ways
	Proclaims for all immortal birth!
						ELLIS R. SHIPP.

	A TRIBUTE TO SISTER HYDE.
	We do not feel that a word can be uttered
that will add to the record of our dear sister,
whom we have met to honor this day. She
has ever been a true, womanly woman in all
that the word implies. A wife and mother,

[Column 2]
noble, sincere, capable and devoted; a
daughter kind and faithful in all things. A
consistent, genuine Latter-day Saint. As
sister and friend, generous, tender and true;
as counselor, wise, earnest and just.
	The Spartan fortitude which marked Sis-
ter Hyde’s entire life work has been most
heroically exemplified in her last critical ill-
ness; cheerful, patient and hopeful under the
most serious conditions, thoughtful and soli-
citous for others, charitable, generous and
courteous to every one, and nothing but her
own implicit faith and trust in God and His
mercies could have sustained her through
the long months of intense suffering she has
endured.
	Our acquaintance since laboring in the
General Relief Society Board with our dear
sister has been of a close, intimate nature.
Long, hard missionary trips, sometimes
made by team, have brought out many traits
of character that years of association in our
home towns would not have developed.
We have made several long journeys with
dear Sister Annie Hyde, and never found
one quality that was other than pure, elevat-
ing, beautiful and womanly. She was a
natural born lady in very deed, refined, cul-
tured and well informed to an unusual de-
gree. A woman of wonderful faith and in-
tegrity, temperate in all her habits, modest
in dress, a conscientious Relief worker and
officer, gentle and self-sacrificing under every
condition. She never failed in her appoint-
ments, neither was she tardy in attending
her meetings. Always thoughtful and anx-
ious for those who entertained and gave to
us the most cordial and best of their hospi-
tality. She was ever charitable and liberal
to the poor, loyal and staunch to her friends.
The personal loss to her immediate family
alone can over balance what we, her sister-
associates and near companions, sustain at
this time. Women like Sister Hyde leave
an indelible memory, a strong tie, that time
can never efface.
	For Annie Taylor Hyde came of a fine an-
cestry. On her mother’s side Jane Ballan-
tyne was of the sturdy, high souled Scotch
Covenanters who did so much to establish
religious freedom in their own country, and
sent so many noble men and women to the
New World to help in its colonization. Her
father, John Taylor, was ever the trusted
friend and often the companion of our be-
loved Prophet and Patriarch, and the only
man whose blood mingled with that of our
martyred heroes, he having been wounded
five times on that memorable 27th of June,
1844, at Carthage. President Taylor was
not only one of the early defenders and pro-
moters of the Latter-day Saint Church, the
able expounder of our Savior’s gospel, but
he was one of the most polished, learned,
scholarly men identified with the Pioneer
founders of Utah, our great and growing
commonwealth, also the third president of
her people.
	Then ’tis no wonder, being of such worthy,
intelligent parentage, born and reared in this
grand, high mountainous region of the great
Wasatch range, that Sister Hyde has left a
record, a character all may honor and emu-
late.

[Column 3]
	We will miss her able counsel, her gentle,
cheerful presence. We mourn with her loved
ones in their irreparable bereavement, yet
we feel stimulated for we have faith and
hope in our Father’s promises, in the glori-
ous reuniting of family circles, knowing this
is only the preparatory life, the hereafter is
eternal, everlasting, and the separation brief.
If we live worthily we will again meet our
dear friend, our beloved associate.
	May a portion of God’s influence be in the
homes and lives of Sister Hyde’s family,
especially the two missionaries, her absent
sons, to comfort and bless, to guide and di-
rect, to strengthen them at this time, is our
earnest, sincere prayer.
		JULIA P. M. FARNSWORTH.

	Read at the R. S. Conference, April 2,
1909.


REMINISCENCES OF NAUVOO.
Written by LOUISA DECKER for the Exponent.
		(Continued from page 42.)
	It was now our task to get our wagon
ready, Nathaniel getting a permit to go on
the field to bring the front wheels of the
wagon that had been used to mount a can-
non. The city was now in possession of
the enemy and parties were searching for
ammunition and guns that might not have
been delivered. Our trunks and boxes were
emptied on the floor, and as I followed them
from room to room, I said, “These are the
men that make our homes desolate.”
	Now we made all haste to cross the river.
We helped mother to her seat in the wagon,
Nathaniel driving and I following with the
one horse wagon that father had used to de-
liver his work.
	We traveled slow and stopped with some
camp of Saints at night, as there were
many all along the road. There was much
sickness in these camps, and the fall rain
made the roads bad. Some had camped
where the men could get a few days’ work.
	We got as far as Garden Grove, where a
few had settled. We found a family that
we knew in Kirtland by the name of Mac-
Kinney. They received mother in their
house, where she gave birth to a baby boy,
which only lived a few hours; and mother
passed away on the morning of the 5th of
November.
	Here we found kind friends to see that
mother and babe were properly dressed, one
neighbor, Brother Whipple, made the neat
pine board coffin that held mother and babe.
	Now we were prepared to continue our jour-
ney to Winter Quarters. My brother Na-
thaniel and a few young men heard that
they could get work down in Missouri where
they went. The MacKinneys offered my-
self and brother Benjamin for a small rent
payment room to put our camp stove in one
side of their big fireplace and room to put
our bed, while some of their older boys
slept in our wagons. This was a family of
twelve children, father and mother, and a
big log room to shelter all. Here I cooked
and cared for my little brother, sometimes
getting a dish of hominy from the big-
hearted Sister MacKinney.


[Column 1]
	As soon as the weather permitted, we
started for Winter Quarters, arriving three
weeks before the second company started
for the valley. Here we found we were
short of the requirement of provisions for
all of us to continue our journey. My
brother, after trying to collect some money
that was owing father, (the brethren were in
no condition to do anything besides look
after their own families) after asking coun-
sel of Father Morley (he was one set apart
to give counsel) he decided to wait another
year. He made arrangements with a fam-
ily named Kinyon for me to travel with;
paying him one hundred dollars in provi-
sions. We had an uncle here, Benjamin
Aber, who offered for a small weekly pay-
ment to take care of our little brother; we
left our wagons and goods in his care,
while my elder brother went down in Mis-
ssuri to get work. He was in his eighteenth
year. The next spring he was sick with
malaria, and the next year while coming up
the river, he had his trunk, clothing and
money stolen. Sick and discouraged, he
went to Cincinnati where he worked into a
partnership in the steel and stencil engrav-
ing business. He prospered, and bought
out his partner. We corresponded until the
civil war broke out, when he wrote that he
thought of joining the army. That was the
last I heard of him.
	At Winter Quarters I met my sister Mary.
She had lost her young husband, John Mur-
dock. While driving the cattle through the
Missouri river, he had taken cold and died,
and was the first white man buried in the
Indian Mound at Winter Quarters, leaving
a bride of five months, a widow at the age
of fifteen. She stayed with her husband’s
mother, and journeyed across the plains in
Captain Jedediah M. Grant’s company. I
traveled in Captain A. O. Smoot’s com-
pany. Kinyon being captain of ten, I drove
a two horse team for him as far as Fort Lar-
amie, where my team and three other horses
were stolen by Indians. From there to the
valley I drove a yoke of oxen; walking most
of the way to lighten the load. I helped
set out the meals, wash dishes, make mush
for next day’s lunch milked four cows that
gave enough milk for our mush. This I
strained in a churn, and and the jolting
of the wagon churned butter for one meal;
seven in family, three boys, Mr. and Mrs.
Kinyon, her brother George Swartout, and
myself.
	One morning at Green River, Sister
Kinyon’s babe was born, a widow by the
name of McKimins acting as doctor and
nurse. In about two days we drove on,
joining our company at their noon lunch.
The babe became a great comfort to me,
it was something to love all the next win-
ter. I would hurry through my work to hold
it in my arms. The family never knew how
the orphan girl longed for the kind words
they so freely gave their own, and that I
had been so recently deprived of. The
mother was a good woman, but the father
was always surly with me; only speaking
to order some work done. He became
weak in the faith, and later going to Cali-
fornia to seek better conditions. On his re-
turn trip he and two others were killed by
the Indians. I heard the family went to
southern California in the spring of ’48.
	Aunt Sally Murdock, my sister’s mother-
in-law, complained that carrying the water
across the fort and other work was too hard
for me. She made arrangements to take me
and demanded my share of provisions, five
hundred of flour, which she got. They had

[Column 2]
received flour in payment for bringing me
out and keeping me a year. As soon as the
roots began to grow, I had dug them and
mostly lived on them; although they were
almost tasteless it stopped the gnawing
hunger; and I was told it was wicked to eat
more than was necessary to stop hunger; the
children were younger than I, and I felt
they needed the bread more than I did,
having less control of their appetites.
	The Mormon Batallion boys were coming
into the valley now and had to be fed;
each family giving what they could spare.
By trade, work and donations they managed
to live. People had now begun to move
out on pieces of land, to raise crops, having
brought seed with them, some living in
wagon boxes, others in tents, some leaving
their families in the fort. I went with
Aunt Sally Murdock and her young son
Nymphas, fourteen years of age, to help
plant and herd the cows off the fields. We
had no fences. We had neighbors doing
the same. Our crops on Mill Creek bench
were doing fine; irrigation ditches running,
everything looking prosperous, good bread,
milk and sego roots to eat Here we fared
better than some of our neighbors. One
near us, having a cow and a little meal,
lived on gruel, another, by the name of
Johnson, lived on milk alone, their families
in the Fort, faring little better, all waiting
for the crops to mature. Then came the
big black crickets. All turned out to drive
them off; the old lady Murdock and myself
with willow limbs walking up and down
each row and Nymphas filling the ditches
with water to drown them.  But with all we
could do, more came, until we realized our
efforts were vain. Then came our God-
given blessing, the gulls. We stood in
wonderment to see them fill themselves and
disgorge, filling again and again. Then we
knew the Lord sent them. Aunt Sally
raised her arms to beaven and said, “O
Lord, we thank Thee for our deliverance!”
Here I wish to bear my testimony that I
know our heavenly Father sent the gulls.
	Ours were the first people to make homes
west of the Missouri river, a thousand miles
from civilization. Our Heavenly Father
had delivered us from persecutions and
drivings of those who hated our religion,
gave us a goodly land where the Saints
have grown to a mighty people still grow-
ing and prospering as we never could in
Kirtland, Missouri or Nauvoo, only in the
valleys of the mountains, where a multitude
have found homes, raised sturdy children to
manhood and womanhood—no more intel-
ligent ones to be found in all the world.
	I lived with Sister Murdock until my
eighteenth year, then stayed with my sister
Mary. She had married again and lived in
Kaysville and remained there for fifteen
years, where her six children were born.
Her husband, O. S. Holmes, was persuaded
to go to California, going with team, driving
his herd. By this journey my sister had
crossed the continent from New Jersey to
the Pacific in a covered wagon. Her hus-
band died a few years after, and I was at
her bedside eight years after when she
passed away.
	My brother Benjamin lived four years with
Uncle Aber. Tired of waiting one morning
he started out bare-headed and bare-footed
to walk to the valley. After walking until
very tired, he came to a camp of men going
to the California gold mines. They kindly
brought him to where the roads turned off,
then got him in a train coming this way.

[Column 3]
He is now living on his ranch in Provo
valley.
	I was married to Charles H. Decker a
pioneer, and one that was an active business
man, aiding in many ways the improve-
ments being made. He crossed the plains
fifty-three times, carrying the United States
mail through a hostile Indian country, es-
caping only by outriding them. At times
he was guide in finding and rescuing the late
hand cart companies; was in the mountains
in Echo Canyon the winter Johnston’s
army was coming. He served in the Indian
wars, and belonged to the company called
minute men, and later the Nauvoo Legion
He was a liberal giver at the time of the
wheat famine when many were asking for
bread, many new comers who had spent
their last dollar to bring their families to the
valley. The crops failing that year, flour
was ten cents a pound, and very little to
sell. It was a pitiful sight to see women
selling their trinkets, rings, relics that they
had held almost sacred, for something to
feed their hungry families, children out ask-
ing for crusts of bread; men begging for
work at any price, and again the grass-
hoppers stripped our gardens and trees of
every vestige of green, leaving them in a few
hours as bare as in a winter day. My hus-
band died seven years ago in March, in his
seventy-sixth year. His first wife, Vilate Y.
Decker, died soon after, leaving three chil-
dren, two sons; a daughter, Alice Pitt, now
living in Sugar Ward, had twelve children.
I have only two living, five dying a few
hours after birth.
	My daughter lives in San Francisco.
While visiting her I witnessed the earth-
quake and fire that laid waste that beauti-
ful thriving city where death and destruc-
tion now reigned. In the confusion parents
lost their children. and children their par-
ents. Babes were sent East to find homes,
and will never know to whom they be-
longed. Two days we were cut off from the
rest of the world. All means to stop the
fire were exhausted. We had gone to the
hills when the relief firemen arrived. Next
came the carload of bread from Utah, and
other relief soon followed, money was of no
use. There was nothing to sell. Rich and
poor lined up in the street and waited for
their rations. But the story is too long to
tell here. I trust I have not wearied my
readers with a few incidents of my life with
the Saints, or tried too severely the patience
of my very dear friend, the Editor.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


GRANDMOTHER’S FAN.
Grandmother’s fan I shall take today
Thus in my hand to the matinee—
Grandmother’s fan and my pink bouquet.

Graudmother’s fan—such a beauty! See!
Hand-painted satin and ivory!
Grandmother’s fan—and ’twill dance with me!

Daintiest, surely, of dainty things!
Look at the rose-wreaths and cupids’ wings!
Sweetest of odors around it clings.

Grandmother dear, with her girlish grace,
Once ’neath this fan hid her winsome face—
Once when the world was a diff’rent place!

Once when with grandfather first she met,
Daintily treading a minuet—
Grandmother’s fan may remember yet!

Oh she was gentle and blithe and true—
Grandmother dear, past whose cheeks’ soft hue
Fluttered this fan—and her secrets knew!

Let me be like her, if so I may—
who am taking her fan today
Thus in my hand to the matinee!
			QUEENIE SCOTT-HOPPER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
A VERY INTERESTING OLD LETTER.
			IN EXILE, March 30, 1887.
My Very Dear Aunt Mercy R.:
	Your welcome favor of Dec. 28, ’86, and
Jan. 9, ’87’ with card of remembrance of
Aunt Martha’s death are all before me.
You have, no doubt, wondered at my long
silence, and thought me neglectful of duty,
but I would not like to rest under such a
feeling from you. I have various, or rather
numerous reasons for delaying my answer to
your welcome letter—for your letters are al-
ways more welcome and pleasing to me than
two-thirds of those I do receive. And more
worthy of my earnest consideration and
prompt acknowledgement. Still more,
there are none more welcome, not even
from my own dear loved ones, for you are
the last remaining link of your generation,
which binds me to the earthly remembrance
of my own beloved and cherished Mother.
Not only by the natural ties of birth and
blood, but by the stronger and more endur-
ing ties of fellowship in the bonds of the
New and Everlasting Covenant.
	The example of your life has been like a
way-mark and a guide to all that is true
and faithful, pure and good, for all who
have known you. There can be nothing
more satisfying, or more assuring to the
youth of Israel and especially to such as
have known your undeviating, unselfish in-
tegrity to the cause of Zion, than the exam-
ple of yeur life.  I prize it, I bless you for
its happifying influence upon my youthful
and middle age. I thank you with all my
heart for your faithfulness and firmness to
the cause of Zion. And I thank God for His
goodness and mercy towards you all your life
long, and I hope you will live in the flesh to
see Zion redeemed, and the kingdom of God
victorious over all the world. I know you
will live to see this and all the triumphs of
truth throughout the blessed Millennium,
but it may be after the resurrection and re-
newal of that poor, enfeebled frame of yours
which now has to suffer with the ills of
mortality. For you have eaten of the bread
of life, and, have drunk at that fountain
which giveth life eternal.
	On Dec. 20, 1842, the Prophet said:
“Christ and the resurrected Saints will reign
over the earth a thousand years. They will
not probably dwell on the earth, but will
visit it when they please; or when it is nec-
essary to govern it.” The promise is yours
and it is your right to come forth in the morn-
ing of the resurrection, on such the second
death has no power, and with your husband
you shall reign on the earth, although you
may not make it your permanent abiding
place during the thousand years. I know
that you will live to see Zion redeemed, and
you will, with your husband, and those you
have given unto him, together with the
righteous who have part in the first resur-
rection, be priests and priestesses unto God
and Christ and reign with him a thousand
years (see Rev. 20: 6). Then shall Satan
be loosed for “a little season,” and then
comes the final great battle and the victory
of the Lamb of God, and the end of the
world; then will Satan, the old serpent be
bound, with his hosts and thrust into their
pit, and then shall we see a new heaven
and a new earth, for the old shall pass away
and all things shall become new, and then
shall the Saints of the Most High receive their
inheritance forever, and shall possess the new
earth, and the new heaven for ever and forever.
This is the program, as set forth in the
ever living word of God, whose word is true

[Column 2]
and its promise sure, and those who possess
it in their hearts and endure to the end of
mortal life, can afford to rejoice, and suffer
if need be, and have joy therein.
	I look upon your faithful life as an ex-
emplification of implicit faith in this glori-
ous word, and as such it has borne and will
bear its precious fruits which will bud and
blossom and fruit again and again from
generation to generation to all eternity, and
so the end thereof, tho’ not always seen,
passeth understanding and is most glorious.
Well might the Psalmist say, “I have seen
the wicked in great power, and spreading
himself like a green bay tree, yet he passed
away and lo, he was not, yea, I sought him
but he could not be found. Mark the per-
fect man, and behold the upright, for the
end of that man is peace, the salvation of
the righteous is of the Lord, he is their
strength in the time of trouble, and the Lord
shall help them. He shall deliver them
from the wicked and save them, because
they trust in him.” Not many may know
you, but your life has not been hid from
God, nor from the eyes of some of the faith-
ful, and some who have shone in splendor,
and whose praises have been sung, will yet
pale before the beauty of thy glories, and
diminish in the presence of thy greater re-
wards. From the multitude you have been
hid with Christ in God, your faith has been
that of the first order, altho’ meek and quiet,
your works have been those of an exalted
rank, tho’ unpretentious and unboastful.
And such as met the highest commenda-
tions of the great High Priest of your pro-
fession (see Mark 12: 41-44). Your forti-
tude under trials has been wonderful, your
desires, those of a Saint indeed; your char-
ity to the poor has been abundant, unstint-
ed, your devotion to principle, to the king-
dom of God, to prayers and duty has been
faultless, and your life, a life of self-abnega-
tion and sacrifice for others’ good. You
have loved God and Christ, and sought to
honor them in your works. These things
have even been apparent to me, and how
much more so to Him who seeth and know-
all things. I do not say these things to
flatter, the truth is no flattery, much less
when but part of the truth is told, but that you
may know in your old age and feeble years, a
few of the true sentiments of my heart, and
my appreciation of your true Christian ex-
ample; for which your reward is sure.
	The reasons I have not answered sooner
are in part that I have been a little over-
taxed with correspondence and have not
been able to meet the demands upon me.
I still have many letters to answer, and they
keep coming every mail. Before my late
sickness I managed to keep up, but then I
fell behind and have not yet caught up.
Again, I trust you get word from
me from time to time thro’ the family,
so that I thought I could put you off a lit-
tle, and I know you would forgive me for
my seeming neglect. Before this you have
met my precious companion and babies,
from whom I parted on the 16th inst. They
should have reached home, all being well,
on Sunday morning the 27th inst. Allow-
ing one whole day and part of two days in
San Francisco. I earnestly hope they
reached home in safety, enjoying the bless-
ings of health and peace, and found all well
at home. While my precious Sarah has
been a mother to her children, Julina has
been wife and companion, and all a mother
could be to me, unless she could have been
more aud better than human. I feel that
God has blessed me with the best wives in

[Column 3]
all this world. I cannot afford to be un-
true or unfaithful to them. And I thank
God no such thought has ever yet entered
my heart for an instant, I can die any time
the Lord is willing or calls for me, but in
life or in death, I must be true to those who
are true to me. I would rather never have
been, aye, a thousand times never have
been, than to be unfaithful to them. I can-
not see how I can be true to God or myself
without eternal fidelity to them. Therefore
to this end my heart is fixed, and Cod help-
ing me I shall not, for I cannot change, and
would not if I could. But this seems small
talk to me, as no doubt it does to you. It
is not a debatable question, there can be no
ifs and buts about it, for fidelity and truth
to my covenants means eternal life, and
infidelity thereto means death, hell and
damnation! Surely there ought to be no
possible circumstance connected with this
life, wherein a man can for a moment hesi-
tate as to his choice between these two.
And yet men have fallen, therefore I pray and
crave God’s merciful help, that I may stand.
	Well, Robert stayed with me after the
folks left, and he took the best of care of me.
He was “Chief Cook and butler,” and did
his work well. No one could be more kind
or willing to make my lot as pleasant as
possible. We spent almost a week togeth-
er, and then came out here. He has now
gone to Town with the team and saddle
horse to help out some of the poor Saints to
conference. Started this morning and will
be back tomorrow, all being well. I think
it high time that you should enjoy all you
possibly can of what blessings you possess.
Certainly no one is more deserving, and
when you need what I am owing, you shall
have it if everything else has to stop, you
should have had it before if I had been at
home. I may say incidentally that Robert
is well clothed and eomfortable, so is Hy-
rum, no where else in the world are Elders
provided for as they are here, not all of
them appreciate it either. I think Robert
does, and also Hyrum; they both know my
mind on such subjects. They are both
good boys, and both of them are kind and
respectful to their brethren. That dream
and patriarchal blessing was very interest-
ing. I forwarded them to the address you
gave. I would like to have my mother’s
grave and grave stone renovated and re-
lettered, and will try to arrange for having
it done as soon as I can. I have dreamed
several times about her, and I am satisfied
something is wrong, but what it is the
Spirit has not made plain to me, I know I
should do something for her, and if I can
learn what my duty is I shall leave no
stone unturned to do it. I have been some-
what impressed that she desires me to have
her sealed to father in the Temple, but sup-
posing she was sealed in Nauvoo, I have
not known if it was what she wants. I
have no idea that she cares very much about
her grave stone or such things. I am satis-
fied something is needed.
	There is no difficulty about unembodied
or disembodied spirits conversing together
or with mortals (see B. of M. Ether 3: 16,
and Doc. and Cov. Sec. 129: 7). God bless
you and deliver you from affliction and
suffering. Give my love to Mary Jane.
May God bless her, heal her and sustain
her by his Holy Spirit. Give my love to
the girls, and tell them to be true and
faithful. Robert is becoming a good speak-
er on the first principles. Excuse this
hasty scribble and believe me ever, Your
Affectionate Nephew,	JOS. F. SMITH.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, 1$.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH	-	-	APRIL, 1909.


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.
	RACHEL RIDGEWAY IVINS GRANT.
“Weep not that her toils are over, weep not that
	her race is run,
God grant we may rest as calmly, when our work
	like hers is done!
Till then we would yield with gladness, our treas-
	ures for him to keep,
And rejoice in the sweet assurance, He giveth
	His loved ones sleep.
So He calls them in from their labors ere the shad-
	ows around them creep,
And silently watching o’er them, He giveth His
	loved ones sleep.”

	A beautiful old age is faithfully depicted
in the life of Sister Rachel Grant who passed
away very early in the morning of January
26, 1909, at the residence of Elder George
J. Cannon in this city, where she had been
living for some years past with her grand-
daughter, Lutie Grant Cannon.
	Sister Grant was herself an ideal home-
maker in every sense of the word. Her
very presence was restful, and her own
home in the Thirteenth ward where she re-
sided for many long years, had the bracing
atmosphere of real home life. Sister Grant
may have inherited this distinctive attribute
from her Dutch ancestry, and it is also a
characteristic of the Quakers or Friends,
and Sister Rachel really had the air, the
tone and mannerism of the Quakers.
	The writer has a faint remembrance of
Miss Ivins as she first saw her in Nauvoo.
She was dressed in silk, with a handsome
lace collar or fichu, and an elegant shawl
over her shoulders, and a long white lace
veil thrown back over her simple straw bon-
net. She carried an elaborate feather fan,
and now in thinking of fans, we recall the
fascination of that fan, one could easily dis-
cern the subdued Quaker pride in her method
of using it.
	The poem, “Grandmother’s Fan,” would
be an appropriate one for her many grand-
daughters.
	Years after first seeing her in Nauvoo,
when she came to the valley in 1853, and
we became intimately acquainted she was
still the same fastidious, born Quaker.
	Elder Heber J. Grant may well be proud
of his grand and noble mother and of her
antecedents. Her forefathers and fore-
mothers were distinguished people; in the
exceptionally well-written article by May
Booth Talmage, published in the Young
Woman’s Journal in April, 1908, she gives
some points concerning the ancestry of Sis-
ter Rachel Grant. One of these the daugh-
ter of a wealthy nobleman of Amsterdam,

[Column 2]
Holland, married an English Knight. The
girl’s father opposed the marriage because
the man was of inferior rank, and became
very bitter when he ascertained the marriage
had been consummated. The young peo-
ple fearing his power to separate them in
their own country, came to America, and it
is said established the Shreve family in this
country. Its members have been conspicu-
ous in the history of New Jersey, and
“Sister Rachel” is one of the descendants.
	Sister Grant, whose maiden name was
Rachel Ridgeway Ivins was the daughter of
Caleb Ivins (whose grandmother was a
Shreve) and of Edith Ridgeway, his wife.
Their home was in the state of New Jersey,
where little Rachel was born, March 7,
1821. Her father was a merchant, though
living upon a farm with a beautiful orchard
in which also grew chestnut, hickory and
walnut trees; he owned besides his own
store, a gristmill and sawmill. Caleb Ivins
was greatly beloved and was Christened by
his neighbors, “The good Samaritan.” His
wife, report says, was a lovely, spirited
woman, and both Mr. and Mrs. Ivins be-
longed to the Quakers or the Society of
Friends. Afterwards Mrs. Ivins joined the
Baptist Church.
	Rachel Ivins was but six years of age
when her father died, and her mother three
years afterwards.
	These sad events changed the home life
of the family; the children were separated,
Rachel went to Trenton, New Jersey to the
home of her cousin, Joshua Wright, where
she remained until eighteen years of age.
It was in this home she learned the arts of
housewifery though her relatives remon-
strated, saying, “such work belonged to the
servants.” She herself said, as quoted in
Sister Talmage’s article, “I could see the
hand of the Lord in this shortly after com-
ing to Utah and having to assume such
practical responsibilities.”
	Sometime after Miss Ivins went to live in
Hornerstown, New Jersey, with an uncle,
Richard Ridgeway, whose wife had died,
and it was during her stay there she first
heard the Gospel. She has quite frequently
told the story of how “after being induced
to go and hear the Elders preach, she went
home and prayed that the Lord would for-
give her for doing so wicked a thing on the
Sabbath day.”
	However she continued to go notwith-
standing the Baptist minister “declared
that if she did not cease she must give up
her seat in the church.”
	Becoming thoroughly convinced of the
truth of the Gospel she braved the opposi-
tion of relatives and friends and became a
member of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, and in 1842 went to
Nauvoo with some of her cousins of the
Ivins family, who built a handsome home
near the banks of the Mississippi river, and
who were true friends to the Prophet Joseph.
	Miss Ivins then became well acquainted
with the Prophet Joseph and his associates,
passing through the trying and thrilling ex-
periences of the Nauvoo persecutions, cul-
minating finally in the terrible tragedy of
the martyrdom of the Prophet and Patri-
arch, Joseph and Hyrum Smith.
	Subsequently following these sorrowful
events the Ivins family went back to New
Jersey, Sister Rachel accompanying them.
	In 1853, August 10, Miss Rachel Ivins
came to Salt Lake City, and has lived here
ever since. In November, 1855, she was
married to Jedediah Morgan Grant and
November 22, 1856, a son was born to Sister

[Column 3]
Rachel Grant, named Heber Jedediah, and
on December 1st, 1856, she was left a wid-
ow, but she had her babe, a child of prom-
ise, born in the new and everlasting cove-
nant of marriage.
	Her wealthy relatives in the East en-
treated her to return to them and she would
be amply provided for with no struggle for
herself and child; but like a veritable Saint
indeed she refused all such offers, prefer-
ring to make her own way among those to
whom she was more strongly attached than
the kindred, who were not believers in her
faith.
	Sister Rachel Grant prospered in all her
endeavors and always had friends among
the people, who were proud of her integrity
and her devotion to her religion. She was
an excellent seamstress and an economist,
although she had been reared in luxury; she
adapted herself to conditions and her home
was always a pattern of neatness, and one
would scarcely believe she earned her living
by her needle, or by keeping boarders.
	During those days when her son Heber
was a little boy she often entertained in the
most hospitable way her friends and some-
times very distinguished guests, and in her
own quaint way quoting again from Mrs.
Talmage’s article “They loved to come and
I loved to have them and ofttimes Heber
and I would live on very scanty fare that
we might have the greater pleasure of pro-
viding sommething good to share with our
friends.”
	It has been our privilege to know Aunt
Rachel as we call her intimately ever since
the organization of the Relief Society in the
thirteenth ward in this city. She was chosen
President in April, 1868, and filled the posi-
tion with great credit and dignity for thirty-
five years. Her first Counselors were Annie
T. Godbe and Margaret T. Mitchell, when
Mrs. Godbe was released Sister Bathsheba
W. Smith was selected to fill the vacancy;
and subsequently when Sister Mitchell’s
husband was called on a mission to the
Sandwich Islands and to take his family, Sister 
Mitchell was released and Sister Lydia Ann
Wells was chosen to fill the vacancy, this was
in 1873.
	In 1882 Sister Bathsheba W. Smith moved
from her home in the Historian’s Office to
the seventeenth ward. Sister Lydia Ann
Wells was set apart as First Counselor and
Sister Louisa K. Spencer was chosen Second
Counselor; with these Counselors and other
officers, teachers and members of the So-
ciety over which Sister Grant presided, there
was a strong bond of affection uniting them
together due largely to the leadership and
executive ability of the presiding officers,
who were all of them women of energy and
zeal as well as faith in the Gospel.
	Sister Grant was all her life associated
with the foremost women in the Church;
Sisters Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H. Young and
Bathsheba W. Smith with others, too many
to mention here, were her constant com-
panions. When these sisters began to travel
among the sisters outside of Salt Lake City,
Sister Rachel Grant was one selected to aid
in this work. She was a woman of mighty
faith and possessed of unusual power in ad-
ministering to the sick and afflicted.
	Sister Grant’s serenity of mind and patient
endurance under all circumstances was mar-
velous; for many years she had been afflict-
ed with deafness possibly the result of quinzy
or severe throat trouble, yet she uttered no
complaint, although she realized to an al-
most painful degree the embarrassment of
the difficulty, as well as the disadvantage


[Column 1]
of not being able to converse freely with her
friends, and to hear the conversation going on
about her. In a way she was shut out from
society, yet she was a great favorite with all
those, who knew her; a very attractive per-
sonality; she was fond of reading good books
especially Church literature; and was a very
fluent speaker and greatly gifted in prayer.
Even years after her hearing was gone when
she spoke in the meetings of the Saints, one
could not realize she had sat during the en-
tire service without hearing a word; her re-
marks were always interesting and in keep-
ing with the spirit of the meeting.
	Sister Rachel Grant has left quite a pos-
terity although she had only one child of
her own. Ten beautiful grand-daughters and
six great grandchildren, all strongly attached
to her, and mourning her loss; and her son
Heber J, most devoted, loving and tender,
always giving his best to his mother; and
the mother and son have been from his in-
fancy companions and comrades, all that
could possibly spring of joy and gladness,
sympathy and comfort to each other, to
make life desirable, and laudable ambition
a hope and reality. Such ties are stronger
than death, and even in advanced age
mother love is still the dearest thing on
earth. Sister Rachel Grant will live im-
perishably in the hearts of her friends and
her kindred.
	For her there was a glorious reception on
the other side, her husband, dear ones of
her own family and household, and the in-
numerable company of Saints to bid her
welcome in their midst.
	The funeral of Sister Grant was held in
the twenty-seventh ward chapel at 11 o’clock
Friday, January 29, 1909, Bishop James
Maxwell presiding. The chapel was filled
with friends and many prominent business
men of the city. The pulpit and stand were
draped in white with ferns and vines.
	Floral tributes in profusion and in many
beautiful designs. The First Presidency of
the Church and several of the Apostles were
on the stand.
	The service opened with a quartet consis-
ting of Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Miss
Mabel Cooper, George D. Pyper and Horace
S. Ensign, singing, “Thou dost not weep to
weep alone.” Prayer was offered by Elder
Jos. E. Taylor. Elder George D. Pyper sang
a solo “Sister thou wast mild and lovely.”
Elder John Henry Smith was the first
speaker, he said Sister Grant was “faithful
and true, devoted and earnest, a true soldier
of the cross; she had been a guardian angel
among the sick and the afflicted an ex-
emplar of the ideals we hold most dear in
our lives.” He paid an eloquent tribute to
her as a mother, neighbor, friend and Saint.
	President Richard W. Young spoke ten-
derly of the many virtues of “Aunt Rachel”
and the wisdom of her counsel and devotion
to the cause of truth, “She has died with
the love of all who knew her, God will wel-
come such as she.”
	President John R. Winder alluded to the
encouragement he had received from Sister
Rachel Grant and her husband Jedediah M.
Grant (who had preceded her in death many
years) when he first met them in Salt Lake
City 55 years ago; he recounted several in-
cidents that had taken place in her life in
which the nobility of her character was
shown.
	President Anthon H. Lund expressed in a
few choice words his high regard for the de-
parted sister and her son Elder Heber J.
Grant; mentioned the fact of her son being
too young to remember his father when he

[Column 2]
died, but who through his mother’s teach-
ings, had become honored as one of the
Apostles of the Lord.
	Elder Horace S. Ensign then sang “O my
Father” to the old tune which was so fami-
liar to Sister Rachel.
	President Joseph F. Smith spoke in the
most endearing terms of Aunt Rachel Grant
and declared she had been to him dearer
than a mere sister or friend; remarked upon
her loveliness in appearance, and in her
thoughts and actions; he also dwelt upon
the eternal perpetuity of the family relation-
ship as revealed through the Prophet Joseph
Smith, how wives should meet their hus-
bands and parents their children in the re-
surrection. The sermon was full of food for
thought and emphasized with great emotion,
it was a very profound discourse.
	“Farewell all earthly honors,’’ was ren-
dered by the quartet, and the closing prayer
offered by Elder Rulon S. Wells.
	A long procession of carriages followed
the remains to the grave, where the hymn
“Rest on the hill side rest” was sung and
the grave dedicated by Elder J. Hyrum Grant,
as the last earthly resting place of one
honored and beloved a mother in Israel.
“So He brings them home to rest, with the Vic-
	tors crowned and blest.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		HERE AND THERE.
	The new and strange events constantly
transpiring here and elsewhere throughout
the world are so many and various, that it is
quite impossible to keep posted even if one
had time to read the daily papers including
all telegraphic dispatches; therefore one
must be content with here a little and there
a little, and perhaps better not to know too
much.
	Waves of disaster by sea and by land, all
sorts of calamities and accidents transpir-
ing, and commotions and troubles, and wars
in countries afar off and notwitstanding all
these destructive forces great movements
in the way of progress are made, numerous
discoveries and inventions; colonizing new
countries and opening up facilities for agri-
culture and commerce, and for speedy com-
munication over long distances, both on
the ocean and on land, such as were not
dreamed of forty or fifty years ago—one can-
not help wondering what we are coming to;
or what will be the next step in advance-
ment towards a higher state of civilization.
	Will it be communication with the people
on the planet Mars? Who can tell? Un-
doubtedly the great effort to ascertain if
Mars is inhabited or not will soon be made.
	One thing that the Latter-day Saints do
know, is that the Lord has in these last days
spoken from the heavens, and told his pro-
phets many wonderful things concerning what
would transpire in the world, during certain
periods of time and many of these things
predicted have already come to pass, and
have been fulfilled to the letter; others we
solemnly believe will be.
	Are this people giving heed there to?
	In our opinion many are: there has cer-
tainly been during the last seven or eight
years, great changes for the better. Quorums
and organizations have been set in order
more perfectly, and the people generally
have been more diligent and faithful in the
discharge of duties and obligations, and
greater harmony of action promoted.
	The many responsibilities resting upon
the sisters in the Church and especially
mothers seem to have increased, because of

[Column 2]
the tendency of the times towards greater
freedom of action, among the people gener-
ally than in former days, when things were
more primitive, and there were not so many
temptations in the way of the young people
—and we find this is not only the case in
cities, or large towns but even farther away
from great centres, similar tendencies pre-
vail to an almost alarming extent, is it for
lack of proper restraint? Very much has
been done by the Latter-day Saints; fathers
and mothers and heads of families have tried
to stem the current, and excesses of various
habits and customs, and yet one is appalled
at the prevalence of some of the evils once
entirely unknown and unheard of among
people of religious belief, or high moral
standards.
	It is useless perhaps to enumerate these
things, yet one is scarcely justified in being
silent on vital subjects, that undermine the
health and hinder the growth of the best and
highest attributes of the heart and soul.
	Extremes of all kinds are detrimental to
the individual in some ways and should al-
ways if possible be avoided.
	It may be that in the days long ago, our
people had too much hard work and priva-
tion, but the tendency was not hurtful ex-
cept perhaps in rare instances; but idleness
and disregard for law and order—and living
beyond one’s means, and trying to keep up
appearances beyond one’s actual income is
a great risk to one’s morals, and leads to
many evils, that cannot always be overcome
without lessening one’s opinion of himself
at least. The simple home life such as the
early settlers in this valley practised and
maintained, and was counseled by those who
practised what they preached was in itself
a protection and a veritable safeguard.
	A real home means much to children and
to family life altogether. In the early days
one felt a great pride and satisfaction in real-
izing that most of the Latter-day Saints owned
their own homes and a garden spot at least;
but now-a-days it is not so much thought of
or the fact appreciated, that to the children
it is so significant.  Home is of itself an
almost inexhaustible subject, a permanent
dwelling place where one can enjoy the tran-
quility, the peace, the restfulness that comes
from the society of loved ones, and where
there is protection from dangers and evil.
To be sure there are thousands yet among
our people who own their own homes, but
the fashion nowadays is to live in flats or
to board, among young people more espe-
cially. The humblest home on a piece of
land of one’s own is preferable. Let the
little children have the solid earth under
their feet, instead of hardwood floors, they
will enjoy life more and live longer.
	The counsel given by Brigham Young in
the early settlement of these mountain vales,
would be excellent to repeat at the present
time; he taught the real “simple life” by
precept and example. We hear some peo-
ple talk of the simple life as if it was a new
idea, we “Mormons” had the simple life
in fact and in sober earnest. Not that
one would like to go through all those
experiences again, but better even that in
the way of dress and of food, than some
of the hideous fashions of the day; and the
elaborate cookery.

	And now a word to the sisters about sav-
ing grain, the outlook at the present is not
very hopeful as regards the supply of bread-
stuffs for future need. The “Mormon”
women are the only womne who have grain
stored against a time of need, and it is quite


necessary that they should be on the watch
to protect that which is stored; and to re-
plenish their granaries, for should there
really be a lack of breadstuff, the money in
the bank would not help them.
	It is a long time now since the counsel
was given, and doubtless some have grown
weary of taking care of the wheat stored,
but surely all rejoice that so far there has
not been such great necessity for its being
disbursed, yet to be prepared for such an
emergency must be a satisfaction in itself.
And after all the grain on hand would not
be sufficient to feed a great army of hungry
people. To have granaries full of wheat is
something women-need never be ashamed
of, and if in a good state of preservation it
is certainly commendable for any commun-
ity, and quite a remarkable undertaking
for women, yet quite in keeping with a
charitable society organized for benevolent
purposes. And it is a sacred duty and obli-
gation to keep it against a time of scarcity
and famine.
	It is a step in a direction never under-
taken by women before in any period of the
world, and as the counsel came from Presi-
dent Brigham Young, prophet, seer and rev-
elator, there is every reason to believe that
he foresaw the wisdom of such a movement,
in order to keep a supply of grain on hand
for any emergency that might arise, that the
children might not cry for bread as in the
time of the grasshopper devastation. The
fact of taking care of the grain stored cannot
be emphasized too much.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


BIRTHDAY PARTY.
	At the handsome residence of Mr. and
Mrs. Ovando Beebe, Wednesday, March 24,
1909, a delightful afternoon party was given
in honor of Mrs. Beebe’s mother Sister Em-
ma S. Woodruff, whose birthday occurs
March 1st, but as that is also the anniver-
sary of the late President Wilford Woodruff’s
birthday and is generally celebrated by all
his numerous posterity, it is only fitting that
Sister Emma should have a select party of
her own intimate friends. It was the real
birthday of Sister Amelia McDonald and she
was a guest of honor with sister Woodruff.
After an hour or two spent in greeting and
congratulations the guests were called to the
spacious dining room, where two long tables
were set with elegant china service and cut
glass, each table for twenty persons;
beautiful flowers in profusion shed sweet
fragrance, but best of all were the dear faces
of old-time friends, and the hum of happy
voices made time fly swiftly. At each plate
a card with name and motto.
	Sisters Woodruff and McDonald were
seated side by side at the head of one of the
tables, and it is needless to add that they
were beautifully dressed.
	The menu was perfect in all its details,
and served by charming young girls which
added zest to the enjoyment of the delicious
repast. Toasts were given by some of the
ladies present to which the two guests of
honor responded in a few choice words. In
fact the affair might well be termed a festive
occasion, and one long to be remembered
for its good cheer and harmony of fellow-
ship.
	These social gatherings are essentially
restful to women who lead busy lives. Mrs.
Beebe is to be congratulated on the brilliant
success of the entertainment, and certainly
the ladies will agree that she is a charming
hostess.


SOCIAL HALL PARTIES.
	The Genealogical Society gave an unique
entertainment in the Social Hall in honor
of the home coming of President Joseph F.
Smith and party after the visit to the Sand-
which Islands and to the descendants of the
founders of the Church.
	Supper was served in the dining room
three tables the entire length of the room
being filled with guests and served by the
members of the Society to every variety of
delicacies to satisfy the most fastidious Epi-
curean.
	The surprise however was in giving on a
screen of canvass arranged on the platform
pictures in Church history, commencing with
the birthplace of the Prophet Joseph Smith
and showing the progress of the work in its
advancement from place to place, and year
to year. It was distinctively original in its
presentation and its delineation, on the can-
vass. Sister Susa Young Gates herself made
suitable explanations as the pictures were
changed, which made it easy for the un-
initiated to comprehend all the details of
the progress of the proceedings. Toward the
close when Nauvoo was given President Jos-
eph F. Smith gave briefly interesting remi-
niscences of those days and his childish re-
collections of some soul-stirring events that
transpired.
	Sister Gates like her illustrious father
Brigham Young has a fertile brain.

	The Genealogical Society gave a party
Thursday eyening, April 8th, in honor of the
veterans of the famous Zion’s camp that went
up to Missouri in 1834, leaving Kirtland in
the month of April; the Prophet Joseph
Smith being in charge of the company con-
sisting of over one hundred and fifty able-
bodied men with twenty baggage wagons.
History has recorded this remarkable journey
made on foot in that early day. Of all those
who went forth at that time young and vig-
orous only one man (so far as known) sur-
vives today, Brother Nathan Tanner now
ninety-four years of age, on his birthday
May 14, 1909. Brother Tanner’s daughter
came with her venerable father and her hus-
band, Hon. F. S. Richards, to the party.
	This veteran survivor attended the party
in the Social Hall and spoke to the people
giving briefly some salient points of the re-
markable journey being commemorated.
	Elder W. W. Riter made some explana-
tions, in regard to that remote but interest-
ing period when the Church was in its infancy.
It is well that the younger members of the
Church should know from living witnesses
some of the struggles of the early days in
the establishing of this great work which has
grown to such large proportions. Brother
Tanner cannot have too much honor for the
part he has taken not only in Zion’s camp
but in pioneering in this Western country.
	He was ploughing in the field when he
was called to go up to Missouri a lad nine-
teen years of age. It was a sort of perilous
undertaking. Looking back upon it Brother
Tanner must feel a great satisfaction in re-
calling his intimate association with the
great Prophet of this last dispensation.
	There was good music and dancing and
the evening was enjoyable because of re-
miniscences and greetings of old friends and
acquaintances, even for those who did not
dance.


SISTERS BADGER AND NUTTALL.
	It seems rather a remarkable coincidence
that Sisters Annie Taylor Hyde and Sophia
Taylor Nuttall both of one family should de-
part this life so near to each other one on 
March 12 and the other March 20. Sister
Harriet Ann Taylor Badger another sister 
only five months previous.
	Both Sister Badger and Sister Nuttall had
been missionaries in the General Relief So-
ciety for some years and faithful in perform-
ing service whenever called to go out among
the sisters.
	Sister Hyde as is well known was Counse-
lor to the President of the General Society
so all these sisters had been associated in
this important work.
	Sister Nuttall had visited some of the far-
away Stakes Alberta and Taylor in Canada,
and quite a number of others North and
South; she was full of zeal and was humble
in spirit, and gentle in manner, always had
a smile and kind word for her friends.
	At a meeting of the Relief Society of the
Seventeenth ward held Tuesday, January 19,
1909, at the residence of Brother and Sister
Andrew Jenson Sister Nuttall bore her testi-
mony to the Gospel, and gave some good in-
structions to the sisters she testified of the
goodness of God in raising her from a bed
of sickness; and those who saw her on that
occasion felt she would live to go among
the people again, and labor in the Society
as heretofore. We had no idea then we
should never hear or see her in this life but
this was her last public message to the sis-
ters, though we knew it not.
	The meeting was a reunion and birthday
party as well in honor of Sister Fanny T.
Howell an English sister the mother of Sis-
ters Andrew Jenson, who was 80 years of
age on that day and also Sister Abbie
H. Cowley’s birthday who was present.
It was a sort of banquet, and geniality
and congratulations which made it a very
happy occasion. Sister Nuttall participated
in it and enjoyed the affair seemingly as
much as the others. Thus it is in the midst
of life, we know not who may be called next.
There was very good music also; solo sing-
and recitations, and General President Bath-
sheba W. Smith spoke feelingly of the ward 
where she had for Borne time been President
of that Society and mentioned some of those
associated with her in the work who had
since passed away, spoke in praise of Sister
Marinda N. Hyde an intimate friend and
neighbor the former President; it was a very
interesting meeting and a good spirit, many
excellent things were said worthy of record
and remembrance.
	Sister Sophia T. Nuttall’s funeral was held
in the Seventeenth Ward Chapel on Tues-
day, March 23, Bishop F. S. Tingey in
charge. The speakers were Elder Matthias
Cowley, President John R. Winder and Pre-
sident Anthon H. Lund, also the Bishop; all
testified of the excellent traits of character
of the deceased; her beautiful motherhood,
her devotion as a wife, and particularly as a
neighbor and friend.
	There were many lovely floral offerings
and the hall was tastefully draped in white,
fitting emblem of purity. The Relief Society
sisters in the big Utah with a profusion of
flowers occupied a suitable place in the pro-
cession that followed the remains of the de-
parted to the grave.
	May our Heavenly Father comfort and
console the orphan children who are left
fatherless and motherless, and may they fol-
low in the footsteps of their honored father
and mother Brother and Sister Nuttall.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Thursday afternoon, February 26, the Au-
thor’s Club gave a reunion and banquet in
the spacious hall of the Lion House. This
club is one of the most popular in Utah and
the members are almost all University
graduates. On this occasion although visi-
tors are not usually admitted there were two
guests Aunt Emm. Wells and Mrs. Preston
J. Cannon, the members were nearly all
present, the hall was artistically decorated,
the club colors red and sage green being
carried out, making the room very pictur-
esque. There were twenty at table each
lady having a place card and the President
Mrs. Harriet B. Harker the hostess in a very
gracious manner gave the fullest liberty to
each one present. Mrs. Augusta W. Grant
was toast-mistress and wit and humor pre-
vailed freely. There were a few piano selec-
tions rendered and one or two songs, but so-
cial chat predominated.
	Monday, March first, some of the members
of the General Board of the Relief Society
came as a sort of surprise to the headquarters,
to spend an hour or two as a reminder of
Aunt Emm.’s birthday and the plain simple
refreshments and dainty flowers were very
much appreciated and pleasing; but the
faces of dear friends on these annual oc-
casions are always like golden milestones
along the way of the years. A miniature
bank filled with silver was presented with a
very graceful speech by Sister Carrie S.
Thomas in behalf of the Board. There are
no fitting words in which to properly
acknowledge these honors therefore one is at
the mercy of one’s friends when favors are
bestowed in such unobtrusive ways.
	The U. W. P. C. and Reapers’ Social gave
a party in honor of Aunt Em., March 12, at
the elegant new home of the President, Mrs.
J. Q. Critchlow; about forty ladies were as-
sembled and there were original poems read
and selections from Musings and Memories
(Mrs. Wells book of verses) and the lady
was presented with a handsome opera cloak;
Mrs. Maria Francis speaking eloquently for
the donors. The affair was a very happy
one and the literary numbers were very ap-
propriate also the kind words and affectionate
sentiments.
	What can one say to one’s friends for the
many blessings, benefits and favors bestowed,
only—“This is the message that ye heard
froni the beginning, that we should love one
another.” 1 John 3: 2.


[Column 1]
	CELEBRATION PORTLAND RELIEF
			SOCIETY.
Sixty-seventh anniversary of the organization
	of the Relief Society celebrated in
		Portland, Oregon.
	At five o’clock in the afternoon of the 17th
inst. the Relief Society met in the Latter-
day Saints’ Church and held a most inter-
esting meeting presided over by Relief So-
ciety President Sister Sarah M. Pratt.
	After the preliminary exercises Sister Pratt
made some opening remarks explaining why
we celebrate that day throughout the Relief
Society of the Church. She said that it
was because the first organization of this
society wss brought about by Joseph Smith,
the Prophet sixty-seven years ago today and
was the very first woman’s society ever or-
ganized for public work, in the United States
or the world. She bade the sisters welcome
and rejoiced at their presence. She also bade
President Pratt welcome as he had met with
them upon this occasion.

[Column 2]
	The hymns sung in the opening exercises,
were “Praise to the Man Who Communed
with Jehovah” and “We Thank Thee Oh!
God for a Prophet.”
	Sister Pratt read a communication from
General President of the Relief Society,
Sisters Bathsheba W. Smith and General
Secretary Emmeline B. Wells.
	Sketches from the lives of the various Re-
lief Society Presidents, Secretaries and other
officers, had been prepared with great care,
and were listened to with profound enjoy-
ment as they were read before the Society.
One especially interesting a historical sketch
of Sister Peter Whitmer at whose house the
plates were being translated, which necessi-
tated the taking care of and the cooking for
Joseph Smith the Prophet, his wife Emma
and Oliver Cowdery, making her work very
laborious, and adding additional burdens to
her already heavy load, which had begun to
discourge her somewhat. In order that she
might be comforted and strengthened for the
additional burdens, the Angel Moroni met
her and exhibited to her the plates contain-
ing the Nephite record, and turned the leaves
over, one by one, before her eyes and bore
witness that the translation of these records
was the work of God, such consolation and
strength were given to her by this glorious
manifestation that she went about her work
cheerfully during the time that the visitors
remained at her house.
	In this manner and with some very happy
and consoling remarks from President Pratt
the afternoon and early evening were spent.
	As a continuation of this celebration the
Saints of the whole ward met together about
seven thirty in the evening. After partaking
of refreshments prepared by various sisters
of the society the choir again rendered the
hymn “Praise to the Man who Communed
with Jehovah” and after the opening prayer,
three members of the choir and their leader
Elder John E. Evans rendered in the most
pleasing manner the quartett “Come where
the Lilies Bloom;” then an address of wel-
come by the President of the Relief Society,
after which songs, recitations and readings
followed each other in quick succession,
most of these pieces were sacred, one of them
being entitled “The Assassination of Joseph
and Hyrum Smith” by Eliza R. Snow; read
by President Pratt.
	To make a final climax to the enjoyment
of the evening a comedy in one act entitled
“Obstinacy” was most creditably performed
by six young people of the ward, trained
under the supervision of Elder John E.
Evans.
	Our Church was well filled and this cele-
bration was generally voted a grand success
by those who were present.
			SADIE M. Pratt, President,
			IDA DAY, Secretary.


17th OF MARCH ANNIVERSARY.
	The seventeenth of March was a bright
and sunny day, in our Dixie land. The Re-
lief Society of the East and West St. George
wards assembled at 3 o’clock in the Lyceum
to celebrate the day, on which, 67 years ago
the work was begun, which has since played
so important apart in the lives of the women
of Zion.
	The meeting was presided over by Presi-
dent Esther Whitehead of the West St.
George ward.
	After the opening exercises Sister Ann C.
Woodbury gave a short talk on the early or-
ganizations of the society, after which Stake


Counselor Aggie Windsor sang, “Daughters
of Zion,” composed by Sister Annie Wells
Cannon. Two pieces were read giving inter-
esting items on the first organization and
short talks were given by Sisters Emma
Morris and Stake Counselor Elida Snow,
interspersed with some very sweet songs.
	A good spirit prevailed and the sisters felt
encouraged to press forward with renewed
energy in the good cause, for it certainly is
a glorious work in which we are engaged.
	The only thing to be regreted was the ab-
sence of the Stake President Cornelia Brooks,
who was unable to attend on account of
sickness.		LEONORA WORTHEN, Sec.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	At the annual meeting of the Relief Society of
the Parker ward, Idaho, March 17th, 1909 the fol-
lowing resolutions were unanimously passed:
	Whereas, the eternal Father has seen fit in His
infinite wisdom, to call to himself our beloved
Sister Juliet Rice.
	Be it resolved, that the members of this Society,
sincerely mourn the loss of their cheerful co-
laborer, and faithful associate in the cause of hu-
man aid and fellowship.
	Also be it resolved, that a copy of these resolu-
tions be sent to the bereaved family. A copy
furnished the Woman’s Exponent, for publication,
and they be entered upon the secretary’s record
of the Parker Relief Society.
	As cheering as the sun’s bright ray,
		She shed her light upon our way,
	Her genial presence cheered our gloom
		As dewy roses waft perfums
	Dear friend, fond mother, faithful wife,
		Fit subject for eternal life!
								COM.


OBITUARY.
	Sister Ellison Gourley departed this life, Febru-
ary 13, 1909, after an illness of two weeks. Aged
76 years.
	She was born at Garco, Lanarkshire, Scotland.
At the age of 19 years she married Elder Paul
Gourley a widower with 5 children.
	She emigrated to Utah in 1856, coming with the
last hand cart company arriving in Salt Lake
City, about the 1st of December. The reason she
came with the last company, her husband being
a cartwright stopped back on the Iowa camp
ground making carts for the rest of the people.
She was in Captain Larkins company. She suf-
fered much on the plains being ill almost all the
way. She had two children of her own, one of
which died on the plains; and the other after she
arrived in Salt Lake City. She lived in the 11th
ward of Salt Lake City until she moved to Goshen
in 1858 with her husband and family.
	She was one of the most prominent women of
the Goshen ward, being a teacher in the Sunday
School from its first organization and a member
of the choir, and was counselor in the Relief So-
ciety for many years.
	She has been a widow for 19 years, has lived
alone during that time, the children of her hus-
band all being married.
	She visited the sick of all classes and did much
good in caring for the same and helping the needy,
and dressing the dead.
	She was a very sweet singer and loved to sing
the Songs of Zion until her death. While she was
lying on her deathbed she sang some of the hymns
and she seemed to enjoy doing so.
	She was beloved by many, many people for her
cheerful disposition, generous heart, her kind
acts, and good deeds.
			RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas—Our Heavenly Father has seen fit to
call from our midst our beloved sister
	Therefore—be it resolved by the members of
Goshen Relief Society that we will cherish her
memory and emulate her good deeds, and re-
member her sweet smiling face and cheerful dis-
position.
	Resolved that we spread upon the record of the
Relief Society these resolutions and send a copy
to the Woman’s Exponent for publication.
	Rest in peace our dear kind sister,
		We will miss her from our ward.
	She proved faithful to the gospel,
		And has gone to her reward.
						Annie M. Lichfield,
						Lucy P. Taylor, 
								Committee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A LOVING TRIBUTE.
	Sister Sophia T. Nuttall, daughter of the
late President John Taylor and wife of the
late L. John Nuttall departed this life March
20th, 1909, at her home on West Temple
Street. She was ill for several months dur-
ing which time she was patient and long
suffering, always expressing a desire to live
for her children and to finish her work on
earth acceptably to her Father in Heaven,
yet she would say, “I am ready if the call
comes.”
	Sister Nuttall was born July 14th, 1849,
in Salt Lake City. She left three children
to follow in her footsteps, William Taylor
Nuttall, Mrs. Geo. B. Andrus and Mary Tay-
lor Nuttall.
	Her passing away was like falling into a
peaceful sleep which was her faith it would
be, as in a recent Patriarchal Blessing she
was told she should not taste of death, but
her spirit should take its flight as a babe
falling into a quiet slumber.
	By her death the 17th Ward Relief Society
sincerely feel that they have lost a wise
counselor, an experienced instructor, a faith-
ful worker and trusted friend. For such she
was, having for the foundation of her life’s
work the spirit of the Gospel of Christ ob-
tained by a life of sacrifice and devotion to
the principles of the Gospel in the possession
of which success is sure. She was the oldest
worker in the society, having served as coun-
selor to Sister Bathsheba W. Smith as early
as the year 1894. Afterwards laboring as
Sister Clarissa Williams’ counselor for seven
years and in her last days she was counselor
to Sister Fidelia Jacobs.
	The long and loving associations with her
have endeared her to the society, which will
remain with them until it is renewed in the
life to come.		ABBIE H. COWLEY.
	In behalf of the 17th Ward Relief Society.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
BEAR RIVER STAKE.
	The first Relief Society conference of the
Bear River stake of Zion, convened at the
Garland hall, Friday, January 8th, at 10 a.
m. and 2 p. m.
	There were present Stake President Milton
H. Welling, Counselor P. M. Hansen, four
members of the High Council, two bishops,
Clarissa S. Williams and Rebecca Nibley of
the General Relief Society Board, President
Susannah P. Booth and Mary J. Harding
of the Box Elder stake Relief Society and
President Caroline E. Facer of the Malad
stake Relief Society, the Bear River stake
Presidency and members of the board.
	President Julia A. Richards presided.
After the opening exercises, reports were
given by the presidents of the ward organiza-
tions, who expressed themselves as deeply
interested in the Relief Society work.
	President Richards reported the visits of
herself aud associates to all the wards of the
Stake, which were found to be in a live, ac-
tive condition.
	President Susannah P. Booth bore her
testimony to the great good of the benevolent
cause and was thankful to be a worker in
the same.
	Instrumental solo—Miss Lera Clark.
	Vocal solo—Mrs. Mary E. Wanlass.
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams had enjoyed
the reports and felt that as a new stake we
were much favored. Gave words of instruc-
tion and encouragement to the sisters.
	During the noon hour delicious refresh-
ments were served.


At the afternoon session the same presid-
ing authorities were present and there was a
large attendance of members. The roll call
showed all the wards represented.
	Sister Rebecca Nibley spoke of the neces-
sity of us sustaining prohibition and urged
that mothers and wives use their influence
in helping loved ones to abstain from intoxi-
cants, etc.
	Solo—“Daughters of Zion”—Sister Essie
Foulger.
	Sisters Caroline E. Facer and Marv J.
Harding, each made a few remarks relating
to Relief Society work.
	President Milton H. Welling spoke of his
appreciation of the Relief Society work and
gave good counsel and advice to the sisters
present.
	Sister Clarissa Williams spoke of the duty
of one toward another, Said, “It is for us to
do all we can for our Father’s children. We
should live near each other, love each other
and be kind and attentive to all even the
non-Mormons who may be in our midst.
Extended the love and blessing of President
Bathsheba Smith to the sisters of the new
Bear River stake.
	Sister Nibley then called for a vote of all
those who would sustain prohibition. The
vote was unanimous.
	President Julia A. Richards expressed her
pleasure at having had such a successful
conference and felt that we had received
much that would encourage us in our duties.
	Prayer—Sister Eva Wilcox.
				MARGARET W. MANNING,
								Secretary.


NINETEENTH WARD HALL.
	The Relief Society of the 19th wa[-]d of the
Salt Lake stake of Zion, completed a hall
for their use for meetings, also for sewing,
and socials, etc., on February 1st, 1909.
	The building contains a front rooms 20x20
feet, and a kitchen, pantry, toilet, coal bin,
tables and cupboards, all under one roof.
	The building cost, including plumbing,
wireing and fixtures ($2,031.25) two thou-
sand thirty-one dollars and twenty-five cents.
The Society still owe about $600.00.
	At the opening, on February 25th, 1909,
72 people called in the afternoon, 107 in the
evening and 75 children on the following
afternoon. A program was rendered and re-
freshments were served.
	Among those present were three members
of the High Council, also Sisters H. B. Harker,
C. S. Williams, E. B. Wells, the Bishop and
Counselors, Pres, of Young Ladies Associa-
tion, Pres. Primary Association, Pres. Re-
ligion Class, and nearly every organization
of the ward was represented.
	It was a very enjoyable time, exercises
well rendered and good music.
				AGNES G. BRANCH,
							Secretary.


Rev. Anna H. Shaw sailed on April 10
for London, to attend the meeting of the
nternational Suffrage Alliance. Miss Lucy
E. Anthony and Miss Caroline Crossett ac-
companied her.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Madame Sarah Grand is to deliver an ad-
dress of welcome at the International Suf-
rage Convention in London.
	Olive Schreiner is about to bring out a
book entitled “Closer Union for South Afri-
ca.” It deals with the political situation.
	Mrs. Fanny Friedman has just did at the
home of her daughter, Mrs. Bertha Burger,
244 East 85th street, New York City, aged
112 years and three months.
	“Miss Ethel L. Arnold says she hopes the
American public “will not be misled by the
lying newspaper reports which represent the
suffragettes as biting, kicking and scratch-
ing the London police.” Evidently some
English journals are as “yellow” as any in 
this country.”
	Over 1,000 representative women from 26
counties of New York State appeared be-
fore the judiciary committee of both Houses
of the Legislature at Albany in behalf of the
amendment striking the word “male” from
the suffrage clause of the State Constitu-
tion.
	Josiah Taft, grandson of Robert Taft, the
immigrant who settled in Uxbridge, Mass.,
in 1680, was at his death the largest tax-
payer in Uxbridge.
	The town meeting granted his widow the
right of suffrage during her son’s minority.
She exercised it creditably to her intellig-
ence.
	On one occasion, the Province of Mas-
sachusetts Bay made a special demand upon
the towns for money (possibly for some
military emergency), and it was the widow
Taft’s vote in town meeting which carried
the question,—her patriotism being shown
by her support of the measure.
		Ex.					C.A.B.
	The 41st Convention of the National
American Woman Suffrage Association will
be held in Seattle, Wash., July 1 to 7 in-
clusive.
	This marvelous city of the Pacific Coast
in twenty years has multiplied its popula-
tion twenty times, increasing from 15,000 to
300,000, a growth unparalleled in the his-
tory of cities. To those who have had the
opportunity of visiting it, howeyer, this
growth is not wonderful, considering its ad-
vantages in relation to ocean transportation,
its commercial possibilities, both local and
foreign, and over and beyond everything
else, its unrivalled scenic beauty.
	The members and friends of the conven-
tion will go to Seattle in a special train from
Chicago, with through sleepers, and upon
arrival at Spokane, the eastern boundary of
the State, we shall be met by “The Woman
Suffrage Special,” and escorted to Seattle,
stopping en route at Pasco, North Yakima
and Tacoma, each city vieing with the other
in extending courtesies and entertainments.
	On account of the Alaska Yukon Exposi-
tion, the exceedingly low rate of $62 for the
round trip has been authorized from Chica-
go, with return until Oct. 31.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
						67-69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY		LADIES' READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS	TRY US
					OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 37.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY, 1909.						No. 8.


CONTENTS.
										PAGE
President Bathsheba W. Smith. . . . . . . E. B. W.	57
The Statue of Queen Louise. . . Lydia D. Alder	58
International Council Quinquennial. . . . . . . . . .
	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Lillian M. Hollister	59
An Important Gathering of Women. . . . . . . . . . 
	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . C. W. Penrose	60
Incidents in the Life of Lydia Pond Rich. . . . . . 
	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . Lydia Rich	61
Obituaries. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	62
In Memoriam of Mabel Ann Hakes. . . . . . . . . .	52
In Memoriam of Anna Kleinmann. . . . . . . . . . .	62
Relief Society Stake Reports: Uintah—Nebo
	—Teton—Alpine. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	63
Julia Ward Howe Post Card. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	64
Mrs. Howe at 90. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	64
A Vietory in Switzerland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	64
The International Suffrage Song. . . . . . . . . . . . .	64
Notes and News. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	64
Editorial:—Old Memories. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	60
	One More in Heaven. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	60
	Editorial Note. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	60
Poetry:—Growing Old Gracefully. . . . Selected	57
	The Little Stranger. . . . . . . . Maud Russell	59


GROWING OLD GRACEFULLY
Softly and softly, the years have swept by thee,
	Touching thee lightly with tenderest care;
Sorrow and care did they often bring nigh thee,
	Yet they have left thee but beauty to wear;
		Growing old cheerfully,
			Graceful and fair.
Far from the storms that are washing the ocean
	Nearer each day to the pleasant home light,
Far from the waves that are big with commotion;
	Under full sail and the harbor in sight!
		Growing old cheerfully,
			Cheerful and bright.
Past all the winds that were adverse and chilling,
	Past all the islands that lured thee to rest,
Past all the currents that wooed thee unwilling,
	Far from the port of the land of the blest;
		Growing old peacefully,
			Peaceful and blest.
Never a feeling of envy and sorrow,
	Where the bright faces of childhood are seen,
Never a year from their youth wouldst thou bor-
		row,
	Thou dost remember what liest between;
			Growing old willingly,
				Gladly I ween.
Rich in experience that angels might covet,
	Rich in a faith that has grown with thy years,
Rich in a love that grew from above it,
	Soothing thy sorrows and hushing thy fears;
		Growing old wealthily,
			Loving and dear.
Hearts at the sound of thy coming are lightened,
	Ready and willing thy hand to relieve;
Many a face at thy kind words has brightened;
	It is more blessed to give than receive.
		Growing old happily,
			Blest we believe,
								Selected.


[Column 1]
PRESIDENT BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.
HER BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY.
	“Growing old gracefully” may well be
applied to our President of the Relief Socie-
ty, there is not time or space to tell all the
reasons why this saying is applicable, but if
one looks at her as she mingles in society or
as she moves about in her own home, and
more especially in the Temple, one cannot
but feel that she is a good illustration of the
poem given above.

[Column 2]
	Among the Latter-day Saint women, who 
are a connecting link between the past and
the present, from the days of the Prophet
Joseph Smith down to our own time, but
few remain. Foremost of the illustrious few,
we are proud and happy to mention Sister
Bathsheba W. Smith, whose birthday anni-
versary was recently celebrated with appro-
priate honors and the respect befitting her po-
sition as a Mother in Israel; one indeed, who
has ministered scores of years in holy places,
and officiated in sacred ordinances, to many
hundreds of the Daughters of Zion.
	Sister Smith holds the position of General
President of the Relief Society of the Church,
an organization founded by President Joseph
Smith himself sixty-seven years ago in the
city of Nauvoo—Illinois, (she became a 
member on the first day) and which Society
 has reached out into all countries where the
Gospel tidings have been carried and women
converted thereto.
	Through the systematic correllation of its
branches, women have been able to regulate
the principle of giving charity, and doing ac-
tive philanthropic work for the betterment
and uplifting of all the members of this So-
ciety everywhere and for others outside; re-
lieving both temporal and spiritual needs in
an unobtrusive and dignified way, and pro-
moting moral and educational progress
among those whose opportunities had been
limited, along these lines of advancement;
often owing to their surroundings and en-
vironments.
	Sister Smith has not only been at the head
of great public movements and benefits, both
presiding and assisting in managing, but she
has always been a delightful home-maker;
industrious, an early riser, economical, thrifty
even resourceful; and in the best sense
motherly.
	Her life has not been free from thorns and
briers, yet it has really been very beautiful
in many ways, and she has borne herself
heroically, when tried as by fire, and her 
faith has never wavered.
	Her illustrious husband Hon. George A.
Smith, cousin of the Prophet, and one of the 
most distinguished men in the Church, died 
over thirty years ago.
	A few years after his demise she built a
smaller home near the Temple and has re-
sided there permanently ever since.
	Although it is not a large or “stately man-
sion” she entertains her friends hospitably
and with the most cordial good cheer, for
she is a Southerner to the heart’s core, and
proud of her dear old Virginia birthplace.
	She has always cultivated flowers and her
neat, white cottage with green shutters, and
yard with its lilacs, roses, trailing myrtle,
holly-hocks, lackspur and other old-fashioned
flowering plants and shrubs are the admira-
tion of her friends, and the passers by, and
give a sort of tone to the dwelling place in-
dicative of peace and restfulness.
	However we are not giving our readers a
descriptive narrative or a story of this famous
woman, who has lived as long, and seen
so much, and associated with so many great
men and women, but only wish to tell about 
her eighty-seventh birthday anniversary.
	The lady in question gave a reception at

[Column 3]
her residence on Monday, May 3, 1909, from
2 p. m. to 8 p. m. to which she invited her
relatives, friends and co-workers. The parlor
and other rooms were artistically decorated
with flowers and ferns etc., festooned with
ribbons as for a bride; pretty vases and
bowls were filled with fragrant blossoms,
tastefully arranged, and all was done in the
most perfect harmony of color.
	Sister Smith wore with becoming grace,
an elegant, white, homemade silk dress,
with exquisite fine lace at the neck and 
wrists, and a very fine white lace scarf over
her beautiful soft white hair; altogether she
presented a queenly appearance, as she sat
in state, to receive her guests. She was as-
sisted in receiving by her only daughter Mrs.
Clarence E. Merrill, and Mrs. Susan E. Smith;
her charming and attractive grand-daughters
Mrs. David Allen, Mrs. George A. Horne,
Mrs. Ben. E. Lloyd, Mrs. Joseph Fisher,
Mrs. Stephen L. Richards, courteously meet-
ing the guests doing the honors and deftly
dispensing light refreshments to the nume-
rous callers, who came to offer congratula-
tions to the reverend hostess, on this auspi-
cious occasion; and to wish her continued
health, happiness, prosperity and future use-
fulness, and activity, as long as life seemed
desirable to her. Many of her friends brought
bouquets, pretty books and a variety of gifts,
remembrances, and messages, tokens of love
and esteem.
	During the entire afternoon until eight
o’clock in the evening Sister Smith was
shaking hands and greeting her guests, in
the most kindly and gracious way.
	Among the distinguished callers were Pre-
sident Joseph F. Smith, President John R.
Winder (who is near the same age as the 
lady herself) and President Anthon H. Lund,
also the venerable Patriarch John Smith,
and other notable people from far and near,
about two hundred in all, and every one 
seemed delighted to show honor and rever-
ence to the beloved woman leader.
	During the day a telegram of loving con-
gratulations and good wishes was received
from Los Angeles, California, signed John
Henry Smith, George Albert Smith, John and
Lucy Smith Acomb.
	The following day the General Board of
the Relief Society, according to a previous
arrangement, gave a sort of informal
but most delightful banquet at the home of
their president at three o’clock Tuesday,
May 4, 1909.
	A competent committee had the affair in
hand, to whom much credit is due for its
enjoyment and success. Consent of the
hostess having been given, the committee
took possession inside the cottage, and
made the needful preparations. Thereupon
the other members of the Board were re-
lieved of anxiety. The President, in her
pretty white costume, received all the mem-
bers with her sweetest smiles, and cordially
welcomed them to the home they had in-
vaded. The table looked very inviting with
its snowy linen napery, and elegant old-
fashioned china dinner-set and other rare
old plates; platters, bowls, etc., of antique
style, but the most interesting of all was the
President herself the Guest of Honor.


[Column 1]
	Everything had been done beforehand
with a view to sociability, and seated at
the head of the table was the reverend lady
we had gathered to honor while partaking
of the feast. On her right her counselor
Ida Smoot Dusenberry was seated, and
next to her, Sister Julina L. Smith, and on
the other side the secretary, Sister Emmeline
B. Wells, and next to her Sister Clarissa S.
Williams, the treasurer. Other members of
the Board present were Sisters Sarah Jenne
Cannon, Susan Grant, Emma S. Woodruff,
Emily S. Richards, Priscilla P. Jennings,
Phebe Y. Beatie, Alice M. Horne, Annie W.
Cannon, Minnie H. James, Elizabeth S. Wil-
cox, Rebecca Nibley, and Harriet B. Harker.
Rebecca E. Little, who had been seriously
ill for a long time, was at the banquet ac-
companied by her intimate associate and
friend Sister Elizabeth Crismon.
	It is scarcely possible to enumerate the
good things prepared for the delectation of
the sisters of the party, but if one dared tell
who this efficientc ommittee were, the secret
would be made public for the ladies are
famous in giving entertainments. The table
fairly groaned with the weight of the feast—
the roast beef looked very tempting and all
the vegetables of the season served in the
most appetizing style and all the condi-
ments that go with a dinner, and famous
salads, and after these dainties and
delicacies and ice cream and cakes of great
variety, and fruit to set off the picture of the
table, and a birthday cake, the most deli-
cious that could be made, and candy and
nuts and grape juice to give zest to the
toasts.
	A blessing was pronounced by Sister B.
W. Smith upon the delicious menu, and the
feasting began, all were ready to converse
socially until the chairman of the committee
announced that toasts were expected, and
the ladies began to think what to say.
	Aunt Emm. Wells was given the task of
opening the subject and after congratulat-
ing the President and telling her how long
she had known her, etc., she asked Sister
Dusenberry to respond, and in a few well-
chosen words the lady gave a pretty senti-
ment in her delightful manner. Sister
Julina Smith came next and spoke most
tenderly and lovingly of her Aunt Bath-
sheba, and in fact there seemed in her mind
a little rivalry between herself and Aunt
Emm. Wells as to who loved Aunt Bath-
sheba the best, but that was rather more
amusing than serious, and naturally Sister
Julina is dearer, being her own sister’s
daughter and according to the old saying,
blood is thicker than water.
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams could scarcely
speak when she recalled the first recollec-
tions of Aunt Bathsheba, associated as she
was in her mind with her own mother and
her dear father, her feelings almost over-
came her, but she choked down the sob fn
her throat and spoke eloquently of those
dearest memories of her childhood, and
closed with some beautiful lines from Long-
fellow’s poem; “THE GOLDEN MILESTONE.”
Each man’s chimney is his milestone,
Is the central point from which he measures
		Every distance
Through the gateway of the world around him.
We may build more splendid habitations
		But we cannot
Buy with gold the old associations.
	Sister Emma S. Woodruff spoke of the
many years she had been acquainted with
Sister Smith and their very intimate associa-
tion in the temple, and in the work of the

[Column 2]
Relief Society, and of her great life work,
and congratulated her on her long life.
	Sister Sarah Jenne Cannon who is al-
ways original as well as dignified, spoke
briefly of her life-long recollections of Aunt
Bathsheba and her nearness to her in the
Relief Society and Temple work.
	Sister Priscilla Jennings wished Sister
Smith all the blessings here and hereafter
that could be showered upon her to make
her life happy; rejoiced that she had been
so closely associated with her. Sister
Susan Grant, modest and demure, spoke
sweetly and tenderly of the past and present
in the finest words possible. Sister Emily
S. Richards alluded to the intimate assosia-
tion of the Richards family and Aunt Bath-
sheba, and could not recall the time when
she had not known her, and referred to Sis-
ter Jane S. Richards intimacy with Aunt
Bathsheba for so many years.
	Sister Alice Merrill Horne was particular-
ly grateful to all who felt to honor her dear
grandmother, and spoke of her grandmoth-
er’s energy and perseverance being an incen-
tive to all, and the sisters were all grati-
fied with her kindly words and feelings so
beautifully and tenderly expressed.
	Sister Annie Wells Cannon gave a few of
her childish recollections of the way she
used to scale the high stone wall that separ-
ated the Wells home from the Historian’s
office, when Uncle George A. (as the chil-
ren called him) sat on the porch in his old
arm chair, and referred to the great rever-
ence she felt for him and Uncle Brigham
and her own father, associating them to-
gether as educators and benefactors, and her
great love for Aunt Bathsheba, which she
could give more fully, she thought, in some
lines which she quoted:
	“I would flood your life with sunshine,
		I would fence you from all ill,
	I would crown you with all blessings
		If I could but have my will.
	Aye, but human love may err, dear,
		And a power all-wise is near,
	So I only say God bless you,
		And keep you through the year.”
	Sister Phebe Y. Beatie spoke tenderly of
the love she had for Sister Smith, who al-
ways reminded her of her mother (Sister
Zina Young) and how all through her girl
life she had watched them so intimate in
every place, and it was gratifying to recall
scenes and associations of the earlier days.
	Sister Minnie H. James spoke of the inti-
macy of Sister Smith with her own dear de-
parted mother, Sister M. Isabella Horne, for
so many years, and referred to the beauti-
ful past as she recalled it to memory.
	Sister Elizabeth S. Wilcox had the same
tender spot in her heart concerning her own
mother, who was so closely associated with
Sister Smith. Sister Rebecsa Nibley begged
to be excused, but spoke a word or two in
appreciation of her friendship with our
President, Sister Hattie B. Harker felt the
honor it was to be with us and expressed
great kindness and love for our President.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith spoke a few
precious words to us all, expressing her love
and kindly feeling and her good wishes to
all who had come to her home. She blessed
us and desired we should all keep the faith,
love our religion and keep the covenants we
had entered into sacred. She blest us with
the choicest of heaven’s blessings, peace,
prosperity and love, and hoped we should
all meet again and rejoice together and fesst
as we had today,
	It was indeed a happy day and the only
regret was that some of the members could

[Column 3]
not attend, especially Sister Jane S. Rich-
ards, who at all great gatherings of this kind
has been one of the most active in assisting,
and Sister Romania B. Penrose, who is now
abroad, Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth and
Sister Carrie S. Thomas who were unavoid-
ably detained at home.
	The General Board may be congratulated
on the success of the banquet, and if the
President felt happy, which we hope and
trust she did, and will remember the day
with pleasure and satisfaction, knowing she
has the love and reverence and devotion of
her coworkers.			E.B.W.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE STATUE OF QUEEN LOUISE.
	Within a shadowing sylvan retreat of the
Thiergarten, Berlin, is the statue of Queen
Louise, wife of Frederick William the Great,
whom he wedded in 1646. She was Louise
Henrietta of Oraniem, and history tells us
that in birth, spirit and character she was
the equal of her illustrious husband, to
whom she was a beloved counselor and com-
panion for twenty years.
	On Napoleon’s invasion of Germany, he
made dire threats against the peace of the
Queen, who fled, taking refuge in one of the
palaces on the river Havel, thus escaping
his wicked machinations. She won the love
of her people, and is the reverenced as the
“Pure Louise.” Beautiful of face and form,
she enchants all who gaze upon her, chiseled
there in stone.
	The lace of her robe, cut in the stone, re-
veals perfectly, its beautiful design. March
10th of each year, the anniversary of her
birth, sees a loyal admiring people, loading
her statue with flowers, piling them high,
before and around her in the white pave-
ment. Thus decorated, the writer beheld it,
in March 1905, with feelings difficult to de-
scribe.
			LOUISE.
	Forever of this realm a part,
		Thy memory is adored;
		Queen of thy warrior Lord,
	Thou livest in the nation’s heart.

	And here Louise, thy subjects meet—
		From thy high place above,
		Behold their gifts of love,
	Exhaling fragrance at thy feet.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.

		Frederick William the Great,
	Was born in 1620, and assumed the bur-
den of government at the age of twenty
years, reigning until 1688, as Elector Prince
of Germany.
	In June, 1675, he became victor over the
French King, Louis XIV, who had invaded
the land. At that time the title, “The Great
Elector Prince” was bestowed upon him, by
a grateful people. By this title he is known
in history.
	His statue, not nearly so pretentious or
large, as that of Queen Louise, is also situ-
ated among the dense shrubbery of the
Thiergarten, not far from that of his beloved
Queen, the Pure Louise.
						LYDIA D. ALDER.


Suffrage for women is looking up in New
Mexico. Mrs. Ellen M. Bolles of Lumber-
ton, N. M., has undertaken to organize a
Territorial campaign committee, and has
succeeded in securing the co-operation of
fourteen newspapers, whose editors have
agreed to publish articles in advocacy of
the movement.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE LITTLE STRANGER.

Whence comest Thou, Little Stranger?
I know thee not, nor have I sought
Thine acquaintanceship. Thy rare baby
Joy and gladness, with love full fraught,
Who gave it thee? And why shoulds’t be
Thine alone, inimitable,
Unpurchasable, to thee free,
Unsearchable by science grave?
What teaching or philosophy
Such wondrous sweetness to thee gave?

Who doth tell thee, Little Stranger,
The deepest secrets of the heart?
Wiser heads than thine have pondered
Yet ne’er discerned the smallest part.
Who hath made thee, cans’t thou tell me,
The wee instructor of my soul?
Great divines with power and pathos
Have failed to reach thy easy goal.

Who hath clothed thee, Little Stranger,
With such dainty, princely grace—
Grace of mind, and heart and action—
Thou flower mystery of the race?
Will it mar thy native beauty
When life’s hard lessons thou’rt taught,
Then will all thy innate sweetness
Fade away and come to naught?

Who hath given thee, Little Stranger,
Thy wealth of love, thy jewels rare
That shine on me, and where did’st get
Thy sunkissed crown of silken hair,
The like of which no king doth hold?
Riches thine that can’t be “cornered,”
Nor by the mighty be controlled.

Whence all these slaves, Little Stranger, 
That humbly serve thee night and day?
Were they captives in thy conquests,
Brought in chains from some fierce fray,
Who so meekly do thy bidding,
Hurrying at thy faintest call?
Or doth thy superior forces
into quick surrender, awe all
Those whom thy majesty may meet?
The world and I want information;
Thy method, prithee, we entreat.
					MAUD RUSSELL.


[Column 1]
INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL QUINQUEN-
				NIAL.
	A notable gathering of women from all
over the world to be held in Toronto, Onta-
rio, June 15-29, 1909. The National Council
of Women of the United States one of the
twenty-three councils represented. Her Ex-
cellency, the Countess of Aberdeen, wife of
the Viceroy of Ireland, will be present.
	The women of America are now looking
forward to the coming of the Quinquennial
Session of the International Council of
Women, to be held in Toronto, Ontario,
Canada, June 15-29, of this year.
	Representative women from eyery part of
the world will be present at this session,
which will be one of the greatest gatherings
of women ever held on the Western Conti-
nent. These women are familiar with the
needs of their respective country, and can
give a breadth and outlook, attainable in
no other manner, thus, the immense value
of such a gathering may be readily seen.
	It is specifically understood that the Inter-
national Council is organized in the interest
of no one propaganda, and has no power
over its members beyond that of suggestion
and sympathy. Its purpose is to provide a
means of communication between women’s
organizations in all countries; also to provide
opportunities for women to meet together
from all parts of the world, to confer upon
questions relative to the welfare of the com-
monwealth, the family and the individual.
	Like most great movements, the Inter-
national Council of Women has been a de-
velopment. Its formation is due to Mrs.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Miss Susan B.

[Column 2]
Anthony, American women, who, after con-
sultation with friends in England and France,
decided to convene a representative as-
sembly of delegates from as many countries
as possible, this assembly to be held in
Washington, in 1888, to celebrate the for-
tieth anniversary of the “Woman’s Rights”
movement, and to consider the possibility
of organizing International and National
Councils of Women. As a result the Inter-
national Council was organized with Mrs.
Millicent Garrett Fawcett of England as its
first president, Miss Clara Barton, of the Red
Cross Society, vice-president, and Mrs.
Rachel Foster-Avery as corresponding Secre-
tary.
	At the same time, the National Council
of Women of the United States was formed,
with the late Miss Frances Willard as its
president.
	National Councils of Women have been
formed in the United States, Canada, Ger-
many, Sweden, Great Britain and Ireland,
New Zealand, New South Wales, Italy;
France, Holland, Denmark, Austria, Switzer-
land, Netherlands, Tasmania, Argentine,
Victoria, South Australia, Hungary, Nor-
way and Queensland.
	The general officers are as follows:
H. E. The Countess of Aberdeen, president,
		Vice Regal Lodge, Dublin, Ireland.
Frau Marie Stritt, 1st vice-president,
	Durerstrasse 110, Dresden, Germany.
Dru Anna Hierta-Retzius, 2nd vice-president,
	110 Drottninggatan, Stockholm, Sweden.
Madame Jules Siegfried, 3rd vice-president,
226 Boulevard Saint Germain, Paris, France.
Mrs. Ogilvie Gordon, D. Sc., Ph. D., F. L.
		S., corresponding secretary,
	1 Rubislaw Terrace, Aberdeen, Scotland.
Miss Martina Kramers, Recording secretary,
	92 Kruiskade, Rotterdam, Netherlands,
Mrs. W. E. Sanford, Treasurer,
			Wesanford, Hamilton, Ontario.
	The Conveners of the International Com-
mittees are as follows:
Peace and Arbitration,
	Mrs. May Wright Sewall,
		201 N. Euclid Ave., Pasadena, Cal.
Laws Concerning the Legal Position of
	Women,
		Mme. D’Abbadie D’Arract,
				32 Rue Vanneau, Paris.
Suffrage and Rights of Citizenship,
	Rev. Anna Howard Shaw,
			Moylan, Pa., U. S. A.
White Slave Traffic and Equal Standard
	Morals,
		Mme. Avrll De Sainte-Croix,
1 Avenue Malakoff, Paris.
Press, 
	Mrs. Willoughby Cummings,
		44 Dewson St., Toronto, Ontario.
Finance,
	Frauelein Helene Lange,
		Gillstrasse 9, Grunewald, bei Berlin,
					Germany.
	The president and nine delegates from
each Nationai Council federated with the
International Council of Women, together
with the general officers and conveners of
standing committees, have the right to vote
at the Quinquennial Sessions.
	The President from the United States
Council is Mrs. Mary Wood Swift, of Ber-
kely, California; the Corresponding Secre-

[Column 3]
tary is Mrs. Lillian M. Hollister, of Detroit,
Michigan, and the Treasurer, Mrs. H. Josie
Nelson, Union City, Indiana.
	Speakers of National reputation will be
heard at the various meetings, all of whom
will assist in making known to the general
public the magnitude and variety of woman’s
work for humanity.
	The International Council of Women has
for its President, Her Excellency, The Coun-
tess of Aberdeen, wife of the Viceroy of Ire-
land. The Countess of Aberdeen is noted
the world over for her philanthropy and for
her efforts to better the condition of women
less fortunately situated. Believing that all
children, no matter what their station in
life, should be taught some useful occupa-
tion, her son. Lord Haddo, was brought up
a practical farmer, while her daughters are
skilful housekeepers who can dispense with
their servants if need be, or face the rough
life of a colonist without any sense of griev-
ance. Although modest and unassuming,
her royal position is such that she travels in
state second only to that of King Edward
himself. Lady Aberdeen is at present per-
sonally engaged in a crusade against tuber-
culosis in Ireland.
	The Corresponding Secretary of the Inter-
national Council of Women is Mrs. Maria
M. Ogilvie Gordon, D. Sc., Ph. D., F. L. S.,
of Aberdeen, Scotland. Mrs. Gordon, who
is a cousin of Countess Aberdeen, was the
first woman to present an original work on
any natural science subject for the degree of
D. Sc. in London, and was also the first
woman to enter for the degree of Ph. D. at
Munich, which she won with the highest
honors. Mrs. Gordon has written several
books on science, and was among the first
group of scientific women admitted as Fel-
lows of the Linnaean Society of London.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Sanford, a woman of pro-
minence in Canada, is the Treasurer; Mrs.
Sanford has traveled extensively in the in-
terests of the Council of Women.
	Any person, whose name is accepted by
the Executive Committee and approved by
the Council of his own Nation where one
exists, may become a life patron of this
Council upon the payment of $200; or may
become a quinquennial contributor upon the
payment of $25.00 within the quinquennial
period.
	Every member of every society, belonging
to a federated National Council is a member
of the International Council, and can attend
and take part in the discussion at its meet-
ings.
	The influence of the International Council
can at present be best traced through the
results of the work of the National Councils,
which it has been the means of forming.
	These Councils can show proof of having
been instrumental in breaking down preju-
dices, and in promoting mutual understand-
ing and charity between adherents of es-
sentially different faiths, races, parties, and
also providing a pivot round which all who
desire to labor for the good of humanity,
may unite for the common cause; they have
also collected and spread correct information
concerning woman’s work, and created a
center which will prove a rallying point for
women, who, in all countries, desire to live
for others and leave the world better than
they found it.
	Issued from the office of,
		MRS. LILLIAN M. HOLLISTER,
			Chairman, Press Committee,
			National Council of Women,
				Detroit, Michigan.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

			Woman’s Exponent

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, 1$.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	Exponent office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.		-	-		MAY, 1909.


[Column 1]
			OLD MEMORIES.
	To those who came here in the early days,
and have seen comparatively all the houses
in Salt Lake City built, and have been fam-
iliar with the old-time places and their oc-
cupants and in a way known their history,
to watch great changes made, even in the
way of progress, awakens many recollections
of a past that is full of historic data and
rich with tender sentiment.
	To our people the very ground round
about the northern centre of the city near
the Temple seems almost sacred, and it is
not to be wondered at either, when taken
into consideration how the Saints came here
and the peculiar circumstances surrounding
the people; the arrival of the pioneers and
establishing landmarks and the almost more
remarkable journey of men, women and
children following after and settling in a
desert—and the wonderful events transpir-
ing from time to time, especially the hand
of the Lord made manifest in the preserva-
tion of their lives and the material prosper-
ity which came to them and the gathering
together of a great people from many na-
tions, all these things and many more that
come to mind, when old familiar buildings
are removed to make room for other modern
and more substantial structures, bring back
in memory’s vista scenes and incidents of
that beautiful past, when those we cherished
as the servants of the Lord to lead and guide
his people and to hold in trust and in keep-
ing as it were, the treasures of the earth or
its bounties—the tithing of the Saints. When
watching the old tithing office torn down,
and the Deseret News building makes one
very sentimental to say the least.
	Looking out from the windows of the
Templeton facing the corner where the work
of tearing down the buildings that have stood
on the southwest corner of the block oppo-
site, one who has seen these old places in
the course of construction, can call up
“moving pictures” of the men who figured
conspicuously in public matters; and recall
such scenes and events as strike deep at the
fountains of feeling in the human heart, and
fancy is so busy with recollections so
clear and strong, that one might almost be-
lieve that each memory picture was a real
vision.
	However one ardent wish pervades the soul
of the writer, that the generation now living
in the midst of the newer methods and im-
provements of strength and desirability in
material and in use, to promote comfort ease

[Column 2]
and splendor, and grandeur, of appearances,
may also have the appreciation of these
higher and more artistic homes and public
edifices and structures, and that in all the
innovations that make for the beautifying of
this fair city, they of the present and the
future may hold in the same tender reverence,
the places erected on the ground consecrated
to the Lord for his children, that those of us
who belong to the primitive period of the
settlement of this city have cherished in
our hearts and souls for the cruder and
ruder early beginnings.
	One might better live in a tent in the
wilderness than to lose that tender senti-
mentality that is so helpful to human life,
and more especially that gratitude to our
Heavenly Father for the daily blessings
vouchsafed to all his children. Whatever
comes of wealth, and splendor to this people,
remember much is due to those, who came
early and turned the soil, and planted and
builded and established homes aad institu-
tions and beautified as best they could this
now far-famed “Mecca” of the West.


ONE MORE IN HEAVEN.
		REBECCA E. LITTLE
	Death during the few months past has
claimed among its victims some of the
brightest and most useful of the workers in
the Relief Society. Another notable name
must now be added to the long list recorded.
Our readers are all aware of the demise of
Sister Rebecca Ellen Mantle Little, whose
very recent passing away is fresh in our
minds today, and one scarce knows what to
say. There is much to tell, and in our next
issue we will have a tribute to her life and
works that will give our readers an idea of
the woman as we knew her. Sister Little was
an exceptionally superior woman in many
respects, one who stood for the highest and
best ideals in the home and in public life,
and in all the departments of knowledge
and educational work and of business and
affairs; she had the sterling qualities of
the Scotch race from which she descended,
and of which lineage she was very proud;
she was generous in her soul and in her
character.
	The glowing and eloquent tributes paid
to her by President Nephi L. Morris and
Prof. James E. Talmage at her funeral, as a
scholarly woman and one who forged ahead
in educational attainments bore proof of her
standing in the community where she was
born and had always lived.
	Bishop Frank Platte also spoke of her de-
votion and faithful performance of duties as
a Latter-day Saint, which was a very fitting
and appropriate closing to the career of one
who had been born and reared in the Church,
for which her parents had sacrificed home
and native land. The floral offerings in
great abundance were significant of the
love and esteem of her many friends, the
basket of white roses given by the General
Relief Society, was a testimonial, so to
speak of the whiteness and purity of her life
and the sacred bond which linked her to
the Society, and the basket of lilies of the
plentitude of gifts of mercy and charity,
tender tokens that speak to the human
heart.
		“So by scattered ruins,
		By sweet links unbound
		By fair blossoms all unheeded
		Trampled on the ground,
		So He brings them home to Him,
		Where no cloud their joy can dim.”


EDITORIAL NOTE.
	“Historical Tales” is the title of a unique
set of books prepared for use as text-books
for the Angelus University Course in the his-
tory of the world’s greatest nations, and yet,
they are so charmingly told and so tastefully
bound that they will form a handsome ad-
dition to any ones library.
	The set consists of 23 books, each volume
dealing with historical incidents of the diffe-
rent nations:—American, English, French,
German and the sub-title “The Romance
of Reality’’ so aptly describes them as to
leave little to explain.
	The Tales are some of them “old as the
hills” but the style of telling them is so de-
lightful that they seem to be something new
and read more like fiction than fact.
							I. S. B.


AN IMPORTANT GATHERING OF WOMEN.
		Millennial Star, April 29, 1909.
	During the present week an important
congress has been holding daily sessions at
St. James’ Hall, Gt. Portland Street, Lon-
don. Two hundred delegates from twenty-
one different countries are gathered in the
quinquennial council of the International
Woman Suffrage Alliance. This is not to
be confounded with the movement popularly
known as the cause of the Suffragettes. That
is an independent organization of a militant
character, being neither a part of nor en-
dorsed or opposed by the International or-
ganization which has been holding its ses-
sions this week in London. The ladies in
charge of the meetings of the Alliance are
highly educated, earnest, devoted, well train-
ed in parliamentary usages and able to set
forth their views in a logical and interesting
manner. They do not resort to extremes,
nor fall into the ways of the militant women
who have made such a stir in the country
by violating police regulations and exposing
themselves to the penalties of the law.
	The Alliance moves upon legitimate and
lawful lines, and its influence is therefore
spreading throughout the civilized world. It
is presided over by Mrs. Carrie Chapman-
Catt, who on Monday last delivered a most
remarkable address, speaking extemporane-
ously and without notes for an hour, mak-
ing herself distinctly heard in clear, musical
tones which reached to every part of the
great building. The chair was occupied by
Mrs. Henry Fawcett, LL.D., and a number
of distinguished women took prominent
parts in the business meetings and in the
great demonstration held iu the Royal Albert
Hall. The four States in the American Union
in which woman suffrage has been estab-
lished, viz., Wyoming, Utah, Idaho and Co-
lorado, also Australia, New Zealand, Fin-
land and Norway were represented, and the
Isle of Man came in for its share of represen-
tation, the speaker for that rock in the sea
being Mr. Armitage Rigby.
	Utah’s delegates received recognition in
all the courtesies of the occasion, Dr. Roma-
nia B. Penrose being appointed by the Wo-
man’s National Relief Society, of which Mrs.
Bathsheba W. Smith is president; Mrs. Nel-
lie C. Taylor by the Young Ladies National
M. I. Association, of which Mrs. Martha H.
Tingey is president; and the editor of the
Star representing the Utah Woman Suffrage
Association, of which Mrs. Emily S. Rich-
ards is president. The proceedings have
been conducted with the best of order, yet
with enthusiasm and vigor.
	The speakers have evinced a determina-


[Column 1]
tion and zeal which show that their hearts
are in the work which they have undertaken
to perform. They ask only for what they
deem to be simple justice. They demand
for women the same rights to vote as are ac-
corded to men; equal pay for equal work re-
gardless of sex, representation to go with
taxation, a voice in the enactment of laws
which they are required to obey. They point
to the great progress that has been made
towards the uplifting of women through the
efforts of the promoters of the Woman Suf-
frage cause, such as the removal of many
disabilities under which women labored not
many years ago. Since that movement be-
gan, the right to hold property once denied
to married women had been obtained, pro-
fessions once entirely closed to women have
been opened to them. These opportunities
for female labor and independence are in-
creasing, and the conviction is fast taking
hold of the minds of thinking people that
the ballot should be an equal right to women
[-]s to men. 
	The peculiar reasoning that opponents of
woman suffrage use when they put women
forward to solicit votes and to employ all
the tactics and methods peculiar to political
movements, was exposed in a striking man-
ner by speakers at the congress, and it does
seem rather singular that political leaders
and applicants for popular favor are willing
to put women forward as political wire-pul-
lers and canvassers, doing the same work in
election schemes and tactics as men do, and
yet vehemently decry their right or privilege
to vote themselves while engaged in getting
votes for others. The so-called arguments
against woman suffrage that have been used
for many decades are still put forth as
though they were of some weight, when they
have been met and exploded with such force
that it would seem they would never be re-
vived again; such as that women cannot
serve as soldiers therefore they should not
be allowed to vote; the man is the head of
the family therefore the woman does not
need the vote, the family is the unit of the
state and the head represents the family,
etc., etc. 
	The same reasoning would shut out the
majority of men from the ballot. There are
millions of men not suitable for soldiers or
for policemen, or for other offices or posi-
tions. If the head of the family is sufficient
to represent the family, then the unmarried
sons, as well as the daughters and the moth-
er, need not and ought not to have the suf-
frage. The truth is that in a representative
government the individual is the unit of the
state, and the same principle by which the
male when of age is entitled to the ballot
would bestow it also upon the female when
of age or having any other similar qualifica-
tions as a citizen. These are among the
arguments used by women of brains and
culture in the great gathering of the Inter-
national Alliance, and they are set forth
calmly, rationally, without violent attacks
upon the male sex, and yet with force com-
ing from settled conviction and a determina-
tion to succeed. 
	The right of women to equal remuneration
for labor with that given to men when it is
as well performed is also maintained with a
logic that carries conviction to an unbiased
mind, and the need for the alleviation of
distressed and oppressed female laborers in
various capacities forms one of the reasons
advanced why woman should have the bal-
lot. With it she becomes a person of con-
sequence to the office-seeker and office-holder
and can exercise a force in the direction of

[Column 2]
legislation to relieve her from the disabili-
ties which oppress her sex and drive many
of them into ways of living that bring dis-
aster to the commonwealth, as well as ruin
to herself. There is no argument used
against giving the suffrage to women that
cannot be turned to act with squal force
upon a large number of men. 
	The equality of the sexes before the law
and in matters of religion has been recogn-
ized in theory and in practice by the Latter-
day Saints, or “Mormons” as they are gener-
ally called. In the Church both sexes stand
on an equality in voting upon all measures
relating to ecclesiastical affairs. This has
been part of the discipline of the Church
from its very beginning. As early as 1870,
the ballot was given to women in the Terri-
tory of Utah. When Utah became a State
in the American Union, her constitution
provided for equal political rights to women
with men. In this Utah has been a pattern
to surrounding States and has afforded a
most complete refutation of the fallacy so
generally accepted that in Utah women were
in bondage to men. 
	The march of civilization cannot be turned
backward. It is moving with steady strides. 
Proofs that the predicted evils to follow
woman suffrage are fallacious are afforded
by actual facts in the countries and states
where equal suffrage has prevailed for many
years, but prejudice dies hard and none are
so blind as those who will not see. Yet, all
error must eventually give way to mighty
truth, and the principle of justice will gradu-
ally bring forth the right and woman will
stand by the side of man, his companion in
all things, sharing with him every right and
privilege and honor and dignity which he
can lawfully hold and use, for the common
good and the uplifting of enlightened human-
ity.							C. W. P.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
INCIDENTS IN THE LIFE OF LYDIA POND
				RICH.
	I was born October the 9th, 1834, at
Whitestraw, Wiltshire, England, and am
the daughter of Thomas and Ann Garrett
Pond who were of humble birth but strictly
honest and taught their children the same;
my father died when I was about eight years
old leaving my mother with seven children.
I being the youngest of them. In a few
years my mother was married again to a
man by the name of Isaac Pernell and we
moved to his home in Trowbridge, a manu-
facturing little town; they make some of the
best woolen cloth that is made in England.
After awhile I went to work in one of these
factory’s belonging to the firm of Potter and
Heywood, the same firm that my grand-
parents and parents had worked for, they
were weavers and kept others to help them
and when the weaving was done in the fac-
tory by machinery the old faithful ones still
continued to have theirs at home and the
children if they had any that were old
enough to work in the factory had the privi-
lege of going and working at the power
looms, and I was one of that number; it was
there I first heard of the Latter-day Saints.
Another young girl and myself went to their
meeting for a little pastime and we enjoyed
it very much and went quite often till we
became thoroughly convinced of its truth
and in November 1850 we went down into
the waters of baptism; I was only a girl six-
teen years old. My parents belonged to the
Baptist Church, so I had to depend on my
Father in heaven and he never has forsaken
me.

[Column 2]
	Soon after I joined the Church my step-
father died leaving my mother a widow
again. My home was very comfortable; I
could take the Elders home at any time
and leave them with the family, as I had to
go to work early in the morning and I knew
they would be well cared for, as my mother
would never allow bad rumors told in the
home about the Latter-day Saints. She told
us that we should not tell anything we did
not know to be true, and. we could not al-
ways depend on rumor and that home ought
to be the happiest place on earth. Some
time after I joined the Church I became ac-
quainted with a young man by the name of
John H. Rich and our acquaintance soon
ripened into courtship and in 1852 I became
his wife; we were married in the Church of
England, in January, 1853. We left our
home and turned our faces Zionward being
the only ones of our families that were in
the Church. We left Liverpool on the fifth
of February on the ship Jersey; Elder George
Halliday was our president. We arrived in
New Orleans in March being six weeks and
three days on the sea; we went from New
Orleans up the Mississippi River to St. Louis
and stayed there two months. My husband
went to work while we were there to help
get our living and also to get things for our
journey across the plains; many inducements
were held out to us to try and get us to stop
there; but we had started for the gathering
place of the Saints. We went from St. Louis
up the Mississippi River to Council Bluffs;
I shall never forget how the boat grated on
the river bed; and we camped at Kanesville
till the company was ready to start. The
captains name was Moses Daley; while there
a dear sister met with an accident and lost
her foot, it was shot off by her husband who
had been out hunting and was showing the
boys in camp how he lost his game; he pul-
led the wrong trigger and shot his wife in
the leg; she was getting her baby to sleep at
the time; but there was not much sleep in
camp that night; it was quite a trial for us
to leave her; there was an arrangement made
as soon as she was able for her to come on,
but she went back to St. Louis with her
husband, and they came to Utah the next
year and lived in the city for a while, her
name was Emily Halliday.
	In June we started on our journey across
the plains, August 24th, I gave birth to a
baby boy, we named him Franklin John;
we were at that time at what was called the
Black Hills; the company stayed over one
day for me; we arrived in Salt Lake City,
September 29, 1853.
	A few days after we came in, a brother
Thurston came to our wagon and offered us
a home for the winter at his house if my
husband would work for our board which he
agreed to do; we lived in with the family till
April the following year; when we moved
into a log cabin that we had used as our
bedroom during the winter; it was about fif-
teen feet square with no floor or window,
but it was the best they could do for they
had a large family of their own. It was
there I learned to make salt-rising bread; I
also learned to make butter while there,
Sister Thurston was very kind to us and so
were all of the family. In August, 1854, we
moved to the settlement or fort as it was
called; my husband was working days work
for our living and the Lord blessed us in our
labors and we got us a home, it was a log
house, we bought it of Brother Lyman Porter
and we were thankful to be in our own
house; in January, 1855, another son was
born to us, James Thomas. The following


[Column 1]
fall, in October, while my husband was
hauling wood from the mountain he had the
misfortune to break his leg; he was not able
to do any work that winter; we had some
wheat on hand and had it ground and we
sifted the bran and put one fourth bran and
three fourths flour and it made good bread
and by so doing we had enough bread to
last us till my husband was able to work
and during that winter we lost everything,
and had to make a new start. In September,
1857, a son was born to us, William Henry,
and in the spring of 1858 the call came for
the people to leave their homes and move
south; we were among the first ten that left
Centerville; we left our home not knowing
where we were going; we did not have any
team or wagon at that time, but Brother
Rollins, a man, my husband had done a
great deal of work for, offered him a yoke of
steers, and a light wagon, if he would haul
some of his things with ours which he did;
it was not much we had to haul at that
time; we went to Payson and stayed there
till the latter part of June when we returned
to our home again, and the Lord blest us
greatly for the sacrifice that we had made
although it looked rather dark at the time
and the cloud was hanging low, but there
was a silver lining under the cloud.
	October 31st, 1859, a baby girl was born
to gladden our home, her name was Lydia
Millira; in April, 1861, we moved from Cen-
terville to Weber Valley, now Morgan, in
Morgan County; my husband took up some
land and built us another home; we were
among the first settlers; there were many
hardships to endure, but it all gave us an
experience and taught us to be thankful to
our heavenly Father for the blessings we re-
ceive from time to time; in January, 1862,
another little girl was born to us, Louisa
Ann, but she did not stay with us long, not
quite two years and her spirit took its flight
to the better land.
	There are many lessons to be learned in
settling up new countries and in those days
there was not much to do with, making it
all the more difficult to build new homes;
now it is comparatively easy to do what it
was then, a great hardship, one can scarcely
realize it if they have not passed through it
in these days. We were glad to have a
spring seat in a lumber wagon to ride in but
that is almost a thing of the past now and
buggies have taken their place; in 1865 an-
other daughter, Lucy Jane, was born to us.
	In 1868, the Relief Society of Morgan was
organized and I have been a member of it
ever since; for which I am truly thankful,
for it has been a good school for me; it has
taught me to rely on my Father in heaven
for strength to do all things. In March, 1877,
I was chosen President of the Relief Society
of Morgan, and when the stake organization
was effected in 1878, I was chosen President
of the stake and held both offices until 1889
when I asked to be released from being Pre-
sident of Morgan ward; I am still laboring
as President of the Morgan stake. I shall
never forget how I felt when my name was
called out for me to take that responsible po-
sition. When I reached home I said to our
dear sister Eliza R. Snow; I fear I am not
capable of filling that position; she said you
will; and fill it with honor, and those words
have always been strength to me in the hour
of need, and before she went home she blest
me; and it has always been a help to me
with other blessings that I have received
from her and Aunt Zina and many others
who have gone behind the veil not forgetting
the many kind and encouraging words that

[Column 2]
I have received from many of the Sisters
that have visited our conferences; among
them Sisters Jane S. Richards and E. B. Wells,
many words of counsel have they given me
and they have been as land marks while
passing through life. In 1879 my eldest
daughter died leaving a baby girl four days
old, it lived one week and passed away. In
1886, my eldest son died leaving a wife and
six boys, they are all grown up to manhood
and are workers in the Church. I have pas-
sed through many trials; it has given me ex-
periences, that have been as gems by the way
side; and my faith has been increased and I
trust I will be faithful to the truth to the
end of my life.
					LYDIA RICH.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OBITUARIES.
	We wish to record through our valuable paper,
the death of one of our faithful sisters, Mrs.
Mary L. Nelson of the sixth ward, Provo, who be-
came a member of the Relief Society when it was
first organized in the 2nd ward of Provo, and
officiated as a teacher in that ward very many
years, and served faithfully in that capacity after
the ward was divided until a short time before
her demise, acting as a teacher over thirty years.
Sister Nelson was born at Hornly, Sweden on the
17th of February, 1831, and departed this life on
the 19th of October, 1908.
	She was the beloved wife of Brother Lars P.
Nelson and was a true and loving companion.
She came to Utah in the year 1861, crossing the
plains by ox teams, and was married the same
year. She was the mother of several children.
	Bishop Nelson of the 2nd ward survives them.
Sister Nelson was a consistent Latter-day
Saint, true to her covenants, for she delighted in
her holy religion, and as such we shall ever regard
her memory.

	We have been called upon to part with another
of our faithful sisters, in the person of Sister Ma-
tilda E. Loveless, wife of the late Bishop Loveless
of the 2nd ward, Provo. She also joined the Re-
lief Society when it was first organized, in that
ward, wherein she was a teacher and counselor
very many years, and continued an active worker
in the 6th ward after the wards were divided.
She was born at Nashville, Tenn., and was the
daughter of Brother and Sister William C. McClel-
lan, on the 15th of Dec. 1828, and passed away
after a lingering illness, March 15, 1909. She was
the mother of ten children. When young she was
with her parents in Nauvoo, and always bore a
strong testimony of the divinity of the Prophet
Joseph Smith, and remembered many remarkable
scenes and incidents in his life of which she was a
witness. She was always willing to perform the
last sad rites for the dead evsn in contagi-
ous diseases, for which she was highly appreci-
ated. One of her nephews is Professor McClel-
lan, the organist of the Salt Lake City Tabernacle.
				ELECTA BULLOCK,
						Pres’t.
				M. A. TILL,
				CLARA PAXMAN,
						Committee.


IN MEMORIAM.
	In memory of our beloved sister Mabel Ann
Hakes, who departed this life January 19, 1908.
	She was born in McDonough Co., Illinois, April
10, 1840. She was born in the Church and was
well acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith,
who used to dandle her on his knee when she was
a little tot. She went with her parents to Utah in
1850, and to San Bernardino, California, in 1851,
and was there married to Collins R. Hakes on the
28th of Feb., 1857. In ’58 the young couple re-
moved to Utah, where they remained until 1883,
at which time they came to Mesa, Arizona.
	Sister Hakes joined the Relief Society in 1868,
not as a lay member, but as a ward counselor,
and spent 40 years in Relief Society work, holding
office the entire time. She was a stake officer,
counselor or president, for twelve years while liv-
ing in Mesa, but finally had to resign on account
of ill health.
	Sister Hakes and her companion lived together
almost 52 years, and she was the mother of 12
children. She had 43 grandchildren and 21 great
grandchildren. Though she had many trials in


life her family never heard her speak a word in
anger. For two years previous to her death she
was helpless and a constant sufferer, but she never
murmured nor complained.
	Sister Mabel Hakes was truly a noble woman,
and a mother in Israel, and we, the Relief Soci-
ety of Mesa Ward and of Maricopa Stake shall
greatly miss her from our midst; but while we
feel her loss, and miss her wise counsel, and while
we sympathize with her bereaved husband and
children, we bow to the will of our Heavenly
Father and pray that when we are called from our
earthly labors we may be worthy to meet her in
the great beyond.
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be
spread upon the records of the Stake Relief Soci-
ety, a copy be sent to the family and a copy sent
to the Exponent for publication.
					CELIA A. SMITH,
					BARBARA ALLEN,
					ANNIE E. FULLER,
								Committee.


IN MEMORIAM.
Resolution of respect to the memory of Anna
	Kleinman, daughter of Henry Beneze and
		Elizabeth Lang, who departed this life
			December 8th, 1908.
	She was born June 1st, 1836, was one of the
first to embrace the gospel in the place where she
then resided (Weininger, Zurich, Switzerland) in
the year 1854.
	Emigrated to Utah in the following year, mar-
ried Conrad Kleinman in 1856, in Salt Lake City,
moved from there and went to Lehi to live some
time after.
	In 1861 they were called to Dixie, among the
first that were called there, and obedient to the
call went and made their home at St. George un-
til 1867, when they moved to Toquerville, where
they stayed until 1883, when they moved to Ari-
zona.
	She was the mother of ten children, three girls
and seven boys. Four sons survive her death.
	She was called to preside over the Relief Socie-
ty of Alma ward, Maricopa stake, May 31, 1883,
which duty she performed in an energetic and
exemplary manner, until a few years ago. She
then moved to Utah with her husband to work in
the Temple at St. George; while there she was
called upon to part with her husband Conrad
Kleinman, after his death she still continued to
labor in the house of the Lord, and did the work
for 2,500 or 3,000 relatives and friends.
	She was sympathetic in nature; always helping
those that were sick or in trouble.
	She passed through all the hardships of the
early days in Salt Lake.
	Having a desire to once more visit with her sons
and daughters in Mesa, Maricopa Co., and then
return to St. George to finish her work for the
dead, but while here her health began to fail and
after lingering for four weeks after an operation
finally succumbed to the inevitable.
	She won the love and esteem of all whom she
associated with through life.
	And the officers and members of the Alma ward
Relief Society, feel that in her passing away we
have lost a faithful and earnest worker in the Re-
lief Society cause, a firm and valued friend and
be it
	Resolved:—That we duly sympathize with her
family in their deep bereavement, and sorrow in
the loss of a loving and devoted mother, and we
pray that the sweet consoling spirit may descend
upon them to heal up the broken hearts.
	Resolved:—That we sincerely mourn her depar-
ture from us but appreciate her past faithful la-
bors, and know that she has gone to receive her
reward for her past labors so well performed.
	Resolved:—That we place these resolutions up-
on our record, present a copy to the family, and
also send one to the Woman’s Exponent for
publication.
			Josephine H. Pew, President,
			Mary P. Standage,
			Clara Rogers, Counselors,
			Eva A. Kleinman, Secretary.


Miss Eetelle Reel, National Superintend-
ent of Indian Schools points out in her last
official report that there has been marked
progress during the last few years in the
general field of Indian education. Good re-
sults have been obtained through industrial
training and the encouragement of native
industries.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.
			UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the 47th Relief Society con-
ference of Uintah Stake of Zion held at
Vernal in the ward house, February 28,
1909, beglnning at 2 p. m.
	There were present on the stand Brother
Dan B. Colton of the Stake Presidency, and
several high Councilors, Patriarch Nelson
Merkley, several bishops of wards, besides a
goodly number of Relief Society presidents
of wards. President Nancy A. Colton pre-
siding. Singing, prayer and singing.
	Sacrament was then administered, after
which President Nancy A. Colton welcomed
the brethren and sisters; she reported the
Stake in good condition, all the wards in the
valley had been visited except Jensen. We
anticipate visiting those on the reservation
in the near future; she spoke of the Sabbath
day, charity, cheerfulness and cleanliness.
	A lecture by Mrs. Jean Merkley was given
entitled “Loyalty.” “To our country, to
our Church and people, to the priesthood,
to our homes and relatives and to ourselves,”
etc. The subject was ably handled.
	Song by Bathera Young and Mina Pack,
assisted by Miss Afton Pack.
	Mrs. Annie K. Bartlett addressed the con-
gregation on the subjects of loyalty, charity,
the evils that surround us, the duties of
Relief Society workers, and of the mission-
aries that go to the nations of the earth.
She bore a strong testimony of the truthful-
ness of the Gospel.
	Song by Mrs. Ethelwynne Collett, assisted
by Brother Orson Calder.
	Brother Dan B. Colton, in behalf of the
Stake Presidency, felt to say amen to the
work which was being done in the Relief
Society of the Stake and he appreciated the
work of the Relief Society workers. He
encouraged the brethren and sisters to
gather and fight against the evils that are
in our midst.
	President Nancy A. Colton made a few
closing remarks, thanked all for their
presence.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
	Singing. Benediction by Elder Fred G.
Bingham.
			PNEBE A. MERKLEY, Sec’y.
			NEBO STAKE.
	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference  of
the Relief Society of the Nebo Stake of Zion
held at the Benjamin Ward meeting house,
on Friday, March 25, 1909.
	Conference convened at 10 a. m. Presi-
dent Eliza J. Dixon presidlng.
	Singing, prayer and singing.
	Sister Bingham, president of Benjamin
Ward, spoke a few words of welcome, and
gave in a brief report of her ward.
	President Eliza J. Dixon made opening
remarks congratulated the people on their
efforts in coming out today, said we are in
need of spiritual food as well as temporal,
and we get fed both temporally and spirit-
ually in the Relief Society work, spoke of
early spiritual training in children.
	Sister Forcey gave in a good report of
Mammoth Ward. Sister Jenkins gave a
good report of the condition of Goshen
Ward, all working in harmony. Sister
Tietjen reports Santaquin as doing good
work. Gave some good instructions—we
should do the will of our Savior.
	Instrumental selection by Sister Oakle-
man. Sister Andrus spoke for some time on
the subject of charity, in a very able man-
ner.

[Column 2]
	Recitation, Josephine Shepherd.
	Sister Eleanor Hone read a paper on
child culture.
	After singing, and prayer by Sister Mary
Brown, conference adjourned until 2 p. m.
	At 2 p. m. the conference reconvened,
President Eliza Dixon presiding, Mary
Brown in charge.
	Singing and prayer and usual exercises.
	A paper was read on parents’ class work
by Sister Beck. Sister Hawkins spoke a
few words, having just returned from a three
months’ visit to California. Recitation, Sis-
ter Nora S. Hone.
	Sister Kapple gave a talk on lesson work
for the Relief Society, spiritual growth.
	Solo by Brother Charles Hawkins, entitled
“The Way of the Cross.” Sister Alis-
baugh gave a talk on our children attending
the various organizations, referred especially
to the Religion classes.
	Brother Swenson spoke of the work and
responsibility of the sisters and the mission
of Joseph Smith. Said to teach our children
the great sin of blasphemy. Bishop John-
son said it was good to carry sunshine in
our lives.
	Sister Dixon made a few closing remarks
and thanked all who had taken part in mak-
ing our conference a success.
	After singing, and benediction by Sister
Clara Evans, conference adjourned for three
months.
		ELIZA A. HAWKINS, Cor. Sec.
			TETON STAKE.
	The Teton Stake Relief Society Confer-
ence convened at Driggs, April 25th, 1909.
President Sophia E. Rigby presiding. The
morning session commenced by singing.
Prayer by President J. D. Killpack, Jr.
Singing. The sacrament was administered,
and during the passing of the sacrament
Jas. F. Griggs played an instrumental sacred
solo.
	Six wards were represented, six of the
Stake Board, the Stake Presidency, five
High Counselors present. There was a good
representation of members and visitors.
	Brother David A. Smith of Victor sang a
solo.
	President Sophia E. Rigby welcomed
those present and prayed for the Spirit of
the Lord to attend our conference.
	Sister Sadie Green of Driggs read a paper
on Relief Society work.
	President Martha Little reported Haden
Society.
	Duet from Darby.
	Geo. S. Young of the Stake Presidency
spoke of how Latter-day Saints are tested as
to their faith in our Creator. Cheerfulness
was also spoken upon, and how it helped
others as well as ourselves.
	Hymn, “All hail the glorious day,” by the
congregation.
	Secretary Olive M. Scott reported Victor
Society.
	T. R. Wilson of the High Council spoke
of the genuine work of the Relief Society.
	Darby was reported by President Louisa
Davidson.
	Singing, “For the strength of the hills we
bless Thee.” Benediction by Sister M. H.
Price.
	The afternoon session opened by singing.
Prayer and singing as usual.
	Silvia M. Thompson spoke on the great-
ness of the Relief Society work, also recited
“No room for the boys.”
	Quartette rendered from Pratt ward.
	J. D. Killpack, Jr., of the Stake Presi-

[Column 3]
dency encouraged the good work of the Re-
lief Society.
	Solo from Haden.
	Lecture, “Science of baby raising,” by A.
T. P. Durrant.
	President D. C. Driggs spoke on patience,
perseverance and cheerfulness.
	Maude Pratt Griggs then sang a solo.
	Singing, “When dark and drear.”
	Benediction by A. T. P. Durrant.
				LYDIA E. FULLMER,
						Stake Secretary.
			ALPINE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the Alpine stake was held in the
2nd ward chapel American Fork, Friday,
January 29th, 1909. Stake Counselor Annie
C. Hindley presiding[-] Meeting opened at
10 a. m. with the usual exercises.
	Counselor Hindley greeted the Sisters.
Thought it the largest gathering since the
stake was organized. Extended the greet-
ings of the season in behalf of President
Standring, who had been called away to at-
tend two funerals of very dear friends. The
first time our president has been absent from
conference since the stake was organized.
Sister Hindley thought the sisters had done
well this year and the president was well
satisfied with their labors, and desired her
love to them. Invoked our Father’s blessings
would rest upon us, and that by common
consent we would hold a testimony meeting
this morning, and all who desired could take
part.
	Song, “Count your blessings,” by the con-
gregation.
	Counselor Harriet Jacobs bore her testi-
mony, and urged the sisters to not spend all
their time in temporal affairs. We must
feed our spirits and seek to overcome our
weaknesses. Set a good example to our
children and make a determination that we
will serve the Lord.
	Twenty-two sisters bore faithful, spirited
testimonies, interspersed with singing and
prayer from the congregation. The spirit
of the Lord worked so powerfully among the
sisters they could not keep their seats but
were on their feet two at a time, and it
seemed quite difficult to bring the meeting
to a close.
	Benediction by Sister E. D. Clarke.
	(Lunch was served during the noon recess.
300 sisters were present.)
	Afternoon Session: Sister Annie C. Hind-
ley presiding.
	After the opening exercises Sister Kate
Allred reported Lehi 2nd ward in good con-
dition. Have testimony meetings and les-
son meetings alternately. Have 850 bushels
of wheat on hand. Gave a report of the
Kirmess, given by the Relief Society for one
week, and had cleared something over four-
teen hundred dollars to finish paying off the
debt on the Tabernacle.
	Sister Louisa Halliday reported Pleasant
Grove. “We work unitedly and have quite
a few poor and elderly people, who feel
grateful for the help the Society gives them.
Have a new cement granary, with iron roof
and door, and feel that our grain will be safe
from mice and insects.
	Mrs. Maycock of the Agricultural College
of Logan was introduced to the sisters and
gave a lecture. Traced the growth of do-
mestic science and home economics, proving
that the educational system has been at
fault, and that professional training of girls
should be home making. They should
choose their profession early in life and all


their education should tend toward that of
home making, as ninety-nine girls out of
every hundred come to that some time in
their lives. The day is coming when we will 
realize the benefit of proper home making
even in the question of diet, if the mother
wishes to raise the standard of her family,
the community, the state and the nation,
she must look well to the diet in her home.
The boys and girls must be taught to be
home makers and home keepers. Teach
them how to cope with problems they will
meet in the homes they expect to make.
Girls should be taught to save time and
energy by knowing how to keep house prop-
erly, but to do so we must be alive, be
awake and progressive. The business man
knows that he must get out and converse
with people, read along his line of work and
be a wide awake, progressive man. The
home maker should do the same in order to
profitably use her time and energy.
	It is the duty of the mother to see that
the daughter is in full practice in all the du-
ties of home making, before she sacrifices
her time and energy to let the daughter take
so much text book and cultural work. More
household duties would be of more health-
ful benefit to the daughter and at the same
time prepare her for wife and motherhood,
and we would have fewer nervous wrecks.
Some mothers think that the daughter is not
strong and too delicate to perform the duties
of home, and so does that herself when nine
times out of ten the mother is the most un-
able, and it would be the best thing for the
daughter to drop some of her mental work
and perform more physical labor. Instead
of education preparing one for life, we should
be living the actual practical life while get-
ting this education.
	President S. L. Chipman enjoyed the spirit
of the meeting and also the ideas advanced
today. There is nothing that will bring more
comfort in the home than a little regularity
and arrangement. This is a fact in business
and it is in the home.
	We are living in an age of progress and
advancement. Our schools have been mak-
ing a mistake in training the head and not
the heart nor the hand. I hope the time is
not far distant when the training will be di-
vided between the head, heart and hand,
and make the education one of practical
work, so that our boys and girls will be
turned out practical men and women.
	Let us have our ideals and ambitions high
and work to that and reach it.
	We do not find such another organization
as the Relief Society. It is a labor of love;
so is that of the bishop. Stand by them and
do not allow any one to say anything against
them in your presence.
	Meeting closed by singing and the benedic-
tion was by President James H. Clarke.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
			EMMA J. T. ROBERTS,
							Cor. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


JULIA WARD HOWE POST CARD. 
	M,s. Julia Ward Howe has been made the
subject of a new post card, one of the most
artistic yet issued, It is pale brown and
bears a very pleasing portrait of Mrs. Howe,
the last verse of the “Battle Hymn,” and a
fac-simile of Mrs. Howe’s signature. It may
be ordered from the Msssachuttes Woman
Suffrage Association, 585 Boylston St. Bos-
ton. Price 5 cents apiece. Add one cent
or more for postage, according to the quan-
tity ordered.


MRS. HOWE AT 90.
	Mrs. Julia Ward How’s ninetieth birthday
brought her as many floral tributes as if all
the flowers of her ninety springs had come
to life again, and were raining down upon
her. There was also a profusion of magnifi-
cent birthday cakes, and a shower of letters
and telegrams from many parts of the
world. There were so many presents that
the hall of her Beacon street home was fair-
ly crammed with dainty packages, snd
looked as if a wedding or a Christmas tree
were in prospect.
	All her children were with her at lnnch-
eon—Mrs Laura E. Richards, Mrs. Florence
Howe Hall, Professor Henry Marion Howe
and Mrs. Maud Howe Elliott. The recep
tion that followed was limited to the family
and a few intimate friends as Mrs. Howe
was just convalescent from a cold. Receiv-
ing with Mrs. Howe were Mrs. Henry M.
Howe, Mrs. Elliott, Mrs. Richards, and
Miss Rosalind and Miss Elizabeth Richards,
and Miss Marjorie Parks, of Brighton, a
grandniece of Dr. Howe.
	Mrs. Howe was dressed entirely in white
and wore no flowers. On the table back of
her “throne chair” was set a huge bunch of
lilies of the valley, sent by the children of
the Asylum for the Blind, with a bunch of
letters written by them.
	Among the telegrams received were those
from the Rhode Island Woman Suffrage
Association, the New Jersey Woman Suf-
frage Association, the National Alliance of
Unitarian Women, the senior class of the
Durfee High School, Fall River, the St.
Mathew’s Rectory, Bedford, N. Y., and the
National Woman’s trade Union League. A
greeting with which Mrs. Howe was especi-
ally pleased was from the Church of the
Disciples, to which she has belonged for
many years and whose pulpit she has occa-
sionally filled.
	Among the presents was a beautiful ame-
thyst necklace from the New England
Women’s Club. The Italian consul snd
the Circolo Italiano of which Mrs. Howe is
honorary president, the Greeks of Boston
and the Suffrage Association were among
those sending flowers. Altogether it was a
delightful occasion.


A VICTORY IN SWITZERLAND
	Switzerland has adopted a Federal Civil
Code for the whole Republic. Beginning
January 1, 1912, this will take the place of
the thirty different codes now in force in the
different cantons.
	When the new code was adopted the
Swiss parliament voted to give a copy of it to
every male citizen. The National Council of
of Women asked the Federal Council to
give a copy also to every spinster or widow
who might ask for it. This was refused;
but the Federal Council has now reconsid-
ered its action and has granted the women’s
request. It is eminently reasonable, since
women as well as men need to understand
the laws under which they live.


THE INTERNATIONAL SUFFRAGE SONG.
	A number of songs were sent in for the compe-
tition opened for an international hymn of wom-
en’s freedom. The following was chosen, the com-
mittee making the recommendation said that
there were others with more literary value as
poems, but none which lent themselves so well to
music:
		Forward, sister women!
			Onward evermore! 	
		Bondage is behind you,
			Freedom is before,
		Raise the standard boldly,
			In the morning sun!
		Gainst a great injustice
			See the fight begun!
	
			CHORUS:
		Forward, forward, sisters!
			Onward evermore!
		Bondage is behind you,
			Freedom is before.

		See the women’s army
			Press their country’s sod!
		Sisters, you are treading
			Where the heroes trod.
		Let no fear withhold you,
			No oppression stay;
		Out of night and darkness
			Onward into day!

		Women’s hands have labored,
			Giving love and life.
		Yours is now to follow
			In the glorious strife. 
		Lift the burden gladly,
			Strong in right and youth,
		Victor’s wreaths must crown you,
			Naught can conquer truth!


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Women’s Franchise says: “In Mr. Mer-
redith we have lost an ardent woman suffra-
grist. Perhaps now he is dead his ‘Ballad
of Fair Ladies in Revolt’ will be better ap-
preciated as propaganda’
	The proprietor of Keith’s theatre recently
announced that jokes against mothers-in-law
would be excluded from all performances
upon its stage. Mr. Keith has been flooded
with letters of thanks. It is reported that
most of these are from men, who declare
that they are on the best of terms with
their wives’ mothers.
	Florence Nightingale, who has just en-
tered her ninetieth year, received many con-
gratulatory messages and bouquets. She is
now so feeble as to be confined to her room. 
Miss Nightingale has been a life-long advo-
cate of woman suffrage. When asked to
give her reasons she wrote: “It seems to
me almost self-evident, an axiom, that every
householder and tax-payer should have a
voice in the expenditure of the money we
pay, including, as this does interests the
most vital to the human being.”
	Mrs. Howe has just been re-elected presi-
dent of the New England Women’s Club, an
office that she has held for many years. She
succeeded the first president, Mrs. Caroline
M. Severance, who is now a beloved and
honored “Mother of Clubs” in Los Angeles,
Mrs. Howe was the first president of the New
England Woman Suffrage Association, 
chosen at its organization nearly 40 years
ago, and she has been re-elected at its last
annual meeting.				Ex.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY
LADIES’ READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
TRY US

