
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		The Rights of the ﻿Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 21.				SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1, 1892.				NO. 1.


CONTENTS.
	Women’s Work in the World’s Fair—Mrs.
Solomon Thatcher. Before Railroads—Ellen
Jakeman. In Rural England—A Story. R. S.,
Y. L. M. I. A. and P. A. Reports. Women at
Minneapolis—A. S. B. L. D. S. College Exer
cises—Dr. E. S. Barney. "Di Vernon" Makes a
Hit—The Journalist. Miscellaneous.
	EDITORIAL:—Questions of Interest. Editorial
Notes. Sarah G. Richards. An Interesting
Journey.
	POETRY:—Condemnation —Maria S. Ladd.
May-Blossoms and June-Roses—Hyacinth. Rev-
eries of Summer—E. B. W. The Cry of The Ten
Thousand—Brownlee Brown. I Want You So.


CONDEMNATION.

So she is down; well, do your utmost part
	To bring her lower, for you may have found
	Some spot they have not stabbed, and the sharp
		wound
May reach her shivering heart,
But wait ’till you are sure that all the pack
	Of loud defamers, with one wild accord
Are fiercely baying at the culprit’s back;
	Then strike your blow, while thanking the dear
		Lord,
That thou art not as she, whom all do hurt,
And point the finger at with just affront.
	We are so perfect, that in dread we cry
At others’ sins, and sometimes at a fault;
We walk so straight, that if another halt
	We cannot pass it by.
						MARIE S. LADD.


MAY-BLOSSOMS AND JUNE-ROSES.

Oh, the sweet June-time has come at last,
	The loveliest of all the year,
With its crimson and gold and deep damask,
	And pearly white folds so clear.
The long trailing vines of roses,
	Seem higher to climb each day,
While 'mong the low boughs reposes
	Bright birds warbling forth sweet lays.

Alas ! the dear time of May-blossom
	Has gone, with its beautiful store
Of pale tinted petals of crimson,
	To mingle with days long of yore.
The deep swelling streamlets of water,
	Give place to the low, rippling brooks,
That merrily glide with sweet laughter,
	Through valleys of cool, shady nooks.

Fair May, bright bower of beauty,
	Fresh mantled with each smiling morn,
Your glistening white plumage all dewy,
	A heart's tenderest hopes adorn.
Forever to me thou art dear,
	With thoughts pure that never can fade,
In fondness for thee falls a tear,
	O'er the casket sweet memory's made.

Bright June, nay, linger yet longer,
	Thy loveliness fades but too fast;
While garlands of hope and love stronger,
	Are twined for the days of the past.
Ah, June, you have stolen from me,
	What May in her beauty bestowed;
Yet of all the fair months I see,
	To me, both are brightest and best.
							HYACINTH.


REVERIES OF SUMMER.

Oh bright and glowing summer, thy beauty
	and thy bloom
Bring memories of by-gone days, all laden with
	perfume
Of things most choice and sweet—and fragrant
	wild-wood flowers,
Which erst I fondly gathered in thy delightful
	hours.
The forest paths I wander’d in, beside the rip-
	pling stream,
Methinks I tread again in youth’s midsummer
	dream;
And all around me voices are whisp’ring in the
	trees,
And thrill me with the chorus they waft upon the
	breeze:
And the dear familiar scenes of happy “long
	ago”
Drift back again and mingle with fancy’s dreamy
	show,
And the shadows of the days that now are mine
	no more
Fall thickly all around me, and my heart is gush-
	ing o’er
With olden time remembrances of those bright
	summer hours,
When pleasure held her riot ’mid nature’s sunny
	bow’rs.
And musing on the past and pondering o’er and
	o’er
I catch a fleeting glimpse of the lov'd ones gone
	before;
They grace my summer reveries with sweetness
	most complete,
As indistinct they linger where we were wont to
	meet.
The magic of their voices can never be forgot.
For still their echoes vibrate round the old familiar
	spot.
The golden wealth of nature that comes with
	summer days
Is like life’s brilliant summer that falls ’mid pleas-
	ant ways,
As summer’s sun doth ripen the fruit and golden
	grain,
And spread its treasures richly o’er garden, valley
	plain,
So should our life’s full summer at its meridian
	height,
Ripen a golden harvest, which may the soul de-
	light—
Filling her garners richly with most abundant
	store !
Of knowledge, love and wisdom and good deeds
	teeming o’er.
								E. B. W.


WOMEN'S WORK IN THE WORLD'S
			FAIR.

		MRS. SOLOMON THATCHER JR.

	[Address delivered in large Tabernacle in 
Salt Lake City, Sunday evening June 5,
1892.]
Ladies and Gentlemen of Utah and Salt 
		Lake City:

	I wish to assure you that I appreciate very
much the compliment of this invitation to
be present and speak to you of a matter that
lies very near to my heart. I am exceed-

[Column 2]
ingly interested in the association that is
holding its grand meeting in this Taber-
nacle for the last few days. If there is any-
thing that is better for young people than
another thing after religion, it is the love of
education and culture. I am glad to know
that these young men and women are sys-
tematically pursuing a course of education
and growth. Education is the great lever
that shall lift the world from vice and deg-
radation. Education is the great key that
shall unlock the storehouse of nature, and
shall put into your hands as willing slaves,
the great powers of nature. Education is
the sunlight that shall drive away the mists
and miasmas of ignorance, vice and super-
stitution. Education is the sunlight that
shall show to you the face of your God, and
lead you to know his love for you.
	I should hesitate to occupy your time and
trust my ability to interest you, did I not
feel that every man and woman should be
interested in everything that tends to show
God's goodness to us, that tends to elevate
manhood and womanhood. We are ap-
proaching a great epoch in the history of
civilization. Already the great nations of 
the earth and the islands of the sea are col-
lecting their treasures,and bringing them up
to show as a thank offering to God for His
goodness and mercy to all. Already upon
the shores of Lake Michigan, a few miles
from the hum and the noise of a million and
a half of people, a city is approaching com-
pletion, a city of buildings of magnificient
proportions, of great architectural beauty.
These palaces are to be the storehouses in
which shall be placed the offerings of men, 
the products of the brain, of the heart, and
of the hand of man, products of the sea and 
of the soil and of the mine. Already the
plowshare has turned the soil that shall
produce exposition grain; already the forge
and smelting furnace are smelting exposition
ore; already the choicest products of your
quarries are being worked by skillful men to
show to the world your marbles, your gran-
ites, and your precious stones; already the
spinners are weaving their beautiful fabrics
to delight your eyes.
	No money has been spared in this under-
taking. The president of the directory told 
me just before I left home,that it would be
very difficult to obtain in all the world
enough insurance to cover the value of the
wonderful products that shall be on exhibi-
tion at this exposition. 67 countries have
already accepted invitations to participate.
Japan, that far away country in Asia, has
appropriated $600,000 with which to show
the value of her products. The State of
Illinois has appropriated $800,000 with
which to properly set forth her resources.
	I should be glad to talk to you longer and
tell you of the general work of the fair, but
I want to talk to you of what the women
are doing in the fair. Some little time after
Congress had decided to celebrate the quad-
ricentennial of the discovery of America,and
had appointed a commission of gentlemen
who formed their plans on a comprehensive
scale, a large party, stimulated, no doubt by
a patriotic woman, introduced a bill into
Congress, asking for the appointment of a
board of women, to serve on all departments


[Column 1]
of the board where women’s work was ex-
pected, and in the performance of other
work. This was a great step in advance for
women; and it is the first time in the history
of our country that women have been invit- 
ed to participate in a department of our
country’s government. This was the result
of the sensible ideas of women. The mem-
bers of the commission, as soon as this
board was appointed, vied with each other
in their desires to give us great opportunities
and full scope. They put into our hands
all the interests of women all over the world.
They have made us the official channel
through which all women and organizations
of women may come into connection with
the fair. This opportunity was seized upon
to bring out everything that would elevate
and show the value of women in the world.
	We are making great efforts to have in
the competition exhibition everything that
women have ever done. It will be a great
surprise to these gentlemen to find how
generally women have occupied all positions,
if I mentioned to you that we have dis-
covered women blacksmiths, women wagon-
ers, and one of the best ranches in California
is owned and run by a woman. We have
found women shoemakers, and in fact the
women nowadays are doing about every-
thing they please. We are not satisfied in
showing simply what the women in this
part of the world are doing, but we have in-
vited our sisters from all over the world to
join in this great enterprise. Mrs. Palmer,
our president, is a lady combining every
characteristic that is beautiful and delightful.
She is beautiful, winsome in her manner,
displaying those qualities of mind and heart
which should win every one. Mrs. Palmer,
our president, in her visit abroad last sum-
mer, by her personal acquaintance has been
able to interest some of the noblest men and
women of Europe in the Fair. In England
the Princess Christian, a lady of great ability
and daughter of Queen Victoria, is head of
the World’s Fair commission board of wo-
men. In France, Madam Carnot and others
of prominence are greatly interested in the
women’s department of the fair. The
French nation has appointed a commission
of women and has appropriated a sum of
money to pay all the expenses attended upon
their exhibits. Germany, Russia, Scandi-
navia, and in fact most of the European
countries have appointed commissions of
women also. Mexico and most of the great
advanced South American States have ap-
pointed woman commissions also. Last
summer a lady from China went to India,
empowered to confer with a princess of that
country, a woman of most humane disposi-
tion, who has taken a great interest in the
poor child widows of that land, providing
them with schools, homes, etc. This prin-
cess we hope will be able to induce the gov-
ernment of India to appoint a commission of
women for the World’s Fair; a most un-
heard of thing, for women are looked upon
as little better than nothing there.
	We have a woman’s building at the fair,
which was given us by the gentlemen. It
is most beautifully located, and I want you
to remember that this building is yours,
women of Utah; it belongs to all the women
of the world. As I said, it is most beauti-
fully located, commanding a fine view of the
grounds. At the right is the great horti-
cultural building, at the left the State build-
ing of Illinois, while in front stretches out
a noble view of the best buildings of the
fair. On the roof of this structure is a gar-
den,, with fountains, where the weary

[Column 2]
visitor may sit and rest in quietness and
view the magnificent scene. From the
lower floor will be steps leading down to the
lagoon, where launches, etc., will convey
visitors to other parts of the grounds; or if
they prefer land transportation, an electric
road will furnish rapid transit.
	On the lower floor of this building we in-
tend to display all the benevolences of wo-
men. We shall have offices, headquarters,
reading and writing rooms, etc., also a large
assembly room for women and organizations
of women to assemble to discuss organiza-
tions, or listen to lectures. We shall have
on this floor a library with books written
only by women, and they have written some
very good ones. We shall also have a model
hospital, with trained nurses, physicians,
etc., We shall have a model kitchen, with
all modern labor saving machinery useful in
such a place; here distinguished teachers
will give lessons in the best methods of ob-
taining the most nutriment with the least
possible expense. We shall also have a
colonial exhibit, which will show you the
methods of life and thoughts of the people
in the early part of the history of our
country. We shall have an exhibit show-
ing the advance of women. We expect to
show that women have always been a great
factor,though unsuspected, in the history of
the world. For cycles and ages great plane-
tary systems rolled through space, without
clash and noise, luminous bodies came and
went, and great comets would terrify at
times with their peculiar flights. For ages
no one suspected the great laws which held
them in space and told them when
to come and when to return. But
after a series of cycles and ages, men dis-
covered that God was back of all this, that
He had originated the plan and the purpose
and the law by which all these were gov-
eerned, and that even the flying comet was
subject to His own law. So in the domin-
ion of men. We intend to show that there
has been a quiet, but irresistible force gov-
erning the decrees of men, and softening
their harsh features. This force has been
women.
	Prof. Putnam, of Yale College, and head
of the bureau of ethnology, has had in
Mexico quite a number of scientists,and has
been making researches in regard to the
habits and manner of life of pre-historic
man. We expect to show you some very
great things from his investigations. He
has already found in that country many of
the utensils, etc., and even some of the re-
mains of this people themselves, wrapped in
the mummy bands in which their bodies
were buried. Professor Putnam tells us
that the condition of women at the earliest
time was pitiable indeed; that she was pur-
sued as you have seen the hawk pursue the
gentle dove; that she was captured and
slain, or forced to submit to terrible indig-
nities. Later on, her faith and her intelli-
gence and her gentle influence made for her
a better place in the economy of the times,
and she became the home-maker. In those
early days the women did all the work,
while the men followed the chase, or lolled
in indolent ease. And a curious fact has
been developed by these excavations, it has
been discovered that in those days the men
wore all the jewelry, the bracelets and the
false hair and other things now usually used
by the women.
	It is an astounding reflection that the wo-
men were the first inventors; they manu-
factured the household utensils from various
materials, even using molded clay and bak-

[Column 3]
ing it in the sun. They were the first that
took the coarse vegetable fiber and twisted
it carefully for their clothes, or from the wool
and hair of animals and the down of birds
made warm fabrics. They were the first
basket makers, and some of those early
baskets have never been surpassed for
beauty and durability. They were also the
first dyers, dying their articles with juices of
plants.
	I have endeavored to give you some idea
of what the women of the world have done,
and are doing.
	The board of lady managers has also
taken another step. At first no provision
was made for the very ones we love the
best—nothing had been done for the chil-
dren. The children should have a building
and the lady managers have decided to put
up a building for them. It will cost $20,000
and will take another $20,000 to run it.This
we expect to erect, and we want the young
ladies to give entertainments, concerts, etc.,
and raise the money to carry on this build-
ing. Here mothers can bring their babies
and put them in the care of competent
nurses, while they go and enjoy the Fair.
We shall check the babies, just as you would
check baggage, and you can go away with
your check and know that the little ones
will be safe.
	Then we intend to have a kindergarten,
arid we shall also have a room where your
children will be instructed in regard to the
peoples of various lands, their habits, modes
of life and peculiarities of dress; and compe-
tent ladies will take these children in charge.
It is a wish very near the heart of the board
of lady managers, that as many women as
possible may enjoy this occasion and have
the benefit of the growth and culture attend-
ant upon a visit to the Fair. Consequently,
an association of the board of lady managers
is endeavoring to construct a number of
dormitories in which women may take lodg-
ings with perfectly respectable surroundings,
at the slight cost of probably 35c. a day.
We want to make it possible for every wo-
man that can leave home, to come. We do
not wish any money consideration to hinder
them. To help them to attend we shall
have five dormitories, capable of accommo-
dating one thousand people each. There
will also be appointed another corps of lady
managers.
	There are also 350,000 teachers in the
United States and if any one ought to have
the advantage of this growth and culture, it
is the teacher, who cares for our children,
who instructs them, and shows them the
way of life. We must broaden and ennoble
their lives. We have been working and
laboring with the boards of education in
Chicago, and they have almost promised to
grant us the use of twenty of their largest
and most beautiful school houses, near the
fair, with fifteen rooms each, of thirty by
sixty feet; these rooms we intend to fit up
as dormitories for visiting teachers, where
the teachers can have a cheap but respect-
able lodging under the care of the lady
managers. All these things are done to
make it possible for you to come.
	Men and women of Utah, you have a
glorious heritage. You breathe a higher
and purer air than most of your brethren;
your eyes constantly rest upon one of the
most glorious landscapes with which God
has ever blessed the vision of man; your
soil yields most abundant growth; you are
environed by mountains with hearts of gold
and veins of silver, and sinews of iron; you
have magnificent resources. It remains for


you to take advantage of this opportunity to
show to the world the wealth and the
grandeur that God has given you.  You
must unite yourselves together; there must
be political parties; there must be no sec-
tarian division; you must be brethren and
sisters. And sisters of Utah, you must
work for your own land; you must bring to
the great fair your products and your glori-
ous things.
	You have a most beautiful site at the
Fair.  You have as large an amount of
space as Montana, Nevada and Idaho. And 
the day set apart for your celebration is the
24th of July, a most glorious one in your
history.  On that day your speakers, your
great men, will gather together, and the
people will gather around your house to
hear what God has done for Utah, and what
you have done for yourselves.  Now,  you
want to see what you can do.  You must
be brave.  You will have the board of lady
managers, and I trust you will lift up the
hands of these women, and all the women
that shall hereafter be appointed.  You
must have Columbian clubs. I wish every
one of these Young Men's Mutual Improve-
ment Associations would this winter resolve
itself into a Columbian club, with the view
of advancing and displaying your own re-
sources, and showing what Utah is.  We
wish the young ladies would do the same.
Every city, every hamlet, and every town
must have one of these Columbian Clubs.
You must get so enthused with this spirit,
that you will wish to give to Utah the
highest place among her sister States and
Territories.
	We want to see everybody at the fair.  It
may be that some of those I see before me
will never see the gates of the fair open.
They show by their whitened hair and fur-
rowed cheek that they will soon see that
celestial city, where God has in store for
them scenes and joys that no earthly fairs
can produce.  But I want the young men
and the young women to come to the fair.
You can by economy get the money for you
will find all the expenses not very heavy.
You cannot afford to miss this culture.  Do
not let your beautiful country take second
or third place.  Every man and woman of
you must put your shoulders to the wheel
and help to make your representation second
to none. I hope to see you all at the fair.
The culture you thus obtain will make you
nobler mothers and grander wives, and you
will go forth side by side with your brothers
to elevate and ennoble the world.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


BEFORE RAILROADS.

	Before the advent of railroads through
our beautiful Territory, when we traveled
much by team, it was my good fortune
to make an almost ideal journey through a
very sparsely settled district.
	The party consisted of four persons beside
myself and husband.  There were our two
children aged respectively nine and seven,
the teamster and the inevitable passenger.	
	There was not even a stage route, and it
was considered a matter of unpardonable
churlishness not to be willing to take one or
more persons along, if you were traveling by
team.
	We began our journey way down in the
Blue Valley country, but recently a part of
Piute County.  It is the only place that I
ever saw the sun rise on the horizon.  To
the South lay the grand old Henry moun-
tain, densely wooded from base to summit,

[Column 2]
such a contrast to the surrounding valleys
and mountains that, with the exception of a
meager fringe along the banks of the river
known as the “Dirty Devil,” are as bare of
vegetation as the mouth of a crater.  At a
distance these bare mountains look like
solid granite, but a nearer inspection shows
them to be a species of lime stone, that air-
slacks, and each rain washes a few inches of
this almost impalpable dust down into the
valleys precluding the most adventurous sage
brush from getting firm footing on their for-
ever moving sides.
	But about the journey. We were to ride
in an ordinary wagon drawn by an ordinary
team, with all the usual accessories to camp-
ing out; provisions, cooking utensils, bed-
ding.
	The first day we followed the river, wind-
ing in and out among little knolls of the
above described characteristics.  They were
of varied colors in metallic hues of green,
blue, purple and yellow, and very vivid.
So fine and yielding was this constantly slid-
ing dust, that the wagon moved noiselessly,
and the tread of the horses feet was scarcely
discernible.  So silently in fact that a team
approached us from the opposite direction,
and deeming themselves alone in the midst
of a wilderness, the gentleman kissed his wife
just as our wagon rounded a curve in the
road not three rods from them.
	Sixteen times during the day we crossed
the stream which has a quick sand bottom,
each time being a separate risk of our lives
to give piquancy to the otherwise monoto-
nous journey.  At night we camped at the
mouth of a box canon, called locally the
“Grand Gulch.”
	We built a fire, cooked supper and dis-
posed of ourselves as best we could for the
night; some in the wagon, and others on the
ground with only the canopy of heaven for
a sheltering protection.
	The next morning we passed through box
canon and I hope I shall be able to make
you see it as I did.  If the mountain had
been cracked from crest to sea level and the
wagon road made at the bottom of the
crevice I fancy it would have looked just so;
or as one of the children quaintly remarked,
“God has marked out this road with His
finger that we may not have to go up on
this side of the mountain nor down on the
other.”
	The road itself was scarcely wide enough
to permit two teams to pass each other, but
above our heads towered these massive walls
of rock hundreds and hundreds of feet high,
without vegetation, save here and there
where some hardy shrub clung in a dizzy
and frightened way to the face of the cliff.
Half way through there is a natural well, or
rather a pocket in the rocks that was full,
the day we passed it, of pure sweet rain
water, and I am told that the supply never
fails.
	Just before we emerged from this canyon
which is four miles in length,—into Rabbit
Valley, the cliffs widened out into a vast
terraced amphitheater, bearing so close a re-
semblance to the pictures I have seen of the
Colosseum at Rome as to be striking.  There
is much danger in camping in a place like
this, for although the sun may be shining
over head a thunder shower anywhere
above may pour a deluge of water into this
place at any moment. The down grade is
such as to give such a stream a terrific force
and make life unsafe.  In fact more than
one tragedy has occurred in this same place.
Just at the mouth of the Gulch is a hill that
is literally composed of slabs of stone resem-

[Column 3]
bling monuments. Some of them standing
erect and near enough to the road to be ac-
cessible are thirty and forty feet high and
almost perfectly symmetrical.  Not many
miles from there is another hill of very large
dimensions, that looks like it might be the
chip pile left when the gods had cut up red
cedar and mahogany wood for fire use, so
peculiar is the shape and color, of each
separate stone, and so uniform.
	Where ever in our trip (which was a long
one, reaching over into Beaver valley via.
Richfield and Clear Creek canyon), we found
a house at nightfall we were made welcome
and treated with the greatest kindness.
Even to our hosts rising extra early and
getting us off in good season the next morn-
ing, which is the acme of frontier hospi-
tality.  Where there were no settlers, we
camped out, knew how to take care of our-
selves (which is one of the fine arts) and en-
joyed the situation.  Space and time pre-
vent me from enlarging on many interesting
particulars of the trip, that I am sure would
strike a responsive chord in the bosoms of
many who became acquainted with Utah
before the advent of railroads.
	ELLEN JAKEMAN.


THE CRY OF THE TEN THOUSAND.

"I stand upon the summit of my life;
Behind, the camp, the court, the field, the grove,
The battle and the burden; vast, afar
Beyond these weary ways.  Behold the Sea !
The sea o’erswept by clouds and winds and
	wings,
By thoughts and wishes manifold, whose breath
Is freshness, and whose mighty pulse is peace.
Palter no question of the horizon dim,—
Cut loose the bark; such voyage itself is rest,
Majestic motion, unimpeded scope,
A widening heaven, a current without care.
Eternity!—deliverance, promise, course !
Time-tired souls salute thee from the shore.
						BROWNLEE BROWN.


I WANT YOU SO.

Deep in the cool and quiet grass
	Never a human step to pass
Bending cedars a watch to keep,
	All things wrapt in a silence deep
When through the twilight shines afar
	The pale face of the evening star,
I whisper to the grasses low:
	“I want you so! I want you so !
All through the slowly passing days
	I tread my quiet walks and ways;
I have not shunned life’s “tender grace,”
	I wear no sadness on my face
But when the twilight shadows fall,
	And peaceful quiet reigns o’er all,
What wrong to breathe, since none can know,
	“I want you so!  I want you so!”
I have not turned away my eyes
	From green of earth, or blue of skies,
And I still hear, as once I heard.
	The splash of stream and song of bird.
The way seems smooth before my feet,
	Yet in the dusk these tears will flow,
“I want you so!  I want you so!”
I’ve Wished no other laugh less free,
No other’s heart less glad for me.
And I have turned with sudden fear
Lest man should mark the unshed tear,
Or note the quivering that came
When careless voices spoke your name.
But where no footstep passes by,
Dear, is it wrong to make this cry
“Thank God dear love, you can not know,
I want you so! I want you so!
	The Magazine of Poetry,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office,. No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY	-	-	JULY 1, 1892.


QUESTIONS OF INTEREST.

	The subscribers will perhaps notice that the
paper is in new dress this time and it is hoped
that very soon other improvements may be made
it is really desirable that the subscription should
be increased sufficiently to warrant its being pub-
lished weekly, instead of semi-monthly.  Agents
should make an effort in this direction, it would
be a laudable ambition and remember how much
more reading matter you will get for the same
price.

	There are a number of things to be written
about that we have not space for this issue, viz.
our California letter, visits we have made with
the sisters to Tooele, Box Elder and Juab Stakes
to attend Sisters meetings and conferences, of
Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A. and P. A. which
were very interesting and enjoyable.  Sisters Z.
D. H. Young, B. W. Smith, and S. M. Kimball
have been among the speakers who have been
visiting at these places. At Brigham City we had
the pleasure of seeing and hearing the Primary
children at a Concert in the Opera House which
was a very grand affair, and would have been a
credit even to young people.  The little folks did
some fine acting. At Nephi we also had a woman
suffrage meeting in addition to the womens’ Con-
ferences. Sister M. Isabella Horne has been
traveling through parts of this Stake holding
meeting in the various wards, South Cotton Wood
Mill Creek, Taylorsville and others.

	There are so many subjects pending one might
with propriety treat upon editorially that it is
difficult to decide which is the most important, or
what would be the most acceptable.  The great
question of the next President of the United States
is to most people, a very exciting public matter,
and in the two great conventions as well as in the
prohibition Convention, in Cincinnati the pub-
lic sentiment of the parties has been made appar-
ent, or one might say party spirit has at least been
exhibited, however all things considered every-
thing passed off as well as could be expected and
even more harmoniously than might have been
thought judging by appearances.  So far so good,
but the end is not yet reached, but for the good
name of our great Republic it is to be hoped
peace and good order may be maintained and a
disposition to bear dissappointment bravely if on
the losing side.  Women are as deeply interested
in this grave national matter as men can possibly
be and have as much or more at Stake. It re- 
mains to be proven what either party will do for
women.  Miss Anthony has considerable influence
with the Republican party, but whether it is suffi-
cient even with all her ablest co-workers and the
whole association of the N. A. W. S.  A. to pro-
duce any positive effect, or radical change it is
impossibly to say.  One fact however is well-

[Column 2]
known that the woman suffrage cause is growing
in popularity every day, and that alone is suffi-
cient indication of its ultimate success.

	The Old Folks Excursion to Payson on Wed-
nesday June 29th, was the largest and one of the
most plesant “outs” they have ever enjoyed.
We intend to give it somewhat in detail in our
next issue of the paper, but as copy was just about
all in before it took place, we can only make
brief mention of it here.  It is certainly a happy
occasion for the aged who have little
opportunity for pleasure and it is very noticable
that they look forward to it with a happy antici-
pation each succeeding year. Surely those who
give of their means to this benevolent enterprise
must feel abundantly blest in return in witnessing
the happiness they bestow upon the aged infirm
and comparatively helpless who are slowly but
surely descending the hill of life. The D. &R. G.
railway people have been most magnanimous
in placing their cars and engine at the disposal of
the Old Folks Committee too much cannot be
said in their praise, and this time a larger com-
pany went out than ever before one thousand
people over seventy years old were aboard the
train at the time of reaching Payson some of
them were taken on at different stations on the
route.  The good people of Payson were more
than hospitable, they were magnanimously gen-
erous in their preparations to entertain the vet-
erans, and carriages and teams were in waiting
on the arrival of the train, bands of music playing,
and for those who chose to walk, sweet fresh hay
had been spread all the way from the depot to the
grove which was soft and fragrant.  Sunday School
children with flags and banners lined the entire
distance, and when the grove was reached the
long tables spread with the bounties of the earth
and every delicacy of the season were in waiting
young men and maidens with dainty white caps
and aprons, ribbons etc., displaying the national
colors vied with each other in attendance upon the
party.  The flags, banners and festooning with
bunting, tents and stands for the speakers at the
grove gave the whole affair the appearance of an
out-door banquet and such indeed it was.
	These excursions are of all nationalities and
creeds, and irrespective of race or color. It has
become an annual custom and one that seems
likely to survive for the young people growing up
in our midst enter into the spirit of it, and will as-
surredly perpetuate the practise when those who
inaugurated it shall have passed away.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Mrs. Susa Young Gates, daughter of the late
President Brigham Young, and editor of the
Young Woman's Journal, left this City June 16,
enroute for Boston or rather Cambridge to take a
summer course of instruction in literature at
Harvard College.
	A VERY pretty gift and much appreciated was
that of a box of pressed ferns and sea-weed from
the Sandwich Islands and the box contained
unique Relief Society badges, such as were worn
by the native sisters there on Jubilee Day, March
17.  The badges were for Zina D. H. Young and
her Counselors including one for the editor.  It
was a very pretty remembrance of their sisters
far away.
	We acknowledge with grateful thanks the gen-
erous gifts of bouquets of choice flowers, some
from the garden, some from the mountain side,
some from the wildwood, all beautiful and speak-
ing in tender but silent language of friendship and
affection.  In trying to recall the-givers of these
testimonials of love, we remember Minnie
Christenson, Jane Cowen, Betsy Glover, James
Dwyer, and some from unknown sources, but we
prize them all.


THIS seems to be a season of recreation and
enjoyment, lawn fetes, picnics in the cañons, ex-
cursions here and there; lake bathing and all sorts
of summer festivities are being indulged in by
old and young; the city never presented a finer
appearance, the June roses have been more
plentiful than ever; and it does seem indeed a
delightful pleasure to have a profusion of flowers.
In the country too vegetation though late gives
promise of a plentiful harvest, and everywhere
around peace and plenty smile upon the people.
	MRS. Amelia F. Young returned about a week
ago from abroad, where she has been making
quite an extended tour on the continent and in
Great Britain, having been absent more than a
year, and during that time sojourned in several of
the large cities long enough to visit the most at-
tractive places of interest. Like most travelers
Mrs. Young seems to have been best pleased with
Paris, though she has enjoyed being in and sight-
seeing London, also Berlin, Berne, and many other
cities as well as those not quite so famous. Mrs.
Young is looking remarkably well and her wel-
come home was most cordial, for she is sincerely
beloved and greatly admired by her friends in
Utah.
	THERE seems to be a positive movement now
regarding representation for Utah at the World’s
Fair in Chicago. We hear of plans for the build-
ing, and as we have repeatedly heard a beautiful
site has been assigned to this Territory, it is but
natural to think a handsome building will be
erected thereon.  A Committee of ladies has
been appointed and will doubtless commence
work in their department of the undertaking
right away. The ladies are Mrs. F. S. Richards
of Salt Lake, President, Mrs. F. D. Richards of
Ogden, Vice President, Mrs. J. N. Dart, Salt
Lake, Mrs. Geo. Thatcher, Logan, Mrs. Electa
Bullock, Provo, Miss May Preston is Secretay of
the Board.  The committee of ladies are
well qualified for the positions to which they are
called, and it is hoped they will have the support
and influence necessary to success, from the
gentlemen of the committee and the people at
large.


SARAH G. RICHARDS
	One by one are being gathered home into the
higher spiritual life beyond, those who have as-
sisted in laying the foundations broad and deep
and strong, of the Latter-day work in this dispen-
sation.  Mrs. Richards whose demise we here re-
cord was one of the early converts to the Gospel
in England.  A woman of rare attainments, and
of the most sensitive and refined nature.  Modest
and unassuming, she devoted herself exclusively
to her family and a few choice friends.
	She loved the truths of heaven as revealed in
this day and age of the world and was ready to
make any sacrifice for the cause she embraced with
all her heart.  Dr. Levi Richards husband of the
deceased lady died in 1876, and now they have
doubtless been united where there will be no
more pain or parting forevermore.  One son Levi
Willard Richards survives them, his mother was
no more devoted to him, than he was solicitous
for her welfare and care while she was living.  A
more extended notice of her life and death will be
given at another time.  She departed in peace
with her son, his wife and other dear ones around
her bedside and so calm and serene was her de-
parture that those who were near could scarcely
believe it was possible the beautiful spirit had
fled.  Her death occurred in the afternoon of
Tuesday June 7, 1892 at her residence in the 20th
Ward of this City.
	“Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord yea,
from henceforth, they rest from their labors and
their works do follow them.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.			5


[column 1]
AN INTERESTING JOURNEY.
	The comforting addresses by President F. A.
Hammond and others at the funeral of Brother
Swan were consoling in their nature, and calcu-
lated to allay the excess of grief which up to that
time was very distressing.
	After the services were over the cortege wound
its way to the burial-place which is situated on a 
high bluff or mountain top a beautiful resting
place for the dead, it being the season of wild
flowers made the appearance of the cemetery 
still more attractive.
	The next day, which was the regular monthly
fast meeting, the brethren and sisters convened 
at the residence of Sister Lydia Taylor, for al-
though there is a meeting house at La Platta
nearly finished, yet on account of the high winds
it was considered wisdom to meet in a private
house until the windows were all in, and the 
building quite secure.  The meeting was well at-
tended the large room being well filled and a 
lively spirited time was enjoyed by all present.
	In the afternoon of the same day May 5th, the 
Relief Society of the La Platta branch of Burnham
ward was fully organized by President Hammond
and the local authorities, Mrs. Lydia Taylor
President; the names of all the officers will appear
in a future number.
	Friday morning, May 6th, about 8 a. m. we
went on our journey, we were in sight of the San
Juan river, for a long distance the country on both 
sides of the river was settled by enterprising
colonizers, who had built substantial houses some
of them quite smart in appearance, excellent
fences and the gardens under fine cultivation;
immense tracts of land sown with wheat just
showing itself above the ground gave promise of 
an abundant harvest.  About noon camped,
rested our horses, and lunched in a cosy nook be-
tween the mountains, afterwards drove on to a 
good camping ground for the night; we rose
early and drove twelve miles to Cherry Creek be-
fore breakfast, which we partook of under an im-
mense pine tree; then pursued our way through
dense forests of cedar and pine; the road being
very dangerous we had to observe a great deal of
caution, until we passed a long and precipitous
dugway cut on the side of a mountain, after
which the roads were better until we arrived at
Mancos, which is a ward of magnificent distances
being fifteen miles in length; there we were
pleased to hear the welcome sound of the rail-
road whistle for the first time since leaving the
D. and R. G. R. R. at Thompson's Springs on 
our journey.  A few miles further we reached the
residence of Bishop Halls where we recieved a
most cordial welcome from the Bishop and his
interesting wife who is the daughter of President
Hammond, her younger sister, a charming girl
resides with her, and she has also a little daughter 
eighteen months old.
	Here we enjoyed a resting place and felt suf-
ficiently refreshed in the morning to attend Sun-
day School in company with the Bishop and
family also President Hammond and wife, a long
distance away; the meeting house is quite a credit
to the settlement, and they have a good organ,
Mrs.  Halls performs the part of the organist, the
school is well conducted, children orderly and a 
large attendance.  On account of being so far 
from the Bishop's a number of us had our lunch
on the porch of the meeting house.
	At 2 p. m. the regular Sunday services were
held, President Hammond occupying a part of the 
time; Sister Freeze and myself each made a brief 
address.
	Monday morning we met with the Primary in
the meeting house, heard their exercises which
were nicely rendered, and each of us gave a few
words of encouragement to the little folks; they
were a fine lot of healthy looking children, a 
credit to any community.  At 2 p. m. had quite

[column 2]
an interesting time in meeting with the members 
of the Relief Society and becoming acquainted 
with the sisters who expressed themselves as
much gratified by our visit and teachings.
	The next morning was the meeting of the Y. L.
M. I. A. a fine intelligent gathering of young
ladies, who though living in an isolated part of 
the country seemed to be well posted on the 
questions of the day, and on general subjects of 
information; we had an excellent time with them
and enjoyed their society very much.
	After resting for a day or two we visited Mrs.
Dunton the President of the Relief Society, who
lives seven miles from Mancos up in the moun-
tains in a most beautiful locality among timber,
her farm being a plateau of one hundred and
sixty acres almost surrounded by a forest, there
is a delicious spring of water near the residence,
and all the farm not under cultivation covered
thick with lovely wild flowers.  Some of the 
young girls went on a picnic excursion up in the
mountains near Mancos, and found a hundred and
twenty varieties of beautiful wild flowers At Mrs.
Dunton's we had a delicious grouse for dinner
cooked in regular English style, found near her
own house, which we enjoyed with a relish.  The
road going and coming was exceedingly rough;
composed of rocks in every shape, form and size
imaginable; which we got over, as Sister Eliza used
to say with a few "healthy jolts."  The day had
been a very fine pleasant one in every  particular
and we are likely to remember the delightful
scenery, and the picturesque little home "in the 
clearing" so to speak, where industry and thrift
have made beautiful "a waste place in the
desert."
	Success to the perseverance and pluck of such
women citizens, they ought to have the right of 
suffrage, they richly deserve it.
			[To be continued]


IN RURAL ENGLAND.
			XVI.

	Lord Walton was deeply impressed with
the manner and appearance of Miss Conway;
he had heard of her through the family so-
licitor, but after seeing and hearing her, he
felt, "the half had not been told."
	Then too Miss Conway had improved
greatly since coming to the castle; the res-
ponsibility that had come to her in the po-
sition of hostess gave altogether more ease
and calmness to her general demeaor; nat-
urally she was a lady, yet  unaccustomed to
the society of people of rank, and therefore
she had manifested a hesitancy and apparent
dread of meeting people, that wore off as
from time to time she was brought in con-
tact with distinguished persons.  Her home
life had formerly been quiet, and the eti-
quette and usages of society she only knew
through the teaching of others; but these
matters require practical application, and
few people indeed, however bright and well
read they may be, have sufficient native
grace, courtesy and tact to feel perfectly
serene in the company of those who have
been trained from infancy in the smallest
details of receiving, entertaining and those
numberless ceremonies that must be observ-
ed in the "best society."
	Miss Conway was one in a thousand, and
every one who came into her presence felt
her superiority, though often unable to des-
cribe the why or wherefore.
	It was this fact that Lord Walton had re-
alized, and he was almost self-condemned
when conversing with her about Maitland.
With truly characteristic dignity she told
the story of Maitland’s attachment to Lady 
Anna with which the reader is already ac-
quainted.
	Miss Conway did not leave him in the
dark in regard to the impulsiveness of his
son, for she observed by the drift of his re-
marks that he inclined to the belief that her
cousin had been most infatuated, in fact had
set a trap to catch his son by her wiles, in-
trigue and artifice.
	It roused her womanly reserve to a pitch
of enthusiasm she had not believed herself
capable of feeling, and it greatly pleased Dr.
Bland, who saw that she was capable of
becoming a very queen in power, and deter-
mination when opposed or misunderstood.
Royally she plead her cousin Anna’s cause,
showing how her affections had been won,
and how she had suffered through the cruel-
ty of pride and the enmity that separated the 
two families.
	Miss Conway was very loth to consent to
the meeting between her cousin and Mait-
land’s father, but after some persuasion from
Dr. Bland, who felt it might be productive 
of the best interests of all parties concerned,
she reluctantly yielded and informed her
that Maitland's father desired to be present-
ed to her, and urged her to meet him in the
drawing-room immediately, so that the ordeal
would soon be over, adding at the same time,
"Have no fears Anna he dare not be arro-
gant with one of his own rank, besides re-
member you have a brother to defend your
position, and in sober earnest, I cannot but
believe Lord Walton will be favorably im-
pressed with your sweet simplicity and in-
nocent face."
	"You love me so much dear cousin Jane
that I seem more attractive in your eyes, do
not imagine that others see me as you do."
	"You are indeed very beautiful Anna,
and must draw all hearts to you by your
very artlessness and freedom from guile, of
which the great world to which you belong
is so full."
	It was the first time her cousin Jane had
spoken thus, but she saw she needed en-
couragement to meet this man, whom she
had been so much in dread of for many
weary months, and so while she was adjust-
ing her ribbons and laces a little Jane talk-
ed on to keep her spirits up, and then they
went down to the drawing-room together.
	Miss Conway saw directly that Lord Wal-
ton was surprised with her beauty, and re-
gal manner; for unlike her more heroic cous-
in, she had been throughly trained by her
French governesses in that elegance of style;
for which French women have ever been
celebrated.  For once this man of the world
seemed really embarrassed, he scarcely ad-
dressed half a dozen words to Lady Anna
beyond the simple introductory ceremony,
and excused himself by remembering that
he had an engagement that he must keep.
	Neither Dr. Bland or Miss Conway help-
ed him in the least towards interviewing
Miss Hilliard, and when he had taken his
departure, and the spell of his presence was
broken, Lady Anna retired to her own room,
and the Doctor forgetting he had a patient
waiting for him ardently urged Miss Con-
way to consent to his wish and become his
wife.  It was a lovely, balmy summer af-
ternoon, and they walked out into the shady
avenues under the great proud elms, centur-
ies old, and sauntering to and fro restlessly,
the Doctor told over again the oft repeated
tale of love that is always sweet and new to the
blushing though perchance doubting maid-
en.  He had repeated the story so often that
one would think the girl, would have known,
it by heart, herself but she listened as
though hearing it for the first time, and cer-
tainly it seemed to make a more heartfelt
impression,for contrary to her usual coldness


[column 1]
and indifference she gave him her hand
with such a look of tenderness that he ac-
cepted the silent action as a promise and
clasping her to his heart sealed the compact
with the kiss of betrothal.  Forgetful of all
else he lingered until the shades of evening
began to fall, when suddenly Jane remem-
bered she had household duties to perform
and chiding herself for such neglect, he was
reminded that his horse was standing saddled
and bridled, waiting to take him across the
fields to the sick patient he had totally for-
gotten.
	He was willing to go now, and alone
crossing the fields he could meditate, and
feel more deeply the sense of his happiness.
He had almost despaired of winning her
love, he had believed she would turn to him
in some great need for his strong arm to lean
upon, and that she would make him happy
even thus, but now his cup of joy was brim-
ming o’er and he scarcely knew how to give
expression to his feelings.  All the sounds
of nature were sweet and full of melody as
he rode along, and he was in that mood of
delicious ecstacy that comes with unexpect-
ed bliss.
	Jane was different, unlike the placid Doc-
tor who never thought of blaming himself
for leaving the poor woman so long without
attention, he felt self-satisfied; Jane flew to
her cousin, and finding her in tears inward-
ly condemned the selfishness that had kept
her so long away from duty.  She soothed
her cousin’s temporary grief assuring her
that all would be well now, and her lover
would be able to come openly instead of
making stolen visits as had been his custom.
In fact she prophesied, though she was not
aware of her own prophetic nature her mind
was more at peace, for she had long been
debating within herself whether his love was
deep and strong enough to brave all, and
unite her destiny with one whom she had
only known so short a time.
	When Lord Walton turned his horse’s
head toward home he rode like one pursued,
so eager was he to meet his wife and tell her
of his interview.  He found her anxiously
waiting not knowing what might be the
consequence of his anger.  He came in like
one unconcerned, she rose to meet him, he
motioned her to be seated and then related
what had occurred.  That he had seen the
niece of whom he had previously heard,
"and were you convinced of her superior
wisdom?” inquired his wife, as though she
was innocent of any real knowledge of the one,
who knew of her clandestine visit to the
castle.  ‘‘I have never met any one more of
a match for me or for any other man, for
that matter, such a spirit, if she had been
the Lady of the castle instead of a poor re-
lation she could not have borne herself
more proudly.  She talked as if she were
both father and mother to Sir Edward’s
daughter,  and that cold-blooded Doctor
Bland, sat back and admired her evidently
congratulatory, while she argued her cous-
in’s cause like an expert lawyer, instead of a
country cousin.”
	‘‘And how did it end, satisfactorily it
would seem from your composure?” this
was all Lady Walton ventured to say, she
did not ask if he had seen Miss Hilliard or
her brother, somehow she stood in fear of
him, but Miss Conway she felt sure would
keep her secret inviolate.
	‘‘It came out well enough, that is I saw
this fine young lady for whom Maitland is
dying in love, though I doubt it, and yet
she is beautiful, how that old bear should
have such a delicate, refined, and gentle
daughter I can’t possibly understand, it

[column 2]
comes of the good blood generations back I
suppose you would say. ”
	Further conversation was prevented by
the entrance of Maitland, who not knowing
of his father’s visit or that he was in the
house, came hastily in to speak to his moth-
er before going out for a ride, his father
noticing he was booted and spurred said,
“whither away young man, is this the way
you come to your mother’s apartments, have
you no respect for the proprieties that you come
thus unceremoniously into your mother’s
boudoir? I shall begin to believe you are as
desperately infatuated as I have been in-
formed by your new-found acquaintances.”
   “And pray who may they be?” inquired
the young man hotly not guessing that his
father had been to the castle or knew
aught of his visits there.
	“Hold young man, show a trifle more re-
spect, I am not to be questioned in this mat-
ter, but first answer me where were you go-
ing?”  “For a ride in the open air, and to
call on a young friend who has lately come
from abroad;” replied Maitland respectfully.
	“And that young friend is a gentleman
trust?” retorted his father. “In every
sense of the word and a most agreable com-
panion, the son of our neighbor, the late
Sir Edward Hilliard, of whose existence ev-
en the family were not aware until since his
father’s death.”
	Indeed a very pretty romance, but hard to
believe considering that at the time this
young man was born, Sir Edward was dy-
ing to be revenged upon me for marrying
your mother,” and as he pronounced the
last words he looked towards his wife to see
what effect it would have; he saw she was
deathly pale, but Maitland trembled from
head to foot, and groaned aloud; sinking in-
to a chair he covered his face, as though he
would shut out all the world.
	Lord Walton was satisfied, for he was de-
termined to ascertain whether his son knew
aught of the difficulty that had created the
enmity between Sir Edward and himself,
and he turned then to his wlfe, who was
trying to soothe her son, and as though half
sorry said, “Maitland is womanish, he is his
mother’s child certainly, such weakness I
dislike, why should he be shocked, there is
nothing disgraceful about it.  However he
had better ascertain if this girl of whom he
is so enamored is honorably born; if the
young man is heir, what is she?”
	Lady Walton was too much annoyed to
reply, and a servant came in answer to her
call with some wine and restoratives, for
Maitland, and therefore the conversation
was discontinued.  Maitland soon revived
and his father having left the room, without
questioning his mother, whose heart he felt
must have been wounded by his father’s
coarse allusion to Sir Edward, and the girl he
so tenderly loved, he expressed his resolve
to take the ride in the open air, which he 
had previously intended.  Alone with his
own thoughts, he could recover himself,
and decide what to do in the near future in
this affair, which awkward from the first
had become still more complicated and em-
barrasing.


6		﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND P. A.
			REPORTS.

			BEAR LAKE.
   The Conference of the Relief Society of
the Bear Lake Stake of Zion convened in
the meeting house at St. Charles, on Sun-
day at 2 p. m. May 29, 1892. Stake Pres.
J. P. Lindsay presiding. Meeting com-
menced by singing "Lord we Come Before
Thee Now." Prayer by Bishop John H.
Hart. Singing. President J. P. Lindsay
spoke of the Jubilee which had been held
in each Society throughout the Stakes of 
Zion. She said we all are missionairies
here on earth, and there is no time to be
lost in filling our mission. No one should
treat lightly sacred things. Spoke of the
need of education and of understanding the
organization of our bodies and how to take
good care of them. Urged the mothers in
Israel, who will have to rear the young, to
gain the confidence of the children and cor-
rect them in a spirit of kindness and care-
fulness. Said that the children should pre-
pare to fill the higher offices; that they may
be more able to fill them than those who
now occupy those places. Spoke of the
necessity of being inspired of God when
chosing a partner for life and for all eternity,
and advised all the young people to be care-
ful and not trifle with the sacred feelings of
others.
   Our Heavenly Father is ever ready and
willing to hear and answer the prayers of
the faithful. The Lord wants us to do all
we can first, and then he will help. Said
that she wished the reports of each Jubilee
handed in. The speaker spoke of the
request of Pres. Zina D. Young and her
Counselors to appoint an agent, for the EX-
PONENT, from each Society.
   Stake Counselor L. W. Hart was glad the
Sisters were growing better and getting bet-
ter acquainted with the principles of the
Gospel. Also felt thankful that she had the
privilege of working out her own salvation.
Spoke of the necessity of performing good
works in order to fill our mission, and of the
importance of faith that we may be able to
please God, for by faith all good has been 
and will be done. The speaker said that all
are subject to trials, tribulations, hopes and
fears in this life, and it is worth every effort
we are called on to make to gain our salva-
tion. Spoke of having charity for others
and said backbiting would not help us, but
those who indulge in it injure others.
   Bishop J. H. Hart bore his testimony to
the effect that the words which had been 
spoken were true. Said that it was neces-
sary for us to meet together to be taught,
spoke of the blessings we receive and of the
promises God has made; also of the man-
ifestations of the Spirit of God.
   Pres. J. P. Lindsay spoke of the Stake
Fund and of appointing two ladies from
each Society to visit the Primaries each
meeting.
   Singing, "The Lord is King." Bene-
diction by Brother J. A. Bagley.
		SYLVIA BROOMHEAD, Cor. Sec'y.

			GOSHEN.
   A special meeting of Goshen Relief So-
ciety was held May 13th, 1892, in Relief
Hall. There were present Stake President
Mary John and her Counselor Marilla Dan-
iels. Meeting commenced at 10 a. m: Pres-
ident Mary Johnson presiding, singing
"O say what is truth." Bishop Wm. Price
offered the opening prayer after which was
sung: "Sweet is the work my God, my
King", and the minutes of the last meeting
were read.
   President Mary Johnson, "we have our
Stake President and Sister Daniels with us
and they will speak to us."
   President Mary John was pleased to meet
with us. Hoped we would have a good
time together. Spoke of the book that was
going to be published containing history and


Jubilee reports of the Relief Society, also
spoke of the EXPONENT and hoped more
would subscribe for it. Said, "These so-
cities are good schools for us. The Jubilee
was a great thing for us all, showing the in-
terest of the sisters in the work. It is de-
sired that the Temple should be finished
this year and it requires our mite in this.
This is a great work and we cannot do too
much good for the futherance thereof. We
should teach the children while they are
young, and be diligent in order to gain the
smiles and approbation of our Heavenly
Father. The more good we do here the
greater will be our reward hereafter.
   Counselor Marilla Daniels said: "We
have a great mission to perform, and we
 cannot do so without the aid of the Lord.
We have to seek him in our closets, for that
is the way to obtain his spirit to guide us.
We may expect trials to prove us and they
will prove blessings." She showed the dif-
ference between the circumstances of the 
saints now and those of the early days.
Spoke of the work in the Temples, training
of our children, attending to the sick, culti-
vating faith in our children. In the days of
Navuoo she said: "The Prophet desired the
sisters to pay one cent a week to help build
the Temple; the people were very anxious
to have a Temple in that day, and we should
be just as anxious now. It is just as essen-
tial for us to work for the dead as for the liv-
ing, for we cannot be saved without them. 
Let us do all we can while we are here so
when we depart we will be missed.
   The Bishop and several of the brethren
met with us and gave some good and timely
advice. Emma Jenkins sang the "Unknown
Grave."
   Louisa Taylor knew this was the true
work. Spoke of her early days and the
blessings of the Relief Society. Sarah Rob-
erts was thankful to be a member of the 
Church and hoped to be able to keep the
commandments of God. President Johnson
said "our time had been well spent we would
meet again in the afternoon."
   Singing, "May we who know the joyful 
sound." Benediction pronounced by Elder
Wm. Finch.
   Afternoon services were similar to the
morning meeting. The stake presidency
spoke of the good we could do to the sick
and the blessings we were enjoying. Pres-
ident Johnson and Counselors Ellison and
Gourley and Mary Dodds with some more
of our brethren and sisters gave good and
timely advice. The necessity for a suffrage
association was discussed at some length but
as Sister Bullock did not come we were not
organized. 	
			LOUISA TAYLOR, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMEN AT MINNEAPOLIS.
	The women who were present as alter-
nates at the Republican convention at Min-
neapolis were naturally the observed of all
observers. They seem to have borne the
observation well. Men from various parts
of the country have expressed, in a manner
at once pleasant and amusing, their surprise
to find these Wyoming women very much
like other women, good-looking, well-dress-
ed, lady-like and amiable, not perceptibly
"unsexed" in any way by the exercise of
suffrage.
	The ladies have, of course, been repeat-
edly questioned as to the working of woman
suffrage in Wyoming, and have had to ex-
plain over and over that it has created no
soul-harrowing revolution, no subversion of


the foundations, no antagonism between
men and women. "The men of Wyoming
were as desirous for us to attend the conven-
tion as the women," said Mrs. Cora G. Car-
leton, of Hilliard, Uinta Co. "It is the fun-
niest thing in the world to come east and
notice the classification of sex. We should
never know in public life that there was
such a difference. For twenty years Wyom-
ing has enjoyed woman suffrage, and the
women have voted as naturally as they have
fulfiled any of the duties of life. There is
never anything disagreeable connected with
going to the polls. The right is exercised
freely, as a matter of course. Did you
know," added she, "that there are men in
my State ranging from twenty to seventy
years in age, who, having lived in the Ter-
ritory all their lives, never voted for a Pres-
ident? Yet all of the women who are twen-
ty-one will cast a vote at the same time they
do in November. We all trust and hope it
will be for Harrison."
	Mrs. Theresa A. Jenkins, of Cheyenne,
who was greeted with cheers at the stations
all along the route, is reported as saying:
"I am for Harrison. It was the Harrison
administration that made us a State, and
therefore we Wyoming women are loyal to
the President. I have no vote in the con-
vention. I am here only by the courtesy of
the State, and by the withdrawal of one
county delegate. Although I do not have
a vote, yet many of the famous wire-pullers,
feeling that by the uniqueness of the position
I might be able to shape public opinion to
some extent, have tried to influence me; but
they have found that neither money nor
position can tempt a woman to swerve from
her political principles. I am for Harrison
first, last and all the time. Mrs. Harrison
believes in woman suffrage and is loyal to
all women, and she is just the woman we
want in the White House."
	Miss Susan B. Anthony, president of the
National-American W. S. A., was granted
a hearing before the committee on resolutions.
She presented the memorial published in an-
other column, and spoke earnestly for the
adoption of a woman suffrage plank. A
number of memorials asking for a suffrage
plank were presented to the committee on
resolutions, and were widely circulated by
the press.
		A. S. B.
	Woman's Journal:


The National Editorial Association, at its
recent annual meeting in San Francisco, de-
cided henceforth to exclude from member-
ship all "class" Press Associations. This
rules out all the Women's Press Associations.
If a society composed exclusively of women
is a "class" association, a society composed
exclusively of men is equally so. To be
consistent, the National Editorial Associ-
ation ought to exclude all State Press As-
sociations that do not admit women to mem-
bership.—Ex.


L. D. S. COLLEGE EXERCISES.

	I visited the Latter-day Saints College to
hear the closing exercises of this year, and
from the sublime address delivered by one of
the graduates, Philip S. Maycock, I send you
an extract which you will I trust please give
place in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	"I wish to remark in passing that,in represent-
ing the graduates on this memorable occasion, I
have the honer of representing almost as many
ladies as gentlemen. She has demonstrated


her capacity of entering the ranks of the
teachers' profession, and keeping there an hon-
ored place.
	She has shown that she is as competent of
moulding the plastic mind of the child, as are
the members of the sterner sex, nay, even
more competent. In this college, at least, she
long ago dissipated that fallacious claim of
man's intellectual superiority over woman; for
she has indisputably proven that, under the
same school conditions, her intellectuality out-
shines that of man."
	"Mrs. Charlotte Emerson Brown in her
biennial address, outlines the work and pro-
gress of the last two years. She said there is
no longer any doubt as to the wisdom of this
movement. Our movement is a necessary part
of the new civilization. Ours is an age of
intellect and of critical investigation. Every
question is being analyzed and resolved into
its elements The axe is at the root of every
tree.
	"Theology, civil government, questions in
sociology, all of vast practical movement, are
under investigation as unsolved problems. In
this search for new truth and readjustment of
human relations, woman comes to the front
and is an important factor. Woman's clubs
are a great educator and developer of woman's
powers for the new position they are called to
occupy. They inspire high aims, broader in-
formation, teach women to think and to ex-
press thought clearly on paper, or in extempor-
aneous addresses. They are teachers in parlia-
mentary usage; they are schools for post
graduates,and they help women to know them-
selves and their own capabilities."
		DR. E. S. BARNEY.
	June 1st, 1892.


"DI VERNON" MAKES A HIT.

	A member of our Pacific Coast Women's
Press Association, Eliza D. Keith, who writes
for the San Francisco News Letter over the
pen name of "Di Vernon," has just scored a
journalistic triumph over no less a periodical
than the Illustrated American. If "Di Ver-
non" has a hobby, it is American patriotism,
and the prevention of cruelty to animals.
	Beginning with a Fourth of July article,
1890, she published a glowing article in the
News Letter, in which occur these words: "It
is treason to haul down the flag from the mast-
head; it is treason to degrade it in the esti-
mation of a child." In February, 1891, she
asked: "Shall the flag of our country be de-
based by bearing upon its fair surface an ad-
vertising device? If there be no law to prevent
it, let us have one at once."
	In September, 1891, she delivered a mag-
nificent address before the Women's Press-
Association at Union Square Hall. The per-
oration was a grand patriotic outburst, calling
upon Congress to protect the flag from the ad-
vertising fiend. This was published in the
Daily Report, of San Francisco, and in the
New York Journalist, giving it a widespread
circulation. This address also contained an
exposition of "Di Vernon's" pet project, the
organization of the "Order of the American
Flag," a patriotic legion, among the children
of America.
	At other times during the last few years,
Eliza D. Keith (Di Vernon) has made sim-
ilar appeals to arouse the patriotic sentiment.
	Imagine her surprise, taking up a copy of
the Illustrated American in April, 1892, to
find a self laudatory editorial, in which the pa-
per congratulated itself that the crusade which
it had inaugurated against the flag advertis-
ing was about to bear fruit. To claim the
whole credit for that aroused Di Vernon's
sense of justice. She wrote to the editor, ask-
ing the date of the "inauguration." Mr. Min-
ton replied in courteous note, stating that


the matter was brought up in editorials of vol.
9, page 530, dated Feb. 6, 1892.
	Eliza D. Keith (Di Vernon) has dug up
all the dates of her patriotic articles, and in
the News Letter of May 14, 1892, has pub-
lished a history of the whole matter, under the
appropriate caption: "Honor the Flag."
	With characteristic directness, Di Vernon
asks: "Don't you think that instead of taking
the lead, you were rather late in dropping in-
to line?"—The Journalist.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	A noble deed is a step toward heaven.
	It is a thousand times better to suffer than
to sin.
	Afford others the same indulgence you would
wish to receive.
	One knows the value of pleasure only after
he has suffered pain.
	It is far less dangerous to slip with the foot
than with the tongue.
	Prayer will make us leave off sinning, or
sinning will make us leave off praying.
	A bitter jest, when it comes too near the
truth, will leave a sharp sting behind it.


[Column 1]

IN MEMORIAM.

	Another noble spirit has departed! one whom
we had vainly hoped to keep with us longer, and
we feel deeply the want of her presence, her be-
loved society, which was ever like the perfumed
flower, dispensing sweets through every hour.
Sister Mary Haines Jacobs, was the beloved
daughter of John and Sarah Haines, she was born
August 13th 1827, at North Petheston, Somerset-
shire, England, she joined the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints in 1853, or '54, emi-
grated to America in 1857; leaving her parents,
brothers and sisters for the Gospel's sake. She
was married October 14th, 1858, to Daniel Jacobs,
in the State of New York; in 1859 they were able
to come to Utah; Brother Jacobs having means
enough to pay his wife's passage, and working
upon the way to pay his own way. They passed
through all the hardships that the Saints in those
days had to endure. Sister Jacobs was ill all the
way crossing the plains, but she never murmured;
she passed through many severe trials, but was
faithful to the end, always cheerful and contented
happy in doing good for those around her, never
a word of complaint passed her lips; her faith and
trust in God were unbounded. A true wife and
mother in the truest sense of the term, she pos-
sessed a spirit of love and benevolence towards
all, to know her was to love her, for she always
had a kind word and a pleasant smile for one and
all, she has been active in many public capacities;
Sister Jacobs made her home for some time in St.
Charles, Bear Lake Couty, Idaho. In 1867 she
was called to act as Counselor in the St. Charles
Relief Society which office she held until 1880,
when she was called and set apart to preside as
President over that Society, which office she held
until 1884, when with her family she moved to
Pleasant Green Ward, Salt Lake County. She
has been a true and faithful member in the Re-
lief Society from that time until the time of her
death, always on hand and willing for any call
that was made of her; she was the mother of six
living children, her second daughter who passed
away some three years ago, having left three
small children, Sister Jacobs performed the part
of a true and loving mother to her daughter's
little children until the time of her demise. She

[Column 2]

died March 27th 1892, at Pleasant Green, of
pneumonia. She leaves a loving husband, five
children and eleven grandchildren to mourn her
loss, her eldest son is now filling a mission in
Indiana.

A bright spirit has flown, a loved one departed
	A gentle one gone to her rest,
While friends are left desolate, bowed and sad.
		hearted,
	Yet feeling that Father knows best.

Cold death often visits the most perfect house-
		hold,
	Selecting the dearest of all; 
None purer, not better, from out of the threshold,
	E'er answered the sorrowful call-

Than Mary,—so lovely in face, mind and spirit,
	Intelligent, gentle and true;
Her counsel so wise, that all paused to hear it,
	Like wisdom is given to few.

Farewell dear mother, we do not mourn thee
	As one dead, but gone to rest,
From thy labors, and thy sufferings,
	With thy kindred to be blest.
		ALVIRA S. HIRST, Pres.
		ANN C. BERTOCH,
		NANCY H. DEARDON,
			Counselors.
		FANNY H. JENKINS, Sec'y.


OBITUARIES.

	Sister Dina Rollins was born July 26th, 1816, in
London, England, where she became a member
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
She emigrated to Utah in 1852, and soon after
settled in Mound Fort, where she remained al-
most continuously until her decease.
	After years of faithful labor as a teacher she
was appointed on Jan. 9th, 1882, First Counselor
to the President of the Mound Fort Relief Society
and faithfully magnified that calling, always being
on hand to strengthen the weak and administer to
the sick and needy.
	Declining health deprived the Society of her
esteemed labors of love, and feeling unwilling to
occupy a position she could not magnify, she
tendered her resignation which was accepted with
regret on Dec. 28th, 1890.
	After a lingering and painful illness she died
May 28th, 1892, a faithful and true Latter-day
Saint in the hope of a glorious resurrection.
	Two surviving children and many grand chil-
dren, together with a large circle of relatives and
friends mourn her loss. May she rest in
peace.
			ANNIE D. TAYLOR.
	MOUND FORT, June 19th, 1892.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sister
Clara Marshall, who departed this life on Tues-
day August 25th, 1891. Aged 49 years and 8
months.
	Whereas,—Our Heavenly Father has in His in-
finite wisdom, removed from our midst our be-
loved sister Clara Marshall and
	Whereas, —That we the officers and members
of the Mill Ward Relief Society do mourn her loss
realizing that we have lost a noble sister whose
hand was ever ready to help the sick and
afflicted.
	Resolved,—That we the officers and members
of the Mill Ward Relief Society do mourn her loss
realizing that we have lost a noble sister whose
hand was ever ready to help the sick and
afflicted.
	Resolved,—That we tender our heartfelt sym-
path to her bereaved children.
	Resolved,—That a copy of these resolutions be
placed on the records of the Relief Society, and a


copy be sent to the bereaved family, and the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT.
		SARAH COLTON,
		MELLISSA REYNOLDS,
		ABIGAIL OAKS.


MRS. M. E. VAN. M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p m

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, millinery, late
s'yles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmedt
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait, Burial Suits a Specialty
No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
Three doors west of Theatre.

R.K. THOMAS
26,28,30and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
RK. THOMAS

THE
Standard Gauge
RAILWAY!
THROUGH THE.
ROCKY MOUNTAINS!
Choice of Three Distinct Routes,
AND THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT RAILROAD SCENERY
IN THIS WORLD.
Two Fast Express Tains Daily 
EACH WAY BETWEEN
OGDEN, SALT LAKE AND DENVER. 
ELEGANT RECLINING CHAIR CARS!
Free of Charge.
Direct Connections made In Union Depots.
THE MOST THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED RAILWAY
in THE WEST.
D.C. DODGE, A. E.WELBY, J.H. BEVNETT,
Genl. Hgr.               Supt.             G. F. & P. A. 
DAVID JAMES & CO. 
TINNERS CAS.WATER & STEAM FITTERS
eg- Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
he country promptly responded to.
DAVD JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 21.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15, 1892.		NO. 2.


CONTENTS.

	Woman's Work—Phebe C. Young. By-Laws,
U. W. P. Club. W. S. A. Reports. Good Words
From Mrs. Boyden. World's Fair Notes. In
Rural England—A Story. Prehistoric Man In
America.
	EDITORIAL:—Notes And Comments. Old
Folks Gala Day. A Good Woman Gone to
Rest. Sarah Griffith Richards—L. L. G. R.
Sad News—Annie D. Stevens.
	Poetry:—Pray—R. M. F. Midsummer—E. B.
W. Romance—F. D. S. To "Jennie"—Annie.


PRAY.

'TIS a time of trial my sisters
	A time when we all need to pray;
And call on our Father for wisdom,
	To guide us through each coming day.

'Tis a day when we need His succor,
	A day when we need to be strong;
For Satan is gath'ring his forces,
	The line of the battle along.

Our paths are bestrewn with temptation,
	Snares and traps for our feet are laid;
And often we trip by the wayside,
	And oft from the path we have strayed

We find as we travel huge boulders,
	That seemingly block up the way,
E'en shut out the sunlight of heaven;
	Now here says the tempter you’ll stay—

You'll surely not try to go farther,
	You'd better turn round and go back;
The way I will show you is fairer,
	And smoother and broader the track.

Tis then we must gather our courage,
	And muster our strength for the fray;
To baffle the cunning of Satan,
	Ah! then is the time we must pray.

Then steals through the darkness a sunbeam,
	A voice whispers softly and low;
I hear you my daughter come hither,
	I'll lead you the way you should go.

Up! up! with new courage we clamber,
	Our faith and hope once more renew;
When lo! we have mounted the boulder,
	And light has burst forth on our view.

Whenever you're borne down with sorrow,
	Or the tempter seeks to waylay;
Go waft your petitions to heaven—
	God pity the soul that can't pray.
			R. M. F.


MIDSUMMER.

'Tis midsummer time, and the new-mown hay,
Lies fresh in the meadows over the way,
The breath of the cowslips and clover bloom,
With the midsummer hay yield a sweet perfume;
And it wafts us back to the by-gone days,
And memory's music around us plays;
And we e'en forget, we are growing old,
As the past with its joyous scenes unfold.


There's the girls and boys as they us'd to be
Chatting and sporting in their youthful glee,
The meadows resound with the merry shout,
Of their voices, so clearly ringing out
In laughter, and song as they rake the hay,
In the sunshine bright on a July day;
And the broad fields are of their beauty shorn,
And off to the bams the hay-loads are borne.

How many summers are over and gone,
How many dear ones, and bright hopes have
	flown;
How oft the flowers have blossom'd and died,
Since in midsummer time a happy bride
Left home and friends, and was borne away,
Just when the meadows were teeming with hay;
The roses and daisies their bloom had shed,
But Juniper berries were ripe and red.

And the humming-bird’s nest swung in the
	breeze,
From the verdant boughs of the Juniper trees;
And the happy lovers gazed on the nest
And thought of the home they'd make in the
	West;
As perfect and charming the home-nest should be
As the tiny thing swinging there from the tree.
Alas! for the bird, the nest, and the mate,
Left alone, to suffer a cruel fate.

And when midsummer ev'ry year returns,
The bird for its mate instinctively years;
But the Juniper tree, and the open door.
Are standing there now, as they did of yore,
And the sunshine floods in amber and gold,
The forests and meadows, just as of old,
But we look in vain for a simple token
Of the lover's vows, that there were spoken.
			E. B. W.


[Column 1]
﻿
WOMAN'S WORK.

	WHAT is it! when did it begin; when will
it end? what is its object and ultimate re-
ward?
	These are questions the answers to which
might fill a volume, and I am fully aware
how impossible it will be in the limited
space of one short article to do justice to
this vast and important subject. If we
should ask when did woman's work begin?
Our minds must travel back to the time
when the earth was new and fresh and fair
from the hands of its Creator. When man
was placed upon it then woman was quickly
by his side, herself the fairest of all and her
influence was quickly felt for good or evil;
but it was when mother Eve heard the cry
of her firstborn and called out in the first
exultation of motherhood, I have gotten a
man from the Lord, that woman's work
really began:

	To be a Mother. Oh that name!
	How hath it filled the world with fame,
	For men of fame had not been here
	Had it not been for mother dear.

	Then when we think upon the myriads
that since that time have been been ushered
upon this mortal stage, with the full knowl-
edge that woman has always been the chief
actor in the scenes then enacted, and reflect
upon the helplessness of infancy and the

[Column 2]

part that woman takes in guiding its first
steps and combating the dangers that beset
the human race in the first stages of its ex-
istence, the nights of watchfulness and days
of care through which she must pass in
order to accomplish this, if she does this
successfully we think her fortunate and yet
her work is only just begun for she must
play her part as a helpmeet for man, she
shares his sorrows and helps him bear his
burdens, often taking a double portion, not
only raising her family but also assisting to
provide for them; but this is a labor of love
and happy is the woman who can afford to
devote her labor and her heart's best en-
ergies for the good of husband and children
in a home where the ruling power is love.
	But often much as we love to contemplate
such a state we are compelled to acknowl-
edge in this day of progress and civilization
that tens of thousands of women must stand
alone. They must fight the battle of life
single handed and seek out vocations for
themselves. Woman can no longer shelter
herself behind her weakness and say I have
no occasion to know anything but house-
hold work and the needle. The woman of
today is called upon to take her part in the
world's work and there are positions for
which she is particularly fitted.
	Woman as a physician has been eminent-
ly successful and there is no place in which
she can labor to better advantage or with
more benefit to herself and others. It has
been conceded that woman as a writer com-
pares well with her brother man, and that
as a writer of fiction she cannot be excelled.
Woman should be careful how she uses so
great a talent. It is said "the pen is
mightier than the sword," and truly it is a
great power for good or evil in the hands of
any that can wield it well.
	As a teacher in schools woman is recog-
nized as capable and efficient and is permit-
ed to perform her full share of labor both in
our private and public schools although per-
haps not always rewarded according to her
merits; in this vocation woman can exercise
great power for good inasmuch as she de-
sires to use the influence she possesses over
the young placed under her charge, and not
only seeks to employ the best method for
imparting the lessons she is expected to
teach that will enable them to take their
places amongst the educated and refined,
but will also strive to implant in the minds
of those she teaches the principles of virtue
and morality and educate the heart as well
as the head.
	I once heard a Professor make the start-
ling assertion that if something were not
done in this respect, some of the institutions
of learning would in a littie while turn out
intellectual monsters; because of the ab-
sence of those moral principles of virtue and
right that are a guiding star to the feet of
youth. In this respect woman may do
much both by her influence and example to
bring about a better state of things.
	But these avenues that may be considered
by some the higher branches of woman's
work are not open to all, and they who are
fortunate enough to be able to enter them
must not look down on, or despise their
humbler sisters. There are thousands of


patient and noble women toilers; doing their
full share of the world's work, that are
scarcely thought of or noticed and yet it is
the result of their labors that brings about
much of the comfort enjoyed by the rest, in
fact the world could not get along without
them; and it should be remembered that it
is the self-educated, self-sustaining men and
women that often reach the highest mark.
	It is part of woman's work to be an angel
of mercy to the sick and suffering, and oh let
her not forget to show mercy to the weak
and erring ones, there is no need to preach
purity to the pure, cleanliness to the clean.
No need to bring water to the springs and
fountains and pleasant places; but strive to
enrich the barren and thirsty land; those that
see do not need their eyes to be opened for
it is the blind that would rejoice in the light
of day, could they behold it; it is not those
that walk in pleasant paths with roses be-
neath their feet that need the rough places
to be smoothed down and the briers and ob-
structions to be removed from their pathway.
It is not the whole that need a physician,
but the sick and suffering, therefore is it the
peculiar work of woman to seek out the
weak and erring ones, especially the young
and pliable; who have perhaps erred through
the heart's best affections or what would
have been if properly directed. Let them
not be cast out to pursue the downward
road, but deal with them in mercy, lead
them back to the paths of virtue and honor
if possible and teach them a better way, for
as the Poet expresses it,

		Oh was it spoken
Go ye forth. Heal the sick, lift the low, bind the
	broken!
Of the body alone. Is our mission then done.
When we leave the bruised hearts, if we bind the
	bruised bone?"

	This is an age of the world when all
brave, true-hearted women are needed to
work as reformers, to assist in solving some
of these social problems that agitate the
minds of thinking men and women today;
one thing is certain, if every woman was
standing in her proper place and doing her
proper portion of the world's work there
would be no social problems to solve.
	But this is not so, and confusion prevails
and many wrongs there are to be set right
and women should work for this end and
not be discouraged because these things can
not be accomplished in a day. The world
has been going wrong for ages in this re-
spect; and how long it will take to put
things right we do not know. Bye and bye
the cry, will go forth to the watchers, what
of the Night? And the answer will be,
The Morning breaks. The day cometh,
the day of emancipation from oppression;
the day of freedom and equality of Human
Rights.
	And will man stand there to be crowned
with the victor's wreath alone? No! Wo-
man will be by his side, his counselor and
fellow laborer, and in that day she will re-
ceive her full reward in justice for all her
labors and many will arise and call her
blessed for the burdens she has borne and
she will see the result of her toil and all
will rejoice that woman has lived and 
worked.
		PHEBE C. YOUNG.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE London Woman's Herald publishes
three hundred and sixty-two names of wo-
man suffrage candidates now in the field for
Parliament.


BY-LAWS.

UTAH WOMAN'S PRESS CLUB.

ARTICLE I.

	Par. I. A regular meeting of the club
shall be held at the EXPONENT parlor on the
last day of each month; unless the date or
place of meeting be changed by a two-thirds
vote of the members present at any regular
meeting.
	Par. 2. The October meeting of each
year shall be the annual meeting. At this
meeting officers shall be elected for the en-
suing year.

ARTICLE II.

	Par. I. Applications for membership
must be presented in writing. After the
approval of the credential committee the ap-
plicant may be received by a majority vote
of the members present. Membership fee
one dollar.

ARTICLE III.

	Par. I. Annual dues shall be one dollar
payable in October and become delinquent
sixty days after the annual meeting.
	Par. 2. No member whose dues are not
paid, shall be entitled to vote.
	Par. 3. Every appointee of the regular
programme who fails to fulfil the part as-
signed her shall be fined twenty-five cents.
	Par. 4. Every member present or ab-
sent except honorary, shall be taxed ten
cents per month to pay for refreshments.

ARTICLE IV.

	Par. I. Honorary members, the number
not to exceed five, may be elected by unani-
mous vote of the club.

ARTICLE V.

	Members may bring friends to meeting,
by paying ten cents for each one, no one
visitor however shall be allowed to attend
more than three meetings during the year.

ARTICLE VI.—Quorum.

	Any presiding officer together with three
regular members shall constitute a quorum
to do business at any regular meeting.

ARTICLE VII.

	All meetings shall be conducted in ac-
cordance with parliamentary law. The
Woman's Manual of Parliamentary Law,
by Harriette R. Shattuck shall be author-
ty.

ARTICLE VIII.

	The by-laws may be amended at any
regular meeting by a two thirds majority
vote of members present.


[Column 1]

W. S. A. REPORTS.

	WOMAN SUFFRAGE AT MAPLETON.
Mrs. E. B. Wells:
	I thought a few lines from the little villa
East of Springville namely Mapleton, would
be of interest to some of your many readers.
In company with myself, Mrs. Hall, Mad-
sen and Hayward visited the Woman Suf-
frage Association of the above named place
by invitation, and found a cordial reception.
There were eighteen members present and
all enthusiastic in the cause of woman, and
we were informed that if our meeting could
have been in the evening the men also
would have turned out, as they were much

[Column 2]

interested in the cause.  We urged upon 
them the necessity of taking the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT also the Woman's Tribune as
an incentive to woman's progressive powers;
of her becoming a factor in the political, as
well as the social arena of life. The
speakers referred to the progress that was
being made in nearly every hamlet and
village in the civilized world and that we 
must not allow ourselves to be left in the 
rear, but keep wide awake to every specia
of reform which aims at the elevation of our
race. We are slowly but steadily trying to
impress upon women the necessity of identi-
fying themselves with our cause, which we
know will finally triumph, because it is the
cause of right.
		Yours in the Gospel,
			SARAH A. BOYER.
	June 22, 1892.

S. L. COUNTY W. S. A.
	The Salt Lake County W. S. A. met as
per adjournment on June 21st, 1892. Presi-
dent Elizabeth Howard in the chair. Open-
ed by singing, "A search for freedom."
Prayer by Maria M. Holt, and singing "Oh
come, come away." Several new members
were voted in. Minutes of the last meeting
were read and approved, and roll called. A
call for agents representing the Association
in the different wards, was responded to by
Mary P. Silver, of the 19th Ward, Emma
Finch of the 20th, E. M. Price of the 15th,
and Eliza Barton of the 21st wards each giv-
ing reports of their labors. Dr. Elvira S.
Barney also reported having held meetings
in several wards, appointed agents, sold
books, received subscriptions for suffrage
papers, etc. Mrs. Price suggested a train-
ing class in politics, that we might improve
our time to better advantage than merely
meeting together and talking upon those
subjects.
	President Howard favored Mrs. Price's
idea of a training class, and requested her to
study it up; gave a report of her visit to
San Juan, and read some questions which
we were required to answer for use at the
World's Fair, concerning women's work,
and thought that if the Relief Society in all
its branches were properly represented, it
would make a grand showing; announced
that the Association would go to Calder's
Park on the 1st of July, taking their picnic,
and asked them all to bring their friends.
	Miss Maud Pratt was unanimously sus-
tained as suffrage agent of the 17th Ward,
also pleased the audience very much by her
fine singing, accompanying herself on the
organ. After which Elizabath Mc'Farlane
read some very interesting descriptions of
women's work, intended for exhibition at
the World's Fair. M. E. Bassett agent for
the 2nd Ward, read some extracts aud made
remarks, C. C. R. Wells and Dr. E. S.
Barney gave some of their views concerning
the present status of woman, and meeting
was adjourned until the third Tuesday in
July, at the same time and place. Singing
"New America." Benediction by E. M.
Price.
			C. C. R. WELLS, Secretary.


Miss Anthony attended the Republican,
Democratic and People's Party conven-
tions. A largely attended mass meeting in
the interests of woman suffrage was held in
Omaha during the People's Party convention
and addresses were made by Mrs. Clara B.
Colby, Rev. Anna H. Shaw and Miss An-
thony.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ROMANCE.

SHE didn't like me when we met,
	But turned away and pouted;
'Twas very cool, I own, to get
At first a snub so final; yet
	I clung to hope and doubted.

Strange as it seems, a few short weeks
	Confirmed my sanguine guesses;
I came to understand her freaks,
And even dared to kiss her cheeks
	And stroke her golden tresses.

So time went on, and as we grew
	To know each other better,
She bravely learned to kiss me, too;
And when she strangely tried to woo,
	Somehow I used to let her.

The privilege still yet is mine
	With kiss her lips to smother;
Still 'round my neck she likes to twine
Her soft, white arms. I'll drop a line,
	I guess, and ask her mother.

This rhyme produces envy—strife,
	Within your reason, maybe;
So let me take a leaf from life:
Her mother is my darling wife,
	And she my blessed baby.
		F. D. S., in Rochester Talisman.


TO "JENNIE."

DEAR "Jennie," hast thou gone to rest?
	And shall we never see
Thy baby form in merry play,
	Thy face in childish glee?
Art laid within the silent tomb
	Forever there to sleeep?
And shall we always mourn thy loss?
	And shall we always weep?

Ah, no! we lay your little form
	Away in robes of white,
That little form so cold, from which
	The spirit took its flight;
Those large round eyes of blue are closed,
	Their laughing look has fled—
Yet oh! there comes a voice to me,
	Which says you are not dead.

How much we miss you, "Jennie" dear,
	No heart but ours can tell;
But He who gave has called you hence
	He doeth all things well.
His spirit whispers words of peace 
	To every sorrowing heart,
And tells us we shall meet once more,
	But never more shall part.

We came to this far-distant land
	Obedient to His will—
He has in wisdom taken you—
	May we prove faithful still,
And ever tread the narrow path
	That we may meet you there,
When death shall come to call us home 
	From sorrow, toil and care.

The dear fond hopes which filled our hearts,
	Of you in future years,
Are banished from them now, or drowned
	Beneath a flood of tears;
Yet while they disappear from view,
	A brighter looms above,
That we shall meet and know our babe
	In realms of endless love.
			ANNIE.


Mrs. Lillie Devereux Blake will
speak at the Chautauqua Assembly, Har-
risonburg, Va., on Aug. 15, which is “Wo-
man’s Day.”


GOOD WORDS FROM MRS. BOYDEN.

	A PERSONAL letter to the Editor from Mrs.
C. Louise Boyden the elocution teacher who
sojourned for a period of about two years in
this City informs us of her arrival at her
own home in Wisconsin, where she is en-
joying a brief season of restfulness ere she be-
gins her work again, this time perhaps in
Chicago until after the Columbian Exposi-
tion when we ardently hope she may return
again to Utah.
	Mrs Boyden has made many warm friends
here who will cherish her memory and hope
for her return. She gave quite a number
of entertainments wirh her pupils in differ-
ent parts of the City, and succeeded in her
efforts in imparting instruction in the Del-
sarte method very well, but financially she
did not make sufficient to warrant her re-
maining permanently though she was much
attached to the place and the people and
speaks most kindly of them everywhere, and
at all times.
	Mrs. Boyden’s methods and practise of
teaching are excellent and she is a most
agreeable and pleasant as well as intelligent
young woman. We are very sorry that she
did not find it to her advantage to remain
here, not only on her own account but also
as there are many of our young women,
who are called to fill public positions, who
would be greatly benefitted by her system
of teaching.
	The lady is a fine musician has formerly
been a music-teacher, but gave it up as too
trying upon her nervous system; and she is
also a writer, while here she joined the Utah
Woman’s Press Club, and was an interested
member; she wishes to be kindly remember-
ed in love to the ladies of the Club, and has
spoken very sweetly of her stay in this City,
she says: “From the quiet repose of my
own dear home, my thoughts go out to you,
so far, far away and dear memories of that
beautiful City of the Saints come hovering
around me as I sit and muse on those hap-
py months I passed there. I am having a
most enjoyable time and a much needed rest
here within the shelter of my lovely home
to which from its calm restfulness and
beauty I have given the name Solitude;
for that word to me expresses beauty as well
as quiet and rest. How I wish you might
enjoy it all with me; rest beneath the shade
of these grand old oaks and be free for a
little while from all the work and strain of
life; I think you would almost feel the fresh-
ness of youth returning to you; everything
is so fresh and sweet here, the song of the
birds, the fragrance of grass and flowers and
the pure air.”
	I hope here to regain all I have lost of my
former vigor and be ready for my work in
the fall. ’Tis very sweet to be at home
with my aged father and meet the old friends,
but I do not forget the new and dear ones
whom I have left behind, and a feeling of
sadness comes o’er me when I think of the
many miles between us. But Hope ever
near to comfort whispers I shall meet you
all again. My time was so limited toward
the last, that I missed seeing many of my
friends to say Good bye, which I regretted
very much.”


MRS. MARGARET E. SANGSTER, the edi-
tor of Harper's Bazar, and Mrs. E. P.
Terhune (Marian Harland) expect to hold
a Woman's Council at the Monona lake
Assembly, Madison, Wis., about the mid-
dle of July.


WORLD’S FAIR NOTES.

	THE administration building will have a
mosaic floor costing $5,000. 
	A COLLECTION of finely mounted birds
and animals will be shown in the Pennsyl-
vania building.
	IT is announced that the Virginia Expo-
sition board intends to reproduce at the
Fair, Mount Vernon, the famous home and
last resting place of George Washington.
if this is done a large and interesting col-
lection of Washington relics will be exhibit-
ed in the structure.
	THE Portuguese minister at Washington
has made application for space in the Wo-
man’s building at the World’s Fair for ex-
hibits from the women of Portugal.
	ACCOMMODATIONS for musical entertain-
ments at the World’s Fair have been decided
upon, and the construction of the neces-
sary buildings has been ordered. They in-
clude a recital hall, seating 500 people; a
music hall, with accommodation for 120
players, 300 singers, and an audience of
2,000; a festival ball for performances upon
the largest possible scale, with 200 players,
2,000 singers and an audience of 7,000. The
music hall will contain a fine concert organ,
and in festival hall will be placed an organ
for chorus support.
	Commissioner L. A. Thurston, of Hawaii,
has received word from Claus Spreckles
that the Hawaiian exhibit will be trans-
ported to San Francisco without charge.
	Mrs. Potter Palmer has decided to sup-
plement her work in inviting the nobility
of Europe to organize committees to help
the Board of Rady Managers by sending
similar invitations to influential women in
South America. These invitations will be
sent out by the state department at Wash-
ington. The letters sent to Europe resulted
in securing the co-operation of many of the
most prominent women abroad.
	A syndicate, representing men of influence
and money in both Austria and the United
States, is making arrangements to produce
in Chicago during the World’s Fair the
famed Passion Play exactly as it has been
given for centuries, at intervals of ten years,
by the people of Ober-Ammergau, Bavaria.
The syndicate is incorporated as “The Orig-
nal Ober-Ammergau Passion Play As-
sociation,” with capital stock of $800,000.
It is reported to be the intention to present
the Passion Play in Chicago with the same
cast and same costumes as were employed
at its presentation at Ober-Ammergau in
1890.


A GOOD word for women students comes
from Buchtel College, Akron Ohio, via Mrs.
Claypole, who is fortunate in having two
bright and beautiful daughters graduate
there this year.  The young women of the
graduating class take the prizes for the Law
Essay; subject, "Equitable Remedies, their
Development and Place in Our Jurisprud-
ence."  Miss Josephine E. Cheney, of Can-
al Winchester, takes first prize; Edith and
Agnes Claypo!e, of Akron, share the second.
The two young men who competed were
left far behind.  Of the essays that took
prizes an eminent lawyer said they would
have been creditable in the records of the Su-
preme Court.—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made lor clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street,
second gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	JULY 15, 1892.


NOTES AND COMMENTS.

	OUR San Francisco article is again postponed
but must really come in next time, or be out of
date entirely, though there is little danger of for-,
getting the ladies or the points of special interest.
There is never room enough for all the editorial
matter in our little paper.
	FRIDAY the first day of July the W. S. A. of
Salt Lake County, celebrated at Calder's Park,
enjoying the repose and quiet of the grove, and
having a sail upon the water. Olsen's band is
in attendance at the pavilion and the music was
indeed delightful.  There was a programme of
suitable delightful. These was a programme of
suitable exercises in the afternoon, of which
dainty refreshments formed a part.  At early even-
ing the electric lights beautified the scene and the
boasts upon the water, the music floating in soft
melody made the effect quite exhilarating and
restful.
	THE terrible scenes that have been enacted of
late through the dissatisfaction an inquietude of
the union men who seem determined to ruin the
country in scarcely endurable from a distance,
what people must suffer who are near enough to
be witnesses of the desperate deeds one scarcely
dare imagine.  Surely the nation is in unrest and
what the finale will be unless a radical change is
effected before things have gone too far, is quite
apparent.  A civil war between capitalists and
laborer would be a catastrophe terrifying indeed
and would bring in its train many other horrors.
That such a crisis may be averted and peace take
the place of contention the people should ar-
dently hope, pray and strive to bring about.
Scenes of terror such as have reigned in Pennsyl-
vania and Idaho recently make one's heart quake
with fear for the consequence if not immediately
brought under control.  When mobs take the
law into their hands there is no safety or protec-
tion.  Surely these are perilous times, and we
know not what a day may bring forth.
	ON the 7th inst. in company with president Z.
D. H. Young we attended three meetings at
Willard. It is a pretty little town and we enjoyed
it very much. Several of the sisters came over
from Brigham City and it was a time to be re-
membered.  Sister Hubbard who presides over
the Relief Society there, is a spiritual-minded
woman, and also practical, for the Society is in
excellent condition.  The sisters own a hall and
granary and real estate as well as when one 
hears the circumstances of the building, which is
two stories high, and well finished, other sisters
certainly may take courage therefrom, The
lower front room is rented to the City Council,
and brings them in means to help in other direc-
tions.  It is astonishing what an amount of
energy, pluck and genuine executive ability the
sisters have displayed in accumulating property 

[Column 2]
in the various branches of the Relief Society.
Sometime soon we hope to sum up our visits to
Payson, Grantsville, Nephi and Brigham City and
mention other facts in regard to the progress of
woman's work temporally.
	TUESDAY, July 12, was the birthday anniversary
of Mrs. Elizabeth Howard, and a large party of
her friends gathered at the beautiful grove on the
Howard farm near the old home at Cotton Wood
to celebrate the occasion, for the lady is a great 
favorite among her acquaintances. The people
from the City went down in carriages, the big
Utah conveyed  thirty-two ladies, and other
carriages swelled the number with the home
folks to about a hundred and fifty all told, the
greetings and congratulations were delightful.
	The lady was surprised and astonished but she
is accustomed to playing the hostess to large
companies as also her daughter, Mrs. Kate
Brockbank, and everything went off pleasantly,
picnic in abundance, and of the daintiest varieties,
and a merrier party couls scarcely be imagined.
	Mrs. Emily H. Woodmansee, who was the fore-
most in getting up the surprise, had written a suit-
able poem which was read, and other exercises
followed, Nellie C. Taylor recited "The Coquette
Punished," and appropriate remarks were made
by Elders Milo Andrus, C. W. Penrose, S. W.
Richards, Bishop Brinton, and several of the
ladies, Mrs. Howard responding.  Mrs. Mac'Far-
lane sang "The Bells of Shandon." The day was
fine and the company fully enjoyed it.—At the
time of departure Elder Lucas Howard closed
the exercises with prayer.


[Column 1]
OLD FOLKS' GALA DAY.

   	WEDNESDAY, June 29, was another gala day for
the old people, and not withstanding the heat,
and the distance to travel, there were more than
ever before, the Committee of arrangements how-
ever had prepared beforehand so that every one
was made quite comfortable, and the railroad
officials were kind and courteous and the whole
affair proved to be a complete success.
	Soon after starting the old people were regaled
with lemonade, cakes and candy and delicacies
and the smiles upon their faces betokened the
happiness they felt in the pleasure anticipated;
then the choir under Prof. Beesley, serenaded the
occupants of each car which made eighteen sere-
nades, Prof. Evan Stephens came on board in
time to join the singers; Elder W. C. Dunbar
with his bagpipes rendered the "Highland March"
in each of the cars; the train arrived at Payson
about 11.30 a.m. quite a number of aged persons
had been taken on at the several stations on the
way.
	The Payson silver band was playing at the
depot on the arrival of the train, and the Payson
Committee assisted in getting the precious freight
safely unloaded; vehicles were in waiting for all
who wished to ride and new-mown hay was
freshly laid all the way for those who preferred to
walk. The Sunday school children in white,lined
the way on both sides carrying banners and wav-
ing flags, and the Benjamin brass band marched
with the procession rendering suitable music. At
the entrance of the grove was a triumphal arch
with the one word WELCOME, wrought in flowers
which gave a pretty effect to the scene that pre-
sented itself farther on. Long tables were spread
under the trees with sufficient space to seat over
a thousand people, and bountifully supplied with
every luxury of the season; the young men and
girls in national colors were ready and anxious to
render any service and waited upon their honored
guests in the most tender and courteous manner.
	Governor Arthur L. Thomas accompanied the
party and his father and mother were among the
veterans over seventy years of age. The Gov-
ernor went through the cars and shook hands

[Column 2]
with all on board the train, President Angus M.
Cannon escorted him introducing him to the peo-
ple. They shook hands with about 1150 people.
	It was estimated that there were on the grounds
at Payson over 2,500 people, and of this number
about 1200 were over seventy years old. The
oldest person present was Mrs. Rachel Dollinger,
a resident of Payson, aged ninety-four—formerly
of Kentucky, the next oldest lady was Mrs. Sarah
Free, ninety-two—also Mrs. Ann Taylor, nearly
ninety-two—the two last, natives of England;
Mrs. Jane Cornwall ninety, from Ireland, Mrs.
Johanna Jensen ninety, from Sweden, of the
gentlemen the oldest were Joseph Hancock,
ninety-two, and Robert Wimmer ninety, both of
Payson. This comprises the list of those over
ninety years of age.
	The exercises were under the direction
of John Quigley of Payson who acted as master
of ceremonies. The Payson band rendered a
fine selection and prayer was offered by the aged
veteran Robert Wimmer, the "Old Folks choir,
sang a chorus and "Hail Columbia," was given
by Payson and Benjamin bands combined.
   Gov. A. L. Thomas addressed the assemblage,
his remarks were in harmony with the occasion
and expensive of the kindliest sentiments follow-
ing is a brief synopsis:
	"It was a grand sight to see so many aged per-
sons present, notwithstanding the heat, and he
deemed it one of the greatest events of his life to
be present among so many old people, where
such careful attention, respect and reverence
were paid to them. In other States gatherings
of old persons were not uncommon,but they could
not equal Utah in their concern for silvery hairs
and bent forms. There were present many of
the original settlers of the valley, persons who by
their toil and labor paved the way to the comfort
and affluence enjoyed by the present generation.
All honor, respect and veneration were due these
aged veterans; when they first beheld these
valleys nothing but sand, sage and alkali met the
eye. This morning meadows, pasture fields, and
growing crops smiled on every side, the result
more or less of the early labors of these old people
whom he was so glad and proud to meet. This 
was the fourth occasion of the kind at which he
had been present, and he hoped by the aid of
Providence he would meet the old folks many
times in the future. It was well that practical
proof could be given in such a manner of the
goodness in the human heart, in thus honoring
old age and paying respectful homage to the
founders of a progressive community. Future
generations will yet call those pioneers blessed."
	The band played "The Star Spangled Banner"
in fine style, and then came an address of wel-
come written expressly for the occasion by J. L.
Townsend, and read clearly and forcibly by Miss
Annie Worsencroft, tastefully dressed and draped
in the stars and stripes of our country.
	WELCOME.

	OLD FOLKS' REUNION AT PAYSON,
		June 29, 1892.
	Ye who wear the silver crown
		Of a life complete with age,
	Ye whom wisdom gives renown
		By her long-life heritage;
	Old folks everywhere held dear.
		Filled with years three score and ten,
	Welcome, yea thrice welcome here,
		Honored guests of honored men.
	Old folks' day—a cherished though,
		Oft recalled in pleasant dreams;
	Teaching charity unsought
		And that life is what it seems;
	Bright as glow the summer flowers
		Or the ripples of the stream,
	Let these fleeting pleasant hours
		Brightly in thy mem'ry gleam.
	Old folks! Ah! what honor this
		To have lived and toiled for years,
	That as pioneers the bliss
		Of the present now appears.


Then all honor to the brow
			Wrinkled with life’s toil and woes—
		Ye have sown the seed and now
			Blooms the desert as the rose.

		To our city, lovely scene,
			Sparkling with the mountain rills,
		To onr homes and gardens green
			Welcome while the day fulfills
		Every joy that hope foretold,
			Of a time both bright and long.
		Ev’ry thought thine hearts may hold
			Of reunion, feast and song.

		Care hath here no part today;
			Joy shall sing her songs above;
		Faith in every heart shall say:
			“God is near and God is love!”
		Old Folks, Fathers, Mothers dear,
			Ye who wear the silver crown,
		Ye are welcome to our cheer,
			Ye are welcome to our town.

	Mr. John Quigley made a brief and appropriate
address of welcome in behalf of the Payson peo-
ple, and the Payson Quartette sang “Don’t forget
the old folks.”
	President Angus M. Cannon graphically de-
scribed the appearance of the valley in 1847, and
the changes that had been wrought by the dili-
gence, industry, thrift and perseverance of the
early settlers, that had made possible the condi-
tions of prosperity and plenty of the present time.
He paid a touching and eloquent tribute to the
pioneers and veterans, many of whom were pres-
ent, to whom those of a later period owed the
blessings enjoyed so freely and prayed that God
would inspire the youth growing up in these
beautiful valleys of the mountains to reverence
age, and especially those who had been public
benefactors.
	The brass band played a choice selection and
Elder George Goddard in behalf of the Old Folks
Committee, thanked the railroad company for
their generosity and called for a vote of thanks
from the assembly which was heartily accorded.
Mayor Lemon of Payson also spoke briefly and
hoped there might be many more such reunions.
A unanimous vote of thanks was given to the
Payson Committee, and Elder W. C. Dunbar
gave some Caledonian selections uyon the High-
land bagpipes.
	The Rev. A. C. Todd, Presbyterian minister of
Payson, made a very feeling address, dwelling
especially npon veneration and respect for the
aged and the virtues of Christianity, the effect
upon human life, etc.
	Mrs. J. A. Linsdale sang “Father’s Growing
Old,” and Counselor David John thought Old
Folks Day an inspirational idea, and that the re-
spect and love with which these veterans were
treated must give great satisfaction.
	The Presbyterian Male Quartette kindly ren-
dered the appropriate song, “I’m Wandering
Down.”
	C. R. Savage of the Old Folks Committee then
distributed the presents to the aged people of
Payson, every one over seventy had a gift of
something. Those from the City had the ride
and the pastime afforded by the trip out, the
dinner and the good time generally.
	Bishop W. B. Preston spoke briefly upon the
courtesy due to the aged and the beauty of such
an example. The Old Folks Choir, who never
tire in trying to please the company, sang at the
close “Welcome here ye aged veterans,” and
Brother J. B. Nobles offered the benediction.
	The large company were then put aboard the
train arriving home in good time, without any
accident or unpleasantness, the Committee and
the choir doing all in their power for the happi-
ness and welfare of their aged friends, brethren
and sisters on the way back.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
A GOOD WOMAN GONE TO REST.

	DIED at the family residence in this City,
Wednesday morning, June 22, 1892, Mrs. Sarah
Elizabeth Groo, after only a brief, but severe ill-

[Column 2]
ness of about thirty hours. The deceased was a
most exemplary and estimable woman in every
respect, of great strength of character which was
plainly manifest throughout her whole life; she
was one to lean upon and trust in. No sacrifice
was too great for her to make to ensure the
happiness of her family, or for the interest of the
Church of which she was ever a faithful member
from the time of receiving the Gospel.
	Mrs. Groo whose maiden name was Gillett, was
born in Sullivan County, state of New York,
March 4, 1827. The Gospel was preached in
that vicinity when she was quite a young girl by
Jedediah M. Grant, when he was only nineteen
years of age. Mrs. Gillett, her mother, was the
first baptism in that locality; her family after-
wards embracing the faith. Mrs. Groo came to
Utah with her father, mother and husband in
1854, and settled in the 9th Ward in this City
where her home has been ever since.
	Like many others she has endured all the hard-
ships incident to those early days, and without a
murmur. She has ever been a fond and tender
mother, and has borne ten children, five of whom
survive her, four sons and one daughter, the
other half have gone on before, and have no
doubt welcomed her ere this, where there will be
no more sorrow or parting.
	She also leaves a husband, Elder I. Groo, and
fifteen grand-children, to whom she was greatly
attached for Sister Groo possessed in the largest
degree the elements and attributes of mother-
hood. She thoroughly enjoyed family life and
home was the place she adorned and in which
she found a special delight. Yet she was called to fill
a prominent public position, to preside over the
Relief Society of the ward in which she lived;
this position she filled with dignity for many
years past, manifesting specially good executive
ability in the administration of affairs which
naturally devolved upon her. She was ever
mindful of the needy, the sick, the sorrowing and
unfortunate and was therefore well qualified for
the place. Her charity was real and without os-
tentation. In her the ward had a true mother
who looked after its best interests, and “in her
tongue was the law of kindness.”
	Her faith in the Gospel never wavered under
any circumstances, and like others who have been
tried she has proven herself loyal to the right.
	She did some work for the dead in the Logan
Temple two years ago, and was making prepara-
tions to do a great deal of Temple work when the
Salt Lake Temple would be completed. She was
one of those noble and grand women, who never
falter in a good cause. Steadfast, industrious
and reliable, descended from the old Puritan
stock, a fair type of the New England women.
	Sister Groo’s whole life was a labor of love,
spent in doing good to those around her, many
are the friends who will miss her kindly deeds,
her comforting words and her pleasant face; but
she has entered into her rest; to the Saint of God
there is no real dark shadow and valley of death,
they but step forth into a diviner light; and they
would not return if they could,
“All dread of the distant future, all fears that op-
	pressed today
Like mists that clear in the sunlight have noise-
	lessly passed away;
Nor call, nor clamor can rouse her from slumbers
	so pure and deep,
For only His voice can reach her who giveth his
	loved ones sleep.
Weep not that her toils are over, weep not that
	her race is run,
God grant we may rest as calmly when our work
	like her’s is done!
Till then we would yield with gladness our
	treasures to Him to keep,
And rejoice in the sweet assurance He giveth his
	loved ones sleep.”


Many are intellectually great, but spiritu-
ally ignorant.


SARAH GRIFFITH RICHARDS.

	On Tuesday, June 7th, 1892, the death of Sister
Sarah G. Richards occurred, at her residence in
the 20th Ward, Salt Lake City.  Her bodily
strength had been gradually failing for a long
time and being in her nintieth year, her death
came not as a surprise to her family and friends.
She had also long expressed herself as looking
forward to the change which she felt was coming
upon her as a happy release from suffering and
worldly anxiety.
	Sister Richards was born in Monmouth, Mon-
mouthshire, England, on the 26th of December
1802. At an early age she manifested an unusual
love for learning, and applied herself with such
diligence and determinination to the gaining of
knowledge in various directions, that she ob-
tained an education of no ordinary degree.  Was
all her life a great reader, and possessed a fund
of information rarely met with.
	Having resolved to dovote her life and energies
to the cause of education, she was still unmarried
at the age of forty, about which time the sound of
the everlasting Gospel reached her ears and pen-
etrated her heart.
	Prospects of worldly wealth and honor seemed
opening up to he;r but she forsook all worldly
interests for the sake of uniting her fortune with
the people whom she knew, by the unerring spirit
of testimony, were the people of God.
	After joining the Church, and emigrating to
America, she was married on the 25th of Decem-
ber, 1843, to Dr. Levi Richards, with whom she
had previously become acquainted while on his
first mission to England.
	Amid the hard and trying persecutions of the
Saints, on the 12th of June, 1845, one child, a son,
was born to them, to whom they gave the name
of Levi Willard.
	Three years later, Dr. Richards was requested
by the presidency of the Church to take a second
mission to England, for five years more. He was
advised to take with him his wife, Sarah. But
as their little one was delicate, President Young
counseled them to send him to the Rocky Moun-
tains with his uncle, President Willard Richards
and his aunt Rhoda, promising them that if they
did so, their boy should live, and grow stronger
and healthier; but saying he could not promise the
same happy results if they attempted to cross the
ocean with him.  The conditions were accepted
by Brother and Sister Richards, keenly as they
felt the trial of such a separation from their only
and tender child; and the promises of the Lord
to them, through His Prophet, were verified.
	Sister Richards had the privilege of receiving
all the ordinances, and of accepting all the prin-
ciples of the Gospel, as far as they have been re-
vealed to the Latter-day Saints, and she was true
to them all.  Possessing an extremely sensitive
nature, the sympathies of Sister Richards were
drawn out towards everything that might suffer.
Little children and dumb animals she always
pitied most, as being unable to tell their pains
and troubles.
	On the occasion of the funeral, which was held
June 9th, in the 20th Ward meeting house, the
speakers were Elder Samuel W. Richards, Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith, President Angus M.
Cannon, and Counselor Joseph E. Taylor.
	Mother we miss your form and face,
		Which bow’d with us each day,
	Before the holy throne of Grace,
		To worship and to pray.
	Some may have been of stronger mold,
		Life’s hardships to endure;
	And some more fleet, and some more bold,
		But none more chaste and pure.
	Some may have mightier works begun,
		Found grander things to do;
	But unto God and Jesus, none
		Have been more nobly true.
		L.L.G.R.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SAD NEWS.
FAGALII, UPOLU SAMOA,
June 16th, 1892.
Dear Sister Wells:
	WITH a heart full of sympathy for our dear
Brother and Sister Hilton, I write to inform you
of the death of their dear little baby “Jennie,”
which occurred on the evening of the 4th inst. at
about six o’clock.
	The little one seemed to stand the voyage over
here very well and was doing nicely until about
two days previous to her demise, when she was
siezed with cholera infantum, going into convul-
sions about an hour and a half before death re-
lieved her of her sufferings.
	Brother Hilton, who was at Salovi, about thirty
miles distant, had been sent for but did not arrive
until the next morning.
	A Mrs. Bell and daughters, of Apia, kindly as-
sisted me in preparing the little body for its final
rest, and to the mother’s great satisfaction her
darling was dressed for its burial very prettily,
the little gold ring you gave her being placed 
upon her finger in loving remembrance of “Aunt
Em.”
	The natives brought many beautiful flowers,
which made the bereaved parents feel that they
had many friends, though very far away from 
home.
	Funeral services were held at the Mission
house on Sunday, June 5, at 4:30 p. m., and words
of sympathy and comfort were spoken by Presi-
dent Browning and Brothers Bassett and Thoma-
son. “Jennie” now rests by the side of Sister
Merrill, near the Mission house at Fagalii, and we
are all praying continuously to our Father that
He will send His spirit in rich abundance to com-
fort the hearts of her saddened parents.
	Every thing that could be, was done for the
little sufferer while she lived and we now feel
that it was God’s will and humbly submit to His
decree.
 
	We are all well here at present and enjoying a
goodly degree of the holy spirit. Should you de-
sire it I will endeavor to write you a short article
occasionally and would be pleased to have the
EXPONENT sent me in return.
	Hoping you are well and that every thing pros-
pers in Zion, I remain,
	Your sister in the Gospel,
	ANNIE D. STEVENS


U. W. P. CLUB.
	THE U. W. P. Club met as per adjournment,
June 30th, 1892, at the EXPONENT Parlor, Called
to order by the President, E. B. Wells. Opening
prayer by Secretary E. R. Shipp. By-laws read
and voted upon by section—with one or two
amendments accepted unanimously. It was also
decided that the by-laws be printed and distribu-
ted to the members of the club. N. V. Davis
suggested that the secretary furnish a list of the
names of the members to facilitate a better man-
agement of dues, etc. Put as a motion and
carried.
	The President said in any question or proposi-
tion presented to the club for consideration she
desired all to feel free in expressing their opin-
ons. A proposition has been recieved from ab-
sent members that we adjourn meetings for the
summer. After some discussion all agreed that
adjournment even for a brief period would mean
a “death blow to the club,” some on the contrary
would prefer to have semi-monthly sessions, but
in consideration of so many other meetings to be
attended and business of varied character to en-
gage our attention, it was deemed expedient to
hold club meetings once a month regularly the
last day of each month according to by-laws.


The President was anxious that a greater interest
be manifested, that members be more punctual in
attendance and always ready to fill their part of
the programme.
	C. C. R. Wells made a motion which was
carried that Agusta Joyce Crocheron be accepted
as an honorary member of the U. W. P. Club.
	Preliminary business being completed the regu-
lar programme was next proceeded with, some
changes being necessarily made in consequence
of the absence of some of the members.
	N. V. Davis read an interesting paper on
the education of teachers.
	Phebe C. Young read an original article on
“Woman’s Work” touching the subject to the
very centre.
	G. L. Brown furnished an original poem en-
titled “Arouse” which had a tendency to “arouse”
her hearers to renewed diligence and determina-
tion to excel in the divine art of communicating
thought through the medinm of the pen.
	M. E. Shipp sang very sweetly the touching
little ballad “”Tis evening brings my heart to
thee.”
	President E. B. Wells then read an article pre-
pared for the anniversary of Susan B. Anthony’s
birthday, entitled, “What some women have
done.” Giving an account of many ancient hero-
nes which we trust will soon be followed by an
account of the equally wonderful work and ac-
complishments of the illustrious women of our
day.
	Gladys Woodmansee entertained the club with
instrumental music.
	R. M. Fox read an original poem entitled
“Pray”
	Refreshments were partaken of during an ani-
mated discussion on poetical license.
	Programme arranged for July meeting as fol-
lows:
	Half hour for business. M. A. Freeze, Des-
criptive article on journey in Mexico. M. E.
Shipp, Women Physicians. L. S. Dickinson, Poem.
G. Woodmansee, Music. E. B. Wells, Trip to
San Francisco. C. C. R. Wells, Essay. L. G.
Richards, Life and character of her husband’s
mother. G. L. Brown, Music.
	Benediction by M. E. Shipp.
	E. R. SHIPP, Secretary.


[column 1]

	﻿IN RURAL ENGLAND.
	XVII.
	THE young naturally seek the confidence
of those to whom they may be attracted, es-
pecially if in doubt or perplexity and young
Walton was not an exception to this rule;
hot-headed and impulsive naturally, and as
a boy indulged in every caprice, he could
not brook real disappointment. While he
was carrying on clandestine interviews at
the adjoining estate and enjoying the ro-
mance of first love’s young dream of bliss,
before the more serious aspect of the affair
became apparent he was thoroughly at ease;
but from the time cousin Jane made such an
important thing of it, he had begun to be un-
comfortable and to wonder what it was best
to do, or whether he ought to try to forget
and leave it all to fate. He was too much
in love for that, he could not remain long
away, and Anna was so demonstrative her-
self ready to renounce everything for his
sake, that sometimes he felt like a veritable
coward.
	On this particular evening Maitland rode
away deeply absorbed in thought, scarcely
caring whither his horse’s head was turned,
one observing him would have thought some
terrible sorrow had overtaken him, and he
really imagined it was so. The horse ac-
customed to going in one direction, needed

[column 2]

little guiding and unconsciously the young
man found himself in the grounds that led
up to the house where his thoughts were at
that very moment, he saw Clair sauntering
along evidently not intent upon anything
except to enjoy the twilight, for the day was
drawing near its close; he drew rein and call-
ed, to his young friend, who hearing the
voice grown familiar during the past few
days, come quickly towards him, and soon
the two young men were deeply absorbed in
confidential conversation; the reader can
judge the subject. Neither of them were
competent judges of the situation, though
both were deeply interested in the one topic
of all others the most fascinating, Lady Anna
Hilliard.
	Clair gave Maitland the best advice pos-
sible under the circumstances which was to
confide his troubles to cousin Jane or the
Doctor or both, adding by way of a recom-
mend, “she is the wisest and clearest-head-
ed woman I have ever seen, she knows how
to manage everything, the tenants tell me,
she could do what no one else was ever able
to with my father, and that “a woman he
would listen to in his sober senses must be
something extraordinary.’’ Maitland was
undecided, he whipped the shrubbery with
his riding whip as if to wake up his ideas,
and finally mounted his horse to ride to-
wards home; when who should come upon
the scene but Doctor Bland returning from
his visit to the poor woman he had kept
so long waiting. The Doctor was in the
best of spirits, and it had its effect upon these
young men; he rallied Walton upon his love-
sick appearance and urged him to come with
him, and spend an hour or two at whist,
and get cheered up before he called upon his
sweetheart.
	“I had no intention of calling to-night, I
am not in the least prepared, I was out of
sorts, and wandered away, little caring
where, but my horse came hither with me
upon his back, I had not the strength to
turn his head in any other direction;” said
Maitland speaking more to himself than to
his friends.
	“And why should you turn him away or
yourself either, do you know that your fath-
er has been here to day, to see Miss Hil-
liard? and he’ll not hinder you from paying
court to the young lady, if you have the
manliness to stand your ground. There’s
nothing like being a hero in the fight, ‘faint
heart never won fair lady,’ and if you would
be successful why you must be brave, wo-
men admire the heroic, not your milk and
water sops, but those who are fond of adven-
ture whether in love or in war; so take cour-
age young man, the game is yours if you
play high; such women don’t like common
place men, who are easily discouraged or
let trifles stand in their way, “the course,
of true love never runs smooth” is an old
saying. Maitland listened more like one
in a dream and finally said, “my mother will
be alarmed if I am long away, to tell you
the truth Doctor I am in no mood for com-
pany, I should spoil your game if I came
with you, tomorrow I may be in better
spirits, and without further explanation, he
bade them good night and hurried towards
Walton Hall. It was late when he arrived
and he went straight to his own apartment,
but his mother who had been watching from
her window came directly to inquire how
he was feeling and whether he had seen An-
na. Mother and son had a long conver-
sation that night, in fact Lady Walton felt it
an imperative duty now to acquaint her boy
with some of the circumstances that had


[column 1]

﻿caused his father to speak so strongly and
so strangely of the Baronet and his affairs.
She told Maitland the truth but not all, and
he was satisfied. “Your father will not in-
terfere further in this matter at present, and
if you wait a reasonable time, I have no
doubt he will consent, he does not believe
you are really in love, if he becomes con-
vinced that your affection for each other is
genuine, he will feel differently, and there
is everything to be hoped for in time.”
	What Lady Walton said was not much in
itself but the confidence she reposed in him
was gratifying to Maitland and he felt sooth-
ed and comforted by the interview; his
mother’s influence was charming and she al-
ways impressed people favorably when she
exerted herself. Miss Conway had not felt
her superiority or fascination for the reason
that she was of a much stronger character,
but with Lady Anna it was different, she
was susceptible to influences and impressions
from others, and stood sadly in need of
strength in those about her; what she might
have been lead to do, had not her cousin
come at an opportune time it is hardly pos-
sible to conceive; fortunate indeed for all
parties that, she arrived at a period in the
young girls life, when a wise counselor was
needed to guide and restrain, her impulsive
nature.
	That night Jane Conway had many reflec-
tions, she had promised to be the wife of the
man who had almost pursued her until she
had yielded to his entreaties one might say,
and yet her own heart had been touched
otherwise she would never have given her-
self into his keeping. What would he ex-
pect now was a thought she could not but
repeat as it were, for it seemed that she could
not much longer be mistress in her uncle’s
house, and a new and entire change in her
mode of life would be necessaiy, what
would this mean for her cousin, how would
it affect the domestic life at the castle, Clair
as well as Anna. Evidently a change must
be brought about sooner or later, and what
would be the easiest and safest method.
Morning came before she had scarcely slept,
and she felt totally unprepared to face the
situation; she almost wished she had per-
sisted in her determination made previously
to remain single and watch over these chil-
dren (for such they were to her) they need-
ed her more than Dr. Bland who had stood
alone so many years; and yet a pang of re-
gret would come when she imagined even
for a moment that she might give him up.
	The days that followed were very much
alike for a few weeks after these stirring
events, the Doctor talked freely of the mar-
riage which he hoped to have consummated
at the earliest possible date consistent with
the circumstances of her uncle’s death, her
term of mourning etc. and Maitland and An-
na were together almost constantly. Lord
Walton,s business had taken him from home
and Lady Walton herself had called frequent-
ly with her carriage and taken Lady Anna to
drive with her in order to become better ac-
quainted and really to see what sort of person
she was likely to be; she often talked to her
of the late Baronet and tried to draw her out
upon family matters finding her almost to-
tally ignorant of these things, she turned
her attention to Miss Conway. She learned
from Clair that his cousin was engaged and
she interrogated him in regard to the changes
this marriage would be likely to bring
about.
	“Who will have charge at the castle
when your cousin marries,she cannot super-
intend two establishments and your sis-

[column 2]

ter is not competent to manage such mat-
ters in fact she has had no experience and is
entirely too young.”
	Clair had never thought of this, Miss
Conway’s marriage seemed in the distance
to him, and he only vaguely comprehended
it now it was explained to him by Lady
Walton; but it set him to thinking, and he
soon made his feelings known to his sister.
He had gone on with a full sense of enjoy-
ment, everything was so pleasant to him
and he was just getting accustomed to the
place and the people, and now his tranquil-
ity was about to be disturbed. “Of course
cousin Jane can advise us what to do,” he
remarked to his sister one day after going
over it in his own mind, “by the bye isn’t
there any relation of the family that could
come here as a sort of housekeeper, or chap-
erone, or be installed in a place of honor, to
keep up the dignity of the place in a way
that would be perfectly proper?” Anna was
as ignorant on the subject as Clair himself
and they could only leave it all to cousin
Jane, and to future developments.
	Time passed rapidly to these young lovers,
for the Doctor and Miss Conway were in
earnest in making preparations, and Mait-
land spent most of his time in the society of
Anna and Clair, for cousin Jane was so oc-
cupied with her wardrobe that she left Anna
more to his watch care, and she found him
perfectly reliable. Clair enjoyed every
moment of his time spent out of doors, he
felt as if dwelling in an enchanted land and
could scarcely realize the fact that he was in
possession of a fine old estate, which enti-
tled him to many honors and privileges, he
never had dreamed of, so limited had been
his previous life.
	Country gentlemen interested in politics
wanted him to run for the county as their
representative, and knowing his ability as a
man and the natural tact he possessed gave
him every encouragement that his election
would be sure if he would allow his name
to be used. He was very unaspiring and
dreaded the publicity thinking his mother’s
marriage would be dragged up to public
scrutiny and he could not endure that one
shadow of suspicion should fall upon her
memory, and he firmly refused to be nomi-
nated. Cousin Jane heartily approved his
course, though it would have been a credit
to have the borough represented by so tal-
ented a young man as Clair Hilliard. He
felt a degree of pride in the thought but the
risk was too great.
	The afternoon sports and pastimes were
in full operation in the country side and many
invitations to shooting parties came in to
young Hilliard for he was fast becoming
popular, and as Maitland offered to go here
and there with him and give him the bene-
fit of his slight knowledge of the chase, he
fiinally decided to go to Greyson Manor
about twenty miles away but in another
county, and one early morning the two
young men rode away together watched by
the eyes of love. It was expected they
would be absent several days and the house
seemed lonely, for Clair was full of life and
his merry whistle and tuneful voice in song
were a perfect delight to all the household
and tenantry.
	The Greysons were charmed with the so-
ciety of these two fine young men, and
every attention was given to their entertain-
ment. The house was pretty well filled
with gentlemen most of them sportsmen
accustomed to the chase, and as they were
thrown together much during the time,
naturally the young men, and especially

[column 3]

Clair whose foreign accent and manners
made him more attractive, were noticed and
aroused some curiosity.
	Say Greyson who is this dashing young
sportsman, with the French accent? He is
not much on the game, unless it be of anoth-
er sort than we are likely to find hereabouts?
What did you say about his pedigree?  Born
on the continent his father an Englishman
you said, but his mother who was she?
These questions were asked by one of Grey-
son’s friends Sir Thomas Lonsdall. “Some
singer poor but beautiful, the most wonder-
ful eyes I’ve been told no one here knows
exactly, who she was but when Sir. Ed-
ward Hilliard died, it had to come out, he
left it all square, could’nt stand the public-
ity himself, but meant to make amends, she
was dead long before; in fact did’nt live
long after the boy was born I think.” “O, is
that it, well I’m glad to hear this story, it
makes things clearer! How many women’s
hearts did the old fellow break? There was
Helen Leigh, now Lady Walton, then this
Italian woman, and his third conquest whom
he honestly married I suppose: and his son
if appearances are not deceptive may break
even more hearts than his father.”
	“The boy is innocent enough not so cour-
ageous as the old Baronet, there was never a
better shot than Sir Edward, and the wom-
en all admired him, nothing tame about him
nor forgiving either, the sturdy old lion-
hearted Briton, from away back.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


PREHISTORIC MAN IN AMERICA.
	It is a fact beyond all dispute that an
ancient people, probably civilized to a high
degree, lived in America long before it was
discovered by Columbus, and who do not
appear to be the American Indians. This
fact one or two modern writers seek to dis-
prove, and in this article I will give both
the old and the new theory concerning pre-
historic man in America.
	We have much of an early history which
antedates the Columbian discovery, for in
late years many men have been engaged in
the collection of its data. It is one of the
grand discoveries of the scientific era of cul-
ture that man has inhabited the globe from
high antiquity that the primal man was of rude
culture, and that his progress from the low-
est to the highest is marked in a broad way,
by stages well defined. Human evolution
is as much a part of of science as botany,
chemistry, electricity or astronomy.
	Were these prehistoric people known to
the ancients? Was America also known to
them? These questions may in time be sat-
isfactorily answered, but at present they are
matters of speculation.
	To the early voyagers and explorers our
land must have seemed lonely, but sooner
or later traces of human occupants were
found in this wilderness. One writer says:
“Every one who explores the mounds of the
Ohio valley, or gazes on the ruins of Yuca-
tan, or looks into the wondrous narrative of
the Spanish conquerors must involuntarily
think: Who were these men and women,
what was their origin, what their mode of
life? Until within a few years there has
seemed no answer. Facts have come in fast-
er and faster, and every new fact has made
the puzzle seem more hopeless, so long as
no one could offer the solution. These vari-
ous prehistoric races, so widely sundered,
threw no light upon each other; they only
deepened each other’s darkness. Indians,
Aztecs, Mayas, Mound Builders seemed to


[column 1]﻿

have no common origin, no visible analogy
of life or habits. The most skillful student
was hardly in advance of the least skillful
as to any real comprehension of the facts;
nor could this possibly be otherwise, so long
as the clew to the labyrinth was not found.
It is only thirty years since it may be said
to have been discovered; only some eight or
ten years since it has been used.”
	The antiquities of Mexico and Central
America reveal religious symbols, devices,
and ideas nearly identical with those found in
the old world. Humboldt traveled exten-
sively in America and observed the remains
of this prehistoric race. He was convinced
that some communication existed between
it and Europe. He thought this was prov-
ed, not only by their religious symbols, but
by the architecture, the hieroglyphics, and
the social customs made known by the ruins.
These he was sure came from the other side
of the ocean.
	The aborigines of America believed in a
good and an evil power, and the immortal-
ty of the soul. According to their tra-
ditions the Almighty Being, who was the
good spirit, created a man and a woman
from a stone, but upon some dislike destroy-
ed them. He then made another couple
from a tree, who were the ancestors of all
the nations of the earth; Another tradition
says in the third generation there came a del-
uge in which not a soul was saved. In or-
der to repeople the earth it was necessary to
change animals into men. These or similar
traditions were found among nearly all the
Indian tribes in both North and South
America, but what originated them is not
known.
	For many years it was thought that the
prehistoric race or races of America came
from Asia across Behring strait, but this
theory is attended by many difficulties.
There are no affinities between the Ameri-
can race and the Chinese, Japanese, or other
Asiatic people in language, customs, arts or
manner of living. The language of the red
men is very different from all Asiatic
tongues. It is a product purely and wholly
American, without any old world affiuities
or analogies whatsoever; It is described as
polysynthetic, often expressing a whole sen-
tence in a word of seventeen syllables.
There are seven hundred and sixty Indian
languages, and this characteristic applies to
them all. Then their physical, and for the
most part their mental traits are all their
own. All signs, then, would seem to favor
the theory that the native Americans are as
indigenous to the country as are its peculiar
fauna and flora; or, at all events, if they did
originally issue from Asia it must have been
in a most remote prehistoric time.
	A second theory for the origin of the pre-
historic race is found in the traditions of
Peru, which tell of a people who came to
that country by sea, and landed on the Pac-
fic coast. In ancient times the Malays
were a great maritime empire and these
people might easily have reached South
America, for dialects of the Malay language
are scattered across the Pacific ocean as far
as Easter island.
	Whoever these people were they built
cities and originated the oldest and finest
monuments of ancient civilisation. The
ruins they left show marvelous workman-
ship in architecture, paintings, and mosaics,
each displaying artistic designs in the high-
est style. Some of the carving in Peru,
Mexico, and Central America is excellent.
Not only are ordinary objects represented,
but the human figure is sculptured in an ex-

[column 2]

pressive and vigorous style, though not al-
ways with much beauty. The incense burn-
ers found in Mexico have good heads and
faces carved upon them.
	Recently a gentlemen who has spent sev-
eral years in Honduras, Central America,
told me he had seen a hand and foot lately
taken from some prehistoric ruins that were
perfect representations. He is a surgeon
and has made the human figure a special
study, and his opinion on such subjects is
valuable. He also said that on top of a cer-
tain mountain, quite difficult to reach, is a
large subterranean chamber which contains
many specimens of this ancient carving.
Among other things is a beautiful hammock
carved in white marble, which shows accur-
ately all the fine meshes and folds. Sitting
in the hammock is a figure representing the
Child Christ. This is cut in black marble,
making a strong contrast to the white mar-
ble of the hammock. A lady asked him
what was the reason of this, and he replied:
“The people were black, so they likened
Christ after themselves, not knowing there
were other people of another color.” The
natives permit many statues and other beau-
tiful objects to be taken away, but the ham-
mock is considered sacred and they will not
allow it to be disturbed.
	Diodorus, a Greek living at the time of
Julius and Augustus Caesar, wrote an im-
portant passage concerning America in his
history of the world from the creation down
to the Roman empire under Julius Caesar.
He traveled extensively, both in Europe
and Asia, gathering material for his writ-
ings. His account is not mythical, and
seems to be given as a historical fact rather
than as a tradition. He says: ‘‘Over
against Africa lies a very great island in the
vast ocean, many days’ sail from Libya,
westward. The soil is very fruitful. It is
diversified with mountains and pleasant
vales, and the towns are adorned with state-
ly buildings." After describing the gardens,
orchards, and fountains he tells how this
pleasant country was discovered. The
Phoenicians built ships and sailed along the
Atlantic coast of Africa. A Phoenician ship
voyaging down the coast was “on a sudden,”
to use his language, driven by a furious
storm far into the main ocean, and after they
had lain under this tempest many days they
at length arrived at this island. The land
reached by these Phoenicians is likely to
have been some part of Central America or
Yucatan, where at that time stood the great
cities now in ruins. There is a similar state-
ment in a work attributed to Aristotle in
which the discovery is ascribed to the Cartha-
genians.
	Theopompus also speaks of the existence
of a continent beyond the Atlantic which was
larger than Asia, Europe, and Libya togeth-
er. A race of men called Meropes dwelt
there and had extensive cities.
	Again, it is a historical fact that the Nor-
semen sailing from Iceland not only discov-
ered America, in the tenth century, but also
established colonies on the coast of New
England, and that they preserved commun-
cation with these colonies for two centuries.
However, the Irish preceded the Norsemen
both in Iceland and America. There are
many legends and traditions concerning the
passage of the Irish into America, and their
habitual communication with it many cen-
turies before the time of Columbus. Ireland,
itself, was colonized by the Phoenicians, or
by people of that race. An Irish saint,
named Vigile, who lived in the eighth cen-
tury, was accused of certain things and went

[column 3]

to Rome to justify himself before Pope
Zachary. Among other things he proved
to the pope that the Irish had been accus-
tomed to communicate with a transatlantic
world. This fact is preserved in the records
of the Vatican.
			[To be continued.]


16			WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 63 E.
FIRST SOUTH STREET,
Three doors west of Theatre.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House
R.K. THOMAS

[Logo of Rio Grane Western Railway]
THE
Standard Gauge
RAILWAYI!
THROUGH THE
ROCKY MOUNTAINS!
Choice of Three Distinct Routes,
AND THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT RAILROAD SCENERY
IN THE WORLD.
Two Fast Express Trains Daily
EACH WAY BETWEEN
OGDEN, SALT LAKE AND DENVER.
ELEGANT RECLINING CHAIR CARS!
Free of Charge.
Direct Connections made in Union Depots.
THE MOST THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED RAILWAY
IN THE WEST.
D.O. DODGE, A.E. WELBY, J. H. BENNETT,
Genl. Mgr. Supt. G.F. & P.A.

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS CAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to. 
DAVD JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 21. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST I, 1892.  No. 3.


CONTENTS.
	Wonderful—Mary E. T. Griffeth. In Rural
England—A Story. Notes and News. R.S.
Report. Ladies Semi-Monthly Meetings. Ex-
tract From Letter—Helena Madsen. Food For
Thought—Zion's Convert. Prehistoric Man in
America. Information Wanted.
	EDITORIAL:—Pioneer Day. An Old-Fashioned
Tea Party. An Interesting Journey—Elizabeth
Howard. A Lovely Woman Passed Away—
Minna V. Lewis. In Memoriam—Hattie A.
Woolley.
	POETRY:—The Ruling Passion—Warner Snoad.
The Pioneers—Ellen Jakeman. The Old Piano—
L. M. Hewlings.


THE RULING PASSION.
				———
SOME sing the praises of Love's young dream,
When things which are and the things which
	seem,
Glide as one down youth's golden stream,
	And the song birds wake us early;
When one's heart is fresh with the morning  dew,
When hopes are many and cares are few,
When Life is flushed with a rosy hue,
	And one's hair is crisp and curly.

Some say 'tis sweetest when love comes late,
When the stings of grief and the thorns of fate,
The weary battle with grief and hate,
	Make Life's great good the stronger,
The Iudian Summer in regal dyes
Close to the heart of the sunset skies,
The last glad smiles of the year we prize,
	And wish each moment longer.

But ah! there only remains the truth,
That Love is Love—be it age or youth;
That Love is Love and in every sooth
	Of every soul he's master.
For Love is Love come he soon or late,
And Love alone is the Lord of fate,
Deride him—chide him—the god is great
	And he heeds nor Priest nor Pastor.
						WARNER SNOAD.
	The Woman's Tribune.


[Column 1]
			THE PIONEERS.
A TRACKLESS wilderness, a dreary waste
	Of dead gray valleys, and dark arid peaks;
A voiceless solitude, whose inland sea
	Moves to no tides, but level lying, speaks
Decay accomplished; passionless despair;
Sightless, emotionless, deep silence everywhere. 

Deep silence; save for howl of famished wolf,
	That came, red-eyed to slake his burning thirst,
Where but a thread of water silent slipt
	Between high banks that bent like things ac-
curst
Doomed to look ever; though it never sips,
Dying of thirst, deep dust upon the lips.

No bright bird's wing stirs all the pulseless air;
	No cloud of promise dots the brazen sky;
No flowers lift their faces from the earth;
	The sunbeams fall upon the ground to die.
All is as void, and of as little worth,
As when God's voice from chaos called the earth.

But hark! A human sound the silence breaks,
	Down through a mountain pass they fainting 
came

[Column 2]
A second Israel to a "promised land;"
	And their great Moses-Brigham Young his
name-
Paused in this desert; with uplifted hand
Invoked God's blessing on the faithful band.

They came-from Nauvoo's battered walls they
		came,
	Out-cast, despoiled, their friend and prophet
		slain,
Paused in this desert-but God's answer came
	To that petition in bright showers of rain,
The promised fruitage of another year,
	Gleamed like a rainbow in each crystal tear.

Truth, planted freedom's ensign on the peaks;
	Faith, struck the plow deep in the desert's dust
Love, nerved the arm to labor and be strong.
	God's promises, kept bright their holy trust;
Peace in their souls made patience sweet and
	strong,
Good will to man, moved all their hearts to song.

Because for His sake, they had borne reproach,
	Nature's rich bosom thrilling over flowed;
Milk, honey, wine, replaced the desert's waste,
They reaped abundance where they little sowed.
Birds sang in rapture; where the gaunt wolf
	stood-
Was a fair city and a pleasant wood.

The rock-ribbed mountains yielded up their
		stores
	Of salt and silver, copper, gold and coal,
And craftsmen came from every land and clime;
	Fair wisdom purely filled her golden bowl;
Bright water gushed from earth in living rills,
Their cattle sleek, fed on a thousand hills.

Some of those pioneers with us remain
	Made strong by truth-for truth and life are
one. 
They see fair Temples lift their sacred walls,
	The pure unselfish work of love begun.
And earth has everything to give and lend,
To those who made the God of Hosts their
		friend.

Like her who travailed in the wilderness,
	Great were the issues born of toil and pain;
As those sad Moors, who fair Grenada left
	They hold the keys to their beloved Spain.
And back again, led by the hand of God
Their children's feet shall press Missouri's sod.
					ELLEN JAKEMAN.


[Column 1]
		﻿WONDERLAND.
	Having business at Soda we decided to
make a pleasnre trip out of it; I have heard
of the wonders of Soda Springs for years
and thought I knew all about them, but one
must see to fully comprehend how truly
wonderful they are.
	Leaving Cache Valley behind we climbed
the hills to Mink Creek; Mink Creek is a
succession of farms in every habitable spot
along the banks of the creek, it is a beauti-
ful country to one that is fond of the pictur-
esque, for at every bend of the road we
come unexpectedly—(for the last seemed to 
be all alone amid the hills), upon another
home-stead past which sparkles, ripples and
roars the beautiful, clear, cold stream. Be-
fore turning to go up Strawberry creek, a

[Column 2]
small stream coming from a canyon of that
name, we came upon quite a cluster of 
houses, two stores and a rock meeting house
near completion.
	Passing another succession of farms we 
climb the divide and come upon the top of
a mountain, (the natives call it a hill) over
looking Gentile Valley; it is a splendid 
view, homes in the nooks and on the hill
sides, with the wide sluggish river winding
its way through and passing out between
the mountains.
	The north end of Gentile Valley is a
plateau or table land as yet uninhabited; it
was here we saw a great curosity, known as
the Ice Cave. To all appearances the
country is level, but turning some distance
from the main road, to the right, we came
upon a large basin, with walls of black
volcanic rock, we descended this, cross to
an opening on the east side, then descended
still farther and find ourselves in a huge
tunnel with arched roof and a smooth floor
covered with ice; as other tourists had
broken off some of the ice we took some out
into the daylight and found it to be pure
genuine ice, we went on until it seemed as
though we could see the end, but a young
man traveling with us, a resident of Gentile
Valley, told us there was an opening
through which the daring could pass, that
came out into a small ravine.
	After coming out of the cave we drove to
the opening, distant about half a mile,
found that opposite this opening is another
going into the hill. We have since been
told that it opens into a succession of caves
the end of which has not been explored yet.
Our theory, but it may not be correct, is 
that the snow drifts into the basin and melt-
ing runs into the cave, and the depth of the
cave and cold air that passes through keeps
it in that condition, as the walls appear to
be perfectly dry, we forgot to enquire
whether there was ice in the further cave or
not. Farther on we came to a fissure from
two to six feet wide extending quite a dis-
tance; either, our timidity or eye sight pre-
vented us from seeing the bottom, we saw
some bones on a ledge some distance down.
	After crossing the river we go in an
easterly direction, passing Soda Point, 
Soda Point is the point or end of a mountain
whose top, I should judge, is many miles
above the ocean. It descends almost per-
pendicular to the river, it is an immense
pile of rock, but in every crevice is a pine
tree. It is grand in appearance. The op-
posite side is perpendicular and also consists
of rock, in fact the country for miles is a 
bed of black porous looking rock.
	The railroad track makes a curve here
after passing through Soda turning north,
it must be a bleak windy locality for there
is a long stretch of snow sheds and fences
to break the drifts. After passing the point
the soil is very barren there being but little
vegetation.
	We had had a description of the steam
boat spring yet it was a surprise, instead of
issuing from a cliff, as we supposed, it
hisses and puffs forth from a flat red rock on
the brink of the river whose banks here are
low. 
	Soda and vicinity is a very desolate look-


ing place, the soil consisting of a reddish,
yellow clay. There are some fine buildings,
mostly hotels, but there seems to be no
thrift or order, perhaps being a railway
station gave it that appearance. In the
centre is a large mound on the top of which
is a warm sulphur spring and a few rods
from its base is a soda spring.
	Five miles north of Soda is a rich grazing
country, literally covered with springs. In
walking over a meadow we saw springs of
almost every color, red, black, green, yellow
etc., within a few feet of each other; these
springs boil up in the grass each in a
separate basin, but they do not over-flow;
in the same meadow springs forth blubber-
ing, sparkling soda water and beautiful
fresh water which unite forming Soda Creek
a beautiful clear stream.
	I know of no word that could describe
my feelings as I walked over the spongy
ground and viewed the wonders, except
awe; a reverence and a fear for the mighty
power that could hold in check so many
different elements.
			MARY E. T. GRIFFETH.
FAIRVIEW, IDAHO, July, 25th.


18			WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		﻿IN RURAL ENGLAND.
				XVIII.
	WHILE Clair and Maitland were away
during the hunting season Jane and Anna
were busy plying the needle, Jane with
her own wardrobe and Anna with fine em-
broidery and lace; her tastes were refined in
every particular and those were the days of
fine fancy needle-work. The French ladies
or governesses, for they were really ladies in
education and cultivation had taught her
the art of the needle to perfection.
	Every evening Dr. Bland came to sit
awhile when he was not too busy, and he
was most welcome for the old place was
lonely without Clair. The Doctor’s house
was being remodeled and Miss Conway had
to be consulted in the matter, and this was
a common ground of conversation. The
season was delightful, and the young ladies
took great pleasure in walking and driving
through the beautiful fields; the foliage
made charming pictures of which they
never tired, and whether in early morning or
sunset time, the trees and shrubbery wore
every shade of artistic coloring, and often
the girls remarked to each other as they
gazed and admired, “Will we ever be as
quietly happy again as we are now in this
beautiful Autumn weather?” and indeed so
many scenes and changes had come and gone
in quick succession, that this season of rest
was like a forboding. It filled them with
presentiments lest evil was lurking near.
Neither of them knew exactly what would
be done with the old home-ruin in fact it
had never really been a home in Sir Ed-
ward’s time, it was sort of a refuge, Jane
had made it more homelike than before, and
it is little wonder if these young women, did
wonder what the future held in store.
	Time went on slowly but the grey No-
vember soon set in and the gloom deepened
outside, and the raw and chill winds tossed
the dry leaves hither and thither, and finally
the rainy and wet season set in and there
were no more walks or rides, and the girls
thought Clair and Maitland would soon
come now for the hunting must be over;
but when Dr. Bland declared it was famous
hunting weather, Anna felt inclined to re-
bel at being left so long without an escort
or some one to help pass the time away: the

[Column 2]
Dr. inquired what she would do without
her cousin, at which she forgot herself
momentarily and rated him soundly for
mentioning snch a thing. “And why not?”
said he, “we are soon to be married, and
you must accept the situation however
lonely you may feel, I am glad however
that you have so much spirit, to protest, it
really makes me think you have some of
your father’s characteristics after all, and it
will be the better for you to have a will of
your own, it is quite becoming in a woman
to know her own mind, and I am not so
anxious as to your future seeing that you
can take your own part.
	“Miss Conway was a little disconcerted
she felt it was but an ebullition of emotional
feeling and not at all in keeping with her
cousin’s true character, she knew that An-
na needed a discreet and prudent guide and
Clair with Italian blood in his veins was
not the person to look to; but she comforted
herself with the thought that for the present
she would be near to give advice; she dis-
trusted Lady Walton and had less confidence
in her husband, she had an intuitive feeling
of his insincerity when he came to talk with
her at the Castle, she knew from her uncle
the deception he had practiced in that to
him bitter past, that blighted his whole life,
as it were, and she was glad to remember
she had been downright plain
with him about Anna and Maitland; he
could not be mistaken in her candor, what-
ever might come She pitied Lady Walton’s
weakness and really woudered that Mait-
land possessed as much honor and manli-
ness as he had shown, considering his
parents; she felt he was at least constant
and that was someth1ng.
	After Doctor Bland left the house Jane
had a long talk with her cousin speaking
very plainly to her of her future and assur-
ing her that she would watch over her,
even though she was not in the same house-
hold. Anna spoke of some one to preside
but her cousin asked her not to think of it
at present, for said she “the unexpected
might happen as when I came:” and Anna
added “Or as when Clair came who would
have suspected such a change as that in the
order of events.”
	It was good for Clair Hilliard with his
inexperience to be thrown into the society
of men of the world, like those he met at
the Greyson’s for he would be expected to
take part in the affairs of the County even
if he would not accept a nomination for
office. Men who have an understanding of
general matters can always be useful in the
community where they reside, and help in
the common interests of the people. Clair
had no conception of such things but he
would be called upon to do his share in any
event which might transpire locally, and
therefore all he could learn by personal
contact with wide-awake men would be
beneficial. Maitland needed this too almost
as mnch, he had been carefully trained at
home, but it was in “polite society” as an
escort for his mother to balls and parties,
more than in any public duties: Hearing
men talk and reason together and discuss
governmental questions was quite a school
for these young men, not  that it was all
sound doctrine or correct principles, but it
gave them an insight into a life that was
fresh and new at least to them. They had
more of the theoretical in their natures, and
yet were totally unlike. Time passed
pleasantly and they parted from their new-
made friends with regret thongh both were
anxious to return home; and the young

[Column 3]
ladies were desirous of having their company
once again.
	The first subject under discussion after
Clair’s return home was whether they
should spend the winter in the couutry or
go up to London—Burke had sent word
that Clair would be needed in London to
transact some business and the Doctor nat-
urally urged the country on his own ac-
count, but ostensibly in behalf of the tenan-
try who had never had real Christmas
festivities since Sir Edward had become so
much of a recluse. Anna was really the one
whose claim seemed strongest, for she had
never spent a season in London and favored
going there, she had professed great inter-
est in charitable work among the tenants
when Maitland made his stolen visits, but
it was only a pretext as her cousin Jane
learned to her full satisfaction as well as
disappointment afterwards.
	So it was decided that London should be
the choice for the winter, and Christmas ar-
rangements should be left to the housekeep-
er and others who could assist her in the
distribution, the good Dr. Bland who knew
every one of them to superintend the whole.
	After this was settled Anna was gayer
and busier planning and packing, and
practising for she had almost discarded her
governesses injunctions as to etiquette,
and her love-affairs had made her forgetful
of music and drawing.
	All these she tried to bring back to her
remembrance and Clair was very helpful,
he knew when she was in time and his danc-
ing was perfection. Jane Conway gave no
attention to these trivial matters but busied
herself with things of greater importance.
	The Walton’s were going up to London,
and she knew how much that implied; she
felt that her influence would be less with
Anna, and even with Clair, when thrown
into the society of these fashionable people.
	The old housekeeper was vexed at
having so many orders given her, she felt
very consequential with these young people.
	The old housekeeper was vexed at
having so many orders given her, she felt
very consequential with these young people.
Clair made himself as agreeable as possible,
but she hardly reconciled herself even to his
assuming any authority believing his moth-
er to have been of the gipsy race, and she
would mutter away behind his back about
“the goings on of fine folks, that were no
better than they should be.”
	She wondered too why she was not left
in the will—after serving there “these many
a year” as she expressed it and “no dout”
she would add “this young foreigner will
soon run through all there is, and we’ll go
on to the parish, or be sent to the workus.”
	Miss Conway hearing some of these
things repeated by the servants, felt it her
duty to remonstrate with Mrs. Burke, if she
were to be left in charge at such an impor-
tant time as the Christmas holidays.
	Miss Conway made no allusion to what
she had heard repeated by the servants but
gave some direct orders about the manage-
ment during the winter, when the house-
keeper showed considerable obstinacy and
was so impertinent that she was obliged to
remind her of her position and that her or-
ders were not to be set aside—“and who’ll
ye complain too Ma’am if I refuse to obey
your orders, Lady Anna ’ll never interfere
with me and the solicitor as lives in Lon-
don and has charge is my cousin, least ways
he was poor dear William’s cousin who’s
dead and gone, and he’ll see me righted
ma’am I’m not goin to he humbugged by
young missesses as knows naught, after be-
ing in this house nigh on to twenty years.”


[Column 1]

and with this long speech she flaunted out
of the room in high dudgeon.
	Jane Conway stood still a moment to
think what was best to do, she had heard
before that the housekeeper had a violent
temper when thwarted, but it had never oc-
curred to her that she could threaten, nor
had she even thought of any relationship
between Mrs. Burke the housekeeper and
Mr. Burke her uncle's solicitor. Discretion
is the better part of valor—thought the
young woman, and I'll wait until she has had
time to think better of it, and see her again
tomorrow. Jane did not mention to her
cousins the little incident in the store-room
where she had encountered the housekeeper;
but circumstances shaped themselves, for be-
fore retiring who should be announced but
Burke himself direct from London. The
housekeeper made her appearance all smiles
and furbelows to wait upon him, and Miss
Conway sent a message into the supper room
to say she would like to speak with him as
soon as 'twas convenient for him to see her
in the drawing-room.
	When the boy who brought the message
left the room Mrs. Burke in an undertone
addressing her husband's cousin, "I know
what Miss Conway wants with you, its to
tell you I've refused to obey her orders,
coming interfering with me after I've been
mistress here all these years, and never took
no orders from anybody but Sir Edward
himself."
	"And do you say you refused to obey
Miss Conway? why she's in charge here!
its only against yourself, do you want to be
dismissed from this place? I shan't help you
if you get notice to go—its for your interest
to keep in with the new bosses, there's not
a shilling left in the will for any of you;
but I've no doubt you've saved up a pretty
penny while you've been in service, couldn't
be otherwise, what use have you got for
money with neither chick nor child? No!
Mrs. Burke you'd better keep the place and
be respectful."
	Mrs. Burke was very much crestfallen
after this conversation, she had counted up-
on this relative of her husband's in case of
any emergency arising, and he had not
shown as much feeling for her as one
might expect from a stranger, but she made
up her mind that she wouldn't leave him a
penny if she should die tomorrow. This
was her verdict.
	Burke the solicitor went to the drawing-
room prepared to do battle in her defence, if
necessary however for he too thought the
Baronet might have remembered his faith-
fnl servants in his will.
	He was totally disarmed when Miss Con-
way appeared, and was ready to agree with
her in everything. In fact she was so cool
and dignified he could not but admire her
manner of dealing with the difficulty. She
said very little but he understood how em-
barrassing her position was, and that she
was really the only one in the house who
could exercise any authority in a way to
command respect, and he could see plainly
that if Mrs. Burke revolted the whole re-
tinue of servants (save perhaps one or two)
would join with her, and the household
turned topsy-turvy and the going to London
would be stopped, and out of that he figured
on turning this London season to his own
account.
	The morning brought the housekeeper
early to Miss Conway's room, "to talk
things over and know what was expected"
she said, but Jane could easily see she was
very much upset and anxious to conciliate.

[Column 2]

The interview was in every way satisfactory,
and Jane really felt much more at ease than
if the cloud that hung over the domestic
department had not burst.
	Two or three days sufficed to settle Mr.
Burke's business, and off he set to see after
the final arrangements for the house in town.
Sir Edward had never kept a house in Lon-
don always taking handsome apartments
suited to a single gentleman who only
wanted to mingle with his own "set."
	Lady Anna was all excitement and her
cousin feared nervous prostration but the
Doctor was watchful and gave her strict
orders and also warned Maitland in regard
to the matter, telling him that she was so
frail he would need to avoid everything
calculated to trouble or to weary her.
Young men don't comprehend such mat-
ters very well, and young Walton was very
ignorant about girls having never had any
sisters and his ideas about women were all
formed by his own mother, whose natnral
constitution was excellent.
	Lady Anna was almost ill by the time
they were ready to go and her cousin felt
reluctant about leaving home, remember-
ing the last journey and the terrible fatality,
but the Doctor consented to travel with his
ward and see her safe to her journey's end,
and that reconciled Miss Conway to leaving
home. The young girl improved as they
went by easy stages, the cold bracing air
gave her an appetite and when they arrived
she looked more like herself and Dr. Bland
felt no reluctance in leaving her in her
cousin's care.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.		19


[Column 1]

THE OLD PIANO.

DEAR honored old Piano,
	Standing idle, silent, still,
Where are the skilled performers,
	That oft made thy chords to thrill?
Where are the fairy fingers,
	That flew over the ivory keys,
Where are the sweet-voiced minstrels,
	And the tuneful melodies?
Where are the groups that gather'd
	And the happy household throngs;
Strains of heavenly music,
	And the sweet inspiring songs?
Where are my lovely daughters,
	Where my handsome growing boys,
Books, and instruments idle;
	O, where the bustle and noise?
I look thro' doors and windows,
	Afar up and down the street,
Listen for merry voices,
	And the tramp of coming feet,
Shading my eyes from sun rays,
	As erst in days of old,
Wonder if they are straying
	Affar on the hills of gold?
I call in vain for answer,—
	I'm weary waiting alone;
Why so long do they tarry,
	Ah, will they never return?
Oft in moments of musing,
	Floating like incense along,
Come the sweet airs of Beethoven,
	And grand old masters of song.
Two little forms oft I fancy,
	Conning o'er their lesson sheet,
And one, two, three, four counting;
	Again, and again repeat.
I mark the dimpled fingers,
	And rich braids of shining hair,
Plaited, tied with blue ribbon,
	With mother's caressing care.
Again in fairest of fabrics,
	Wrought out in daintiest looms,

[Column 2]

Flowers, loving hands gather'd
	Distilling richest perfumes.
Standing before the altar,
	Looking angelic, divine!—
Admiring crowds there follow,
	Music and service sublime.
The church filled, and o'erflowing,—
	Mark the sacred rites performed,
Hear from the organ pealing,
	Strains of divinest song,
The marriage robes, and vestments,
	And scenes most superbly fair,
Pass in array before me,
	With the sacredness of prayer.

Husband sons all absent—
	The martial music has ceased,
And red fields of the mangled,
	Are crowned with the sheaves of peace,
Bringing forth fruits of freedom;
	And reaping from martyr'd slain,
Nourished with blood of heroes,
	Like early and latter rain.
Into God's-Acre peaceful,
	Have been borne my precious dead,— 
Moving from the church altar
	I’ve followed with mournful tread.

Dear honored old Piano!
	Treasured mem'ries thou dost hold,
Ever to mind recalling,
	Vanished scenes from days of old.
Thro' budding, bloom, and fruitage,
While I here my vigils keep,
	Far into chill of winter;
And its length'ning shadows deep.
			L. M. HEWLINGS.
	ATCHISON, KAN.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	MRS. ZERELDA G. WALLACE, “the
mother of Ben Hur,” has lately become a
great grandmother.
	THE Women’s Educational and Indus-
trial Society; Fall River, Mass., has been
incorporated. Susan H. Wixon is president,
and Mary E. Hyde, treasurer.
	DR. AMELIA B. EDWARDS left almost the
whole of her property to found a profes-
sorship of Egyptology, under certain con-
ditions, at University College, London. It
is believed that the value of the chair will
amount to about $2,000 a year.
	MISS E. U. YATES, of Maine, has in-
vented a new word, “Mrdame” (Mr. and
lady), pronounced Merdam. She says: “In
the new order of things, there is a demand
for a title to express the partnership of
men and women in business. This word
can be applied when the partners are hus-
band and wife, brother and sister, or broth-
er and somebody else’s sister, viz: Mrdame
Smith and Jones.’’ This is ingenious, and
may be found to meet a “long-felt want.”
	MISS FRANCES HARDCASTLE, of Girton
College, Eng., who has been placed in the
second class, division three, of Part II. of
the Mathematical Tripos, is a grand-daugh-
ter of Sir John Herschel. She entered Gir-
ton in 1888, and was a Senior Optime in
Part I. of the tripos last year. Although
Miss Hardcastle has not obtained a first,
she has done better in Part II. than any
woman who has hltherto taken it except
Miss Fawcett. The mathematics in that
part are considered so difficult that few ex-
cept high Wranglers ever attempt it. Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50 per month, $300. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street,
second gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	AUGUST 1, 1892.


[Column1]

PIONEER DAY.

	THE anniversary of the 24th of July, 1847, will
always be a day of days to the Pilgrims who mi-
grated hither during that eventful year and those
who followed them later, also to their children
and children's children down to the latest genera-
tion. For the sake of the children it seems im-
portant to celebrate in some appropriate way,
either publicly or in families by gathering to-
gether, this day; that the brave men and women
who crossed the trackless plains and marked out
a path for their friends to follow may be held in
sacred remembrance, also because they raised
the standard of liberty on the mountain's top, the
flag of our country, the stars and stripes dear to
every American heart, and it floated to the breeze
for the first time in the great American desert
from the highest peak adjacent and because of
this, it was named Ensign Peak. This fact should
be well established in the minds of the rising
generation, let them hear it from the lips of those
who are living witnesses, for the pioneers are fast
passing away.
	Of the three pioneer women not even one re-
mains, but their memory is dear to the hearts of
their sisters, women who know how loyal and
true they were and how fearless in the cause of
right. And what of the hundreds who followed
after? many little graves as well as larger ones
marked the passage over the great mountains
and across the desert plains. The mothers who
laid their little babes down by the wayside, know-
ing that they could not mark the spot only tem-
porarily, and knowing too that wolves and beasts
of prey ranged over the wild and desolate country.
What sublime faith these Pilgrim mothers had,
none know save those who shared with them the
toils and burdens of those wearisome days. These
things and a thousand other memories arise when
one reflects upon the early dangers and hard-
ships encountered by those, who left their all the
world held dear, to seek out a refuge, a resting
place where they might be free in the exercise of
their religion.
	The privations of those early days are too
severe to be dwelt upon today, and the blessing
and prosperity that has attended this people in
the valleys of the mountains is something almost
beyond belief to those who know the small be-
ginnings. The generation now growing up will
never be able to comprehend the struggles and
difficulties of those times in past history, unless
they should go into a new country as destitute as
this people came hither.
	There is nothing in this world but religious
faith engrafted in the soul, that could sustain and
bind together a band of people, as the Latter-day
Saints were sustained and united under the most
trying and adverse circumstances. Let those who
know not such eternal principles scoff and deride

[Column 2]

if they choose, but they who have passed
through these ordeals know that only the most
implicit trust in the Divine source of all good,
could ever have helped them to endure the trials
and perils incident to the journeyings and settle-
ment of these mountain vales. No wonder they
are dear and sacred, for here this people have
lived and suffered and labored and toiled, and
fasted and prayed; sometimes in adversity with
starvation staring them in the face, but through
the blessing of God relief has come and the
heavens have smiled again, and the devastating
insects have been swept away. Many blessings
have been vouchsafed the Saints, and the early
and the latter rain, though the old mountaineers
declared that nothing could be raised here be-
cause there was no rain. Each year almost the
rain has increased and the irrigation has been
lessened, the desert does verily blossom as the
rose, and many miracles have been wrought in
behalf of the Saints if they would but understand.
	In contemplating even the small work done by
women in an organized capacity for that is al-
most the only way to estimate it, we repeat in re-
flecting even upon this small proportion of the
great whole, one cannot but wonder how so
much means has been accumulated,and after dis-
tributing to those in need, and to other worthy
purposes how much is still held in trust for future
use. The women of Utah have performed their
part nobly in all the various places, and some of
them have been very trying ones, and have never
shrunk from fulfilling their part pf the work of
building up the country from the days the pio-
neers landed here down to the present time.
	The experience has enriched them in wisdom,
such as is needed to do battle in times of great
struggles, and this experience, much of it, relates
to the inner life, and the hearts have been edu-
cated more perhaps than the brain, but in this
day of great learning and knowledge of all arts
and sciences the heart is too often left unculti-
vated. Yes, women here have borne their share of
the burdens that attended the opening up of a
new and barren country, and meantime by their
comforting and tender words, by their more
simple and childlike faith have stimulated their
husbands,brothers and sons in many a dark hour.
	Ye who come today and see the fruits of the
industry, thrift and diligence of these gray-haired
pioneers, do not fail to do them the reverence
they deserve,and do not forget that through it all
the women stood by them sharing every hard-
ship with the courage and fortitude of the Pilgrim
mothers of New England, for except for the
heroic trust in God that animated them, they
knew no more where their feet were to be
planted than did those who crossed the mighty
ocean and landed on Plymouth Rock.
	We know whereof we speak when we make
this assertion and hundreds can testify to this
fact. The time may come, and it is devoutly to be
hoped for, when these things will be considered
differently to what they are today, and the part
women have taken in opening up the desert lands
will be fully recognized.
	I know it may be said, other lands have been
colonized and the wilderness cleared and so forth,
but that was different, in this one respect if no
other, that they went prepared and thoroughly
equipped; whereas this people were not given
time to make the necessary preparations for the
journey from Nauvoo, and so scanty was the food
that hundreds died the first year after leaving the
borders of civilization. It was under the most
trying circumstances that they traveled West-
ward, and misrepresentation and falsehood
seemed to follow them even in their wanderings.
	The greatest consolation is only this, "Blessed
are ye when men shall revile you, and persecute
you and shall say all manner of evil against you
falsely, for my name's sake, for so persecuted they
the prophets which were before you."


AN OLD FASHIONED TEA PARTY.

	ON Thursday, July 28th, Mrs. Ellen C. Clawson
entertained, in her handsome, new residence on
South Temple Street, about a dozen of her inti-
mate friends; we were very fortunate in being
one of the number. The lady is known to be a 
charming hostess, and her daughters are also
gifted in this respect. The tea was a perfect suc-
cess, the centre of the table was decorated with
choice flowers in an elegant large China basin,
and pretty bouquets tastefully made were laid for 
each guest. Exquisite old China and silver gave
the table an artistic look with the snowy linen,
and the conversation was a very pleasant part of
the entertainment for some of those present had
known Mrs. Clawson when only a child of thir-
teen, at the time of the exodus from Nauvoo, her 
mother had died of the hardships incident to
that dreadful journey in mid winter; and she was
left the little child-mother with the care of four or
five younger children.
	Dr. Barney who was present had written, "the
old-fashioned tea of fifty years ago," recalling
memories of her childish days, when her mother
gave an old-fashioned tea--which she read while
the guests were seated, and this very naturally
called up vivid memories of the past, and con-
trasting the present with the days gone by, many
reminiscences were brought to mind. Dr. Barney
had been an intimate friend and playmate of Mrs.
Clawson in fact they had waded the brooks bare
foot as children will, and "have been friends to
gether, in sunshine and in shade;" both Mrs.
Clawson and Dr. Barney are active workers in
the organizations of women, and are interested in
all the vital topics of the day. Mrs. Clawson has
been the mother of a very large family, sons and 
daughters, and grand-children in abundance, but
she only seems now in the prime of her life; of a 
truth "her lines have fallen in pleasant places."


ELDER C. W. PENROSE, Mrs. Zina D. H. Young,
Mrs. E. B. Wells and Mrs. Lizzie Penrose, went
to American Fork, July 29, by special invitation
of Mrs. Hannah Lapish, to attend a Grand Rally
of the W. S. A. of that place; a drive to Utah
Lake, music, speeches, songs, recitations, a
banquet in the musical Emporium etc., were the
order of the day of which we will give a fuller ac-
count hereafter.


AN INTERESTING JOURNEY.

[CONCLUDED.]
	ON the Monday after we commenced our home-
ward journey, our company was enlarged by
several brethren and sisters going to Conference
at Moab, Mrs. Freeze and I got into Brother Wm.
Halls wagon with him and his interesting and in-
telligent daughter Hannah. We traveled a beau-
tiful and excellent road, passed Montezuma
Valley with the City of Cortez in the distance,
also saw the Chuck a Luck Mountains in Arizona,
crossed a good bridge over the long deep and ex-
pensive canal made to take water to Cortez from
the river Dolores. We traveled a long distance,
and camped when quite dark for the night, which
was cloudy and every appearance of rain; our
beds were made by fire light; as we could not see
any distance so I wondered what sort of a place
it was, we slept well and comfortable, on awak-
ing in the morning I saw an immense flock of
crows pass over our beds and said to Mrs. Freeze
we are going to have no rain the crows are flying
very high. On getting on my elbow and looking
around I was delighted with the sight of the field
of beautiful flowers on which we had slept, there
was nothing else in view, I pulled a bunch which
I keep for a relic from under our wagon cover
and mattress and I admired the place as a verit
able "Field of Ardath."


[Column 1]

	Continuing our journey we rode over a very
good and picturesque road, camped and had
lunch in a little grove 9,000 feet above the sea
level, drove fifteen miles, watched and saw the
last of that beautiful and majestic "Cathedral
Rock." Arrived at Dove creek, good water, re-
plenished our jars, and camped about a mile
farther; next day came to Piute springs, delicous
water, lunched and continued our travel, passed
La Plata and Blue mountains in the distance, saw
one solitary coyote, after hearing a number of
them howl and bark the night previous; we
wanted to see a big herd of them; on arriving in
evening at Monticello we received a very warm
and hearty welcome from the good folks there.
Mrs. Freeze and I attended a party given in the
school house in honor of the efficient and intelli-
gent teacher, Brother Thomas, who was intend-
ing to return to his home in Provo for vacation,
we very much enjoyed ourselves. Next day we
held a general woman's meeting, there was a
large attendance. In the afternoon Brother
Rogerson and wife came with buggy to take Mrs.
Freeze and I a drive to a high eminence where
we could get a splendid view of the surrounding
country, we came to Soldier Springs where a
company of troops had a good easy time and
vacation looking for culprits and cattle stealers
whom they did not find. We sat and looked
around the horizon seeing in the distance the
Mountains, La Plata, Blue, Silverton, La Salle, Ute
and Mancos.
	On starting from Monticello our company
numbered twenty-six persons, we had a most en-
joyable time in our camp that night, music and
singing, and we felt almost sorry our "camping
out" was to end so soon this being our last night.
Next morning we had a slight scare, some of the
horses were not to be seen, after a delay of a
short time they were all found safe; we passed
"Church Rock" a grand appearing and massive
sight, several of us walked down and up a very
large and dangerous gulch, flowers, flowers
everywhere, passing which, we came to a very
long and dangerous dugway, stopped and
lunched at Kane Creek. Traveled in afternoon
to Moab, Brother Holyoak's family were all
kindness and love to us; we were very much de-
lighted to meet Brothers Savage and Talmage,
who came to meet with the Saints in Conference;
we had a most interesting and instructive time
during the meetings held Saturday and Sunday.
On Sunday evening the Y. L. M. I. A. held a
Conference, addresses were given by Mrs. Freeze
and myself, Brothers Savage and Talmage, the
house was crowded. On Monday the Relief
Society and Primary Association held their Con-
ferences; all the meetings were fully attended; in
fact the meeting house was filled to its utmost
capacity, all seemed well satisfied and fully repaid
for the trouble they had taken in traveling so
many long miles. On Tuesday we had a painful
time in parting with our much loved and es-
teemed friends, Brother and Sister Hammond,
Counselors William Halls and Platte Lyman,
Bishop and Sister George Halls and others who
will ever hold a warm place in my heart. On
Wednesday morning we left Moab very early,
Brother Orlando Warner Jr. taking Sister Freeze
and myself; Brother Bayles taking Brothers
Savage and Talmage to Grand River which we
crossed safely on the ferry boat.
	As in our outward trip we camped for lunch at
"Courthouse Rock," still flowers, flowers every-
where, a continuous "Field of Ardath" all along
the road which the brethren kept us well supplied
with. Arrived safe and well at Thompson's
Springs, where we changed again to the railroad.
We had six weeks very pleasant visit with the
kind and hospitable people of San Juan Stake
who did all in their power to make us happy and
we certainly enjoyed ourselves to the utmost ex-
tent of our feelings. It was also the most de-

[Column 2]

lightful season of the year to travel. We give
heartfelt thanks to President F. A. Hammond for
giving us the opportunity.
			ELIZABETH HOWARD.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A LOVELY WOMAN PASSED AWAY.

	At her home in San Francisco, Sunday, July
17th, there passed from our earthly presence,
another loyal, active member of the Pacific Coast
Women's Press Association, our Assistant Re-
cording Secretary, Mrs. Susan Taylor D'Evelyn,
the wife of Dr. F. W. D'Evelyn, a physician of
note in that city.
	The Press Association had no more earnest,
active member, nor any worker therein a more
faithful friend than Mrs. D'Evelyn. As a member
of the Executive Board and several standing
committees she was untiring in her zeal for the
success of the organization. She was the personi-
fication of all that is beautiful in Christian wo-
manhood and happy motherhood. The heart of
each one of a host of friends, both men and wo-
men, goes out today in tender, but what would
seem to be helpless sympathy for the two little
motherless children, who in the blissful ignorance
of their babyhood, are yet unconscious of the
depth of their loss, but who in the days and years
to come will yearn in vain for the mother love
and care that was given them so abundantly.
	Besides her devotion to her husband and babies
Mrs. D'Evelyn found time in her active young life
not only for her Master's work in the church, but
to take hold wherever a helping hand was needed
along the philanthrophic lines outside, to identify
herself with whatever humanitarian movements
she could. Every interest of her husband's was
hers. In his hospital work she was close beside
him, having been foremost in the plan of the work
of the Lady Patronesses of the San Francisco
Polyclinic which adjunct to that body has proved
itself so efficient in supplementing the good work
among the afflicted poor.
	Mrs. D'Evelyn was a native of the country
which has given to the world so many of its
brilliant writers, Tom Moore, Sheridan, and
Burke the prominent among them. Her writings
abound in that true native wit so rare a gift. For
a number of years a beloved instructor in Victoria
College, Dublin, she has since her residence in
America been in correspondence with the Victoria
College Magazine, and a contributor to other
Dublin papers beside her connection with the
press of California. In her death the people of
the Pacific Coast have lost another woman of
earnest endeavor and inestimable power for good
in the example of her unselfish life.
			MINNA V. LEWIS.
SAN FRANCISCO.


[Column 1]

IN MEMORIAM.

	A TRIBUTE to the Memory of the late Sister
Sarah E. Groo, read at a meeting of the 9th Ward
Relief Society, July 19,1892.
	Since our last meeting, our Heavenly Father
has called home our much beloved and highly
esteemed President, Sister Groo. Although
suddenly snatched from earthly home and ties,
her life’s work has been but a preparation for just
such a summons into another realm of usefulness.
In contemplating this to us, sad event, we can
but conclude, in consideration of how much good
has been crowded into that life work, that our
Father made no mistake in taking from us one
who, though not having lived the time alloted to
mortals as we count time and years, had, if
rightly estimated accomplished even more than a
beneficent Father would require of a dutiful
daughter in that lapse of time. Accepting this
view of the case, we cannot call the change alto-

[Column 2]

gather untimely, yet to the bereaved and deso-
lated hearts we fully realize it can but be sadly
unwelcome. In her home life the departed was
all that the sweet words, woman, wife and
mother can imply—a tower of strength and an
anchor of rest to which, instinctively, all hearts
would fondly and lovingly cling.  And if "to be a
true womanly woman is great" then Sister Groo
has won that distinction; yes, and more, for she
was not only a true womanly woman, but a true
Latter-day Saint, the highest distinction to which
mortals can attain.
	Not alone in the hearts of husband, children,
and others endeared by ties of kindred will Sister
Groo be missed and mourned. For many years
past, her duties in connection with the Relief
Society have caused the strongest ties of friend-
ship to spring up between herself and associates
in their mutual labor of love; not ordinary ties of
friendship, to be a faint memory in the busy whirl
of life; but eternal and enduring as heaven itself,
and not until these same relations are renewed in
a higher life will the loss occasioned by her de-
parture be fully recompensed. Among the poor,
the afflicted and sorrowful, it would be impossible
to enumerate her deeds of love and kindness, but
unwritten though they be, in the grateful hearts
of the recipients, the memory of Sister Groo will
ever remain green.
	After a brief but intensely severe illness, Sister
Groo departed this life on June 22, 1892, in the
sixty-sixth year of her age. She came to Salt
Lake City from New York, her native state in
the year 1854, since which time she has resided in
this ward, with the exception of a brief period
when she in common with the rest of the Saints
vacated her home and moved South.
	On November 15,1870, she was called to occupy
the position of President of the Relief Society of
this ward, previous to which time she had filled
the office of Counselor. By nature retiring and
modest, inclination would have led her to decline
the acceptance of positions savoring of a public
character, and no motive save that of a stern
sense of duty, could have induced her to yield
her own desires in this respect to gratify the
wishes of others. Yet, she was ever equal to the
requirements of these offices, discharging her
every duty with characteristic dignity and
efficiency, giving entire satisfaction to all over
whom she presided as well as to her superiors
in office.
	That the faithful and devoted wife, mother,
sister and friend has earned the rest she now en-
joys, none will doubt, and while we deeply sym-
pathize with those whose hearts are broken and
desolated by this sad event, yet in fancy we
picture her joy in meeting the loved ones gone
before, and we are glad even in the midst of our
own great sorrow, that she at least has some
alleviation for any pang it may have cost her to
leave the loved and lonely ones behind.
	The funeral services were held on Friday the
24th of June, being very appropriate and impres-
sive, the remarks relating to the estimable char-
acter and life of the deceased.
	The casket of white was completely covered
with the choicest flowers wrought in the most ex-
quisite designs—the gift of those who knew how
well she loved these beautiful creations of her
Father.  And when, at last, her mortal remains
were consigned to mother earth, the mound
which marks her last resting place was a literal
bed of flowers, placed there in quiet sorrow and
reverence by the daughters of her husband, a
fitting close to the last sad rites, paid to one who
always loved and worked among the flowers.
			HATTIE A. WOOLLEY.
July, 7, 1892.


Quarrels would not last long if the fault
was only on one side.—Rochefoucault.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORT.

SAN JUAN STAKE.
	MINUTES of the Relief Society Conference
of the San Jaun Stake of Zion held at
Moab, May 23rd 1892. Pres. Martha Ham-
mond presiding, choir sang, "Prayer is the
soul’s sincere desire." Prayer by Counselor
William Halls, singing, "God is love."
	Minutes of the last meeting read and ac-
cepted. Pres. Hammond gave an interest-
ing account of her visit around the Stake
with the sisters from Salt Lake City. The
several branches in the stake were then
represented Counselor Delia Lyman re-
ported Bluff, Sister Moselle Halls Mancos,
Sister Miriam Wharton Monticellc, Sarah
Holyoak, Moab.
	All agreed that the Society represented
was in a prosperous condition and that a good
feeling prevailed among the sisters and the
Lord was blessing them in their endeavors
to do their duty.
	A song entitled "The Old Cabin" was
rendered by Daisy Shaffer and Mrs. West-
wood.
	Sister Howard spoke of the Relief Society
as a medium through which to obtain in-
telligence and testified that the Lord did
bless all who tried to take part in the work,
all sisters should be alive energetic and
active members of the Relief Society. The
duty of the sisters is to grow into the knowl-
edge of the Gospel and all other intelligence.
	Sister Freeze encouraged the sisters to
speak and take an active part in the meet-
ings, knew the Lord had and would still
bless the sisters in their endeavors to do
their duty urged all to be united and love
each other.
	Br. C. R. Savage from Salt Lake City,
realized that the mission of good sisters is a
great one as they have the blessed privilege
of ministering to the sick and needy and
pour in the wine and oil of human kind-
ness and could be a blessing to all they
came in contact with.
	Dr. J. E. Talmage from Salt Lake City
spoke of the prosperous condition of the
people of this stake said the Relief Society is
doing a grand work.
	Even the great people of the world ad-
mire the organization of the Relief Society.
The speaker continued his remarks at some
length, the theme being praise and admira-
tion for the work done by the sisters.
	Pres. F. A. Hammond endorsed what had
been said by all, hoped all would remember
the good words and would be encouraged
and induced to attend conference more often.
Pres. Martha Hammond testified that the
Spirit of the Lord had been largely enjoyed
during this meeting, spoke of the good done
by the sisters from Salt Lake in their travels
and prayed the blessings of the Lord to still
attend us.
	Conference adjourned for three months
choir sang an anthem "Straight is the Gate."
Benediction by Platte D. Lyman.
		ANNA M. LYMAN Sec. protem.
		EMMA BAYLES, Stake Sec.


LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY
MEETINGS.

	THE regular meeting of the sisters which
convenes in the 14th Ward of this city held
Saturday, July 2, at 2 p. m., was specially
interesting. President M. I. Horne pre-
sided. Opened by singing "All is well etc"
prayer by Mrs. M. W. Wilcox, singing "O


Jesus the Giver" etc. Minutes of previous
meeting read and approved, also minutes of
conjoint meeting of 17th Ward and South
Bountiful Primary Associations.
	President Horne was the first speaker,
she spoke of the positions women are and
may be called to occupy, the management
of home, order necessary to happiness,
prayer not to be neglected, humility and
faith needful, referred to the parable of the
ten virgins, and the many temptations that
beset us on every side.
	Mrs. Clara Cannon bore her testimony,
expressed her desire to remain faithful.
	Mrs. F. Smith rejoiced in being with the
Saints after an absence of some months;
said, "there is no place like home," there
are many people in Los Angelos claiming
to be Latter-day Saints and much good
could be done by Elders visiting them,
nothing could induce her to leave this place,
desired to be preserved in the truth."
	Mrs. Julia C. Howe spoke upon
the economy of home; thought our children
should be encouraged to save their nickels
for the Temple and other good purposes,
teachings of this kind will be remembered
by the little ones when they grow to be men
and women.
	Mrs. H. C. Young related a dream she
had in the early days, showing the things
now coming to pass, felt it was necessary
that the young people should be tried,
thought if we clung to our children they
would be saved, she would never slacken
her hold upon the young girls, they will all
eventually be gathered into the fold,
thought much depended upon our union.
	Mrs. E. Paul felt blessed in coming to
the meeting had been prevented by sickness
for some time past.
	Counselor E. Webb felt that the grand-
mother could do a great deal, through kind-
ness to the little ones; they generally be-
lieved all that grandma told them; wished
the young mothers could be at these meet-
ings and hear the teachings, love and
charity should fill our hearts continually,
through love and kindness we must try to
keep the youth in the right path, and may
the Lord bless our efforts.
	Counselor E. Stevenson, "We can't live
too near the Lord in these times, the good
things we hear should be put into daily
practice, we should cease to speak evil of
one another, and learn the lesson of charity;
be guarded in all our sayings, we know that
our lives are full of trials, she felt full of
sympathy for young mothers; we should
treasure up in our hearts the good we have
heard today, and may the Lord assist us to
put it into practise, that we may be useful
in building up his kingdom.
	President Horne made closing remarks, ex-
horting the sisters to be faithful and diligent
in all their duties, that they might receive
the blessings promised. Meeting adjourned
for two weeks, singing "Lord dismiss us
etc. Benediction, V. R. Young.


EXTRACT FROM LETTER.

	THE Bishop wishes me to say he is very
grateful for your kind feelings, and good
wishes expressed in your last letter, in re-
gard to his birthday. He had three good
letters from Salt Lake, which he appreciates
very much.
	We had a nice time here on the 23rd, of
July, with about fifty of our friends. The
Stevenson's and company addition was
greatly appreciated. We deemed it a rare


privilege to entertain such dear, good
friends.
	We had a fine 24th, a lovely procession,
with representations of "Uath as it was,
Utah as it is, Utah's Best Crop," Relief
Society, Sunday School, Primary, and
many other features. The speeches, songs,
recitations etc., were excellent, while not an
expression was made throughout the whole
time, to which our friends, of which there
were many present, could take exception,
or that could possibly leave "a sting behind"
hence "peace and good will" reigned.
	We have torn down all our old log cabins
"relics of a harder day" and are building a
good addition to our home which will make
it very convenient. And while we are
building, we always give the workmen
dinner and supper, which means a good
deal of work for me. But I can not but do
it with the best of feelings, for when we
built the old primitive cabins, which are
now no more, Sister Maria Madsen and I
carried water from Sanpitch, made the mud
and plastered them with our own hands.
	Well, Sister Wells, times have changed,
I trust I shall not be ungrateful to our
Heavenly Father for the change.
	With kindest regards in which the
Bishop joins I remain,
	As ever your friend and sister in the
Gospel of peace,
			HELENA MADSEN.
	GUNNISON, July 27, 1892.


FOOD FOR THOUGHT.

	AGAIN I have been reading the record
which has been hid up in the ground for
ages, but now brought to light for the bene-
fit of this generation; a time when great
knowledge is given; many sciences de-
veloped, which exhibit the most powerful
display of the human mind, until it really
seems God-like; and why? Did not our
Savior say what would be done in the last
days? Yes truly, He said in the last days
his spirit would be poured out upon all
flesh, your sons and daughters should
prophesy, your old men see visions, and
young men dream dreams, etc.
	We are also told this good spirit will show
us things to come, and bring things to our
remembrance. Will not this make us suc-
cessful in all our pursuits of life? yes surely;
as well in science as any other laudable pur-
suit.
	St. Paul said, "knowledge puffeth up, but
charity edifieth." Here then is the danger
of becoming proud because of the attain-
ments we arrive at. Shall the praise of the
world make us forget God, the author of all
science? We must be short-sighted indeed
if we allow this vanity to take possession of
our minds.
	Yet we are told there is a becoming kind
of pride, yes as many kinds of pride as there
are of virtues. Now I must tell you that
this ancient record, the Book of Mormon,
has given me a new field of thought on this
subject.
	In my youth I was taught to think that
pride was the main spring to success. A
person without pride would not fill any
position properly; because he would be
lacking in ambition, also in dignity and
self-respect; but since reading this book a
clearer view, more sound principles have
presented themselves to my mind. I can
see that the word pride has not been prop-
erly defined. I feel quite positive that the


attributes of the Deity which naturally be-
long to us should never be called pride.
Pride being surely just the opposite to
humility, for it is written of God our Father,
that He resists the proud but gives grace to
the humble.
	Only think while our Savior was fasting
forty days and nights in the depths of
humility; Did He lack dignity and self-
respect, when told to cast himself down
from the pinnacle of the Temple to prove
he was the son of God? The tempter said
if thou be the Son of God cast thyself down,
for it is written, He will give his angels
charge concerning thee to keep thee lest thou
dash thy foot against a stone. His reply
was, "It is written thou shalt not tempt the
Lord thy God." In each temptation he
was reproved in the same manner.
	We learn from this blessed book, points
of doctrine most precious, which will en-
able us to give things their proper value
and also their proper place. While reading
the account of our Savior who after his
resurrection came to this continent to visit
"sheep of another fold," here he taught
them his gospel, same as he taught the
Jews, called his sermon on the mount;
found in the 5th, 6th and 7th chapters of
St. Mathew. These people listened and
obeyed, and three generations passed away
in righteouness.
	But in the fourth generation pride made
its appearance. Then animosity and strife
began; hatred, malice and revenge, took
the place of faith, hope and charity, and
destruction followed in its train.
	Now let us contemplate the difference be-
tween pride and humility, which last like
the bread of heaven strengthens and builds
np, while pride, like the intoxicating bowl,
only stimulates and intoxicates, and if in-
dulged in, will confuse and darken the
mind and also bring destruction and death.
Yet we are told this intoxicating draught is
made from the same grain that bread is
made of; then why not claim the virtues to
belong to pride which humility claims? But
the process which produces the intoxicant
is so different, from the plain, simple bread
of humility, here is the difference.
	Humility in her plain, simple garb could
keep three generations in righteousness,
loving, kind and charitable to all, and thus
make a heaven on the earth. While pride,
made of the same material, upsets and over-
throws all the joy and peace which humility
produces.
	No wonder then that the Bible teaches
that "The Lord resists the proud, but gives
grace to the humble," for by this His king-
dom will be built up, but by the other it
will be destroyed.
	Apostle Orson Pratt once said that we
are Gentile Saints; this being the case we
find ourselves, from force of habit, giving
pride the same credit today that we did be-
fore hearing the Gospel, although so often
corrected in Holy Writ, saying "beware of
pride." Also saying "Pride cometh before
destruction and a haughty spirit before a
fall."
	Have not we fallen far enough? since the
Lord permits those who look upon us with
contempt and ridicule to govern and bear
rule? Let us reflect.
			ZION'S CONVERT.
	BOUNTIFUL, July 8, 1892.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Raillery is sometimes more insupportable
than wrong; because we have a right to re-
sent injuries, but it is ridiculous to be angry
at a jest.—Rochefoucault.


[Column 1]

PREHISTORIC MAN IN AMERICA.

[Continued.]
	Knowledge of the American continent
existed in China and Japan as early as the
fifth century. The ships of the Chinese
visited it. They called it Fu-Sang, and in
the great Japanese encyclopaedia it is treated
at some length, and located as seven thou-
sand miles or more east of Japan.
	In 1170 a Welsh prince sailed westward,
passing the south of Ireland, in search of a
land of refuge from the civil war that ex-
isted among his countrymen. After a long
journey he found it and made preparations
for a settlement. He returned to Wales,
secured a company that filled ten ships, and
sailed away never returning. Nearly five
hundred years later, in 1660, Rev. Morgan
Jones. a Welsh clergyman, seeking to go
by land from South Carolina to Roanoke,
was captured by the Tuscarora Indians.
He declares that his life was spared because
he spoke Welsh, which some of the Indians
understood; that he was able to converse
with them in Welsh, though with difficulty,
and that he remained with them four months,
sometimes preaching to them in Welsh. In
early colonial times the Tuscaroras were cal-
led "White Indians" and their ancestors
were evidently the Welsh colony that left
Wales in 1170. But the Norsemen had set-
tlements in America long before this period.
	During the last fifteen years there has
been a new theory advanced by Lewis H.
Morgan. He holds "that there never was
a prehistoric American civilization, proper-
ly so-called, but only an advanced and won-
derfully skillful barbarism or semicivilization
at the utmost. The aboriginal races, ex-
cept perhaps the Esquimaux, were essential-
ly one in their social structure, but varying
in their development. In his view there
never was an Aztec or Maya empire, but
only a league of free tribes, appointing
their own chiefs, and accepting the same
general modes of organization that have pre-
vailed among all the more advanced famil-
ies of North American Indians. The for-
ests of Yucatan held no vast cities—cities
whose palaces remain, while the humble
dwellings of the poor have perished, but
only pueblo towns, in whose great com-
munal structures rich and poor alike dwelt."
	The largest aboriginal structure of stone
in the United States is at Pecos, New Mex-
co. It has a circuit of 1,480 feet, is five
stories high, and once included five hundred
separate rooms. This dwelling at one time
sheltered the inhabitants of a whole Indian
town. There are many other similar ruins
and, as a rule each of these buildings consti.
tuted a village—a single vast house built
on three sides of a court. The stories rose
in snccessive terraces, each narrower than
the one beneath, and each approachable only
by ladders; there being no sign of any inter-
nal means of ascent from story to story.
The outer walls were built usually of thin
slabs of gray sandstone, laid with the great-
est precision and accuracy, often with no
sign of mortar, the intervals being filled
with stones of the minutest thinness, so that
the whole ruin appears in the distance like
a magnificent piece of mosaic work. These
pueblos were practically impregnable to all
uncivilized warfare, and they differ only in
material from the adobe pueblos occupied
by the village Indians of to-day. The only
means of passing from one terrace to another
in both instances is by ladders. Many of
these buildings are now occupied, but more
are in ruins. Each shelters hundreds of

[Column 2]

inhabitants, and the existing village Indians,
Mr. Morgan thinks, probably represent for
us not merely the race, but the mode of liv-
ing of those who built every one of these
great structures. He also thinks that if we
wish to know what was the America which
Cortez invaded we must look for it in the
light of these recent investigations.
	Whatever degree of barbarism or semi-
civilization was obtained by any of the early
American races, it was everywhere based
on similar ways of living; it never resem-
bled feudalism, but came much nearer to
communism; it was the condition of a
people substantially free, whose labor was
voluntary and whose chiefs were of their own
choosing.
	Widely scattered throughout the United
States, from sea to sea, artificial mounds are
discovered, which may be enumerated by
the thousands or hundreds of thousands.
They vary greatly in size some are so small
that a half dozen of laborers with shovels
might construct one of them in a day,
while others cover acres and are scores of
feet in height. These mounds were ob-
served by the earliest explorers and pioneers
of the country. They did not attract great
attention, however, until the science of
archaeology demanded their investigation.
Then they were assumed to furnish evidence
of a race of people older than the Indian
tribes.
	The Mound Builders were formerly re-
garded as a race so remote from the present
Indian tribes that there could be nothing
in common between them, yet all recent
theories deny this. Many Indian tribes
have built burial mounds for their dead.
	Some of the mounds in Ohio have yield-
ed from their deepest recesses articles of
European manufacture, showing an origin
not farther back than the historic period.
Spanish swords and blue glass beads have
been found in the mounds of Georgia and
Florida.
	The ancient Mexicans—the Aztecs and
the Mayas—were skilled in horticulture,
yet had no beasts of burden, although the
ox and buffalo were within easy reach.
They were a trading people, and used mon-
ey, but had apparently no system of weigh-
ing. They used stone tools so sharp that
Cortez found barbers in the public squares
shaving with razors made from obsidian, a
sort of glass produced by volcanoes. They
worked in gold and copper, yet they had
not learned to make iron tools from the
masses of that metal which lay almost pure
in their midst. They could observe
eclipses and make a calendar, yet it is still
doubtful whether they had what may prop-
erly be called an alphabet. It is certain
that they had a method of picture writing
not apparently removed in kind from the
soft of pictorial mnemonics practiced by many
tribes of Indians at the present day. There
is in existence an alphabet long supposed to
belong to the Aztecs or Mayas, but a few
years ago it was proved to be a fabrication.
Tylor, who is said to be the highest living
authority on these matters, considers it
essential to the claim of civilization that a
nation should have a written language.
Tried by this highest standard we cannot
yet say that either the Aztecs or the Mayas
or the Mound Builders were civilized.
	To sum up in a few words the modern
theory, or Morgan's theory, prehistoric man
in America, it is: All the lodges, palaces,
and pueblos are but the communal dwellings,
of one great aboriginal race, of uncertain
origin and history, varying greatly in grade


of development, but one in society, and in
blood. This has not yet been fully
developed, so it is but a theory still.
	In order to make this theory consistent
Mr. Morgan ignored many difficulties and
settled many points in an off hand manner,
and often states positively what has been
proved was only probable.
	The annals of the Columbian epoch have
been carefully studied, and it is found that
some of the mounds have been constructed
in historical times, while early explorers
and settlers found many actually used by
tribes of North American Indians; so we
know that many of the Indians were build-
ers of mounds. The contents of these
mounds have been compared with the works
of art of the Indian tribes before they were
influenced by Europeans and both were
substantially identical.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


INFORMATION WANTED.

FOR THE WORLD'S FAIR.

	[Questions to be answered in the County
reports to the Annual Convention of the
W. S. A. of Utah, to be held in Salt Lake
City, October, 1892.]

	How many women in your County own
property and pay taxes?	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Estimate ,if you can, the amount paid.)
	How many ordained women in your
County?	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
	How many charitable institutions con-
ducted by women?	 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
	How many women in your County en-
gaged in literary work?
	How many authors? . . . . . . . . . . . . . How
many teachers? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . How many
lawyers? . . . . . . . . . . . . How many physicians?
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . How many lecturers on local
and general reform?
	Report any other enterprises of special in-
terest to women.


THE Tenth National Convention of the
Woman's Relief Corps will meet in the city
of Washington, D. C., the third week in
September. Members desiring accom-
modations will address Mrs. Janet Richards,
Secretary of Committee on Accommodations,
1,527 R. I. Avenue, N. W., Washington,
D. C.
	MRS. ROYAL LEIGHTON, of the Society
of Friends, sailed recently from New York
for Palestine, to found a second school for
girls about one hundred miles from Jerusa-
lem, and farther in the interior. On a pre-
vious visit she founded a girls' school near
Jerusalem. She is threescore years of age
and successful in work.—Ex.
	MRS. ANNIE L. DIGGS, the well-known
lecturer and writer on Woman Suffrage,
Temperance, and Farmer's Alliance has
written a paper on "Women in the Alliance
Movement." She explains the social con-
ditions which made the present movement
inevitable, and why women from the first
have played such an important part in the
agitation. She gives a vivid pen picture of
prominent women in the movement, with
six illustrations of leading women; includ-
ing a full page picture of Mrs. Mary A.
Lease, popularly called the "Joan of Arc"
of the People's Party.—Ex.


I could never think well of a man's in-
tellectual or moral character if he was
habitually unfaithful to his appointments.—
Emmons.


DIED.

	MARCHANT:—In Peoa, Summit County, Utah,
June 24th, 1892, Lydia Marchant, aged seventy-
eight years.
	Sister Marchant was born in Bath, Somerset-
shire, England, and became a convert to the
Gospel in 1843, and emigrated to Utah in 1854,
with her husband, the late Bishop Abraham
Marchant, and their large family, where she
suffered many hardships in this new country, hav-
ing to pass through the famine, but without com-
plaint.
	The older members of the Church who lived,
and the Elders who traveled in Bath and Birm-
ingham, in the early days of the Church, will re-
member Sister Marchant with pleasure and kind-
ness, for her home was always open to the Elders
and she cheerfully contributed at all times, to the
wants of those in distress.
	She has been the President of the Peoa Relief
Society for many years, in fact almost since it was
organized in Peoa, she also has been the agent of
the EXPONENT.
	She has raised a large family of five sons and
four daughters in the fear and admonition of the
Lord, her whole desire seemed to be to set such
an example that her sons and daughters might
follow her foot steps and thereby be saved in the
kingdom of our Father. She had no desire for
the things of this world, but looked forward to
the happiness to be gained in the next, by a life
worthy of a Latter-day Saint. She was the
mother of eleven children, and leaves nine, one
hundred grand-children and twenty-eight great-
grand-children, to mourn her loss.
	A meeting of the Peoa Relief Society held
on July 12th, passed the following resolution and
ordered a copy to be sent to the EXPONENT, and
a copy to be spread upon the records of the
Society:
	Inasmuch as it has been deemed wise by our
Heavenly Father to take from us our beloved
sister, Lydia Marchant, be it
	Resolved, that in her death we have lost our
beloved President and a kind and loving sister;
and be it further
	Resolved, that we extend our heart-felt
sympathy to her family and friends who are
called to mourn her loss.
		HANNAH M. MARCHANT, Secretary.
	PEOA, UTAH, July 13, 1892.
	Bath papers and Millennial Star please copy.


OBITUARY.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Resolutions of Respect to the memory of
Lydia C. Snyder, who departed this life March
30, 1892, aged 70 years, 8 months, and 23 days, at
the 4th Provo ward, Provo City, Utah.
	Whereas it pleased our Heavenly in his alwise
mercy to call from this sphere of action Sister
Lydia C. Snyder who for many years has been an
officer and a member of this association. There-
fore,
	Resolved that in her demise we have lost the
valuable association of an honest and successful
laborer in our noble cause of Relief Society work.
	Resolved, that her example is worthy of imita-
tion by all good women.
	Resolved that we offer our sympathy to her be-
reaved children with the full assurance however
that ours and their loss is less grievous from the
full faith we have in her present happiness and
glorious future through her faith and works and 
the mercies of our Savior.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be
printed upon our minutes, a copy presented to


her family and be published in the Provo paper
and in the EXPONENT.
			M. M. WATSON,
			HARRIET BEAN,
			D. I. BOOTH,
			BARBARA SILCK.


MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p.m.
Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed;
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 63 E.
FIRST SOUTH STREET,
Three doors west of Theatre.
R.K.THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS
[logo for 'Rio Grande Western Railway: SCENIC LINE OF THE WORLD']
THE
Standard Gauge
RAILWAY!
..THROUGH THE..
ROCKY MOUNTAINS! 
Choice of Three Distinct Routes,
AND THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT RAILROAD SCENERY
IN THE WORLD.
Two Fast Express Trains Daily
EACH WAY BETWEEN
OGDEN, SALT LAKE AND DENVER.
ELEGANT  RECLINING CHAIR CARS!
Free of Charge.
Direct Connections made in Union Depots.
THE MOST THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED RAILWAY
IN THE WEST.
D. C. DODGE, A. E.WELBY, J. H. BENNETT,
Genl. Mgr. Supt. G. F. & P. A.
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFTand FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
DAVD JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
﻿The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 21.                         SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15, 1892.      No.   4.


CONTENTS.
	A Notable Anniversary. In Rural England—
A Story. Miscellaneous. R. S. Report. Dis-
covery Day—Francis Bellamy. Col. and Mrs.
Parker. Amelia B. Edwards—Miss M. Betham
Edwards. Prehistoric Man in America—Mary
Morrison. World’s Fair Notes.
	Editorial:—The History of Utah. A Grand
Woman Suffrage Rally. Editorial Note. Obitu-
rary. U. W. P. Club—E. R. Shipp, Rec. Sec.
	Poetry:—Our Mother's Grave—L. M. Hew-
lings. The World of the Heart—Augusta Joyce
Crocheron. Hidden Pearls—Hyacinth. Dreams
of Childhood—Mrs. L. S. Dickinson.


OUR MOTHER’S GRAVE.

In a strange land unknown, unmarked,
	No flowers placed by friendly hand,
No marble shaft points to the spot,
	Nothing attention to command,
Towards one who sleeps in grave so low,
	In undisturbed and silent rest,
While summer’s bloom and winter’s snow,
	Reclothe the earth above her breast.
The soft and silvery moonbeams sleep.
	Upon her distant hallow’d grave,
And silent dews of evening steep,
	The drooping boughs that o’er it wave.
Time with its seasons round have sped,
	With sun and shade for many years,
Since last the earth above her head,
	Was moistened by her orphan’s tears.
The tears, the pain, the earthly night,
	Of separation, have been keen,
The grave long holding from onr sight,
	A path beyond our human ken.
But now above her mold’ring clay,
	Hope points to us with holy light,
Revealing joys of endless day,
	Home of the ransomed Spirits flight. 
L. M. HEWLINGS.
ATCHISON, KAN.


[Column 1]

THE WORLD OF THE HEART.

"What is the world to thy heart, O, boy
	With the glowing, earnest eyes?"
"'Tis a broad fair field my strength to prove
	Where fame shall be my prize,
Where I shall battle unstained with wrong;
	Shall strengthen the cause that's pure,
'Till my deeds shall live in the poet's song
While men and books endure."

	And then I asked of the aged man:
		"O what is this world to thee?"
He said: "My world is not very large,
	The past has faded from me;
But my heart leans out to where, far away
	My sons and my daughters be,
With their flocks and herds on the mountain
		sides,
	Their homes in the vale below,
My heart would rest in their happy midst—
	It is there that I long to go.
I walk alone in the city's streets,
	O, what is the world to me!
When silence reigns in the empty home—
	My own, are the world to me."

And then I asked of a mother pale:
	"How wide is the world to thee?"

[Column 2]

She said: "One child lies buried where
	The oaks of Old England grow,
And an ancient castle threw its spell
	Where oft we have walked below;
And one lies rocked by ocean waves,
	Far down in its waters deep,
And one sleeps where, by desert road
	No stone doth a record keep;
Aud I am here, and those three graves
	That lie in the land and sea,
Have measured by their dear links, the length
	Of my heart's sad world, to me."

And then I asked of a lady bright
	With youth and with heart full free;
"O, tell me what thy world is like
	And what it doth hold for thee?"
"O, my world is very wide and fair,
	For my Captain lover goes
With his three good ships, where'er he choose
	And all the world he knows;
And I am with him in heart and song
	Wherever he guides his sails,
'Mid the balmy isles of the Orient
	Or the far North's chilling gales.
And the world of my heart is where he is,
	It is bright where the spices blow;
And oh! 'tis brave where he guides his ships
	Through the seas of ice and snow."

And then I asked one happier still:
	"How large is thy world to thee?"
"Not very large, but it holds enough
	That others might smile for me;
It holds not wealth or honors high
	But no happier hearts can beat,
We are king and queen in our own cot
	With our babe so fair and sweet;
'Tis a fair, bright world all peace and joy,
	With its blessings for us three,
And the future holds no thought of fear
	In my heart's world for me."

And last I asked of the sorrowing:
	"Like what is the world to thee?"
For thine arms are empty, thine eyes are sad,
	Come share thy sorrow with me."
She said: "As the heart, so is the world,
	In youth, or when it is old.
God, who gave the whole earth, gave to each
	A world of its own to mold.
Where the toiler heeded the still; small voice,
	For him the path was clear;
Where the pilgrim heeded his own heart's calls
	It hath led where the way was drear.
And ever ascending to the skies
	The cry of the creature pleads;
"Look Thou and help us, behold our work
	Our weakness and all our needs!"
And he sees the spirit amid the wreck
	Of human idols brought unto dust,
Ashes of roses' where the heart
	Had in the mortal placed its trust.
For my empty arms, my heart is full,
	Mine eyes through sadness see
One, only, who can my sorrows bear
	And walks unseen with me.
Some see but joy and know but half,
	Like flowers that bloom and die;
But souls that are made for usefulness
	Must stand where the storms go by.
To gain and yield, to endure, not mourn,
	No idol twixt God and thee—
To hope and wait for bliss, where? Beyond!
	This, friend, is the world to me.
			AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.


A NOTABLE ANNIVERSARY.

	Spain and America have been exchang-
ing civilities on the occasion of the anniver-
sary of Columbus setting sail from Palos on
his voyage of discovery four hundred years
ago on the third of August;
	A message was sent signed by Prieto,
Alcalde of Palos to the President of the
United States stating that the United States
flag had been hoisted in front of the convent
of La Rabida along with the banners of all
American States. Batteries and ships are
saluting amid the enthusiasm of the people.
The message closes with, "God bless Amer-
ica."
	The President of the United States cor-
dially acknowledges the message of greet-
ing through the Secretary of State.
	The day was celebrated in Spain with ap-
propriate festivities, historical procession,
illustrating four great events, The Con-
quest of Granada, The Departure of Colum-
bus, with the three vessels "Nina" "Pinto"
and "Santo Maria," these were reproduced
as they were 400 years ago and were drawn
on cars. The others were "The Court of
King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella and
The Reception of Columbus on his return
fron his first voyage."
	Another celebration will take place in
Madrid on September 12, when the great
exposition will be opened.
	All these affairs will be of an educational
nature to the world at large and help to im-
press upon the minds of the people every-
where important dates and occurances, the
causes that led to the discovery of this 
country and point out a lesson of the Provi-
dences of Our Father in raising up men in
all ages of the world to accomplish certain
things, which are preparatory to ushering
in other momentous changes for the uplift-
ing of humanity.
	The women of America cannot be too
mindful of what they owe to that noble
Queen, who so generously aided in the en-
terprise which has given to us, who live to-
day and to our fore-fathers and fore-mothers,
"this choice land above all other lands."
	It would seem as though the women of
America ought to do something magnificently
permanent to perpetuate the memory of
this singularly estimable and heroic Queen.
Her life is full of interest and teaches
through all the most admirable lessons of 
high moral courage, indomitable purpose
in the right direction on the side of principle,
and if she committed some errors, they
were but the fault of the times in which she
lived, and should not be remembered to-
day; but there is much in her history that is
superior and excellent.
	Pierre Martyr wrote on the day of her
death "The world has lost its noblest
ornament; a loss to be deplored not only
by Spain, which she has so long urged on-
ward in the career of glory but by every
nation in Christendom; for she was the
mirror of every virtue, the shield of the
innocent, and an avenging sword to the
wicked. I know none of her sex in ancient
or modern times who is at all worthy to be
named with this incomparable woman."


But for Isabella's personality in the ad-
venturous enterprise of Columbus he could
never have set sail from Spain; her eloquence
was soul-stirring. The words are pregnant
with the spirit of a queenly soul. "I will
assume the undertaking, for my own crown
of Castile, and am ready to pawn my
jewels to defray the expense of it, if the
funds in the treasury shall be found in-
adequate." A woman's courage inspired
Columbus to do and dare, all honor to
Isabella for her inspiration and zeal in the
enterprise, and wherever the name of
Columbus is inscribed, there too shall ap-
pear that of the royal, queenly woman,
Isabella of Castile.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XIX.
	The winter in London was superbly gay
beyond anything Clair or Lady Anna could
have imagined; Lady Walton entered into
the enjoyment with a zest scarcely consistent
after the protests she had made against
fashionable society, and her desire to do
something more useful, but she really
wished to initiate these young people into
the way and manner of the fashionable
world or as she herself expressed "the great
world," and all the ardor and vivacity of
her youth seemed to have returned as she
went from one place of amusement to
another, attended balls and parties and
made calls upon the great people.
	Clair was the favorite wherever the two
young men went, his foreign air and ac-
cent, his musical talent, and the mystery
that hung round him, which was a sort of
charm to the adoring mamma's and their
marriageable daughters,made him the centre
of attraction, or perhaps it was only the dif-
ference from other young men of distinc-
tion, the originality he possessed that was
the real cause. Lady Anna sometimes
felt she was more admired as Clair's sister,
than for her individual self. Yet Anna
was almost as much unlike other young
ladies as her brother was the generality of
young men.
	Miss Conway often thought what a
beautiful character her aunt Hilliard must
have been, to have such a lovely daughter
considering all the environments of her
cousin's girlhood,and knowing what a cold,
proud, haughty, arrogant man her uncle
Edward had been. He had his good points
she knew upon reflection and sometimes
she fancied he might have been different if
Anna's mother had lived to modify him.
Her principal fears for her cousin were in
Lady Walton's influence and yet she knew
that for Maitland's sake she would not wish
her to follow her lead exactly. Miss Con-
way scarcely ever attended Lady Anna to
any of the public balls, or receptions as
she always seemed de trop—for Lady Wal-
ton was very fond of playing the chaperone
to a lovely girl like Anna, and especially to
introduce her as the betrothed of her son.
	The winter passed quickly even to Miss
Conway for there were many things she
thoroughly enjoyed and she felt that her
stock of information was very greatly en-
larged. One can be always learning in
London, there is so much to see and to en-
gage one's attention, and Jane Conway was
one to make the best use of all that she
saw or heard, and she inwardly congratu-
lated herself that she would be much more
companionable as a wife, for having had
this opportunity. Although Miss Conway
had taken this London season quietly she
had really made more out of it than the

[Column 2]

others. Lady Anna had posed as a beauty
unconsciously to be sure, but it was a fact
nevertheless that it was her greatest at-
traction a sort of symmetrical beauty of face,
and figure. Clair was a favorite because he
could amuse and entertain company, he pos-
sessed to a great degree the faculty of mak-
ing others enjoy themselves without an
apparent effort, but Jane with her conscious-
ness of right and exalted ideas of personality,
and of cause and effect,looked on and learn-
ed from observation much that passed un-
noticed by her companions. Life was real
and earnest to her, and not the dream of a
summer day or the pastime of an idle hour.
She had sought to impress Anna with her
views until she came to London, and even
there gave her occasional glimpses of how
things appeared to her, but Anna seemed
not to comprehend life's great mysteries no
more than a child. Alas! for such women,
they often get the severest positive lessons
that enter like iron into the very soul, and
wound so deep that it is impossible for the
wound to heal however soothing the
remedies applied.
	Lady Anna's beauty attracted almost
universal attention, and was often the sub-
ject of conversation at fetes and receptions.
At a brilliant party given by one of the elite
of London, one evening when the season
was at its height, an elderly lady seated
near Miss Conway (who had gone by the
urgent persuasion of both Anna and Clair)
remarked to a gentleman on the opposite side
from Miss Conway, "Do you know Lady
Anna Hilliard, I mean the one in the soft
green costume dancing with Lord Simsbury
just there? The gentleman addressed re-
plied indifferntly that he had not that
pleasure and asked why she was so inter-
ested in watching her. "She reminds me
of an intimate friend of my girlhood, she
cannot be a relative I think for I have
made some inquiries about her, and yet she
has the very same eyes and her face is al-
together so like."
	"And what became of your friend, how
did you lose sight of her?"
	"She married suddenly I heard; some one
she had only known a short time, fell
desperately in love, and died soon after. I
was abroad at the time and never heard the
particulars, but by the bye I remember her
aunt with whom she lived had a son, who
was quite distinguished in literary circles,
he loved his cousin and was opposed to her
marriage, you would know him I am sure,
it would be in yonr time, let me see his
name was Harrison, Robert I think, I
wonder what became of him?"
	"Do you mean the Harrison who was a
member of Parliament for several years?"
Well I don't remember about that, but he
was very opinionated I think, he had
an opinion that the man this cousin was
going to marry was a downright villian,
and would break her heart." "The gentle-
man I allude to is in London now and by
Jove this romantic story of your friend has
interested me so much I'll call on him to-
morrow, and see if there can be any con-
nection between this young lady and the
one you fancy she resembles so strikingly."
"Depend upon it there is, I can see it in
every movement. See she comes this
way," and as the lady spoke Anna came
towards her consin who was so rapt in the
conversation that she was like one amazed.
She would not then repeat what she had
overheard but moved away and said aside to
Anna, "Do you know the lady who sat
next me or the gentlemen with her?"

[Column 3]

	It is Mrs. Devenish and the gentlemen is
Mr. Everhard I have not been introduced
but I have been told the lady is a most
amiable and attractive woman, and "blush-
ing deeply" that she greatly admires me
because of my resemblance to one of her
friends."
	"O, then you know what I have just
heard accidentally from her own lips."
	"To you, did she speak to you?" "No
child to the gentleman, who sat by her, his
name I think you said is Everhard, he is
going to trace the matter up through one
of his friends."
	"Then I shall know who I really do look
like, for no one has ever been able to tell
me."
	"Your father once said to me you were
very like your mother in temperament but
did not refer to features, I imagine this lady
must have your mother in mind, it came to
me as if by intuition, if I should prove to
be right in my idea, it will be a sort of
demonstration to me of the fact that I am
somewhat inspirational in my nature—and
I scarcely know whether that is a blessing
or the opposite, you know there are people
who know things before they happen; it is
either sensitiveness or susceptibility or some-
thing of the prophetic perhaps, and in our
day there are no prophets or prophetesses,
we only read of them."
	"My dear cousin," replied Anna, "this
is all Greek to me, I do not comprehend
your meaning, though I draw this inference
from it, that if it should have been my
mother whom I so much resemble that Mrs.
Devenish cannot keep her eyes off me, you
would begin to believe, you had the spirit
of the prophets—or was descended from one
of them."
	"Joking aside Anna, you ought to be
very glad if Mrs. Devenish can tell you
about your own mother for I think you once
said to me; you never heard of any relatives
on that side at all."
	"I suppose then we may expect a call
from Mr. Everhard if he finds out any-
thing worth hearing."
	"Possibly though I do not know that it
would follow." Here the ladies were in-
terrupted by Maitland who came to ask for
a dance, and Anna inquired whether he
knew Mrs. Devenish and would he intro-
duce her cousin and herself.
	"O, mamma knows her very well and
will be pleased to do the honor, but I
must not lose the chance of dancing in
this set, and the floor is fast filling," so
taking his arm, the two were soon gone,
and Miss Conway wandered into the library,
as she felt no inclination to dance; she was
looking backward to her childhood, and
trying to recall what her mother had told
her of her uncle and his affairs. She only
remembered her saying he was very rich and
could not forgive her for marrying a poor
man, and she had a faint recollection of his
neglect of home and duty. These reflections
together with the feeling she had of the
mysteriousness of presentiments, and what
some might term superstitions,absorbed her
so completely that she failed to notice what
other occnpants were in the room until at-
tracted by the conversation, hearing a
familar name spoken. She turned to look
and saw Mrs. Devenish talking to a lady
elegantly attired, and she distinctly heard
her say, "you will remember the Italian sing-
er whom we heard years ago and whose eyes
as well as her voice made so many men fall
dead in love with her, and all the ladies
jealous, O, I recollect so well my own


[Column 1]
﻿father raving about her wonderful black
eyes, she was the mother of young Hilliard,
there was a marriage it seems though no
one in England knew of it, she lived abroad,
but died very shortly; and the gossips say,
he was very glad, for he wonld not acknowl-
edge her in any way, though he had really
been over head and ears in love before the
ceremony took place.”
	‘‘Really Mrs. Devenish I do not even
remember the great singer, I suppose it was
very long ago, and one can’t always recall
the great people one has seen, even if they
were celebrated singers; but why are you so
interested in the young man and what do
you care about his mother.”
	‘‘It is not so much the young man himself
though he is very fine every way, charming
in fact, but the family, there’s a mystery
about them even to to the relative who ap-
pears in society as the chaperone. She is
not just like other people, so sedate and old-
fashioned, she watches over these young
people like a mother, indeed if all mothers
were as cautious, there would be fewer
matrimonial mistakes I fancy.’’
	‘‘I don’t think it matters much who or
what these people are, they have their own
part to play in life, and will probably not
come in contact with us in any way, it can
make no difference to us, one would think
you were looking out for a husband or wife
for a son or daughter, and going into the
merits of ancestry the way you talk of these
Hilliards.”
	‘‘O, no! not that and indeed it seems they
are all spoken for unless it be the young
man, and I’m not sure of him, in point of
fact there’s a question whether he can suc-
ceed to the title.”
	Jane wished she were out of the room,
she felt as if she were listening to a private
conversation, and yet it was unavoidable;
soon after the ladies left the library to-
gether and she was glad to make her escape;
she had never heard before that there was
doubt about Clair’s heirship, and as for his
mother she had pretty well guessed, that it
was a case of fascination and infatuation
and not of a lasting character. She de-
cided not to repeat even to Anna what she
had unwillingly over heard, as it would
very likely only excite her curiosity with-
out being of any benefit; she seemed des-
tined to obtain all the family secrets.
	A day or two after the ball referred to,
and when Jane and her cousin were quiet-
ly talking in their morning room, the ser-
vant announced visitors: ‘‘Mr. Everhard
and a friend of his from abroad.” The
girls looked at each other in silence, but
only for a second or two, then with her
usual firmness Miss Conway gave her
directions to the man in waiting. Ere long
the young ladies descended to the drawing-
room and the formalities of an introduction
were waived by the gentlemen saying, they
came on business, and proceeded forthwith
to inquire whether Lady Anna Hilliard
would like to hear something concerning
the family of her mother. “I see said the
gentleman who accompanied Mr. Everhard
that you are the living image of my cousin,
Clarice Courtenay, and as she was the most
lovable of women pardon me if I seem to
speak familiarly to you; as it is now about
twenty years since I met her last, and hav-
ing been much in foreign parts I had no
idea until my friend here informed me of
your living in London, that my cousin had
left any offspring.  I was so thoroughly
astonished by the intelligence, that I re-
paired at once to Sir Edward Hilliard’s

[Column 2]
lawyers, and ascertained the truth, and
made bold to call; it is an unwarrantable
intrusion, but pardon the eagerness on my
part, and remember, rising to go, that here-
after you have a friend and protector in
your mother’s cousin, Rob. Harrison."


27
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HIDDEN PEARLS.

There are gems in the deep heaving water,
	Whose exquisite beauty's unknown.
Where the turbulent waves never falter,
	In the melodies found in their tone.

In the broad tow'ring peaks of the mountain,
	Down valleys 'neath canopies blue,
Where the musical spray of the fountain,
	Is kissed by each shower of dew.

E'en the rude chiseled ledges, where creepeth
	The daintiest fern leaf and vine,
Are teeming with treasures that sleepeth,
	Awaiting but patience and time.

There are still sparkling gems without measure,
	In hidden recesses of earth;
To the heart they are fast fleeing pleasures,
	That vanish e'er known is their worth.

Yet, treasures there are, far dearer than these,
	That wealth of the world cannot buy,
Whose lustre outshines, with greatest of ease,
	All the riches for which we may sigh.

Truth, Modesty, Virtue, bright jew'ls so rare,
	You're to me far more precious than gold;
Through the windows of souls, saintly and fair,
	Beams your purity, ever extolled.

Truth thou art a jewel, proven and tried,
	And thy light sparkles brighter each day;
Many are seeking thee, both far and wide,
	And old Time will but smooth out thy way.

Sweet Modesty, thou gem of true goodness,
	Greatly valued, because rarely found;
Widely scatter the seeds of thy meekness,
	And lowliness, far o'er the land around.

Oh Virtue, of all things that are lovely,
	True gift that from heaven is given;
'Tis a diadem sacred and holy,
	On the brow where its purity's riv'n.

Truth, Modesty, Virtue, I adore you!
	Purest pearls of "first water" to me;
Spread your light ever round us as dew,
	Brightest type of the virtue we see.
			HYACINTH.
	ALPINE, July 22, 1892.


DREAMS OF CHILDHOOD. 

DEDICATED TO MY SISTER.

My home was not in grandeur built,
	Nor, was it a charming New England farm.
It was a home in happiness complete,
	A home possessing every charm.
The dearest memories of childhood,
	That linger about my heart,
Bring to mind, many dear friends,
	From whom I have had to part.

Though the scenes of my life change,
	And I wander over hill and stream,
Yet, will I find a quiet, happy hour,
	Of home and mother to dream.
Peacefully, am I sitting to night,
	Around my own quiet hearth,
Living over again, my childish life,
	With all its joy and mirth.


I am dreaming, fondly dreaming
	Of the home, the dear, old home
Of my childhood, where through
	Orchard and meadow, I used to roam.
Once more in twilight, then moonlight, 
	With brother and sister so dear,
We go out in the deep shadowy lawn,
	To play games, to us rich and rare. 

I wander through orchard and meadow,
	Sometimes bending to gather a flower
Not more beautiful than fragrant,
	Or sit beneath the dear, old bower.
Once again, I travel the well-worn path,
	That led to the old Gum Tree Spring
Where I sat so oft', in days of yore,
	To laugh, talk or to sing.

How I loved the dear, old house dog,
	That protected me from all strangers,
Accompanied me in rambles,
	And so kindly shared all my dangers.
Hush! breathe not one loud word, to
	Break the repose of my pet cat.
Perchance, he too, is dreaming sweet dreams,
	As he sleeps on the hearth mat.

Spirit of dreams leave me not here,
	But gently open my mother's door.
Let me see the fire picture the
	Paneled walls, as in days of yore.
As I dream, I see visions, as it were,
	Visions of love, bright and fair.
I see those I loved best on earth,
	To night, where are they? Oh where.

Ah! I see my father and mother at
	The close of day, sitting side by side. 
She with face so gentle, so beautiful,
	He loving, as if she was but his bride,
Father listening to childish prattle,
	Mother with wee young babe at breat.
Each speaking of the dear little ones
	The two loving hearts have laid to rest.

Just the same is my father's Library,
	Nor changed is my mother's chair.
Tread gently, through that dear, old room
	For the sweetest of my memories are there.
Lift not the mystic veil of the future,
	But let my dreams forever last
For me there is joy and gladness,
	In thus, dreaming of the past.
			MRS. L. S. DICKINSON.
SALT LAKE, July 27, 1892.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Laws ought to be fashioned unto the
manners and conditions of the people whom
they are meant to benefit, and not imposed
upon them according to the simple rule of
right.—Herbert Spencer.
	Whoever regards the early history of
Christianity will perceive how necessary to
its triumph was that fierce spirit of zeal
which, fearing no danger, accepting no
compromise, inspired its champions and
sustained its martyrs.—Bulwer.
	Strictly, no two persons can see the same
thing in the same way, for it can never
happen that two persons have precisely the
same groups of ideas relating to any subject.
These depend on our past experience, on
our education, on the belief of our times, on
our various sects or parties, on our pet
theories, our interests, and our desires.
Did we but bear this in mind how many
quarrels and disputes might be saved.
How modest we should be in condemning,
how gentle in reproving, how careful in
counseling.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts.  No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3 00.  A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street,
second gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY	AUGUST 15, 1892.


[Column 1]

﻿THE HISTORY OF UTAH.

	A HISTORY of this Territory has been contem-
plated for years, and at last the time arrived when
it was really undertaken in earnest and with a
fair prospect of the ultimate success of the enter-
prise. The prevailing feeling everywhere seemed
to be that the right time had come and that the
right man had been selected to do the work.
Historians who anticipate doing their work satis-
factorily, must necessarily devote both time and
labor, and a great deal of each to the arduous
task.
	This one and that one comes forward with facts
and assertions, and anecdotes, and seemingly ex-
pect them all to be embodied in the work,
polished and elaborated by the author's genius,
when perchance the whole lot, or most of it, is
only so much waste matter. The man who is
writing the history is supposed to be competent
to judge what his book shall contain, to know
what to use and how to dispose of his subjects.
He may hear what some people have to say, but
cannot promise beforehand whether it will come in
or be discarded. History must be truth that will
recommend itself as genuine.
	Therefore the historian of any country or period
of time sets himself a Herculean task when he
consents to write the history of a country, and
especially when he attempts to cover forty years
and more, yes, nearly half a century as Bishop
Whitney has done, and besides to go back to the
causes that led to the settlement of this unin-
habited desert in the heart of the Rocky Moun-
tain region, a thousand miles either East or West
from civilization.
	Men may have education, thoughts, aspirations
for great literary work, yet when one settles down
to the actual writing of such a history as this one
it takes a vast amount of energy, vigor and exer-
cise of both brain and will power to fulfill the re-
quired purpose. Few people can appreciate such
an exclusive labor as it must necessarily be; the
whole soul of the author must be concentrated
upon the chain of events and circumstances to be
connected and put in form in the right place, at
the right time, and no mistake must be made;
one's brain is kept in a constant strain lest any
inaccuracy should creep in, and so absorbing is
such mental labor that it wears upon the vitality,
the nerves and the physical health more than the
hardest manual labor the man is capable of, could
possibly do. And yet those who know very little
of this kind of work attempt to criticise, and sit
in judgment on those who write the records of
the times, the histories that are to be handed
down to posterity.
	One volume of the History of Utah has been
finished, and is now before the public and the
press of the country, to be reviewed and judged
of on its merits. Some very favorable, and even
flattering notices have been received, and these

[Column 2]

are very encouraging to the author, who has ex-
pended so much time, energy and thought in pre-
paring the work for the publishers. It is good
and it is pleasant to have one's work appreciated,
it is like a soothing balm to the weary mind, but
one cannot consider the favor, or flattery of the
public in writing history, but the real matter to
be made use of; and whether it be agreeable, or
disagreeable it can't be left out; and the historian
generally speaking finds many things not to his
mind, but he cannot pick and choose in this, as
in fiction, he must use as best he can the occur-
rences that have actually taken place. The
people may have chosen to ignore, or forget cer-
tain unpleasant things but the historian is obliged
to recognize everything that pertains to the in-
terest of the country of which he writes. In judg-
ing of history there are many things to be con-
sidered, the author may have talent, even genius,
and here and there perhaps may be an oppor-
tunity to display it, but if some portions of his
work are dry and uninteresting the writer ought
not to be blamed if he has stated facts.
	Bishop Whitney has evidently aimed to make
the history, he has commenced a true and com-
plete record of events, as well as to give every-
thing in an original style, harmonizing with the
originality of the work he has undertaken, and
the people who must necessarily form the nucleus
of the work in hand, as much as the Puritans of
New England do the history of the North Eastern
states. Aside from this peculiarity of the subject
Bishop Whitney's style is original in itself; as is
noticable in his poetry, and in the books he has
previously written. It is smooth in the main, but
not so much so as to be tedious, but more like the
country in which he has been born and reared,
with lofty flights and heights, and deep ravines
full of profound mystery, and silence that is
grander than silvery speech; passages that
make one pause and reflect in depth of meaning,
and sometimes he leads you through labyrinths
of rough and tangled ways, and brings you out
where the clear water reflects the real landscape
of which you have taken but little note as you
wandered on, till you were brought face to face
with it in the living stream as it were.
	Of the history itself what can we say, that it is
a large book of over 700 pages, elegantly bound
printed on a superior quality of paper in good
sized type, correctly punctuated, diction excellent,
everything in the way of typographical work of
the best quality and workmanship, steel engrav-
ings of the pioneers and many of the prominent
men of the country well executed, also engrav-
ings of the three pioneer women who came with
the first company of pioneers to this desert moun-
tain region, not knowing whither they were to
find a resting place for their pilgrim feet, also an
engraving of the first lady school teacher in Utah.
With very much of the matter contained in
this volume we were already familiar and can tes-
tify to its accuracy in detail.
	Those who came here in the early days will
find many things brought to their remembrance
through the incidents related, and they will
thoroughly enjoy reviewing the past and having
their memories refreshed, and if perchance there
are dark and gloomy places described, they will
see how the Lord has brought his people safely
through it all, into the light again and that pros-
perity has dawned upon them after the days of
adversity.
	To the young people it will be a revelation al-
most as many of them know very little of the
settlement of the country, the conditions and cir-
cumstances through which their parents and
grandparents have passed, and what they en-
dured.
	To those who have heard much and really
known little of this part of the West, and of the
people who came and opened up these mountain
vales for a habitation, and a dwelling place, and

[Column 3]

have made the roads, built the bridges and done
the hard work, preparatory to securing ease and
comfort in the years that followed, they have now
the opportunity of examining this subject, making
themselves acquainted with facts through the
reading of this book which gives a most exhaus-
tive view and record of the whole matter at the
beginning, and will in the succeeding volumes,
give the various events that have since tran-
spired, the increase of population, political
changes, the advent of railroads and establish-
ment of the several religious denominations, and
Churches and other matters of interest, civil,
judicial and general.
	The second volume will give more concerning
women than the first has contained, it will treat
upon the enfranchisement of the women of Utah
the political conditions that followed, the es-
tablishment of the woman's paper, the various
organizations of women, charitable, literary and
for mutual improvement, in fact women will be
given a prominent place in the history. There
will be engravings of representative women in the
professions, in industries, in literary and chari-
table work. As to the literary merit of the history
it abounds in glowing passages, and we find
that wherever the author has had the scope, he
has shown his poetical talent in writing prose.
The reader cannot fail to be interested and notice
how impartially the writer has told his story.
None but a blindly prejudiced person could fail to
see, he had given full credit to all the people of
the Territory and made it a fair representation.
Men who do a great work like this are very rarely
appreciated while they are living, and therefore
should the history be even severely criticised, it
will only be what has happened to others.
	For our own part, knowing something of the
subject matter, we can but accord the most ar-
dent commendation to the author, that he has
been able to do so well in selecting his material
and fashioning it so beautifully.
	There are parts of the book that remind the
writer of that celebrated descriptive author
Washington Irving, and we fully anticipate the
second volume in which the woman subject is to
be dwelt upon will abound in beauty and excel-
lence of language such as will give the highest
tone to the exalted theme of woman; this second
volume will no doubt be looked for even more
anxiously than the first because of the interest the
first volume has awakened.
	This book brings the history to the civil war,
the vacating of Camp Floyd and relates in con-
nection other contemporary events; each chapter
has stirring episodes that cannot fail to produce
strong and lasting impressions, and the story is
undoubtedly more thrilling and pathetic than the
history of any other part of the western world.
The country itself having been previously
shrouded in mystery as it were, the fact of its be-
ing the haven of rest for weary pilgrims, and the
subsequent events are all telling to the lover of
wild and daring adventure.


A GRAND WOMAN SUFFRAGE RALLY.

	Some of the ladies outside Salt Lake seem
more enthusiastic on the subject of woman suf-
frage than are those who live at the Capital.
	On the 29th of July at American Fork the ladies
of the Association had a Grand Rally and a very
good time. People were invited from other
places and some from this City, Hon. C. W. Pen-
rose, President Zina D. H. Young, Mrs. Lizzie
Penrose, and the writer went down on the morn-
ing train and on arriving found carriages in wait-
ing to drive to Utah Lake. The ladies wore the
yellow ribbon and quite a number of gentlemen
were adorned with sunflowers, (which grow all
over this Western country in great profusion,) the
ladies drove, and their whips were all tied with


yellow ribbon; the drive was delightful, and the
view at Utah Lake is charming, the sound of the
water there its dashing and murmuring reminds
one much more of the sea than does Salt Lake.
Returning from the Lake the party drove to the
meeting house where the audience were already
seated, and we saw more yellow badges and sun-
flowers, as well as many other beautiful flowers
with which the house was decorated.
	The stand was draped with the stars and stripes
and the flag of Wyoming with the one golden
star hung in a conspicuous place; the life size
portraits of Mrs. Stanton and Miss Anthony in
elegant frames hung over us, also small ones' of
Sarah M. Kimball the President of the W. S. A.
for Utah Territory and Hannah Lapish the local
President.
	The singing was excellent, they have a good
woman leader who is also a zealous suffragist.
The songs were well chosen from the Utah Wo-
man's Song Book, prayer was offered by the
chaplain Phebe Christensen. The President
heartily welcomed the audience and a young wo-
man read an essay on Woman, which contained
much sound philosohy. A young man William
Robinson made a stirring speech, the best speech
from one so young that we have ever had the
pleasure of listening to.
	Mrs. Zina D. H. Young spoke upon the
mothers of the land very feelingly, the difficulties
they labored under while held in bondage, the
taxes they pay, the requirements made of them
and the solemn responsibilities resting upon
them.
	The writer made a few remarks upon taxation
without representation, the condition of laws re-
garding women's property rights in New Eng
land in her girlhood, the modification of these
laws in many states by the suffrage agitators.
	Hon. C. W. Penrose occupied the remainder of
the time. He reasoned from a logical stand-
point, explained the difference between suffrage
and citizenship, spoke of the advantages that had
been accorded women in this Territory, and of
his own work in the Legislature at the time of
the passage of the bill to strike the word male
from the statutes of Utah, so that women could
have been eligible to office as well as to cast a
vote. Referred to the failure of its receiving the
signature of the Governor, which is a positive
necessity in this Territory. He also alluded to
the unjust way in which the women of Utah were
deprived of the ballot by Congress, without any
reason what ever, when the Constitution of the
country declares, such things cannot be done
"without due process of law." His speech
throughout was educational, he urged the ladies
to study the Declaration of Independence and the
Constitution of the United States, praised their
energy and diligence and encouraged them to
persevere until they obtained those rights that
had been wrongfully wrested from the women of
the Territory.
	After a few words from the President, singing
and benediction by the young lady chaplain the
meeting adjourned to Grant's Music Emporium,
where in the large hall handsomely decorated a
banquet was spread for the suffrage association
and invited guests. The dinner was thoroughly
enjoyed and also the music which was a feature
of the occasion. The remainder of the day until
train time was spent in chatting socially and in
singing and partaking of refreshments, and when
the visitors from this City left, the ladies and
gentlemen assembled there were in the midst of
a musical treat. The Rally will doubtless be a
good stimulus for the extension of the work in
this direction.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


It is always a sign of poverty of mind
where men are ever aiming to appear great;
for they who are really great never appear
to know it.—Cecil.


EDITORIAL NOTE.

	The article we have published in three parts,
Prehistoric Man in America, contains more proof
conclusive of the Book of Mormon history, we are
in hopes that through reading it our sisters will
be induced to write on this subject, and bring up
points in evidence; it may be made a study and
result in good, if only to those who already be-
lieve but want further light on the subject. The
Story of the Book of Mormon by Elder George
Reynolds would be helpful in any such writing,
and we shall be glad to have some of this class of
articles. Who were the former inhabitants of
this land and from whence they came,is agitating
the lovers of research, and any light upon the
matter that can be given will be recognized by
honest seekers after truth. That the relics and
curiosities found in many parts indicate a high
state of civilization is now very generally ad-
mitted. We are well aware there are those
among the sisters who have the time to devote to
this subject, and we shall be very glad to hear
from them.


OBITUARY.

AMANDA WILLIAMS.

	MRS. AMANDA WILLIAMS, relict of Jesse
Williams of Rome, who died in Whitesboro
yesterday, was born March 10, 1802, in Rome, and
was the daughter of Elijah Wells and Jerusha
Brewster, his first wife. Her recorded American
genealogy runs back over two hundred and fifty
years and is associated with all the Wells' of this
country, many of them of marked prominence in
professional, political and military life. She was
married to Jesse Williams, February 28, 1822, in
Rome, and lived there nearly all their married
life upon the farm first settled by his father, and
where he died 1864. With her husband originated
the idea of associated dairying, so that he came
to be called the father of the American cheese
factory system. If he was the father, she was
equally the mother of the system, for to
her skill, gathered from twenty years ex-
perience in the management of their private
dairy, is to be accorded whatever of success at-
tended the early growth of the system in popular
favor. For several years rarely did a day's pro-
duct of the original factory escape her vigilant
care. Her whole soul was in her work and not
alone for selfish ends. She felt great pleasure in
imparting to others new in the work the full
measure of knowledge she had gathered from her
toil. She was a conscientious observer of the
cardinal tenets of the Christian faith, and ex-
emplified in her life the virtues it teaches. She
is survived by six children. Mrs. Dr. M. C. West
Miss J. C. and David Williams of Rome, D. C.
Williams of Fox Lake, Wis., W. B. and George
Wi liams of Whitesboro.—Utica Morning Herald.

	The lady whose death we republish from the
New York paper is the Aunt of Jesse W. Fox one
of the old residents of this Territory, and Sister
Williams has been connected with the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints many years,
faithful to its principles and true to her integrity.
She came to Utah some years ago on a visit, and
went to the St. George Temple where she re-
ceived the blessings to which she was entitled,
and officiated for some of her dead relatives
which was a great comfort and satisfaction to her.
Mrs. Williams was from the same branch of the
Wells family as the late Gen. D. H. Wells, al-
though not very nearly related.
			AUNT AMANDA.
Noble indeed as a woman could be,
True to her faith as the leaf to the tree;
Devoted to children, husband and God,
Humble and willing to bow 'neath the rod.


Firm to the truth, she endured to the end,
Firm as the rock, that no tempest can rend,
Filled was her life with kind words, and good
	deeds,
She walked in the path where righteousness
	leads.

A more noble life no poet e'er penned,
Loved by her kindred revered by her friends.
Blessed with God’s spirit, till her latest breath,
Serene in her life, and peaceful in death.

"Peace to thy ashes," thy mem'ry shall be
Honored through ages of futurity,
Rest from thy labors, receive thy reward,
"Enter thou into the joy of thy Lord."
			RUTH M. FOX.
APRIL 25, 1892.


U. W. P. CLUB.

	THIS interesting organization met at the Parlor
of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT July 30th, 1892. M.
A. Freeze opened the meeting with prayer.
	The Secretary then read the minutes which
were accepted as read.
	Roll called. Correspendence read and several
business matters discussed, among other things
the advisablity of a social picnic and excursion
for the club and their friends, which met the
good pleasure of all present and it was decided
to spend the afternoon of Wednesday, August 10,
at Liberty Park, a programme was arranged for
the occasion.
	Business being completed the programme was
next in order, M. A. Freeze descoursed in a most
interesting manner of her trip to Southern Utah,
New Mexico, and Colorado, giving a very realistic
description of the scenery, the prehistoric relics
and the romantic cliff houses. M. E. Shipp read
an interesting historical paper on "Woman
Physicians" giving a vivid account of the early.
struggles and hardships of the pioneers in this
cause and their status at the present writing. L.
S. Dickinson read an original poem entitled
"Dreams of Childhood."
	G. Woodmansee sang most expressively the
sweet and touching song, "O fair dove, O fond
dove."
	President E. B. Wells gave an interesting
sketch of her trip to San Francisco some account
of which has been published heretofore. C. C.
R. Wells read a timely article entitled, "Why so
many men do not marry." L. G. Richards read
a Biograpical sketch of Sarah G. Richards, a 
glowing tribute to her husband's mother.
	G. L. Brown read from the North American
Review an instructive article on the "Progress of
American Nationalism" by Edward Bellamy.
	Refreshments were  served and partaken of
while discussing the propriety of the club having
an appropriate badge and motto. Adjourned for
one month. Benediction G. Woodmansee.
			E. R. SHIPP, Rec. Sec.


R. S. REPORT.

SALT LAKE STAKE.

	The quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of this Stake was held in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall in this city June 17,
1892, President M. I. Horne presiding.
Meeting opened with the hymn "O happy
souls who pray," prayer was offered by
Mrs. Elizabeth Howard, continued with
singing "O, say what is truth;" minutes of
previous Conference read and approved.
Mrs. Home made the opening address in
which she urged the sisters to cultivate
spiritual gifts, and perform the duties that
pertain to their spiritual welfare as well as
those of a temporal nature, to be saints in-
deed as well as to profess the name of Saint,
and seek to learn and to walk in the ways


[Column 1]

of the Lord; rejoiced that we had no diffi-
culties to settle in our Relief Society,
realized the union that existed and that we
enjoyed the spirit of the Lord in our meet-
ings. Counselor Elmina S. Taylor spoke
of having just recently attended a very in-
teresting Conference at Brigham City; felt
that every branch of the Relief Society in
this Stake should have a representative
present that we may know how the work is
progressing in our surrounding settlements;
"we have the best organization on the
earth, and it takes in the oldest and the
youngest and we know it is the work of the
Lord, let us be careful that we don't fall by
the way, but let us watch ourselves that we
may not be led by the snares that Satan is
laying for the people of God."
	President Bathsheba W. Smith spoke of
the mothers, their influence with children,
thought example better than precept, hoped
we might live in such a manner that the
calamities that are coming upon the earth
causing destruction might be averted from
us through our humility and faithfulness
before the Lord. The following Presidents
made verbal reports of their respective
branches of the Relief Society, Mrs. Eliza-
beth Pixton, Taylorsville, Mrs. Z. V.
Eardley, also made some interesting re-
marks. Mrs. E. Weiler reported 3rd Ward
S. L. City, Mrs. Ann Holt, South Jordan,
Mrs. C. Smith, Draper, Mrs. E. J. Bodell,
Herriman. Each one of the sisters spoke
encouragingly of the work in the ward
where she presided and felt to persevere in
the duties pertaining to the Society.
	President Horne gave good and wise
connsel in regard to storing grain and also
the care to be taken of it, and referred to
the times of famine that were sure to come
in fulfillment of the predictions of the
prophets, quoted from the Scriptures "who
will not take up the sword against his
neighbor must needs flee to Zion for safety,"
also alluded to the saying of President
Heber C. Kimball that, "we would see the
time when wheat would be worth its weight
in gold."
	Conference adjourned to 2 p. m., singing
"The time is far spent." Benediction by
Mrs. Diana Reid.

	Afternoon session: Opened with singing
"Come let us anew &c," prayer by Mrs. E. 
Webb, singing "For the strength of the
hllls we bless thee;" Mrs. E. Howard was
the first speaker, gave an interesting ac-
count of her visit to San Juan Stake, spoke
of the long distances between the settle-
ments, the beauties of the scenery and the
hospitality of the people; also the interest
manifested by the women in all the great
questions of the day.
	Mrs. Mary S. Clark of Farmington oc-
cupied a short time, spoke of the prophecies
being fulfilled in our day; of the necessity
of sacrifice in our daily lives, the overcom-
ing of weaknesses and guarding against
temptations; the need of cultivating our
minds by reading and study as well as our
hearts by the spirit of the Lord; desired to
gain intelligence which is the glory of God.
	President Zina D. H. Young: had re-
cently visited Logan Temple and enjoyed a
season of refreshing; made some remarks
upon the work for the dead in the Lord's
House; the joy and satisfaction it gave in
performing it, spoke of our dear beloved
Sister Eliza with whom she stood side by
side so long in many places, was reminded
of her particularly at the Conference in
Brigham City, related some early reminis-

[Column 2]

cences of the Church and of the Prophet
Joseph and his teachings to the Saints.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells thought we scarcely
realized the magnitude of the work of the
Relief Society organization, and that each
individual member had duties to perform
therewith; the increase of love through our
associating together promotes charity for
one another and all the world, we think
more of one another's welfare and appreciate
each other better than we could have done
outside of being united in this capacity. Re-
lated some items of her visit to the Pacific
Coast recently and of having attended the
Bible class of Mrs. Sarah E. Cooper, the
great speaker and kindergarten organizer,
the interpretation she gave to Nebuched-
nezzar's dream interpreted by Daniel.
Spoke upon the subject of education and
what would be expected of our children in
the future.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball, said "those who do
the most thinking are the best educated; in
the School of the Prophets in Nauvoo, when
Joseph Smith was giving instruction to the
brethren, he told them to make everything
they undertook a subject of prayer. If we
had the faith we ought to have this house
would be filled, we are not required to do
anything impossible; it is true we have
many duties to perform, but let us do those
that are most important, and meet our re-
sponsibilities in a proper manner."
	Mrs. Ada Brim, Cassia Stake; spoke of
the enjoyment she had experienced since
coming to the Young Men's Conference in
meeting with the sisters and hearing the
good instructions, and interesting subjects
that had been treated upon, hoped to take
home with her much that would be bene-
ficial to herself and others in that locality.
	Mrs. Agnes Cutler, President West Jordan
ward spoke of the Hall the Society had
built and of its having been dedicated and
the good influence in their meetings, said
"let us cheer and comfort our sisters who
are passing through severe ordeals and some
of whom are exiles at the present time, by
and bye the dark clouds will roll by.
	President Horne commended the Presi-
dents from the country who had traveled
fifteen or twenty miles to come to the Con-
ference and yet many Presidents who re-
sided in the City were not at the meeting or
came in late; thought we should be awake
to the importance of the work we had en-
gaged in and realize the many duties and
responsibilities of the times in which we
live, and never lose sight of the signs of the
times; and the indications are that we shall
need to secure our wheat and add to it, and
be prepared for any emergency that may
arise, that our children may not want for
bread; thought we should all take reproof
in a kind manner, look at the teachings and
reproofs given by our Savior, and may it
always have a good effect, let us accept it in
the spirit of kindness and profit thereby.
	Conference adjourned for three months to
be held at the same place. Singing, "O, ye
mountains high &c." Benediction by Mrs.
Elizabeth Stevenson.


30
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DISCOVERY DAY.

		TO BE A NATIONAL HOLIDAY.

To His Excellency the Governor of Utah:
	“ALLOW me, as chairman of the executive
commitee of the Columbian Public School
celebration of October 21st, to do myself the


honor to call your attention to the progress
which the movement for this celebration is
making in the country. The history of the
movement is briefly contained in the en-
closed printed statement. May I ask you
to read it?
	"The movement up to this time has made
large progress. Thousands of newspapers
in all parts of the country are commending
the public school celebration editorially in
their localities. Even at this early date 
50,000 schools have expressed their deter-
mination, through their superintendents, to 
celebrate the day. The celebration enjoys the
approval of both President Harrison and ex-
President Cleveland, and the support of the
most distinguished members of Congress.
	"I desire, with deep respect, to submit to
your Excellency the request made in the
name of the whole body of State superin-
tendents of education, that you will give by
special proclamation an official recognition
to Columbus Day in the Territory of Utah.
It is, of course, the governor’s proclamation
which weighs most with the people. If it
is impossible for the governor to make the
day a legal holiday without legislative 
action, the purposes of the day will be
served equally as well by a proclamation in 
which your Excellency simply recommends
to the people an appropriate observance of
the day in their schools and other places of
assembly, without calling for any suspen-
sion of business.
	“Proclamations have already been issued 
by the governors of New York, Minnesota,
Illinois and Florida. Some of these have
been without without legislative action. I
enclose a copy of the proclamation by the 
governor of Minnesota.
	This request from the executive committee
appointed by the superintendents of educa-
tion is made only with the concurrence of the
State superintendent of education in Utah.
	"In the trust that this suggestion may 
commend itself to your judgment and to 
your favor, I have the honor to be, most
respactfully,your obedient servant,"
			FRANCIS BELLAMY,
	Chairman of the Executive Committee.


COL. AND MRS. PARKER.

	  	THE TABERNACLE LECTURE.

	Sunday evening August 7th Colonel
Francis Stuart Parker delivered an interest-
ing and instructive lecture upon “The
Child,” at the Tabernacle in this City,
there were 7000 people present, an
audience all attention and anxious to hear
this distinguished gentleman and lady, for
it was confidently expected that Mrs. Parker
would speak upon the subject of “Dress
Reform,” after her husband had closed.
It was a great disappointment to all that
she did not; the promise however that she
would address the people of this City on
that subject in the near future was made,
and we shall look forward to it with pleas-
ure. Mrs. Parker is a member of the Com-
mittee on Dress Reform appointed by the
National Council of Women, and her ideas
upon the subject will certainly be sugges-
tive and valuable.
	President Angus M. Cannon presided at
the meeting. The choir sang, “Light and
Truth the World is Waking.” Dr. Karl G.
Maeser offered the opening prayer, after
which the choir sang, “God of Israel the
Lord is our Redeemer.”
	Col. Parker was introduced by President


Angus M. Cannon. He prefaced his re-
marks by saying: “The child was the sun-
shine of the world.” His idea of the child
its tendencies, its nature and what its train-
ing should be, happily accords with the
views entertained by most of the people call-
ed Latter-day saints. The theory is all
right the difficulty lies in carrying it out
practically. We think as Col. Parker does
that when children are trained in that way
the world will have entered upon a higher
plane, and the Millenunim will come. But
first of all we argue that children must be
born right; the conditions under which
children are born the environments of the
mother, the maternal influences are the start-
ing point.
	If the people of this generation can be
made to see the necessity of training, it may
have a wholesome effect upon those to be
born in the future, and the few who accept
this higher ideal may leaven the whole in
due process of time. The greatest factor in
the world however is love, the child longs
for it, its nature craves it; not indulgence,
but real true love.
	The really great men of the country were
almost without exception those who came
from the farm or the workshop. Here in
Utah, or at the Institute in Provo he had
 met five hundred of the sharpest thinkers,
most earnest and intelligent teachers and
students that he had ever seen in the United
States, and he had held a great many insti-
tutes in different places. He felt that the
keynote to this was the pioneer life the
struggles for existence, the real practical
work and the love of industry transmitted
to this generation.
	The speaker thought the universe the
expression of God’s thought, and that when
a child turned to nature he asked God for
knowledge of his laws that he might obey
them. He alluded to these valleys set like
emeralds in the mountains, and that no one
could study them without bowing in sincere
admiration to the God who sculptured them
from nature. He referred to the great ad-
vancements made in science in the last cen-
tury or in fact during the last fifty years,
the discoveries that had been practically
worked out and adapted to the use of the
world at large.
	The whole lecture was beautifully illus-
trated with graphic word pictures that
brought the truths elucidated clearly be-
fore the mind’s eye, and will doubtless
make a lasting impression on those who had
the privilege of listening to his earnest elo-
quence. After Col. Parker’s lecture, the
choir sang “Zion Prospers all is Well,”
and Mrs. Parker came forward and stated
that the lateness of the hour prevented her
speaking as per announcement. She said,
“We women have been accused of putting
our brains into our clothes, but now we are
also putting our religion into our clothes.”
	The choir sang: “By Babylon’s Wave,”
and the meeting closed with benediction by
Elder B. H. Roberts.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


AMELIA B. EDWARDS.

	Although by birth and education a Lon-
doner, much of Amelia B. Edward’s early
life was spent in Suffolk, and she ever re-
tained the fondest recollection of summer
holidays spent amid meadows and cornfields.
The quiet, pastoral scenery of that part of
England had peculiar fascinations for her,
long after she had become familiar with the
most picturesque and beautiful parts of
Europe.

[Column 2]
	“It was at Westerfield, near Ipswich, my
own home, that we first met the London
cousin, afterwards to become so famous,
then a girl just iu her teens, and overflow-
ing with spirits. She was already an
author! Few writers indeed can boast of a
literary career beginning in the nursery, but
such was the case with the author of
‘Pharaohs, Fellahs and Explorers.’ When
only nine years old she gained the prize of-
fered for a temperance story in a popular
periodical, to the immense gratification of
her parents, whose only child and idol she
was. In these early days, however, it
seemed as if she was destined rather to win
fame as a musician than an author. Her
girlhood may be said to have been devoted
to the study of music, and at twenty-one she
was an accomplished mistress of harmony,
the pianoforte and the organ. She had also
developed another, and perhaps even more
marked, gift, namely, the great talent for
drawing, which, however, was never per-
sistently cultivated, as had been the case
with music. Hand in hand with pianoforte
practice, often extending over eight hours a
day, Miss Edwards carried on other studies,
more especially that of her own language
and literature. Of both she was a patient
and an ardent student, and the results were
the critical acumen and purity of style which
characterised the author later on. Some
charming little musical stories belong to
this period, and soon appeared her first
novels, ‘My Brother’s Wife,’ and ‘The
Ladder of Life, ’ followed by her great suc-
cess in fiction, ‘Barbara’s History.’ Hence-
forth her life was devoted to literature, her
works being too well known to need enumer-
ation here.
	“Intervals of travel relieved the hard
work of these days, and not the least happy
holiday spent with her was a little pilgrim-
age we made to my native Suffolk. Ever
a passionate lover of nature, the sight of
familiar scenes awakened keenest pleasure.
‘I feel once more a child,’ she would say,
as we strolled amid the meadows and green
lanes in the neighborhood of Needham
Market. A brilliant talker, a genial com-
panion, always in exuberant spirits—these
holidays spent with my cousin were days to
remember. Nothing in the shape of natur-
al beauty escaped her, the lark caroling
above the young wheat, a hedge garlanded
with wild rose and honeysuckle kindled
intense delight. The loveliest scenes of
Italy or Greece could not fascinate her more.
Chance decided Miss Edwards’ career as an
Egyptologist. A wet holiday trip in France
led her, with a friend, to seek sunshine on
the Nile. The result of this improvised
journey was a charming book—the standard
handbook of travelers in Egypt—years of
devotion to Egyptology, and a position
unique in the history of eminent women.”
	The foundation of the Egyptian Ex-
ploration Fund in 1883 was largely due to
her efforts, and she had long been its Hon.
Secretary, in which capacity she carried on
a wide correspondence at home and abroad.
She oontributed articles on Egyptology to
the Encyclopœdia Britannica, and wrote an
account of recent archaeological discoveries
in Egypt for the American edition. Her
last work “Pharaohs, Fellah’s, and Ex-
plorers” appeared towards the end of last
year. Miss Edwards was a contributing
member of various Oriental Congresses, and
a member of the Biblical Archæological
Society and of the Society for the Promotion
of Hellenic Studies. In America, at the
centenary celebration of Columbia College,

[Column 3]
the degree of L. H. D. was confered on her,
Professor Tyndal and the Provost of Queen’s
College, Oxford, being the only other British
subjects similarly honored. She also held
the hon. degree of L. L. D. from Smith’s
College, the first time such degree had been
conferred on a woman in America.
			MISS M. BETHAM EDWARDS,
	In Bristol Western Daily Press.


PREHISTORIC MAN IN AMERICA.

			[Concluded.]
	J. W. Powell, in the Forum, says: “No
fragment of evidence remains to support
the figment of theory that there was an
ancient race of Mound Builders superior in
culture to the North American Indians.”
He also takes the view of Morgan, that the
early writers extoled the skill of the
sculptors of the mound building period.
They found carvings of birds and mammals
supposed to represent foreign species with
great accuracy; but these very objects which
they praised so highly have been re-ex-
amined and found so crude that, though a
bird may well be identified as such, it can
rarely be recognized as any specific bird of
this or any other country.
	There are many things found in some of
the mounds that do not belong to the origi-
nal builders. When white men first came
to this country European goods were traded
to the Indians, and these in time were buried
in the mounds made for this purpose; so to-
day many beautiful things are found that
are wrongfully termed the work of a pre-
historic race. Mr. Powell thinks that the
stone dwellings of which but ruins only
remain were built not longer ago than three
hundred years. He says there is no neces-
sity to search for lost and wonderful peoples
to account for any known facts. He further
states “that both the mound culture and the
pueblo culture have had a lowly beginning,
a slow, gradual development, and a modern
culmination. Both were at the height of
their glory when the oontinent was dis-
covered by Europeans, and nowhere do we
find evidence of peoples other than the
North American Indians and their ances-
tors.”
	Mr. Powell thinks that in the archæ-
ologic remains found in the United States
there is no evidence that man had learned
to use bronze or iron. There is no culture
found higher than that of the “stone age.”
He concludes his article by stating that the
graphic art on bark, bone, shell, or stone
never reached a higher stage than simple
picture making.
	Professor Putnam, of Harvard, and cura-
tor of the Peabody Institute, does not agree
with this theory. He has given up his life
to this study and is one of the best living
authorities upon this subject. He thinks
there was a prehistoric race who were not
the American Indians.
	In studying the remains in Central
America we find a race who had gotten
beyond mere household architecture, and
were rising to the sphere of art. That
statues such as are fonnd were produced by
a race not differing in descent or essential
habits from the northern Iroquois or other
Indian tribes seems simply incredible.
Higginson says in his history of the United
States: “In Central America we find the
remains of a race which had begun to busy
itself with the very highest department of
art, the delineation of the human figure;
and which had attained to grace and vigor,


if not to beauty.  The stately stone heads
of Yucatan, the arch and spirited features
 depicted on the Maya incense burners, the 
fine face carved in sandstone which is now 
in New York, all indicate a sphere of 
development utterly beyond that of those
northern Indians whose utmost achievement
consists in some graceful vase like that
found in Burlington, Vt."
	When we speak of the discovery of
America we always mean the arrival of
Europeans, forgetting that there was pro-
bably a time when Europe itself was dis-
covered by Asiatics, and that for those
Asiatics it was almost as easy to discover
America.  All that is necessary, even at
this day, to bring a Japanese junk to the
Pacific coast of North America is that it
should be blown out to sea and there lose
its rudder; the first mishap has often occnr-
ed, the second casualty has almost always
followed, and the Japan stream has done the
rest.
	Charles W. Brooks, of San Francisco,
has a record of no less than a hundred such
instances, and there is no reason why
similar events should not have been oc-
curring for centuries-  Behring strait is
but little wider than the English channel,
and it is as easy to make the passage from
Asia to America as from France to England:
and indeed easier for half the year, when
Behring strait is frozen.  Besides all this,
both geology and botany indicate that the
separation between the two continents did
not always exist.  Dr. Asa Gray, our high-
est botanical authority, long ago pointed
out the extraordinary identity between the
Japanese flora and that of northern United
States, as indicating a period when the two
continents were one.   It is an argument
difficult to resist, for surely flowers do not
cross the ocean in junks, or traverse the
frozen straits upon the ice.  The colonization
of America from Asia was thus practicable
at any rate, and that far more easily than
any approach from the European side.  The
simple races on each side of Behring strait,
which now communicate with each other
freely, must have done the same from very
early times.
	The fact may yet be established that the
aboriginal of America was contemporary
with the mammoth; but it is now only pro-
bable.  It is still necessary to close the
subject of prehistoric man in America with
an interrogation point.—Mary Morrison.
In Haerth and Hall.
	Grand Rapids, Mich.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WORLD'S FAIR NOTES.

	The Government of Mexico will exhibit
at the World's Fair a large and valuable
collection of Aztec relics.

	Butterflies to the number of 150,000 will
be shown in the Pennsylvania exhibit at
the World's Fair.  The collection is said to
be the most complete and finest in the
world.

	A Sioux squaw, living near San Diego,
California, will exhibit in the Woman's
building at the World's Fair a dress of deer
skins, richly embroidered with sixteen
pounds of beads.  She worked for two years
in making the garment.  From the San
Diego Mission will be exhibited a valuable 
collection of fine needle work by Indian
girls.


The women of New York State will fur-
nish and decorate the library room in the
Woman's building at the World's Fair.
Plans are perfected to make the furnish-
ings very elaborate and tasteful.  The room
will contain as complete a collection as is
possible to gather of works written by
women.
	Mrs. Paul and Mrs. Wise, Lady Man-
agers for Virginia, [together with their
auxiliary, board, have undertaken to raise
$16,000 for the Virginia building at the
World's Fair, which is to be a full-sized
reproduction of Washington's home at
Mount Vernon.  To raise the money the
women of Virginia are selling certificates of
membership in the Mount Vernon Associa-
tions at $1 each.  They are also asking the
county and city supervisors, councils, etc.,
for levies of one cent per capita, and are
giving entertainments of various kinds.


"MRS. EDNA CHENEY, of Boston, was
the intimate friend of Louisa Alcott, who
was, without doubt, the best juvenile writer
America has ever produced. Miss Alcott
bequeathed to Mrs. Cheney upon her death
many of her original manuscripts. Mrs.
Cheney is much beloved in Boston, where
she lives. Her essays frequently appear in
the New England Magazine, Current Litera-
ture and the Century.”


OBITUARY.

	Sister Orelia Christine Hanson was born June
22nd, 1849, in Elling, Swenborg, Denmark.  She
died at Colonia, Diaz, Chihuahua, Mexico.
	Sister Hansen emigrated to Utah about nine
years ago, residing for a time in Newton, Cache
County, afterwards removing to Manti, where she
labored in the Temple for nearly two years.  She
was also a teacher in the South Ward Relief
Society, performing all her duties faithfully and
well.
	She was for many years a great sufferer from
lung disease, but she lived and died a faithful
Latter-day Saint, enduring all her sufferings with
patience and fortitude.
						ELIZABETH CASTO,
		President, Manti South Ward Relief Society.
						REBECCA WAREHAM,
			President North Ward Relief Society.


TRIBUTE TO A FAITHFUL SAINT.

	Sister Lydia Long died on the 25th of June 1892,
quite suddenly, she had not been feeling very
well for some time, but expressed herself as be-
ing much better on the day she departed, expir-
ing while her son and his wife, had gone out to
do a few errands. She was laid away the next
day as the weather was warm and the house much
exposed to the sun.
	The officers and some of the teachers of the
13th Ward attended the funeral; which was held
in the 22nd Ward where she of late had been liv-
ing with her youngest son.  Her age was sixty-
nine years and five months.  Born on the 13th of
January 1823 in England did not learn what part
of the country.  Bishop Empey and Counselors
were there, also Brother A. M. Musser, all speak-
ing of her with much respect, testifying of her
patient and humble spirit in all the walks of life.
She was also a good and faithful teacher in the 
13th Ward Relief Society.
	Though the rooms were small they were well


filled by relatives and friends.  The Bishop re-
gretted that she was not taken to the 13th Ward
Assembly Rooms.  Poor Lydia she looked happy
in death surrounded with lovely flowers.
								E. H. G.


MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p.m.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Mlillinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed,
Feathers curled, etc.  Stamping done to order. But.
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
Three doors west of Theatre.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

[Logo of the Rio Grande Western Railway]
Standard Gauge
Railway!
THOUGH THE
ROCKY MOUNTAINS!
Choice of Three Distinct Routes,
AND THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT RAILROAD SCENERY
IN THE WORLD.
Two Fast Express Trains Daily
EACH WAY BETWEEN
OGDEN, SALT LAKE AND DENVER.
ELEGANT RECLINING CHAIR CARS!
Free of Charge.
Direct Connections made in Union Depots.
THE MOST THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED RAILWAY
IN THE WEST.
D.C. DODGE, A.E.WELBY, J.H. BENNETT,
Genl. Mgr. Supt. G. F. & P. A.

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired on short notice.  Orders [---]
the country promptly responded to.
AVD JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

Vol. 21.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1, 1892.		No. 5.


CONTENTS.
	Farewell—L. M. H.  In Rural England—A
Story. Women’s News—Alma Priscilla Alden.
Appreciative—N. P. L.  The First Primary—
Minerva E. Knowlton.  R. S. Reports.  W. S. A.
Report.  A Pioneer Address—Mrs. Electa Bullock.
Modern Advertising—Thomas Warwick.  Pri-
mary Stake Secretaries.
	EDITORIAL:—The Industrial Problem.  Mrs.
Parker and Miss Hefron.  Edmund Russell.
Chautauqua Assembly.  Editorial Notes. Ladies’
Semi Monthly Meetings. Stockholders’ Meeting
—Gladys Woodmansee, Sec.  Items From the
North—Mrs. M. S. Anderson. Nature—M. E. K.
	POETRY:—Arouse—Genevieve Lucile Browne.
Will You Come When I Am Dying—Lucy.
Mother’s Birthday—Alofa.


[Column 1]
AROUSE.

MANKIND, to whom the gracious God has given
	The fairest gifts contained in Heaven and earth,
His vast sublime benignity has striven
	To make thee well contented from thy birth
	With his full bounties, and to prove thee worth
These blessings, freely placed thee on thine
	honor,
	Now hast thou surely brought about a dearth
Of virtue in the scales of the great Donor.
For slowly hast thou sunk in sin and error;
	The second step how easily the first
One follows, ’till thou look’st about in terror,
	To find thyself within a region cursed,
	The victim of a tortuous evil thirst;
Until, sore rent with an insane-desiring,
	The soul, its own perdition’s bonds to burst,
With all its strength the being fall’n is firing.
But presently the sweet soul’s voice grows
	fainter,
	And dies away unto eternal space,
And then thou givest o’er to thine attainter,
	The sensual, a[-]l thy pure and radiant grace;
	For guiling Sin, half veiling what is base,
The claims of life and love is undermining,
	That thou ere long may’st look upon his face,
A godless beauty in his shame defining.
And then the soul is stifled and is deadened,
	Submerged in pleasures gross and sorrow’s
	stream,
And when a sigh steals o’er the senses leadened,
	Like soft and sad reproaches in a dream,
	The wilful heart turns from the heavenly theme,
Responding, “What has God in goodness given
	To me? I’ve naught to lose nor yet redeem—
My soul has ever been with sorrow driven.

“My life has been an unfulfilled desiring,
	A restless search for what will satisfy;
Vain pleasure, naught but transient hope inspir-
	ing,
	Seems but a cruel phantom passing by,
	And God gives not to me for what I sigh;
So will I drift, and if I chance to please me
	With Sense’s charmers, that around me lie,
Whate’er they be, oh,therewith may I ease me.”
And askest thou what has our Maker given
	To thee—ah, know he gives to all mankind
The fairest gifts contained in earth and Heaven,
	That for us all his goodness has designed.
	He made the earth that thou a home shouldst
	find,
Adorned with rarest plants and fruits and flowers,
	The towering, misty mountains, richly lined
With hordes of treasures that may all be ours.

[Column 2]
Thou hast dominion over all that liveth
	And moveth on the earth and in the sea;
The Seasons, and the rain and snow He giveth
	To moist’ and fertilize the earth for thee,—
	The Sun’s great golden glory graciously
Is poured from out the Heavens in abundance,
	At night, the Moon’s soft silver—faithfully
All nature serves thee with her rich redundance.
And thou hast life and strength to onward bear
	thee
	And bend all that thou needest to thy will,
Thy senses’ sweet endowments, which have made
	thee,
	When rightly used, a power thy wants to fill.
	Thou hast an intellect, sublimer still,
Than any gift that governs life or motion,
	Which can thy deeds with depth and greatness
	thrill,
And steer thee wisely through life’s rolling ocean.
Thou hast a soul, that fills thee with a passion,
	Too pure and nobly wrought to be earth born,
That wakens to thy life in fervent fashion,
	The first rare radiance of a fairer morn
	Than e’er the breast terrestial may adorn,—
A soul that thrills thee with the fires of heaven,
	Responsive to the Infinite, they warn
Thee to retrieve thy being, folly-riven.
Then sigh not that thy life hath naught but sor-
	row
	To break the prairie of a desert waste,
That thou from degradation’s depths must bor-
	row
	That which to render it unto thy taste,—
	But live in yielding to that prowess chaste,
With which the intellect and soul hath crowned
	thee,
	Nor let false pleasure, painted and debased,
Her petty lies and larcenies e’er wound thee.
Oh, Mankind, rise, and breathe the air’s diffusion.
	Exhaled by virtue and simplicity;—
As Nature follows crime with retribution,
	So will she to the noble gracious be.
	Then Reason’s light doth teach thee well to
	see,
An earnest life will yield the deepest pleasures,
	The highest uses of thine entity
Will win thee trust and love, man’s greatest
	treasures.
	GENEVIEVE LUCILE BROWNE.


[column 1]
FAREWELL.

	“A WORD that must be and hath been.”
If in the vocabulary of the English
language a word can be found which has
wrung tears from mortal eyes and called
forth keen emotion from the heart—which
has caused that tender chord to vibrate,
which binds together the sons and daughters
of Adam’s race, it is the word “Farewell.”
This word when spoken by a friend to
whom we are bound by the strongest ties of
friendship and affection, informing us that
we shall not meet again this side of the re-
surrection morn, awakens in our bosoms
feelings only known by those who have ex-
perienced them.  Should we stand, beside
the deep waters of the ocean, where day by
day thousands are called to recognize some
fond friend rescued from the yawning deep,

[column 2]
while others are called to witness some relic
snatched from the bosom of the rolling bil-
lows, informing the anxious beholder that a
cherished object sleeps beneath them, we
should perhaps gain some idea of the feel-
ing wrought by the word, Farewell. Here
stand the parent, the child, the husband
and wife, brother and sister, friend and
companion—about to experience the sorrow
of separation.  The proud vessel is ready to
take from the parental embrace, the polar
star towards which true affection has ever
been directed.  Sympathy and love swell
the bosom with anguish; tears, sad tears,
 are falling from the eye—but Farewell,
Farewell is spoken, and the scene of parting
is known and felt in all its intensity.  Hear
the thrilling words, “God bless you—Fare-
well, Farewell.” How often does the
breeze that comes from England’s shores
and America’s coasts, inform us of the
broken affection which the one yet simple
word has caused, and the many hearts it has
crushed!
	Go to the bedside of the fond mother
whom death, the visitor of mortality,is soon
to take from earth; bitter tears are flowing,
telling plainly the anguish of their hearts.
But the summons has come and the dear
one must go.  Oh! how heart-rending—
how touching her last words.  Husband,
children, dear ones all—Farewell! What
heart so hard, so devoid of sympathy as not
to be touched by a scene like this, and how
often have we witnessed them?  How often
has the word, Farewell,fellen upon our ears
more solemn than the funeral knell!
	Today we meet our friends, embrace them
in the arms of brotherly love—rehearse the
events of by-gone days, when the rays of
love encircled the brow, and the heart found
a residence and a home.  We recall fresh to
the memory our days of childhood around
which linger a halo of joy and innocence
never to be forgotten; but tomorrow we bid
them Farewell.  Not only do our friends bid
usadieu, but all nature animate and inanimate
is constantly bidding us Farewell; change
and decay are busy.  Time is carrying us
forward to our eternal home—yes,—“Home,
sweet home.”

	“No cloud those regions know,
	Forever bright and fair;
	For sin the source of mortal woe,
	Can never enter there.”

	How joyful the thought that such a home
is ours! Forever shall we surround the
throne of celestial glory, to join in the song
of redeeming love with the ransomed Uni-
verse of the Almighty God; never, never
more to speak the sorrowful, solemn word,
Farewell.
						L. M. H.


In old age one sees farther and clearer
than younger people do.  It is like living
on a hilltop, from whence the ups and
downs of life appear in their just propor-
tions, and every way one looks one beholds,
as it were, “the crooked made straight, and
the rough places plain.”—Miss Mulock.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XX.
	When the door closed after Rob Har-
rison Esquire the "literary light" and his
friend Everhard, Anna, drawing a long
breath as a sigh of relief, said to her cousin,
"here is another obstacle in my pathway,
just when the coast seemed clear, and I felt
myself independent, this relative my
mother's cousin comes forward as a pro-
tector; pray, how many do I need?"
	"And so Anna you are not pleased with
your mother's cousin, [she did not repeat
to her that he had been her mother's lover;]
one would think a relative on that side would
have been most welcome."
	"Jane,  cousin mine, he assumes too
much; he comes patronizing me first of all,
before he knows anything of me."
	"No doubt Anna, Burke and Hemenway
have told him what a child you are in mat-
ters of importance beyond music, dancing,
dress and manner. But, soberly, is he not
very handsome?"
	"Yes, well, passably so, but strange in-
deed that you should notice that, you who
never could see anything to admire in men,
not even in the good old Doctor, who loves
you so devotedly. I am astonished; there
must be something extraordinary in Rob
Harrison when you can admire him."
	"O, I don’t know as to that—he has a
fine face and wonderful eyes, very much
like your own, and yours are like your
mother's I suppose. By the way, is it not
strange there is no painting of your mother
in the hall at the Castle? Did it ever occur
to you?"
	"Never, I scarce ever heard her name
mentioned, old Mrs. Hess our former head
housekeeper spoke of her sometimes, but
Mrs. Burke was not installed in the house-
hold in her day, and she always protested
against every thing Hess said or did."
	"Cousin Anna, you did not invite Mr.
Harrison to call again or to come to the
Castle when we return; it was a discourtesy
on our part, or on yours, for neither of the
gentlemen seemed to have eyes for me."
	"How could I think of anything with
him staring at me, in that dreadful way;
but I suppose he'll come again, to see if I
need his advice, or protection forsooth."
	"Don't Anna, you may need both, none
of us know what lies in store, and the
friendship of a truly good man is rare and
that Mr. Harrison is an exceptionally good
man I feel tolerably sure."
	"Wait cousin, until you hear the Doctor's
opinion, or have you had an intuition? If so
I have no more to say; you are invariably
right in your presentiments."
	The girls talked on and on of the strange
visit until joined by Clair and others, and
for the time the subject was waived, but
not forgotten, and it was not likely to be
either, for his destiny and theirs were linked
and interwoven, and the forebodings of
Jane Conway were not without foundation.
	The days that followed were like others
at that season of gaiety except for the
visits of Mr. Harrison, who came often
enough to learn the status of affairs. He
also heard from the outside how things
were moving in reference to Clair and the
title, though he kept these matters to him-
self except as he gave fatherly advice to the
young man, who took kindly his sug-
gestions, and profited by them. Ere long
it was apparent to Anna, who was becoming
more and more versed in affairs of the heart,
that her cousin or uncle, as she had de-

[Column 2]

cided to designate him by his particular re-
quest, was deeply in love with her feminine
cousin Jane. She had not dared to mention
it, though she had been strongly tempted
to tell her strong-minded cousin, that it was
dangerous to receive Mr. Harrison's at-
tentions, etc; but how could she speak to
her of it, knowing of her engagement and
also how reluctant she had ever been to ac-
knowledge that even Dr. Bland was in love
with her. And so she passed it by, but
gossips would not, and soon Lady Walton,
hearing it talked of, sounded Lady Anna
who confessed to her Ladyship that she had
become convinced of the fact.
	"And what is this very dignified, con-
scientious young woman going to do with
two lovers at once?" remarked Lady Wal-
ton with some asperity, for she had not
forgotten that Miss Conway knew of her
interview with Sir Edward and it had often
nettled her when she came in contact with
her.
	"I have not the slightest idea, but know-
ing her uprightness in all matters, I am
sure she will do exactly right."
	Lady Walton was nonplussed and drop-
ped the subject for the time, but she watch-
ed Miss Conway jealously, but closely as
she scrutinized her conduct, she could find
nothing to condemn.
	At last the gay season drew toward its
close and the young ladies felt it was time
to return to their country home. Matters
had been pretty well adjusted in the mean
time and Clairville Hilliard was likely to
get the benefit of the title unless something
unknown came in the way. Dr. Bland was
growing very impatient of the long delay,
for such it seemed to him, though he
busied himself making all the final prepar-
ations in his home, and in attending to
every duty in detail pertaining to the estate
of Sir Edward, and the poor and sick all the
country round.
	Finally the season really closed, that is,
Lady Walton gave an eleborate ball as she
knew it was expected by her set, and Mait-
land's fiancee was the belle of the ball, and
so his mother had intended it should be
from the first. She wore her favorite color,
sea-green, and pearls were her only orna-
ment in the way of jewelry though her
dress was nearly covered with the most ex-
quisite lace; she was like a sea-nymph; her
wonderful golden hair was arranged so as
to display its magnificence and ornamented
with pearls in the most perfect taste; when
she danced it was as though she flew fairy-
footed or glided in air; she was so unlike
other young ladies that she could not fail to
be attractive wherever she went; there was
a naivete, a freshness too about her that was
delightfully charming. Uncle Rob as he
watched her in the great hall gliding about
was as one enchanted, it carried him back
to the time when his cousin had made his
heart beat rapturously, and he walked out
into the fresh air to regain his bewildered
senses; some one else was in the same or a
similar mood, for he saw a few steps away
from him a woman pacing up and down as
though in deep thought. She was dressed
in pure white, a mantle trimmed with swan's
down thrown loosely over her head almost
concealed her face, but he recognized Jane
Conway, and wondered why she should
wish to withdraw from the gay crowd. She
caught sight of him almost at the same
moment and it was impossible to avoid
speaking. Both felt it, a sort of unwelcome
encounter, they were anxious to avoid each
other, yet fate would have it so. Mr. Har-

[Column 3]

rison seeing the dilemma made bold to ask
why she was out in the night air, was she
not fearful of taking cold in such a light
costume? She replied freezingly, and he
urged her to avoid the damp or she would
scarcely be equal to the journey contempla-
ted so soon. And he added,as if by way of
drawing her into conversation, "would you
mind telling me how you like the country
residence of your late uncle, and what there
is of interest in the neighborhood?"
	"O, as to that you can come and see for
yourself, there is a fine park and plenty of
game in the hunting season, and I've no
doubt that would suit you as it does most
Englishmen."
	"I was wondering if you would think it
worth your while to invite me for any season,
the hunting season is a long way off, I
might be far enough away before that time
comes."
	Jane scarce knew what reply to make
but added, "No doubt my cousins will wish
you to come soon, they will be lonely after
the gaieties of London, there is no society
there, that is it is a long way to the nearest
neighbor's and in fact we never have visited.
My uncle did not mingle with the people in
that vicinity, and consequently we do not
know them."
	"Then when you return do you expect to
live in retirement after such a round of
pleasure as your cousins have kept up the
last few months?"
	"I scarcely know; there will be some
changes in the house I presume, it will be
positively necessary if Clair succeeds to the
title, you must know better than I do, I've
never known much of such matters, my life
was very quiet until I came to stay at my
uncle's and since then so much has happened
that I wonder how I have kept my senses."
	"This is most interesting, pray enlighten
me. I am totally uninformed of matters in
English country life anywhere, though
when a boy (and that was long ago) I knew
Devonshire pretty well, a charming pastoral
country. But really we must not linger here,
not only the damp air, but Anna might be
looking for you—are you not her chaperone
tonight?" And, lowering his voice: "I wish
you were mine instead, I have more need of
one, unused as I am to society." Miss Con-
way affected not to hear him and hurried to-
wards the house, but met Clair in the hall-
way as they were about to ascend the stair-
case, who boy-like, unthinkingly, when he
saw the two coming in together mischievous-
ly exclaimed aloud, "what would the Doc-
tor say?"
	It was too bad to spoil this pleasant lit-
tle interview by stern facts. Clair was inno-
cent enough about it though Rob Harrison
had not heard of the Doctor except as Miss
Hilliard had spoken of him, and had not
once suspected he was more than the guard-
ian of his cousin, but his suspicions were
aroused now, not that he had fallen in love
seriously—how could he, a confirmed old
bachelor! He had solemnly vowed to remain
single and yet he wanted society, woman's
companionship; he had been a mother's boy,
all she had, and they had been all in all to
each other; she had stood by him when his
heart had been torn as it were by his cousin's
precipitous miserable marriage; they went
away together afterwards, and his mother
died abroad, he had wandered here and
there seeking fame—or solace, and now had
become more or less interested in these un-
protected young people for whom he felt
a sort of fatherly care; he was inclined to be
forgiving in his nature, and now that Sir


Edward was dead he cherished no ill-will
but lavished affection freely upon the daugh-
ter, remembering too she was the nearest
relative he had. He had guessed something
of her life through the association of the
past few weeks, and realized what an ad-
vantage, a blessing in fact, it was to have a
young woman like Miss Conway to watch
over her; and at times he felt as if he
would not leave England again until he
saw her fairly settled, happily married.
He was not sure that he approved of Mait
land Walton, and he certainly disapproved
of Lady Walton’s influence, and it partly
reconciled him to their going away, know-
ing Anna would be less in her society.
	Since Clair’s playful reference to the
Doctor, he had serious thoughts, whether
there could have been any meaning in his
words, but he would not inquire lest his
meaning should be misconstrued, for he nev-
er even imagined himself in love, and as for
Jane, he knew she was not, and fancied it
would be a difficult matter for her to fall in
love with an ordinary man—and to him all
men were more or less ordinary, for he had
seen the world and mingled much with man-
kind. Really he knew very little of women,
and therefore judged Miss Conway imper-
vious to the grand passion.
	All the winter long Miss Conway had
been doing dainty work, such as ladies take
delight in previous to entering upon the
new relations of married life, but after Mr.
Harrison’s frequent visits the work lagged
and was put aside. She had never seen a
man with such a conversational power or
such a wonderful fund of information. He
had traveled extensively and never tired of
talking of countries and people, all new to
his attentive listeners. The final leave-tak-
ing came at last and Rob Harrison had to
say good-bye to his new-found friends. He
kissed Anna as of course he had a right to
do; but how should he say good-bye to her
cousin! He considered it and determined to
be brave, he would at least kiss her hand,
but he did not get opportunity, for the party
were ready at a veiy early hour in the morn-
ing and were all wrapped in furs and gloved.
He embraced Anna tenderly, kissed her on
both cheeks and turning to her cousin said
a simple good-bye, though he longed to say
a great deal more. Clair urged him to
come as soon as they were fairly settled and
show him what would be needed to make
the place habitable for,said he, “the old place
is only a tumbled down ruin now, and not
fit to invite respectable people to visit, though
the surroundings are magnificent.”
	Mr. Harrison was in hopes the ladies
would add their entreaties to Clair’s but Miss
Conway was absolutely silent on the subject,
and Anna only faintly echoed Clair’s last
words “we shall expect you.” The coach
drove away, and walking slowly toward
his hotel Rob Harrison reasoned with him-
self, and wondered why he should care
about this plain young woman that seemed
to pass unnoticed by all for he had not heard
from any one of the many gentlemen who
had spoken so often of his cousin Lady
Anna, one single word of Miss Conway.
And yet he knew she was a very superior
person. He felt it very strongly and
wondered other men were not also aware of
her superiority.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


False friendship, like the ivy, decays and
ruins the walls it embraces, but true friend-
ship gives new life and animation to the
object it supports.—Burton.


WILL YOU COME WHEN I AM DYING?

	WILL you come when I am dying?
		Fold my weary hands in thine,
	'Till time’s wheels in their swift flying,
		Backward turn to days lang syne?
	Sing to me those songs of childhood,
		Trill them o’er in sweetest tone,
	’Till loved voices long since silent,
		Blend and mingle with thine own?
	Fair soft arms around me twining,
		Tender smile and fond caress,
	Give each dark cloud silver lining,
		Scatter cares that long opprest.
	Hope’s bright star gilds plainest duty,
		Infant’s joys and childish fears,
	Youth developed into beauty,
		Come as backward roll the years.
	Light from heaven’s clear vault shining,
		Penetrates thro’ ages mold,
	Brings again life’s dewy morning,
		Radiant with green and gold.
								LUCY.


MOTHER'S BIRTHDAY.

DEAR mother, ah! that saintly name
	Makes each fond impulse start;
Afar or near, 'tis e'en the same,
	Soft spoken from the heart.
Dear mother! tender thoughts of thee
	Will crowd our memories still,
Though we have crossed the mighty sea,
	To teach the Master's will.

The hands that never weary grew—
	By love's fond impulse fired;
The face so pleasant, kind and true,
	By us so much admired;
The loving heart which offered prayers
	In our behalf each day,
In fancy greets us everywhere,
	To cheer our lonely way.

Near half a century now hath fled
	Since thou an infant lay—
On rapid wings the years have sped,
	The moments passed away.
They have not idly passed we know,
	For thou, dear, noble one,
Among the humble, weak and low
	Thy willing work hast done;

Hast taught thy children faith and love
	And hope and charity—
Hast given all praise to Him above
	In sweet humility.
Then has thy mission been in vain?
	Ah, surely, surely no!
For thou a blessed crown will gain—
	A world of joy will know.

Thy birthday! may it bring thee peace—
	And each succeeding year, 
May heaven's gifts for thee increase—
	May nothing cause thee fear;
And many, many glad returns—
	May you, dear mother, see;
And live until your spirit yearns
	From all life's cares to flee.
			ALOFA.
SAMOA, July 1, 1892.


WOMEN’S NEWS.
    As the days pass on the thought comes to
each one of us how great our loss in the
death of Mrs. D’Evelyn! Not only did she
perform the duties of the ass’t recording
secretary dutifully and well, but as the
chairman of the visiting committee and one
of the number on press-work and entertain-


ment; to the cares imposed by each was she
ever ready to respond in true, hearty good
fellowship and lend her sympathetic and
kind co-operation. The little orphaned ones
so pitifully left are on the ranch with the
little babe of Mrs. Parkhurst, where their
tiny hearts and lives bereft of maternal af-
fection can draw in that love springing
from nature’s own, whose silent truths can
teach them much that’s beautiful and
grand. The lovely floral tributes to Mrs.
D’Evelyn have been photographed and the
club contemplates sending one to her
mother so far away in Ireland.
 
	In Kate Field's Washington there ap-
peared in a recent number, Mrs. Charlotte
Perkins Stetson’s article on “Masculine,
Feminine, and Human.” This article is
spoken of as being intensely interesting and
written in a masterly style.
 
	The annual convention of P. C.W. P. A.,
will be held in San Francisco on the days of
the 21, 22, and 23 of September—at which
time the election of new officers will take
place.
			ALMA PRISCILLA ALDEN.
	SAN FRANCISCO, Aug. 1892.


APPRECIATIVE.

	The following is from a gentleman in the
South who received a complimentary of our
paper recently:
Mrs. E. B. Wells:
	This is only intended to convey to you the
information that the WOMAN'S EXPONENT came
to hand by the last mail and rest asured I am much
pleased with the work, and sincerely wish that a
copy of it was in the hand of every person in-
terested in the welfare of the human family.
And in the mean time believe me, most respect-
fully,
			N. P. L.
July 26, 1892.

THE FIRST PRIMARY.

Editor WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Dear Sister:—It is fourteen years today since
the first Primary Association was organized
in the church with Sister Aurelia S. Rogers
of Farmington, President. Today being
our annual meeting day, we held a meet-
ing and reorganized, the officers now be-
ing Miss Nettie Abbott President, Miss
Mary Millard and Mrs. M. E. Knowlton
Counselors, Miss Phebe McLaughlin Secre-
tary.
	There were twelve visiting sisters present, 
Stake Pres't Rogers and Counselors Hess
and Clark being among the number. We
had an excellent time. Our programme
consisted of songs, dialogues, recitations,
questions and answers on the creation, and
a review of simple Bible Stories, gotten up
for the occasion, short speeches by a num-
ber of the sisters, and altogether we had a
time long to be remembered, not the least
pleasing feature of the entertainment being
the response to roll call by sentiment,
four years old darlings answering in
this way.
	There was also a letter read from Sister
Lula Greene Richards regretting her in-
ability to be present at our meeting, and ex-
pressive of love and good feeling for the
little ones. Very Respectfully,
			MINERVA E. KNOWLTON.
	FARMINGTON, Aug. 11, 1892.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street,
second gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	SEPTEMBER 1, 1892.


THE INDUSTRIAL PROBLEM.

	WHEN one comes directly upon the scene of a
recent strike, it becomes a positive necessity to
enter into the subject more or less; one can
scarcely be neutral in opinion if one may in ex-
pression. Being specially interested in the sub-
ject on general principles, and as one of the im-
portant questions of the day, and having relatives
in the immediate vicinity of one of the terrible
strikes (the one in Northern Idaho) it has been a
study with the writer for the past few weeks, and
reading what is said from time to time in the
papers, one can scarcely help forming an opinion
of some sort in the premises. But here we are
right on the spot where the thickest of the trouble
occurred, and having it from the people them-
selves who are most deeply concerned and have
suffered from the consequences. Perhaps after
some days' sojourn we may be able out of all we
see and hear to get a clear understanding and to
write something for the readers of the EXPONENT.
	The soldiers are here and the prisoners too (or
were), though some are to be tried to-day or are
taken over for trial in Coeur d' Alene City where
the lawyers and judges have already collected to
hold court.
	The citizens of Wallace and vicinity have some
sense of security since the arrival of the troops,
previous to that there was none for either life or
property. No one knew, however innocent of
offence in thought, word, or deed he might be, at
what moment he would be shot, or ordered to
leave the town. The inhabitants were terror-
stricken; men with families, ordered to go, were
left without the least choice and women and
children were at the mercy of the strikers. Some
men did not go and the troops barely arrived in
time to protect them.
	We have not space in this issue for any ex-
tended notice of the situation, but in our next
ssue will have a paper giving some of the real
facts and incidents, meantime we give an extract
from the London Times we culled en route.
	"The labor troubles in the United States have
taken a form not to be distinguished from civil
war. We cannot yet venture to think the danger
is ended. It is small wonder that the course of
affairs is watched with alarm by those in whose
memory the events of 1877 are still fresh."
	Another quotation from the Chronicle of
London, August 20, says:
	"The American people had the most splendid
inheritance ever conferred on a nation, and they
have grossly misused it. Hordes of vulgar office-
seekers have been permitted to fatten on the pub-
lic body; great cities are given over to men who
ought to be in prison; and millions on millions of
acres of public lands are given with a light heart
to railway corporations, which now threaten to
strangle the republic in their octopus-like grasp.
This is really practical anarchism, which ruins


states, compared with which the anarchism of a
handful of desperate families is almost innocuous.
That is the general moral of a labor war, but
there are special questions relating to railway
and convict labor. It is simply monstrous that
capitalists are allowed to use convict labor, so
monstrous that no self-respecting community
could possibly tolerate it."
	WALLACE, IDAHO, August 23, 1892.


MRS. PARKER AND MISS HEFRON.

	ON Wednesday we had a very interesting call
from Mrs. Parker, of Chicago, and Miss Hefron,
of Utica, N. Y., two ladies who have been at Provo
assisting Col. Parker in the summer school
lectures there for teachers. The Colonel returned
home several days before his wife and Miss
Hefron. We were very much disappointed that
Mrs. Parker could not give her lecture upon
Dress Reform here in the Tabernacle, but she
assured us that it would be a pleasure for her to
come again, and as she had an engagement in
Kansas for October she will likely come as far as
Salt Lake; at least so she thinks now, unless
something unforeseen prevents her.
	Mrs. Parker has been quite strongly impressed,
since coming here, with many of the things which
have come under her observation, or been
brought to her notice. She talked freely with the
writer, asking questions about the early pioneer
life, and the conditions affecting women and
children under the law; and she has taken home
with her many books treating upon the doctrines
and principles of the Church, its history and
special matters of importance.
	People like Colonel Parker and his wife, Presi-
dent Elliot and wife, and others of intelligence
and liberal views who come here without
prejudice and stay long enough to see for them-
selves, cannot fail but do good by the impressions
they will make concerning the position here, and
by and by this people and their work in build-
ing up this Territory will be better understood
than it is at present.
	We were specially interested in Mrs. Parker
because of her being one of the Committee on
Dress Reform appointed by the National Council,
and also, as we found on meeting her, that she had
a very fine, well-modulated voice and most win-
ning address, she would make a profound im-
pression upon her audience wherever she might
speak. All these things tell well for woman's
cause, and help to uplift it.
	There is no doubt but Col. and Mrs. Parker
have done a good work among the teachers here
in this Territory and broadened their ideas and
methods, as contact with others always does
naturally.
	We are very glad to be interviewed by such
people as Mrs. Parker, and Miss Hefron, and
Miss Balgarnie, and Capt. Thomson of the Royal
Army of England, with whom we had a most in-
teresting conversation on Mormonism when, on
his way from San Francisco to New York, he
passed through Salt Lake City. In fact, this city
has come to be a great center of attraction for
tourists, romantically situated as it is midway
between the Missouri river and the Pacific Coast,
and with its peculiar history of a peculiar people.
The Temples built in various places are singular
attractions and significant of this people and
their religion.


[Column 1]

EDMUND RUSSELL.

[The Exponent of the Art of Expression.]
	The visit of Mr. Russell to this office on Thurs-
day, August 18th, was a real pleasure, to say the
least. To describe this apostle of Delsarte we
are totally incompetent, but we can tell our

[Column 2]

﻿readers in our own way something of him and
his ideas, which seem new ones to the uninitiated
in the art of expression which he enunciates
emphatically by means of his own personality
when you come face to face with him. He must
be seen and heard if one would realize what
his work, and the art he represents, has de-
veloped in him. He gives you in a few minutes'
conversation, in word painting, many wonderful
suggestions and makes you feel them to be real
stepping stones upward and onward.
	If he had been common-place and uninterest-
ing, coming as he did with a letter of introduction
from Mrs. May Wright Sewall, whose friendship
is so dear to the writer, and who is one of the
brightest and most deservedly popular women of
the country, and is the President of the National
Council of Women of the United States, we
should most certainly have been glad to show
him some courtesy or favor; but when we found
him such a perfect conversationalist, and so de-
sirous to hear of our country, and our homes, our
only regret was that our time was limited, and
that we should not be able to hear him in some
large parlor or building in this city, though we
most sincerely hope he will remain and speak
here.
	To be sure we had heard of his celebrity and
his aesthetic success, or successes, but never
dreamed his work anything so real and yet
ideal.
	The underlying facts are, or seem to be, to
make the most and the best of actual life, or to
get the best results from all one does, and to do
everything with that intention.
	Mr. Russell does not approve of the modern
method of education, because of its abnormal
tendency to the development of the mental
faculties at the expense of the physical.
	It is said Delsarte "studied man's nature from
a physical as well as mental standpoint, believing
that the mental, the moral and the physical
should be educated at the same time, and each in
perfect harmony with the other."
	We as a people should go a little farther and
say the spiritual nature also. Perfect harmony of
all attributes, of all work, is the perfection of
skill in any direction, or in any science, or in any
matter. That is the established fact, but how to
produce that harmony is the problem.
	If men and women knew how to produce har-
mony in this life, they would have discovered the
royal highway to happiness. Unfortunately
though they may have made some little progress
in some certain directions, the progress is very
slow towards perfection but that is the object a
few are aiming to attain, a perfect life. Truths
are eternal even if we do not receive them, or put
them to use.
	Mr. Russell considers the use of tea and
tobacco bad practices, he also thinks wearing
corsets is bad, compressing the vital parts of the
human body; he says too, that men seldom
breathe right, women never. His lessons are
something like the kindergarten system, illus-
trated by "object lessons," and are said to be
very pleasant affairs, of which we cannot have
the least doubt, after having had several talks
with him, although all in one day.
	Perhaps the best thing to tell the readers of the
EXPONENT would be that there is much of his
teaching that we already know as a people, but
we do not put it in practice as we should.
Brigham Young taught this people how to live
morally and spiritually and temporally, and if
they had observed the hints he gave and the
truths he set forth in the sermons he preached
from time to time, the progress and development
in many directions among this people would have
been much greater.
	New developments in art, in science, and in
philosophy are being obtained and are for the
benefit of all; there will be still greater dis-


coveries made doubtless in many directions, and
by and bye those who live for it will attain to a
higher standard of perfection physically, morally,
mentally and spiritually, and it is something de-
voutly to be hoped for. As Hamlet said: "There
are more things in heaven and earth than are
dreamed of in our philosophy.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CHAUTAUQUA ASSEMBLY.

	The Chautauqua Assembly has grown to be a
national affair so to speak. In nearly every state
and territory a circle or club has been organized
and is in working order, and yet many people do
not understand its object or scope. It seems to
the writer that it is one of the most generally
educational institutions of the day. We give be-
low some brief minutes of an Assembly held at
the head quarters in Chautauqua, N. Y., taken
from The Mail and Express of New York City,
which may give some idea of the definite work of
this institution, and since we know there is a
circle or assembly here in Utah, it is of some local
interest to become more familiar with its plans
and methods. The communication is dated
August 12th:
	Dr. Doremus gave his last scientific lecture
Wednesday night, the subject being "The Order
of Life on This Planet." A large chart was
suspended above the stage, showing the strata of
the earth. The lecturer gave a lot of experiments
on the chemistry of the air.
	"The Public School" was the topic of Emily
Huntington Miller's paper before the Girls' Club
yesterday, and it was an able discussion of the
foes of our school system and the relation of
parent and teacher in the care of the child.
	Bishop J. M. Hoburn, in a lecture on India,
gave the results of thirty years' observation as a
missionary in that land. He laid especial em-
phasis upon the woeful relaxation in the caste
system, which is fast passing away.
	The Boys' Congress held its final session
yesterday, and the exercises were attended by a
great number of visitors. The cabinet made
speeches before the congress recommending re-
forms in their department, and the congress dis-
cussed a bill for the establishment of a civil
academy and to make Anarchists cease seditious
utterances or leave the country.
	Wednesday was Denominational day, and
twelve churches held meetings in the afternoon at
various points on the ground. The usual Bible
conference was held at 2 o'clock, under the direc-
tion of Dr. Jesse L. Hurlburt. The C. L. S. C.
class of '91 held a social meeting at 5 o'clock in
the afternoon. A musical tea was given by the
Girls' Club in the college building. Nearly three
hundred members of the club and their guests
were present.
	The ten classes, from '86 to 96, which are rep-
resented in the new Union Class building, met in
the Hall of Philosophy and marched to their new
quarters and took formal possession. The build-
ing is of wood, three stories in height, and cost
$10,000.
	The Chautauqua Political Economy Club,
under the direction of Prof. Richard T. Ely, held
its first regular meeting Wednesday and dis-
cussed the question, "Has Political Economy an
Ethical Basis?" Miss Slocum was the leader.
	President J. G. Schurman, of Cornell Uni-
versity, delivered a lecture in the Hall of
Philosophy at 5 o'clock on the topic, "Free Will
versus Automatism."


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Quarterly Conference of the Relief Society
of this Stake of Zion will be held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall in this City on Friday, September
23, meetings commencing at 10 a. m., and at 2 p.
m., as usual. Officers from all the branches of the


Society in the county are urgently requested to
come, that there may be a fair representation of
the work with its growth, development and pro-
gress temporally and spiritually.
	THE Secretaries of the several Stakes of Zion
both here and abroad are specially requested to
send semi-annual reports immediately, properly
prepared upon the printed blanks, to Mrs. Romania
B. Pratt, M. D., Assistant Secretary, 206, North,
Second West, Salt Lake City, that she may have a
correct and full report of the status and work of
the Relief Society ready for the October Confer-
ence.


[Column 1]

LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY MEETINGS.

	THE Ladies' semi-monthly meeting in the 14th
Ward Assembly Rooms, July 16, 1892, was an in-
teresting occasion. Counselor Elizabeth Webb
presided. Meeting opened with singing, "Lord
we come before thee now," prayer was offered
by Sister E. S. Taylor, continued by singing,
"Welcome best of all good meetings" &c. Sister
Webb made some general remarks suitable to the
occasion, and requested the sisters to speak and
bear testimony. Sister M. Y. Dougal spoke of
the necessity of diligence and faithfulness and of
the judgments to be poured out in the last days
and that they would commence in Zion. Alluded
to the temptations around the pathway of the
young people at the present time.
	Sister Julia C. Howe followed and spoke of the
spirit of God manifest in the meeting, and of the
higher duties and responsibilities of this people.
	Sister Mary Silver spoke encouragingly to the
Scandinavian sisters and of their integrity to the
Gospel, also referred to the evils of the present
day and the calamities coming upon the earth.
	The sisters joined in singing, "There's a feast
of fat things" etc.
	Sisters Corbett and Brown each bore testimony.
Sister E. S. Taylor spoke a short time upon the
duties of the Saints and the individual work each
one had to do, urged the sisters to greater faith-
fulness. Sisters Snow, Smith and Forseith each
one bore testimony to the truth.
	Sister H. C. Young spoke of a prophecy in re-
gard to the Scandinavians and advised them to
teach their children their own language.
	Sister Mary E. Bassett, Sister Margaret State
and others each bore testimony and at the close
Sister Webb expressed her good and kindly feel-
ing and that the good spirit had been with us;
spoke of the work to be accomplished for the re-
demption of the dead. Adjourned with singing,
and prayer by Sister E. S. Taylor.

	On July 30, at the Ladies' semi-monthly meet-
ing, the President, M. I. Horne, presided.
Opened by singing "Where the voice of friend-
ship's heard," prayer by Sister H. C. Young,
singing "O, happy souls who pray." Minutes of
previous meeting read and approved. President
Home made an interesting speech upon the
prophecies and their fulfillment. Spoke feelingly
of the labor troubles and strikes throughout the
land and thought we should all watch and pray
without ceasing. Sister H. M. Whitney dwelt
upon spiritual things, and of her sorrow at the
condition of the world, desired to see the Temple
completed, and alluded to her anxiety for the
young.
	President Zina D. H. Young spoke upon charity
and the healing of the sick, also concerning testi-
mony and many other things.
	Sister Parry of Cassia Stake bore a good testi-
mony, also Sister Cook, Sister Silver, Sister B.
W. Smith, Sister Brown, Sister Phelps, Sister
Stevenson and Sister Howard. President Horne
closed with some interesting remarks, and the
sisters sang "Our God we raise to Thee;" bene-
diction by Sister E. S. Taylor.

[Column 2]

	August 13, 1892, Counselor B. W. Smith pre-
siding: singing, "Come O, thou king of kings,"
prayer by Sister E. Webb, continued by singing,
"Our God we raise to thee." Sister Smith spoke a
short time and was followed by Sister S. M. Kimball,
who spoke upon co-operation and improvement
and urged all to seek for intelligence. Sister E.
Stevensen spoke upon sacrifices and missionary
labors and other important matters.
	Mrs. Ashbrook, M. D., was invited to speak,
she alluded to the opinions of the outside world
concerning this people, but she had proved them
to be honest and upright; stated that she desired
to overcome her pride and accept the truth, and
asked an interest in the faith and prayers of the
sisters.
	Sisters C. C. R. Wells, Corbett and others bore
testimony and Sister B. W. Smith closed with
some remarks about the love we should cultivate
for each other. Singing, Doxology, benediction
S. M. Kimball.
		MARGARET A. CAINE, Sec., pro tem.


STOCKHOLDERS’ MEETING.
	MINUTES of the semi-annual Stockholders’
meeting of the W. C. M. & M. Institution, held
August 13th 1892, in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms.
	Meeting was called to order by Vice President
M. Y. Dougal, President M. I. Horne being
absent from the city. Prayer was offered by C.
C. R. Wells. The minutes of the previous or
annual meeting were read and accepted. The
semi-annual report of the financial condition of
the business was then rendered by the Secretary.
	The following names were presented as nomi-
nees for members of the Board of Directors, that
quorum never having been full: Mrs. Lula Greene
Richards, Mrs. Minnie James and Mrs. Sarah
Howard,of Bountiful. Also the name of Mrs.E. H.
Woodmansee as Treasurer, and Gladys Wood-
mansee as Secretary, they having previously been
appointed to those positions by the Board of
Directors. The vote was called for and proved
unanimous in favor of sustaining these ladies as
members of the Board, and as Treasurer and
Secretary.
	Vice President M. Y. Dougal then spoke favor-
ably of the enterprise and dwelt upon the many
advantages to be derived from such an institution.
She urged the sisters to patronize the store, and
to agitate the matter, thus advertising it among
their friends. Was pleased with the report which
shows that we are not dead yet, but we must
have more patronage and a larger capital to work
with if we would make a success of this under-
taking.
	Mrs. E. H. Woodmansee then said that in be-
half of herself and daughter she would say that it
was in deference to the wishes of the Board of
Directors that they had again accepted these posi-
tions, as Mrs. Minnie James and Mrs. Carrie
Thomas, being occupied with domestic affairs,
were not able to devote their time to the Institu- 
tion. Spoke of the benefit of being able to ap-
prentice our daughters under a good influence,
and said if we will be patient some one, in the not
distant future, will have the pleasure of declaring
a dividend. Mrs. M. W. Wilcox spoke encourag-
ingly of our condition, and urged the necessity of
selling more stock; mentioned the pleasant in-
fluence which had always existed in our Institu-
tion. Mrs. C. C. R. Wells said that the Institu-
tion is as safe as the bank so far as we have gone,
but our hands are tied for the want of more capi-
tal; urged the sisters to take more stock and sus-
tain this Institution, as it will be for our benefit
in many ways.
	Meeting adjourned for six months or until the
Saturday nearest the 15th of February.
GLADYS WOODMANSEE, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ITEMS FROM THE NORTH.

Editor EXPONENT:
	DEAR SISTER:—I am always pleased to receive
my EXPONENT, it seems like having a good visit
with an old friend. I was acquainted in my
younger days with several of the sisters that write
good articles for the paper and it fills my heart
with joy and satisfaction to read them.
	The health of the Saints in Bannock Stake is,
generally speaking, good at present. I had the
honor with Stake President Temperance
Hinckly of the Relief Society, to accompany
President Ricks and his Counselors, (as also
Sisters E. Ricks and C. Smith in behalf of the
Young Ladies' Association) on a tour around the
south part of Bannock Stake. We held twenty
meetings, traveled two hundred and eleven miles
and home again in ten days. We had an enjoyable
time, were met with welcome and good cheer,
wherever we went with the Saints. It seems to me
that those who desire to live their religion can
see the necessity of doing so more and more
every day. I can testify to the fact that there is
a united band of faithful sisters in the Bannock
Stake Relief Society, willing to respond to every
call made upon them.
	I forgot to mention Patriarch A. E. Hinckly
was with President Ricks on his tour; he blest
the Saints in the congregations, also their fields
and all they possessed, that they might grow and
increase; also N. C. Watkins, Principal of Ban-
nock Stake Academy traveled and talked in be-
half of having religious classes for those that
could not attend the Academy. How wise in 
President Woodruff! He is truly a father looking
after the interests of our children, the poor as
well as the rich, to see that all are educated in
the principles of the Gospel, the future hope of
Zion.
	These are a few rambling ideas; excuse me for
encroaching on your valuable time and believe
me a sincere friend of the EXPONENT.
	MRS. M. S. ANDERSON.
KAINTUCK, BINGHAM COUNTY, IDAHO.
Aug. 5, 1892.


NATURE.

	WE are all lovers of the beautiful I believe, yet
we must all realize that imitation will not com-
pare with that which is real, accordingly the God
of nature must surely have the preference, in our
love and admiration, because His intelligence
supersedes all else.
	There is however another class of people who
are not capacitated to imitate nature of this kind,
yet learn useful lessons by observation and re-
flection.
	We have a specimen of this kind in our school
books which I read in my youth, but they have
long since been called in and others now supply
their place; the one I would refer to is a poem
called the “The Shepherd and Philosopher.” I
think I can repeat it. It reads thus:

	THE SHEPHERD.

“His head was silvered o’er with age
And long experience made him sage
Through summer’s heat and winter’s cold
He penned his flock and fed the fold.

His hours in cheerful labor flew
Nor envy nor ambition knew,
His modest worth and generous fame
Through all the country raised his name.

A deep Philosopher whose rules
Of moral life were drawn from schools,
The Shepherd’s homely cottage sought
And thus explored his reach of thought.

Whence is thy learning? hath thy toil
O’er books consumed the midnight oil?
Hast thou old Greece and Rome surveyed
Or the vast sense of Plato weighed?


Hath Socrates thy soul refined,
	Or hast thou fathomed Tully's mind?

	The shepherd modestly replied:
	I ne'er the paths of learning tried;
	Nor have I roamed in foreign parts
	To read mankind their laws and arts.

	The little knowledge I have gained,
	Was all from simple nature drained,
	In constancy and faithful love,
	I learn my duty from the dove.

	The hen, which from the chilly air
	With pious wings protects her care;
	And every fowl that flies at large
	Instructs me in a parent's charge.

	My dog, the trusty of his kind,
	With gratitude inflames my mind;
	I mark his true and faithful way
	And in my service copy Tray."

	This reminds me of our Savior's words, "Ex-
cept ye become as a little child ye can not enter
into the kingdom of heaven."
	Do not we see in this poem what the God of
nature can do for one who has honesty of soul
and sincerity of heart in believing there is such a
Being who overrules the destiny of the human
family if they will only lend a listening ear to the
still small voice which naturally belongs to man
who is made in the image of God and has a germ
of the Deity to begin this journey of life?
	Yes, it both ennobles and refines the character of
those who will make themselves acquainted with
its marvelous charm, for such it truly proved to
be to the shepherd, giving him the deportment
of an educated person.
	Please read the history of our Savior Jesus
Christ, see what attainments He arrived at, yet
uneducated in worldly wisdom, though He was
compelled to learn both.
	Let us remember then that we did not come
into this world just to eat and drink and sleep,
but to learn these lessons, which we can do if we
practice the lessons that Jesus gave.
								M. E. K.
	Aug. 15, 1892.


[column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
JACKSON.
	Report of the organization of the Relief
Society of the Laklata Branch, of the Burn-
ham Ward, organized Mar. 27th, 1892,
as follows: Sister Lydia Taylor was chosen
to act as President, Sisters May Rogers,
and Agnes Smith Counselors, Sister Mary
Taylor Secretary, Miss Lillie Taylor assist-
ant Secretary, Sister Amanda Taylor
Treasurer. The brethren who officiated in
setting apart these officers, were President
F. A. Hammond, Bishop L. C. Burnham,
Elders F. A. Young, J. S. Smith, and D. J.
Rogers.
	MARY J. TAYLOR, Sec.

DAVIS STAKE.
	Minutes of the Relief Society Conference
of Davis Stake, held at Kaysville, July 22nd,
1892. Pres. Susan Grant presiding. There
were present from Salt Lake City President
Zina D. H. Young and L. G. Richards, also
Bishop Barton of Kaysville and others.
Meeting opened by singing, “Glorious
things of Thee are spoken;” prayer by
Counselor Jane Holt; singing, “Truth re-
flects upon our senses.” Minutes of the
previous Conference read and approved.
	Pres. Grant expressed her pleasure at
again meeting in the capacity of a Conference.
I know it is very busy times here and we
can’t expect very many to come to Confer-
ence; many of us have spent our lives in
this Kingdom, and it would be too bad not

[column 2]
to hold out to the end and get the blessings
that are in store for the faithful. Myself
and Counselors have visited the northern
branches of the Society and have organized
one new Society at Summit Basin; where
ever we go we find a few faithful souls and
they are the ones that will receive the
choicest blessings.
	Pres. Zina D. Young spoke of the
necessity of the young sisters attendingthe
Society; referred to our sons and daughters
marrying out of the Church, many of them
have seen the error of their ways. Let us
all have a spirit of forgiveness and
kindness to all; said that our little duties
should be attended to.
	Bishop Barton: It is the very busiest time
of the year with us, if it was a few weeks
earlier or later more could attend. When
we speak it is not the many words we use
but the sincerity of our hearts; spoke about
using our influence for good, there never
was more need of faith and perseverence
than now, when we neglect our duties dark-
ness takes possession of our minds. Paul
could see the present day, he said the people
would be more lovers of pleasure than God-
liness. I trust that we may always feel the
spirit of humility and never forget to show
our gratitude to God. I feel, Sisters, to ap-
preciate your labors; let us all be true to
God and ourselves.
	Pres. Muir represented West Bountiful as
doing well and all seemed to want to do
their duty.
	Pres. S. B. Layton made some very in-
teresting remarks; said she desired to live in
the fear of the Lord all her days; was thank-
ful for having had a knowledge of this
work when young, also that her lot had
been just as it had. She then spoke in
tongues, which was interpreted by Sister
Clark, Sister Zina bore testimony to the
truth and correctness of the interpretation.
	Counselor Hatch represented South
Bountiful.
	Meeting was then adjourned until after-
noon; singing “Now let us rejoice in the
day of Salvation.” Benediction by Bishop
Barton.
	Afternoon Services: After the usual
opening exercises Sister Lula Greene Rich-
ards addressed the sisters. “How beautifully
our Father in heaven has organized this
Society; the branches are all linked together;
if we neglect any one thing the Lord has
given us to learn, it will show itself some-
where;” spoke very earnestly about prayer,
said that we should have it in our hearts all
the time; if we make sacrifices to do good
we will not lose any thing by it; we should
try to reform our children and ourselves.
"I think it is a great privilege to be here
with Sister Zina and I ask the Lord to bless
us all.”
	Sister Aurelia Rogers made a few remarks:
“I feel that I dare not shrink from my duty.”
Spoke about children, said we should teach
them good principles. “I love to come to
these meetings and have my spiritual
strength renewed.”
	Sister Zina spoke upon traditions and
obedience, said if we wanted obedient
children in the Church they should be taught
obedience home. Spoke of prayer and of
ordinances for the sick and referred to
clothing the dead for burial; spoke of the
duties of the teachers and secretaries and
many other important matters.
	Sister Lizzie Smith spoke of the interest
she felt in spiritual things and thought our
time should be more spent in learning
spiritual things and less in temporal,etc.


Coun. Jane Holt was deeply interested in
this latter-day work especially in the young
people and in the primary Associations,
spoke upon prayer and several other
subjects.
	Pres. Grant said we have heard many
good things and been truly edified and blest.
Singing "How beauteous are their feet who
stand on Zion's hill." Benediction by
Brother Smith. Conference adjourned
for three months to be held at East Bounti-
ful. 
PHEBE C. SESSIONS, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


W. S. A. REPORT.
				———
		SOUTH BOUNTIFUL W. S. A.
	On invitation from the Woman Suffrage
Association of South Bountiful, Dr. Elvira
S. Barney and Mrs. E. McFarlane of Salt
Lake City, also Mrs. Lucy A. Clark of
Farmington, and Mrs. Martha Fackrell of
West Bountiful visited the association of 
South Bountiful.
	The first speaker was Mrs. Lucy A.
Clark who gave instructions pertaining to
the World's Fair; and other business was
laid before the association. Mrs. McFar-
lane next addressed the house, spoke of the
ballot for woman and treated the subject in
an interesting manner, and touched on other
points pertaining to the suffrage question.
Dr. Barney after expressing herself well
pleased with the work of the association,
dwelt at some length on EQUAL RIGHTS;	
explained many things in regard to the
situation and position of woman today; a
few spicy jokes were mixed in with her re-
marks which were very appropriate. All
wished to hear from Mrs. Fackrell, and she
responded in a brief speech in behalf of suf-
frage and equal rights. Meeting adjourned 
for one month.
		SARAH H. HOWARD, President.


[Column 1]

A PIONEER ADDRESS.

BY MRS. ELECTA BULLOCK.

	[Delivered at the celebration in Provo,
July 24, 1892.]
	The 24th day of July! The pioneer day
of Utah it is called; and why do we con-
tract the term to apply only to Utah? Why
not give to it its full and true application,
and say: "The 24th day of July! The
pioneer day of the Inter-mountain region
and the Pacific Coast.
	Truly this is the day when every man
and woman who has been the recipient of
the God-given privilege of this Divinely
favored land, between the Missouri river
and the Pacific coast, should bow their heads
in humble reverence, and lift their hearts in
earnest praise and thanksgiving to their
Father in heaven for this day—the anni-
versary of the day when that brave and in-
spired band pitched their scorched and
tattered tents in the Great Salt Lake Valley
and seized upon the key that opened up to
our race the new and golden world.
	I am asked to speak to you today in be-
half of the women, who have taken so
noble and prominent a part in the almost
incomprehensible drama that has been
played for the last forty-five years upon this
land, to which the eyes of the world are
turned today.
	To do my subject even an approximate
justice, or to give their unparalleled history

[Column 2]

a passing notice, would require more time
and ability than I have at my command.
	On the 7th day of April 1847 the pioneer
company left the Missouri river and com-
menced their journey toward the setting
sun. It consisted of 148 souls—143 strong,
brave men, three equally brave and courag-
eous women, and two children.
	History tells us somewhat of those noble,
self-sacrificing women, how their untiring
efforts and cheerful influence were brought
to bear upon the hearts of those earnest
toilers in their weary march; and in every
line of their record we find inspiration to
boble deeds and higher thoughts.
	When preparing for the perilous journey
to the unknown west, and the hearts of 
Israel were o'ershadowed with anxiety for
the friends with whom they were about to
part, for how long they knew not, the
shadows of gloom were all dispelled by the
inspiration of song, and in one grand chorus
the hosts of Israel sang:

	"The time of winter now is o'er,
		There's verdure on the plain;
	We leave our sheltering roofs once more
		And to our tents again.
	Oh! camp of Israel onward move,
		O! Jacob rise and sing;
	Ye saints the world's salvation prove;
		All hail to Zion's King."

	And brightness took the place of gloom,
hope banished despair, faith removed and
took the place of doubt, and under the
music of that pioneer song, the march was
taken up, the camp-fire was made more
cheerful, the stout hearts of brave men made
more hopeful and courageous, and those in-
spired words and that music were given to
Israel by a woman.
	And when the fleeing hosts took up the
journey to follow their leader into the
wilderness, that song of a woman brought
cheer and sunshine to the exhausted souls,
after their weary day of travel. Through
all the terrible vicissitudes of that memor-
able journey, and the innumerable trials of
those who came hither subsequently, wo-
man's noble work and elevating and refin-
ing influence were seen and felt in a thou-
sand different ways. We see her when de-
voting her attention to the helpless and in
many instances half-starved children; anon
giving succor to the unfortunate sick, and
again by her encouraging words and un-
swerving faith, banishing from her hus-
band's, brothers' or sons' heart every
shadow of discouragement and planting
there the grandest purposes and noblest
ambitions, perchance mounting her steed
and driving stock upon the trail, or manag-
ing her ox or horse team, as the situation at
the moment demanded, suiting herself to
every circumstance, and cheerfully meeting
every emergency, and with a faith peculiarly
her own, seeing the hand of God in every
condition she was called upon to meet.
	When the valley—the resting place and
future home—was finally reached, we see her
hand in hand with her husband and father,
toiling along unmurmuringly at every
legitimate occupation presenting itself to
her, whereby she could assist in earning the
common necessaries of life, and make a
home for family, and render assistance to
friends.
	And when the great tide of emigration
commenced across the continent to the
"Land of Gold" and the exhausted pilgrims
arrived in the Salt Lake Valley, the created
oasis in the desert, sick in body and at
heart, the ministrations of the tender hands
of those pioneer women have nursed many

[Column 3]

and many a dying soul back to life and ulti-
mate prosperity; and how cheerfully were all
labors of love and charity performed by
them! I have the distinguished honor of
knowing from personal experience and ob-
servation, the truth of what I say. In the
opening up and settling of new countries his-
tory presents no parallel to that of pioneer
Utah. Never in human experience has such a
band of grand pioneer men been surrounded
by such noble, high-minded, pure, and
earnest women. In the organization of the
social fabric of our great commonwealth,
woman has ever been the principal factor,
and her gentle refining influence has borne
its divine fruit, in the rearing throughout
these Rocky Mountain valleys the most in-
telligent, refined, prayerful, virtuous and
progressive posterity that the pioneers of
any country were ever blessed with.
	It is universally conceded that Utah has
the greatest amount of musical ability of
any country on earth in proportion to its
population, and I ask you if that fact is not
one of the direct results of virtuous, pure-
minded Christian mothers? It is said "by
their fruits ye shall know them," and I
stand here today and proudly invite your
attention to the fruits of the social system
that those pioneer women assisted in estab-
lishing, and with religious devotion have
maintained, and challenge the intelligent
world to say they are not good.
	We have but to look into the faces of
those bright, sweet little darlings around us
here today—listen to their angelic music,
follow them to their comfortable and happy
homes; note their advanced condition in all
educational matters, and bow to the fruits
of pioneer principle and effort.
	In the commercial history of our common-
wealth woman is no less prominent than in
the social. For many many years in the early
history of Utah, there was but little clothing
worn that did not pass through the hand of
woman—first to the hand card, thence to the
hand spinning-wheel; thence to the hand
loom, and from there to the wife tailor, to
the household knitter, and the female hatter.
All that the cunning and device of human
hands could perform under the circumstances
those women zealously seized the oppor-
tunity to do and with brain and hand
labored to save and maintain the credit of
their husbands and fathers, both at home
and abroad, and formerly there was no
country on earth whose credit was superior
to that of Utah.
	As to the female literary ability among us
but little need be said. It is too well known
to require comment from me today. It is
unnecessary for me to bring before you the
brilliant array of female literary talent, so
well known to the educated world, but suf-
fice it to say, that according to advantages
and population we have no peer in this or
any other country either in prose or song.
	And do you ask me about our political
record? If you do, let me briefly answer
you. From time immemorial we have
carried in the front, held up to the eyes of
all the world the banner we proudly wave
today, "Not Superiority, but Equality."
Memorial after memorial have we modestly
but earnestly forwarded to the legislative
authority of our great country asking that
our principle be recognized; we have never
wavered from our purpose, and with the
help of God we never will until we are in
the full possession of that which we know
we have earned, for ourselves and our
daughters and our daughters' daughters,—
the recognition of "Political Equality."


——————————————————
	We believe that woman has given to the
politics of our land that which is purest and
best in them. We believe that when she 
receives the recognition of political equality
she can and will eliminate from politics
many of its evil and most damning influ-
ences of today; we believe that when given
the opportunity she will do as much for our
political system as she has done for our
social, commercial, and literary systems.
	We can point proudly to the brief period
when we enjoyed the well earned privilege
of franchise in our Territory and truthfully
say to the world that there was no citizen
elected to office by our votes that proved
unworthy of the public trust reposed in
him. We are proud of the fact, that while
we were exercising our franchise, there
were no disgraceful disturbances at the polls
and that there was less blasphemy than 
there was before, or has been since. 
	And when the elective franchise was ruth-
lessly taken from us, under our most solemn
protest, it was done by just such corrupt
means and measures as women will cast out of
politics when the time shall arrive that they
are empowered to accomplish that much de-
sired end.
	And in conclusion permit me to say that
we realize and fully appreciate the facts that
we are—
	Equally taxpayers with the men;
	Equally amenable to the laws of the land,
	Equally interested in seeing the laws
properly administered and vindicated;
	Equally earnest in every material ad-
vancement of our commonwealth.
	And as pioneer mothers of the Great West
we feel that that which is our right is being
withheld from us, but we have faith that
our strong progressive sons will stand nobly
by our banner until their mothers, wives,
sisters and daughters will receive their
proper recognition—"Political Equality"
not superiority.
		—————————


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

MODERN ADVERTISING.

[Extract from the writings of Thomas
Warwick.]
	Few people realize the extensive use that
is made of newspaper columns for black-
mailing purposes; but a New York detective,
who makes it a point at stated intervals to
answer all the personals in the papers,
states that in one case, out of eighty letters
he received in return to his inquiries, there
were only half a dozen on the score of
which he had any doubts, the others all
coming from well-known gangs of black-
mailers.
	The method employed by these men for
"working the racket" is as follows: The ad.
first appears in the paper in the regulation
style so familiar to every one: "Refined
young lady of twenty, bright blue eyes,
lovable disposition, seeks companionship of
educated young man."
	There are always plenty of fools ready to
answer such an advertisement, and the
young man is soon so deeply tangled up in
an affair that when he wishes to break off
he finds it too late: the blackmailers hold
letters and other tangible proof against him,
and inform him roundly that he must either
pay a few hundred dollars or have his name
brought into the courts on a breach-of-
promise suit. Of course, in many instances 
their schemes are successful, the young man
or his family paying the required sum in or-
der to avoid any scandal.
	The opposite case is also of frequent oc-

[Column 2]

currence. The advertisement that appears
this time is that of the educated young man
seeking the companionship of the refined
young lady. It is surprising how many
young ladies of good family there are who
answer these advertisements, "just for fun,"
and who have their letters addressed to one
of the numerous private postoffices in drug
stores, etc. But, like the ostrich which
hides its head in the sand when pursued,
they soon learn to their cost that they are
no match for the hunters. After carrying
on their amusing correspondence for awhile
with their unknown advertiser, they tire of
it, and endeavor to put a stop to it. Im-
mediately they begin to receive letters in
their own name and addressed to their own
homes, threatening to publish the letters
they wrote in jest unless a certain amount
of cash is forthcoming. The wily black-
mailers play a sharp game, and easily ascer-
tain the identity of their fair correspondents
from the very beginning of the affair.
	If the aid of a good lawyer is secured the
treacherous letters may be usually bought
back at from twenty-five to fifty dollars, but
when the young woman is afraid to confess
the matter to her parents, and has property
of her own, the swindlers often receive large
sums in this manner.
	But the devil does not confine his atten-
tion to the advertising columns of the news-
papers. He knows too well the value of
printer's ink to overlook the possibilities of
the reading matter, and the fact that his ads.
are inserted free of charge is not calculated
to deter him from pushing work in this di-
rection. I refer now more particularly to
the column upon column of space which
the newspapers devote to creating and ex-
tending the notoriety of criminals. There
cannot be the shadow of a doubt that these
newspaper accounts do more to stimulate
crime than almost any other one cause.
Not only does it act by appealing to the love
of notoriety of those who are already crimi-
nals, and so encourage them on to worse
and worse deeds, but it appeals to those who
are too ignorant to attempt crime by them-
selves, but who, on reading of the doings
of others in the papers, find here examples
ready set for them, and which they can
easily follow. Moreover, constant contact
with vice blunts the moral feelings, and
constant reading of the acts of criminals is
apt to have the same effect, and to so
familiarize the minds of the people with
crime that it loses its first repulsiveness.
We must not forget that one of the great-
est safeguards against crime is the instinc-
tive feeling of disgust which it inspires, a
disgust which arises from education amid
fine surroundings, and that without this
first feeling many crimes would have been
committed which are now unrecorded.
	A step in the right direction would be
for the reputable newspapers to abolish the
personal column. As to the sensational
reading matter, it would probably be out of
the question to do away with this, as the
public demand for this kind of news is so
great that the publisher who refused to
print it would soon find himself without sub-
scribers. But there is one step which the
best papers could and should take. It is
the suppression of the name of the criminal
in the accounts of his crime. The individu-
al man being thus merged into one general.
class, with no distinction whatever, the
notoriety would be greatly diminished, and
would be less of an incentive to crime than
it is at present. In other words, crime
would be shorn of its glory, or at least of a

[Column 3]

great part of it, and this would be a good
and valuable work accomplished.


PRIMARY STAKE SECRETARIES.
	The stake secretaries of the Primary As-
sociations are requested to send in their
yearly reports by September 15th, 1892.
The new report blanks can be obtained by
sending to Miss May Anderson, 108 South,
Seventh East, Salt Lake City, General
Secretary, P. A.


MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p.m.
R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K.THOMAS
SCENIC LINE OF THE WORLD
RIO GRANDE WESTERN RAILWAY
THE
Standard Gauge
RAILWAY!
..THROUGH THE..
ROCKY MOUNTAINS!
Choice of Three Distinct Routes,
AND THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT RAILROAD SCENERY
IN THE WORLD.
Two Fast Express Trains Daily 
EACH WAY BETWEEN
OGDEN, SALT LAKE AND DENVER.
ELEGANT RECLINING CHAIR CARS!
Free of Charge.
Direct Connections made in Union Depots.
THE MOST THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED RAILWAY
IN THE WEST.
D.C. DODGE, A. E. WELBY, J. H. BENNETT,
Genl. Mgr.		Supt.		G. F. & P. A.
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
he country promptly responded to.
AVD JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CIY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 21.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 15, 1892.	No. 6.


CONTENTS.
	In Rural England      .Divine Love—L. M. H.
Worship In Olden Times—Hearth and Hall.
Notes and News. Interesting Item—M. A. Till.
Friday and the Fair. R. S. Reports. “Why so
Many Men do not Marry”—C. C. R. W.
	EDITORIAL:—At Home Again. Baby Eleanor
Pines, Mines and Stage Lines. Editorial Note.
John Greenleaf Whittier. Mrs. May Wright Se-
wall—E. Death of a Sweet Child—Louisa.
	POETRY:—A Silent Lesson—Hyacinth. To the
Night—W. Gow Gregor. O, Where Dost Thou
Wander—R. M. F.


A SILENT LESSON.

I AM sitting by a streamlet,
	In a cool and shady dell,
Where the grass and tiny leaflet,
	In profusion love to dwell.

Here and there I spy a daisy,
	Pearly-white and russet brown,
Nodding bright in sunlight hazy,
	Modest glances casting down.

Up above in branches bending,
	Little songsters, in and out,
Sweetest melodies forth-sending,
	In soft cadences about.

While the tall and stately willows,
	To and fro in silence swing;
Like the undulating billows,
	To the heart sweet music bring.

At my feet 'neath fern leaves drooping,
	There the rippling water flows,
Over rocks and pebbles leaping,
	Down the valley to repose.

Golden gleams of sunlight stealing
	O'er the velvet covered ground;
Flashing sunbeams slowly creeping
	Up and down and all around.

Flutt'ring butterflies still hover,
	Dressed in white, gold, brown and black,
Over buttercups and clover,
	Seeking sweetness neither lack.

Busy bees with ceaseless humming,
	'Mong the moss and watercress—
Heavy-laden homeward coming,
	Dost thou wish thy burden less?

Whence derived that subtle odor—
	Fragrance from an unseen spot?
O'er my scattered senses wander,
	Mem'ries ne'er to be forgot.

Once again sweet perfumes wafted
	By the softly sighing breeze;
'Tis some flower closely shaded,
	By verdant grass and leaves.

Hither, thither, quickly seeking,
	By the banks with dew-drops wet;
Calmly sleeping, shyly peeping,
	Lo! there dreams a violet.

Lowly, humble, little flower,
	Thou art solace to my heart;
Like an ever welcome shower,
	Thou to me sweet hopes impart.

[Column 2]

With a tender, rev'rent feeling,
	I shall bear thee from this spot;
And I'll place in sacred keeping,
	Whisp'ring, "I'll forget thee not."

Oh, the lesson, little flower,
	Thou hast taught me I shall keep;
Ever praying for my dower,
	Traits like thine, pure, good, and meek.

And to live a life so holy;
	Sin can never be a part;
Though it be unknown and lowly,
	It may cheer a drooping heart.

May thy beauty never perish,
	Ever radiant may it last;
In my mem'ry thee I cherish,
	As a token of the past.
			HYACINTH.
ALPINE, Aug. 1, 1892.


[Column 1]

IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XXII.
	The journey from London was com-
paratively dnll, Lady Anna grieved being
separated from Maitland, and Miss Conway
was full of vague uncertainties as to her
meeting the Doctor; Clair was the only
really cheerful one of the party; he was
returning heart whole, and with bright
prospects of future prosperity in store. He
tried to keep up a brilliant run of conver-
sation with the young ladies, but it was im-
possible even for him, with his youthful ex-
uberance of spirits; and the second day out,
he relapsed into silence.
	The old coach horses jogged on and the
hours wore away, there was very little to
interest one in the scenery at this early
season of the year, the clouds were dark
and the March winds blew fiercely, so that
there was no chance of opening the coach
windows, and Clair whistled and sang
snatches of songs for his own amusement
until his sister Anna complained, and then
he teased and worried her about Maitland
and Rob Harrison in sheer desperation for
want of something to occupy his time.
	Never was a young woman in more
thoughtful mood than Jane Conway during
the entire journey; she scarcely spoke at all,
except when it was positively necessary, but
on reaching the grounds near the park, she
felt it an imperative duty to herself and
others to rouse from the reverie that had
enveloped her all the way from London,
and to make an effort to respond at least to
the cordial welcome, if homely one, she
knew would be given the party on their re-
turn to the Castle.
	Some rods distant from the great gateway,
horsemen were seen coming towards them,
and Jane's heart beat rapidly feeling sure
Dr. Bland was one of the company. Sure
enough it was the Doctor and a few of his
friends, to escort them in. Jane Conway
knew by this demonstration that he felt
sure of her, or he would have come un-
attended; she was not certain of her self-
control but summoning courage she stood
the test modestly as became the occasion,
and no one unless skilled in love matters

[Column 2]

could have detected the embarrassment she
really felt.
	"The feast is spread, the servants in
holiday attire and the gateways festooned
with trailing evergreens from the park, and
you will be welcomed in the most courtly
manner; a few of the neighbors have been
invited to welcome home the young master
of Hilliard Castle and estates," said the
Doctor, after the first salutations were over.
	"I was in hopes our home-coming would
have been with out parade or demonstration
after so long an absence," replied Miss Con-
way.
	"It would have been impossible after the
message sent down by Burke and Hemen-
way that Mr. Hilliard was to take formal
possession in place of his father, and the
Rector himself has been invited, so you see
it becomes a duty of the nobility he repre-
sents to have some formality, in order to
give a sort of legality to the affair, and
really the gathering is very small compared
to the wealth and rank of the young heir.
It shall be made as light as possible for you,
Lady Anna will be expected to show her-
self equal to the honors, but the principal
thing will be to make the right impression
upon all present, and especially the old re-
tainers and tenantry who are critical on
these customs and usages at festive cere-
monies."
	"We must have time to change our
traveling dresses for dinner costume, after
responding to the salutations outside, my
good Doctor," said Lady Anna.
	"As to that you are the best judges, I see
nothing amiss, your maids will attend to
the dressing, whatever an old fellow like
me might have to say. I see you have a
new attendant, and the Doctor bowed po-
litely to the pretty French maid who rode
with them to be near when wanted. The
coach drew up to the wide massive door-
way and the ponderous oak doors were un-
bolted with great ceremony and there stood
in state, not only the porter and attendants
but the late Baronet's solicitors Burke and
Hemenway, whom the in-coming party had
supposed were at their office in London; the
young Baronet was almost carried off his
feet, and so little did he know of the
strange proceedings that he was scarcely
coherent in his replies. The young Lady
did much better, and Miss Conway whose
part in the involuntary program came last
was so reserved, only bowing, nodding and
smiling that she quite awed the crowd of
enthusiastic admirers, who thronged the
hall and outer landing.
	"How handsome the young heir has
grown, what a magnificent figure and bear-
ing he has! A charming foreign accent and
wonderful eyes! He'll set the whole
country wild!" These and many other
similar exclamations from the crowd were
heard as they passed along, as well as favor-
able comments upon Lady Anna's figure
and appearance, "so like her mother,"
some were remarking, "the same delicate
features, and heavenly eyes;" finally the
girls reached the apartment made ready for
them, where warm wood fires and pale yel-
low lights cast gloomy shadows in the dark


[Column 1]

﻿rooms; and a shiver of nervous fear ran
through Lady Anna as she recalled the
scenes that had transpired of late, and she
could not avoid saying aloud "what a home
coming this is." Her maid caught the re-
mark and began praising everything, tell-
ing her she must not indulge in idle fancies,
but hurry up with the preparations and
consider what to wear on such an auspicious
occasion.
	"The most elegant and decidedly plain
dinner dress I have in my wardrobe," said
Lady Anna with a positive tone that made
Marie look up in amazement, but she yield-
ed the point, though she had prided her-
self on having her resemble a fairy queen
in crepe and pearls which best suited her
style-
	The great bell rang announcing the ban-
quet and Clair was on hand to escort his
sister, the Doctor waited impatiently for
his fiance, for he had not been alone with
her yet; he took her arm in his and led her
aside for a moment; with the calmness of a
saint at the altar of sacrifice she received
his tender embraces, and he was too much
wrought upon to notice her coldness, and
attributed her silence to the excitement and
the importance of the responsibility which
was pending. He was so certain of the
prize he had won that no doubt of its slip-
ping away from him ever entered his head.
	The dinner was a tedious affair as such
feasts generally are, everything was on such
a large scale, and Clair unaccustomed to
presiding at table for the small family of
three, would have been lost without Dr.
Bland's efficient help, who lightened his
task (for such it was) in every conceivable
way.
	Clair had been informed when he first ar-
rived that there would be dancing later on,
a thing unknown in that place, in fact no
one present could recall such an event never
at any time during the recollection of the
guests assembled now, so said one after
another.
	"There is no help for it" said Anna to
her consin, "we must dress again, though
I'm dead tired, and don't want to dance
with these country bumpkins, Clair and the
Doctor are the only good partners, and I
want to go to bed, after such a jaunt and all
this fuss and flurry. Clair is welcome to
all the honors, and I shall not dispute any
claim, and therefore he should do all the
honors, and excuse me from any 'part or
parcel' in the matter; which seems to be
wholly for his glorification."
"O, as to that" replied her cousin, "it is"
pretty evenly divided between you, bnt save
for the fact of his masculinity my opinion
is, we never should have heard of his ex-
istence."
	Anna looked as if she but half compre-
hended the insinuation but said, "Clair is
older and seniority counts a great deal
among the English nobility, it might have
been more unpleasant for me, had he not
been a boy, with those bewitching eyes of
his; I'm glad its no worse, and really what
makes you say we should never have heard
of the heir if he had not been a boy."
"Because it is a stubborn fact of which I am
fully assured; have you not observed in the
course of your short life the deference paid
to men of title in contra-distinction to wo-
men of rank who were far more deserv-
ing."
	"O, but its so different with us, we're of
very little consequence until we're married,
we have no prospect of public trust as papa
used to say, "all this bosh and humbug of

[Column 2]

elections, spending a lot of money to get
some one into office so as to keep up with
the rest of the world," he believed in the
old feudal times of the Barons when every
man's castle was his stronghold, and he was
master by right of his inheritance."
	"He lived up to that as well as he could
in those times, methinks; but, honor bright
cousin mine, its all wrong this discrimi-
nation against our sex, we ought to have
the same rights as our brothers; but we
must dress to dance with the guests of the
fete in honor of the new master, whatever
dislike we may have to the reverent com-
pany," and so the colloquy ended for the
time being. The hours sped gaily notwith-
standing, the great variety of costumes
and colors, the quaint and uncouth manners
of the country people gave merriment to
the festivities, and the young ladies were
highly amused, and danced and laughed
and forgot their weariness and ill-humor in
the general hilarity.
	Even stately Jane Conway grew more
genial under the influence of the music, and
her old bachelor lover felt quite at ease in
the warmth of her smiles, though not a
loving word passed between them until the
time for departure, which was very late, the
great clock of the castle had long since
sounded the midnight hour, and in crowds
the guests were leaving, when, drawing
Miss Conway aside, her lover whispered in
her ear, "tomorrow I shall be here early,
and now my best beloved, Good-night," and
he pressed her hand warmly.
	The guests were all gone, the lights were
extinguished, Clair and Anna had retired,
everything was quiet only Jane Conway
restless and dissatisfied with herself, paced
up and down her room fretting like a caged
bird, beating against its bars. "Tomorrow
he will come and what does my heart say?
That I would rather a thousand times live
out this poor life alone, than be united to
one I cannot love unreasonable, and yet he
is so noble and so true, why not make this
sacrifice of self for his happiness? he
deserves it from me, and I can devote my
whole life to him, would it be right? I know
not. No man in the wide, wide world will
ever care for me perchance as he does, and
I dread the future. Anna will marry soon
and go to her own home; in time Clair will
bring to the old homestead a fitting bride,
and I should be a pensioner, as it were in
my late uncle's domain. No! I shall not,
will keep my troth, I am resolved, come
what may," and she threw off her apparel
hastily and jumped into bed as though
afraid to meditate longer. Once sound
asleep after the fatigue and worry of the
day, she dreamed such a dream as one sel-
dom forgets.
	"She was in a strange land, everything
was rude and primitive, she was dressed in
dead black from head to foot, and stood in
the midst of a crowd feeling utterly alone;
she gazed afar off and saw the great bound-
less ocean heaving and surging, and she
heard the sobbing and moaning of the sad,
sea waves as she had often heard it when a
child. She strained her eyes in the distance,
and discoverd afar off a speck in the dim
horizon or on the great sea waves; the
others seemed to be all going in the same
direction: she felt her hand grasped with a
warm clasp and, looking down, saw a little
boy, fair haired and sunny-hued, his golden
curls streaming over his velvet collar, he
too was all in black, and her heart smote
within her as if some terrible calamity had
befallen her. She gazed athwart the sea

[Column 3]

again and nearer came the speck dancing
as it were upon the distant waves. The
noise of the crowd upon the shore seemed
shrill and cruel in her ears and she tighten-
ed her hold upon the child's hand, who
looked lovingly into her face and uncon-
sciously she exclaimed "so like Dr. Bland,"
and the boy wept; but she shed no tears,
nor did she try to soothe him, but gazed afar
until the deafening shouts, went up from
the landsmen "ship ahoy! see she comes
this way!" and then she turned and hurried
inland; mechanically along a winding path
till she came upon a cluster of hamlets in
the deep forests unlike any she had ever
seen, rougher and heavier built, one or two
women met her on the way, they were go-
ing towards the seashore, and they spoke
pityingly, but she passed on not heeding
them; all the time the cries and shouts of
the people on the beach were sounding in
her ears, and echoing back from among the
green woods; the child turned often to look
backward, but she kept on her way and en-
tered the low doorway of one of the rude
cabins seemingly to rest for she felt very
weary; the child begged her to go back to
the shore to see the ship, and finally she
rose and followed the little child, who hast-
ened towards the sea; the people nodded
pleasantly and some saluted her gallantly,
one or two dark-skinned and warrior-like
in stature and equipments, such as she
never remembered having seen before, spoke
kindly and patted the lad's head, though
their faces were painted and they were be-
decked with feathers, beads and the fur of
animals; she recalled having read of such
people in the old, old books; she must have
lingered long away in that hut in the forest
she thought, for the ship had landed, and
putting up her hand to shade her eyes, for
she was dazzled, she saw coming ashore,
and questioning the by-standers as he came
Rob Harrison; but he was much older,
though she knew him at a glance, and
blushing she turned to fly from him, but
the boy was not at her side and she felt she
must not lose him; while she hesitated, the
stranger had overtaken her,and without ask-
ing, kissed her there upon the highway,
the crowd bustling around them; the boy
was there too and when the man found ut-
terance he said, "where is my cousin An-
na?" So shocked was she to hear a familiar
voice among strangers, that she woke,
dreaming that she was sobbing upon the
bosom of this strange man from whom she
had been so many years separated; the great
clock was striking and her own maid stand-
ing over her in bewilderment, for she was
really sobbing in her sleep.


WOMANS EXPONENT.


MRS. BELLE C. JOHNSON is editor of the
Salem (Ill.) Republican.
	MISS ZELIA NUTTALL, of San Francisco,
is making her mark as an anthropologist.
Just now she is in Dresden, Germany,
where she has a fine collection of books on
Mexico. She is remarkably well-informed
in Aztec history and arts. In the last num-
ber of the “Internationales Archivfur Eth-
nographic" she publishes an illustrated
article upon the feather shields of Mexico.
In a recent visit to Florence, Italy, Miss
Nuttall discovered in the library an Aztec
manuscript with pictures. It turned out to
be a treatise upon dress and ornament, and
contains a text in Spanish. This, reprinted
in facsimile with critical notes and an
English translation, Miss Nuttall will pre-
sent at the next Congress in October.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TO THE NIGHT.

As I enter the shadowy portals of night,
	To stray in her solitude vast,
Pale memory whispers a vanished delight
	And summons a shade from the past.

Lo! my Marguerite plays: the sweet passion and
		skill
	That we loved speak again in her art.
How the strains of her violin sound, at her will
	Like the chords of a human heart.

It is only a dream, such as travelers say
	Thirst gives in the lands of the sun;
And the sad, sweet face and the form pass away—
	The music and glory are done!

I call on my love in grief's passionate words,
	If only one moment to stay;
But all that I hear is the twitter of birds
	That wake in the morning gray.

Where the far distant Alps seem a cloudland of
		snow,
	Are a lake, and a valley so fair,
And a sculptured stone, with its record of woe,
	To tell she is sleeping there.
			W. GOW GREGOR in Once a Week.


O, WHERE DOST THOU WANDER?

O, where dost thou wander, and whither hast
	fled,
My friends gather 'round me and say thou art 
	dead;
Tell me what is its meaning, say what have I
	done,
That forsaken I weep in my desolate home?

I tried to be always a dutiful wife,
Was proud of thy love as I was of my life;
How then have I grieved thee, that so soon thou
	hast flown
And left me to carry life's burden alone?

Hear the wail of our children, thy babes and
	mine,
For the love of a father ever they pine;
Oh! Father in heaven give me strength to en-
	dure,
And wisdom to lead them in ways that are pure.

I know thou hast promised the widow to bless,
And will comfort and cherish the fatherless;
Thou hast said to the widow a husband I'll be,
Then Father in mercy look Thou upon me.

Whatever my trials in thee will I trust,
Though sorrows o'erwhelm me I know thou art
just;
And if I will be patient--learn life's lessons well
The peace of thy spirit my bosom shall swell.

Already I feel its sweet influence here;
My husband in spirit I know will be near,
To encourage and cheer me adown my lone way,
Till rent is the vail and I see the bright ray--

Of Glory that gleams from my husband's abode,
And thou hast commanded me--lay down thy
	load;
Henceforth thy pure spirit from earth's anguish is
	free,
Come, and dwell with thy husband eternally.
R. M. F.


DIVINE LOVE.
God is over all, And His tender mercies
are over all His works.” Since He tender-
ly provides for all His creatures He will
certainly care for His children who trust in
Him. All who-live and trust Him will be


free from anxious care, and have every need
supplied through the working of His well
ordered Providence, for “to them that love
God all things work together for good.”
It is God’s care to provide for all who serve
and trust Him. It is our care to maintain
our trust and religious character, casting all
our anxiety upon Him “who taketh care for
us.” The ground of Divine care, and of
our love and trust is that God is our Father,
and that we are His earth born children.
Faithful and affectionate children have no
anxiety concerning their comfort and well
being, which is provided for them by their
careful parents. Through faith and right-
eousness the children of the Heavenly 
Parent may confidently trust the Divine
care and providence. All glory then to
Him who knew whereof He wrought. “All
glory too, to that transmitting power which
brings such sweetness from such bitter
things, good still from evil, bliss from bane,
from weakness strength, from losses gain.”
						L. M. H.


WORSHIP IN OLDEN TIME.
---
	If we could carry ourselves back to those
olden days, and were to approach a New
England village about nine o’clock on Sun-
day morning, we should hear some one beat-
ing a drum, or sounding a horn, or blowing
a conch shell, or possibly ringing a bell to
call people to worship.  If we came nearer
still, we should see a flag waving from a
log-built church or “meetinghouse.” En-
tering the village we should see a strong
fence of stakes around this meetinghouse,
and a sentinel in armor standing near it;
and we should see some of the men, as they
went in, leaving their muskets in his care.
We should, perhaps, see a cannon or two
planted near the meetinghouse; and we
should also see some strange wooden frames
not far off, these being the stock and the
pillory, put there to punish offenders.
Looking at this church we should see that
it had very few glass windows, and that
these had very thick and small panes, dia-
mond-shaped, and set in leaden frames.  We
should observe that the other windows had
oiled paper instead of glass; and we should
see between the windows the heads of
wolves that had been killed and displayed
there during the year.
	If we were to look inside the little church
we should not see the families sitting to-
gether, as now, but they would be dis-
tributed according to age, sex, or rank.  In
those days the old men sat together in one
place in the church, the young men in
another.  The boys all sat on the pulpit
stairs or gallery, with constables to guard
them.  Each of these constables had a wand
with a hare’s foot on one end and a hare’s
tail on the other.  These were to keep the
people awake.  If any woman went to
sleep, the constable touched her on the fore-
head with the hare’s tail; but if a small boy
nodded, he was rapped with the other end
not quite so gently.  No doubt the wand
was often used, for the services were some-
times three or four hours long, the sexton
turning the hourglass before the minister
at the end of every hour.  The only music
consisted of singing by the congregation
from a metrical version of the psalms, called
“The Bay Psalm book.” The whole num-
ber of tunes known to the congregation did
not exceed ten; and few congregations
could go beyond five.  This was the Puritan
form of religious service.  And people were


not allowed to stay at home from it; for
men called tithingmen were sent’ about
town to look for those that were absent.
Men were fined for every unnecessary ab-
sence; and, if they staid away a month to-
gether they might be put into the stocks or
into a wooden cage.—Hearth and Hall.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE Baroness Grippenberg, of Finland,
who has organized a women's council in
her native country, writes: "Look out or
you will be left behind by the council of
women who are Fins."
	MISS M. C. TAYLOR, of New Orleans, has
been appointed State librarian of Louisiana,
by Secretary of State T. S. Adams, and has
been in charge of the State Library since
the 10th of August, For four years Miss
Taylor has been assistant librarian of the
State library, Mrs. Cecile Hamilton having
been librarian for a number of years. Miss
Emma S. Adams, daughter of Hon. T. S.
Adams, is assistant librarian.
	MRS. GOUGAR spoke recently at a largely
attended meeting at Haverstraw, N. Y.
Upon her platform were ten clergymen, in-
cluding the rector of the Episcopalian
Church and Father McGare, of the Roman
Catholic, all voting Prohibitionists. It was
the first time the Reverend Father had ever
heard a woman speak in public, and he ex-
pressed himself as delighted, This world
moves.—Organizer, Indianapolis, Ind.


INTERESTING ITEM.

	WE have received the following notice from
Utah County which shows the women of that
County are wide awake in the interest of the
Utah Silk Exhibit in the World’s Fair. 
PROVO CITY Sept. 14, 1892
Editor EXPONENT: 
	We desire to inform all those having cocoons to
reel that we have engaged the services of a com-
petent reeler. Those wishing cocoons worked up
can confer with the President of the Silk Associa-
tion.
	Also wish to state that we are having a number
of dress goods woven at the Provo Mill and we
are about to make a Silk Flag for the World’s
Fair also a Silk Shawl and other minor articles.
M. A. TILL, Pres. U. C. S. A.
MATILDA OLSEN, Sec.


FRIDAY AND THE EAIR.
From the Washington Post. 
	It was on Friday that Columbus set sail from
Palos, Friday he first saw the new world, Friday
he reached Palos on his return, the 400th anni-
versary of the discovery falls on Friday, and on
Friday this country was Christened after Americus
Vespucius, the Florentine discoverer.—Omaha
Bee.
	It was on Friday that congress passed the bill
providing for the World's Columbian exhibition,
the bill was signed by the president on Friday,
on Friday congress determined in favor of
Chicago as the place for holding the said exhibi-
tion, on Friday the committee agreed to report
the five-million loan bill to the house, on Friday
the loan was incorporated in the sundry civil bill
on Friday the “Durborow bill” was introduced,
amended so as to make a gift of $2,500,000 to the
exhibition instead of a loan of $5,000,000, on Fri-
day the gift bill passed both houses, and was
signed by the president on Friday.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, --Editor.
Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street,
second gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	SEPTEMBER 15, 1892.


AT HOME AGAIN.

	AFTER an absence of four weeks from our post
of duty, trying to rest and recuperate as well as
visit, we returned home to assume the every day
work of life. Many changes have taken place
during that time some that were very sad; a be-
loved baby grandchild had been called home,
though perfectly well when we went away, and
we were unable to reach here in time to see her
sweet face once more; how little we know when
parting from friends for only a short time what
may transpire ere we meet again. While away
we did not send home sufficient copy to get the
paper of September 15, out on time and therefore
must ask our patrons to forgive the delay. In
our next issue we will publish some notices
which ought to have appeared here, viz: the
death of the venerable and able woman Ernestine
L. Rose and also that of Geo. Wm. Curtis,
another Apostle of the Woman's cause.
	We also hoped to have made some notes of the
work Mr. Edmund Russell is doing in his particu-
lar line in Salt Lake City, of which we were unin-
formed until after our return home; having an-
ticipated his being already in San Francisco,
whither he intends to go about the first of
October. Really there are so many things that
deserve special mention and there is so little
space in a small journal that one cannot do
justice, but we shall hope to make some good
notes for October 1, which will soon be here, and
also the Conference and the Territorial Fair
which brings many people consequently im-
portant news and business to the City.
	The Woman's Department of the World's Fair
have been holding meetings and making some
progress in the work of organizing and distribut-
ing information, circulars etc. Abroad in the
world things do seem to be hurrying on to a cli-
max and events significant of momentous
changes are transpiring. Prophecies of the
Scriptures and of modern prophets are being
rapidly fulfilled so that—"He that runneth may
read."
	The Convention of the Pacific Coast Woman's
Press Association will be held in San Francisco
Sept. 21, 22, and 23. Miss G. L. Brown of this
City has gone there to attend its sessions, we too
had hoped to go but were disappointed at the
last moment, in fact there is too much to do at
home.


BABY ELEANOR.
	SAD indeed is the sudden death of a little child
even though all know who read the Scriptures
aright that “Of such is the kingdom of heaven.”
Fair and sweet and beautiful was the little
darling of whom we write. Intelligent beyond her
age, sprightly in every action, winning and attrac-


tive in manner and expression, she was endeared
to all and had entwined herself so closely about
the hearts of her parents and little brothers and
sisters, that her departure must indeed leave an
aching void in the previously complete and happy
household.
‘‘There is no flock, however watched and tended,
But one dead lamb is there!
There is no fireside, howsoe’er defended,
But has one vacant chair.”
	Eleanor Adey Cannon, infant daughter of John
Q. and Annie Wells Cannon, was born in Ogden,
January 24, 1891, and died at the family residence
there August 29, 1892 at the age of one year,
seven months and five days.
	The little one’s illness which was pronounced
cerebral spinal menengetis only lasted two days
and on the morning of the third about seven
o’clock she fell asleep to waken no more until
the resurrection morn. The father, mother and
little brothers and sisters were with the dying
babe who breathed her last in the fond mother’s
arms. Never was a little one more tenderly be-
loved; all that love and constant care and atten-
tion could bestow she received during her brief
stay here. But God knew best and “He giveth
and He taketh away.”
	Friends were near with kind words and loving
hearts to do all in their power for those so sorely
bereaved. Gifts of flowers brought with tender
messages and everything that affection could
suggest.
	Wednesday morning August 31, the immediate
family with relatives and friends,bringing the little
casket with them came to this City in a special 
car; at the depot here they were met by Presi-
dent George Q. Cannon and the other relatives
of both families, Cannon and Wells, and the pro-
cession proceeded to the cemetery, where the
funeral services were held in the open air.
Apostle Abraham H. Cannon having charge. A
quartette of young men led by J. D. Spencer sang
		“I need thee every hour,” etc.
After the singing which was heavenly, Bishop O.
F. Whitney made appropriate remarks express-
ing tenderest sympathy for the sorrowing rela-
tives and eloquently portraying the light and 
glory of the life beyond.
	The quartette then rendered the beautiful
hymn,
		“Shall we meet beyond the river” etc.
	Apostle Abraham H. Cannon tendered thanks
to all who had been helpful and kind during this
time of grief and affliction, and President Joseph
E. Taylor offered up a fervent prayer dedicating
and consecrating the ground,then the white casket
containing the body of little Eleanor was laid in 
the grave.
	The floral offerings were numerous and of the
choicest varieties of flowers, and beautifully ar-
ranged, in almost every form, stars, wreaths,
crosses, baskets, pillows, gates ajar, bouquets
and loose flowers, not a single spot that was not
covered with these emblems of purity.
Sweetly sleep thou little darling,
Angels sing thy lullaby,
Gentle vespers softly breathing
Of the sweeter bye and bye.


[Column 1]

﻿PINES, MINES AND STAGE LINES.

	FROM Wallace, Idaho, to Murray the County
seat of Shoshone County, twenty-two miles
distant by stage line is a most romantic drive and
positively delightful, if one has no nerves, or is
utterly destitute of fear. The mountains rise to
a stupendous height, and the road winds round
and round from one mountain to another passing
through deep ravines meanwhile, until at times
on the route you may gaze backward on four
roads or parts of the same road over which the
stage has passed. Those accustomed to the
drive think very little of the danger, and chat

[Column 2]

and laugh and discuss politics, or the live ques-
tion of the recent Strikes as though they were
traversing the safest route in the world.
	Talking of Strikes reminds the writer of the
present status of the troubles and the conditions
as existing on the ground, the U. S. Soldiers and
officers who have been ordered to the scene of
the late riot and who they are etc. The com-
panies were called from Ft. Keogh, Ft. Sherman,
Missoula, Spokane and Vancouver, and among
them were some officers who had been stationed
at Ft. Douglas in days gone by, and knew Utah
and some of her people well.
	We met in Wallace, Captain W. W. Mc'Cam-
mon a most polished gentleman and with
scholarly attainments, who remembered dis-
tinctly Bishop John Sharp, Captain Hooper,
Horace S. Eldredge, Esquire, the Hon. Wm.
Jennings and other leading men, and spoke kind-
ly of old friends and acquaintances in Salt Lake
City, asked particularly after Mrs. Jennings and
the daughters, also the Hooper girls and some
others. Leiut. Patterson was another of the
officers who had pleasant recollections of Salt
Lake City, and we met also two or three young
Leiutenants who recently entered the service at
Vancouver, and Ft. Sherman who knew one of
our boys now at West Point, "Brie," Briant S.
Wells. The ladies at Wallace have taken con-
siderable pride in entertaining the military, and
have we believe made their sojourn less tedious
at any rate than it would otherwise have been.
	Of the camp at Wallace and the hospitable
people we will have more to say later on, but in
this article we were describing the stage line to
Murray and the appearance of the country, which
is very like in many respects, dear old New Eng-
land, the pine woods are just as fragrant, and the
hemlock boughs as gracefully drooping, and the
ferns very similar, though the mountains are
higher and the newness of the whole, strikes one
as entirely at variance with the well-worn roads,
and hard trodden pathways, through the Eastern
woods. Then again the miners cabins and min-
ing tunnels are totally unlike anything in the
East; how men have the courage and diligence
to drill the solid rock as they do in these places
and invent ways and means and put in machinery,
blast and drill in these mountain regions, and
bring to the surface the silver and gold in such
rich quantities, is indeed wonderful. A great
deal of precious metal has been taken from this
part of the country known as the Coeur D'Alene's
and still the miners are prospecting and delving
into the mountain sides, and the supply seems to
be sufficient to keep a large number of men con-
stantly employed at a fair per centage for their
labor.
	To say the scenery is grandly picturesque does
not half express its beauty and therefore we
leave it to the imagination, and content ourselves
with telling some features of the landscape, and
the sentiment of lofty grandeur it inspires.
	After passing some way side towns and an at-
tempt at farming here and there, in a turn of the
road to your right is Carbon Centre; this place is
named we believe for a prospect of carbon which
proved false, but more generally known as "Kitty
Kavanagh ranch." There is a log house, com-
fortable looking, a barn and shed etc., a sort of
clearing, in what has the appearance of a strip of
meadow; a garden and field well tilled, cows,
pigs and chickens, horses too, we were told, and
the owner and proprietor who has established
herself in this lonely place and actually made
these improvements is a youngish unmarried
woman. She was born in Ireland, but has taken
out naturalization papers in Idaho and holds
legal possession of her property; knows how to
defend herself in her castle in the woods, and is
not afraid of anything. She owns some mines
too, that she has discovered herself, and works
sufficiently to hold them securely.


[Column 1]
Think of prohibiting a woman, with such pluck
energy and ability to maintain herself in the
heart of a wilderness, from being a full-fledged
citizen even to the franchise. She buys and sells
sows and reaps, plants and gathers her own
sheaves of wheat and of corn, raises her potatoes,
works her own mines, pays her taxes the same as
any man would do, but has not the legal right to
say who shall make the assessments on her
property, or what disposal shall be made of the
accumulation of taxes from her hardly earned
property. Such a woman it would seem in
justice to her courage, prudence and economy,
should have due consideration for the example
she has given to men in that locality. Her place
is a picture, a pastoral scene in the great wilder-
ness mountain country, we saw her one morning
standing near her cabin, clad in garments such as
another woman might wear, white basque, and
skirt of some brown material, feeding her brood
of chickens, and this little incident in itself having
heard something of her strange surroundings and
past history, gave a certain charm to the whole
affair, that was like an ancient tale, and our
thoughts went back to Hagar in the desert, and
we felt how much women had risen in dignity
and self-help since that day.
   A pretty romance containing much truth, and
delineation of character might be woven out of
this wonderful and mysterious character, who has
crossed the great ocean and the wide expanse of
land from the broad Atlantic into the Rocky
mountains and further still the land bordering on
or near the Pacific, plunged into the very depths
of the wilderness where bears, wolves, coyotes,
and savages abound, apparently without fear,
trusting perchance, or it may be rebellious and
defiant, who knoweth? Here is a problem to be
solved, a woman capable of living isolated from
human society, in voluntary solitude, apart from
the world, such an one must be a rare type, an
anomaly. It would be a pity if she should die, with-
out its being known,what has caused this peculiar
and unusual mode of life. She looks like other
women, she talks well, is kind-hearted, gives food
and shelter to the weary traveler and wayfarer,
when he is hungry or benighted; is somewhat
shrewd in the management of her property and
estate. She has undoubtedly deliberately chosen
this sort of life.
   One finds many things in this wild mountain
country widely different from the ideas previously
entertained. For instance one is apt to think,
that the people living so far removed from large
cities would be uncouth in manner, and not
versed in the etiquette of society of modern
times, in fact ignorant and uneducated for the
main part. Travelers and visitors here however,
soon find to their astonishment, that many of the
people gathered into these vales in the moun-
tains, are people of refinement and culture; they
have come here for health or for wealth, and
sometimes, linger because they love the country
and the associations they have formed here.
Hospitable to a degree unsurpassed in any lo-
cality,punctilious in respect to the little amenities
and courtesies of life.
Murray is no quite so flourishing apparently
as when we were here three years ago, but we
found some of the same people who were so pro-
fuse in their attentions then, still living here and
others had gone, some changes in family rela-
tions that were sad and surprising, but the beauty
of the pines and woodland walks was unchanged.
The pines murmured and sighed as sweetly and
pathetically as ever, and the nooks and dells in
the deep recesses or ravines, were as romantic
and fairy like. The shrubbery that gave the
most gorgeous effect to the scenery was the
beautiful mountain ash laden with great clusters
of scarlet berries, and these were set off and con-
trasted by the gracefully bending elderberry
bushes, that drooped laden with rich clusters of

[Column 2]
purple fruit; snowberries in great abundance,
gave a softening tone to the vivid colors and the
pretty hair-bells hung their dainty heads in all
sorts of rough places with a welcome sweetness
that mingled with the odor of pine and hemlock
wafting fresh fragrance through the ambient air.
   One cannot help a certain sense of restfulness
in these vast solitudes of nature, and thoughts
and memories are spontaneously awakened that
have been dormant in the soul for years, per-
chance for ages, who can tell? Truly as the im-
mortal Byron has said:
   “There is a pleasure in the pathless woods.”
Solitude hath its charms for a little season, the
murmuring pines however have voices that
sometimes seem almost human, they sing to us
the weirdest melodies, and one of imaginative
temperament could well fancy wood-nymphs in-
habiting these sequetered and lonely haunts in
the mountain wilds and fastnesses, where human
feet have scarce trod for lo, these many years,
save the wild red man, who bounded stealthily
through the woods in pursuit of game; the
woods resound now and then with the echoing
blasts of the miners fuse of powder and dynamite,
the mountains in places are being tunnelled and
the beautiful forests cut away that the gold and
the silver may be quarried through veins of min-
eral from the heart and bowels of these solid and
stupendous mountains, that men may grow rich
and prosperous in the earth, may build great
cities and carry out the discoveries of arts and
sciences brought to light in this age of invention
and enterprise.
   In our next we shall give a description of a trip
to the Gem mine, and other interesting incidents
of our visit to this country of pines and mines.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTE.
	THE Quarterly Conference of the Relief Society
of this Stake of Zion will be held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall in this City on Friday, September
23, meetings commencing at 10 a. m., and at 2 p.
m., as usual. Officers from all the branches of the
Society in the county are urgently requested to
come, that there may be a fair representation of
the work with its growth, development and pro-
gress temporally and spiritually.


[Column 1]

JOHN GREENLEAF WHITTIER.

	THE distinguished New England Quaker Poet,
J. G. Whittier, departed this life Sept. 7, 1892.
Deceased was born Dec. 17, 1807 and was in his
85th year at the time of his passing away. Per-
haps there has not been an American writer so
near to the hearts of the people as this beloved
and illustrious poet and patriot. Certainly his
heart overflowed with love of all good and noble
and humane work for the uplifting of the human
family.
	The greatest poets America has produced,
Bryant, Longfellow and Whittier, are gone now
and who shall take their places? To be sure the
works they have produced are living still and
will be as long as American literature survives,
but they are gone to the higher life beyond.
	The great, noble and grand labors of Mr.
Whittier in the anti-slavery movement the active
part he performed during those early days when
anti-slavery was very unpopular, are worthy the
proudest recognition by all true lovers of liberty.
	Mr. Whittier was for forty years one of the
most staunch, firm and ablest friends of the cause
of woman suffrage that the country has produced.
At the time of his death he was Vice-President
of the Massachusetts Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion.
	Recently Mr. Whittier made the following
emphatic declaration so says the Woman's
Journal: "For forty years I have not hesitated to

[Column 2]

declare my conviction that justice and fair deal-
ing, and the democratic principles of our govern-
ment, demand equal rights and privileges of
citizenship, irrespective of sex. I have not been
able to see any good reasons for denying the
ballot to women."
	Here is another very forcible expression of Mr.
Whittier's on this subject. "A prophecy of your
triumph at no distant day is in the air; your op-
ponents feel it and believe it. They know that
yours is a gaining and theirs a losing cause.
You can afford in your consciousness of right to
be as calm and courteous as the Archangel
Michael, who we are told in Scripture, in his
controversy with Satan himself, did not bring a
railing accusation against him."
	Although the death of this illustrious poet,
patriot and Christian casts a shadow over those
who loved him, yet his death was simply beauti-
ful. The passing from this dark and benighted
world into the light of eternal day, with such a
record as he had made must have been a triumph.
	It was our good fortune in the winter of 1886 to
meet the venerable gentleman and poet Mr.
Whittier at his own, old home in Amesbury.
Some interesting items of that visit were pub-
lished in the EXPONENT after our return home,
but we have never felt that we could give expres-
sion in words to the enjoyment of that day.
	We conversed together like familiar friends.
It was a very cold wintry day, the wind blew
fiecely outside, and no other visitors ventured
out, therefore there was a better opportunity for
talking. Mr. Whittier informed the writer it was
the first time he had seen a "Mormon" woman,
and he seemed to take a special interest in in-
quiring concerning our faith and practises, in the
most kindly manner. We talked of woman suf-
frage and he expressed then and there his im-
plicit faith in the principle of equality of sex.
Poets and poetry were topics alluded to and he
asked several questions regarding some of
our writers of whom he had heard notably
Eliza R. Snow and Parley P. Pratt. Very deli-
cately he put the question 'And have I not heard
that you sometimes write verses as well as edit a
paper?" The question led us farther on and on
and finally when about to say good-bye after he
had given a picture of his room and one or two
other remembrances, he so insisted on our re-
maining and dining with him that it would have
been positively rude to refuse.
	His voice was sympathetic, his manner courtly
and tender, his words well-chosen and impres-
sive Altogether he was decidedly charming in
appearance and bearing.
	Among the precious relics stored away by the
writer is a letter from this renowned author and
poet which is to be carefully preserved and
handed down to our children and grand-children.
	With the name and fame of the poet Whittier
are associated many illustrious heroes of the
time, nearly all of whom went on before him.
Wm. Lloyd Garrison, Wendell Phillips, James
Russell Lowell, Lucretia Mott and only re-
cently George William Curtis, and Ernstine L.
Rose. The three during this month were
George William Curtis, John G. Whittier and
Ernstine L. Rose.
	Oliver Wendell Holmes for so many years his
true and well-tried friend must feel bereft in-
deed. Among this class of men who have not
been mentioned here one remembers of the de-
parted N. P. Willis, Bayard Taylor, Walt Whit-
man, Henry Ward Beecher and others, gone
but not forgotten.
	The following poem was written by Mr. Whit-
tier a very short time before his death to his dear
and life-long friend Oliver Wendell Holmes.

Among the thousands who with hail and cheer
	Will welcome thy new year,
How few of all have passed, as thou and I,
	So many milestones by!


We have grown old together; we have seen,
Our youth and age between.
Two generations leave us, and today
We with the third hold way.
Loving and loved. If thought must backward
run
To those who, one by one,
in the great silence and the dark beyond
Vanished with farewells fond,
Unseen, not lost; our grateful memories still
Their vacant places fill.
And, with the full-voiced greeting of new friends,
A tenderer whisper blends.
Linked close in a pathetic brotherhood
Of mingled ill and good,
Of joy and grief, of grandeur and of shame,
For pity more than blame—
The gift is thine the weary world to make
More cheerful for thy sake,
Soothing the ears its Miserere pains,
With the old Hellenic strains.
Lighting the sullen face of discontent
With smiles for blessings sent.
Enough of selfish wailing has been had,
Thank God! for notes more glad.
Life is indeed no holiday; therein
Are want, and woe, and sin,
Death and its nameless fears, and over all
Our pitying tears must fall.
Thy hand, old friend! the service of our days,
in differing moods and ways,
May prove to those who follow in our train
Not valueless nor vain.
Far off, and faint as echoes of a dream,
The songs of boyhood seem,
Yet on our autumn boughs, unflown with spring,
The evening thrushes sing.
The hour draws near, howe’er delayed and late,
When at the Eternal Gate
We leave the words and works we call our own, 
And lift void hands alone
For love to fill. Our nakedness of soul
Brings to that Gate no toll;
Giftless we come to him, who all things gives,
And live because He lives.
—Atlantic Monthly, for September.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MRS. MAY WRIGHT SEWALL.

	AN acute observer of personal growth has said
that in five years the three most prominent wo-
men in this country would be Mrs. William C.
Whitney, Mrs. Potter Palmer and Mrs. May
Wright Sewall. The news of Mrs. Sewall's
triumphs abroad this summer which come to us
through exchanges copied from foreign papers
would seem to confirm such a prophecy at least
as far as her part of it is concerned. Rarely has
an American woman been so feted. Receptions
were given her in all the leading cities of
Germany and her visit with the Empress
Frederick will do much for the cause of woman.
In a long conversation the Empress expressed
the deepest interest in the plans of the National
and International Council of Women and also in
the plans for the womens congresses at the
World's Fair. Her Majesty requested Mrs. Sewall
to continue in correspondence with her.
	This success was repeated in Brussels and
Paris, Mrs. Sewall lecturing in both French and
German. Her portrait was published in "Le 
Monde Illustre," and interviews and portraits in
more than sixty French papers. This pen-
portrait is from the Paris Figaro.--"Among the
many guests of distinction Paris counts in this
moment--Mm. May Wright Sewall one of the
most distinguished women of the United States--
une belle personne, un visage sympathique, encadre
d' une chevelure d' un blanc de neige. One must
not believe that Mrs. Sewall partakes in the 
question of 'rights,' of those exaggerated ideas
which, in France and elsewhere, would for
example, make masculine the vestments and
suppress those thousand graces which form the


parure of a woman and give her her greatest
charm. Far from this Mm. Sewall is fort
recherchee in her toilettes,un bein coquette meme."
E.


DEATH OF A SWEET CHILD.

Dear Aunt Em:
   May I tell your readers about a little girl whose
loving ways and sweet disposition endeared her
to all who became acquainted with her?
   Grace Victoria, daughter of Thomas G. and
Jane Batt Winn, was born of Smithfield, Cache
County, on the 29th of February, 1884. Her
home was in Smithfield until the spring of 1890,
since which time, with her mother and two
brothers, she has lived in Salt Lake City, until
her death, which occurred on the morning of
August 4, 1892.
   Little Grace had been a great sufferer, for more
than a year from the effects of scarlet fever.
These were rheumatism, and then dropsy and
disease of the heart, which rendered her little
life a burden instead of the joyous, happy time
generally known to childhood. Yet she was so
patient, and usually so cheerful that it was very
outching to watch or listen to her.
   Often, she would request those who were
around her to sing for her; and at the time when
her last breath was drawn, they were singing her
favorite hymn, "O! my Father, Thou that
dwellest," she opened her eyes for a moment and
smiled upon her friends, last of all, her mother,
then closed them as if in peaceful sleep.
   She loved her Sunday School and Primary As-
sociation very much, and so won the hearts of
her little associates of the 11th Ward, (where she
had lived most of the time since coming to the
City,) that every attention they could bestow
upon their suffering friend was gladly given by
the little girls. At her funeral, members of the
Primary of the 11th Ward and their President,
Sister Louie Felt, with her Counselors, sang the
sweet hymns of peace and rest Gracie had loved
so much in life. Six of the little girls were also
the pall bearers. The little white coffin was
covered with lovely flowers; one beautiful white
floral pillow, bearing in its center in purple
blossoms, the sweet name, "Gracie," was pre-
sented by the Primary to which she had belonged
and will be preserved as a precious memento by
the sorrowing mother and little brothers.
   The services were conducted by Bishop Robert
Morris of the 11th Ward. Very consoling and in-
structive words were spoken by Elders Wm. W.
Salmon, L. W. Richards, J. H. Felt, E. J. Brooks,
and Bishop Morris. Many friends were in attend-
ance from different wards. At the grave, the
dedicatory prayer was offered by Elder Joseph H.
Felt. Then "O! my Father Thou that dwellest,"
was sung; and ittle Gracie's remains were left to
the sweet repose of the pure and innocent.
	LOUISA.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

PANGUITCH.

Editor WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
   Dear Sister: Our annual conference con-
vened August 3, agreeable to appointment,
had a very good attendance of both home
and visiting sisters.
   After singing, Patriarch J. L. Heywood
opened the meeting services with Prayer.
Hymn sang "Lord we come before thee 
now." President Barbara Myers made a 
few opening remarks, felt thankful for this 
opportunity of meeting again in this 
capacity, also for the visit of the sisters from 
Salt Lake City.  Would like to hear the 
[Column 2]
reports from the different branches of the 
Society in the Stake. 
Counselor M. B. Heywood of Panguitch 
was sorry the President was unable to at-
tend through sickness, so it became her
duty to represent the Society hoped to be 
able to do it truthfully and satisfactorily,
could say that the Society was alive and do-
ing a little, out of one hundred and fifteen 
names enrolled had an average attendance 
of about twenty, just a few who kept the
Society along, felt that there was a good 
spirit among the sisters and that the Society 
was a blessing.
   Sister Heaps of Escalanta reported their 
Society in a very fair condition, was pleased 
to meet with the sisters again, as it was six-
teen years since she moved away. 
Sister Isabella King reported the King-
ston, had but eight members, consequently 
did but little, still felt blessed in being or-
ganized. 
Sister Ruby reported Circle Ville, had 
thirty members enrolled and an average at-
tendance of eight, sometimes felt almost
discouraged in trying to keep up the meet-
ings. 
   Sister Esther King reported Marion, had 
thirty members enrolled, but were badly 
scattered, mostly living on ranches, all 
seemed to feel well and willing to attend 
when possible.
   Sister Elizabeth Howard of Salt Lake 
City was introduced and addressed the con-
ference, regretted that we had not convened
in the Tabernacle owing to the heat and 
crowded room. Hoped every sister repeated 
in her heart the opening prayer, found 
things here about the same as elsewhere, 
said why was it the sisters in Zion would 
neglect their meetings, instructed the teach-
ers upon their duties, and advised them to 
go in humble prayer before going out to 
teach. Spoke at some length upon that 
and other subjects. 
Sister Della Eardley of Salt Lake City,
was next introduced as a representative 
from the Y. L. M. I. A. began her remarks 
by reading the second Hymn, spoke upon 
the subject of prayer; and the record 
we make each day, should study and emu-
late the lives of all great and good men and
women.
   Counselor Sarah P. Crosby spoke a few 
words in explanation of our conference be-
coming annual instead of quarterly as else-
where. Singing, prayer by A. Reding. 
   2 p. m., Sisters convened in the Taber-
nacle, hymn sang "Oh, my Father," 
Prayer by Haden W. Church. Singing 
"Praise ye the Lord." 
Sister Pinney reported the Georgetown 
Society, Sister Lafevre the Cleveland both 
in about the same condition as other
branches.
   Sister Eardley again addressed the con-
ference, spoke at some length upon the evils 
of Sabbath breaking, the word of wisdom,
and the government of children.
   Sister Howard followed with excellent 
instructions on different subjects, referred to 
many evils indulged in by our young people,
one of which was excessive waltzing con-
trary to counsel. Tendered Sister Zina's 
love to the sisters and solicited their faith
and prayers in her behalf, closed with a few 
words in behalf of the EXPONENT and 
Deseret Hospital. 
President J. W. Crosby also spoke of the
evils of Sabbath breaking, and thought the 
sisters in Zion were living their religion 
better than the men.
   President Barbara Myers endorsed what


had been said, and thanked all the sisters
who had come to attend this conference.
Announced a meeting for the Primary
Thursday afternoon.
	Mary Sevy gave notice that the Young
Ladies would meet at 8 o'clock. Hymn
sang "The Spirit of God," benediction by
President J. W. Crosby.

PANGUITCH PRIMARN.
	The Primary children met at 2 p. m.,
and sang "Ere you left your room this
morning," prayer by Patriarch J. L. Hey-
wood, singing "Beautiful Zion built
above."
	Bishop Miller announced the necessity of
reorganizing the Primary as the former
president had moved away. Sister Mary
E. Schow was elected President, Mary Ann
Cheele and Susanna Lambert as Counselors,
Adalaid Tebbs, Secretary.
	Sister Eardley spoke to the children upon
many subjects, dwelt at length upon the
mission of Joseph Smith the Prophet.
	Sister Howard followed with many good
things for the children, long to be remem-
bered.
	Those sisters just elected to office were
requested to remain at the close of the meet-
ing and be set apart. Singing "There is
beauty," benediction by President J. W.
Crosby. Conference adjourned for one
year.
			H. A. CROSBY, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

"WHY SO MANY MEN DO NOT
MARRY.

	SOME thoughts have been suggested to
my mind through reading an article upon
this subject in the May 15th Number of the
Juvenile Instructor, which was written by
the Editor of that valuable magazine. The
result of a conversation with "a young man
of good education, and of an old American
family, who from his position had access to
the best society."
	This young man in conversing upon the
subject which I take for my text, stated it
something after this fashion. "My friends"
he said, "are wealthy, I am welcome to
their houses, I see the luxury with which
they are surrounded and to which their
daughters are accustomed; and however
strongly I might be inclined to marry, my
respect for these young ladies is such that I
have not dared to ask one of them to share
my lot and be my wife. My circumstances
are such that I could not furnish them with
that style of living. I do not want to ask
a girl to step down and occupy an inferior
position. Besides by marrying I would de-
prive myself of advantages, which as a
single man I now enjoy. These considera-
tions restrain me from marrying, and they
restrain many more of my acquaintances."
	The Italics are mine. I like the refresh-
ing candor of this young man upon one
point viz. "that by marrying he would de-
prive himself of advantages which he now
enjoys," and it is my opinion that this is
the main spring, which moves the whole
man-marrying-machinery.
	The Editor further says, "In Utah we
are beginning to experience the same influ-
ences that have operated to bring marriage
into disfavor elsewhere. In view of these
things parents cannot be too careful in
training their daughters, so that they have
correct feelings upon this subject."
	Concerning the condition of affairs in

[Column 2]

Utah, I fully agree with our beloved
brother. Concerning the advice to parents
about the training of their daughters, I feel
sure that he will pardon me when I say,
that according to my views, he might with
great propriety have added and their sons.
	That a spirit of extravagance is rife in
our midst I am only too painfully sensible
of! My heart aches, and so I am sure do
those of many other mothers, who see their
children partaking of the spirit of the world
that has come amongst us, which fosters
extravagance, by which means class dis-
tinctions are brought about, and the pass-
port to "good society" would to a sensible,
deep-thinking observer, seem to consist in
the disposition and ability, to spend for
their own self indulgence, the means which
their fathers and mothers have toiled hard
in their younger days to accumulate in
order to have something laid by for old age
and possible infirmity, in the accumulation
of which, they have probably denied them-
selves of every luxury and possibly the
comforts of life.
	And what is "good society" according to
the general acceptation of the term in our
day?
	Well opinions differ upon this point as
well as upon all others, what goes by that
name, by some, might be termed merely
fashionable society. And while one hold-
ing that opinion might be thought by some
not competent to judge, by another equally
as intelligent they might be thought to be
the very best authority, and so it goes, each
judging from his or her own standpoint to
which they have a perfect right.
	For instance, one set of people endowed
with the gifts of wisdom and knowledge,
industry and economy, of truth and virtue,
charity and benevolence, of temperance,
honesty and integrity, and all the refining
elements, which go to make up a noble
character, might consider that a class of
people possessing these qualities might be
called "good society."
	While yet another set, who devotes its
time to a study of the fashion plates, attend-
ing operas, balls, excursions, promenades,
and amusements of any and every kind in
and out of season, willing and seemingly
determined, to spend the means which
others have earned, scorning to perform the
like labors by which others have earned it,
drinking gambling, debauching, leading the
innocent and unwary astray, might consider
that such only could claim the title of "good
society."
	So each class may set up a standard for
itself, and by its influence draw those to
them who are congenial, but it will be like
a pebble cast into a body of water, which
forms its own circle, but whose extent is
limited, another, cast in the same silent
stream, makes a separate one just as dis-
tinct. While wealth is a mighty factor in
moving the machinery, which carries on
the affairs of this world, I think it is very
much over-estimated as a means of bringing
about happiness.
	This representative "young man" whom
we have been quoting, confesses that by
marrying, he would deprive himself of
many of the advantages which he now en-
joys.
	As I before said, I believe this to be the
main spring of the situation! Let us look
a little more closely into the evidence before
us. For whom does the average young lady
dress, and adorn her person, if it is not for
this same young man? does he not generally
seek for the most fashionably dressed young

[Column 3]

lady at the balls, picnics, etc. Does he not
by his own admission, "visit at the houses
of the rich and fashionable," thereby giving
the impression that, that is what suits him?
also giving the young ladies whom he visits
reason to think that it is "their sweet society"
which he craves, and what more natural
than for them to imagine him to be in love,
and that he wishes to secure love in return
for all time. Are they not justified in
thinking, that if he prefered another's
society than their own, he would seek it?
	As custom, controls in these matters, and
men are free to seek whom they will,
would it not be easy for a man who oc-
cupies a position yeilding only a moderate
salary, to find among the many overworked
women of his world, one whom he could
love for her good qualities, and perhaps
equally as pretty face, fine talents, aud en-
gaging manners as her more fortunate
sister under cultivation, (which he might
be the means of assisting, when she became
his wife) that the world might be better for
his having lived in it.
	When a man confesses, that he dilly
dally's around the rich and fashionable who
would not make him welcome, if he were
not their equal in fortune, he confesses to
about the same kind of a weakness, which
a girl displays when she indulges in ex-
travagance in order to catch him, only to
find that she is blamed for his disinclination
to marry on account of her extravagance.
I am of the opinion that the stock repre-
sented by the aforementioned "young man"
may as well be allowed to run out. There
is already too many of him; and marriages
entered into with such men, generally end
in the Divorce Court.
	But to come to our own children. If
they could be converted to the Gospel, they
would marry.
	Marriage is an institution of so sacred a
nature that it should not be lightly entered
into, and unless young people view it also
in that light, it had better not be under-
taken. It seems to me that the most fre-
quent cause of divorce, lies in the careless-
ness with which people now-a-days enter
into the matrimonial state, either on the
part of one, or both, of the contracting
parties. If a man looks upon marriage as
a divine command, he will be looking for a
whole-souled woman to link her destiny
with his, and if he is worthy of that kind of
a woman he will be preparing to take care
of her and her children.
	But if he is like a great many of the
young men among us today, our sons, who
cannot keep out of debt on a steady salary
of $2.00 per day with no one but them-
selves to keep, a young lady would display
a great deal of courage (my first thought
but I think recklessness a more suitable
term) to join forces with and attempt to
bear and rear a family by such a man, even
if she should get the chance.
	How many of our young ladies today are
working in factories, in families, in stores,
in schools, in dressmaking and millinery
stores, in printing offices, in lawyers offices,
house cleaning, washing and ironing, hair-
dressing, as telephone and telegraph operat-
ers, typewriters, nurses, doctors, lawyers,
and in numerous ways earning their living,
and bid fair from all appearance, to go to their
graves unwed, while the young man with
nearly always a salary double the size of
theirs; and if he is in some professions, three
or four times as large, cannot keep out of
debt and afford to marry.
	As I said before, when our young people


[column 1]
﻿receive the Gospel, they will marry! When
they have learned that in this, the most
important event of their lives they require
the light of the Holy Spirit to guide them,
and humbly come before our Father, will-
ing to be guided, realizing that unions here
should reach into eternity, and proving
their faith by their works, there will no
worldly considerations enter into their cal-
culations upon this subject. But! what is
the mind and will of the Lord? Father
guide me to the one, with whom I can
journey in unity and love, through time
and all eternity.
	Why should people marry, unless they
marry in this spirit? To multiply their
species? To what end? That their offspring
may be destroyed when ripe in iniquity?
When "the sins of the fathers shall be
visited upon the children to the third and
fourth generation?” For has not God re-
vealed in this day and age in which we live,
that he will utterly destroy from off this
land, those who will not serve him and
keep his commandments?
	Our beloved brother further says: “Al-
ready some mothers are indulging in the
fear, and almost seem ready to justify them-
selves in the thought, that if their girls
marry they must go outside of the Church
to find husbands.’’
	“The indulgence in such a thought pre-
pares the way for such a result to be brought
about.”
	My opinion upon this point is, that no
girl who is a Latter-day Saint at heart, and
realizes the position in which she stands,
can for one moment entertain such an idea
as giving herself in marriage to a Gentile!
Indeed it would manifest a weakness, and
a lack of moral courage, which any well-
balanced, Latter-day Saint young lady
would be ashamed of. For if she had any
leaning that way, she would not dare, if
she understood things correctly, descend
from her high position as a Saint of the
most high God, to unite herself with one
who ignores Him! though millions were the
tempting bait.
	My opinion differs considerably from the
young man whom I have before quoted:
“who could not ask a girl to step down and
occupy an inferior position.’’ I think that
though a girl be accustomed to all the luxur-
es which wealth can procure,that when she
is united to a good and noble man, though
he be poor, she is exalted thereby, to an
extent to which she never can attain alone,
then how much more is she raised in the
scale of exaltation by becoming united to
one endowed with the Holy Priesthood;
with its wondrous powers and privileges
which she shares in connection with him.
She steps up from the groveling things of
this earth, and grasps the wealth of the
Gods! Gold is the power of this world.
The Priesthood is the power by which
worlds were formed and created, we have
it; and are the richest people upon the face
of the earth, though we were clothed in
rags! Now as to the mothers who “almost
seem ready to justify themselves in the
thought, that if their girls marry they must
go outside of the Church to find husbands.”
What a sacrifice they are willing to make!
When they left home, father, mother, all
their kindred in many instances; the graves
of their ancestors, and all they held dear in
this world, for the Gospel’s sake and the
hope of eternal life which it held out to
them in that hour, what would they have
said to one who would have tempted them
to have given up their principles for wealth
[column 2]
with a man of the world attached? has the
glitter of gold so blinded them that they
have lost sight of the greater riches of
eternity, if so, then no wonder that their
daughters wander away. If our children
are self-willed and will not be controlled
and we do our duty by them by precept and
example, then our skirts are clear of their
blood; but woe unto us as parents if we do
not our duty; we may revel in luxury, and
pass the time away in idle frivolity and in
pandering to the ways of the world, but the
day of reckoning will come, and God will
require of us the jewels committed to our
care, and woe unto us if we have betrayed
the trust.
	I will close my article with a few words
to the daughters of Zion. Preserve your-
selves in purity from the contaminating in-
fluences of the world, and above all, as I
said in an article which I wrote upon the
subject some years ago, and which I now
reiterate, “make yourselves worthy of the
best and noblest of men and resolve to ac-
cept no other’’ no matter what his social or
financial condition in life, favorable or
otherwise, they will only endure for time,
but see that he possesses those qualities that
will elevate him to the position of an exal-
tation in the celestial kingdom,and you cul-
tivate those qualities that will exalt you to
a place by his side, then you will have
taken a step toward the high destiny to
which you are entitled by being born in
Zion,in the New and Everlasting Covenant
of the Gospel, and if in the providence of
God our Heavenly Father, you may have
to wash for a living, be sure it will not de-
grade you! honest labor can never do that.
What wealth could our elder brother boast
of while he sojourned here upon the earth?
Did He not say, “The foxes have holes, the
birds of the air have nests, but the Son of
Man hath not where to lay his head,” and
are we better than He?
	We have to be tried in all things, that we
may know for ourselves the bitter as well
as the sweet, and hold all things at their
true value; then let us labor to “lay up
treasures in heaven, where moth and rust
doth not corrupt, nor thieves break through
and steal,” that when we shall come into
our inheritance, it may be an everlatsing
one, and we shall know that we have
earned it.
					C. C. R. W.
Salt Lake City, May 20, 1892.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Whereas the Allwise Father has seen fit to re-
move our dear sister, Orelia Hansen Edwards,
from this sphere of action, to a more exalted one
above, therefore be it
	Resolved, that we, her associates in the Relief
Society of the Diaz Ward, do deeply mourn her
loss and that we cherish her memory and emu-
late her many virtues.
	We can truly say that her failings “e’en lean
to virtue’s side.” She manifested that true
charity which flows from a sense of duty, and a
hope in God.
	Resolved, that we sincerely sympathize with
her many friends and colaborers as she was a
faithful laborer in the Manti Temple. Her whole
soul delighted in this work.
	Resolved, that we send a copy of this to the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and also place a copy on
our record.
	Farewell dear sister, rest in peace and may the
Lord grant that our future be as bright and hope-
ful as thine.
			LUCY E. JOHNSON, President.
			ANNA JORGENSEN,
			VERONA WHITING,
				Counselors.
			ADA EARL, Secretary.
COLONIA DIAZ, MEXICO, July 20th, 1892.


The best friends are those who stimulate
each other to good.


Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmedt
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 63 E.
FIRST SOUTH STREET,
Three doors west of Theatre.
MRS. M. E. VAN. M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p.m.
R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K.THOMAS
RIO GRANDE WESTERN RAILWAY
THE
STANDARD GAUGE
RAILWAY!

THROUGH THE
ROCKY MOUNTAINS!
Choice of Three Distinct Routes,
AND THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT RAILROAD SCENERY
IN THE WORLD.
Two Fast Express Trains Daily
EACH WAY BETWEEN
OGDEN, SALT LAKE AND DENVER.
ELEGANT RECLINING CHAIR CARS!
Free of Charge.
Direct Connections made in Union Depots.
THE MOST THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED RAILWAY
IN THE WEST.
D. C. DODGE, A. E.WELBY, J.H. BENNETT,
Genl. Mgr. Supt. G.F. & P.A.
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
AVD JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CIY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 21. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 1, 1892. No. 7.


CONTENTS.

	Soul Message—L. M. Hewlings. In Rural
England—A Story. Notes and News. Constitu-
tional Amendments N. A. W. S. A.—Rachel
Foster Avery. A Trip to Bannock Stake—M.
Isabella Horne. Empress Frederic and Wo-
men's Federation—May Wright Sewall.
	EDITORIAL:—Conference Notice. Relief Society
Conference. Primary Officers Meeting. Editorial
Notes. Utah World's Fair Commission—May
Preston, Sec'y. World's Fair Work. Delsarte
and Education. Edmund Russell and Delsarte.
Woman's Work on the Sandwich Islands—Libbie
Noal. Solution of the Labor Problem—W. G. C.
Edholm.
	POETRY:—Isabella—Hannah T. King. Vaca-
tion—Alfred L. Townsend. Whittier—Margaret
E.Sangster. The Deacon's Son—Mrs. L. S.
Dickinson.


[Column 1]
		ISABELLA.

OH, Woman! Genius, power, kingdoms,
Thrones, with all their charms, and prestige—
Sceptres, subjects, ministering spirits—
Hover round thy footsteps, to watch thine eye,
To catch thy lightest word and that obey;
To stand in highest altitude, erect and firm,
And ne’er turn dizzy with the regal height—
Who still is WOMAN, still her nature holds,
Pure, unsullied, as a queen should be,
Who has an ear for Truth, for Genius,
In whatever form it comes, though stript
Of worldly grandeur—all the world calls great;
And standing like the far-famed obelisks
Of far-famed Egypt, alone, unread,
With naught to herald it but that intense,
That persevering Genius God bestows
On those He singles out to do His work;
His work on earth where man his agent is,
And woman too, his partner and co-mate
In all the grand essential moves upon
The mighty chess-board of the game of life.
Such was Isabella, Sovereign of Castile
And Queen of Ferdinand and Spain.
To Ferdinand—himself a king—she brought
Her throne, her kingdom, subjects, and herself,
And laid them at the feet of him, to whom
More, more than all, she gave her loving heart—
A gem of which a monarch might yet be proud;
And he—most rarely found—proved worthy,
Of all the wealth she showered on his head.
They lived, and loved and reigned conjointly,
Hand and heart united in their regal work,
When lo! a man in humble guise presents
Himself, and with them craves an audience.
He is admitted. In person, regal
As the pair to whom he is presented;
She has an eye at once to read the man;
A heart to feel he bears upon his form
The duplicate of HIM who gave the mission,
And sustained throughout, in every need the man
Ferdinand gives attention—Isabella
Enthusiasm. She felt the man of God
A messenger direct, and hence prepared
To learn his mission and obey his voice.
Columbus spoke! and then at once a queen
Stood forth as the apostle of his cause;
A queen, a woman, a proselyte of truth,
A truth that did enrich his day and age;
Was first received by woman’s gentle heart;
Isabella was that woman, and she
Never waver’d, but until death was true.
Before her court’s indifference, before
His enemies, or his reverses, she
Believed him true, and was upon the throne
His proselyte, and to the grave his friend.

[Column 2]
Ferdinand, in this, was worldly-minded;
Isabella saw, with spirit eyes, he
Was a man of destiny! a man of God!
And told the man appointed to investigate
The claims Columbus advocated,
That they were haggling with God the price of
Empire, and of souls, whom to idolatry 
Their infidelity would leave. The king
Had not the faith that he could meet expense
So mighty as a naval outfit for
The man, who, in returning, promised
An Empire that should astound the world
And ages yet unborn.

Isabella listened to the colloquy, then with a
Burst of heavenly enthusiasm cried,
"I will undertake the enterprise alone
For my crown of Castile; I will pawn
My diamonds and my jewels, in MY eyes
Most worthless, compared with what is offered
By this great, good man, whom God has sent to
	us.”
This noble burst of woman’s feeling triumphed.
The king chagrined, consented to inspect
His treasury and see what could be done!
“Disinterestedness is the true wisdom
Of great politicians!” Columbus
Was re-called. He bow’s at the feet of her
Who’d nobly won for him the victory;
His soul was full of sweet emotions,
And she wept tears upon his noble head;
Ferdinand was moved and ratified the deed,
And into unknown seas the explorer passed.
						HANNAH T. KING.


[Column 1]

SOUL MESSAGE.

	WORDS are the lights which the genera-
tions carry, these kindle lamps along the
track of life, some of them give a glorious
lustre, clear as the most brilliant star, while
others are dim flickering and uncertain.—
We may read sermon's in stones and run-
ning brooks, it is said, and marvelous tales
are whispered through forest trees, through
song of bird and hum of bees, but there
came to me this hazy, chilly morning a
message through a small shell and little
pebble picked up on the shore of the sacred
Sea of Galilee. That little pebble and tiny
shell placed in my hands as a memento of
travel in the Holy Land were unconsciously
the bearer of a real soul message. It lifted
me from out the four square walls of my
room, bore me away from common cares
and common things and from all sense of
tired feet or weary brain.—Holding them
in my hand I went out with thee, dear one,
over the mountains and by the sea of Gali-
lee through the gardens of Jerusalem, to
the Red Sea, River Jordan bathed in its
tide, went up to the mountain of Tempta-
tion and over the plains of Gennesareth
wandered through towns and cities that
were once busy with life and swarming like
a great bee-hive, now in ruins, desolate and
deserted.
	 North and East, over the valleys and
cities of Syria, far beyond the great desert
to the plains of Assyria and Babylonia
where once were teeming multitudes and
magnificent palaces,—we stood together by
the mighty pyramids while they told us of

[Column 2]

the past greatness and splendor of a re-
nowned kingdom—we gazed out and over
the desolated, queenly City of Tyre once the
heart and centre in many respects ot the
world's life—we looked back and down the
ages where we saw countless caravans mov-
ing over the mountain passes and along the
narrow coast tracks bearing the wealth of
Arabia, of Babylonia, of India, and from the
busy harbor saw the mighty ships sail
away laden with the same merchandise for
the Colonies planted along the shores of
Greece, Italy, Africa and Spain.—Proud
City of Tyre! once rejoicing over the fall of
Jerusalem thinking to enrich thyself still
further from its ruin.
	Where is thy greatness and beauty now?
Where are the silver and fine gold that thou
didst heap up as the dust and as mire of
the streets? Where are thy swift horses
and magnificent gilded Chariots, thy sons
and daughters, and pleasant houses? Thy
lofty watch towers? Thy proud Navy and
Merchant princes? The Lord God has 
brought the deep upon thee, and great
waters covered thee," and thou who wert
once so famous art now but a heap of
ruins.
	The Hebrew prophet proclaimed the
message against thee which God had given
him. That message has been literally ful-
filled. Heaven and earth shall pass away
but my word shall not pass away.
			L. M. HEWLINGS.


IN RURAL ENGLAND. 
				XXIII. 
	And Jane Conway awakened by her
maid, was conscious of her wonderful dream,
and also of the realities of the present so
full of importance and of doubt and mis-
giving concerning herself. She dressed
hurriedly and was soon seated at the break-
fast table doing the honors as though
nothing had happened to disturb her
serenity.
	Burke and Hemenway were going away
but would ride over the adjoining grounds
first with Clair, and that was a relief, she
ardently hoped they would invite Dr. Bland
to join them; but why should she postpone
the issue that awaited her? She asked her-
self this question silently. “Cousin Anna 
you had better remain below and speak to
your guardian about your affairs when he
comes in this morning?” said Miss Conway
as she saw her cousin about to go as the 
Doctor came up the walk towards the castle.
O, my affairs are all right, I am not in the
least concerned, not half as much as I am
for you my dear cousin; you look pale and
tremble, you are not in love with Dr. Bland,
and yet you have promised, how I pity you,
why didn’t you ask Uncle Rob what to do?”
And as she spoke Jane blushed scarlet, but
Anna did not perceive it. “I know what-
ever you decide now will be right,” Anna
continued, “for you have such forethought
and measure everything you do with line 
and plummet, but here he is and now bon
jour,” and away flew Anna that her cousin
might be alone with the man she had pro-


[Column 1]

mised to marry. The interview was a long
one, Clair and his lawyers returned from
their ride, and the two men departed on
their journey in fact the sun was in the
meridian ere the Doctor and Jane emerged
from the drawing room. Both looked very
grave yet withal satisfied, and before an
hour had passed, Jane had informed Anna
that her marriage was to take place as soon
as the preliminary arrangements could be
made.
	"And I always thought you would be a
spinster and so did papa, and keep our house
and take care of us all and our children."
	"You were all wrong as you will see in a
few weeks, and my dear cousin you will be
the responsible person in the house, and it
requires tact to keep an establishment like
this in running order, everything is at
sixes and sevens now with this grand fete
and Mrs. Burke is on her high heels with
having her gentleman cousin down from
London, "the great solicitor of the late Sir
Edward," as she says, and it will take some
days now to get all the household machin-
ery in order again."
	"Dear Jane do give me a few lessons in
management before this wedding comes off.
By the bye where are you to be married?
and what will you wear, and how many
bridesmaids will you have? Do tell me all
about it!"
	"Dont talk so rapidly dear asking so
many questions in a breath, and I will an-
swer some of them. We are to be married
in the little Church near by, and as for
bridesmaids I had not thought of them at
all, and you know we are still in mourning
for my uncle, that decides the dress."
	"How very stupid, we went to balls and
parties in London, without the insignia of
mourning, why should you feel it essential
to wear black at a wedding, particularly the
bride, my old nurse told me when I was
a child that it was bad luck to wear black
to a wedding, and I'm sure it must be for
the bride to be in black."
	"That point is settled Anna neither the
Doctor or myself are at all superstitious,
and therefore it will make no difference
whatever your nurse may have told you."
	"How about the house cousin when can
we see it, will you go to day to look at it,
and take me with you? I thnk it must be
very nice to go to a new place, and not live
in such a weird, dusty, dark, old ruin as
this is, where the very owls and bats prowl
about at night."
	"As to that, I have a fondness for this
house, it has a history, that is exceedingly
interesting, think of the long line of an-
cestry that have occupied these rooms, and
the daring exploits of the brave men who
fought in the great battles of the country;
I love to look at the armory though it is
rusty and neglected."
	"I have no taste for all this paraphernalia,
I like the living present, full of life and
beauty and activity. Clair is welcome to
this tumble-down rookery, and I hope when
I marry Maitland that we shall have a new
house and live in London and visit all the
fine places, and not go round and round,
over and over, the self same identical places
and walks and drives, year in, and year out
as we do here; I'm so tired of this place,
and as for its history who knows it? I
didn't even know about my own mother
until uncle Rob told me."
	"I often fancy I see the people coming
and going through these rooms Lords and
Ladies and Dowagers, and hear them talk-
ing to each other indistinctly, and depend

[Column 2]

upon it Anna people are impressed by their
surroundings, whether you believe it or
not." said Miss Conway. "O, Jane you
make me feel queer, what has come over
you, to give way to such fancies? I shall
not like to stay here, when you are gone, if
you go on like this, I shall be expecting to
see something, one of those old men or wo-
men, who lived so long ago, really you
make one shiver with dread."
	"Anna these people are not coming back,
it is just my imagination that is so vivid, I
would like to see them if it were possible,
and if I should not be too much alarmed, I
want to know about the unseen. What has
any one ever told us that is satisfactory?
Nothing! absolutely nothing! Ask whom
you will, they don't know. My mother
told me more during her illness, of the
Bible and its teachings, than I have ever
heard from any one however learned.
There must be something in the future
more than our ministers teach, and I long
so to know, I yearn for that knowledge
which divines and philosophers talk of, but
they do not possess."
	"I'm sorry your not a minister yourself
Jane, you could tell us something more
than Mr. Phillips does, he is so stupid, he
can't talk about anything in the world, or
beyond."
	"My father was a clergyman and I may
have something of his nature and tendency,
but Anna my mother was as lofty in her
ideals and as pure in her aspirations, and as
conscientious in all her life as any minister
could possibly be however devoted, and I
feel that I shall some day find a better way
than we have been taught, one in which we
can do more good, we do not make any
sacrifices; we scarcely go out of our way to
relieve suffering: we nurse and tend our
own, and think in doing that we are hero-
ic."
	"Jane you do surprise me with your
peculiar views of morality and religion. I
know you have the most exalted ideas of
life and its service, and the Doctor will co-
operate with you in the charities that seem
suited to such temperaments as yours; as
for me I'm too indifferent to do good even
though I do appreciate it in you and honor
you for your freedom of thought and ex-
pression; just now I'm thinking of Mait-
land and that absorbs my time and intellect
too."
	"You have a kind heart Anna and should
circumstances change, you might yet feel
as I do that we should live for something
outside our own domain, experiences in life
often bring out rich qualites that have lain
dormant and neglected."
	"Don't say such dreadful things to me
Jane you make me feel like a culprit, its
very unpleasant—I'm sorry you are not in
a happier mood just after your interview
with Dr. Bland, he must have ruffled your
feathers methinks, I never knew you quite
so prosy."
	"I think we've talked enough on this
subject, but seriously Anna I never have
had so many grave reflections before,
possibly it is because of the new role I am
about to enter upon that is making me feel
how very important a thing it is to give
yourself into another's keeping."
	"It may make that sort of impression
upon you cousin Jane, but it seems to me
if I were to be married so soon I should be
the happiest girl alive, united with Maitland
never more to be separated to be always to-
gether henceforth, must bring superior hap-
piness."

[Column 3]

	"I trust you will find that sweet content
in your married life that will satisfy the
highest aspirations of the human soul my
dear Anna; for my own part I do not ex-
pect it, there mnst be somethlng higher in
the world than simply living on from day
to day as people do, and I long to reach
those high ideals that to us now seem un-
attainable. I would that I knew more of
science, the science of life, what it really is,
and for what purpose we were created."
	"Doctors know a great deal about those
mysteries don't they cousin? Dr. Bland
will be able to enlighten you on those points
surely when you are married."
	"Candidlly Anna he understands no more
than I do the things I long to fathom, nor
does any one I fear, we must have greater
knowledge to comprehend these occult
sciences. God alone knows; and the old
prophets had light revealed to them direct,
but in our day there is no revelation from
heaven save that which comes to us inward-
ly, these perceptions that we only feel but
cannot express."
	"I wish Jane you were better satisfied
with things as they are and not reaching
out after the unattainable, or if you want
knowledge, study with some of the great-
est divines and see whether they could tell
you the things yon long so ardently for."
	"No Anna I am going to marry Doctor
Bland and be a faithful, obedient submis-
sive wife—that seems to be the line of duty
marked out for me now, only occasionally I
have these misgivings and then I shake
them off and bury myself in everyday
work, nevertheless the time will come when
women will have a broader platform to
work upon and life will be so much more
desirable."
	This conversation showed plainly the
drift of Miss Conway's mind and heart.
She was a women of strong mentality,
capable of great undertakings, and she felt
within her the boundless possibilities of a
mighty work in raising the standard of wo-
manhood, to a lofty independence and free-
dom of thought and action, but she realized
how helpless woman herself was under ex-
isting conditions; yet the prophecy of the
future was prescient within her soul.
	Time sped onward rapidly and Jane
Conway realized how soon the wedding
ceremonies must be solemnized. She had
sometimes accompanied the Doctor in his
morning visits to patients in the vicinity
carrying with her flowers and delicacies such
as invalids require and withal taking into
these lowly homes a sweet influence and a
spirit of cheerfulness, and many a dear old
soul had said, "what a happy pair, how
well they are mated." The Spring had
come and the fields and meadows were
green with the fresh grass, and dotted with
cowslips and butter-cups, the hedges were
teeming with fragrant blossoms that filled
the air with sweet perfume and on every
tree the birds were caroling songs of melody
and all nature rejoiced in the spirit of love-
liness.
	Maitland Walton had returned from the
metropolis and every day rode to the castle,
Lady Anna and Clair joining him in riding
or walking through and around the beauti-
ful grounds and parks that were teeming
with beauty and bloom. Lady Anna was
profoundly happy and everything wore
color de rose for her; and she could not see
why her cousin should be so melancholy, at
the approaching nuptials.
	Coming into the room one day suddenly
after a saunter through the fields she dis-


covered her cousin in tears, and without
stopping to consider, threw her arms around
her and thinking to console her; with tell- 
ing her good news said, “don’t cry Janie
Uncle Rob is coming and we shall have the
jolliest times and he’ll be best man at the
wedding.” The very best medicine Jane
Conway could have had was to hear that
Mr. Harrison was coming, for she knew
she must be brave now, there must be no 
shadow on her brow, he must not suspect
her secret (if in deed she had one) and to
avoid her cousin Anna’s suspicions of the
real cause of her desponding, she professed
to be delighted at the same time inwardly 
accusing herself of hypocrisy.
	“When is your Uncle coming?” she in-
quired as if apparently anxious. “We
must prepare rooms for him Anna, you
know he likes apartments rather secluded
as he has so much writing to do; I will see
to it immediately, it may take some time to
get the rooms well aired, for Mrs. Burke
will persist in keeping them so close, that
they really get musty.” All this to keep
Anna from noticing her excitement and
away she went to look after the comfort of
the expected guest. And sure enough she
had not much time to lose, for he arrived
the same night. Miss Conway was not
there to greet him, though he asked for her
directly after his coming into the house,
	“And what a dear old place this is,” he
said to Anna, “it is like a fairy tale or le-
gend to be here, everything is so quaint and
antique; one ought to have wonderful
dreams of the past in a place like this
whether waking or sleeping. And so your
cousin is to be married very soon Clair tells
me” said he addressing Anna “and the
Doctor, is he young and accomplished that
he carries off such a prize?”
	“No Uncle Rob he is not young he is get-
ting grey, but he is very wise and good,
and excellent in every respect.”
	“And so is your cousin wise and good as
you say of the Doctor, I hope she will be
happy, she deserves the best of husbands;”
this last with an emphasis that made Anna
stare, and she wondered why he was so
particular about the matter. “You will
see Dr. Bland tomorrow I’m sure, Uncle
Rob and of course you will like him; the
wedding is to take place a week from
tomorrow.”
	“So soon,” said her uncle, and Rob Har-
rison with out further comment, asked to
be shown to his room.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


VACATION.

		BY ALFRED L. TOWNSEND.

A stretch of rapids, shadow flecked;
	A fringe, of rushes, fresh and green;
A sloping mountain, pine bedecked;
	A waste of brush, spread in between;
A breath of breezes softly blown,
	A whispering sound of rustling leaves;
A haze the forest fires have thrown;
	A mossy rock the water cleaves;
A slender willow river swung;
	A circling eddy cool and dark;
Some far off music softly sung,
	A floating bit of broken bark,
 A shady nook beside the stream,
	A dainty hand. A lovelit eye;
’Tis joy to live, ’tis bliss to dream,
’Twould be a pleasure e’en to die.
		The Carlifornian Illustrated Magazine.


WHITTIER.

BY MARGARET E. SANGSTER.

HIS fourscore years and five
	Are gone, like a tale that is told.
The quick tears start, there's an ache at the
		heart,
	For we never thought him old.

Straight as a mountain pine,
	With the mountain eagle's eye,
With the hand clasp strong, and the unhushed
		song,
	Was it time for him to die?

Prophet and priest he stood
	In the storm of embattled years;
The broken chain was his harp's refrain,
	And the peace that is balm for tears.

The hills and the valleys knew
	The poet who kept their tryst.
To our common life and our daily strife
	He brought the blessing of Christ. 

And we never thought him old,
	Though his locks were white as snow.
O heart of gold, grown suddenly cold,
	It was not time to go.
			Harper's Weekly.


THE DEACON’S SON.

THE Deacon and his son Bill,
   Live on a farm down East.
Each, had the others ill will
   It seemed, for life time leased.
Somehow, they never could agree,
   To please both, you dar’nt please one.
Some grieved and wondered why,
   Others said, he’s a Deacon’s Son.

Bill was queer from the first.
   The older he got, the queerer he grew,
When most boys were at home,
   He was somewhere, nobody knew,
But me, and I dar’nt tell
   The stern, old Deacon his father,
He had gone to visit the widow, 
   Just to save the Deacon the bother.

A kind heart had he, and a will
   That was never known to weaken.
When others were gone, he stayed home,
   And took care of the Deacon.
Tilled the farm like an old man,
   Fed the young that had no mother;
But when the father loved the widow,
	The son would love no other.

One day—Bill was happy then,
   He found the Deacon smiling and said,
With dignity rare in one so young,
   Father, she’s my choice. May we wed?
The Deacon suddenly grew tall, and 
   Looked as if his life’s work was done,
Then answering in withering tones
   Said: “No he’s a Deacon’s son.’
					MRS. L. S. DICKINSON,


NOTES AND NEWS.

	May Wright Sewall is compiling an article
for a syndicate of papers on "The President's
Home."
	The Indian exhibit at the World's Fair
will include representatives of every tribe
from the extreme north to Terra del Fuego.
	Sarah Janette Duncan, the Countess Nor-
raikow, Frances Harrison, Sophie Almon-
Hensley and Mrs. Sarah Curzon are dis-


tinguishedCanadian newspaper women who
have made their mark. 
	Laura Sedgwick Collins, the talented
Lyceum entertainer, is called by critics the
Mrs. Scot-Siddons of America. She has a
composite frame. She is a scholar. She is
a writer. She is a musician. She is a
beautiful woman.
	MISS SOPHIA C. HAYDEN has been call-
ed to Chicago to furnish designs and dimen-
sions of the Woman’s Building, of which
she is the architect, for the information of
those women throughout the country who
desire to furnish certain parts which are to
be ready for placing in the building before
they are presented. Miss Hayden expects
to be able to have these designs and dimen-
sions ready to send out by the last of the
present month.
	REV. CAROLINE J. BARTLETT writes to
the Kalamazoo, Mich., Telegraph, that she
has been taking part in English politics,
making her first political speech in a foreign
land Accompanying her friend, Miss Flor-
ence Balgarnie, to a workingmen’s meeting
in North London, at which the latter was
to speak, Miss Bartlett was also introduced
to the audience, composed of hundreds of
workingmen, who listened “with their hats
off.” Miss Bartlett also describes a short
interview with Justin McCarthy, the Irish
leader.
	Mrs. Potter Palmer, President of the
Board of Lady Managers, who has recently
returned from a European tour, reports that
the women of Europe, particularly of
Great Britain, France, Germany and Bel-
gium, are deeply interested in the World’s
Fair, and are working hard to make the
womans’s branch of it a splendid success.
The women’s commissions, which have
been formed in these countries, include
many of the most distinguished and honor-
ed women known at court. The outlook
is most promising for a great exhibit of
women’s industrial, educational and chari-
table work, from both this country and
from abroad.


CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS
N. A. W. S. A.

[To the Officers and Members of the N. A.
W. S. A.]
	As the time is drawing near for our next
annual meeting, I earnestly call your at-
tention to the following article of our Con-
stitution, and ask that if you have any
ammendment to propose you will send them
at once to me, that they may be published
in good season in the suffrage papers, as re-
quired.
	ARTICLE V. This Constitution may be
amended by a two-thirds vote at any annual
meeting, after one day's notice in the Con-
vention, notice of the proposed amendment
having been given to the business committee
not less than three months in advance, and
by them published in the suffrage papers.
	I will gladly send a copy of the Constitu-
tion to any one wishing it.
			RACHEL FOSTER AVERY,
				Cor. Sec. N. A. W. S. A.
	Somerton, Philadelphia.


I have no fear that men will be less
manly or women less womanly when they
meet on terms of equality before the law.—
John G. Whittier.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street,
second gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	OCTOBER 1, 1892.


CONFERENCE NOTICE.

	THE Sixty-third Semi annual Conference of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will 
convene in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, at
10 o'clock on Thursday morning, October 6th,
1892.
	The officers and members of the Church gen-
erally are cordially invited to attend the meetings
of the conference.
				WILFORD WOODRUFF,
				GEORGE Q. CANNON,
				JOSEPH F. SMITH.
							First Presidency.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	THE general semi-annual conference of the Re-
lief Society will be held in the Salt Lake As-
sembly Hall in this city on Monday, October 10,
1892, meetings commencing at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m.
Officers and members of this organization from all
the several Stakes of Zion are most cordially in-
vited to attend these meetings, as there will be
important business pertaining to the Relief
Society brought before the conference.
			ZINA D. H. YOUNG, Pres.
			JANE S RICHARDS,
			BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.
				Counselors.


PRIMARY OFFICERS MEETING.

	There will be a meeting of the officers of the
Primary, Association held at the residence of C.
B. Felt, 155 North Main St. Thursday Oct. 6, at
7 p. m. Representatives from each of the Stakes
of Zion are requested to be present.

		PRIMARY CONFERENCE.

	The Third General Conference of the Primary
Association will be held in the Assembly Hall in
this City, Oct. 7, at 7 p. m.
	All interested in the Primary work are cordially
invited to attend.
				LOUIE B. FELT, President.
				LILLIE FREEZE,
				CLARA C. CANNON,
								Counselors.
				MAY ANDERSON, Secretary.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THERE will very likely be a meeting called of
the Utah Woman’s Press Club while Conference
visitors are in the City.
	WE must apologize for not giving in this issue
the article on mines and disturbances in Northern
Idaho, particularly describing our interesting
visit to the Gem mine. There are so many local


affairs to be mentioned that things of less im-
portance must wait.

	THE Territorial Fair to be held in this City the
present month promises to be the most varied in
kind and mammoth in proportion of any that has
preceded it. It ought to be in view of the repre-
sentation expected for the World’s Fair in ’93.
Certainly the management is in good hands and
the people are right in expecting the best results
of the enterprise. It opens on Tuesday October
4th.
	TME W. S. A. Ter. Convention will be held in
the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms in this City
Wednesday Oct. 5,—begining with an Executive
session in the morning. Delegates are expected
from all parts of the Territory and the President
Mrs. S. M. Kimball and an Ex. Com. are prepar-
ing an attractive programme of exercises. In the
evening a reception for the Association delegates
and friends will be held at the residence of Mrs.
Phebe Y. Beattie, Ch. Ex. Com., at 55 N. West
Temple—elaborate preparations are being made
and suitable decorations will be a feature of the
reception.


UTAH WOLD'S FAIR COMMISSION.

	The following letter will explain itself and it is
ardently hoped that the ladies of Utah will avail
themselves of this opportunity to show their in-
terest in the matter.—ED.

Mrs. E. B. Wells,
	President Board of Lady Managers, Salt Lake
		County.
	DEAR MADAM:—The floral emblem for Utah
will be balloted for at the coming Territorial Fair
in October. The Board of Lady Managers have
selected the following flowers as candidates, Sego
Lily, Yellow Primrose, Indian Paint Brush, Wild
Rose, and Marguerite. Please notify the Ladies
of your county so that all who attend the Fair in
Salt Lake City, may cast a ballot for their favorite
flower. All who do not attend the Fair may send
their ballot by Postal Card. The polls will be
open until the 25th of October. Let us impress
upon you the fact that notice of this, should be
immediately, and widely spread, and all ladies
should cast a ballot for our emblem, in order to
show their interest in Utah and her exhibit, at the
World's Columbian Exposition.
		Yours Respectfully,
			MAY PRESTON, Secretary.


WORLD'S FAIR WORK.

		S. L. COUNTY LADIES ORGANIZED.

	AT a meeting of ladies held in the Social Hall
in this City, Monday Sept. 26, at 2 p. m. an or-
ganization for Salt Lake County was effected.
There were on the platform the two Lady Com-
missioners for Utah,Mrs.Margaret B. Salisbury and
Mrs. Whalen, also Miss Keogh, Alternate and the
President of the Ter. Board of Lady Managers for
Utah, Mrs. F. S. Richards and Mrs. C. W. Lyman,
Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Mrs. M. Isabella Horne,
Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, Mrs. James B. Boggs,
Mrs. George Y. Wallace and other representative
women of the Territory. Mrs. E. B. Wells Presi-
dent of S. L. Co., having previously been elected
by the Ter. Board acted as Chairman, Mrs. May
E. Talmage was appointed Sec. pro tem and read
the call, also the minutes of a meeting held in the
Templeton Hotel, Sept. 10, for a similar purpose.
	Some explanations having been made the busi-
ness of electing officers was proceeded with.
Mrs. G o. Y. Wallace was elected First Vice Pres.
Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings Second Vice Pres Mrs.
Bertha Bamberger Treas. Mrs. Margaret A.
Caine Sec. Board of Directors as follows: Mrs.


Amelia Folsom Young, Mrs. James B. Boggs,
Mrs. E. C. Clawson, Mrs. C. E. Allen, Mrs. Grace
Young, Mrs. J. C. Royle, Mrs. Nettie Y. Snell,
Mrs. A. K. Smith, Mrs. Ann D. Groesbeck, Mrs.
Ferdinard Fabian of this City, Mrs. Elizabeth
Howard, Big Cotton Wood, Mrs. Maria Holt,
South Jordan; Mrs. C. C. Goodwin, Mrs. C. W.
Bennett, Mrs, Elizabeth Pixton, Taylorsville; Mrs.
Hattie Hooper Young, Miss Emma McCornick,
Mrs. W. W. Riter, Mrs. Wendell Benson, also of
this City; Mrs. H. P. Kendall, Camp Douglas.
	During the afternoon short and appropriate
speeches were made by Mrs. Zina D. H. Young,
Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball,
and Mrs. F. S. Richards. The speakers alluded
to the early days in Utah and expressed an
earnest wish for a creditable representation at
the Columbian Exposition in 1893. Mrs. Whalen
of Ogden greeted the audience pleasantly and in-
vited all the ladies to attend an important meet-
ing to be held in Ogden on Saturday, Oct. 1st.


DELSARTE AND FDUCATION.

	MISS Maud May Babcock B. E. who has re-
cently come to teach in this City and has been en-
gaged by the Faculty of the Utah University is
certainly a very pleasing and attractive person as
well as an accomp ished elecutionist and teacher
of Delsarte.
	Mrs. Susa Y. Gates met Miss Babcock last 
summer at Harvard, and was instrumental in
securing her services for Utah during the fall and
winter months, though she is under engagement
to teach at Harvard again next summer. She
has already taught at that university two years.
	The young lady comes with, most excellent
references, and these with the impressions she
makes personally are a sufficient guarantee of
her winning favor and achieving success.
	The notices in leading papers of New York and
other cities are very emphatic in praise of her
recitations and readings of the most difficult
pieces, tragic, dramatic lyric and sensational.
	Miss Babcock graduated from the National
School of Oratory of Philadelphia with honors
receiving the degree of Bachelor of Elocution;
and has since made a study of Delsarte Expres-
sion and Shakespeare under the best exponents
of these branches in New York and Boston.
	Miss Babcock in teaching physical culture fol-
lows the methods of Franklin Sargent of New
York City who has a theatre and Lyceum com-
bined at Berkley New York.


EDMUND RUSSELL AND DELSARTE.
EDMUND RUSSELR has been in this City over
six weeks, and during that time has familiarized
himself tolerably well with the City and its sur-
roundings,as well as the people taken as a whole,
and a few in particular. He has given several
lectures in courses and in classes, and has really
been over-crowded with work for the time being.
Very busy people like the writer have not had
the privilege of hearing many of his talks or
lessons, but we have heard one course of three
lectures, that we enjoyed very much indeed, and
from which we gleaned much valuable informa-
tion that we hope to apply in doing good, if only
in self-development. And really one cannot im-
prove one’s self without benefitting others.
	There is so much more in Delsarte methods
than one could possibly believe before coming in
actual contact with the work, or having it ex-
plained in the pains-taking way in which Mr.
Russell has been kind enough to give it.
	One hears of Delsarte as of a great artist,
painter or scientist, without realizing that the art
he made a life-time study had methods, rules and
practises that would apply to every individual all
along the lines of lifework.


The first lecture of the course we attended was 
of Delsarte himself, his life and work, and was
one of the most interesting sketches we have
ever had the pleasure of hearing.  This lecture
of itself would it seems to us give any one a de-
sire to know more of the fine art of expression in
life, and the happiness to be attained through the
best and highest development of the physical as
well as the mental, moral and spiritual which is
so sought after by many; how to reach this
standard of excellence is just beginning to be
understood by a few.  Light has come into the 
world and is increasing, if there is any good
thing or true principle that some of us have not yet
reached, by all means let us avail ourselves of any
opportunity to possess it that is open to us, and 
make it applicable, useful and beneficial.  Del-
sarte is said to be “a cure for nervousness,” then
by all means American women, should make it a 
study; and it might add much to their power for
good, and certainly to their influence at home
and elsewhere.
	To most women the home is the one place
where they desire to be appreciated and under-
stood, and how very often, they spoil everything
by that nervousness that is so common in women
of fine-strung, or as is often said, high-strung
temperament: and misunderstandings arise so fre-
quently and are attributed to being “out of sorts”
that if there is an art or a study that will heal or
help this malady; no time should be lost in get-
ting at work. “To be healthy is to be happy,” is
an old familiar saying, and much does depend
upon health, and if the Delsarte methods tend to 
an improvement in this direction to a fine
physique, the building up of the constitution, or
human body as a whole, then indeed should we
hail with gladness such a heaven-sent boon.
	The prolongation of human life with all one’s
faculties sound and good is one of the objects
that this people called Latter-day Saints have
sought to achieve; there is no doubt that correct
rules of living, such as are given in the “Word of
Wisdom,” would do much towards accomplish-
ing the results sought for; how few comparatively
observe these requirements, the fact is, all want
the blessing, without the effort.
	It is true as Mr. Russell says, we are not likely
to receive benefit, without doing as well as hear-
ing.
	Many who have attended series of lectures,
lessons and talks have testified to the great ad-
vantages they have derived from Mr. Russell’s
suggestions and instruction; and would be glad
to avail themselves of further opportunities under
his teaching. He goes to San Francisco from
here and will be given a reception by the Century
Club of that City October 5th.  He has letters of 
introduction to leading ladies and gentlemen
there that ensure for him a welcome, and with
the wealth and prestige of that great City, there
will be a wider opportunity for success in his 
profession, yet we doubt if there will be a higher
appreciation of his talents and his work in
Delsarte.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

﻿WOMAN'S WORK ON THE SANDWICH
ISLANDS.

	PERHAPS some who have an idea that the mis-
sionary sisters of these Islands have one con-
tinual summer's holiday in "Gathering up the
shells from the sea shore," and in searching
pretty ferns from the Gulches, and gathering
curiosities of different kinds for themselves and
their dear friends at home, may be interested in
learning just how we do spend our time, and
what our object in view is. Then if any of us re-
turn not as well supplied with the above men-
tioned desirables, be not disappointed dear
friends. For we realize that there is much to be
done here among the women of this nation and
we are trying to teach them both by precept and

[Column 2]

example the great work there is for women in
this age of the world. Our harvest is great and
the laborers are few, and the returns of our toil
seem slow though our faith is strong in the be-
lief that if "we cast our bread upon the water
after many days it shall return."
	We have gained a testimony for ourselves that
in the performance of duty, be that duty what it
may, there is joy, satisfaction and contentment of
spirit, and that the neglect of duty brings the re-
verse. Eight months ago we formed ourselves
in a school of the missionary sisters, eight in
number and have since that time held regular
weekly meetings, studying the principles of the
Gospel, and other subjects pertaining to the ad-
vancement of woman. We have also observed
certain by-laws which have governed satis-
factorily our labors both temporally and spiritu-
ally, and each of the sisters has expressed the
pleasure she takes in the performance of her
labors and of the unity existing between us. On
the 6th of July last at the anniversary of the or-
ganization of the Relief Society of this branch, a
special meeting was held in which missionary
sisters were selected to visit the adjacent Islands
assisted hy a native sister; which appointment
we willingly accepted, trusting that God would
make us equal to the task before us and fit the
back for the burden. Some may have doubted
the prudence in sending women to travel unas-
sisted by an Elder over such roads as there are
upon these Islands, but as that was out of the
question, they having been several months at
their respective fields of labor, we were willing to
prove that while woman is necessitated in depend-
ing upon man for much, she is not dependent for
her energy and courage.
	Sister Katties Hottendorf assisted by Kealalina
was appointed to the Island of Kanai and sailed
from Honolulu July 25th. The remainder of us
were detained till the 9th of August when we
boarded the comfortable, clean Kinau for our re-
spestive islands. The day was calm and pre-
sented a favorable appearance for a pleasant
voyage, and we had sailed nearly an hour with-
out being sick, and were about to think we were
going to escape that dreaded malady, when an
Officer remarked, "That little cloud yonder will
soon make you feel more uncomfortable than you
do now," which proved to be true, for strong
winds and high swells, caused the Kinau to toss
herself recklessly from billow to billow, regard-
less of her precious freight, and we were forced
to become tributaries to the mighty Pacific. The
sight from the ocean, of Honolulu to Diamond-
head as the land fades in the distance to be seen
once is always to be remembered. The peculiar
formation of the once active craters of "Punch-
bowl" and "Diamondhead" now covered with
beautiful tropical vegetation surrounded by the
modern improvements of civilzation present a
picture that would take space to describe.
	Our first stopping place was at Maui, and we
rouse ourselves to see where we are, and there
is Lahaina sleeping in the shadow of her mighty
mountain. The white caps of the rolling deep
flashed back the light of the full clear moon.
The air had a tropical langour, the boats are
lowered mid confusion and splashing of oars, to
take passengers and freight ashore. Here we
are surprised in meeting with Brother Duffin who
had come aboard to meet his wife and accom-
pany her to her place of appointment, they de-
cided to go over to the next bay, about fifteen
miles, as horses cannot be obtained here for
traveling. So it is up anchor and away through
the moonlight over the rolling deep to Maalaca
bay where we bid "Aloha nui" to Brother and
Sister Duffin, and Napohuelua her assistant, and
then on to Makena where the surf breaks on
barren rocks under the great dome of "Haleaka-
la," here the channel had the appearance of a
wild rushing river and it was hard to imagine we

[Column 3]

were at sea. My room companion expressed
her fears in landing saying she was once lost in
this bay early in the evening and had no hopes of
seeing land again, but daylight brought to her
troubled mind relief.
	Makena bay is left and we reach the nearest 
point of Hawaii, "Mahukona," by 8 o'clock in
the morning, here our patience is tried by a long
stay, in the strong hot wind blowing off shore,
but the sight of the domes of the three moun-
tains, "Hualalai" "Mamakea" and "Manna Loa,"
together with the encircling mountains of Maui,
and the island of Molokai in the distance
furnish a study for the mind and relieves the
monotony.
	We stop at Kawaikae and Upolo, then go back
on our way to Hilo. The entire scene is one of
varying beauty beginning with the cane fields of
Kahala which stretch their sea of green almost
to the edge of the red cliffs, and here number-
less spots walled in by rock fences designating
the homes of the ancient Hawaiian, and the im-
mense population that must have existed on that
apparent barren land.
	We pass the Waimanu bluffs which extend in
one long blue sweep from the inland hights until
it makes its tremendous 1600 foot leap into the
surf. At Laupahochoc the fresh land breeze
comes across the water bringing with it odors of
ferns and woodland vegetation; here a tramway
extends from the surf abruptly to the top of the
cliff on which all imports and exports are taken
to the Plantation above. The village is pretty
and unlike any other we have passed in occupy-
ing a small basin between two immense moun-
tains. Two hours after leaving here we are for
the first time since leaving Honolulu in a calm
sea and to our joy are at our destination at Hilo
bay.
	Though it is half past 2 o'clock Thursday
morning, making a thirty-six hour sea voyage,
and though strangers in a strange land we are
glad to put our feet once more on land, and our
company three in number took a special boat,
with the rest of the "Reverends" as we were
honorably titled, to shore, where for a short time
there seemed to be considerably excitement
among the natives over our arrival, many saying
it was the first time they had seen a Missionary
Sister of our Church.
			LIBBIE NOAL.
	[To be continued].


SOLUTION OF THE LABOR PROBLEM.
	THE Carnegie troubles with the laboring men
have brought the labor problem to the front in
the minds of all. The only solution lies in the
divinely given Golden Rule "As ye would that
men should do to you, do ye also unto them"
This has been strikingly illustrated by the
millionaire merchant prince and Evangelist Mr.
Charles N. Crittenton, who has taken into
partnership five of the heads of departments in
his great wholesale house in New York, pro-
nounced by the New York Times "probably the
largest in the world." The New York press is
full of praise for this notable deed. The New
York Herald says: "On its face the transaction
was simply the reorganization of the house of
Charles N. Crittenton as an incorporated com-
pany."
	As a matter of fact it was a voluntary sur-
render by Mr. Crittenton of a considerable in-
terest in his very prosperous business to five of
his old employes. Many employers have adopted
one means or another of making their employes
sharers in the profits of their business and there-
by securing their hearty co-operation. But the
voluntary transfer by a man of large means of a
large interest in his business to his employes
without the payment of a penny, is unique.


Edward G. Wells, Third Vice-President of the
company says: "It is capitalized at $800,000, Mr.
Crittenton having turned into it every dollar’s
worth of assets of the house of Charles N. Crit-
tenton, of which he was the sole owner.  The
stock is all taken, being held by Mr. Crittenton.
Messrs. Alfred B. Kennedy, William A. Demarst,
Franklin B. Waterman, Thomas E. Delano and
myself.  Mr. Crittenton is President of the com-
pany. 
	"All of the men who have been taken into the
company are old employes, the youngest of the 
five in point of service being myself with a record
of thirteen years in Mr. Crittenton’s employ. Mr.
Kennedy, who is the buyer for the house, has
served twenty-six years, Mr. Demarst, the head
of the retail department, twenty years; Mr.
Delano, the general manager, twenty-eight years,
and Mr. Waterman who runs our advertising de-
partment, sixteen years. Others may be taken in.
	"I presume that we were selected on account
of our long service and thorough familiarity with
every detail of the business of the house, but I
should not be surprised if some other old em-
ployes were taken into the company later."
	Mr. Crittenton is himself devoting his entire
time to Evangelistic work and his fortune to
founding Florence Crittenton Missions for the
rescue of erring girls. The story of their found-
ing touches all hearts to tenderness and all eyes 
to tears.  A few years since his little four-year-
old Florence on her dying bed pleaded "Papa
sing 'The Sweet Bye and Bye.' With choking
voice and breaking heart her father sang the
beautiful words and her beloved spirit floated
heavenward on the wings of song. Though the
Bye and Bye might be sweet, the present without
his darling seemed so overwhelmingly dreary,
that he did not care to live.  But in his sorrow
the Savior who had taken the little child in His
bosom, brought comfort to his bleeding heart and
he found strangely true the words of Christ "My
peace I give unto you."
	Then he began to prove that he was indeed a
follower of the lowly Nazarene who forever dig-
nified labor by being Himself a carpenter, who
in the midst of his toil uttered these royal words
which would forever settle all strife between 
capital and labor, "By this shall all men know
that ye are my disciples if ye have love one to
another."
	Mr. Crittenton was so full of love that he went
down into the slums and helped to uplift the
fallen, and one night when he was pleading with
a poor erring girl to leave her life of shame, he
said in the words of Christ, "Neither do I con-
demn thee, go and sin no more." Through her
tears she said, "Where can I go?  Quick as a
flash came the thought "Where can she go?”
scarce a door save a door of sin is open to her
and then and there he determined as a memorial
to his own little Florence to found a home where
other father’s little girls lost in the whirlpool of
shame, might be rescued and restored to a life of
virtue.  So at 21-23 Bleeker St. New York, nine
years ago was opened the First Florence Critten-
ton Mission, a large double four-story house
where food and shelter and clothing and a home
are freely given, and under the influence of
Mother Prindle the W. C. T. U. Matron, hun-
dreds become Christian women.  Over five hun-
dred girls annually find a home here and three-
fourths of them are redeemed.
	Mr. Crittenton has also established Florence
Crittenton Missions in New Brunswick, N. J.,
San Jose, Sacramento, Los Angeles and San
Francisco, California.  The latter was formerly
known as "The Pacific Rescue Home," success-
fully carried on by a number of philanthropic
people, but since Mr. Crittenton has become its
President the name of his darling child has been
given to it.
	These Missions represent an investment of
[Column 2]
nearly a million dollars, while his private charit-
ies foot up nearly as much more.  It is the dream
of his life to found a Florence Crittenton Mission
in every large city in America and Europe, and
plans to that end are made with the Woman’s
Christian Temperance Union, under the leader-
ship of Miss Frances E. Willard and Lady Henry
Somerset.
	As an Evangelist Mr. Crittenton is wonderfully
blessed of God, thousands having started heaven-
ward under his loving ministrations.  He gives
his services freely, and though himself an Episco-
palian, being an officer of Holy Trinity Church,
Harlem New York, he is perfectly at home in
pulpits of all denominations, where he is warmly
welcomed by th- pastors  Perhaps the one dis-
tinguishing characteristic is the universal love he
inspires in all hearts, which make many think as
a little child said, "Mamma, don’t you think Jesus
when he was on earth must have been like Mr.
Crittenton?"
			W. G. C. EDHOLM,
				Supt. Press, World's W. C. T. U.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

A TRIP TO BANNOCK STAKE.

	ON Friday morning August 12, accom-
panied by Sister Lillie Freeze I left Salt
Lake City to visit the sisters in Bannock
Stake. We left on the 10.5 a. m. train for
Idaho Falls. We had a very pleasant visit
wtth Brothers John Henry Smith and C. C.
Card who were going to attend the Bannock
Stake quarterly conference. On arriving at
Idaho Falls about seven o'clock we found
President Ricks with a carriage waiting our
arrival; and were soon on our way for
Lewsville, a distance of sixteen miles, ar-
riving at ten o'clock very tired and dusty.
We were kindly received by Brother Miller
and wife with whom we remained the next
three days. Saturday morning (13th) at
ten o'clock we met with the Primary Asso-
ciation and after I had made a few remarks
to the children, Sister Freeze addressed
them and took an active part in their ex-
ercises which was very educational to the
children.
	At 2 p. m. we met with the Relief Society
(Sister Jardine President), and the Young
Ladies. We instructed the sisters on the 
importance of the organization of the Relief
Society and their duties as wives and
mothers, Sister Freeze spoke to the young
people in a very interesting manner, exhort-
ing them to live pure lives, and be Latter-
day Saints in all their associating together.
	Sister Freeze is well qualified to instruct
the young people of Zion.
	Sunday morning, 14th, at 10 o'clock the
Stake Conference commenced. The house
was filled to overflowing, people coming
from 12 to 25 miles with their families to at-
tend the meeting. Much valuable instruc-
tion was given by the brethren; a good
spirit prevailed in all the gatherings of the
saints.
	President Ricks invited the visiting
sisters to occupy the stand on Sunday even-
ing, we consented; the house was literally
crammed, the brethren were present in large
numbers and we felt encouraged by their
presence. We had an excellent time to-
gether. Attended conference the next day
Monday, 15th, at four p. m., after the meet-
ing closed we started for Rexburg, distant
sixteen miles, arriving about sundown.
The writer was hospitablly entertained by
Patriarch Arza Hinckley and family, Sister
Hinckley is the Stake President of the Relief
Society. Tuesday, 16th, we started again
at nine o'clock for Parker Ward, where

[Column 2]

meeting was held at two o'clock, the house
was filled with the people from Egin and
other wards.
	Sister Winters drove her own conveyance
and brought a load of the sisters from Rex-
burg returning the same evening traveling
twenty-five miles as well as fording Snake
River twice. I forgot to mention our hav-
ing to ferry over Snake River on our way
from Lewisville to Rexburg which detained
us a while on our journey. The meeting
was a spirited one the sisters being urged to
a more fatthful discharge of their important
duties in the organizations. They were all
glad to meet and shake hands with us. Our
company spent the night with Bishop
Parker and family, who did all they could
to make us comfortable. Sister Parker
went into the garden and picked fresh ras-
berries for our supper which was a great
treat in that far off Northern country;
Brother and Sister Parker were old friends
of ours and we enjoyed ourselves very much
	Wednesday, 17th, drove to Willford, dist-
ance six miles, ate dinner with Sister Pratt,
President of the Relief Society, held meet-
ing at two p. m., another full house, the
visiting sister and President Ricks occup-
ied the time. At 4 o'clock started for Rex-
burg a ride of ten miles where we met (in
the evening) with the Young Men and
Young Ladies in their conjoint meeting; a
full attendance; a good spirit prevailed,
much good instruction and counsel was
given; we met old friends and made many
new ones. Thursday, 18th, met with the
Relief Society again, the house was filled;
it being the first visit that the sisters from
the city had made, all seemed anxious to
hear their teachings. The choir came to all
our meetings their lively singing adding
much to the spirit of the meeting, we had
an excellent time together which will be
long remembered by all present. Sister
Freeze met with the children; a great many
bright children were present, and were well
behaved. Sister Freeze in her happy man-
ner interested them about an hour. At
5 p. m. we were on our way to Menan,
arriving at sundown, eighteen miles ride.
Stayed all night with Bishop Stephen's family.
	Friday, 19th, were again on the move at
eight a. m. traveled twenty-five miles, ar-
riving at Iona about noon, held meeting at
2 o'clock with the Relief Society also Pri-
mary Association.
	I was astonished at the extent of country
and the quantity of water everywhere.
Such large canals which extended for miles,
I asked President Ricks if he could give me
an estimate of the length of the canals. He
said there were two thousand miles of
ditches and canals. We rode through miles
of beautiful wheat and other grain, fenced
on either side which was wonderful, when
we were told that all the work had been
done in such a short space of time; it being
only nine years since the first houses were
built.
	At about 5 o'clock we started for Idaho
Falls arriving safely at 6:30, distance from
Iona seven miles. Met with the Relief
Society at eight; again a full house, people
coming from fifteen to twenty miles to at-
tend the meeting. Mothers with children
in their arms knowing it would take them
till midnight to ride home.
	A Primary was organized after the meet-
ing. This ended our labors in the Bannock
Stake. We spent a very pleasant evening
at Bishop Thomas's; with President Ricks
and wife also Counselor Steele. At 12.30


we left for the depot; in fifteen minutes the
train came along; we shook hands with our
friends, stepped aboard the train and were
soon speeding on our homeward journey
arriving at nine o’clock in Salt Lake City
very tired yet thankful to our Heavenly
Father for his preserving care over us. We
had a pleasant but arduous trip, traveling
six hundred miles. Too much praise can-
not be given to President Ricks for his kind
fatherly care over us, in seeing that we
were comfortably provided for meeting us
at the train and traveling with us around
the Stake, and seeing us aboard the train
for our homeward journey. We shall never
forget our trip to the good folks of Bannock
Stake.
				M. Isabella Horne.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
﻿EMPRESS FREDERIC AND WOMEN’S
		FEDERATION.

			PARIS, FRANCE, Oct. 20, 1892.
Editor Woman's Journal:
	In my last letter, written from Berlin, I
briefly characterized many of the interest-
ing associations composed of women, and
institutions founded by them, which I had
been privileged to visit. One fact concern-
ing them I reserved for this article, of
which it forms a necessary part.
	From the “Scheppeler Bette Verein” to
the “Volks’ Kuchen,” all of the societies
and works referred to are “Under the pro-
tection of Her Majesty, the Empress Fred-
erick.” It was some time before I realized
the full import of this phrase. In spite of
what I had long ago known of the activity
of the Empress, while yet Crown Princess,
in establishing courses of university lectures
for women, and in facilitating educational
opportunities for girls of all ranks, I still
unconsciously associated “Her Majesty’s
Protection” with the royal patronage which
bakers and brewers, tailors and milliners, in
all monarchical countries, are wont to use
as a trade-mark indicative of the superior
quality of their wares. But, when I found,
in the “Pestalozzi-Froebel House,” games
and studies presented by the Empress; and
in Frau Heyl’s wonderful cooking school a
case of phials from the royal hand, con-
taining the chemical constituents of the
common grains, vegetables, and fruits, pre-
sented by Her Majesty on one of her visits
of inspection; when I learned that the Prin-
cess Victoria was Frau Heyl’s first pupil in
the art of gardening; when I knew that
the Empress had recently inspected “Tan-
neck” (the country home where Fraulein
Crain lives with the “Pension” portion of
her pupils), and had gone from observatory
to dog-kennel in her survey of the premises;
when, in “The Victoria Training School
for Nurses,” I saw numerous evidences of
Her Majesty’s personal vigilance and sym-
pathy, I began to understand that the phrase
“Under the Protection of Her Majesty, the
Queen and Empress Frederick” was of vital
significance to all things to which it is ap-
plied; and, moreover, that it is a sure pledge
of noble motive and capable management
in the institutions enjoying it. Presently, I
discovered that most of the remarkable
group of women by whom I was welcomed
were members of what they constantly re-
ferred to as “The Empress’s Circle.” I
noted that the tone in which the “circle”
was mentioned by its members had an ac-
cent of proud, noble, modesty, but no hint
of boastful vanity. I found every member
of this “circle” to be a woman of serious
[Column 2]
purpose, engaged in some work whose mo-
tive lay outside of self. Every one of the
“circle” whom I met realized and deplored
the relative weakness consequent upon
isolating her own work from that of others,
and as we discussed the means of securing
a federation of forces for the common inter-
ests, one after another explained the ob-
stacle to such a union, always ending with
an expression of eager desire for it, and
with the statement: “The Empress Fred-
erick has always desired just such a feder-
ation, and if it can be accomplished at all
in Germany, it will be only through her in-
fluence.” Several of these leaders, each in
a personal interview, suggested my seek-
lng an audience with the Empress and un-
folding to her the ideas of the National and
International Councils of women and the
plans for the general World’s Congress of
Women at Chicago in ’93, with a view to
enlisting Her Majesty’s aid in securing for
this Congress a good delegation of German
women.
	It may be difficult to believe that the sug-
gestion was, at first, not agreeable; such,
however, is the fact. As a simple Ameri-
can woman, unfamiliar with the manners of
Empresses, possessing a tongue untrained
to the phraseology employed in addressing
imperial personages, I felt that I should be
quite out of place in a Queen’s audience
chamber. Deliberately to seek an inter-
view with the Empress, and thus to become
responsible for the impression produced in
the royal circle by the plans for the work of
the Congress Auxiliary of the Columbian
Exposition, was a role to which I felt un-
equal; and not until it had been pressed up-
on me as a duty by many deeply interested,
did I consent to ask for an audience. I re-
ceived a favorable response from Her
Majesty s chamberlain, and the audience
was set for Saturday, August 6. The sum-
mer residence of the Empress is at Hom-
burg, a watering place eleven miles north
of Frankfort-on-the-Main. The Schloss is
an interesting building, formerly the resi-
dence of the Electors. It was once occu-
pied by the daughter of George III., who
married a German prince, and like most
European castles it is clothed with historic
reminiscences. After traversing numerous
courts and corridors, we reached an ante-
chamber where we were received by the
Countess Perponcher, chief lady in waiting
of Her Majesty. After a few minutes con-
versation, which showed her to be conver-
sant with the object of my visit, the Countess
conducted me to an interior apartment where
Her Majesty presently appeared, the Coun-
tess at the same time quitting the chamber.
	In a moment the gracious cordiality of
Her Majesty’s welcome gave me the ease
of an accustomed guest, and in the more
than an hour that the Empress kindly de-
tained me, my mind was fully occupied with
the subjects before us, viz. : the condition
of the women of different countries, par-
ticularly of those of Germany and the
United States, as respects opportunities for
education, for employment, and for the ex-
ercise of personal liberty, and the best
methods of securing on the Committee of
Honor for the Congress of ,93 the German
names that would carry most weight at
home and abroad, and be truly representa-
tive of the best that Germany has attained,
so far as its women are concerned. As, in
reply to Her Majesty’s searching questions,
the complete outline of the plans for this
Congress was revealed to her, she expressed
the warmest approval, and her strong de-
[Column 3]
sire that Germany should send worthy dele- 
gates who can gather as well as give, and 
bring back for home use an enlarged com-
prehension of the significance of “the wo-
man movement,” and new enthusiasm for
its advancement. Her Majesty was also
deeply sympathetic with the ideas that un-
derlie the organizations of the National and
International Councils, and the urging the
usefulness of their application to societies
of local scope. She talked freely of her 
own efforts to federate the different societies
and institutions organized by the women of
Berlin through the “circle” of which I
had learned so much in that City, and to
which I have above referred as “The Em-
press’s circle.” During the winter it is the
habit of the Empress to invite the mem-
bers of the Circle” to take tea with her
once or twice a month. On these occasions
each one (who, as I have before intimated
is the working head of some institution or
society enjoying the Empress’s protection)
reports the state of her own work. All ad-
vise together, and endeavor to make their
works mutually supplementary. The Em-
press spoke of their little meetings as if they
were a source of great pleasure to herself,
told me some incidents to illustrate the help-
fulness of even such informal federation of
interests, and expressed the strongest desire
to see such a federation take national pro-
portions under permanent, formal organi-
zations.
	The Empress deplored the present state
of unrest among the working people, and
protested strongly against the injustice of
those who attribute it to the fact that edu-
cation has been made accessible to the mass-
es, and hold liberal reformers responsible
for it. With the democratic conviction to
which one is accustomed in a republic, but 
which one does not expect from royal lips,
Her Majesty declared with emphasis: “It
is not too much education which produces
these revolts and outbreaks, among the
people everywhere, these strikes and dis-
sensions; not too much but too little edu-
cation is the trouble.” Her Majesty ex-
pressed the opinion that intellectual and in-
dustrial education should accompany each
other in all classes of schools for all classes of
people; that respect for useful things and for
the people who can produce them, together
with a desire to be useful, should be incul-
cated in every child; and that all systems
of education which ignore this part of 
their plain function fail on the side of
practical morals. In discussing industrial
education, the Empress Frederick can speak
with the authority of experience, for, as a 
child she was educated to habits of industry,
was instructed carefully in household arts,
and has worked all her life very perserver-
ingly in her studio; producing both sculp-
ture and paintings which indicate that, had
she not been born to other duties, she would
have been a professional artist. Moreover,
the leading industrial and technical schools,
for girls in Berlin have been founded under
Her Majesty’s protection, and she, with the
Emperor Frederick, was active in the es-
tablishment of the “Kunst Gewerbe” 
museum.
	When I explained that the “General
World’s Congress of Women” would be
divided into several departments, and that
it would be the aim of the committee
charged with preparing the programme to
secure from the delegates of each country
a report that would give both the history
of the progress of women in their respec-
tive countries and their present status in


respect to the subject considered—the Em-
press expressed the most cordial interest,
spoke of the vast help that the published re-
ports of this Congress will afford to students
of social economy everywhere, and said
that they will, indeed, be a cyclopoediea of
all phases of progress that affect woman's
life.
Several times Her Majesty said, "I would
go to Chicago myself, I would attend this
Congress, were I not such a bad sailor."
Repeatedly expressing her desire that Ger-
many be well represented in the Congress,
she gave me the address Frau Minna Streck-
er, who has charge of the institutions
founded by the still universally mourned
Princess Alice, and urged me to see her. I
endeavored to do so, but the absence of
Frau Stricker from Darmstadt made it im-
possible for me to meet her, though her in-
terest in the Congress is assured.
Nothing certainly could be more gratify-
ing to American women, or more helpful
and gratifying to German women who in-
terest themselves in progressive movements,
than to have the Empress Frederick accept
the protectorate of the German committee
and delegation in the Congress of '93, if
circumstances permit her to do so.
Requesting to be kept informed of the
plans as they mature, and making valuable
suggestions, which I trust may be executed,
Her Majesty terminated an audience which, 
instead of proving an ordeal, was to me the
most interesting experience of a summer
which has been full of vivid enjoyments.
The Empress talked on many subjects
only indirectly connected with that reported
here. Her manner was characterized by
uncommon simplicity and frankness. I
left Homburg with the consciousness that I
had been in the presence of a truly royal
mind; of a mind accustomed to originate
and to contemplate large views. I felt that
I had seen a woman who has taken life
seriously; who has developed her own
powers by the steady use of them; who has
warmed her heart not only in the glow of
that family affection which, inculcated in her
English home, ripened into an ideal domes-
tic life in Germany; but also in persistently
maintaining the wider human relations
which have made her a co-worker with
the noble women who are striving to
elevate the ideal of German womanhood,
and who look up to her as their revered
chief. 
The Empress contemplates a conception
of womanhood that may be universally ac-
cepted as the Ideal. As Her Majesty de-
veloped this idea somewhat, I was impress-
ed with her frank assumption of the oneness
of humanity, and with her aspiration to
further the recognition of the solidarity
of human interests. I left the castle with
the conviction, which has grown upon me
as I have recalled Her Majesty's questions
and utterances, that I had enjoyed an
audience with "the cleverest woman in
Europe," for this is the title often bestowed
on Victoria of Germany.
MAY WRIGHT SEWALL.
Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

OBITUARIES.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sister
Mary Goatman, who departed this life at Mendon
Utah, on Wednesday, July 6th, 1892, aged sixty-
seven years.
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father has in his in-
finite wisdom removed from our midst our be-
loved sister, and

[Column 2]

	Whereas, her faithful labors as a counselor in
the Relief Society, and a generous, and useful
member thereof, a beloved neighbor and com-
panion. Therefore be it
	Resolved, That we the officers and members of
the Mendon Ward Relief Society do mourn her
loss realizing that we have lost a noble sister
whose hand was ever ready to help the sick and
afflicted.
	Resolved, That we tender our heartfelt sym-
pathy to her bereaved family.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
placed on the records of the Relief Society, and 
a copy be sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
			MARIA BAKER, President.
			MARY SONNE, Counselor.
			EMMA HUGHES, Ass't. Sec.

RHODA ANN FULLMER.
	Died at her daughter's residence in the 7th
Ward, Salt Lake City, at 2 a. m., August 18, 1892,
Rhoda Ann Fullmer, widow of the late David
Fullmer, and daughter of Zera and Rhoda Mar-
rion. Deceased was born in Union Township,
Luzern County, Pennyslvania, Feb. 12th, 1813.
Married Sept. 18th, 1831. Embraced the Gospel 
and was baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, July 1836.
	She was a member of the first Relief Society
organized by the Prophet Joseph in Nauvoo, and
underwent many trials and privations with her
family and the Saints in that place. Emigrated
with the early settlers of Utah in the fall of 1850,
suffering many hardships with fortitude and
patience. Deceased was selected as Second
Counselor to Sister Hickenlooper who was Presi-
dent of first Relief Society in the 6th Ward of
this City.
	When the 5th and 6th Wards were connected,
she was chosen and set apart as President of both
Wards. In Sept. 1877, was again called to act
as President of the 6th Ward Relief Society (the 
two wards having been separated), which posi-
tion she held with honor and integrity up to the
time of her demise. Sister Fullmer was a true
Latter-day Saint, a kind and affectionate mother;
was the mother of eleven children, nine of whom
live to mourn her loss, besides many grandchild-
ren, and greatgrandchildren.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Resolutions of respect to Rhoda Ann Fullmer
who departed this life, having been our beloved 
President of the Relief Society, twenty-five years,
from 1867 to 1892. We her co-laborers in our
Relief Society meeting Sept. 1st, 1892, deem it
fitting that we record our appreciation of her
labors.
	Whereas in the providence of our Heavenly
Father we have been called to mourn the loss of
our beloved President and friend, who having led
a life worthy of imitation has been called home.
We desire to pay a tribute of respect to our
sister.
	Resolved that in behalf of the 6th Ward Relief
Society, we tender our sympathy to the bereaved
family, having lost a loving mother and friend.
We pray the divine healer of all sorrows to com-
fort and bless them and may that Spirit that
brings peace and consolation, be with them in
time of trouble.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be
presented to the family. Also entered upon the
Relief Society record and a copy be sent to the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
			ALICE BUTTERWORTH.
			ELLEN WATSON.
			ELIZABETH W. CONDIE.


[column one]
DOCTOR MATTIE HUGHES CANNON,
Office: II South, First West Street.
Office practice for Diseases of Women from 2 until 4 p. m.

[column two]
﻿Dr. Maggie C. Shipp
Will commence her Winter Class in Obstetrics
and Nursing on Monday, October 24.
Address: Dr. Shipp, 18 Main Street.
	Telephone 383

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, latest
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
Three doors west of Theatre.

MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her residence, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p. m.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash Hous
R.K.THOMAS

[Logo of Rio Grande Western Railway]
THE
Standard Gauge
RAILWAY!
THROUGH THE
ROCKY MOUNTAINS!
Choice of Three Distinct Routes,
AND THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT RAILROAD SCENERY
IN THE WORLD.
Two Fast Express Trains Daily
EACH WAY BETWEEN
OGDEN, SALT LAKE AND DENVER.
ELEGANT RECLINING CHAIR CARS!
Free of Charge.
Direct Connections made In Union Depots.
THE MOST THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED RAILWAY
IN THE WEST.
D.C. DODGE, A. E.WELBY, J.H. BENNETT,
Genl. Mgr. Supt. G.F. & P.A.

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from 
the country promptly responded to.
AVD JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CIY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 21.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1892.	NO. 8.


CONTENTS.

	In Rural England—A Story. Woman Suf-
frage Convention—Ada C. Cannon, Sec. A De-
lightful Reception. President Aylesworth on
Suffrage—The Woman's Journal. R. S. Reports.
Miscellaneous. Notes and News.
	EDITORIAL:—The October Conference. Edi-
torial Notes. Alfred Tennyson. From Far
Away—Annie D. Stevens. U. W. P. Club—E. R.
Shipp, Rec. Sec. W. S. A. Springville—E. J.
Haywood, Sec.
	POETRY:—Columbus—Hannah T. King. "The
Eyes That Cannot Weep"—The Woman's Re-
corder. A Poet's Recompense—Sara Louisa
Oberholtzer.


[Column 1]

﻿COLUMBUS.

A moment let me view, as on the disk
Of mental vision—and by the aid of
Memory's mystic gift, the portrayed
History draw of this most patient man!
The majesty of man, in him, behold!—
His stature tall, erect, and powerful,
Ever towering above his fellows;—
He wore a bland, yet thoughtful countenance,
The impress bearing of divinity.
Pale by study, brown'd by sun and sea;
No levity, or carelessness were trac'd
Upon his form or visage, every gesture,
Gravity and deliberation showed.
Among the potentates he stood a king,
Though poverty enwrapt nought could hide,
The majesty, that as a mantle cover'd him;
The prime of life he scarcely had attain'd,
Yet mental care had prematurely bleach'd
His auburn locks, and streaks of grey appeared.
His voice, deep, sonorous, and impressive,
Like one accustomed to profound reflection.
He wore a modest self-respect the aspect
Of a worshiper in audience of Diety.
Columbus!—Yes 'tis he! whose name has rung
Throughout the circumnavigated globe!
Strange! that the Hemisphere exhumed by him,
And placed as "Beacon on a hill" before
The wond'ring world, bears not his noble name!
His great, his noble, mystic, thrilling name!
—Like imbecile ingratitude this seems!
No matter! he has yet a FUTURE—
And among the Harmonies of heaven,
Myriads yet will tune their golden harps
In praise of him; endowed of God, and sent
To bring before the world a hidden land,
And fore-ordained to cradle gospel-fruit;
And be the Nursery of the First-born Church.
Columbus! Blessed genius! Blessed name!
God's instrument for a work stupendous!
Isabella, with all her strong convictions,
Her warm and rational enthusiasm,
And all the whisperings within her heart,
E'en SHE dreamed not the glory of her work!
She saw Earthly Empires and present good,
And in a measure this was true and right,
But little did she dream GOD'S KINGDOM
Was to rise from out the Empire Columbus
Was impelled to seek and resurrect,
"God's KIngdom cometh not with observation."

So the work progressed, the day has dawned.
And light breathes in upon the mystic work
That Isabella and Columbus organized;
And their names shall be enthron'd forever,
And Ferdinand the TRIO shall complete.
Pioneers of untold glory were they!

[Column 2]

God worked with them to impel them on,
Hence nought could daunt them.—On and on
	they went.
And HE, the instrument, was made to bear
Calumny, and scorn, and pinching poverty,
And the imputation "Thou art mad!"
Maniac, dreamer, visionary man!
And thus he lived, assuring them of truth,
Till youth was gone and much of manhood's
	prime
Until a WOMAN God inspired to hear
The message, he for years had yearned to tell;
A regnant queen his helpmeet was to be,
And she his mission nobly did endorse,
And unto death remained his firm ally.

How strange an atheist is man! Show him
A NEW TRUTH, and he will spurn you from his
	door.
He rarely says, reason be THOU my guide,
I will INVESTIGATE, and then decide;
But no, it comes in contact with my views,
My theory, and my understanding;
The "canon's full," and I am also full,
Being fed on such a nutriment. I,
On such a canon, hence, will live and die—
Such was my father's creed, and therefore mine!
Such is the logic of the worldly-wise,
And such the "Daniels" in the judgment seat;
So TRUTH is veil'd till GOD sees fit to tear
The mummy wrapping, and HIS truth declare,
Then those who've crushed conviction rise to
	truth,
And worship her with all the warmth of youth;
And then she'll reign immortal and for aye—
And all her mandates they with joy obey.
			HANNAH T. KING.


[Column 1]

﻿IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XXIV.
	The preparations for the wedding of Dr.
Bland and Miss Conway were completed,
and the nuptials solemnized with due cere-
mony in the little Church at Dunstan Rec-
tory by the young Clergyman who had
only recently taken up his abode in that
diocese the Reverend George R. Hayward,
whose unassuming manner had endeared
him to the people among whom he was call-
ed to labor and as his father had been a
college friend of Dr. Bland's he took a
special interest in the young man, and,
though not a church going man, had really
been instrumental in getting him settled in
that vicinity, as soon as a vacancy had oc-
curred.
	Rob Harrison Esquire was present at the
wedding and gave away the bride, much as
his own heart rebeled against the marriage.
Many such tragedies occur in every day
life, only as in this instance the world are
not aware of the real truth, that lies con-
cealed underneath the mask society wears.
The truth was Rob Harrison loved Jane
Conway, from the moment he first saw her,
plain and unpretending as she appeared in
the eyes of others, he knew and felt the
magnet of her presence and appreciated the
beauties of character that passed unnoticed
by the society in which they moved. He
was loth to acknowledge even to himself
this passion that possessed him, and when he
found her the betrothed of another he was

[Column 2]

shamed within himself that he should be so
weak. After coming to Hilliard Castle he
made the acquaintance of Dr. Bland and
the two became fast friends, so that when
the preliminaries of the marriage were be-
ing arranged and the Doctor innocently
asked Mr. Harrison if he would give away
the bride as she had no near relative who
could be present, he consented at once.
What else could he do? And indeed he
was equal to the occasion for he had already
passed through ordeals that had given him
the strength and courage to suffer and en-
dure without outward sign of grief or
pain.
	Jane Conway in her ignorance of his true
feeling towards her struggled with herself,
and bore her part nobly and when the cere-
mony had been consummated, those who
were present saw only a smiling happy
bride and bridegroom and showered upon
them congratulations thicker than the
flowers which bestrewed their path from the
Church door to the carriage in waiting, for
Dr. Bland bore away his blushing wife to
the old home where anxious relatives were
waiting; the home coming of one long ab-
sent, and to meet and welcome the young
woman so faithfully described in his letters
to relatives in his childhood's home.
Strange indeed to the young wife was the
experience of the next few weeks, the
journey by lumbering coaches, the rural
scenery in the Spring time when all the
hedges were full of blossoms, the quaint
old-fashioned inns or hostelries where they
stopped at night—and the different dialects
of the provincial districts through which
they passed were all new and interesting in
the extreme to the young woman, who had
seen so little of her own country people, ex-
cept those of her own class; now she was
brought in contact with the people, saw
something of the actual condition of the
bone and sinew of those residing in the ru-
ral districts apart from the bustle of City
life and indeed from the manufacturing and
trades-people, cottagers and farmers who
were in a manner self-supporting and as in-
dependent in their way as the gentle folks
who drove in their own carriages with ser-
vants in livery. As a matter of fact these
people were less slaves to custom, and fashion
more their own masters and mistresses
than many of the titled aristocracy, who of-
ten had to resort to all sorts of subterfuges
to keep up appearances.
	These things became clear to this high-
minded young woman especially after she
reached the North of England where the
Doctor's relatives resided, and her husband
explained to her many things connected
with the affairs of the plain,honest,working
people, and she discovered what false views
were entertained by many of the young
folks with whom she had been associated in
regard to those who were really entitled to
greater honor than the aristocracy, who too
often looked down upon them and gave no
true recognition of their rights and privil-
eges as free-born men and women. Dr.
Bland was a great-souled man in all that
concerns humanity, and his wife appreciated
more and more day after day his true no-
bility of character.


[Column one]
	His family were not titled people but
more of the professional struggling class,
his father had been something of an as-
tromoner and mathematician,and his moth-
er the daughter of a clergyman who had held
rather ultra views concerning women and
in various points of doctrine, and the doc-
tor himself had kept outside of all the es-
tablished churches. But of both father and
mother there only remained the mounds in
the Church yard, but there were brothers
and sisters and aunts and cousins, and they
strove with each other to show the most
respectful attention to the newly married
relatives.
	Much as Jane Conway had dreaded the
marriage beforehand she enjoyed her
honeymoon as well as many who anticipate
such great happiness, and acknowledged to
herself, that she was greatly favored to
have such true enjoyment and to be learn-
ing so much of the real lives and homes of
her own country people of whose circum-
stances and feelings she had heretofore been
in such complete ignorance.
	We are often led by an unseen guide into
the ways that seemed marked out for our
destiny, we know not why or wherefore,
but in the sequel we learn it was to give us
experience or to prepare us for an unknown
future. So it seemed with Jane Conway
now Mrs. Bland, though her individuality
was too pronounced ever to be merged into
that of any man however strong the char-
acter of such an one might be, or what rev-
erent love she might cherish for him as a
husband.
	Dr. Bland fully appreciated her strength
of mind and superior intellect and he had
the experience that comes with years, and
the liberal profession and large practice of
a thoroughly educated physician. Possibly
had his wife never met Mr. Harrison she
might have given herself more fully to his
interests, but as it was she did not look be-
yond, except as the peculiar dream she had
just previous to her marriage would come
into her thoughts whatever plans she made.
	After some weeks spent in the country
places among relatives and friends the new-
ly married couple returned to the home
which had been so carefully remodeled.
The family at Hilliard Castle were anxious-
ly looking forward to their arrival and
Lady Anna was in great trouble with her
household affairs and much in need of
sound advice. Like many young house-
keepers Anna Hilliard had betrayed her ig-
norance of management to every one in the
establishment and had dismissed one after
another of those employed until scarcely
one remained of the household that had
been trained by her cousin: her first greet-
ing on the arrival of Mrs. Bland was,
“Cousin Jane there never was such totally
unmanageable set of servants as I have at
the house; everything goes wrong and I
must have some reliable woman to oversee
the place or Mrs. Burke will soon take en-
tire control and put me out.”
	“I am very sorry but until I see how I
am to manage my own affairs, I cannot
think of making suggestions to you, after
that we will see what can be done.”
	“Haven’t you seen some one in the
country suitable for such a position, I sent
you dozens of messages, and I supposed
you would think it important in view of
my ignorance of all such things.”
	“The people I saw were as independent of
such work as we are cousin Anna, and I
assure you that I have learned some very
useful almost invaluable lessons during my

[Column 2]
visit in the country, and it will make my
life broader and better, and I trust I shall
see things with a clearer vision than ever
before, and I trust be of more use in the
world than I would otherwise have been.”
	After having stated these facts to her
cousin Mrs.Bland sought to help her to bring
about a more settled state of affairs in the
castle and to show her the need of firmness
and dignity in the management of those in
her service. All this was beneficial to Lady
Anna though she was not one who could
ever undertake to do a great deal without
substantial help in the way of advice or a
strong arm to lean upon. Her cousin
knew this, and she could see how weak in
any such capacity Maitland Walton would
be, and it made her feel that she must do
whatever she could for her protection.
	In after years Lady Anna found how
much she owed to her cousin’s wise train-
ing and straightforward example.
	Dr. and Mrs. Bland were soon settled in
their own home and everything prospered
with them, but things were not to remain
so tranquil for very long, and within a short
time many events occurred that could not
have been anticipated unless by the spirit of
prophecy. Mrs. Bland felt by a remarkable
intuition that they were soon to leave their
native land yet what was to bring it about
she knew not. Lady Anna was preparing
for her marriage and Lady Walton was al-
most constantly with her helping with
suggestions and advice such as every young
girl needs who has no mother to watch
over her, and both Maitland and Anna were
as happy in the prospect of the union as
possible; the father had reluctantly consent-
ed though he had had several serious quar-
rels with his wife, and at one time threat-
ened to disinherit his son if he had no more
respect for his feelings than to marry into
the family of one who had been his sworn
enemy to the day of his death. A flood of
strange occurrences were sweeping down
like an avalanche upon Hilliard Castle and
those in its vicinity.

WOMAN’S SUFFRAGE CONVEN-
			TION.
	An executive session of the Utah Wo-
man’s Suffrage Association was held Oct.
5th, in the Fourteenth Ward assembly
rooms. Sarah M. Kimball presided. The
meeting was opened by the chaplain,Dr. E.
S. Barney. The minutes of the previous
session were read and accepted. The treas-
urer’s report was read and approved.
	The following Territorial officers were
re-elected; S. M. Kimball, president; E. S.
Richards, first vice president; Ann Groes-
beck,second vice president; C. E. Dye, third
vice president; Nellie Little, Sec. Julia
Taylor, Cor. Sec. Ruth M. Fox, Treas.
E. B. Wells, Ch. of Pub. Com., with L. G.
Richards and R. B Pratt members of that
committee; P. Y. Beatie, chairman of Ex.
Com., May Talmage, Margaret Caine,
Elizabeth McCune, Lydia Pierce and Em-
ma Finch members.
	Sarah M. Kimball, having been appointed
delegate to the Woman’s Convention at the
World’s Fair, was sustained by the ladies
present.
	Utah, Cache, Davis and Salt Lake Coun-
ities were reported by their delegates,
Celestia Reese of Box Elder was also
present.—Afternoon at 2 p. m. a Territorial
Convention was held in the same place and
largely attended. Sarah M. Kimball pre-
sided. Bathsheba W. Smith opened the

[Column three]
meeting with prayer.
	Miss Maude Pratt favored those present
with a song entitled, “Thinking.” The
names of the officers elected at the executive
session were sustained by the convention.
	Letters were read from Cor. Sec. of Nat.
W. S. A. and Nat. Council of Women in
relation to the World’s Fair.
	Addresses were given by E. S. Richards,
E. B. Wells, S. M. Kimball, M. I. Horne
and other ladies present.
			ADA C. CANNON, Sec'y,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A DELIGHTFUL RECEPTION.

	Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie of this City gave
a reception at her residence on West Tem-
ple Oct. 5th in honor of the delegates
to the Ter. W. S. A. convention held in
this city.   *     *     *   Her handsome parlors
were brilliantly lighted, and at 8 p. m. the
guests began to arrive. About fifty ladies
assembled and spent a most delightful even-
ing.
	Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, territorial presi-
dent of the Utah W. S. A., Mrs. Emily S.
Richards, lady president Utah World’s
Fair Commission, Mrs. Electa Bullock,
president Utah County W. S. A., Mrs.
Lucy A. Clark, president Davis County W.
S. A., Miss Celestia Reese, delegate from
Box Elder County W. S. A., Mrs. Hannah
Lapish, president American Fork W. S. A.,
Miss Lizzie Smith, president Kaysville W.
S. A., with many other prominent ladies
interested in woman’s advancement, were
present.
	Delicious refreshments were served to the
guests in the spacious dining hall, the table
being profusely decorated with beautiful
autumn flowers, the suffrage yellow pre-
dominating. Many of the ladies wore their
suffrage badges. Miss Maude May Bab-
cock, teacher of Delsarte and elocution,
favored the company with some choice
selections in her truly artistic, eloquent and
perfectly natural style. The first rendered
was entitled “Woman’s Power,” then
came “Catching the Train’,, humorous, fol-
lowed by the “Negro Mammy Putting
Baby to Sleep." She was heartily applaud-
ed by the appreciative audience. Music
came next, rendered by Hugh Dougall ac-
companied by Mr. Merrill. Altogether the
reception was a perfect success in social en-
joyment and the hostess, Mrs. Beatie as-
sisted by Mrs. Groesbeck, did the honors in
that easy, graceful manner that made all
feel at home with each other.


WOMEN have had equal rights with re-
gard to property from time immemorial
among the Basques, the oldest people in
Europe, whose Country is situated in the
north of Spain along the coast of the Bay
of Biscay.
	THE board of Lady Managers is contem-
plating bringing out for the World's Fair
an encyclopedia of the organizations con-
ducted by women, not only in the United
States, but the world. They are very anx-
ious to secure a full and correct list. Will
the president of every such organization
send to us at once, the name and address of
the organization that she represents? Send
to Helen M. Barker, 409 Rand-McNally
Building, Chicago, Illinois.
	By order of President of the Board of
Lady Managers.
			BERTHA M. H. PALMER.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


“THE EYES THAT CANNOT WEEP.”

The saddest eyes are those that cannot weep;
	The loneliest breast the one that sobbeth not;
	The lips and mind that are most parched and
		hot
Are those that cannot pray, and cannot sleep;
It is the silent grief that sinketh deep.
	To weep out sorrow is the common lot,—
	To weep it out and let it be forgot,—
But tears and sobs are after all but cheap.
To weep for worries, frets and trifling cares,
	For toys we've broken and for hopes that were
And fancied woes of passing love affairs;
	But only One can raise the breast of her
Whose hurt for fruitless moans had gone too
		deep.
Pity, O, God, the eyes that cannot weep.
					The Woman's Recorder.


'THE hope of truth grows stronger day by day;
I hear the soul of man around me waking,
Like a great sea, its frozen fetters breaking,
And flinging up to heaven its sunlit spray,
Tossing huge continents in scornful play,
And crushing them, with din of grinding thunder,
That makes old emptiness stare in wonder;
And every hour new signs of promise tell,
That the great soul shall once again be free,
For high, and yet more high, the murmurs swell
Of inward strife for truth and liberty.
								LOWELL.


PRESIDENT AYLESWORTH ON SUF-
			FRAGE.
	At the woman suffrage banquet given during
the recent Mississippi Valley Suffrage Confer-
ence at Des Moines, President Barton O. Ayles-
worth, of Drake University, responded as follows
to the toast, "Attend to the Women."
	"Attend to the women!" If this is not 
assuming authority with a Czar-like vicious-
ness! Not even an invitation—gentle,
persuasive, adroitly leading up to the de-
cisive point, but a stern command! More-
over, the subjects of attention seem to be 
many. Premature age has fallen upon me
like the shadow of a ghost, in my vain at-
tempts to attend to one woman—I had near-
ly said a single woman, but attentions came
easily then, with the myriad of gentleness-
es with which you women have taught us 
we must woo you from the paternal roof. 
	But which women? I still had hope,
vain as it now seems, until your committee
answered, and nothing in the tone of voice
reassured me in the least, "The women 
who do not want to vote." I immediately 
threw up my arms, but not as a menace to
[Column 2]
either the committee or the tabooed women.
I tremblingly stammer my fears: "Who 
shall attend to them? Surely not I." The 
potentates nodded their official heads, and
you beheld me, with my sleeves rolled up
metaphorically, for the fray. But no; the
metaphor is ill-chosen. These are women,
their mode of warfare otherwise. 
	It is true that there are women who do 
not care to vote, just as there are now and 
then anomalous cases who do not even 
wish to be married, much less seek oppor-
tunity. I once knew a woman who thor-
oughly believed in St. Paul's injunction to 
keep silence, and to be duly submissive—
just one. She has been translated. 
	I confess to you that I have but little
patience, with the woman who in this age of
her sex's evolution refuses to evolve. But-
terflies—those lower in the scale of being, 
I mean—do better. From caterpillar to 
chrysalis, they at least passively let nature
do her work, winning each to itself and its
destiny. But some women,like many men, 
how loudly do I confess it, most stubbornly 
resist the influence of this Hugoan age.
	My impatience may arise in part from the
recollection of my mother, whose life went
out from before me ere I could appreciate
her struggle. Twenty-five years ago, in a 
community exceedingly modest so far as 
education was concerned, she both taught
and spoke publicly and in church, where
beetle-browed elders sat in the owl-like
sternness and stupidity of knitted face and 
ill concealed righteous indignation. Gentle
as the "good night" of a baby's tender
mother, womanly in every sense of the 
word, with constancy of affection, that real
nobility of a woman, her endowment for
joint rulership in the affairs of both child-
ren and men; but with it all, a broader
range of learning, self-gotten, than was
possessed by any save one in the entire
community, uplifted on the levels of a 
rational faith—if I were to think anything
less than woman's equality with man in 
every high sense, it would be to give the
lie to every law of heredity and environ-
ment. You are not surprised now at my 
impatience.
	Yet one must always turn philosophical 
when he becomes a student of conditions.
	The abjectest wretchedness of slavery is
its contentment. The most irresistible and
 at the same time the most hurtful slavery is
the sort which comes by caresses rather than 
by blows. A mother could do no crueller
thing than to keep her babe in her arms, or
sustain it at her breast, through four or five
years—could she live so long. Cruel to 
herself as well the child. Her love might
be the motive. But love which kills not 
both lover and beloved has in it always
some reason, some calculation upon the
future, and some equality of companion-
ship.
	Gardens are valuable for nosegays, but
one likes bread oftenest. To make others
kneel is sometimes worthy, but to make 
men rise up and walk beside you, is better.
Stooping to conquer is poor business for an 
American women of any noble sort.
	To enter into a single corner of a man's
great four-square life will not content any
great woman's soul. The woman who can-
not stand at the horizon-centre and see with 
her husband the same distant contour of
possibilities, is no helpmeet in the better
meaning. To make indifferent American 
women feel these truths is the first attention
to be paid them. The indirect method is
the better. Let the women at this board
[Column 3]
to-night be such, in every way of culture
and heart power, as shall first commend and
then win the conviction that the emanci-
pated woman is cleaner, happier, more use-
ful, and far more respected by men and wo-
men alike, than the enslaved, and the surest
part of your work is done. 
	 I have been exceedingly gratified with 
the quality of womanhood in this move-
ment. It gives me the largest hope for its
ultimate success. I have found a grace 
which has a quality not of the drawing-
room alone, as realists say, it has a "tang" 
about it. If you can imagine music with-
out timbre, you will get my idea of the 
forms of polite society into which the life of
sex equality has not yet come. I have
found also a sprightliness of conversation
not born of blushing acknowledgement of
half sincere, and sometimes suggestive, 
flattery, but of much thought and reading.
Moreover, and above all, a moral rigidness
in discerning ethical standards, which 
means a vast deal in this loose age—an ex-
alted concept of righteousness and interde-
pendence.
	All this betokens a listening ear to the 
wailing of the unfortunate, a critical mind
for granting justice in an age which at last
begins to suspect that full justice has not
yet been done those most needing it.
	The direct method, largely temporary, is
to gain, by literature and public and politi-
cal address, the thought of the thoughtless.
Just now no field is more productive than 
good fiction. Turn some of your facile
pens to the novel. Give us more women in 
character whose lives are above petty things
and scornful of hysterical affection, not un-
natural women, but a wholesome realism
to be fonnd already in thousands of homes.
	I sat on a rock beside a mountain brook
this summer, for an hour, watching two
birdlings just fallen from the nest. One
soon developed his jerky little hop into a 
flutter, and then into an awkward short 
flight, in a dizzy circle, back again to his
panting sister tinier than her who merely 
squeaked little half pitiful tones, as in a 
kind of agony she stuggled to do what
the other had so soon learned. I was per-
plexed over her seeming stupidity. The 
braver fledgling, approaching cautiously,
seemed to make a discovery, and with bad-
ly directed little peckings sought to undo
the evil. In the mother-nest, a cord, pro-
bably a very important part of the nest,
had been wound about the helpless bird,
and entangled in its untrained wings.
	I immediately released it from its home
nest meshes, and soon it had out-flown its 
companion.
	I believe in God the Father; in Christ the
ideal man, and the divine educator of men
toward the levels of his own personality; I 
believe in the futnre of the race as the
bright consummation of the Eternal Plan;
therefore, I must and do believe in the 
equality of sex in every vital relation of 
the race. In birth; in life—its woe, and
its happiness; in death, and in the Here-
after.—The Woman's Journal.


We wish to call the attention of our read-
ers and the public at large to the advertis-
ment of Dr. Mattie Hughes Cannon, who
has reopened her office in this city and is
prepared to attend to calls in her profession.
We take pleasure in making this announce-
ment, as we always do for young women of
our own community who have had energy
and perseverence to make their own way in
this laudable profession.


A POET’S RECOMPENSE.

		SARA LOUISA OBERHOLTZER.

WHEN friendships shout and fan the pile to blaze,
When forks of fame reach up, nor know their
	height;
When tenderness stoops down to gently praise
And what we value most and least to raise
Beyond their equillibrium, we smile.
When censures hurl and blaze is lost to sight,
In the chill bitterness of passing night.
And tenderness becomes a rose of thorns,
Petals and fragrance gone, again, and while,
We all unconscious smile; the same we feel
Errands of song we joyfully fulfill
Are but half ours. A rare and subtle sense
Of what they are; the violets of God’s will,
Is great and all sufficient recompense.
					The Woman's Tribune.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street,
second gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	OCTOBER 15, 1892.


THE OCTOBER CONFERENCE.

	THE General Semi-Annual Conference of the
Church which commenced in the large Taber-
nacle in this City Oct. 6, and closed Sunday
afternoon Oct. 9, was certainly one of the most
interesting and instructive Conferences that has
ever been held. The spirit of the teaching and
the manifest power that rested upon the several
speakers, was felt and appreciated by the congre-
gation of Latter day Saints in a manner apparent
to all who were present, and there will doubtless
be an awakening to the sacredness and duties of
the obligations resting upon this people, that will
extend through all the Stakes of Zion. That this
is the most interesting time in the history of the
Church must be the impression of all those who
are watching the signs of the times, when the
greatest events are about to transpire that have
been predicted  by ancient and modern prophets
and Apostles.
	Here at the centre Stake of Zion the most
magnificant sacred edifice that has been reared
for many centuries to the name of the Lord is
nearing its completion, and it would seem only in
keeping with the fact that it is about to be dedi-
cated that those professing to believe in all the
doctrines, principles and ordinances pertaining
to this holy place, should be prepared for so
solemn and momentous an occasion. The people
have had line upon line and precept upon pre-
cept concerning these things, and yet many have
been careless and indifferent to the warning voice
and have preferred to use the means for their own
aggrandizement over which they are only
stewards, instead of the building of Temples or
the spread of truth for the salvation of the world.
Such sermons as were preached at this late Con-
ference are calculated to arouse those who are
desirous of assisting in this great and grand work
and who through other influences have in the
past been negligent or forgetful of the great re-
sponsibility attached to those who have taken
upon themselves the name of Latter-day Saint.
	Many grand and inspiring themes were treated
upon which must be uplifting in their tendency to
those who are faithful and true, and who have
spent their lives and their means in advancing
the cause of righteousness upon the earth. The
meek and humble ones whom our Heavenly
Father delights to own and bless, these were fed
with the bread of life, and for all there was a word
in due season that will not fail to sink deep into
the heart of every attentive listener.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE General Semi-Annual Conference of the
Relief Society convened in the Salt Lake Assem-
bly Hall in this City on Monday, October 10, 1892.
Some special business was transacted in the after


noon session which will be given to our readers
in full in the next issue of the paper.

	THE Territorial Fair which was held in this
City commencing October 4, was very interesting
to all who have the welfare and progress of Utah
and her people at heart, and great pains was
taken by the management to make as fine an
exhibit as possible to give the public an idea of
what can be done by this community for the
World’s Fair next year.

	THE dedication ceremonies of the Columbian
Exposition will take place in Chicago on the 21st
of the present month, and many Utah people
have gone including the National Board of
Lady Managers for Utah and the Presi-
dent of the World’s Fair Commission of ladies
for Utah, Mrs. Emily S. Richards, these ladies
will obtain all the information possible and be
able to diffuse it among those who are working
here, as they will be present at the general meet-
ing called for the National Board of Lady
Managers.

	Mrs. Laura De Force Gordon a lady lecturer
well known throughout the country is now in
Utah speaking in the interest of the Democratic
party. She is an eloquent and forcible speaker
and understands the political condition of the
country at large, as well perhaps as any woman
who is on the lecture platform. She expects to
make a tour through the Territory speaking in
many or all of the counties. We may have
more to say of her work at another time.


[column 1]
			ALFRED TENNYSON.
		POET LAUREATE OF ENGLAND.
	Alfred Tennyson the Poet Laureate of England
(created Lord by Her Majesty Queen Victoria of
Great Britain and Empress of India) departed this
life a little past midnight (the poet's hour) at 1.30
o'clock October 6, 1892; the dispatches state that
he gradually lost his strength, growing weaker
and feebler little by little painlessly until the end
came peacefully as flowed the li e of the passing
soul. Death came as he would have wished it
calmly and without outward disturbance.
	"There was no artificial light in the room; only
the mellow rays of the autumn moon lit up the
chamber in which the dying man lay, and fell
across the bed, bathing him in pure, pellucid
light forming a rembrandtesque background to
the scene. All were silent save the gentle
soughing of the wind through the trees around
the mansion-a fitting requiem for a poet who
sang of the love and beauty of nature. So quietly
did his soul depart that the members of the family
were not aware of the fact till announced by the
attendant physician. Once or twice during the
the night he lifted his eyes to the faces of the
watchers and a peaceful smile played over his
features."
	Lady Tennyson bore up well when all was
over. The poet will be buried in the Poet's
corner of Westminster Abbey next to Browning's.
Dr. Bridge is setting to music Tennyson's beauti-
ful poem, "Crossing the Bar," which the laureate
wrote about a year and a half ago. He intends
the music to be played at the poet's funeral.
Robert Buchanan the poet and dramatist, has
written an obituary poem on the death of Tenny-
son. It concludes with these lines:

Peace to the Knight who kept his vow while
	others slept like sand,
But who shall sing to mortals now of that lost
	fairy land?

Sir Edwin Arnold has also written the follow-
ing beautiful poem:

[column 2]
No moaning of the bar, sail forth strong ship
Into that gloom which has God's face for light,
Not a dirge, but a proud farewell from each fond
	lip,
And praise, abounding praise, and fame's faint
	starlight,
Lamping this tuneful soul to that large noon
Where thou shalt quire with angels. Words of
	woe
Are for the unfulfilled, not thee, whose moon
Of genius sinks full-orbed, glorious, aglow.
No moaning of the bar, musical drifting
Of Time's waves turning to the eternal sea,
Death's soft wind all thy gallant canvass lifting,
And Christ thy pilot to the peace that be.
	
	The Times calls Tennyson the "English Virgil"
on account of his mastery of lofty, graceful and
sonorous verse. Never since Milton it says, has
England heard such stately blank verse as "Idyls
of the King."
	Swinburne will probably be his successor.
	"Lord Tennyson looks fifteen years younger
than before his death. His beard has been care-
fully trimmed and his hands folded over his chest.
A laurel wreath crowns his head and another lies
at his feet. Burning wax tapers lend a subdued
light to the chamber. The Bishop of Winchester
will preach the funeral sermon in Haselmere
Church on Sunday.
	"All the members of the Tennyson family as-
sembled and took their last look at the dead be-
fore the coffin lid was closed and screwed down.
Lady Tennyson was the last to leave the room
and alone in the sacredness of her sorrow she
bade a final adieu.

		THE REMAINS OF THE POET INTERRED.
	"With all honors which the church could be-
stow, in the presence of many eminent men of
letters, statesmen and nobles, the remains of
Tennyson were interred in the Poet's corner at
Westminster Abbey Oct. 12. The Jerusalem
corner contained a mass of rare floral offerings,
including a laurel wreath from the Queen.
	The remains were laid beside those of Brown-
ing.
	The Queen also sent a metallic wreath of laurel
appropriately inscribed . The procession formed
at noon in the Jerusalem chamber; the coffin was
borne on the shoulders of stalwart men. Among
the pall-bearers were Henry White, U. S. lega-
tion secretary, and Lord Salisbury. The mourn-
ers followed the coffin; then the household
servants, representatives of the Queen, and other
royal persons.
	On reaching the chancel, the coffin was set
down at the foot of the altar, and Canon Duck-
worth opened with the service for the dead;
then the choir chanted the 10th psalm. After the
lesson for the day was read, the choir sang
Tennyson's last poem "Silent Voices." The
body was then borne to the Poet's Corner, and,
after further services, was committed to the
grave beside Browning. Benediction was pro-
nounced by the Archbishop of Canterbury."
	Alfred Tennyson was born in the year 1810, at
Somerby, Lincolnshire. The family was a large
one, he being the third. At a very early age he
manifested a talent for writing verse, and pub-
lished in 1827 a volume entitled "Poems of Two
Brothers" the joint production of himself and his
brother Charles. He completed his studies at
Trinity College, Cambridge, and two years after
the poet published "Timbuctoo" for this he re-
ceived the Chancellor's medal. In 1842 the poet
sent forth to the world two Volumes that gave
him the honor of the laurel-crowned songster of
the British realm. Tennyson has really been for
many years the special favorite of many of the
people of both continents.
	At another time we shall be glad to publish
more concerning the poet laureate whom we
ardently admired and whose peotry has touched 
the heart of the writer as much or more than any
other, especially "In Memoriam."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
			FROM FAR AWAY.

		FAGALII, UPOLU, SAMOA,
							Sept. 11, 1892.
Dear EXPONENT Readers:
	As I sit here on this quiet Sabbath day and
listen to the splash and roar of the ocean waves,
my mind involuntarily reverts to a few brief
months ago and in fancy I find myself in one of
your cozy parlors, and would like to tell you
something abont the strange land and curious
people I have seen since leaving Our Valley
Home.
	Sister Hilton and I live together in a comfort-
able little cottage in the village of Fagalii.
	This village—this cottage is the mission home
and usually President Browning and one or two
other elders are there, while the rest of the
brethren are dispersed over the islands in pairs
and live with the natives in their rude peculiar
huts, sleeping on mats spread on the ground, and
eating food which I don't think you would con-
sider at all tempting could you see it when spread
out ready to partake of.
	We have only two church members among the
natives of Fagalii; both women who have em-
braced the Gospel recently and seem to be very
sincere in their convictions. Besides these there
are a number who are very friendly and may join
us in the good cause ere long.
	We visit our friends often and although we are
unable to say much to them, they are ever
pleased to see us and show their love by trying
to make us as comfortable as is possible. Let
me describe one of those visits to you. It oc-
curred a few weeks ago when Sister Fetoai had
been ill for a few days and was hardly yet able to
sit up. She and another old lady were the only
occupants of the house and as they saw Sister
H. and I approaching Fetoai sat up on her mat-
bed and hurriedly put on her mother hubbard
that she might be ready to receive us. We had
learned to walk slowly on nearing a house so as
to give the people time to dress, so we found our
friend looking tidy enough in her calico wrapper
when we entered. A clean mat was spread for
us to sit on, which we accepted and though find-
ing it somewhat difficult tried to sit Samoan
fashion. We inquired about our sister's health
in a few words which had been taught us before
leaving home and which we had been repeating
to ourselves on the way, and when she told us
she was "malolo," we did not know whether she
was better or worse until we went home and got
the interpretation of the word.
	Our stock of words being now exhausted we
remained silent, while a conversation was carried
on between the two women the import of which
we soon guessed, for they began to hunt some-
thing for us to eat. We were not hungry but
could not tell them so and were afraid to refuse
to eat for fear of giving offense so we decided to
try to get down a few bites. The first course
was a ripe bananna each, which we could have
eaten with relish but for the peculiar smell of the
place; next came a piece of baked bread-fruit
and cooked green banannas. All were laid on
the mat before us, and while endeavoring to dis-
pose of the first bananna, we sat gazing at our
table and then at each other and wondering what
we had better do about it. While we wondered
the old lady took a large leaf from a basket in
which we knew some delicacy was hidden, but
oh! how we did hope she would not offer us any
of it. Sister H. said "O dear, let's go" but I did
not see how we could just then so we remained
sitting while she uncovered the dainty viands.
Our stomachs literally turned over at sight of the
mess; it was what the natives call "gau;" I do
not know what it was composed of I'm sure;
something they get from the sea when the tide is
low—a kind of worm I would say—I think if you
were to cut the entrails of a chicken up fine,
[Column 2]
gizzard and contents, craw and all and mix, you
would have something resembling it in appear-
ance and smell—cannot say as to taste for we did
not eat the gau.
	Taking a piece of the bread-fruit in our hands
we took our departure, after thanking them for
their kindness and bidding them "tofa."
	Returning to our home we related the ex-
perience to the brethren, who had a good laugh
at our expense, for such meals are often spread
before them and they are not at a loss to know
how to act either, for they have learned long ago
how to appreciate Samoan hospitality.
	The Samoans prepare many varieties of food
which are altogether unpalatable to us and in
many of their customs and habits are very de-
graded indeed, but while this is a fact it is also
true that there are honest souls among them and
these our faithful elders are diligently seeking to
find.
	We hope to be able to assist a little in the good
work and to this end desire the prayers and faith
of all our good sisters in Zion. One lesson we
are sure will be indelibly impressed upon our
minds if we learn nothing more while we are here, 
and that is to appreciate our homes and their
surroundings when once we are permitted to re-
turn. And not only will we appreciate our
homes but how much will we learn to love and
cherish the dear relatives and friends whom we
have left, after being separated from them for a
season!
	May heaven's richest blessings attend the
sisters in Zion in all their efforts to do good, and
may we all be enabled to fulfill our duties aright
in whatever position we may be placed.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion and her
loving mothers and fair daughters, I remain,
		Your sister in the Gospel,
						ANNIE D. STEVENS.


W. S. A. SPRINGV1LLE.

	A MEETING of the Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion held in the Springville meeting house, Sept.
22, 1892. President S. A. Boyer in the chair.
Singing “Come, come away.” Prayer by Mrs.
Straw. Minutes read and approved. President
Boyer said, “We have met to hear and study the
Politcal Status of women, the women of America
are free in every sense except before the law.
Wished to hear from the Ter. Pres., Sarah M.
Kimball. Mrs. Kimball said her presence here
showed her feelings; did not believe in ignorant
votes, thought men were not posted as they
should be. The business of today is for women
to educate themselyes so as when they have the
ballot they may be able to vote for the best good
for the town or city in which they live, for the
Nation, and for the best good for the greatest
number, that all should be able to vote for the
best good of the many. The ideas of the best
and broadest-minded men of today, are that wo-
men should be recognized in politics. As for the
World’s Fair, we should not prepare our costume
or wardrobe, but wait until we see what is de-
cided by the Committee appointed on Dress Re-
form, and if accepted wear it, that is for those
that wish to. She honored those men that upheld
the Constitution in believing all to be free and
equal before the law, and they would be honored
in the future. 
	Mrs. Emily Richards said men and particularly
men reporters scared her, spoke of suffrage being
such a hard name, encouraged women to try and
fit themselves so as to be true companions for
their husbands, would like to see every woman
come here as intelligent beings ready to receive
the ballot, that we should prepare ourselves to
join hands with the women of the world and be
honorably noted as women of Utah. We are an
organized body and should go ahead and work
systematically and on a basis with men, prepare
yourselves for the ballot and you will get it. If
the simple fact of going to the polls and voting is
so degrading, go and help purify them. If wo-
men, as they do, have to earn their own living,
educate them that they may earn it in the most
respectable and beneficial way. Did not believe
in neglecting duties at home, but we forget that
all women do not have homes and families, when
we have it is the family first and then all else, we
can. Turn our social entertainments into some
kind of meeting to instruct ourselves. She urged
all to go to the World’s Fair that could. Was
very well pleased with the organization in Spring-
ville. 
	Song by Miss Nellie Holley, “The Bridge."
Ex-Mayor Booth of Provo, said, President, wo-
men and men.: His impression was, there was a
great deal expected of him but was afraid they
would get disappointed, did not remember when
he was converted to suffrage, but it was before he
ever heard of it, always believed it, and always
advocated it. In April 1882 a state convention
was held in Salt Lake, some of the ladies did ex-
cellent work in committees, thought women
would do much better work now because they
were better posted; believed good results would
come from harmony in Politics as well as the
home. That in 1847 the first laws of Utah
were participated in by woman, and that the wo-
men of Utah were the pioneers in this move of
Suffrage. Thanked the women for saving the
whole Territory from being disfranchised,through
their influence. The true make up of man is
physical, mental, and spiritual. That women are
spiritually man’s superior, that men always excel
in all higher callings, but there are more good


[Column 1]
﻿women. Take well balanced men or women and
they will never slop over and what is so of an in-
dividual is so of a community, and in order to be
well balanced we must cultivate, wherever we
are deficient.
	During the time women voted in Utah, he
never saw any disorderly conduct at the polls,
that of itself is worth thinking of.  The ballot is a
right that all should demand.  It is a right not a
privilege.  When women have this right it will
tend to purge the ballot of its wicked and corrupt
ways.  Believed among the first things granted
would be the right of Suffrage to women. Strike 
out the word "Male" the same as the word
"White" in 1862.  My vote is my property and I
believe in voting as I please and to the best of my
knowledge.  Educate yourselves that you may
know independently of what your husband or 
brother does or says?  not only yourselves but 
your family.  If only one can be educated let it
be the daughters, and they will in turn educate
their families.  Believed in taking an interest in
the World's Fair, also in Dress Reform.  Woman
should not get overturned, but educate in all
things necessary for filling both places, and she
should have a right to control her property and
also her person, that men will have to educate
themselves as well as women on different points.
Trusting all would be interested in this, as a jus
cause.
	Mrs. Kimball was under the impression, if
Bishop Booth would speak it would inspire her
to speak, that this right of Suffrage was going to
be felt more and more in the world.  By and by,
women, through their tact, will do something
but they must be more liberal.  As a class wo-
men are so penurious, that they will give nothing
to help the cause, men will give willingly to help
theirs.  Was pleased with the Association in 
Springville and was pleased to be present, and
each individual could help to make it what it
should be, also said marriage, too often ended
woman's life and education.
	W. H. Kelsey said, this is a great and grand
work, started to ameliorate the sufferings of
humanity, said the first hospital was reared under
the direction and presence of Isabella the
Spanish Queen, spoke of the great good women
had done, and they do not receive one tenth part
the credit that is due them.  Garabaldi's wife
followed him through all the changing scenes
that that remarkable man went through, and in
their days of adversity she used her red skirt and
her white bed spread or counter-pane, and made
a flag which Garabaldi used on his victorious
marches resulting in the Emancipation of the
fair land Italy.  While great honor is due him
surely some credit is due his wife. So far as the
Suffrage is concerned with the stroke of the pen
of Abraham Lincoln, eight millions of the colored
race received their emancipation. The male
portion of which had, over 21 years of age, the
full privilege of political suffrage, no difference if
they can neither read nor write, while double the
number of the Anglo-Saxon race, forming a great
part of this nation, were denied the ballot be-
cause of being females. Speaking of women the
speaker stated, the Almighty in placing us upon 
this earth designed us to be equal, not in the
ascendency, but equal, nothing more.  Women
have brought about many reforms but have re-
ceived little credit for it. Spoke of John
Bunyon's "Pilgrims Progress" a work nearly as
extensively read as the Bible, and that to a great
extent was produced through the sacrifice and
industry of his wife that lived during his impri-
sonment of twelve years.  He also mentioned the
services of Florence Nightingale during the
Crimean war, and also the mother of Napoleon,
how she followed her husband on the battle field
against the French forces, but a short time before
the birth of that great General Napoleon.
	Regreted that all our ladies did not emulate

[Column 2]
our President Mrs. Boyer in becoming better
educated in Civil Government.  A lady who in
connection with her husband can run a business
and raise a family and find time to study Civil
Government and Parliamentary Rules, deserves
great credit. Trusted he would always have a 
kind word for the Suffrage Ladies.
	Mrs. Bullock said when she heard such speak-
ers it enthused her, did not feel to take up the
time, but wanted her political freedom.
	D. C. Johnson felt as though there had been
enough said, had been a suffragist all his lfie,
never could see why a woman was not his or any
other man's equal before the law.  It is an ele-
vation not a degradation to vote, Do you find
any suffragist suffering as the great men who
first spoke in behalf of the colored race?  No.
Women do not be discouraged, in ten years from
this day women throughout the United States,
will have the right of the ballot.
	The President trusted that the benefits of the
day will tend to bring all those interested in the
common welfare of women to the front.  Singing.
Prayer by Mrs. Lapish of american Fork.
	E. J. HAYWOOD, Sec.
	EVENING'S ENTERTIANMENT.
	The parlors of the Boyer House at Springville
were filled with guests the evening after the
day's celebration and a most sociable time of en-
joyment was participated in.  There were present
from Salt Lake City, Sarah M. Kimball Ter..
Pres., Emily S. Richards Vice Pres. W. S. A. and
President of the Utah World's Fair Commission
and Carrie E. Dye also Vice Pres. W. S. A.,
Electa Bullock of Provo, Pres. Utah Co., W. S. A.
and Hannah Lapish, Pres American Fork W.
S. A. Other ladies and gentlemen from Provo
and civinity were among the invited guests.
There were speeches, songs, recitations and
music interspersed and at 10 p. m the guests
were seated in the dining room where an elabor-
ate dinner was served.  Under each plate was a 
bouquet of yellow flowers (the suffrage color)
which were worn the remainder of the evening.
The conversation was animated and merry even,
and all were delighted with the arrangements
and success of the whole affair. The hostess Mrs.
S. A. Boyer who is also the Pres. of Springville
W. S. A. was heartily applauded for making
everything so pleasant and gratifying, and her
husband also came in for a full share in the
honors.  Altogether it was an event long to be
remembered by all who had the good fortune to
be among the happy number, and those who were
not present will certainly regret the ill-luck that
prevented their attendance.


U. W. P. CLUB.

	U. W. P. Club called to order by the President,
E. B. Wells. Opened by prayer, L. T. Freeze.
Roll called and minutes read and approved.
Preliminary business transacted. Original article
by L. G. Richards entitled “Work and Love—
Children,” read by Secretary E. R. Shipp.
	Trip to England written and read by Gladys
Woodmansee. Trip to Alaska, oral description
by Miss N. V. Davis; Totome poles definitely de-
scribed, various tribes of Durango Indians habits
and modes of living, sun shining at 11 o’clock at
night; interment of bodies covered with pearl
buttons: islands and deep green water, snow-
capped mountains and gushing cascades at
Toqua inlet, glacier iceberg, dead river yet
still alive, live icebergs crushing into the water.
At Juno a wall of gray stone. Pictures covered
with gold and silver, and pictures of Raphael’s
at the Greek Church each valued at twenty
thousand dollars. Church at Zitka a Gem of the
purest water; visited Mission Shool. Indian
River, Bainoff Castle, Indian Village, Mine
Glacier, very beautiful and wonderful mountains,
Mt. Fairweather fifteen thousand feet high.
Boise City charming, but Salt Lake most beauti-
ful.
	Poem read by Phebe C. Young. E. B. Well’s
travels and sojourn in Wallace, Idaho—strikes,
affairs, etc., in Coeur d’ Alene.
	The President suggested that a meeting be
called during the coming General Conference so
that ladies from the country could attend. Those
who belong and others who would like to join.
Decided to select a favorable night and publish
in the papers.
	Programme for next meeting, Roll call with
original sentiment; Continuation of N. V. Davis’s
trip to Alaska; Continuation of Gladys Wood-
mansee’s trip to England; Poem by Josephine


Spencer; Poem by Ruth M. Fox; Strikes in
Northern Idaho by E. B. Wells; Poem, Syntethia
Dickinson; Song, Maggie Basset.
					E. R. SHIPP, Rec. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

			CASSIA STAKE.
Editor EXPONENT:
	The conference of the Relief Society of
the Cassia Stake convened at Oakley Sept.
19,1892.
	On the stand were Pres. Louisa Haight
and Counselors with the ward presidents.
	The conference was opened by singing
and prayer; the various branches reported
in a favorable condition by their presidents.
	Words of instruction were spoken by the
President and her Counselors; after which
Brother F. Brim occupied the remainder of
the morning session.
	In the afternoon Brother H. D. Haight
read the minutes of the organization meet-
ing of the Relief Society at Nauvoo. Sister
Sarah Worthington bore her testimony con-
cerning those early days. Sisters Annie
Bird, Pres. Worthington and M. G. Homer
spoke encouragingly to the sisters.


General and Stake officers were sustained.
Conference adjourned for three months.
				LOUISA PICKET, Sec.


ONEIDA STAKE.
Editor WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	The annual conference of the Relief
Society of Oneida Stake, convened at
Franklin on Sunday, Sept, 18, 1892 at 11
a. m. Pres. Elizabeth Fox presided. Con-
ference opened with singing by the choir
and prayer by Pres. Geo. C. Parkinson.
	The minutes of previous conference were
read and approved.
	Pres. Fox expressed pleasure in seeing so
many assembled. Several wards were re-
ported in flourishing condition.
	Sisters Hogan and Townsend of Logan
each made a few interesting remarks on
Relief Society work. Adjourned until 2
p. m.
	Afternoon session: Opened with usual
exercises and reading of the semi-annual
report of the branches of the Relief Society.
	Sister Townsend exhorted the sisters who
had families to attend their meetings, and
obtain the spirit of the Lord to assist them
in their various duties at home. Advised
all to keep the Word of Wisdom,” as it is
a great safe guard against sickness.
	Sister Hogan spoke at some length on
the Word of Wisdom, said the Revelation
was given to us to obey, that the destroy-
ing angel would pass us by. Spoke of the
plagues and famines that are to come upon
us, said if she could prevent it not one
bushel of grain should go out of this valley,
this year, but be stored away for future use.
	Pres. Geo. C. Parkinson spoke of the
various duties of women in raising their
families in a proper way; said that “The
hand that rocks the cradle, rules the world,”
also endorsed remarks of previous speakers.
Pres. Fox made a few closing remarks.
	Choir sang an Anthem. Benediction by
Elder I. B. Nash.
		JOSEPHINE BRAWLEY, Ass’t. Sec.


ST. JOHN’S STAKE.
Editor EXPONENT:
	Conference of the Relief Society of the
St. Johns Stake of Zion was held at St.
Johns Sept. 3rd, 1892. On the stand were
the Presidency of the Stake, Pres. of the
R. S. of the Stake, Counselor and several
leading sisters. After the usual opening
exercises, reports of the wards and Stake
were read, officers of the Central Board,
Stake and wards were presented and sus-
tained unanimously.
	Counselor Frances White addressed the
assembly briefly, bearing testimony of the
truth of the Gospel.
	Pres. E. L. S. Udall expressed herself
as well pleased, during her recent visit to
the Relief Society branches of the Stake at
the hearty welcome she received and the
good spirit manifest among the sisters, al-
though the meetings generally are not as
well attended as they should be.
	Read a circular letter from the EXPONENT
to secretaries requesting them to send re-
ports of the Relief Society Jubilee to Sister
E. B. Wells
	Sister Phoebe A. Mc’Neil spoke of the
necessity of an established confidence be-
tween parents and children.
	Sister Mary E. B. Farr spoke of the
blessings of the Gospel which are predicted
upon obedience to its principles.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Pres. D. K. Udall read from the Doctrine
and Covenants a portion of a revelation to
the Prophet Joseph Smith in regard to the
eternity of the marriage covenant and said:
"Husbands and wives should exercise
patience and charity with each other for
God has promised us kingdoms, principal-
ities and powers if we are faithful to Him
and each other, even that we shall be kings
and queens, in our Fathers kingdom.
	In regard to the use of tobacco he said:
“It is not good for man.” It is contrary to
the Word of Wisdom and impregnates the
system with evil. Spoke strongly against
its use.
	The congregation sang “The spirit of
God like a fire is burning.” Benediction
was pronounced by Pres. Wm. Gibbons.
				MARY E. B. FARR, Sec.


MEXICAN MISSION.
	The fifth quarterly Conference of this
Mission was held in the spacious school-
house at Colonia, Juarez, Chihuahua,
Mexico, on Monday, August 29, 1892.
President Mary Eyring presiding. There
was an excellent attendance, several of the
leading brethren of the Mission favored us
with their presence, Apostle George Teas-
dale, Patriarch Henry Lunt, A. F. Mc’
Donald of the Presidency of the Mission,
Bishops George W. Sevey of Juarez, Wins-
low Farr of Dublan, Jesse N. Smith Jr. of
Pacheco, and others.
	The hymn “Lord we come before thee
now,” was sung. Prayer was offered by
Bishop Sevey, singing ‘Glorious thinge are
sung of Zion,” and minutes of the last
Conference read and approved. Then fol-
lowed the reading of the half yearly reports.
	President Mary B. Eyring, after expres-
sing the happiness she enjoyed in her labors
and the steady progress being made by the
Society; exhorted the sisters to be faithful
and true to the trust reposed in them, in
fulfilling all the obligations of true woman-
hood. Sister Mary Porter of Pacheco,
Emma Barber of Diaz, Ida J. Mortensen of
Dublan, and Susan Martineau of Juarez,
represented the ward branches in good pro-
gressive condition.
	Counselor Cynthia Stowell and Ellen
Lunt addressed the Conference in an ex-
cellent spirit, President A. F. Mc’Donald,
Bishop G. W. Sevey and President George
Teasdale made very encouraging remarks.
The subjects treated upon were, the valued
labors of the officers and members of the
Relief Society; the gathering together of
earnest women interested in the establish-
ment of righteousness upon the earth, and
acting as ministering angels by precept and
example,encouraging the virtues of modesty,
purity and chastity; visiting the widow and
fatherless in their afflictions, and keeping
themselves pure and unspotted from the
world, being full of integrity to the Gospel
of our Lord Jesus Christ; woman’s greatest
mission being to assist in the establishment
of righteousness upon the earth, for which
she is so qualified by nature.
	The authorities of the Relief Society of
the Church and of the Mexican Mission
were unanimously sustained, and the Con-
ference adjourned until Monday, November
28, 1892.
	The benediction was pronounced by
Patriarch Henry Lunt. We had an excel-
lent Conference.
			M. E. TEASDALE, Sec.
	P. S.	In the spring we had heavy frosts
and it was anticipated all the fruit was
destroyed but thanks to our Heavenly


Father we have had an abundance of fine
blackberries, peaches, plums, grapes, a few
strawberries, apples and pears.  Larger and
more luscious peaches than we have had
would be difficult to find any where.
	More grain was raised here this year than
ever before notwithstanding the dry season.
We have lately had a number of nice rains
that have raised the water in the river and
started the grass.
	We feel greatly blessed and encouraged,
and that this is a good country for Latter-
day Saints.
							M. E. T.


Editor EXPONENT:
	President Anna L. Ivins of the Relief 
Society of the St. George Stake, realizing
the necessity of the branches in the North
Western settlements being visited, previous
 to our September conference, and not being
able to make the trip herself, it was decided
her Counselors Ann C. Woodbury and
Hannah M. Miles should make the trip.
	Accordingly on the 13th of August,accom-
panied by Counselor Mary G. Whitehead of
the Primary of this Stake, we left St. George
for Gunlock where our first opportunity for
meeting was 4 p.m., and notwithstanding
a number of the sisters were away from
home and others had sickness in their
families, we had a good meeting, Elizabeth
Truman presiding; and although this settle-
ment is not on the main road and in con-
sequence is visited but seldom, the sisters
are awake to their duties.  On the morning
of the 14th we continued our journey over
one of the worst roads that can be imagined,
to Pine Valley where we held meeting at 
4 p. m.  Dorinda Slade presides over the 
Relief Society; Bishop William Gardner
met with us, and while but few were in at-
tendance a most excellent spirit prevailed. 
	At 6 p. m. we met with the Primary, 
which is ably conducted under the watch 
care of Cynthia B. Gardner.
	On the 5th, after traveling sixteen miles, 
we were welcomed by the people of Pinto
where meeting was held with the Relief
Society at 2 p. m., Mrs. Ann Knell, Presi-
dent; the Bishop of this ward Robert Knell,
was present at our meeting.  We had a
very good time this being one of the settle-
ments where the people live at home and 
board themselves, their land produces grain
and vegetables sufficient for their own wants
and to spare, they have herds of cattle, some
fine houses, in addition to which they have
a good sheep herd; so that they have their
own beef, pork, butter, cheese and plenty
of wool for their clothing; in fact I do not 
know of a more self-sustaining community
than Pinto in this Stake of Zion.
	After meeting we proceeded to Hamlin
a branch of the Pinto Ward, and at 7 p. m.
met with Relief Society and Primary com-
bined; as the place is small the audience
was small, but good attention was paid to
what was said, and I feel that good was ac-
complished.  On the 16th we proceeded to
Hebron, this is another place where the 
people are engaged in the stock business.
many had moved out to their ranches, the 
town is nearly deserted, the floods having
left them without water for their gardens or
for culinary purposes, except what is
hauled from a distance; all of which how-
ever will be overcome in the near future as
the poeple contemplate a reservoir at an ex-
pense of $10,000 which when completed
will furnish water for land already fenced
and for hundreds of acres of good quality
now lying idle just below the village, and

[column 2]
furnish desirable homes for hundreds of per-
sons wishing to become permanently settled;
we drove on five miles to Bishop Terry's
ranch where we were welcomed by Sister
M. A. Terry.
	The 17th we traveled thirty-five miles to
Panacca in Lincoln Co., Nevada, the
Bishop was absent from home but we were
made welcome by Sister Lee, within her
beautiful home.
	At 10 a. m. of the 18th, we met with the
children,Sister Melissa Lee, who has been a 
faithful worker was compelled through sick-
ness and a press of othea duties, to resign 
her position as President of the Primary
Association of this place, and Mrs. Mary
Wrench was chosen President with Melissa
Lee and Christy Turnbow, Counselors;
here as all the settlements can boast were 
a fine lot of healthy children.
	At 2 p. m. we met with the Relief Society
which is presided over by Mrs. Elizabeth
Wadsworth; the spirit of the Lord was en-
joyed by the people and all felt to rejoice in
the great Latter-day work.
	On the 19th we commenced our return
journey remaining the first night with 
Sister Terry on their ranch; on the 20th,
we continued our journey to Brother James
Holt's, located about three miles below
Hamblin, in the Meadow, Canyon, there
are but few people here, but as they were 
being visited by relatives from a distance
we decided to hold meeting with them;
which we did and all rejoiced at the oppor-
tunity that had been afforded them; when 
they bade adieu with a pressing invitation
to us to come again.
	We dined at Brother Camfields, at
the Meadows, in the absence of Sister Cam-
field we were kindly entertained by her
daughter Clara; in the afternoon at 2 p. m.
we had an interesting meeting at Pinto with 
the Primary Association; in the evening
we drove to Grass Valley where I had the
privilege of spending the night with my 
sister, Leonora C. Gardner; the 21st being
Sunday we met with the Sunday School;
the exercises rendered reflect great credit
on all concerned.  At 2 p. m. we had a
meeting with the Primary Association a 
good spirit was enjoyed.
	We found a people in this peaceful little 
valley, who are fully awake to the necessity
of educating their children, and they move
into larger settlements in the winter where
the children can attend school.
	In the summer they have a teacher and 
conduct a private school, having built a
nice school house where they are taught
music as well as other branches of educa-
tion, in all of which they show great pro-
ficiency. In the evening we drove to Pine
Valley and remained over night reaching
home on the 22nd, this ended a trip that re-
quired two hundred and fifty miles of travel
over a road that is anything but a pleasure
but is necessary in order to visit the settle-
ments named, which constitute a part of
this Stake,this country is sterile but the in-
dustry of the Saints have made it desirable.
We trust we have done some good in en-
couraging the Saints in their duties.  I
never saw a better spirit than was manifest
among them at the present time, they
watch the signs of the times and are satis-
fied with their observations.
	I remain your sister in the Gospel.
					ANN C. WOODBURY.


MARY EVANS, of Harlem, N. Y., is
licensed captain of a ship, of which her 
husband is chief engineer.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARIES.

	Died at Pine, Gila County Arizona, Aug. 8th,
1892, of typhoid fever, Lulu Fuller, daughter of
Wyllis D. and Annie Campkin Fuller; deceased
was born in Harrisburg, Washington County,
Utah, June 23, 1875, she leaves behind her a
father, four brothers, a sister and hosts of warm
friends: while we mourn for her, we know that
God has called her home for a wise and glorious
purpose.
	
The heavens are better than this earth below
They are of more account and far more dear,
We will look up, for all most sweet and fair
Most pure, most excellent, is garnered there.
						ELLEN C. FULLER.

Editor EXPONENT:
	Through the Alwise providence of God we
have been called to mourn the loss of two more
faithful sisters who belonged to our Society and
were loved and respected by all.  Their death
has cast a gloom over our otherwise peaceful
settlement and caused great distress in two
families.
	Sister Maria Sophia Andersen Holden, died
Sept. 2nd 1892, leaving a husband and seven
children.
	Sister Helen Gemmell Grewell, died Sept. 7th,
1892, leaving a husband and two children.
	The former was a teacher in our Society the
latter a member and also one of the Presidents in
our Primary Association.  Although we sadly
miss them we feel "our loss is their gain."
			LUCY E. JOHNSON, Pres. R. S.
			ADA EARL, Sec.
	COLONIA DIAZ, MEXICO, Sept. 20,1892.

	Sister Rebeka Rees, widow of Thomas Rees,
died at Thurber, Wayne Co., Utah, on the 9th of
Sept. 1892, of general debility,and old age. She was
born Jan. 1820, at Pembrokeshire, South Wales.
Forty-six years she was a member of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, living an
exemplary life, always on hand to assist with her
means, every call that was made, charitable to
the poor, always attending her meetings when
able.
	She was the mother of sixteen children three
sons and seven daughters survive, and over fifty
grandchildren and two great-grandchildren and
numerous friends will miss the kind face of
Grandma Rees.
	President Sarah G. Meeks and the sisters of the
Relief Society were united in their efforts in aid-
ing the bereaved daughter, Sister Thomas in pre-
paring the deceased for burial.  May God com-
fort the hearts of those that mourn, is the prayer
of your Sisters in the Gospel.
				SARAH G. MEEKS, Pres.
				BETSEY S. GOODWIN, Sec.
	Utah papers please copy.

Editor WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	It is with sad feelings that we announce the
death of our beloved sister and co-laborer, Phebe
Malinda Sevy, daughter of John L. and Caroline
F. Skein Butler.
	Deceased was born Dec. 16, 1837, in Caldwell
Co Mo.  She was baptized in 1846 by her father
and Dec. 5, 1854, was united in marriage to
George W. Sevy, in Spanish Fork.
	Sister Sevy, though not an aged woman, not
having filled up the allotted time, passed through
many trying scenes.  She was the mother of four-
teen children, seven of whom preceded her to the
grave.
	Her health had been poor for several weeks
and, on the 14th of August 1892, after two days
intense suffering with cholera morbus she quietly
passed away, surrounded by all her living chil-

[Column 2]
dren, except the eldest son, John L. who is now
on a mission in Tennessee.  One sister and many
friends were also present.  Two sisters arrived
just in time for the funeral.
	The occasion was made more solemn by the
death, a few hours later, of an infant grand-
daughter four months old which she was raising
for a deceased daughter.
	The funeral took place at 10 a. m., in the meet-
ing house, on the 16th inst.  The services were
conducted by Bishop Allen Miller.  The speakers
were M. M. Steele, Patriarch J. L. Heywood, and
Pres. Crosby.
	Sister Sevy, having been born at an early day
in the Church, remembered many of the trials in-
cident to those days.  She was one of the first
settlers in Southern Utah, and, in connection
with her husband, shared the trials and hardships
endured by those who settled that part of the
country.
	In fact, we can hardly think of anything in the
line of woman’s trials that she has not tasted, and
proven herself worthy.  She has been Counselor
in the Relief Society of this ward since its organi-
zation, twenty years ago.
	Was very charitable and was especially noted
for her hospitality.
	She leaves a husband (who is now in Mexico),
seven children, sixteen grandchildren, two
brothers, five sisters, and a host of friends to
mourn her loss.
			RHOANA HENRIE, President.
			MARY B. HEYWOOD, Counselor.
			ADELIA CROSBY, Cor. Sec.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Example is the school of mankind, and 
they will learn at no other.
	A house without a family worship has
neither foundation nor covering.—Mason.
	The great secret of success in life is to be
ready when your opportunity comes.—
Beaconsfield.


[column 1]
DOCTOR MATTIE HUGHES CANNON,
	Office: II South, First West Street.
Office practice for Diseases of Women from 2
	until 4 p. m.


[column 2]
	Dr. Maggie C. Shipp
Will commence her Winter Class in Obstetrics
and Nursing on Monday, October 24.
	Address: Dr. Shipp, 18 Main S
	Telephone 383-

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
	Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
	ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
	AND STATIONERY, EQUI- 
	POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, latest
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 63 E.	FIRST SOUTH STREET,
Three doors west of Theatre.

	MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p.m.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
	SALT LAKE CITY.
	The Leading Retail
	Cash House,
R. K. THOMAS

[Logo of Rio Grande Western Raillway]
THE
Standard Gauge
RAILWAY! 
..THROUGH THE. .
ROCKY MOUNTAINS!.
Choice of Three D stinct Routes,
AND THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT RAILROAD SCENERY
IN THE WORLD.
Two Fast Express Trains Daily
EACH WAY BETWEEN
OGDEN, SALT LAKE AND DENVER.
ELEGANT RECLINING CHAIR CARS!
Free of Charge
Direct Connections made in Union Depots.
THE MOST THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED RAILWAY
IN THE WEST
D. C. DODGE, A. E. WELBY, J. H. BENNETT,
Genl. Mgr. Sept. G. F. & P. A.

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFTand FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
 he country promptly responded to.
	AVD JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CIY,


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The touching tribute to an old friend
which was the last literary work of the be-
loved poet Whittier shows that the sweet
faith which produced “My Psalm” illum-
ined the closing days of his life. The wo-
man suffragists mourn the loss of one who
ever gave them the timely word of sympathy
and in sweet inspiration of his memory they
will be stronger for his life and work to
emulate his devotion to justice and to
human freedom.
	THE death of George William Curtis re-
moves one of the most lovable figures in
American literature and one of the most
patriotic of American citizens. His speech
at the memorable Chicago convention in
1860 which nominated Abraham Lincoln
struck the key note of his life. He said
the gentlemen of the convention must
have a care how they rejected the very
words of the Declaration of Independence
and faiied to enlist in the fight for the free-
dom of the territories, the sacred fire of the
cause of human liberty that had been the
inspiration of the Fathers of the Republic.
it was in this spirit that Mr. Curtis was a
life-long advocate of woman suffrage. Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
------
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
------
Vo. 21.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1, 1892.		No. 9.


THE SEGO LILY.
---
UTAH'S FLOWER.
---
What other flower so well could represent thee,
	Dear Utah, in high courts, where kings may 
		tread,
As the White Sego, which once kindly lent thee,
	For thy new guests, new hopes, when hope had
fled;
And like fat quails and precious manna sent thee,
	For famished souls, afforded meat and bread?

When strong men reeled from hunger, women
fainted,
	And little ones cried plaintively for food,
Came the dark Indian, with face bright painted,
	Pointing where Sego plants the hilltops
		strew'd;
And from that day the modest flower was
		sainted,
	Whose juicy bulb had famine's rage subdued.

And oft in sterile waste, all unattended, 
The Sego decks some lone, neglected tomb;
Many we find more elegant and splended,
	In rich attire, with luscious, sweet perfume;
But which hath man so generously befriended, 
Of all the flowers which o'er the Wasatch
		bloom?

O'er the Queen Rose we all may be ecstatic,
	Accord the Indian Paint Brush charming
		power;
Yet let not grateful memory prove erratic,
	Or grant to Marguerite her sister's dower;
Of hardihood and Faith most emblematic,
	We vote the Sego Lily Utah's Flower.
			L. LULA GREENE RICHARDS.
	October, 1892.


CONTENTS.
	Isabella of Castile.  In Rural England—A
Story.  By-Laws.  Trip to England.  S. L. Co.,
W. S. A. Social Reunion—E. J.  W. S. A. Re-
port.  Pacific Coast Woman’s Press Association
—The Journalist. The National Council of Wo-
men—Rachel Foster Avery.  National Council of
Women of the United States. Woman’s News—
Almy Priscilla Alden.  Notes and News.
Editorial:—Mass Meeting of Women.
Columbus Day.  Columbus Day in Chicago.
Death at the White House.  Editorial Note.
Poetry:—The Sego Lily—L. Lula Greene
Richards. Our Union—Lu Dalton.  What Will
the Future be?—Zina C. Walker.  The Robin’s
Nest—Ellen Jakeman.


OUR UNION.
---
COLUMBUS DAY.
---
Let this fair western land
As a safe refuge stand,
	Through all ages and time yet to come,
Where the poor and oppressed
May find safe, welcome rest
	And the place for a happy home.

CHORUS:
			Our Union!  Our Union? 
Land of our love!
			With her fair hills and dales,
			With her prairies and vales, 
And her starry flag floating above.


From the east and the west,
Come, ye  sad and oppressed,
	Plant your feet on our free, fertile soil,
Plow and sow, reap and mow,
Set your fruit trees a-row,
	And rejoice in the harvest of toil.

Here no kings shall oppress,
No harsh law give distress,
	Rich nor poor, great nor small, will we know,
Hand in hand, side by side,
We'll in friendship abide,
	Equal all, neither high nor low.

We have lakes deep and wide,
Rolling rivers besides,
	We have mountains and islands outspread,
We have sun, we have snow,
Glaciers high, meadows low,
	And the blue, smiling sky overhead.

While the earth's wide wings sweep,
While the ocean rolls deep,
	And the seasons their yearly course run,
Let this fair western land
As a safe refuge stand
	For the homeless whenever they come.
							LU DALTON.


[Column 1]
ISABELLA OF CASTILE.
---
	WHO is there among the patriotic women
of America whose heart does not bound
with enthusiasm at the name of Isabella of
Castile; and in whose breast is not kindled
a gleam of admiration for her character and
a desire to emulate her graces and her
virtues.  It seems to be a law of the great
controller of the events that govern the
destiny of nations, even of Him who saith
to the raging sea, "thus far shalt thou go
and no farther," it seems to be His will
that at certain stages of the world's history
certain individuals should be raised up to sit
in high places differing in many respects
from those that have preceded them and
particularly fitted to perform a certain work,
which in the providence of the Almighty
is then designed to be brought about be-
cause the set time has come when that
which has long been hidden from the
knowledge of the greater portion of the
human race is about to be made known for
the benefit of all generations.
	It was at such a period of time as this
that was born on the 22nd of April, 1451,
of John the Second of Castile and Isabella
of Portugal, Isabella of Castile, a name
destined to become famous throughout the
civilized world.
	Can we picture to ourselves the feeble in-
fant that first saw the light at Madrigal in
old Castile, Spain; born in the midst of a
people famed for their deeds of chivalry and
celebrated in song and story for their
cuirassed knights and their warriors whose
courage and warlike deeds were excelled by
none, yet who could in the moment of
victory show so much generosity to a fallen
foe that their known magnanimity and
valor had almost passed into a proverb.
This too was at a time and in a country
when the Church of the apostacy the great
Church of Rome held full supremacy and
its haughty and mitred Priests demanded

[Column 2]
obedience of kings and potentates declaring
themselves their superiors in power,
telling kings and governments that they
only held their crowns at the disposal and
the pleasure of the Pontiff of Rome and
unless they bowed and were subject to His
supreme authority they had the power to
absolve their subjects from their allegiance
and to put others in their places a power
claimed by Rome and exercised by them at
that time throughout the whole Christian
world.  When we reflect upon the sur-
roundings of Isabella during her childhood
and early youth we are led to admire the
strong individuality of character and inde-
pendence of spirit manifested by her
throughout her brilliant and exalted career.
	It is true that the Church of Piedmont
maintained its independence for centuries
but after years of noble but ineffectual
struggles were compelled to submit to the
power to which all seemed to bow.  In that
refuge of the oppressed behind the lofty
bulwarks of the mountains the Waldenses
claimed and maintained their right to
liberty and to worship God according to
their consciences prefering the hardships of
their lot to submission to the then prevailing
power.
	In the fifteenth century light began to
dawn upon the minds of men a spark that was
yet to be kindled into a flame that would
spread and burn throughout Christendom.
There had been Wycliffe in England boldly
asserting his right to disseminate the truth
contained in the Holy scriptures, and the
right of the people to read in their own
language,ready and willing to lay down his
life for the principles of truth in which he
believed; and it was by a decree of the
council of Constance, that more than forty
years after his death his bones were ex-
humed and after being publicly burned the
ashes were thrown into a neighboring brook;
but though the body may be burned and
the ashes strewn to the four winds vain are
the efforts of man to stop the progress of
truth, and the seeds sown by Wycliffe, were
growing and bearing fruit in the hearts of
many. The writings of Wycliffe had con-
verted a John who was stirring up the
minds of the people in Germany and a
Jerome of Payne who not only raised their
voices against the corruption and errors
then prevailing; but stood in chains before
Kings and Councils standing firm before the
assembled Dignitaries of the Church and
State; and willing rather than recant their
doctrines to accept the martyr's fate going
joyfully to their death.  This was but the
first faint glimmering of light preceding the
dawn of the reformation that was soon to
follow, and revolutionize the whole civilized
world, or like the distant whisper and mur-
mur that precedes the mighty roar of the
ocean that soon increases in strength and pow-
er and sweeps from before it every obstacle
presented to its onward progress; but none of
these innovations had yet found their way
to old Spain, and on the death of her father
the infant Isabella was taken by her wise
and widowed mother to the little town of
Arevalo where she was educated free from
the pernicious influences of a Court; here


she developed those graces of mind and
person, for which she was afterwards so
much distinguished for her strength of
character and sagacity as a ruler.
	It is to be regreted that we do not possess
more of the incidents of the early life of the
future Queen of Castile; we find her at the
early age of thirteen called from her peace-
ful retreat and the care of her wise mother
by her brother Henry the fourth to the
pomp, splendors and dangers of a Court.
But Isabella was a true woman and when
her brother from selfish motives of policy
sought to dispose of her at the age of six-
teen in a marriage both distasteful and un-
suitable to her, she bravely asserted her
right both as a woman and the future Queen
of a great country, not to be disposed of
without her own consent and that of the
nobles of the realm. King Henry gained
no friends by his arbitrary treatment of his
sister and when in other respects he ren-
dered himself unworthy the affection and
fealty of his subjects; and when the cities
of Seville and Andalusia had unfurled
their standards in the name of Isabella, and
she was entreated to accept the crown, her
affection and loyalty manifested itself in the
noble reply, “while my brother lives none
other has a right to the crown.” And it
was by her wisdom and assistance that he
was once more firmly established on the
throne of Castile, but Henry still opposed the
marriage of Isabella with Ferdinand of
Aragon a suitor prefered by herself and a
marriage suitable in every respect and per-
formed in the most romantic manner. This
marriage was highly acceptable to the
Castilian nobility both on account of the re-
striction put upon Ferdinand, and because
all the rights of Sovereignity were secured
to Isabella; but it was to Isabella herself,
her virtues, her executive ability, her in-
exhaustible resources of mind under all cir-
cumstances to which the homage of her
subjects were most due, and when on the
death of her brother, which event occurred
on the 11th of December 1474, Isabella was
proclaimed Queen of Castile there was re-
joicing throughout her realm. Isabella
now occupied the highest position which it
was possible for a woman to attain; not
only fulfilling all her duties as wife and
mother but maintaining her dignity as a
sovereign Ruler. As an impartial adminis-
trator of justice Isabella stands unrivaled;
in no case do we find her making a distinc-
tion between prince or peasant. Her charity
was unbounded and although desiring to
increase the glory and add to the conquests
of Spain, she was the first to try to alleviate
the horrors of war both by providing for
the comfort of the sick and wounded, she
herself superintending the erection of tents
for the suffering, but also in showing mercy
to the conquered; inspiring the hearts of the
soldiers with courage, and filling the hearts
of her people with love.
	But Isabella was destined to play another
part in the world’s history, one that would
crown her brow with a more enduring
wreath than the jeweled crown of Castile,
and would cause her name to be handed
down through all future generations as con-
nected with a discovery, the magnitude of
which is even now not fully comprehended.
[To be continued.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE college girls are taking a lively in-
terest in politics. It will be hard to keep
college women contented to be reckoned
politically with idiots.


[Column 1]
﻿IN RURAL ENGLAND.

				XXV.
	The preparations for the wedding of
Lady Anna Hilliard were very different
and much more elaborate than those of her
cousin's marriage had been,on a far grander
scale and indeed every detail connected
therewith seemed of so much consequence
that it was not only a nine days wonder
but all the people round about including
the servants as well as the masters and
mistresses scarcely talked of anything else.
All the old stories of the feud between Sir.
Edward and Lord Walton were reiterated
and amply enlarged upon and the love affair
in which Lady Walton had figured con-
spicuously was not left out of any conver-
sation upon the subject, and the young heir
Clairville Hilliard was served up with his
gipsy mother, and all the slanderous reports
that had been circulated at that period con-
cerning the doings at the Castle-
	Happily for Lady Anna these reports did
not reach her, she was so far removed from
the gossip of these newsmongers but Mrs.
Bland was not so fortunate and she became
quite weary of the repetition of these idle
tales and of disputing many of the slanders
that were brought to her in confidence by
meddlers and people who really wanted
"only to know the truth," according to
their own statement.  Mrs.  Bland knew
however that these gossipers were only
coming for more news to retail, but she
generally gave them a plain lesson upon
matters and sent them away with the im-
pression that, "it was none of their affair."
	Mrs. Bland's influence even in this res-
pect was salutary, and things quieted
down considerably,though Lord Walton did
not escape a quarrel or two with his friends,
(such they called themselves) about young
Walton's anticipated union with the daugh-
ter of Sir Edward who had made himself so
obnoxious in the vicinity, notwithstanding
"his title and possesions and his handsome
daughter," as they sneeringly alluded to
the marriage.
	Each time Lord Walton met with sneers
and ridicule he vented his spleen at home
and his wife and son both grew very tired
of his perpetual interference.  Sometimes
he was actually brutal and once or twice
struck his son, who threatened in turn to
be revenged upon the men who had enraged
his father if he could only ascertain who
they were.  Lady Walton though suffering,
keenly through it all, wore a smiling face
and sought to conciliate her husband by all
the means in her power.  Finally he declar-
ed on one occasion that he could not and
would not remain in England and suffer
such indignities, he would go over to the
continent, until the marriage ceremony was
over and the gossip had died out.  Lady
Walton did not remonstrate, for she felt
what a relief it would be to them all; he
was so annoyed at her seeming indifference
that he swore she should not be so much
her own mistress, he would stay at home
now, and spoil their pleasure; in fact the
man was to all appearances jealous of the
affection of his wife for her own son,
ridiculous as it may appear.  Things grew
worse daily between them, he could not
endure the sight of either of the Hilliards
and at last forbade their presence at the
Hall.
	Maitland was furious and all the efforts
of his mother were unavailing to quiet him;
in the quarrel between father and son the
whole story of the engagement between

[Column 2]
Sir Edward and his mother came out and
the boy's happiness was almost shattered,
but his mother besought him not to break
the heart of one so tender and loving as
Anna because of the bitter past, and his
better nature prevailed, and the young man
determined to be true to his manly instincts
and let the past alone.  Lord Walton had
allowed himself to give way to such violent
fits of anger, that like the man he affected
to despise his constitution was likely to
give way, and to prostrate himself or be-
come insane with pride and jealousy.
	Unknown to his wife he had been living
a very fast life and his money had been
drifting away from him rapidly, this preyed
upon his mind too,and he was attacked with
sudden illness which developed brain fever,
and just when the marriage was to have
taken place Lord Walton was lying helpless
and unconscious of his condition.  At times
he talked and raved of the past, and the
physicians in attendance not knowing the
cause of his sickness or that there was any
"method in his madness," wished his wife
to be constantly at his bedside, whereas
she knew through the old faithful nurse
who had been with them from the time of
her marriage, that he was always more
rational when she was absent.
	It was a trying time indeed for Lady
Walton, but she kept up bravely and one
looking on could not have guessed the sor-
row that had entered into her soul.  Some
weeks of watching and nursing and weary
waiting and a slight change for the better
gave them hope of recovery.  The invalid
restored once more to his senses inquired
about the contemplated union and learning
it had been delayed in consequence of his
serious illness, begged them to wait no
longer but let the ceremony be performed,and
as it seemed to be his positively expressed
wish—it was decided that the young people
should be married without further delay.
	As the ceremony was to be performed at
the Castle and all the festivities were to
take place there, it would not interefere
with Lord Walton who was not even able
to drive over in a carriage.  Rob Harrison
came from London to give away the bride,
and the Bishop was to officiate on this
grand occasion assisted by the young rector
who had married the Doctor and Jane Con-
way.  Quite a number of Maitland's rela-
tives were to be present, uncles, aunts and
cousins and most of Sir Edward's relatives,
thought they cared nothing for Anua, yet
the grandeur of the event was sufficient in
itself to bring them hundreds of miles to
witness the marriage and enjoy the cele-
bration and banquet.
	The housekeeper was very consequential
and resented the coming of those people who
had behaved so badly at the time of Sir
Edward's funeral.  She declared she would
not have them in the house, bnt after much
persuasion from both Clair and Lady Anna
she reluctantly consented to hold her peace.
Everything was on the most magnificent
scale for the time and place, and even Lady
Walton's fastidious tastes were gratified,
Mr. Harrison had assisted with both advice
and positive help; had sent from the great
metropolis many things rich and rare, and
such an abundance of choice flowers, that
with those the gardens there afforded, the
whole place was like Eden itself cr  a
fairy land, with bloom and fragrance.
	Anna's French maid and half a dozen
other seamstresses had prepared such a
trousseau, as the country families thereabouts
had never before seen, and there seemed


nothing wanting to make the affair perfect
in every detail except the presence of the
father in law elect. The bride and bride-
groom were to leave the morning after the
wedding for the continent, and on returning
to spend the winter in London. This was
Lady Anna’s idea of happiness, and Uncle
Rob or any one else had not objected, as it
was somehow instrinctively felt, that the
postponement was unpropitious and that it
was not likely to turn out happily in the
end.
	At last the long-looked for day came; it
was in chilly November and the fields were
bare and bleak and a terrific wind the even-
ing previous had shook the rickety old
castle and whistled and shrieked around it,
and the great elm trees creaked and groaned
and one or two not far from the house snap-
ped asunder. Lady Anna would have giv-
en way to dismal forebodings had her Un-
cle Rob not been with her to cheer her de-
presed spirits. Clair who was usually light-
hearted could scarcely be pacified and after
his sister had retired for the night, sat long
with Mr. Harrison telling him of the pre-
monitions he felt, and of what the servants
had been talking of ever since the postpone-
ment of the marriage.
	When he ventured to express to Mr. H.
his impression that some great event either
good or bad was about to transpire which
concerned the house and the family, then
Mr. H. replied in confidence, “probably we
are all going to leave England, at least I am
sure that I shall before very long, and you
would perhaps like to accompany me to the
far East, as it will be very dull here and
the estate can easily be let to some compe-
tent person: the lodge keeper who has been
so long in your father’s employ will look
after your interests, and you ought to see a
little of the world and know more of men
and business, now’s your time, before mar-
riage.”
	Clair was over-joyed though he would
have preferred his own dear native land to
the far East, yet he was too undemonstra-
tive even to make such a suggestion and re-
plied, to “Uncle Rob,” as he too sometimes
called him,that as soon as the fuss and flurry
of his sister’s wedding was over he would
put everything in proper shape with the
help of his lawyers and join him at his
lodgings in London.
	It was just what Rob Harrison liked
though it had not been premeditated, and
he felt too that it would be quite beneficial
to the young Baronet. It was near morn-
ing ere the two retired and the night was
dark and fierce gusts of wind were sweep-
ing over the country. No one slept much
in that old place for it seemed more than
ever forlorn, though the house was filled
with guests, who had been arriving for the
last two or three days.
	At the first grey streaks of dawn Lady
Anna rose and called her maid, feeling she
must speak to some one, and of all her rela-
tives there was not a single person among
them to whom she could speak of the things
that lay near her heart.
	“And so I am to leave my old home to-
day never to return as its mistress, Marie?”
	“And aren’t you glad my Lady that you
are going to get a fine handsome man, rich
and stylish, who adores you with all his
soul, surely that ought to satisfy any young
lady.”
	“You do not understand me girl, no one
ever does, not even my cousin Mrs. Bland,
though she knows me best of all the world,
but I have feelings I cannot explain,doubts
[Column 2]
and perplexities, I dare say they were born
with me, I recollect my old nurse Raynor
used to say, I had too much sentiment, and
it cropped out at the wrong time: this cer-
tainly is an inopportune time to be moody—
let us get every thing ready; nine o’clock
comes soon these dark mornings, my cousin
who is an early riser will be coming over
here and she shall not find me sad or droop-
ing on my wedding day.”
	Marie thus addressed began to get out the
finery—the beautiful morning gown was
donned in haste and the maid rang for Lady
Anna’s tea to be brought up stairs, for she
had declared to the housekeeper she would
not breakfast with all those people whom
she had so seldom seen, if they were the
nearest relatives. So Clair was left to keep
them in countenance and maintain the dig-
nity of the establishment, with the ever
helpful Uncle Rob, while Anna sipped her
tea, and dallied with her toast and muffins
scarcely swallowing a mouthful.
	As the great clock of the Castle struck
eight Mrs. Bland was ushered in and in-
formed her cousin that Maitland with his
retinue had arrived, and with the air of one
who brings good news, she added, “I have
heard it is always a good omen when the
bridegroom comes early.” Just these few
words raised Anna’s spirits and she began
to talk cheerfully almost gaily, as the maid
displayed her finery one piece after another;
the veil was the most delicate lace, the gift
of Uncle Rob, and the dress was the most
exquisite India Silk profusely trimmed with
Venetian lace and pearls. Her luxuriant
golden hair was loosely knotted with pearls
and crowned her like an aureole. Never
was a bride more fittingly arrayed and as
her cousin gazed upon her beautiful face
and kissed her again and again before they
left her boudoir she could not forbear say-
ing, “Was ever a bride so charming?”
And under her breath she said, “and neither
father or mother to bid her God speed or
bestow a blessing.” Anna caught the
meaning and for a moment both shed tears
of loneliness though not of repining, and
then the cheery manly voice of Uncle Rob
called to them to come down; in the great
oak drawing room Doctor Bland and Clair,
Burke and Hemenway,the Bishop and Rec-
tor were waiting, the other guests were in
the ante-rooms and waited the summons,
Maitland and his mother joined Lady Anna
her cousin and Uncle Rob in the library,
where the formal greetings were given and
received, and then Anna leaning upon
Uncle Rob’s arm and almost fainting with
extreme nervousness stepped forward into
the grand archway (that had been purposely
arranged, and beautifully wreathed with the
fairest flowers) where waited young Wal-
ton his heart beating high with a conscious
pride of the fulfillment of his fondest hopes.
Whispers of approval ran through the as-
sembled company and soon the words were
pronounced that made Lady Anna Hilliard
and Maitland Walton husband and wife.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


FOR THE EXPONENT:
	WHAT WILL THE FUTURE BE?

	’Tis true you say you love me well,
	As far as thoughts and words will tell;
	But searching far into your eyes.
	Deep in my heart, these words arise,;
	When years fly on, and skies of blue
	Fade into grey, will you be true?
	When youth and beauty fade away,
		Will you be truest such a day?


Ah yes, when life is waning fast,
And charms of youth are in the past;
Will you then say with soul and heart,
You've filled a high and noble part
Through time and sorrow, good and ill,
And find love links us closer still;
Hearts ever true, love, hearts exer true,
Loving me, even, as I'd love you?
	ZINA C. WALKER.


THE ROBIN’S NEST.

Though many a tree stood tall and green,
	Where any bird might joy to rest.
The one that Willie called his own
	The robins chose to build their nest.
Locked in his breast the secret lay.
	He joyed to call them all his own.
And often left his mates at play
	To see how much the nest had grown.
He scattered crumbs around the place,
	Such things as they in building used.
They grew familiar with his face,
	Nor found their confidence abused.
All day the glad thrill in his heart
	Made task and toil less hard to bear,
He often dreamed of them at night,
	And waking found the world more fair.
One day from overhanging bough,
	While dangled in mid air his legs.
Within the soft lined hollow sphere,
	He found four dainty speckled eggs.e
But duty called him far away,
	And days and hours and weeks went passed
’Ere come that glad and happy day—
	He homeward turned his steps at last.
He sought his tree. No chattering bird
	Made music in the checkered light,
His very soul the silence heard.
	He climbed the tree with sudden fright.
The empty nest among the leaves
	Still stood in airy lines of grace,
But birds and eggs and hopes were gone
The bitter tears streamed down his face.
He never knew what foe to joy,
	Had slain his birds. but in those tears
He knew the pangs—poor sorrowing boy—
	That is the cross of riper years.
How many, in the flush of spring
	Have heaped with hopes the glowing, breast,
That found when autumn winds had blown
	Within their hearts an empty nest.
ELLEN JAKEMAN.


THE Woman Suffrage Association of Salt
Lake County intend holding an Annual
Convention on Tuesday November 15, 1892,
at the Thirteenth Ward Assembly Rooms
at 2 o’clock p. m. All who are interested
in the political education of women are in-
vited to attend.
	ELIZABETH HOWARD.


Mrs. President Dwight, of Yale College,
originated the idea of a “Yale Home” for
students who may need medical care or
nursing. Mrs. Dwight, with the assistance
of many ladies of New York, among them
Mrs. William C. Whitney, obtained funds
for the erection of the building last spring,
and it has been completed during the sum-
mer. There every student who is ill can
be under the care of a matron and physician
and receive all the attention which could be
given him at his home.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office. No. 25 E., South Temple Street,
second gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to

	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	NOVEMBER 1, 1892.


MASS MEETING OF WOMEN.

   THE Salt Lake County World’s Fair As-
sociation of women will hold a mass
meeting in the Theatre in this City
Nov. 3, at which time it is hoped there
will be women from all parts of the county,
and that a great interest will be aroused in
regard to the exhibit to be made, at the
Columbian Exposition in 1893. Every wo-
man should make an effort to do something
in this direction that Utah may not be be-
hind any other state of equal size and popu-
lation. There will be a number of short
speeches made by able speakers, most of
them young women. It is a cause in which
the public are interested and there should
be an enthusiastic audience. A programme
will be published in the daily papers.


COLUMBUS DAY.

	EARLY in the morning of the 21st of
October the school children of this City as-
sembled in the various districts to march in
procession and later on the streets were
filled with them and crowds of people gath-
ered to see the exercises and certainly lt was
a beautiful sight. Bands of music were in
attendance, flags and banners gaily floating
in the breeze, the day was fine and all things
propitious. Perfect order was kept and
about eight thousand children marched two
and two to the large Tabernacle where they
were seated and the programme as arranged
was carried out. Presidents Wilford Wood-
ruff, Geo. Q. Cannon and other prominent
men were among the spectators occupying
a position near the choir.
	Prof. Malone of the High School read
the President’s proclamation for the day to
be observed as a holiday, and Miss Alice
Rowe by request read Gov. Thomas’s proc-
lamation for this Territory.
	The ceremony of raising the flag was per-
formed by the veterans of the G. A. R. the
flag was just in front of the organ, and
afterwards remained suspended, the Taber-
nacle juvenile choir band struck the air
“America” and as the flag reached the top
of the staff the rolling drum was heard and
the veterans led the assemblage in three
cheers for old glory.
	The Hurrahs were inspiring from so
many childish voices. After singing of

[Column 2]
America by the children the Rev. Dr. Utter
offered prayer and then a song for Columbus
Day composed for the occasion was sung,
the effect of the music by such a multitude
was exceedingly grand.
	Other exercises of a most interesting and
intellectual character followed, all calculated
to make a deep impression upon the minds
and hearts of the children.
	Similar exercises were held in the Latter-
day Saints College, the Utah University 
and in the various schools in all parts of the
Territory.
	In the afternoon a grand concert was
given in the Tabernacle also in the evening,
at which time fully a thousand voices,
joined in the choruses and anthems etc.,
under the leadership of the famous
musicians Professors Evan Stephens, Thos.
Radcliffe, and H. E. Giles, who deserve
the highest encomiums of praise for the
grand success achieved.
	Chief Justice Zane delivered an eloquent
address and Bishop O. F. Whitney read an
historical poem on Columbus of his own
composition, which was received with
hearty applause and created considerable
enthusiasm. The poem as a whole was a
beautiful tribute to the memory of the great
discoverer and also to our own Washington,
and contains many superb passages, rich
with thought and exquisite in feeling and
altogether telling in sentiment. The
language sublime and the construction quite
in keeping with the glorious theme. We
intend publishing it in full in our next
issue; and consider it worthy a place in the
History of Utah. The singing was excel-
lent and one should mention many of the
performers specially, but our space is so lim-
ited we can only mention Miss Lillian
Roberts, of Provo who charmed the audi-
ence with her sweet voice and Mrs. Anne
Colburn Plummer who both gave rich se-
lections and were vociferously applauded.
The musical merit of the cencert is unques-
tionably excellent.


[column 1]
COLUMBUS DAY IN CHICAGO.
---
	THE commencement of the dedicatory
ceremonies of the Columbian Exposition be-
gan in Chicago on the 19th of October with
the formal inaugural reception to the guests
of honor.
	It would be utterly futile to attempt a
description of the magnificence of the prepa-
rations and paraphernalia though only cul-
ling from dispatches, so we shall only say,
there was a great procession of official digni-
taries, and distinguished guests foreign and
native born, and the decorations included
carloads of flowers and smilax, and besides
the stars and stripes,the colors of Spain and
Italy and the flags and banners of all
nations.
	After famous selections rendered by the
grand orchestra a grand march was led by
the military officers into which the moving
throng merged, and floating into a quad-
rille, the blaze and dazzle of the insignia
and glitter of the costumes and the rhythmic
motion of the dancers must have been a liv-

[column 2]
ing poem set to such thrilling music as the
world has seldom if ever seen.
	The description of the dresses worn by
the ladies is something appaling, and we
therefore leave such matters to society
writers, and content ourselves with men-
tioning only the two national lady commis-
sioners from Utah; Mrs. Margaret Blaine
Salisbury wore a dress of white faille
Francaise embroidered in silver with orna-
ments of diamonds and pearls, Mrs.
Whalen's gown was a canary colored crepe
trimmed in brocade orange ribbons with or-
naments of diamonds.
	Dispatches of the 20th, October say,
"Last night society set the glittering seal of
her approval upon the World's Fair."  The
ceremonies have been as successful and even
more so than had been anticipated since the
first notice of the outbreak of cholera
abroad.  The feasting and dancing and
such like festivities as also the toasting and
speech-making have all been of the highest
order possible.  The one great drawback to
the enjoyment of the occasion has been the
absence of the Chief Executive of the nation
and the lamentable cause, viz. the serious
illness of his wife, by whose bedside he is
tenderly watching, while these great events
in which both were expected to take the
most prominent part are being celebrated.
	Ex-President Cleveland out of courtesy
and respect and with a laudable appreacia-
tion of the position of President Harrison
voluntarily absents himself from the scenes
of attraction in which he also was expected
to play an active part.
	The dedicatory oration by Hon. Henry
Watterson was an eloquent effort though
hastily prepared, we quote one of the open-
ing paragraphs.
	"We are met this day to honor the mem-
ory of Christopher Columbus, to celebrate
the four hundreth annual return of the year
of his transcendant achievement and with
fitting riches to dedicate to America and the
universe  the concrete exposition of the
world's progress between 1492 and 1892."
	In his closing remarks he alluded to the
display made by the children of the schools
all over the land in these beautiful words:
	"These, indeed, are our crown jewels, 
the truest though inevitable offspring of our
civilization and development; representa-
tives of a manhood vitalized and invigorated
by toil and care; of womanhood elevated
and inspired by liberty and education.  God
bless the children and their mothers.  God
bless our contry's flag, and God be with
us now and ever.  God in our roof-trees
shaded and God on the highway; God in
the winds and waves and God in all our
hearts."
	Mrs. Potter Palmer delivered an address
on the "Work of the Board of Lady
Managers," and made a grand showing and
also offered congratulations and greetings to
the women of all lands.
	Mrs. Henroitin gave a salutation in honor
of Queen Isabella which was highly ap-
plauded.
	There were several speeches by dis-
tinguished, well-known orators and choruses
and anthems and orations, and the cere-
monies closed with a most brilliant and
wonderful display of fireworks, represent-
ing the greatest events and also places etc.
In the evening the Auditorium was the
scene of a Columbian Congress, purely in-
tellectual in which women participated.


George Wm. Curtis by his will left all
his property absolutely to his wife.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DEATH AT THE WHITE HOUSE.
---
	Mrs. Caroline Scott Harrison, wife of the
Chief Executive of the nation, President
Benjamin Harrison, died at the White
House in Washington, D. C., on Tuesday
morning Oct. 25, 1892, at 1:40, of con-
sumption from which she had been suffer-
ing for some considerable time though little
was known of the disease that threatened
her life until a few months since.  Strong
hopes were entertained of her recovery un-
til a short time ago, and recently the Presi-
dent has absented himself from all public
places and remained constantly by her bed-
side.  The family are grief-stricken at the
great loss they have sustained in her de-
mise.
	There were present at the moments of
her departure, President Harrison, Mr. and
Mrs. Mc'Kee, Mr. and Mrs. Russell Harri-
son, Lieut. and Mrs. Parker, Mrs. Dimmick 
and Mrs. Newcomer,all the family except the
three grand children.
	Mrs. Harrison was so tenderly beloved
that the parting must have been inexpress-
ibly touching.
	Ever since Mrs. Harrison's entrance at
the White House, she has given an air of
the most graceful superiority to all its ar-
rangements and entertainments; socially
she is said to have been very charming and
in her homelife intensely gentle and moth-
erly.
	Mrs. Harrison was born in Oxford, Ohio,
and was the daughter of Dr. John Wither-
spoon Scott and Mary Scott.
	Mr. and Mrs. Harrison fell in love with
each other while the young lady was at
school.  Mrs. Harrison was elected the 
First President General of the organization
known as the Daughters of the Revolution,
in 1890, and was re-elected in 1892. It 
seems almost remarkable that through so
many terms of the office of President, Mrs.
Harrison is the second mistress of the White
House, who has died at the Presidential
mansion.  Her demise will cast a shadow
over that beautiful and charming place for 
a time at least, and the rejoicings at the
coming election will scarce be the same
after such a sad occurence, as the death of
one so near the heart of the nation.


EDITORIAL NOTE.
	THE news of Columbus Day celebration
here and in Chicago, and the sad death at 
the White House in Washington crowd our
local pages, and hinder our giving room for
the Relief Society Conference, Obituary
notices and other matter we have on hand,
therefore these articles must be delayed.


BY LAWS.
OF THE
SALT LAKE COUNTY WORLD'S FAIR ASSO-
CIATION.
	ARTICLE I.--Name.
	THIS Association shall be known as the
Salt Lake County World's Fair Association.
	ARTICLE II.–Object.
	The object of this Association shall be to
collect an exhibit of the industries and in-
terests of the women of this County, for 
the exposition in 1893; and to authorize and
encourage the organization of auxiliary as-
sociations to be known as "World Fair
Clubs," in each town throughout this


County under such rules and local manage-
ment as may be deemed best.
ARTICLE III.—Officers and Executive
Board.
	A Board of Directors shall be chosen by
the President, consisting of twenty-five
members; from which number shall be ap-
pointed by the President, two Vice-Presi-
dents, a Secretary, Assistant Secretary,
Treasurer and an Executive Board con-
sisting of five members.

ARTICLE IV.—Membership.
Any woman residing in Salt Lake County,
may become a member of this Association
by paying a membership fee of one dollar
and signing the by-laws. The member-
ship fee, and all other moneys raised by
whatever means shall be used for the ex-
penses of the Association, at the direction
of the Executive Board.

ARTICLE V.—Meetings.
Meetings shall be held every Thursday
at three p.m. A quorum shall consist of
eleven members.

ARTICLE VI.—Reports.
The Secretary shall forward to the Secre-
tary of the Territorial Board on or about
the 30th of each month, a report showing
the work done during the preceding month.
Questions requiring immediate attention,
however, shall be at once forwarded to the
Territorial Board.
ARTICLE VII.—Amendments.
These by-laws may be amended at any
regular meeting of the Association by a
two-thirds majority vote of the members
present; notice having been given at a pre-
vious meeting.


A TRIP TO ENGLAND.

	WE who were born, and have been reared
in these Western Wilds, hemmed in on all
sides, as we are, by majestic towering peaks,
naturally fell an inquisitiveness, an unsati-
able desire to get beyond this grand fortress 
and take in with a glance of our eye a great-
er extent of the earth's surface. We may
gaze in awe and admiration at the mighty 
rugged bulwarks that surround us, and
never grow weary of viewing the varied
aspect of these snow-capped mountains;
drinking in the artistic beauty of the fresh
green verdure of early spring, the richness
of autumnal coloring or when clad in their
dazzling robe of spotless ermine.
	We may view with pride and pleasure
these spacions valleys with their bounteous
harvest fields, their shady groves and pleas-
ant glens, their sparkling lakes and streams;
and our hearts may overflow with love and
gratitude for our peaceful habitations and
the dear ones abiding therein. Yet, not-
withstanding these circumstances, our
minds reach out beyond these barriers
and in fancy we treasure the long stretch of 
plains which intervene 'twixt us, and those
centres of civilization where congregate the
multitudes of men; and where we may view
the great busy world as it is. 
	Yes, perchance our desires may transcend
the borders of the great waters; and we 
may long to visit in reality, as we oft have 
done in fancy, the dear old mother country;
hallowed by oft-told tales of the parental 
homestead, and of scenes made sacred by
sweet memories of yore. At least these
were the feelings which fostered my desires
long, long, ere I ventured on my pleasant 
trip to the farther shore.

[Column 2]
	But O, the wondrous melancholy in the
words "fare well." Especially when realiz-
ing that we are about to place between our-
selves and all who are near and dear, thous-
ands of miles of land and sea. We are
burdened with the ills that may befall
them, ere we meet again, oppressed by the 
dangers that lie thick on every hand.
	The parting words are spoken, the famili-
er forms recede from our lingering gaze, 
and we are rapidly borne away from those
we hold most dear. We now begin to
wonder how we could have made such a 
mistake as to imagine that a trip to Europe
could possibly be a pleasure.
	These feelings are however of but short
duration, as we are lured from the melan-
choly contemplation, by the jollity of our
traveling companions and the ever changing
aspect of the scenes through which we are 
passing. They were all new and strange,
yet, most interesting to me. Yes, even the 
drear and uninhabited plains possessed an 
attraction; for they brought to my mind,
the many weary pilgrimages which have
been taken across their burning sands. I 
thought of the heroic pioneers, the brave
hand cart companions; and the many tedious
ox-team expeditions which had traversed
them.
	Again Fort Laramie, Council Bluffs, the 
Platte and Missouri rivers, the "Father of 
Waters" and the state of Illinois, each in 
its turn, brought to my remembrance,
tragic scenes and memorable incidents in the 
history of my people.
	Just before reaching Chicago, one of our 
passengers, a lady who had occupied the 
opposite seat to me ever since leaving Og-
den, took advantage of the vacant seat by
my side, and excusing herself for address-
ing a stranger, said she had been led by
our conversation, to surmise that we were
Mormons, was I really a Mormon? When 
I answered in the affirmative, she was yet
not wholly convinced, and asked if I really
meant it, of course I told her that I really 
did; when she began to question me in the
following manner. "Do you believe in 
polygamy?  Have all the men in Utah
from six to ten wives? Dare a woman 
there, refuse to marry a man if he wishes 
her to do so? Are all Mormon women 
forced to marry whether they wish to or
not? Are Mormon men good to their 
wives? etc, I spent some little time in ex-
plaining matters to her and in elucidating
the mysterious conditions of society sup-
posed to exist amid the valleys of the
Rockies.
	She expressed herself as being much
pleased and thanking me said she should
henceforth have a very different idea of the
Mormons. Wished to know if the young 
men who had been sitting with me were 
Mormons also, and thought they were very 
jolly, and fine specimens of the race. I
was highly amused and little dreamed of
the many similar amusing incidents I
should experience ere my return.
	Farther on our journey, when flying
through the beautiful woods of the "Em-
pire State," imagination claimed me for her
own; and I saw amid that newly budding 
forest, a youth devoutly kneeling;—pouring
forth his earnest supplications to the God of
heaven;—pleading for light and understand-
ing yea, for wisdom without stint;—which
the "Good Book" promises shall be given, 
to him that asketh, believing he shall re-
ceive. I note the heavens grow brighter at
the boy's continued praying, and two per-
sonages whose glory the noon day sun doth
dim, descend from their bright dwelling,—


stand they now before the pleader; And one
pointing to the other sayeth, "My beloved
Son, hear Him." In the same region my
mind travels far back to the centuries that
are long gone by. And imagination
pictures the vast congregating of two
great armies; numerous descendants of two
brothers;—now gathering their most power-
ful force for the terrible and final conflict,
which subsequently blotted out from this 
land of promise, two great and powerful
nations. I see Moroni, as sole survivor of
his people, standing midst the great and 
appalling desolation of that dreadful battle-
field.
	He contemplates with bleeding heart, the
marvelous disaster; and ponders over the
 causes which have brought it about.
	I see him deposit a treasure; the re-
cords of these Nations in yonder Mount,
the hill "Cumorah;" so that these tribes or
people, who may, in the time to come, in-
habit this land, may learn of the lives of
these aborigines, and take timely warning
from their destruction.
	And now Moroni is no more. He has
gone the way of all flesh. And centuries
dark and drear pass by. But anon, in
yon glorified and immortal messengers
which flies through the midst of heaven,
behold, the prophet of the Ancient
Nephites. He is earthward bound, and 
wends his way towards the depository of
his long concealed legacy- The time has
fully come. The mandate has been issued,
to release it from its hiding place and send
it to the inhabitants of the earth.
	I note with satisfaction that he entrusts
it, with its mission, to the future prospects,
of the appointed youth, who was praying in
the woods.
	But we must now leave this favored lad
with the sacred record, to their eventful
career, for we have been moving rapidly
onward, and soon find ourselves whirled in-
to the busy metropolis of this great Mod-
ern Nation, which is as unconscious and
unmindful of the bleached bones of that 
highly favored, but alas,now extinct nation, 
as is a newly born babe of the sins of the 
world. 
	And now adieu to serious reflections; to
mental meanderings mid the scenes of yore.
The present demands our undivided atten-
tion, and it is soon monopolized by the
sights that are presented to the natural eye.
	New York, with its scores of crowded
streets, its high and imposing buildings,
its elevated railroads and numerous ferry
boats; its suspension bridge and its many 
rivers, its "Statue of Liberty" and its
great ships to say nothing of the ever 
surging flood of industrious humanity,
which without a lull throngs its busy
thoroughfares, all, all afforded interest,
and were a source of wonder to one so
lately released from the rurality of the
Rocky Mountains.
	My traveling companion was an excellent
guide, especially for one who was as much
a stranger in the place, as were the rest of
us; but he always made a bee line for the 
nearest "Cop" of whom he inquired the
way, and then lost no valuable time in 
finding the place. In this manner we were
guided up through Broadway to the base
or beginning of the Brooklyn Bridge. And
after a rather extended pull, we succeeded
in reaching the huge pillar, column, or pile 
which ever it may be called, from which 
the suspension really begins.
[To be continued.]


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


S. L. CO. W. S. A
---
	The regular monthly meeting of the Salt
Lake Co. W. S. A was held in the 13th,
Ward Assembly Rooms on Tuesday Sep.
20th, 1892, Pres’t. E. Howard presiding.
Opened by singing “Oh Come Come Away”
prayer by E. M. Price. Singing, “Hark
the Sound” etc.
	Minutes of the previous meeting read,
discussed and amended. Some instructive
remarks were made by Pres’t. E. Howard,
Ter. Vice Prest. Emily S. Richards, E. M.
Price and Margaret A. Caine, after which
the program was rendered as follows:
Elizabeth Me. Farlane on the charter con-
ferred upon Salt Lake City from the year
1860, to 1872. E. M. Price had found
what powers, (the Charter) had conferred
upon one half of the inhabitants of Salt
Lake City, and defined the duties and pow-
ers of City officers.
	Prest. Howard read a list of questions to
be answered at the convention in this City
in Oct. E. S. Richards read notice of con-
vention, also list of subjects upon which
information was wanted for the “World’s
Fair” which subjects were discussed by the
ladies present. Miss Maude Pratt again
delighted the association with her lovely
voice, accompanying herself on the organ,
after which the meeting stood adjourned for
one month, at the same time and place.
				C.C. R. WELLS Sec.


SOCIAL REUNION.
---
	A SOCIAL reunion was held on Sept.4,1892,
at the Fourth Ward meeting house,Provo,by
the Relief Society of that ward, for the pur-
pose of sealing up their Jubilee Box; which
it is designed will be opened by the mem-
bers of this Association twenty-five years
hence.
	Singing from L. D. S. Hymn Book.
Opening prayer by Sarah E. Cluff. The
President, Sister Watson, made the opening
remarks, announced the object of the meet-
ing, and greeted all present.
	The papers, principally historical in char-
acter, that were read and deposited in the
box were as follows:
	Minutes of the first primaiy meeting,
together with the organization, was read by
Sister Jane B. Snyder, present President.
Also minutes of the last meeting, together
with a sketch of its progressive steps,
and the sentiments and blessings to those
to whom the paper was addressed. This
association also deposited in the box a bound
vol., Junvenile Instructor No. 26, and the
three children of Sister Sarah E. Cluff,
vol., 25, same publication, a gift to the
Primary Association at the time of opening
the box.
	Sarah E. Cluff read a paper on the first
organization of the Relief Society of that
ward, which occurred on May 1st, 1868.
Gave the names of the officers, and those
who made the organization. All important
changes were noted, and closing remarks
breathed a spirit of love and harmony.
	General address written by Delia Ina
Booth, and addressed to those who should
open the box was read.
	Bishop John E. Booth addressed the as-
sembly, expressed his pleasure in and ap-
proval of what the sisters were doing. Did
not anticipate being present when the box
was opened, but could readily perceive that
it would be an hour of exquisite joy and
sorrow. Was sorry that there were  ecclesi-
astical organizations in the ward as well as


individuals who were not represented, and
fancied that some who came to see the box
opened would turn sadly away and feel that
they had been forgotten or neglected.
Wished to see all the members of the wa
drawn close together, and be one in heart.
	He was followed by Brother Andrew
Watson (Counselor) Sister Mary John,
President of all the branches of the Relief
Society of Utah Stake, Anna K. Smoot
President of the Primary Association, Emily
G. Cluff, Counselor to Sister John, and
Mary and Agnes Farr, and others.
	There was also a history of the ward by
Bishop John E. Booth; pictures of the offic-
ers of nearly all the Church organizations,
books, letters, mementoes etc., deposited in
the box. The dedicatory prayer was offer-
ed by Bishop Booth,and the honor of finally
closing up the box was delegated to Brother
William Harrison.
	In the evening a fruit festival was given,
which was well patronized, and a thorough
success.
							E. J.


W. S. A. REPORT.

	On September 28, 1892, the Woman Suf-
frage Association of Ogden City met in the
Educational Institute of the Fifth Ward.
	Mrs. E. Y. Stanford presiding at the re-
quest of President Brown whose health did
not admit of her being present. Sarah
Richards offered an appropriate opening
prayer, Ella Smith Winters read an essay,
her own composition from a back number
of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT entitled “Wo-
man’s mind equal to man’s.”
	Mary Cole next entertained the ladies
with the “Song that reached my heart.”
This young lady is one of the sweet singers
on the Weber and her effort on this occasion
was enchanting, it “reached the heart of
all.”
	The Hon. Joseph Stanford was then in-
troduced as having been solicited by the
committee to lecture before the association.
	This gentlemen said it was well known
that he was in sympathy with, and an ad-
vocate of woman suffrage and he advised a
persistent, firm advocacy on the part of wo-
men for the right of franchise. It was woman’s
privilege to be elevated to the possession
and enjoyment of all that man aspired to
attain to in an intellectual and useful life.
There existed in woman’s nature and being
all the attributes, faculties and senses to be
found in man, why should they remain in
her dormant, uncultivated and undeveloped.
	It would add much to the sweetness of
man’s existence and the pleasures and in-
fluence of home to make her his companion
in the broader sense of the term. He be-
lieved that when the sexes come together
nearly on an equality in education, where
the woman’s mind had been trained and
informed on all subjects accessible to man
that she would make a better wife and
mother, than the untutored and unculti-
vated and consequently ignorant mother
could possibly do; posterity would also be
benefited by such equality for as features,
traits in character and physical defects are
in part transmitted to posterity, so are the
good parts and qualities of our being, and
what greater boon or legacy can parents
confer upon offspring than the benefits de-
rived from their mutually developed mental
and moral natures.
	The speaker made extensive references to
events in the past history of the world in
support of the theory of the ability of wo-


man to become the equal of man, also to
the experience and philosophy of the pro-
fessors of anatomy on the brain power of
both male and female.
	He advised a pacific policy towards the
male sex,so as not to antagonize their cause
with man by hostile speeches and addresses
because some men are opposed to Woman
Suffrage, many men did so oppose in all
sincerity and honesty, having a high regard
for woman and a wish to preserve her
especially from the crude, ungovernable
passions and unclean distasteful habits ex-
hibited by many men who engaged in
political and other pursuits common to pub-
lic life; such opponents at the present over-
look the fact that woman's presence would
cleanse and purify the ranks and elevate the
tastes and feelings above such practices.
	He remembered as good doctrine an
article in the Deseret News suggesting to
the ladies of these associations not to ally
themselves to either political party, they
had nothing to gain by so doing but on the
other hand, for reasons which the speaker
gave, they might prejudice their cause.
	A vote of thanks was tendered Mr. Stan-
ford for his able, instructive and entertain-
ing lecture.
	The subject of the World's Fair was then
taken up and considered and the ladies
present were urged to attend a meeting
called by the ladies committee of Weber
County to be held in the City Hall on
Saturday next.
	Vice President, Mrs. Hilliard suggested
that the committee on programme arrange
for a suitable recognition to be made in
reference to the 4th century anniversary of
the landing of Columbus, at our next meet-
ing.
	The event would be celebrated on the
21st of October throughout the whole of
America. Several new members were
added to the association. By the attend-
ance at this meeting, much the largest ever
held in Ogden, it was evident that an in-
creased interest is being awakened in the
rights of woman in this locality.
	Meeting adjourned for one month.
				LIZZE STANFORD, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
PACIFIC  COAST WOMEN’S PRESS
	ASSOCIATION. 
	The P. C. Women’s Press Club, of San
Francisco, has some very fine types of wo-
manhood in its enrollment.  As I dropped
into its annual convention, now being held
in that city, I scanned the faces with a good
deal of interest and listened with a good
deal more to the remarks that followed one
another in quick succession.
	The afternoon was devoted to a sym-
posium on the referred resolution of the N.
E. A., in May last, and was the subject of
much caustic wit,sound sense and a remark-
able variety of opinions.  The ladies were
limited to five-minute speeches, or papers,
and were generally within the limits.
The resolution, which was virtually laid on
the table by the visiting editors, was this,
offered by Miss Mary Allen West, Editor of
the Union Signal, and President of the Ill.
W. P. A. 
	Resolved. That we, as an Editorial As-
sociation, protest against the publication of
details of crime, reports of divorce courts,
and other demoralizing matter, and desire
to put ourselves on record as recognizing 
the truth that report of honorable deeds is

[column 2]
as much news as reports of crime, and more
worthy of record by the public press.
	This referred resolution was left by the
junketing editors to die a natural death.
The editors were going out that evening,
probably under police escort, to the China-
town slums, or some other equally interest-
ing and filthy city suburb; and, by the way,
what is the reason that the Eastern people
have such a ravenous appetite to see the
slums of San Francisco?  Do they return
the compliment by trotting out California
visitors to their Barbary Coasts?  They
crowd into the suffocating Chinese theatre
and endure smells enough to foster all the
microbes that may be floating about, and
make nests somewhere about their persons.
They tramp up and down alleys and by-
ways, and underground dens, with the
most persistent curiosity.  And then they
say, “Oh, my! how can you endure it?”
I believe they generally call the object of
their visits “scabs on the body politic,” or
some other equally euphonious name.
	We don’t endure it.  We don’t go to see,
hear, taste or smell it.  But this is a di-
gression.
	Alice Carey Waterman led off in a brisk,
pertinent, incisive paper on “Resolutions
as Levers,” said what she had to say, said
it well, covered her points, drove them in
and sat down within the time limit.  Then
the resolution of Miss West was stood up
to be snowballed, and the way those wo-
men went at it, giving a dig now and then
in a sly aside at the National Editorial As-
sociation, was a revelation.  The Press as
an Educator—What constitutes News in a
Weekly Paper—News or Gossip?—Theory
and Practice—Limitations of a Country
Editor—The Survival of the Fittest—News
from the Editor’s Standpoint—Ditto from
the Reader’s Standpoint—Reporter, Fashion
Editor, Story Writer, Dramatic Critic, etc.,
etc.—all that goes to make up a paper.
Every spoke in its wheel revolved round
that resolution.  What did they say?
What did they not say? They talked to 
some purpose.  Criminal advertisements
brought out a scorching, scathing rebuke;
those not openly criminal, but the “Mas-
sage,” the “Fortune teller,” the “Meet me
at Nine o’clock,” the ads. wrapped up in
insinuations of how to be beautiful.  These
were unrolled, and their hidden poison un-
veiled.  It was news to some there, it was
evident.  But the probes were covered with
a delicate lace of words that conveyed mean-
ing without coarseness, that cut to the
quick like a surgeon’s lance, but were as
carefully handled.
	The necessity and advantage of news—
as news—was discussed with a keen sense
of the distinction between news and gossip.
The Bible was as full of revelations of sin,
murder and licentiousness as of the records
of heroism, virtue and righteousness.  Cain
was there, but Cain’s punishment was great-
er than he could bear.  The retribution was
held up as well as the crime.  Ergo: it was
well not to hide crime, lest it might escape
punishment.  Next, news-papers supplied
the demand.  If the demand was for the
prize fight it was the fault of the people,not
the paper, What made the paper—the
people?  or did the public make it?
	Sunday papers and their moral or immor-
al effect on the rising generation, etc.
	It was a ringing, clear, loud call for re-
form.  It was a justification of editorial
concession.  It was an exposé of the control
of corporations,of fees to lawyers—shysters,
rather—it was a noble defense of the honest

[column 3]
lawyer, of the conscientious controllers of 
the press.  It was an admission of its weak-
ness, it was a supporter of its strength.
And who are the women who constitute
the strength of this association?  Perhaps
some day I may individualize them.  They
are worth it.  But they are reticent,modest,
do not seek notoriety.  There is variety
among them, without which there would 
be no spiciness.  Some of them are well
known as writers, editors, journalists,
authors, poets and philanthropists.  Some
are unfledged as yet, but they will fly one
of these days.  They are not all gifted, all
wise, all learned,but the material is beyond
praise, and the unknown and uninvited
visitor passed out with a deep respect and
great appreciation of the Pacific Coast Wo-
men’s Press Association.—The Journalist.


THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF
			WOMEN.

	At the business meeting of the National
Council of Women of the United States,
held in Chicago in May, the resignation of
the Vice-President, Mrs. Ella Dietz Clymer,
was presented and accepted with expres-
sions of regret. Mrs. Clymer’s condition
of health made it imperative that she should
accede to the advice, of her physician, and
resign all official positions in the various
organizations with which she was con-
nected.
	Miss Clara Conway, of Memphis, Tenn.,
was unanimously elected to the vacant of-
fice. Miss Conway has accepted the posi-
tion and looks forward to active participa-
tion in the work of the Council, in which
she is deeply interested.
			RACHEL FOSTER AVERY.


NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN
		OF THE UNITED STATES.

	THE organization which has at heart the
best interests of the children, the Interna-
tional Kindergarten Union, has entered the
National Council of Women of the United
States.
	The President of the Union is that well-
known Kindergartner, Mrs. Sarah B.
Cooper of San Francisco, and, through the
membership of the Union in the National
Council, she becomes a Vice-President of
the latter organization, thus adding a
valuable co-worker to the Executive Board
of the Council.
	The Kindergarten Union has shown its
wisdom by appointing Mrs. Cooper to rep-
resent the Kindergarten idea on the
Honorary Committee of the World’s Con-
gress of Representative Women to be held
next year in Chicago under the joint
management of the Woman’s Branch of the
World’s Congress Auxiliary and the Na-
tional Council of Women.


PUNDITA RAMABAI opened her school in
the new home July 26.  The editor of the
Bombay Guardian calls the opening day
"a red-letter day," and the Sharada Sadan
"an accomplished fact." An interesting
feature  of the evening exercises was an ad-
dress by Mrs. Ranade, wife of an eminent
judge, an orthodox Hindu.  The school
has now thirty-four child widows and ten
non-widows, and it seems to have the con-
fidence and sympathy of the leading people 
of Bombay.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S NEWS. 

	Following are the committees appointed
for the new Year for the W. P. A.

			FINANCE.
	Nellie B. Eyester, Sarah B. Cooper,
Hannah Neall, Agnes Manning, Ruthella
S. Bolland, Isabel Raymond. 
			PRESS.
	Florence P. Matheson, Mary Lambert,
Maude Peaslee, Mrs. Sexton, Priscilla Al-
den, Virginia S. Hilliard.

		PUBLICATION. 
	Gregory Flesher, E. Hanson, Sarah
Reamer, E. D. C. Edholm, Emmeline
North. 
			VISITING.
	Mrs. Geo.  T.  Gaden, J. O. Newhall,
M. R.  Johnson, D. W.  Gelwicks, S. J.
Darling, Marian Taylor.

		PROGRAMME.
	Adeline Knapp, Nettie B. Wilcox,
Charlotte P. Stetson, Mrs. Endrea, Alice
K. Cooley, Alice C. Waterman, Mrs. Shuey,
Sarah Pratt Carr, Mary V. Lawrence.

		RECEPTION.
	Lillian Plunkett, Ina D. Coolbrith,Marian
B. Foster, Hattie Cooper, L. H. Smith,
Barbara Knell, Leila Ellis, E. O. Smith,
Frances Edgerton, Mary L. Hoffman.

		ENTERTAINMENT
	Mrs. Van Pelt, Lillian Plunkett, Florence
Matheson, Mrs. Flesher, Mrs. Gaden, N.
B. Eyester, Adeline Knapp. 
   Mr. and Mrs. Geo. T. Gaden (nee Lewis)
have arrived from the East.  Mrs. Gaden
has received the congratulations of her
numerous friends and has entered upon the
duties of her office that of corresponding
Secretary of the W. P. A. 
			ALMY PRISCILLA ALDEN.
	SAN FRANCISCO, Oct. '92.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The Woman's Pharmaceutical Associa-
tion, of Illinois, is planning to conduct a
model pharmacy in the Illinois building at
the World's Fair.

	Mrs. Ethel Gordon Fenwick, a member
of the British Royal Commission to the
World's Fair, is in Chicago, making ar-
rangements for an exhibit of the methods
of nursing in England.

	The conference of women workers to be
held early in November at Bristol,England,
promises to be unusually interesting.
Among the papers there will be one by
Mrs. Fawcett on suggested amendments of
the criminal law.

	Miss Romeyn Shaw, the private secretary
of Mrs. J. Ellen Foster, is a beautiful and a
brilliant woman.  She has the common
sense of a "down east schoolma'am."  She
does all the "meeting" and "addressing"
of the hundreds of callers at the Woman's
Republican headquarters on Fifth avenue.
She is an expert stenographer and a careful
correspondent.

	THE false statements, the half state-
ments, the perversion of facts by which the
political parties seek to promote their suc-
cess, give a sickening sense of something
woefully at fault in our State and national

[column 2]
politics.  How can the rights of women, or
any other just thing, come from men who
cannot, or will not, state the opposing side
fairly and tell the honest truth?—Ex.

	WE are glad to know that the law giving
women the right to vote for school officers
is to go before the Supreme Court in due
form.  The case is sent up from Mt. Vernon,
Ill., where two men were defeated by two
women, and they take it to heart.  We do
not know what are the points at issue, but
if it is on its merits the boys will have to
stay on the outside.—Illinois Suffragist.

ELECTRICITY is measured by volts, ohms,
amperes and watts, which terms are now
frequently seen in the ordinary periodical.
The volt is the unit of electrical pressure;
the ohm is the unit of resistance; the am-
pere is the unit of the strength of the cur-
rent and the watt is the unit of power.
The volt acting upon the ohm produces the
ampere and the watt is the unit of strength
multiplied by the unit of pressure.  A kilo-
watt is one thousand watts and equivalent
to about one and one-third horse power.

	A stock company has been formed by the
Board of Lady Managers of the World's
Fair, and its successful operation will be a
boon to women visiting the Fair.  The
company is known as the Woman's Dormi-
tory Association of the Columbian Exposi-
tion.  Shares are being sold at $10 each, no
person being allowed to hold more than
$100 worth.  Presentation of a certificate
entitles the owner to lodging at the apart-
ments of the Association while in attend-
ance at the Fair, the face value of the cer-
tificate to be applied toward pagment.  The
holders of certificates are entitled to a share
in any profits that may accrue.

	Mr. Josiah Quincy was lately interviewed
in regard to his opinion on woman suffrage,
by the New Your World.  The World
says:
	When he was asked if he thought it was
a fine thing for women to be entering the
political field and "whooping up" cam-
paign issues for the parties which they
favored, he replied:  "If you want my
opinion, take it down as I give it to you."
What follows, therefore, is Mr. Quincy's
view on the subject as dictated by him-
self:
	"I am a believer in woman suffrage, and
am for any movement which leads up to
it.  I see no objection to the participation
of women in politics.  I believe it would
be a wholesome and beneficial thing if more
political thought and interest could be stimu-
lated among them.
	"In spite of women having no votes they
possess important influence on any subject
to which they may devote their attention,
and they help in the promotion of public
opinion.—Ex.


[column 1]
Class in Obstetries.
	DR ROMANIA B. PRATT
Will commence another Class in Obstetrics
about NOVEMBER 15. A few situations
for Nurses are open in the hospital.
	For further information inquire of DR.
PRATT, Deseret Hospital.
DOCTOR MATTIE HUGHES CANNON,
	Office: II South, First West Street.
Office practice for Diseases of Women from 2
	until 4 p. m.

[column 2]
Dr. Maggie C. Shipp
Will commence her Winter Class in Obstetrics
and Nursing on Monday, October 24.
Address: Dr. Shipp, 18 Main S
	Telephone 383.
Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmedt
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
	Three doors west of Theatre.
	MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p.m.
R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K.THOMAS
[Rio Grande Western Railway Logo]
THE
Standard Gauge
RAILWAY!
..THROUGH THE..
ROCKY MOUNTAINS!
Choice of Three Distinct Routes,
AND THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT RAILROAD SCENERY
IN THE WORLD.
Two Fast Express Trains Daily
EACH WAY BETWEEN
OGDEN, SALT LAKE AND DENVER.
ELEGANT RECLINING CHAIR CARS!
Free of Charge.
Direct Connections made in Union Depots.
THE MOST THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED RAILWAY
IN THE WEST.
D.C. DODGE, A. E. WELBY, J. H. BENNETT,
Genl. Mgr.	Supt.	G. F. & P. A.
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
AVD JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CIY.


Woman’s Exponent.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 21. 		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 15, 1892.		NO.10.


CONTENTS:
	World’s Fair Mass Meeting—May B. Talmage.
Isabella of Castile—Phebe C. Young. The Spirit
of Criticism. A Trip to England. R. S. Reports.
Suffrage Speech—Ellen Jakeman. N. A. W. S. A.
Notes and News. Obituaries.
	EDITORIALS.—Cleveland and Harrison. Ap-
preciation. Baby Louisa. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY.—Columbus—Bishop O. F. Whitney.


[Column 1]
COLUMBUS.

BY BISHOP O. F. WHITNEY.

	[Read at the Concert in the Large Tabernacle
in this City, Oct. 21, 1892.],
So long as lofty peaks o'er lowly plains
Catch first the glimpses of the glorious light
That lumines this dark world; so long shall men,
Or souls that seem far more than men, be found,
To loom above the level of their kind
And greet the earliest rays of rising truth.
What though the shallow world shall scoff and
	scorn,
Not seeing what their mysic sight beholds;
But groping, groveling and denying all,
Save what their sires of antique times have
	known;
ontent to lie at ease in Lethe's vales,
And hating those who soar to higher things!
These walk and talk with God on mountain tops,
On sacred hills of solemn thought, and thence,
Like Moses from the blazing Mount, descend
To kindle wisdom's beacons for mankind.
Of such a one I sing; the Genovese,
World-binder, bridger of the boundless seas,
The conqueror and colossus of the waves,
Who stood on meditation's starry height,
Above the clouds that canopied the age,
And looked upon the earth and said,  "'Tis
	round."
As later quoth Copernicus, "It moves,"
Still later, Galileo, he who groaned
In fetters for a like truth reaffirmed.
Thrice kingly three, uncourtiered and uncrowned;
Not theirs the purple robe and diadem;
Whom sciene crowns full oft doth misery clothe;
Chains were their sceptres, dungeon cells their
	thrones.
And these they portion proud, O sailor sage!
The meed of all thy waiting, wandering toil.
No marvel; thou wert God's, not man's elect,
And thou dist serve Eternity, not Time.
Of tyrant kings and priests—earth’s recreant
	powers—
Who governed but to goad and gall mankind,
The groaning world was weary; and the hour,
The fated hour when Freedom’s prostrate form,
Bursting the shackles of long centuries—
As Samson, rousing, rent Philistian bonds—
Erect should stand in might and majesty,
And shake her locks in anger at er foes,
Drew on apace. 'Twas meet that ere that hour
O tottering thrones and trembling dynasties,
That day of reckoning and red revenge
On crowned and mitered heads and reeking
	hands,
On grinding greed and trampling tyranny,
A haven from the universal storm,
That France saw fiercely burst—yet only saw
The faint beginning, not the furious end—
Should heaven prepare.  A land of liberty,

[Column 2]
A home of peace and human brotherhood,
Where men should equal stand, a sovereign host,
Nor owe to haughty birth their high degree;
Where merit’s star o’er mammon’s might ascend,
Where brain and brawn should blood and birth
	outweigh,
Where law should liberty and life defend,
And tyranny be traitor to the realm;
Where right, not might, should monarch rise and
	reign
O'er all that breathed or blossomed, neath the
	sun;
Where, linked in chain of loving unity—
The only chain that freedom's land could bind—
A sisterhood of empires, hand in hand,
Might time their steps to Truth's triumphal tread,
And march to music of Millennial strains.
Glad harbinger of still more glorious state—
The welding of the nations—world-wide chain—
With Freedom's ensign waving over all.
The brave task thine, bold wrestler with the main,
Europia's pilgrim, Neptune's pioneer!
Tossed not alone on wild Atlantic's crest,
By angry trident of the ocean god,
But on a sea of troubles fiercer still—
The unbelief and envy of thine age,
Whose waves of cold contempt and clouds of
	scorn
And wrathful winds had well nigh overwhelmed
The bark of thy adventurous emprise,
Ere glorious Isabella's friendship beamed,
And Palos saw thy slow-descending sail.
The brave task thine, thou Titan of thy time—
Albeit thy lot to better build than know—
To plow a way for Freedom through the waves,
And plant her standers on a stranger shore—
The banner of the cross, whose law divine
Is love of right and human liberty;
To pioneer a path for Freedom's own,
To pave the way for her great champion—
A mightier e'en than thou—whose patriot arm
Enclothed with thunders of omnipotence,
Wielding the lightnings of omnipotence,
Wielding the lightnings of a righteous cause,
Should cleave the clanking chain of tyranny,
Which bound, as captive to the chariot wheel
Of Britain's power, Columbia's bleeding form.
And then—oh, glorious conquest, grander far
Than burnished steel and battling hosts might
	win!—
To turn from all he was or might have been,
To wave that all but proffered kingly crown,
And seek the sweet seclusion of repose;
Sufficed to reign—where kings too rarely reign—
Without a rival in his country's love.
Yet thou the glory of that deed shalt share,
Which gave to half the world—thy hemisphere—
What all must have and hold ere Time expire;
Since truth proclaims, had no Columbus been,
Our land had never known a Washington.
What though proud Spain witheld they guerdon
	grand—
Viceroyalty’ of realms by thee unveiled,
Vast revenues no coffer e’er contained—
Pledged recompense, of pain and patient toil!
Could aught by man bestowed thy boon repay—
Thy gift to glory and a groaning race?
Wouldst wish the great debt cancelled? Gaze
	again.
Behold what Time hath wrought—the mighty
	tree
That shelters 'neath its broad and bounteous 
	shade,
From fierce oppression's rain or fiery rays,
And feeds with hope's rare fruit, the refugees
Of Freedom's cause in every land and clime!

[Column 3]
That tree was of thy planting—thine and His,
Who wrought by thee Divinity's design;
Though thou dist never live to pluck the fruit 
Which gladdens now a grateful universe.
Nor lived to see—oh, mockery of fame!
What then had made thee weep, had'st thou been
	less
Than thy great self—thy rightful claim ignored;
Another's name upon the monument
Eternal destiny designed for thee.
But lived to eat the bread of penury,
And moist its bitter crust with burning tears,
To wear the chains which envious power had 	
	forged.
In fires of causeless hate; and then to pass
Unpitied to the tomb, unwept, unpraised
And unrequited.  E'en as some brave bark,
'Gainst which to war all angry winds conspire,
Afar by tempest's fury lashed and driven,
Dismantled, shattered, wrecked, on rocky reef
Goes down in raging seas—so sank thy soul,
Thy stalwart soul beneath life's stormy wave;
Thy greatness lost in man's ingratitude.
Lost but to man's, not to thy maker's gaze,
That ship sails on, and it shall sail for aye.
Thy fame Columbus, sank with Europe's sun,
To rise upon the world thy valor won,
Whose teeming myriads now their homage yield.
What glorious walls and glittering towers appear?
For who doth honor rear these radiant domes?
These "villages of nations," where the waves
Of Michigan the shore of Freedom lave?
Why throng these multitudes that eager wend
From Asia's ancient strand—far-famed Cathay,
Where sage K'ung Fu-tse shone and Yaou reign-
	ed;
Or wise Gautama's home, the Hindu land,
For which thy prows pierced ocean's mystery.
Pacific's coral isles and palmy groves 
Send forth their dusky-hued ambassadors. 
O’er occidental seas their course inclines,
Along the bosom of Balboa's wave.
Anon from Europe's coast, whence greatness
	springs
Too plenteous to praise or e'en to name;
Land of illustrious lives and deathless dead,
Whose deeds, like laurel blossoms, crown her
	head;
From Afric's burning waste, Atlantic's isles,
Swift o'er his billowy breast their vessels bound,
Plowing anew the path cleft by the keel
That bore Columbus to Columbia's shore.
These walls and tower are thine, and thine the
	fanes,
Upreared to science, art and industry,
Whose shining fingers point thy place of rest;
these multitudes, thy pilgrim votaries,
Who hither hie to kneel and pour their praise.
Look down, O sainted soul, upon the world,
A world that now divines what thou didst know,
And more than thou didst deem the world might
	Know;
A world that praises where it once profaned,
Adores where then it scoffed, and lauds where
	blamed.
The mystic wheel hath turned; the last is first,
And first is last—Columbus—Ferdinand—:
Which is the king, and which the vassal now?
If fame be wealth, what fabled wealth is thine!
If love be empire, where they realm's confine?
Behold all nations bending at the shrine,
Columbia, loyal to thy name, doth raise!
And thuse the present for the past atones, 
And more than Spain once promised, Earth now
	pays.


WOMAN S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	﻿WORLD’S FAIR MASS MEETING.

				—
	PURSUANT to a call made by Mrs. E. B.
Wells President of the S. L. Co. World’s
Fair Association a mass meeting of women
was held in the Salt Lake Theatre, on
Thursday Nov. 3rd, 1892. Mrs. Wells call-
ed the meeting to order, and its object as
stated in the call, was read by the Secretary
Mrs. Margaret A. Caine.
	The following program was then render-
ed. Music—“Hail Columbia” by mem-
bers of the Tabernacle Juvenile Drum
Corps. Mrs. Zina D. Young offered prayer.
The chairman introduced Mrs. Maria L.
Nebeker. The subject of whose address
was “The Pioneer women of 1847.” The
speaker entered these valleys at that time,
as a girl of scarcely fourteen years. She
spoke of the hardships that were then en-
dured by the women, living in tents and
wagons in the Fort which was subsequently
built. Their houses were low log
rooms, mud-covered, and by no means
water-proof. The food was of the coarsest
kind, many having had to dig thistles and
segos and use them as a means of subsis-
tence.
	She compared those times with the pres-
ent and said she thought all honor was due
to those brave women who bore those trials
so patiently and did so much in bringing
about this great change.
	A song was given by Mr. Grant Hamp-
ton,Prof. H. L. Krouse accompanist.
	Mrs. Corrine M. Allen spoke upon the
subject “What the World’s Fair will do for
women.” She said we should visit the
World’s Fair, not for amusement simply,
but for educational purposes as the results
of the highest achievements in every line
of woman’s work will there be presented.
She said she thought that as each woman
takes a special pride in having her own lit-
tle home appear to the best advantage and
feels a keen interest in all its surroundings,
so each woman in our own Territory should
strive to have Utah make a creditable pre-
sentation before the world. Effort is the
price of every blessing.
	An ably written article, entitled “What
Literary women can do,” was read by Mrs.
Alice Merrill Horne.

	There will be amassed in the World’s Fair
buildings and grounds, for which alone the im-
mense sum of $20,000,000 will be expended, the
largest and most wonderful display of the pro-
ducts and powers of the universe that has ever
been centralized in all the world’s history.
	Universal, because nearly 100 nations and
colonies will participate in the exposition, and
most wonderful in the consummation of 1,800
years of science, art, invention, revelation and
literature.
	Each nation and colony is making the best pos-
sible exhibit, and there we see the whole world in
a day.
	It is scarcely three years since work began, and
so systematically and actively has it been pushed
that the World’s exposition has already assumed
magnificent proportions, and think but a few
months will pass when, like the midday sun in all
its splendor bursting forth upon a dreary world,
the knowledge and enlightenment of each and all
nations will fill the whole universe.
	Think what an epoch it makes for women!
The Gordian knot is at last severed and woman
is set free from the traditions that fettered and
bound her socially, politically and intellectually.
Every avenue is now open to her. For the first
time in history, men and women are working on
the same plane as competitors, and equal justice
is meted out to both. And, dear friends, woman
is doing herself proud in the noble work. Not
only is she serving with success on national and
state committees, but has enlisted, through liter-
ary efforts, enthusiastic interest of eminent and
high minded women abroad. “And it is surpris-
ing that into countries of almost oriental conser-
vatism and limitation this electric current of en-

[Column 2]
thusiasm has extended and formed active com-
mittees even in Turkey, Japan and Mexico.”
	In consequence the woman’s department is
making a wonderful success. We are inspired to
do our part part and represent Utah in the noble
cause.
	To work intelligently and with good results
our plans should be well designed—to the terri-
torial committees we look for this—but in the
accomplishment of these plans the burden of suc-
cess falls on the literary woman.
	Let us pledge our assistance; let us proclaim
the World’s Fair cause; let us be a powerful factor
in promoting a proper representation of Utah.
	Fill our books, magazines, papers and journals
with information to enthuse the people; tell the
great good it will do for humanity; that is the
greatest educator of the age; tell the character of
its buildings and exhibits; tell what other states
are doing in exhibiting. Our literary women
should see that their cause is well represented.
The poems,papers, books and journals, composed
and edited by them, should constitute an interest-
ing collection.
	I wish I could enthuse the young women on
this subject. If you would lend your talents to
the cause many beautiful compositions could be
added to our rich store and aid in making a
meritorious showing.
	We are pleased to note that very often wo-
man’s superior intellectuality has been recognized
in the selection of her literary productions and
plans and designs when offered in competition.
A young lady of only local literary reputation
recently carried off the palm for the Columbian
Ode.
	If we have literary friends let us encourage
them to contribute their best. That the grandeur
and beauty of our mountains and vales may
find fitting praise and be proclaimed in that im-
mense display by the genius of its talented wo-
men. Discuss this subject in the press and at the
fireside, in the pulpit and on the lecture stand,
that enthusiasm may be aroused and the people
will not only try to assist in our exhibit, but have
an absorbing desire to go and see the wonders of
the universe. and seeing believe and believing fall
down and worship.

	Miss Jennie Hawley delighted the andi-
ence with her beautiful singing. A paper
“My recent visit to Chicago” was read by
Territorial President Mrs. Emily S. Rich-
ards.

	At no time in the history ot the world has such
an opportunity been offered woman to display
her skill in the arts and industries; her proficiency
in the professions, in skilled and unskilled labor
and her art in the management of home and its
domestic industries, as will be afforded at the
great Columbian Exposition at Chicago in 1893.
	It is fitting that in this great country where wo-
man has been advanced to a higher plane than
she ever occupied in the history of the world;
that the Congress in legislating for the great Ex-
position should especially recognize her. The
women of the world recognizing the great benefit
to their sex to be derived through this exposition
have resolved to participate and in every land and
clime enthusiastic reports come of the works wo-
men are preparing for exhibition at the World’s
Fair.
	In every state and territory in the United States
women have been officially recognized in this ex-
position, and it seems especially appropriate that
the women of Utah should embrace this oppor-
tunity of appearing before the world.
	During my recent visit to Chicago I was im-
pressed by the wonderful interest taken by the
women of the land in this great exposition.
	The question of the hour seems to be with the
women of this country, “What can we do for the
World’s Fair?” This may seem a grave question
for the women of Utah, and apparently cannot be
answered satisfactorily, however, it is agitating
the minds of women of other states and terri-
tories and at Chicago anything of the unique or
taking character is seized upon with avidity; and I
must confess that when I first visited Chicago I
felt some hesitancy in suggesting anything that
the women of Utah could do, but when I learned
that in other states they were troubled by the
same preplexing question, I ventured to make our
offering which, as you know, is a set of silk por-
tiers,and I was exceedingly gratified at the way
the offer was accepted.
	The president and secretary of the national
board, together with the leading officials all com-
plimented Utah on the utility of her offering and
in the selection of a place to hang our portiers,
we were given one of the most prominent

[Column 3]
positions in the woman’s building for such a con-
tribution.
	In all the departments of the exposition Utah
has been especially honored and the officials
seem desirous of according us every favor they
have in their power. They seem anxious to en-
courage us and tell us that as much interest will
be taken in the Utah exhibit as in that of any
other state, and so far as I know no suggestions
made for a Utah exhibit in any department has
been rejected at Chicago.
	In addition to this, private individuals will have
the privilege of making private or special dis-
plays.
	It is the purpose of the Utah board of lady
managers to follow the same general plan in re-
gard to our local matters as that laid down by the
national board of lady managers, therefore, we
have notified the ladies of the several counties
to present something of a special character as
coming from the women of the county for the
purpose of making the Utah building elegant and
attractive and I am gratified to learn that in many
of the counties the women are taking an active
interest in the matter.
	I am pleased to learn that the women of Salt
Lake county are wide awake and preparing to do
their share. If in all other counties the same in-
terest is taken, no one will feel ashamed of the
Utah women’s exhibit at the Columbian ex-
hibition. While this work is divided between the
territory, county and individual, it will all go to
make one great whole and will be looked upon
by visitors at the World’s Fair as an exhibit from
the women of Utah
	No individual exhibitor will be neglected; each
one will be duly recognized.
	It is my idea that we should plan together for
the purpose of making an exhibit that will be the
pride of every citizen of this great territory.

	Dr. Mattie P. Hughes was next intro-
duced and in well chosen and eloquent
language, paid a glowing tribute, to the
“young ladies of Utah,” urging them to
put forth their best endeavors in this grand
cause.
After a short intermission the program was
resumed by Mrs. Agnes Olsen Thomas
singing in that charming style which is so
characteristic of all her musical efforts, “My
Mountain Home.” The subject of a very
able speech by Mrs. J. B. Thrall was,
“What women will do for the World’s
Fair.”
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt read an instructive
article on the subject “The business wo-
men of Utah.” Mrs. Emily S. Richards
gave a few words of explanation regarding
dormitories at the Fair. It is so arranged
that a share—the value of which is $10—
will entitle the holder to a private room
with board, for twenty five days, or two
may occupy the room half that time for the
same amount.
	Mrs. Wells made a few appropriate re-
marks and the meeting closed with lively
music by the band.
		MAY B. TALMAGE Secretary protem.


ISABELLA OF CASTILE.
				[Continued.]
	THE light that had begun to dawn upon
the minds of men caused them to be con-
vinced in other ways besides religious mat-
ters; a new hemisphere was to be discover-
ed; “A land choice above all lands;” a
land destined to be a land of liberty and a
refuge for the oppressed of all nations; one
that had been kept hidden for centuries,
but the time had come for it to be brought
to light and chosen instruments were raised
up, fitted to preform the work. Christopher
Columbus a native of Genoa supposed to be
bom about the year 1436, marrying the
daughter of a great navigator in the
Portuguese service and obtaining through
her many valuable charts and other things
relating to Geograghical discoveries.


[Column 1]
While studying and making maps and
charts for the livelihood of his family be-
came convinced that by sailing due West a
great Country would be discovered; and
though there had been lately some new dis-
coveries made both by the Venetians and
Portuguese yet when Columbus spoke of
land lying Westward it was received with
derision; but with the energy accompaning
great minds he made several voyages in or-
der to prepare himself for the great enter-
prise that he was determined to attempt;
having laid his reasons for believing such
a land existed, before King John of Portu-
gal and importuning his assistance the king
laid the project before the nautical and
scientific men of his kingdom; they derided it;
but that did not prevent the king meanly
taking advantage of the plan obtained from
Columbus of sending out a ship to examine
the route, but they soon returned casting
ridicule upon the project.
	Disgusted and heartsore Columbus
sought his native Genoa, where his theories
were treated as the product of a visionary
brain. He met with no better success at
the Court of Venetia but all his reverses
could not divest his mind of the idea that
he had demonstrated to himself as a fact;
besides was he not led on by the hand of an
over-ruling Providence? by this same
powerful and beneficent hand, weary,
hungry and discouraged he turned his steps
towards Spain, there he met with one who
ever afterwards proved a friend, the su-
perior of a convent in Andalusia at which
place he stopped to beg some bread and
water for his motherless child, the com-
panion of his travels.
	This superior of the convent Juan Perez
de Marchena himself a man of great learn-
ing was so struck with the great ability and
reasoning of Columbus that he became al-
most convinced of the truth of his idea and
determined to use his great influence and
obtain for him a favorable reception by the
king and queen; he was kindly received and
the almost despairing man was listened to
for the first time with appreciation by the
ears of royalty.
	Isabella’s powerful mind at once grasped
the Geographical problem but she was won
more by the consideration that there might
exist a people ignorant of the Christian
religion and that to her might belong the
honor, that through lending herself to the
enterprise she would be the means of con-
verting them to the faith in which she be-
lieved. Ferdinand listened but coldly to
any dem and madeupon his treasury he was
then engaged in a war long and expensive
with Grenada and notwithstanding the
desire of Isabella to assist Columbus,
his cause was considered of secondary im-
portance to the great national interest at
stake; for though Columbus was treated
with consideration and remained attached to
the Court, he must have experienced all
the heartsickness of hope deferred, when
after a period of nearly seven years of weary
waiting he found himself no nearer the
completion of his object; for though Isa-
bella still gave him hopes of assistance,
her royal treasury was so low she could
not accomplish her purpose without some
extraordinary effort being made; Columbus
at last feeling how little faith was to be
put in princes, wearied with long waiting
determined to turn his back upon old Spain
and visit the king of France, who had
written some friendly letters to him.
Columbus had not lost faith in his cause or
in what he still believed to be his mission,

[Column 2]
but determined to wait no longer on the in-
difference of Ferdinand but mounting a
mule which he borrowed, journeyed to-
ward Santa Fe and now was Spain in
danger of losing the honor that might have
been hers. But Columbus had left a
friend at Court, and upon the representation
that same Juan Perez Marchena to Isa-
bella that Columbus was leaving Spain,
Isabella at once dispatched a courier entreat-
ing him to return; this he at first refused to
do but on becoming convinced that it was
at the request, and with the pledge of Isa-
bella herself, he gladly returned to her
presence, and how his heart must have re-
joiced when she assured him there should
be no more delay, but pledged her royal
word that she would herself undertake the
responsibility of the expenses of the ex-
pedition, she would do it for her own
crown of Castile, offering to pledge her
jewels rather than fail to fit out the ex-
pedition; for when Isabella had once put her
hand to the plough there was no wavering
or turning back; but she pursued her object
with all the energy of her nature, and so at
last three small vessels were fitted out and
put to sea on the third day of August 1492
only one of which was equipped with one
hundred and twenty men ready to start in
this adventurous enterprise; but with what
were these vessels freighted? with the study
of a life time. With the weight of eighteen
years of weary waiting, with the hopes, and
prayers of Isabella; but above all by the in-
domitable will and courage of Columbus,
and the trust in God which he manifested,
throughout his strange and eventful career.
And they were guided too by that Almighty
power who holdeth the winds and the
waves in his hand and whose spirit inspired
the heart of Columbus and led him on to
his destiny. And so a new world was dis-
covered and a new impetus given to the
nations. And what a triumph for Isabella,
when on the 15th of March 1493 the small
fleet of Columbus sailed into the harbor of
Palos. How different was his reception now
than when an unknown and obscure man
bringing with him undoubted proofs of the
great discovery he had made, than when
he stopped at the door of the Franciscan
convent to ask for bread and water for his
hungry child.
	Now all vied with each other to do him
honor not only Isabella bnt Ferdinand
knew that from henceforth the name of
Columbus, would be known and honored in
every land, for not all the triumphs of
Ferdinand, not when the standards of Cas-
tile and Saint James first waved from the
Capital of Grenada and the Moorish King
delivered to Ferdinand the keys of the
Alhambra, not then was so much honor
conferred upon Spain as when Isabella of-
fered to pawn her jewels, and not the in-
credulity of her consort to fit out three
small vessels arid become a co-discoverer of
a New World. It is necessary to pass over
many events in the life of this great man;
throughout all its vicissitudes Isabella re-
mained his firm friend; and when through
the evil machinations of his enemies on his
third voyage and through the miscon-
struction of the orders of Ferdinand he was
brought back in chains to the land on which
he had conferred so much wealth and honor,
it was the tears of Isabella of Castile that
poured the balm of consolation into his
wounded heart, and bleeding honor.
	He was still under the patronage of his
royal friend that he sailed on his fourth voy-
age in 1502 but he was destined never more

[Column 3]
to meet this true and loyal friend for when
he arrived in Spain on the 7th of November
1504 the great brain and tender heart of
Isabella of Castile, was about to cease to
beat, and her earthly career of usefulness
and power was soon to be closed forever
Isabella expired on the 26th of November
1504 at the age of fifty four years haying
occupied the throne of Castile for thirty
years.
	But Isabella still lives in the hearts of
thousands and as long as this vast Conti-
nent shall be inhabited by the tribes of men
so long as the praises of the generations of
children yet unknown shall ascend to the
Most High for the glorious gift of Liberty
and Freedom. As long as the anniversary
or the discovery of this great country
shall be observed, so long shall we remem-
ber and claim for our own Isabella of Cas-
tile.					PHEBE C.YOUNG.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE SPIRIT OF CRITICISM.

	A LITTLE mirror was once given to me on
which was painted, "Be to my faults a lit-
tle blind, and to my virtues ever kind.”
I never see those words, though the proverb
is an old one, that I do not think what a
great deal it means in everyday life. You
think you would not say a disagreeable
word about your friend for anything, and
yet somebody comes up to you and talks
about her talents, or her beauty, or her
goodness, and, almost unconsciously, you
say, “yes, that is true, but” and then you
speak of some minor fault. It is the
wicked spirit of criticism rising up in you.
I wish that all girls, and when I say all
girls I mean girls of all ages, would learn to
subdue this, for I cannot but believe that
these little fault-findings, these little criti-
cisms of dress, of manner of mode of
speech, or of what ever it may be, only tend
to make the mind smaller and the girl her-
self seem envious. And it grows on one
so—one feels so certain after awhile that
one is going to see the disagreeable rather
than the agreeable side of everything.
Nothing human is perfect. Just remember
that.
	Try and think that if you can find faults
in your friend, how many more can she
find in you. Just run over the list on your
own side. Every one of us likes the wo-
man who says pleasant things, and the say-
ing of them really creates the feeling of
them; if you keep at it long enough, you
will grow to see the very best in everybody,
and the faults will be entirely obliterated so
far as you are concerned. I once knew a
girl who had the reputation for possessing a
bad temper; her dearest friends said of her:
“She is a dear girl, but what a quick tem-
per she has.” She seemed to regard this
as a sort of compliment; she spoke of her
quick temper herself, and never realized
that she was encouraging it by continually
talking about and giving it a semi-kindly
criticism. This is only one instance of the
encouragement of faults, and what you and
I want, my dear girl is the encouragement 
of virtues. So use my little motto, and
see if with its help you cannot put down
the little, mean spirit of criticism.—Ex.


MRS. POTTER PALMER said on Columbus
Day that if the discovery of America was
the great event of the fifteenth century,
"the discovery of woman is the great fact of
the nineteenth century."—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,  -  -  Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street,
second gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,  NOVEMEBER 5, 1892.


[Column 1]

CLEVELAND vs. HARRISON.

	A GREAT political wave seems to have
swept over the country, producing such
changed conditions in the minds of the
people, that appearances indicate that for
the next few years, many wonderful changes
may be wrought and other methods intro-
duced than those that have prevailed of 
late years. The Republicans were con-
fident of the strongholds they held in sever-
al of the States but for some reason, the tide
of public opinion perhaps, have yielded to
the popular cause and helped to make it the
winning one in the race of the election of
the Chief of the nation. The people and
their wishes as expressed by the ballot have
the right because this is the form of govern-
ment which declares, this to be a govern-
ment for the people and by the people;
though in fact it is but half the people, be-
cause women are not counted.
	Leaving that aside however the people
have emphatically expressed their choice
for Grover Cleveland and to all intents
and purposes the whole term of public
affairs is likely to be turned in other chan-
nels than that it has been drifting of late.
The House of Representatives will have a
large Democratic majority and the Senate a
small majority it is said, so that determines
the policy that is likely to prevail for the
coming term however conservative the party
may be, which is not the character borne
by the Democrats; although it has been said
of Mr. Cleveland himself.
	Mrs. Cleveland so won the hearts of the
people during her short term in the White
House that she will likely be exceedingly
popular as its mistress for the second time.
The sad death that has recently occurred in
the family of President Harrison must have
caused him to feel much less enthusiasm in
his own cause of winning the election and
when the champion of a cause loses his en-
thusiasm, or his ambition is lessened the
people grow less enthusiastic in the same
ratio, and in all probability President Har-
rison cares less for it than he would had
Mrs. Harrison been with him to share his
place and the honors confered by the people.
We do not recall any instance in the history

[Column 2]

of this Republic where both nominees had
previously held the Presidential office. It
is a new phase, and the various questions
that confront the government at the present
time seem to be of a complicated and diffi-
cult character to determine. Possibly the
sagacity and wisdom of the incoming Officers
of the Republic, may solve some of the
problems that have lately appeared so deep
and abstruse as to be beyond the reach of
the most skillful diplomat to solve satis-
factorily to the people most interested in
the solution.
	As to Utah the result seemed very
doubtful beforehand but the people have
given their opinion through the ballot and
the Democratic nominee has received
the largest number of votes and therefore
will be declared the Delegate. In fact has
been honored by the ratification. In view of
the sacred trust reposed in the Delegate from
this particular Territory where there are
too many interests at stake and such a
complication of circumstances past and
present that ought to be adjusted, and also
when the fact is taken into consideration
that Utah is fully entitled to statehood if
the people were given the same privileges
as others ranking similarly in population
and other essential conditions, taking all
these things into consideration the Delegate
from Utah ought to be as able and sound a
man as could be found in the Territory.
	Women have not much to do with these
things as they have no vote, and their voices
do not seem to have been heard much in
this campaign, which perhaps is not a mat-
ter of regret considering the way in which
matters were conducted, but if women had
a vote there would have been a vast differ-
ence in affairs.
	The women of this Territory should have
had the same privilege in this Presidential
election (had Utah becom[-] a state as she
should have done) as the women of Wyom-
ing, and it is only due to the prejudices
brought to bear against this Te[-]ritory in
the past by unprincipled [-]ien who were
looking for office and its emoluments, and
the prejudice created thereby that they
were deprived of their vested rights without
due process of law. But there is a good
time coming it is ardently to be hoped and
even those who do not favor women in
politics see that suffrage for women is in-
evitable.
	While we deplore greatly the lack of op-
portunity to participate in the questions
which involve human rights in this Terri-
tory, and also the condition of affairs that
has kept Utah so long in the background
when she ought to be shining brightly
among the cluster of states, yet we rejoice
in the victory gained for woman in the state
of Wyoming, and congratulate the women
there on being the first in this nineteenth
century to vote for the Chief Executive of
the nation. They have made an opening
in the wall of prejudice that will let in the

[Column 3]

light upon some who sit in darkness, for
however much of theory may be taught
there must always be practise to convince
some timid ones, who are fearful of con-
sequences in new and untried paths.
	The women of Wyoming have worked
out successfuly two or three abstruse prob-
lems, it has been abundantly proved that
women could cast a ballot without destroy-
ing home influence or happiness, also that
women could fill positions of public trust,
and now that women could actually help to
elect the national President and, "the stars
have not fallen," nor the earth been shaken,
nor have we heard of more divorce cases or
more difficulties of a family nature than in
states where women are only reckoned in
the category of idiots, insane, etc.
	And so it is easy to see the world moves,
and women are coming to the front and the
Columbian Exposition will do more to bring
about the enfranchisement of women than
all other causes put together. This may
be a matter of opinion, but in our humble
opinion it will prove a truth.


APPRECIATION.
	WE feel much credit is due to those who
lent their efforts toward making the mass
meetiug of women recently held in this City
interesting and successful, for such it was
so some good people are kind enough to
say.
	The Board of Directors aimed to have it
so of that we feel assured and the little fel-.
lows who sat in the orchestra and played the
drums and fifes, did their best to help along.
The speakers who came forward and faced
the audience deserve praise for the able
manner in which they presented their sub-
jects, and we are only sorry that there was
not a short hand reporter present to take
full notes from those speakers who did not
have written papers.
	First we would especially thank the Ter-
ritorial President Mrs. Richards for answer-
ing so graciously to the call made upon her
even before she had returned from her trip
to Chicago, and so we trust all our patrons
and the readers of the paper will be inter-
ested in what she has said. Next we mnst ’
thank Mrs. Nebeker for coming on to fill
the place Mrs. Horne expected to have
taken with only a few hours notice; the
sickness in Mrs. Horne’s family making it
not only impossible for her to speak, but it
was not possible to communicate with her 
as to what she had planned to say. There-
fore Mrs. Nebeker out of her own fertile
brain had to collect her thoughts and gather
up a few reminiscences hurriedly, and fill
the first place on the program after the
music. The lady had never been before so
largean audience until then and consequently
felt timid and nervous, but she did bravely,
and withal made a fine appearance, which
speaks well for the pioneer women, after the
toil and hardship encountered.
	Mrs. Allen’s address was effective and
she made some telling points. Her refer-
ence to Victor Hugo’s assertion that the
nineteenth century was woman’s century,
was well put, and also the quotation from
Dr. Stevens that the brotherhood of man
must first include the sisterhood of woman.
	However Mrs. Allen’s strong personality


and originality of thought, and expression
were her best points after all.
	Dr. Hughes it is  generally conceded out-
did herself,she was eloquent and forcible and
lack of self-consciousness gave her the ease
necessary to keep the thread of her subject,
besides she had a fine theme, and one on
which there is much to be said that is al-
ways entertaining. Dr. Hughes had the
enthusiasm needed to carry her audience.
	Mrs. Horne was gracefully timid, and
modestly beautiful,her paper was excellently
well-written and contains much information
and food for thought. She will gain more
courage by practice. She deserves the
highest praise for coming out and helping
the cause along, instead of making flimsy
excuses as some young women do, who might
use their talents in promoting the develop-
ment and uplifting, not only of their own
sex in various lines but of all humanity.
	Mrs. J. B. Thrall evidenced in her speech
that she is a finished scholar and speaker
and an ardent admirer of woman, and she
no doubt convinced her hearers that women
were going to do a very great deal all along
the lines of work and of thought, mentally
morally and intellectually for the World’s
Fair. Dr. Pratt made some strong points
in a business way for women and gave some
facts concerning woman’s efforts here in an
organized capacity. The lady has a good
presence, uses choice language is always
sincere and is considerably accustomed to
speaking, though her many professional
duties preclude her public  speaking;  how-
ever we hope to see her come out more often
in the future than she  has  of late,  feeling
sure she can do great good.
	As to the musicians and singing we cer-
tainly do appreciate their efficient aid, Prof.
Krouse especially, who so kindly  spent  an
afternoon of his  valuable time, we  tender
him here our most hearty thanks, and the
young  women  Miss Hawley  and  Mrs.
Thomas and Grant Hampton also who sang,
created sufficient enthusiasm to assure them
the  audience  were  appreciative  of their
voices; the meeting would have been a fail-
ure we fear without those charming soul-
inspiring notes.
	In behalf of the County Association  of
women we thank these good people one and
all, and especially the ladies who made the
collection with  their  pretty costumes and
dainty baskets, above all their quiet manner
and amiability.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


BABY LOUISA.

	ANOTHER little sweetangel of the house-
hold has gone from our midst to grace a
far more beautiful home; and though she
left aching hearts behind her here, she has
doubtless gladdened the loved ones there
with her charming presence.
			“One less at home!
Chill as the earth-born mist the thought would
	rise,
And wrap our footsteps round and dim our eyes;
But the bright sunbeam darteth from the skies;
			One more in heaven!”

			"One more in heaven!
Another thought to brighten cloudy days,
Another theme for thankfulness and praise,
Another link on high our souls to raise
			To home and heaven.”

	Louisa Hedges infant daughter of Will S.
Hedges and Clara E. Wells Hedges, was
born in Salt Lake City, June 5th 1891 and
died of pleura-pneumonia October 14,1892,
aged one year, four months and nine days.
She was the only daughter and was most


fondly beloved not only by the parents but
the whole Wells household and especially
by her Aunt Emeline (the mother’s sister)
who had been with her from her birth, and
whose grief seemed almost equal to that of
the little one’s mother.
	Little Louie as she was always called was
not only a very beautiful child, but
exceedingly bright and winning in man-
ner and was the idol of the home; but these
trials and sorrows are alike the portion of
all, and through these afflictions we learn
the lessons that prepare us for higher and
better things.
	The presence of scarletina in the house
prevented the funeral being held at the
residence, and on Sunday about noon the
services were conducted at the cemetery,
where the family and friends had gathered
to pay the last tribute to the dear child.
Many floral gifts were brought beautiful and
sweet and all that friendship and love could
add was done in tender sympathy for the
stricken mourners.
	The day was cold and weather gloomy
rendering a still more sad effect to the scene:
the singing by a quartette consisting of H.
G. Whitney, John D. Spencer, Emma Py-
per and Edith Knowlton, rendering pathetic
hymns, was most effective.
	Bishop O. F. Whitney spoke a short time
in his usual comforting and sympathetic
manner offering such consolation as the
Gospel affords to those who are bowed down,
and closed by reciting the poem ever ap-
propriate at such a time entitled “SOME-
TIME,” after singing by the quartette, Elder
Rulon S. Wells thanked the friends for
kindly words and deeds and dedicated the
ground, then the little white casket was
lowered and dust to dust, and the grave was
covered with the floral tributes so emblem-
atic of the purity of the little one whose
spirit had fled to brighter realms.
		‘‘So-by scattered ruins,
			By sweet links unbound,
		By fair blossoms all unheeded
			Trampled on the ground;
		So, He brings them home to Him,
		Where no cloud their joy can dim.”


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE ladies’ department of the World’s
Fair in Utah County held quite a stirring
meeting in Provo a week or so ago at which
very able and eloquent speeches were made
and fine music rendered. Miss Thurman
we are told was glowingly eloquent, and
Miss Lillian Roberts sang patriotic songs in
patrioic voice and style.
	WE must beg the indulgence of our
readers for this once in not being able to
continue the story, “In Rural England,” on
account of so much space being used for the
Mass Meeting and other current topics.
We have also other matter on hand that had
to be deferred and again we have crowded
out the minutes of the General Relief
Society Conference.
	VERMONT women are rejoicing over the
passage of a bill in the Legislatnre giving
the women of that State numicipal suf-
frage; the wives of the most prominent men
in the State are giving receptions and enter-
taining in consequence, and altogether
jubilant over such a success and no won-
der, indeed it is a victory considering the
conservatism of New England.
	IMPRESSIVE memorial services were held
in the Tabernacle in this City on Sunday


Nov. 13, for David Hoagland Cannon who
died Oct. 17. while on his mission in Ger-
many, and also for all the Elders  who
have died while  absent  upon missions.
The Tabernacle was beautifully draped in
white suggestively emblematic of the
purity of life of the young brother whose
body lay there in the elegant metallic cas-
ket in which his remains were brought
across the sea and the continent,for interment
beside his mother and with the Cannon
family.


A TRIP TO ENGLAND.

			[Continued.]
	WHILE waiting for those who were older
and less sprightly than ourselves  reach us,
we sat ourselves down on one of the many
seats which were placed along the railing,for
the convenience of weary climbers like our-
selves, and enjoyed a view of the surround-
ing city, or cities. The Brooklyn Bridge is
certainly  a   wonderful  construction; and,
while looking upon  its huge proportions,
and wonderful advantages, one is led to ex-
claim in the language of the bible: “Man
hath sought out many  inventions.”  And,
after viewing, and reflecting upon the won-
derful works that have been conceived in
the mind, and wrought ont by the hands of
man,  we are better prepared  to  understand
and appreciate the greatness  and power  of
the Almighty.     For if  puny  man in  his
fallen state, is capable of producing such 
wonders, can our imaginations  conceive of
anything too  prodigiously marvelous to  be
accomplished by the Lord.   “For high as 
are  the heavens above  the  earth,  so  are
God’s ways above the ways  of man.”  On
another occasion we availed ourselves of the
opportunity   of mounting   the   Bridge  at
night; that we might obtain a gas light view
of the city and harbor.   There was no moon,
but the myriads  of  stars  shone  brightly,
making the  heavens  appear  like  a  richly
jeweled canopy o'er spreading  the  earth:
while the innumerable lights from the city,
and lights  in  the  harbor  and  rivers, pro-
duced the pleasing  effect  of a gem-inlaid
land.
	Altogether the view from this command-
ing position is rather more than splendid—
and made us feel solemn and  poetically en-
clined; and with the same impulse, we, not
being capable of giving  expression  to our
thoughts in our own language,fell back up-
on our poet Longfellow.
	In like manner we visited nearly all the
places of special interest  in  the  city: but
among the most novel was  one  which we
found on “Wall” Street. This street leads
out from Broadway and is invariably associ-
ated in our minds  with large  fortunes lost
or won, madcap  speculations  and reckless,
ruthless, risking.    After walking up the
street for some little distance our attention
was attracted by a peculiar buzzing  sound,
which we could not directly define. No— 
it was not the wind, it was not the train
coming in—but after walking a little farther,
and listening a little harder, we arrived at
the conclusion that the noise which we
heard was produced by human voices. Yes
we were nearing the “Stock Exchange.”
Entering the building and ascending the
broad stone steps, we were shown into the
visitors gallery; from which position we
could obtain a full view of what was going
on below. That is, we could walk around
the gallery; and from all sides view a lot of
apparently crazy, though highly respectable
looking men, yelling at each other, all yell-


[Column 1]

ing together and wildly gesticulating with
their hands as though their very lives de-
pended upon it; while the radiant bloom on
their countenances, indexed the intense ex-
citement they felt, handkerchiefs were ner-
vously yet freely applied to wipe the per-
spiration from their heated brows;—while
the many telegraph operators, who had
posts all around the circular room,kept up
a constant click, click, click, on their instru-
ments, adding to the general hubbub and
confusion. It was quite impossible for us
to distinguish a word they were saying,
and looking down upon this noisy foolish
mass of humanity, we could not refrain
from mentally making use of the words of
that saucy "Puck" and exclaimed, "What
fools we mortals be."
	The scene is changed;—and we are now
fairly launched upon the mysterious deep.
We have bid adieu to the Western world,
the land of our nativity, and watch with
co-mingled feelings of sadness and satis-
faction, the rapidly receding shore.
	How the brilliant rays of the declining
sun, glorify aud bring out as by an illumin-
ation, the stately splendor and surpassing
grandeur of the land we love.
	We view it with swelling hearts, hearts
that o'er flow with gratitude, not all un-
mixed with pride, and we exclaim with
rapture deep—profound—"This is my own,
my native land."
	The sun sinks lower, lower, behind yon
fading western hills, and the shades of
night creep on apace to assume the place of
day. Yet in our recollections that il-
lumination still remains. Our country is en-
circled by a halo of light.
	Tis night; deep, vast, and solemn; and the
myriad lamps of heaven are kindly lighted,
penetrating the darkness that rests upon this
uufathomable world of nature.
	"Shine out, O, friendly stars—O,  won-
drous spheres, shine out in all your splendor;
and leave us not in darkness, with these
hungry lashing waves. Shine out in all
your glory;—telling plainly the sweet story,
of our Father's boundless mercy and our
Savior's wondrous love."
	Encompassed by such solemn grandeur,
such awe inspiring magnificence, we ask
ourselves the momentous question; "what
are we?" The answer comes spontaneously:
"Oh, arrogant mortal, thou art but a tiny
speck, amid God's vast creations:" We are
humiliated; yea,  almost stunned, by the
thought of our utter insignificance; our
nothingness. But soon is applied a soothing
balm, to the wounded spirit, and the still
small voice repeats to us these reassuring
words: "Not a sparrow falleth, but your
Heavenly Father knoweth it, and every
hair of your head is numbered. Fear not,
for are ye not of much more worth than
many sparrows?"
	How our hearts exult with gladness and
rejoicing; with praise and thanksgiving to
our Father and God, for His goodness and
mercy, long suffering and  tender care, that
encircles us, abides with us, day by day.
	I spent many evenings on the deck of the
vessel, which seasons failed not to impress
upon me, useful lessons of humility, and
greater love and reverence for the won-
drousness of God.
	"Oh, a life on the Ocean wave, the man
who wrote it was green" etc. Thus sang
one of our steamer passengers who did not
enjoy sea sickness; and we all felt willing
to join in the chorus. Yes, all our fond
anticipations of the night before, were shat-
tered to smitherines;—and we felt that we

[Column 2]

were really iu the grasp of that unwelcome
visitant; "generally always" associated with
"life on the Ocean wave."
	In order to try the power of mind over
matter, I had determined that I would not
give in to the disagreeable visitor; but
would condnct myself just as though I
was perfectly free from any squirmishy
feeling, and perhaps if I took no notice of
it, and did not let others guess that any-
thing was wrong, it might leave me. So
with this idea and purpose strong in my
mind, I took my appointed seat at the break-
fast table—with a great deal of assumed
composure; though I noted, that but very,
very few of those who sat down to the din-
ner table the night before, were now to be
seen. My waiter, all attention, inquired
what I would like, at the same time present-
ing me a bill of fare, and venturing to sug-
gest what he thought would be nice. The
very words on the bill signifying food, lit-
erally turned my stomach; and I felt that if
that waiter stood there talking porridge and
milk,ham and eggs, coffee, toast, rolls mar-
malade etc,to me, I must——on the spot.
So keeping my mouth as nearly shut as pos-
sible to admit any sound whatever, I told
him I wonld have a cup of coffee, and some
dry toast. He could tell by the manner in
which the order was given that I should
not care to wait overly long for him to fill
it; so hurried away as lively as possible,
wearing a peculiar smile on his countenance.
	I could feel myself turning pale all over,
and hot and cold alternately. I knew that
the Captain, the Purser, the Docter. and
some of the passengers who were hardened
to sea life, were eyeing me, to see how long
I would stay with it; which knowledge did
not add any to my comfort. Finally the
coffee and toast arrived and I proceeded to
partake thereof—sipping the coffee and
munching the toast—trembling lest any
moment an accident might befall me.
Probably I sat there three minutes trying to
appear as if I was enjoying myself; every
second of which I felt I could not hold out
another second; yet I would choke it down,
determined that I would not be sick; but O,
the agony of that first breakfast on the
Ocean.
	However notwithstanding my heroic re-
solves, when the three or at most four min-
utes had expired, I had concluded that if
I wished to avoid making myself unpleas-
antly conspicuous, I had better leave the
table, and that without much ceremony; I
made a beeline for my state room which
luckily was very near the saloon, and
dejectedly threw myself down upon the
hard little couch, vanquished. I remained
there somefew hours only, as it was not
recommended for my health;and then succed-
ed in scrambling upon deck, where I joined
my companions who were in a similar con-
dition to my own. We tried for sometime
to cheer each other by chatting,singing,etc.
for, from some uaccountable reason, each
one seemed most anxious that each other
one, should not guess that they were afflict-
ed. So we persistently declared that there
was nothing the matter with us. No in-
deed; we were not sick; alas such protes-
tations were idle. The pallor of the face,
the languor of the movement, and the gen-
eral shrinking from even the sound of the
dinner bell, betrayed only too surely the in-
ward feelings of all. It was quite useless
to try to conceal the fact; we must submit
to the inevitable, which wise conclusion
we arrived at sooner or later, and resolved
to make the best of the situation.

[Column 3]

	This state of affairs lasted for nearly a
week, during which time I made the deck
my dining-hall.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

		REORGANIZATION.
	A SPECIAL meeting was called by the
Bishop at the 6th, Ward Assembly Rooms,
Oct. 5th, 1892; for the purpose of reorganiz-
ing the Relief Society. Bishop J. E. Wat-
son and Counselor Arnold G. Giauque were
present; also Brothers Snarr and Latham.
The meeting was opened by Singing,
"Come, Come ye Saints." Prayer by Bro.
Jas. Latham. Bishop Watson explained the
business of the meeting; owing to the de-
mise of our late President the Bishop had
deemed it wise to reorganize this Society;
said it is now in order for the sisters to elect
a President to preside over this Society and
let her choose two Counselors to assist in
the duties of this office. Counselor Isabella
West was chosen President, and a unani-
mous vote was taken to sustain her, with
Elizabeth Britton and Ellen Watson as
Counselors. Sister I. West was set apart
by Bishop J. E. Watson. Elizabeth Brit-
ton by Counselor Arnold Giauque, Ellen
Watson by Bishop Watson. The remaining
officers and members were sustained by a
unanimous vote.
	Sister May Peterson enrolled as a member.
Sister Alice Butterworth, Bella Pitts, Mary
Peterson appointed as block teachers, also
sustained in that position.
	Bishop J. F. Watson said the Society is
now declared organized, in selecting your
President, it meets with the hearty approval
of the Bishop. Instructed Sister West to
preside in kindness, to create that love
amongst her sisters that emanates from
God. Seek wisdom from Him, be dictated
by His Spirit, said the sisters should be
united, willing and ready to assist President
West, and perform their labors faithfully.
“May the Lord bless, unite and strengthen
those who are called to preside.”
	Counselor A. G. Giauque said“the Relief
Society is one of the grandest institutions on
the earth. The world is patterning after us
in these things. Societies and charitable
instutions are in many parts of the world
for the benefit of the poor. The teachers of
our Relief Society everywhere are like angels
of mercy, speaking words of comfort, minis-
tering to the sick and needy, those who are
sick need the faith and prayers of such, when
the body is weak, the mind is also weak
and such need the faith of those who ad-
minister to them. Those who are called to
preside need our faith and prayers." Gave
much good connsel.
	Bishop J. E. Watson sustained the re-
marks of Counselor Giauque they emanated
from our Heavenly Father. Brother
Giauque was a young man ever ready and
willing to do his duty.
	Pres. Isabella West said, “my heart is to
full for many words. I feel the responsi-
bility of my position, I feel like a little
child, of myself I can do but very little,
my sisters I ask you to be one with me. I
ask the Lord to give me wisdom that I may
be able to fill my position with honor and
integrity. In my choice of Counselors I
feel to love all my sisters, have no fault to
find. May our Heavenly Father bless us
that we may be a band of sisters williug to
do our part.
	Brother Snarr, reminded us that we had
made sacred covenants to sustain those who


are called to preside over us. Spoke of the
teachers who were called to visit the sisters,
instructed them to pray with them when
they visited them on their various blocks.
Take words of kindness with them; get
them to attend their meetings; teach the
young the truths' of the gospel, to be in-
dustrious, economical, as well as as receiv-
ing their offerings for the poor.
	Brother Latham, had known many of the
sisters who were here to day over 30 years,
knew them to be women of God, they have
been faithful to their trust, said "I pray my
Father to bless those who are called to pre-
side, also every officer and member of this
Society. The teachers should carry the
Gospel when they visit, let your mission be
one of peace look after the poor, spiritually
as well as temporally, teach the young, ex-
plain to them the principles of truth that
they may not be led away by the allurements
of youth."
	President Christina Thompson of Eden
being present said, "I was with the sisters
of the 6th Ward at their first organization,
was present at the reorganization and to day
meet with them, to participate in this re-
organization. I was called to preside over
the Primary Association of Eden, which
position I held for seven years; have since
been called to preside over the Relief
Society of that place,still hold that position.
I merely speak of these things, that you may
know I am one with you in the church and
kingdom of God. Meeting adjourned by
singing, "O, my Father." Benediction
pronounced by Counselor Arnold G.
Giauque.
				E. W. CONDIE Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

SUFFRAGE SPEECH.

[Delivered before the Suffrage Association
of Provo.]
	No education is considered quite complete
in modern times that has not been enriched
by a broad general understanding of the
principles and civil powers of the govern-
ment under which the individual may live,
and the duties of citizens toward that gov-
ernment. The exercise of authority, the
making and administering of laws, restraint,
control, direction and regulation, by the state
of its citizens. How and where the state
secures or derives its powers and by learn-
ing the source and extent, know what the
sacred rights of the individual are.
	This applies to women as well as men,
and no amount of merely ornamental ac-
complishments quite atones for the absence
of the deep under strata of power and duty
developed by the study of that science, up-
on which rests the entire fabric of civiliza-
tion.
	From text books we learn that the State
derives its powers from God and is answer-
able to Him for the exercise of that power.
No doubt, many of you will be surprised to
hear this, for a large number of those en-
gaged in pulling the ropes, and guiding the
ship of State have conducted their affairs as
if they had received their power from Sheol
instead, and that the governor of that place
had an appointive power, and unless they
conducted their business in harmony with
the policy of the chief executive they
might be asked to resign.
	The term civil government includes all
the forms of artificial regulation, that re-
strains or protects, and punishes. Absolute
monarchies, limited monarchies, Republics,
Democracy, and other forms. The govern-

[Column 2]

ment of the United States is at present half
Republican in form, as the men choose
periodically their representatives, both as to
the law making body and the chief execu-
tive. To be a pure Democratic the whole
body of the people would have to meet to
pass laws, which is not possible in any but a
small state. The government of some of the
early English colonies were of this sort.
	Human beings are social and a law of
their nature compels them to live together
in communities, and being selfish and wick-
ed, must be subject to control and restraint.
When the people in a certain given district
organize themselves for this purpose they
become a State, and the authority which
they exert either directly or through chosen
representatives, is civil government. This
government derives its powers from the
State (which is the people) and is answer-
able to the people; this is true of the gov-
ernment under which we live, with the ex-
ception of Territories, and women; in study-
ing this science of power, many have mis-
taken politics for civil government, and
some of the privileged class of male voters
who think they know enough to make laws
for all humanity, have talked to me as if
they thought parliamentary rules was civil
government.
	A great many of our bright young people
have begun their studies laboring under
various hallucinations, which is greatly to be
deplored as it has a tendency to degrade the
sentiments of purity, honor and even vener-
ation with which the subject should be ap-
proached. Wherever the interests of per-
sons, or parties, are appealed to instead of
patriotism and honor, the tendencies are de-
grading; local elections,or the heated debates
and inflammatory speeches during political
campaigns are not the proper places in which
to imbibe the true spirit and genius of
the greatest government on earth. Men
are influenced by pressures of inherited
opinions sectional prejudice and motives of
sordid interest, and often by individual hate
and malice, according to their different tem-
peraments, teachings and occupations.
Among these the strongest and most lasting
influence is that which a youth imbibes day
after day at the traditional fireside, which is
more often the dining table in his father's
house and over which his mother presides.
If there he learns that a man who owns
sheep must be a Repubiican, because there
is to be undue advantages given to that
particular class, or that the man who labors
with his muscle must be a Democrat be-
cause that party are pledged to squeeze capi-
tal in the interests of the indigent no mat-
ter why they are so; if he hears his father
say he will vote for a base immoral man be-
cause he is smart and can push the interests
of his party, or that he will vote against a
good officer, and a good man because he
differed with him on some trivial question
of, perhaps, a personal nature, indelible
reasons, imprinted on the minds of the chil-
dren who sit silent perhaps, but drinking in
every word, and absorbing the spirit as well.
First they learn that parties are something
like an unarmed banditti preying without
honor on each others interests, that occupa-
tion, and not deep rooted conviction of
principle shall decide party fealty, that per-
sonal interests and even personal prejudices
are to be considered before the conscientious
duty of a citizen. They learn that intellect
is necessary to success but not moral charac-
ter, and that the gratifying of some paltry
personal revenge is far superior to the duty
one owes his fellow citizens and conntry.

[Column 3]

Again our debating schools and clubs of
various kinds are mainly devoted to study-
ing parlimentary rules, and how to conduct
debates, rather than to that class of knowl-
edge which should precede it. Those who
have been observant have here detected a
tendency rather to study such points as
would serve to overreach and harass an
opponent, than to understand how to con-
duct the business of a public meeting with
justice to all, and the greatest possible dis-
patch.
	Studies pursued with these motives in-
stead of broadening and deepening the un-
derstanding, and justifying the judgment,
are oftener a hot-bed in which plots are
propagated, schemes sprouted, and trickery,
chichanery and fraud nourished into ma-
turity.
	Ladies are supposed to know little or
nothing of government or kindred subjects;
but many realize that even if they were never
to vote it would still be necessary for them
to understand a great deal about the gov-
ernment under which they are to live, for
the law like nature, makes no allowance for
ignorance or mistakes. It presumes every
person to be acquainted with its provisions,
which is really a great piece of presumption
when it is remembered that till within a few
years women were excluded from law
schools.
	This government was not a new idea
built up without a precedent, nor yet a com-
plete perfect and finished thought; but those
who laid its broad and strong foundations
were familiar with the theories and results
of other governments, and while from the
rich sources of the past they built the best
possible structure for the present, they look-
ed to future generations, when theory had
become practice to improve, modify and
perfect it.
	There is nothing in the constitution that
a careful study will not reveal in the great
MAGNA CHARTA, wrested by the English
Barons, from King John in A. D. 1215.
And there is nothing in human law, that is
just and meritorious that the seed thought
from where it sprung can not be found in
that great charter, given by God to the
Children of Israel amidst the thunders of
Mt. Sinai.
	If the sacredness of the duty, the grand-
eur of the trust devolving upon each person
is once thoroughly impressed upon the un-
derstanding, it clears the brain of the vapors
and smoke of conflict, lifts the motives out
of the slums and bogs of local personal
matters, and enables the happy possessor to
see the grand results, beyond the depth of
narrower conceptions.
	Again I say if woman were never to have
a vote, or attend a primary meeting, she
should still know a great many things per-
taining to this subject. For instance: why
the United States did not remain under the
rule of Great Britain. Why the great en-
deavor of the patriot fathers seemed to be to
throw the safe guards of government and
privilege around the individual. Why
women were not named as citizens with all
the rights, duties, and privileges which
that word represents in a political sense,
when the United States was first declared
free and independent.
	Why the powers of government and
divided with such nice discrimination
between Congress, the Supreme Court, the
President and the people; so that power
must answer to power for the trust reposed
in it. The relations of States to each other,
and to the general government, and how


their relations differ from those of Ter-
ritories. Our policy toward foreign
countries, the manner of raising money to
meet the enormous expense of keeping the
machinery running smoothly.
	Perhaps the best plan of studying politi-
cal history is to read the biographies of
some of our noblest statesmen, making
them models rather than nearer and living
heroes whose after acts may not be in ac-
cord with ideals.
	When the pupil has progressed thus far
and learned that there is no such thing
whatever as a confered right, that no law
or set of laws, no men or set of men can
originate justice, but can at least only lay
straight lines to prevent the trespass of
private opinion, and ruthless power from
God given rights, then men begin to be fit
to participate in caucuses and women to
teach their children.  "Fair rights are ante-
cedent to constitution and law and are only
protected thereby."
	There is no danger in these broader walks
of falling into narrow and personal channels,
the mud of which clings to so many of our
politicians.  The study of government is
refined, enobling and grand in and of
itself, and do not let the sneers of those who
have befouled the stream, prevent you
from slaking your divine thirst at the crystal
spring of Constitutional Government.
				ELLEN JAKEMAN.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


N.A. W. S. A.

[To the Friends and Members of the N. A.
		W. S. A.]
	During the Columbian Exposition, daily
noontide meetings in the interest of equal
suffrage and the advancement of the cause
of women will be held in an auditorium in
tile Exposition gronuds.
	These meetings which are, of course, to
be free are to be under the management of
the Columbian Exposition Committee: you
are asked for aid. You will see that in
carrying on such an extensive work, we
cannot undertake to pay speakers either for
expense or any fee, so that we must appeal
for help to all speakers upon subjects con-
nected with the “Woman’s Question” in
the most comprehensive meaning of that
phrase.
	Will each interested person who reads
this notice kindly make it a point to send
to me at once the names and addresses of all
speakers of her acquaintance who have ex-
pressed an intention to visit the fair, to-
gether with the dates and length of time
which they will be there. These lists will
help the committee to arrange its program,
and the former will be doubly valuable if
received promptly.
			RACHEL FOSTER AVERY,
		Ch. Columbian Exposition Committee,
	Somerton Philadelphia,


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE Daughters of the American Revolu-
tion in Washington will have a portrait of
Mrs. Harrison painted for the White House
Gallery.
	THE political superiors of women in New
York are reported as registering some of
them eighteen times, some of them even
forty times apiece.—Ex.
	THE Woman's Century is the name of a
new weekly paper to be issued in Weimar,
Germany, in recognition and furtherance of
the progress of women in that country.


THE XXVth Annual Meeting of the
National American Woman Suffrage Associ-
ation will be held in Washington, D. C. in
Metzerott's Music Hall, January 15, 16, 17,
18, 19, 1893.
	REV. Anna Howard Shaw, Vice President
-at-Large of the National American Woman
Suffrage Association, was appointed Frater-
nal Delegate to the National Woman's
Christian Temperance Union Convention
which convened in Denver, Colorado, Oc-
tober 28th, to November 2nd.
	Various articles in the public press indi
cate a misconception of the work of the
Woman Suffrage in the country.  A num-
ber of newspapers speak of "The Woman
Suffrage Candidate for the Presidency of
the United States."
	The National Association of the Woman
Suffrage Workers, the National American
Woman Suffrage Association, though its
work is of a political nature, is not a politi-
cal party and has not nominated any candi-
date for the presidency.
			RACHEL FOSTER AVERY.
				Cor. Sec. N. A. W. S. A.


OBITUARIES.

Editor EXPONENT:
	DIED at Union, Salt Lake Co. Sept. 4th 1892,
Sister Grace Bagnley, of paralysis; she was a
member of our Relief Society.  For some time
past she has been a great sufferer yet so patient,
she partially lost her eye sight which was a great 
trouble to her; she closed her eyes in sleep thirty
hours before she breathed her last and never
opened them again; thus to the faithful Saint death
was only transition.  She was the beloved wife of
Thomas Bagnley who is left to mourn her loss;
she was the mother of nine children five of whom
are gone to the Spirit World to receive her, and
four are left to mourn her loss here, a son and
three daughters, she was surrounded by her
family and all that loving hands could do was
done for her.
	So death is but the wintry snow,
		Which veils the spirit's bloom,
	That soon with radiant life shall glow,
		Enfranchised from the tomb.
							M. A. SMART.

	On the first of Oct. 1892 we were called upon
to mourn the loss of a dearly beloved sister and
member of our Relief Society of Samaria Idaho.
Sister Jane Price, was born in the Parish of
Handilorvan, Brecon Shire, South Wales, March
1822 and baptised into the Church of Jesus Christ 
of L. D. S. in the year 1850; was the wife of John
Price and emigrated to this place in June, 1874,
with her husband and one son.  In her native
country her home was ever open to the Elders on
missions, and many will remember the kind treat-
ment received from her hands. Being of a
sympathetic nature she was much beloved by all
who knew her.  For a number of years she has
been second Counselor to the President of the
Relief Society which position she honorably filled.
At her funeral the R. S. followed the remains to 
the meeting house, from which place it was fol-
lowed, after services, to the grave yard by numer-
ous friends and relatives from all parts of the
valley, there to sleep in peace until the resur-
rection day.
			MARY D. DAVIS,
				Pres. of the R. S. of Samaria.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT TO THE MEMORY OF
			BROTHER DANIEL GRAVES:

[Adopted at a meeting of the Local Board Silk
		Ass'n. Provo City, Oct. 24th, 1892.]
	INASMUCH as our esteemed and respected
Brother Daniel Graves departed this life Oct. 15th
1892; at the great age of eighty six years and hav-
ing been acquainted with him very many years
we feel to honor his memory as a faithful and con-
sistent Latter Day Saint, zealous in the cause of
home industries fully realizing the benefit thereof
to the community, and also having been engaged
with him in the Silk Industry in this county, we
recognize his unbounded zeal and perseverance
for he labored long and earnestly in SERICUTURE,
and his works will follow him, and withal he was


dignified and honored in the position; though not
possessed of great earthly wealth. He was one
of nature’s noblemen, was intelligent in a high de-
gree, and conversant with the manners and cus-
toms of men and quite a scholar of the age to
which he belonged; he will assuredly rank with
the intelligent in heaven.
	The silk mission was given him by Pres. Brig-
ham Young and almost his last breath was uttered
in the silk interest showing his unceasing ef-
forts.
	Resolved, that we cherish his memory and
emulate his example.
	Father Graves was a promoter of agricultural
pursuits and a staunch supporter of the same.
He also planted the trees from which his coffin
was made a black walnut, and which he had cut
down and dried and seasoned preparatory to the
time when it would be needed. Resolved that
these resolutions be placed upon our record and
published in our local papers also in the EX-
PONENT he being well known among the sisters
having solicited their assistance many times in the
Silk Industry.
	We affectionately subscribe our names M. A.
Till Prest. Sarah B. Sanders, Sarah Goodman
Counselors, Matilda Olsen Secy. Mary J. John
Treas. Harriet Sawyer, Johanna Patten, Jane
Lewis, Cornelia Scott, Barbara Seilck, Celestia
Strong.
				   MATILDA OLSEN Secy.


Class in Obstetrics.
DR ROMANIA B. PRATT
Will commence another Class in Obstetrics
about NOVEMBER 15. A few situations
for Nurses are open in the hospital.
	For further information inquire of DR.
PRATT, Deseret Hospital. 

DOCTOR MATTIE HUGHES CANNON,
	Office: 11 South, First West Street.
Office practice for Diseases of Women from 2
     until 4 p. m.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
	Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
AND STATIONAERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, Lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmedt
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
	No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
 Three doors west of Theatre.

	MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p.m. 

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FOR[--]
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
he country promptly responded to.
	AVD JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CIY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENET.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 21			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1892.			NO.11


THE GREEN STREET.

OF the ways I wandered o'er
In enchanted days of yore—
I love best a verdant street
Traversed by my childish feet.

It was long, and straight, and wide—
Grass grown thick on either side
Of a road that ran between—
Slim gray rill through shores of green.

On one side a low stone wall
O'er whose rim the rise and fall
Of the wheat-fields tidal—flow
Shimmered in the summer's glow.

And along their outer edge,
Leaning on the wall's slim ledge—
Near the gaps by bold hands made
In some well requited raid—

Peach trees—pink with spring's pale flush,
Or with ripe fruits crimson blush
Made a still, sweet, stir of bloom
In the street's green-silenced gloom.

I have trod it oft at dawn,
When along its way were drawn—
At my fancy's beckonings—
Cavalcades of queens and kings;

Princes proud, and barons bold,
With a blaze of green and gold—
Come in pomp of princely state
All to make my day elate.

Then at twilight I have known
Every mound and hollow grown
Populous with elfin throngs,
Holding fete with dance and songs.

But the eerie shades of night
Made the streets a place of blight
Sprites of doom and shapes of dread
Trod its thorough fare instead.

Oft our childish steps have stayed
Long without the lonely glade
Faltering long, in doubt to choose
In the dusk's conjuring hues—

Human foes that ambushed lay
In the street to bar our way—
Or those things of darker fear,
Rustling in the cornfield near,—

Which our shrinking forms must brush
Should we brave its vibrant hush:—
Shapes that kept our way beside
As we swam the wheats' deep tide—

Counting every yard a league,
Bristling thick with still intrigue—
Ere we reached all safe and whole
Fond home-roof that made our goal.

[column 2]
Gray old roof! thy gables too,
Knew the streets' familiar view—
Glimpsing through intricacies
Of the tall box-elder trees.

And thy many porches made
Grateful gift of snmmer shade
At the end of its green path
Bare in sunshine's amber bath.

Some few rods from off the road
That green orchard forest showed
At whose edge a long path wound
To the homestead's farthest bound;—

Down beyond the barn, whose walls
Saw our grayest festivals;—
To the spring, whose crystal tent
Pitched amid the field's extent

Drew the hordes of rushes tall—
Sweet-briar-wild-rose-bush, and all
The lank grasses there to drink
At this silver-bubbled brink.

Childhood's homel how fond and fast
Memories of thy ways file past
My heart's open window-pane,
Bringing back thy days again.

Years have passed; the verdant street,
Worn with tread of many feet,
Lies—a dusty, common way—
Beaten down from green to gray.

Now a depot's busy mart
Claims the orchard's quiet heart;
Where the wheat-wands waved, there lies
A prone field of steels and ties—

In whose maze, with hootings dire,
Gowlish things with eyes of fire—
Serpent-shapes, with dragon guide,
Day and night unceasing glide.

But no longer in the dawn
Princely retinues are drawn;
And no rush of fairy feet
Fill the spaces of the street.

Passed the quaint and quiet life,—
Blotted out in noise and strife;—
And the romance of its time
Shut in these blind walls of rhyme.
				JOSEPHINE SPENCER.


CONTENTS:
	In Rural England. Social Re-uninon. N.A.
W.S.A. A Trip to England. U. W. P. Club
Woman's Work on the Sandwich Islands. A 
Pleasant Journey—Ellis R. Shipp, M. D. Physio-
logical Lecture—Martha Keeler. W. S. A. Salt 
Lake Co. Notes and News. Obituariy. Eleanor
Cottrell Martyn. 
	EDITORIAL.—Women and the World's Fair.
Editorial Notes. A Happy Event. Wedding Bells.
	POETRY.—The Green Street—Josephine Spen-
cer. Only a Year Ago—Hyacinth.


IN RURAL ENGLAND.
				XXVI.
	THE sacred ceremony performed, the try-
ing ordeal passed, Uncle Rob giving the
bride away, and the leave-takings over—the
grand old family coach was at the door with
its handsome white horses and appurtenances
for it bore the "Walton Arms."  Lady An-
na who was still Lady Anna in her beauti-
ful personality with all the sweetness and
grace of her own dear self—without so
much as a wedding breakfast (as in these 
days) was  handed to a seat in the coach of
Lord Walton's family; young Walton the
proud bridegroom following in haste, as
though afraid at the last moment of losing
his prize.  Mrs. Bland wept profusely, she
had never shed so many tears since her
mother's funeral.  She could scarcely ac-
count for it herself and her husband was
very much annoyed.  Uncle Rob thought

[Column 2]
it uncalled for, and Clair who sympathized
most with her, wondered why she should 
weep like that when his own grief was quite
as real although not so demonstrative.
	Lady Anna was perfectly happy; she was
not one who cared much for wealth and
popularity, nor did she know how necessary
it was to her happiness and well-being in
society.  She had never yet comprehended
those great and homely truths that so affect
our lives temporally viz. the social con-
ditions.
	In the possession of her heart's desire, the
wife of the man of her choice, this innocent-
minded young maiden felt such perfect hap-
piness and security, that all else and all
other friends, home, the paternal mansion,
and its associations were momentarily for-
gotten. Her parting from cousin Jane to
whom she owed so much was as nothing
at such a time but to Jane Bland it was
painful.  She did not even remember that
her destination would be among Clair's
native mountains, she only rejoiced in the
beautiful present, perhaps it was as well;
yet it was painful to those who were left be-
hind, who loved her for herself, her native 
goodness, her personal worth and genuine
qualities.  The servants threw pecks of rice
after her and the old honse-keeper sent not
only an old shoe flying after her, but horse-
shoes as well, even more than one.
	After the coach had gone quite out of
sight, and the relatives of the family of the
late Baronet had spent themselves in gossip
about the affair, the breakfast was an-
nounced and Uncle Rob, Clair, Doctor
Bland and wife, the Bishop and Rector with
all the guests from a distance, including
Lady Walton, and some of the Walton
relatives, gathered around the table, to par-
take the wedding feast.  Gloomy enough
too for the absence of the bridal party cast a
shadow over the sumptuous morning meal,
even though all present seemed anxious to
make the best of it.  A strange melancholy
settled down upon the company, and not all
the witticisms and reminiscences of the
older relatives could dispel the settled con-
viction that many of them seemed to feel
that the change now made, would not be
the only radical one within a short time.
The subject of the future being brought up
each one seemed willing to respond or to
give an opinion and the universal verdict
was that never again would they meet in
that old ruin; many things pointed in the
direction of some new and unknown
changes, that were incomprehensible, a
quiet observer might see several of those
most interested, had strange presentiments in
regard to the future.
	The wedding breakfast over, the party
gathered in the drawing-room and conver-
sation became more general.  A bright fire
of hard wood glowed cheeringly and lighted
up the heavy dark mahogany furniture and
sombre wainscoted walls.  Wine, fruits and
nuts were upon the table, for dessert was to
be served there that the servants and old
retainers might come in to partake the
breakfast, perhaps it was the exhilaration of
the wine that made the company grow fam-
iliar and loosed their tongues.  Uncle Rob


Harrison appealing to Mrs. Bland inquired
her view of the condition of the family and
the Castle and also of Clair’s leaving it to
go abroad with him. “And where would
you wander, and how long keep him from
home, it seems to me a young man just en-
tering upon the duties of a vast estate, has
obligations to fill that require close atten-
tion, a year or two hence he might be bet-
ter prepared, when he has repaired the
house and made himself familiar with the
position he is to occupy in public life.”
	The reply was, “Now is his time he is
free and untrammelled in every way, he is
totally unfit as far as experience goes and
would possibly make some serious mistakes,
having no adviser to look into his affairs
and give counsel, and the lodgekeeper who
knows every foot of the place could manage
as he did in your Uncle’s time, and when
Clair has had the advantage of travel and
observation, he will have greater influence
in the County and be more of a man among
men, at present he is only an inexperienced
stripling.”
	“Yet he is older than Anna who has as-
sumed a position of such vital importance,
my heart goes out to her in tender pity,
and some way I cannot help feeling how
much she needs a woman’s advice, dear
Anna she is one of the most dependent
creatures, and has less idea of the world
than any girl I have ever seen, she is im-
pulsive and generous, trusts implicitly where
she has given her confidence, and I tremble
for her reason, were she deceived by one
she loved and believed in.”
	“You speak as though you entertained
positive fears of evil, is not young Walton
the soul of truth and honor, would he de-
ceive or wrong a woman; If I had any
doubts of his devotion, I would never have
given that innocent, confiding,young cousin
of mine into his care I assure you Mrs.
Bland. I love her as my own sister or
daughter, I will see to it that her happiness
is not wrecked as I live,’’and so excited did
he become that Jane Bland feared the Wal-
tons, who were at the other side of the long,
low room would hear the remark. Dr.
Bland who had remained silent until then,
broke in saying, “It is only the sadness of
the farewell that has wrought upon my
wife’s emotions Mr. Harrison it causes to her
look upon the dark side, she loved Anna
with her whole soul, so much indeed that
she almost felt it wrong to have a home of
her own. I had hard work to persuade her
that she needed companionship; her life
here was very exciting, and she is of a
nervous and susceptible as well as emotional
temperament.”
	Finding her husband so good a champion
Mrs. Bland left him the field with Mr.
Harrison, and turning to Clair asked him
where they intended going. “To the West
Indies I believe "he replied as Mr. Harrison
has seen the East Indies he seems anxious
now to explore the West."
	"And are you sure you can endure all sorts 
of weather like one used to all climates?"
"Now don't begin to worry over me, I'll 
take chances; I could go anywhere with such 
a friend, and he is so lonely I'm sure he has 
had some great sorrow in his life, been de-
ceived by a woman perhaps."
	"Don't say that Clair, don't become em-
bittered toward the other sex through a 
misanthrope, I hope you will marry some 
genuinely good young girl, and rebuild 
this castle, it would be so much better for 
all the people around and for your cousin 
too who would be so much happier to see a

[column 2]
little life in the dear old place, I have a
particular regard for this old ruin notwith-
standing its dilapidated condition, and all
the changes that have transpired.”
	“If I return safe, of which I have no
doubt, I will gratify you as far as the old
ruin is concerned, and make myself as
popular as possible with the people here-
abouts; entertain in a hospitable fashion
and keep up a style becoming the dignity of
the Hilliard estate.”
	“And perpetuate the ancestral name and
title cousin Clair, you are the last in the
male line of the name, and I have some
pride in that matter, it being my mother’s
name, and she thought it one of the best old
English names in the realm, and often told
me of her great grandfather Hilliard who
was one of the old feudal Baron’s and kept
his strongholds and drawbridge and
brooked no interference from the Knights
and Lords who encountered his dis-
pleasure.”
	The morning wore away and the Wal-
tons and all other guests took their leave;
Dr. and Mrs. Bland lingered later and
finally bade a reluctant goodbye to Clair
and Uncle Rob who were to leave for Lon-
don the next morning. It was the last
family party that ever assembled in that old
mansion, where generation after generation
had been born and bred and gone forth
to make a place in the world. Often Jane
Bland had reflected on the past,her mother’s
youthful days in that once palatial place,
now so ruined and desolate. Frequently
after it was entirely deserted except by the
people in charge, Mrs. Bland would stroll
thro’ the grounds and venturing in would
make a tour of the empty rooms recalling
the visions of the shadowy past, and in her
happier moods the halcyon days of yore,
when gaiety and festivity held sway
That last morning made an impression upon
Rob Harrison and Clair that they never for-
got in after years.


﻿WOMANS EXPONENT.


SOCIAL REUNION. 

	THE first social reunion under the direc-
tion of the newly-elected officers of the “P.
C.W. P. A.” occurred Monday last. The
programme was in the care of the new chair-
man of the Programme Committee, Miss
Adeline E. Knapp of the “Call.” She proved
the right one in the right place, and further
demonstrated what brilliant achievements
lie in the wake of journalistic leadership.
The social was well attended and voted a
pronounced success, a feature of it being
the bright, spirited papers that aroused good
fellowship, rather than a vein of gloomy
reminiscent adventures that only revive hid-
eous nightmares. The opening address was
by the president, Emily Browne Powell,
her subject being the origin of clubs. In
her own racy descriptive style she carried
her hearers to “The Mermaid Inn,” where
Shakespere and kindred spirits made their
rendezvous and in social enjoyment coined
gems of imperishable thought that survives
them as monuments of their genius. Terse-
ly she reviewed the growth of clubs, es-
pecially calling attention to women’s first
venture in that line, and closed only too
soon her interesting discourse with a hope
and abiding faith that their future would be
a never-ending success. At the conclusion
of that address and the social, which she
managed with parliamentary dignity, the
association felt more assured than ever that
their choice of executive officer could not


be improved. Adeline E. Knapp, chairman
of the Programme Committee, made a neat
address in assuming the responsible position
confided to her, and outlined her policy for
her period of office. She declared she
would prohibit the airing of fads for the
selfish enjoyment of perhaps a few at the
skirmishing for literary or eccentric lions to
show our prowess we had in trapping such
curiosities, knew the association had suf-
ficient talent to entertain and proposed using
it. Her address was well received and her
ideas generously applauded. Mrs. Hannah
Neal gave reminiscences of Whittier, her
tribute being that he was sinless, spotless,
immaculate. Miss Kelly Kesher delivered
a bright descriptive piece, “Kentucky
Belle,” with dramatic effect and pleasing
manner. Mrs. Helen G. Fisher spoke of
the vicissitudes of a literary profession, and
with heroism said every disappointment
nerved her to greater exertion, and always
ended in accomplishing her aim.  The re-
view was enjoyable and entertaining. A
bulletin issued monthly, containing a record
of the workings of the members is a sug-
gestion of Miss Knapp’s that will ere long
know fruition. If the success of this, the
first social, presages the future, our club-
room will scarce accommodate the guests
seeking cards of admission.—The Journalist.


N. A. W. S. A.

	The XXV Annual Meeting of the
National American Woman Suffrage As-
sociation will be held in Washington, D. C.,
January 15-19 in Metzerotts Music Hall
on F. St. This beautiful new hall seats
about fifteen hundred people, and in ad-
dition to this hall for the evening meetings,
we have the use of a smaller hall in the
same building for our delegate sessions and
Executive sessions. The advantage of this
will be readily seen by those who remember
the discomforts of last year when the ban-
ners placed for the State delegations had to
be removed in the evenings.
	Dr. Buckley has been invited by the pro-
gram Committee to the Convention, and it
is greatly to be regretted that he cannot be
n duced to accept the invitation.
	Hon. Carroll D. Wright has accepted an
invitation to be present at the XXVth An-
nual Convention of the National American
Women Suffrage Association, and will speak
on women in industry. His well known
interest in this subject and his ability to
present the same, makes him a valuable
acquisition to our program. Rev.  David
Gregg of Brooklyn has been invited to
speak also.
	The Trunk Line Association has granted
the reduction of a fare and a third for a
round trip over lines in their territory. For
further particulars concerning R. R. rates
please address the R. R. Secretary, Nicolas
Shaw, Somerton, Philadelphia.
	Mrs. Bessie Boon Cheshire is Chairman
of the Entertainment Committee, and Mrs.
Ella M. S. Marble, Chairman of the Com-
mittee on Local Arrangements. Both of
these ladies may be addressed, at the Head-
quarters, 1328 I. St., Washington, D. C.
			COR. SEC. N. A. W. S. A.


THE Woman's Chronicle thinks there
should be a crusade started “against the
supercilious manner in which the Associ-
ated Press dispatches report all meetings of
women."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ONLY A YEAR AGO.

The noon-day sun wends its golden way,
	Far across the deep'ning blue;
The twilight hour with its soft'ning ray,
	Imparts but a gentler hue.
Silently over the fading day,
	Unheedingly falls the dew,
Changing its robes to the somber gray
Of the by gone days I knew,
			Only a year ago.

Lonely and shrill rings the wild-bird's cry,
	Through autumnal trees so drear,
Making the shades of the dark'ning sky,
	Hasten the night hour so near.
Drearily, sadly the hours pass by,
	From the lone heart falls a tear,
For the shattered hopes that heavy lie,
	For the dreams I cherished dear,
			Only a year ago.

Gone! Gone! no longer the golden glow
	Through the dying day will dart;
And the zephyrs breathe in music low,
	A requium sad and short.
No more will the joys I longed to know,
	Cause the anguished tears to start;
The parting day bears with footsteps slow,
	All that clustered round my heart,
			Only a year ago.

Farewell! sweet dream, for the day is dead;
	'Twas by an icy blast slain;
Over the sorrowful hours now fled,
	Chant but this one sad refraim—
Farewell! Farewell! o’er the lonely bed,
	Where my cold withered hopes long have
		lain;
With nothing to mark the farewell said,
	That gave but shadows and pain,
			Only a year ago.

Tread softly around the new-made grave,
	With its buried contents deep;
Lift not the mantles that o’er it wave,
	The long, mournful watch to keep.
Would that my memory ceased to crave,
	And my heart forget to weep,
For the vanished year and all it gave,
	All I lost and sought to reap,
			Only a year ago.
							HYACINTH,
ALPINE, Nov. 1892.


[column 1]
A TRIP TO ENGLAND.

[Continued.]
	I always slept splendidly while on my
voyage, scarcely ever waking from the
time my head touched the pillow, until the
getting up bell sounded in the morning.
But the getting up, dressing and wash-
ing etc. was the performance that I did not 
enjoy. After a long and severe struggle
with myself I would conclude that it was
really time for me to leave my couch, or
sometimes Mrs. M. would come in to wish
me good morning, thus shaming me into 
leaving it, and I would forthwith proceed to
climb over the side of the berth on to the 
floor, where immediately, without any
effort whatever on my part, I was slid 
across the room to the little hard couch be-
fore mentioned, where my clothes were de-
posited, and if I was thoroughly awake and
ready for the sport, I might prove success-
ful in making a grab for them before slid-
ing back to the berth; but if perchance the
first time I made a misgrab, there was yet
another chance for me, as it would not be
more than a minute before I would find 
myself en route for the couch again, then to
the berth and then to the couch alternately.
	If my stomach had been in proper order,

[Column 2]
the performance might have been con-
sidered somewhat amusing, and I might 
perhaps have been fired with ambition to
become expert at dressing under trying cir-
cumstances, but as the matter stood, these
continued excursions back and forth, only
aggravated my condition, and I was obliged
every now and then to lie down during a 
number of these excursions. But even 
after the dressing part was accomplished,
it required a great deal of manoeuvering and 
holding on like grim death, to keep in one
place long enough to get washed; this
second performance completed a fresh start
must be made in order to get my hair
combed and twisted up in some style or
other, and after the whole fatiguing process
was gone through with, it required con-
siderable resolution to get upon deck in-
stead of giving in to the feeling of exhaus-
tion and lying down for an hour or two,
I always found my faithful companion 
waiting to offer his arm for a promenade 
when I put in an appearance on deck.
This refreshing exercise always produced
the desired effect, that of making me feel 
better. Whether rain or shine, calm or 
rough, a brisk promenade up and down the
deck, would never fail to revive us.
	All the passengers indulged in this exer-
cise and it was quite amusing to watch
them pair off two and two so long as the
ladies held out, but as there were more 
gentlemen than ladies, some of them must
necessarily be left without fair companions,
which fact caused a kind of rivalry between
them. 
	As the time passed on we became more
familiar with our fellow passengers; engag-
ing in conversation with some of them, and
learning bits of the biography of them all,
which proved to be quite interesting and 
altogether contained the necessary elements
of a modern romance.
	It has been observed by some wiseacre,
that "Truth is stranger than fiction," and
I am almost led to believe that it is verily
so.
	There was the young and apparently en-
thusiastic Baptist Minister who was bound
for a mission up the Congo river, I did not
envy him, tho' admiring his enthusiasm and 
devotion in the cause which he had es-
poused. Next, the stately sun-browned sea
captain who abstractedly paced the deck 
seemingly lost in meditation. We learned 
that his ship had been wrecked on the
Pacific ocean, his crew lost, while he himself 
barely escaped in a life boat to an island,
where he was forced to remain, like Robin-
son Crusoe, tho' happily not so long, until
a passing vessel should pick him up. He
had traveled across continent and was then
making his was homeward.
	Then there was the traveled English
gentleman whose roving propensities would
not permit him to remain contentedly at
home amid his family and friends in his 
native land far any length of time together.
He was then just fresh from Mexico, and
wore some odd Mexican arrangement made
of shell material which answered instead of 
an overcoat. He looked very dignified
with his grey hair and tanned skin, as he
too paced the deck, ever complaining of the
cold, while the rest of the passengers felt to 
rejoice as they basked in the warm rays of
the sun. There was also a young and in
his line, successful artist, who was return-
ing to home and mother in search of a heal-
ing balm to apply to a great wound lately
made by the one he had called wife.


She had eloped. with a, perhaps, "hand-
somer man," and not being satisfied with
leaving his bed and board, had endeavored
to wrest from the poor fellow, the greater
part of his worldly possessions, amounting
to $50,000.
	Of course we had only one side
of the story, and considering the circum-
stances, he certainly seemed remarkably
cheerfully and to all appearances enjoyed
himself as much as any one on board.
	We had also a very fair specimen of a
political sycophant, a mean groveling tool
used by any political schemer who would
reward his servility most liberally. At 
least this was the character deduced from
his own statements. He was on his way to
France, no doubt in the interest of some
scheme which would not bear the penetrat-
ing light of day upon it. His manner was
smooth and warm, greeting all the ladies
as if they were special friends.
	Another man was seeking the land of his
nativity to obtain if possible consolation for
the loss of his wife and five children who
had crossed the "Mystic River" but two 
months before, smitten by some epidemic
that had swept through New York.
	Next in order was the young English
dude after the Lord Dundreary style, who
was just returning from Florida where he
had lately superintended the setting out of 
an orange plantation. He also was the
happy posessor of a youthful crocodile with
which he often amused himself as well as 
some of the other passengers when he be-
come weary of the bar.
	Next to the dude, may be mentioned the
young Irishman with his wife and little son
whom they called Brewster. He was sup-
posed to be the younger son of an aristo-
cratic family, and though apparently possess-
ing not even ordinary attractiveness, he had
succeeded in procuring for his life's com-
panion, one of New York's heiresses, and
they were enroute for his estate in Ireland.
The ladies were a Miss S. who had been
visiting friends in America and was then
returning to her home in Scarsborough, to
her the good natured jolly Purser of the
boat paid his particular addresses, and the
political rogue when he had a chance.
	Mrs. B.—an ideal English woman with
plump rosy cheeks and splendid “sea legs”
as the captain would say, a picture of health
to all appearance but who nevertheless
posed as an invalid and was taking the
voyage for her health, with her high and
fiery tempered little daughter Elsie, who
cut up shines every once in a while.
	Miss E.—a young German girl from
New York, who had completely captivatee
the young Irish ship doctor, whose namd
was Fitzgerald; I found it highly amusing
to watch them from the corner of one eye,
as they indulged in their little tete a tetes
on the deck. Beside there was the consump-
tive man whose voyage terminated in the
great beyond; he was lowered in the mighty
deep.
	Captain Rigby, who hadn’t much to
say to any body, and the company of Mor-
mons consisting of five ladies and as many
gentlemen, completed the list of cabin
passengers. And doubtless our party fur-
nished as much food for reflection and cause
for amusement to the other passengers, as 
the said passengers furnished for us.


MISS FANNIE MITCHELL, of Athens, Ga.,
is writing a history of Athens during the civil
war.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street,
second gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	DECEMBER 1st, 1892.


WOMEN AND THE WORLD’S FAIR.
	THE World’s Fair work in Utah is pro-
gressing surely if not so rapidly as in some
other parts of the country. We hear good
reports of work, from some of the County
organizations, and the meetings are regular
and the women generally are becoming in-
terested as enthusiastic audiences testify.
Utah certainly should make a fine showing
in minerals, fruits, and in education proper,
and especially in the line of music. Un-
fortunately the mountains cannot be moved
thither, or the Lake either, and these being
the chief attractions of the country, places
Utah at a disadvantage, but surely there
must be some peculiar product, industry or
enterprise to represent that will bring
celebrity.
	However if it is but little that can be
done first and foremost let it be done well,
let quality and excellence be the criterion
instead of size or quantity. Remember
nothing shoddy, or of poor material, or in-
ferior work can pass muster. Bear this in
mind in all that is done.
	In Salt Lake County the committees in
the different departments of work and re-
search are pretty well organized, and con-
sist of some of the ablest and best informed
women in the City, and they certainly are
qualified to accomplish all it is possible to
do, to make a creditable representation of
whatever is suitable for the exhibit in the
Columbian Exposition. It should be the
ambition of every woman who loves her
country and her home to assist in this
laudable undertaking.
	The advantages it will give to women all
over the world cannot be too highly esti-
mated. Even in the little that has been
done here already one can see the awaken-
ing to thought, and the resolve to become
better educated individually and generally,
on all matters pertaining to the exhibits to
be made by the world at large, the history
of countries, and the laws and customs of
ancient and modern nations.
	This among women whose school days
are over, and who now actively engage not
only collecting material for exhibits, but

[Column 2]
knowledge of various things and kinds,
amounts to a diffusive strengthening of wo-
man’s powers that must necessarily result
in good. Every woman also who takes
hold of the work will be materially benefit-
ted, her views of mankind and womankind
enlarged, and her opinions broadened and
the standard of her judgment become bet-
ter and higher.
	This work is bringing women into a
nearness of contact that will increase con-
fidence, and a more universal sisterhood will
be established by the association and re-
lation of this vast army of workers.
	There is very little time left in which to
work, things have really been put off un-
til the eleventh hour, but it is to be hoped
though Utah may be late she will be fully 
equipped, and will receive her proportion of
the benefits of this occasion that marks the
centuries of progress as well as of time.
One of the greatest phenomena of the age
will be the immense strides made by women
in many, if not nearly all countries as com-
pared to the circumstances and conditions in
former times. In many branches of indus-
trial arts, in knowledge, scientific and use-
ful, or domestic, women are competing with
men and frequently excel, and the world
still remains in its sphere and orbit and is
not turned upside down, nor are the laws of
nature reversed.
	If anything could be said to more strong-
ly emphasize the fact of efficient and active
service for the public good in the World’s
Fair matters, we should be only too glad to
help push the enterprise forward; every in-
dividual woman, who has time and means
at her command should use her best en-
ergies to assist the movement and make
it a complete success, that she and all others
may look back upon the representation with
pride in after years.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	THE Relief Society Conference of this
Stake will be held in the 14th Ward Assem-
bly Rooms on Friday Dec. 16, 1892 com-
mencing as usual at 10, A. M. and at 2 p.
m. as this is an important time in view of
officers and members from all parts of the
county as possible, that the teaching and
instruction may be understood alike by all.
	A NUMBER of death notices and other
matter are again left out for want of space.
A story "Angelina" which is partly in type,
will appear in the Christmas number which
will be made as attractive as possible. The
World's Fair work in this Terriory, must
have place now as there is very little
time in which to accomplish a great deal.
From Sanpete County President we learn
that clubs have been organized in every town
and village. The women there intend to
keep up with the times. In West and
North Jordan these clubs have been or-
ganized and an appointment is out for Sandy
for Saturday Dec. 10. There are many


other places to be visited yet in this interest,
and it is desirable that the woman in each
locality do some thinking on their own ac-
count in order to dispatch the work after
the organization is effected.


U. W. P. CLUB.

	THE U. W. P. Club held its first an-
nual meeting Oct, 31st, Mrs. E. B. Wells
presiding. Prayer Dr. Romania. B. Pratt.
Roll call responded to by original verses;
minutes of the previous meeting read and
approved. Treasurer's report for the year
read and accepted. Unfinished business,
motto and badge; Mrs Fox's idea regard-
ing the same. A small medal the size of a
five dollar gold piece, with the initials U.
W. P. C. in raised letters on the surface,
and a small ring attached so that it might be
worn as a charm, or an attachment to breast-
pin or bracelet. Mrs. C. C. R. Wells sug-
gested a scroll to be used in the same way.
Subject left for farther consideration.
	Mrs. Georgianna Young and Dr. Maggie
C. Shipp were voted in as members of the
club.
	Officers for the ensuing year were then
sustained or elected in the following order.
Mrs. E. B. Wells President, Mrs. Phebe C.
Young first Vice President, Mrs. L. G.
Richards second Vice President, Susa V.
Gates, of Utah Co. and M. A. Y. Green-
halgh of Millard Co. Vice Presidents at
large, Miss Gladys Woodmansee Secretary,
Mrs. C. C. R. Wells Assistant Secretary, Mrs
Annie W. Cannon Cor. Secretary, Josephine
Spencer Ass't Cor. Secretary, Ruth M. Fox
Treasurer, Dr. R. B. Pratt Auditor.
	Notice was given of the intended amend-
ment of the constitution. Preliminary
business being disposed of, the programme
was carried out as follows: continuation of
"A Trip to England," by G. Woodmansee.
Humorous poem, composed and read by R.
M. Fox, original poem read by Josephine
Spencer.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells briefly spoke regarding
the general conduct of women during strikes,
and then read a letter from Dr. Ellis R.
Shipp, descriptive of her journey to Ann
Arbor, and named many of the interesting
and characteristic features of that University
town.
	Dainty refreshments were then partaken
of.
	Programme for next meeting continu-
ation of "A Trip to Alaska" Miss N. V.
Davis, poem R. M. Fox, Mrs. E. B. Wells
an article on "Halloween", Dr. Maggie
Shipp an article on "Thanks giving," Mrs.
Phebe C. Young on "Liberty Park"
Lillie Freeze an article on the "World's
Fair." Roll call to be responded to by
original sentiments. Benediction Mary
A. Freeze.


WOMAN'S WORK ON THE SAND-
WICH ISLANDS.
II
	WE procured a carriage at the wharf and
were on our way to the Branch President's
house, when a breakage in our vehicle
necessitated us trying our ability at pedes-
trianism in which we were successful, as
our attendants carried our luggage. It was
well we had prepared our minds for what-
ever we might have to endure else the ap-
pearance of our first stopping place might
have weakened our desire to continue on
our journey, knowing that this was the


[Column 1]

﻿largest and most modernly inhabited of any
village through which we were to pass—
but what was modern civilization to us at
that time; our visits were to those who have
been deprived of a knowledge of modern
improvements and who are content with
such comforts as nature herself provides.
And after carefully scanning the respective
corners of our bed in search of centipedes,
and feeling assured that mosquitoes would
be our worst torment (and we were told
that they were not bad in this district) we
enjoyed a sweet though short repose, feel-
ing grateful for such comfort as we were
receiving. The morning brought with it
rain instead of sunshine, which the natives
said, was like us, "a stranger" to the place;
but the heavens were pleased and showered
their blessings on the parched vegetation.
Our breakfast consisted of salt meat, onions
and poi, which we partook of gratefully if
not heartily, endeavoring to mold our fas-
tidious appetites to whatever was provided
for us. Many of the natives who had heard
of our arrival called to see us. The Presi-
dent of the R. S. Mrs. Lilia West
being one of the number. She had pre-
pared for us staying at her home and heed-
less of the torrents which continued to fall,
she and Kaluapalaoa, our native assistant,
went to procure a carriage for Sister Thur-
ber myself and baby, and soon we found our-
selves in more clean and comfortable quar-
ters; with a welcome that made us feel that
we were at home again. After partaking
of a nice warm meal in haole (white) style
we walked out to view the surroundings;
the rain had ceased and the sun was shining
brightly, and our present elevated situation
enabled us to overlook the entire village
from the calm capacious bay to the tower-
ing mountains of Mauna Kea, 13,805 feet
above sea level 'neath whose brow we were
now sheltered and Mauna Loa 13,650 feet
whose somber greatness together with the
picturesque town of Hilo slumbering in its
shades of foliage nestled low by the waters
edge with its rippling waterfalls glistening
in the sunlight, added to the novelty of the
scene. Oh the left is the famous pleasure
resort Halekainehe (house by the murmur-
ing sea) just opposite the pretty cocoanut
island a tempting place for an ideal seaside
home. How we strained our eyes with the
hopes of seeing just the smoke of the
famous volcano of Kilanea now thirty miles
nthe distance, and how we would have en-
joyed a trip there had we not felt that we
must be about our "Father's business."
The natives were busy in preparing for our
meeting on the morrow and the day passed
pleasantly in visiting, writing and in view-
ing the beauties of nature. Our meeting on
Saturday the 13th was attended with suc-
cess and the spirit manifest in appreciation
of our visit was very gratifying. At the
close of the meeting a native luan (feast)
was enjoyed by all present, a description of
which has often been given through the
columns of your paper. Early next mom
ing we mounted our horses in Hawaiian
style, and our company now seven in num-
ber commenced its arduous journey on
horseback. The town had a very pretty
appearance after the heavy rainfall and the
moss-covered rock wall around the Court-
house, and many of the old residences forci-
bly reminded me of Portland. The
Wailuku river which rises on Mauna Kea
and flows through the town has many
pretty tributaries which terminate in
waterfalls.
	The steel extension bridge across a

[Column 2]

picturesque little gulch which opens in a
small bay is a place of special attraction.
Here the natives were spending the Sab-
bath riding in on the breakers. The cane
fields begin at Hilo and are almost un-
broken for the next 90 miles. At ten
o'clock we were at Aleamai' where we
stopped and held meeting. The natives
were already awaiting our arrival, and
listened attentively to all that was said.
After meeting, fresh horses were procured
and we went on to Kahuwa a distance of
four miles commencing our journey over
the land of gulches. Our stopping place
was again far upon the mountain-side over-
looking the surrounding country which was
now one vast table-land sloping towards the
sea, and is much cut up with gulches.
The high altitude and bracing air sharp-
ened our appetites for poi and for the first
time we enjoyed it as well as our much
needed rest. The next day we held meet-
ing with the folks and as usual had to go
about a mile and a half to the meeting
house, after meeting we again enjoyed a
feast on the good things of Hawaii, and re-
turned feeling encouraged in our attempt to
arouse the sisters to a sense of duty. Next
morning with a fresh cavalry we started
out for a longer ride than usual fifteen
miles over tableland and through gulches
many of which are from 200 feet to 300 feet
high where the road crosses, extending al-
most perpendicularly, both above and below
the crossing, the road finding its difficult
way down the face of the pali. The water
used in the cane field on the tableland
above is carried over the gulches in flumes
of trussel work from five hundred to nearly
one thousand feet in highth, and they have
the appearance of net work across the
mouth of the gulch. The natural beauty
of these gulches cannot easily be described.
They are filled with tropical vegetation,
fern olia's kukui ti puhala, bread, fruit,
trees, etc. artistically arranged by nature's
hand.
	Night brought us to Veloka tired and
exhausted to a home where no food awaited
us, nor was it to be purchased at that place,
for exceptional to the rule there wdre no
stores in this vicinity, but I was too sick to
think about food. I asked for a bed, and
was glad, to have my request granted.
Kaluapalaua was troubled lest we should
suffer with hunger. We had a little con-
densed milk and a few crackers which we
had brought for baby, and which Sister
Thurber kindly prepared for him. He had
been without food since early morning, and
for the first time had cried with hunger and
fatigue. Kalua asked if we could eat such
as could be obtained. We told her we
could, and about nine o'clock a piece of half
cooked hee (devil fish) and a bowl of sour
poi was brought to our bedside. We were
glad when morning came, but were late in
getting started as horses were hard to catch.
We partook of such as was set before us
and were glad to again be on our journey.
Another fifteen miles over similar roads and
scenery brought us to Aleakili. We were
in hopes of meeting better accommodations,
but our experience taught us that where
there was no Relief Society, the people
were poorly prepared to care for those who
might travel among them, and through the
experience we had gained we brought with
us a little canned meat which with sweet
potatoes composed our supper. We ex-
pected a meeting with the sisters, but the
president of the branch, informed us they
had nearly all left, and the remainder so

[Column 3]

scattered that meetings could not be held.
We next went to Paauhau and enjoyed
meeting with the sisters. Our traveling
was becoming more practical and less
novel, but the scenery not less interesting.
In the morning we started again without
breakfast for an eight mile ride into the
Waipio valley. This is the first valley
since we left Hilo fifty-five miles behind.
This place is celebrated for its scenery. It
is about three fourth's of a mile in width,
and extends into the mountain about twenty
miles. The cliffs rise perpendicularly on
either side to a highth of three thousand
feet. The descent into the valley is by a
road three-fourths of a mile long, running
diagonally down the face of the pali. Over
these cliffs used to flow the waterfall Hilawe
1600 feet high, but the water is now car-
ried in pipes to the plantation Kukuihaele.
The manner in which we were, enter-
tained in this place would take time and
space to describe, but the best that was to
be had was at our disposal, and the sisters
vied in showing us respect. Our meeting
was well attended by both brethren and
sisters, and was one of the liveliest thus far
on our trip. Our evening was spent with
the village folks in listening to the sweet
songs of the young natives accompanied by
the guitars, and we could but say of
Waipio:—

The twilight approaches, all nature is lovely,
	Neither pencil nor pen can its beauty, portray,
The roar of the ocean, the waterfall's ripple,
	The lofty peaks hiding the sun’s latest ray.

The green beds of rice in the lois are growing,
	Nestled closely within the river's long bend,
The flowers are fragrant and great in abundance,
	A joy to our heart they ever will lend.

There are beauties of nature and grandeur sur-
		rounding.
	And scenes we'll remember in the future
		quite well;
But the grass hut before me all shattered and
		shabby,
	Is to me of more interest than to you I can
		tell.

It is there where the Elders have often been
		sheltered,
	Made welcome, and cheered in their labors
		of love;
By this same little flock, who now sit around us.
	I wonder if ever we'll meet thus above.

I deem it a privilege to my God I am, grateful,
	To travel the land where their feet have oft
		trod,
To lift up my voice with the same proclamation,
	Explaining the teachings of our Savior and
		God.

	To be continued.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A PLEASANT JOURNEY
------
	OFF on the Union Pacific at 6 p.m. off
in a rush and a whirl with scarcely time to
grasp the hands of our loved ones and bid
them a hasty farewell. On this particular
occasion the train seemed to start before any
one was ready, and such scrambling I never
witnessed before, some running to get on and
many trying to get off the train, and for a
time there was a conflict of the emotions
between the saddening sensations of parting
and the somewhat comical and exciting
manoeurves of those who feared they would
be left and those who were liable to leave
home thus uncerimoniously. But a few
moments sufficed to restore equillibrium, and
very soon with lightning-like rapidity we
are flying as on the wings of the wind,each
moment taking us farther from our loved
ones, away from our mountain home and
the sacred associations and the sweet and
peaceful scenes of our childhood. The sad-


[Column 1]

﻿dening almost sickening depression of our
departure was intensified by evening's deep-
ening gloom. Dusky shadows crept close-
ly upon us, enveloping with sombre mantle
the forms of our fellow-passengers. But
ere long the brilliant electric light sent
forth its cheering rays and we endeavored to
collect our thoughts while the brain kept
time to the monotone of human voices, and
the grinding of iron wheels; occasionally we
were started from our reverie by the shrill
voice of the iron horse as it galloped fierce-
ly along through hamlet and City, over
valley and plain now toiling up the moun-
tain side and again winding through the
canyon gorgelong after we were snugly
tucked in our berths did the tempestuous
whirlings of the brain endeavor to keep
pace with the swiftly moving train.
	At last weary nature found repose we
slept till the morning dawned, and as we
looked from our windows,what a transition.
No longer could we behold the fertile fields
and waving trees of the land of our choice—
only barren hills and plains with an oc-
casional glimpse of a railroad town to break
the monotony. As we gaze we retrospect—
and remember that travelers in this region
did not have even these oaseses to greet them
in their weary pilgrimage—methinks I see
even now the old covered wagons with one
two or perhaps three yoke of oxen and their
faithful drivers tramping along-side So of-
ten exhausted and foot-sore but always un-
complaining and cheerful, the good wife
sitting in the front end of the wagon sew-
ing or knitting while several children amus-
ed themselves in their narrow home over
the rough unbroken roads. Along the
narrow defiles up the steep mountain side
and oftimes fording the deep swift run-
ning stream—slowly tediously plodding day
after day, sometimes traveling only thirty
miles or less from early morn till close of
day and oftimes a whole week of such days
would pass without even a glimpse of hu-
man habitation.
	Denver is the first city of any moment,
but as we stop but a few minutes there is
no time for sight-seeing.
	Just before reaching Kansas City we pass
through more fruitful scenes and we begin
to see wherein man might make a comfor-
table livlihood by tilling the soil, and our
tired eyes are rested by sight of bountiful
crops of corn and trees loaded with autumn
fruits. In Kansas City we find, that ever-
pervading rush and bustle with perhaps on
this occasion a little additional, for the City
is astir with recent Fair matters. One
rather amusing incident that seemed to be
attracting considerable attention was an
immense ox hitched to a cart, the animal
wearing a fancy head-dress of many color-
ed ribbons and driven by a grey haired
negro.
	Here too we see forcible examples of the
marvelous power of electricity as we see
the cars glide so gently, and without any
perceptible effort up the steepest hillside.
After a short rest and with replenished lunch
baskets we are once more aboard the train
and rushing on to the next important land
mark of our journey the far famed Chicago!
Who would think in contemplating this
Mammoth City with its glorious monu-
ments to men's genius and industry that
it, so brief a time since, was mostly a heap
of blackened ruins, laid low by the fiery
dragon. One would almost think that only
fairy fingers could in so short a space of time
remove all traces of devastation and erect
these collossal structures of modem architec-

[Column 2]

ture; and now we have added to these won-
ders, the marvelous "World's Fair Building;"
The average human mind stands in awe while
contemplating these vast piles of wood, stone
and mortar arranged in rugged and still
symmetrical forms. Truly a study for the
most aesthetic soul.
	Those who have visited Chicago need no
description of the crowded thoroughfares
and the throngs of crushing, hurrying human-
ity. In being transferred from the C. and
A. to the Chicago and Great Western, our
driver in his desire to gain time, attempted to
get ahead of other teams; this proved
a sad mistake for himself and passengers, as
well as the long train of vehicles following;
for forty-five minutes we were blockaded
and could not move an inch in either
direction—with this condition at the present
time under ordinary circumstances, what
can we expect a few months hence when
the great tide of humanity from all parts of
the world turn their faces toward the setting
sun. After a half day pleasantly employed
in sight-seeing, we board the train once
more, this time for our final destination.
	The suburbs of Chicago are no less inter-
esting than the quiet interior. The com-
modious farm-homes, green lanes, smooth
boulevards, and passing a little farther on,
Lake Michigan dashing high against the
shores, the white spray at times coming so
near that we can almost imagine we feel its
moisture on our brows.
	We reach Ann Arbor at 9,30 p. m. Satur-
day, too late to secure permanent quarters
so must submit to hotel fare until Monday
morning. For whatever the temptation
might be, or perchance even an apparent
necessity the good people of this Christian
and highly intelligent little City could not
countenance the breaking of the Sabbath
day. An example many of our home folks
would do well to follow. On this particu-
lar morning as we walked forth to find some
of our Utah friends a deep sense of peaceful
stillness seemed to prevail even the very
atmosphere, for scarcely a leaf stirred and
no sound greeted our ears save the occasion-
al ringing of the college bell which strikes
not only at the hour, but the half and the
quarter. Methinks no more gorgeous scene
could greet the eyes than that we beheld in
and around the campus—the gathering
places of the numerous brain workers of
far-famed Ann Arbor. The original plan of
the grounds is at once interesting, ingenious,
and beautiful. Asphaltum walks, smooth,
green lawns, and stately shade trees of great
variety the latter showing the venerableness
of time, and at present we might fancy the
touch of fairy fingers—or might it not be
the touch of divinity for what other Artist
could give these varied artistic colorings and
innumerable shadings of the luxuriant foli-
age; the maple predominates and its bright
yellow and crimson leaves with a back-
ground of dark evergreen, and here and there
the chestnut of lighter green and brown,
makesa picture on our mental vision never
to be forgotten.
	The campus grounds consist of two or
three square blocks and here are situated the
College buildings the central figures of inter-
est. The main University building though
quite commodious and well adapted for class
work is rather plain and common place, and
must have been built a long time ago, it is
four stories surmounted by a large dome
and of a peculiar greyish brown color, has a
large hall for state occasions and popular
lectures. There is also a large chapel 
where students are all invited to come and

[Column 3]

hear a scriptorial chapter every morning.
The remainder of the building is divided in-
to numerous rooms for class exercise princi-
pally for literary work, and even the
enumeration of the various branches taught
there, might be wearisome so we forbear. 
	The medical building also bears the traces
of time—a rather unpretentious building of
itself though a number of large Corinthian
pillars in the front give it an air of import-
ant dignity. This school occupies a high
plane in its facilities for medical knowledge,
many of the professors having world-wide
celebrity in their specialties of practice and
teaching, and in addition to these important
requisities they are perfect gentlemen show-
ing the most perfect courtesy and consider-
ation to women—giving the same oppor-
tunities to both sexes equally; but this is a
subject we wish to discuss in a future letter,
so we will pass on to the consideration of
the various halls of learning. There are
special buildings for practical Anatomy
Chemistry, Civil Engineering, a magnifi-
cent Museum and a grand old library.
These are all of more modern architecture
and finishing, the latter particularly being a
source of great convenience to students in
the various departments, it being free to all
every day in the week except Sunday of
course, and containing extensively ancient
and modern literature. One pleasing
feature connected therewith is the perfect
quiet and good order that is maintained by
the hundreds of students that are constantly
coming and going—coming here to spend a
few moments or hours as the case may be
before, between, or after classes, perhaps to
look up special points referred to during
the lecture or to prepare for a recitation yet
to come. Not upon the Campus proper
but just west across the street is a large
stone structure Newberry Hall or the School
of Music. A very wealthy lady, Mrs.
Newberry of Detroit, bequeathed a large
sum of money for its erection and it is cer-
tainly a very creditable monument to her
generosity.
	Ann Arbor may very appropriately be
called a College town, for without the Uni-
versity of Michigan it would be quite an
insignificant geographical feature. The
residences are nearly all frame structures
and apparently built for the accommodation
of students most houses containing a num-
ber of suites, a nice large study room, and a
bed-room or alcove separated by heavy
chenille curtains and nearly every home you
enter shows much taste and skill in the wo-
manly art of home decoration. And here
it seems to me the housewife's duties are
reduced to a minimum—very rarely do you
have to step on the ground, for board or
asphaltum walks extend around every block
and I don,t think I have seen mud or dust
since I left home so that one good sweep-
ing and dusting a week is sufficient to keep
rooms neat and tidy.
	There are some fine buildings on Main
Street the business part of the City especial-
ly the Court House on the steps of which,
the other day, we listened to a Democratic
speech from the candidate for Vice President
A. Stephenson.
	The weather here is simply charming;
a more delighiful October could not be well
imagined, until the last week we have been
very comfortable without wraps, and now it
is bright and clear, though the air is cold it is
bracing. There are at present four thous-
and students registered at the University so
you can well imagine the streets and cam-
pus present a lively appearance during the


school days of the week, the great majori-
ty of these students are young people but
occasionally we see a grey haired matron or
gentleman apparently as energetic and en-
thusiastic as the youngest and most
sprightly.
	Well I fear I have made this letter too
long already; I do not wish to weary you
as I have something more I want to say to
you in the future. With love to you our
dear president, and all the members of the
club; I am yours sincerely,
				ELLIS R. SHIPP M. D.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
		PHYSIOLOGICAL LECTURE.

	THE following is a synopsis of a lecture
given before the Woman's Hygiene Phy-
siological reform class at Lehi Aug 31, 1892,
by a member.
	The subject is the period of child-life
when development into manhood and wo-
manhood begins.
	The little boy and girl may grow up un-
der the same conditions yet you will notice
by their walk and talk a difference in their
natures. At the age of ten perhaps every
thing being normal the boy will display
qualities suited to the hardier side of life;
the girl will lean to the tender side and so
it will be through life. They are not
created the same, their vocations in life
must neccessarily be different in many par-
ticulars if they would reach the exalted end
intended by their Creator. What is the end
intended? That to which I refer, is to be-
come exalted beings as our Creator. But
we are dealing now with a preparatory state.
Physical, mental and spiritual development.
Each has its bearing upon the others and to
have the training well balanced must go
hand in hand. The little child must be
physically mentally and spiritually trained.
	Let me speak first of the physical train-
ing. God's laws and Nature's laws are
perfect and are one. If we govern and are
governed by perfect law, is it not reasonable
to suppose the resnlts will be most satis-
factory?
	There are many things to be considered
in the physical development. Diet, dress,
work, play, rest.
	What kind of food shall our maturing
children eat? Pickles, pastry, candies and
nicknacks? Many do eat such things, but
notice the results. On the other hand, give
them food made from grain, fruits,
vegetables. And in all the plain palatable
and digestible forms that wide-awake moth-
ers are capable of preparing, at the same
time forbidding stimulants by teaching them
the evil effects, being yourself an example
and then again notice the results.
	How shall they be clothed? Cotton un-
der-wear, long tight waists, garters, thin
stockings and tight shoes. Mark the
effect?
	On the contrary: give them perfect free-
dom in every part of the body, woolen or
silk next the skin; every thing supported
from the shoulders; shoes suited in quality
to the season. And last though not least,
let every part of the body have perfect free-
dom and be properly protected. Work,
play,rest and exercise—all must be governed
in wisdom. But I will speak especially of
the work.
	I think that children should be taught to
work. Do not allow idleness for just to
the extent it is allowed, it will bring ruin.
Give them work but let the work be of
such a nature that it will not injure them.

[column 2]
As they advance into their teens, do not
put the girl upon her feet and expect her to
stand day in and day out, do not put her
at the wash-tub or ironing-table three or
four days out of every week. If you do it
is at a risk of her womanly development.
	Now we will take the mental and
spiritual training. Great injury is wrought
the growing girl by urging her or allowing
her, to master her education too early in life.
Many of our young girls are exceedingly
brilliant and as they discover the beauties
of the different branches of knowledge
which fill them with so much delight, it is
but natural that they will make an effort to
master as many of them as possible. They
must not be allowed to put too great a
strain upon their mental powers, because
the mental draws its support from the
physical body and if exerted to extremes
exhausts the physical organism. The most
important organs particularly can be great-
ly injured and in many instances they are
completely robbed of their power to per-
form their part of the mission of life. If
these things were not so often done in ig-
norance, how many would be the crimes to
be accounted for? Is it not a crime to will-
fully thwart the designs of our Creator?
	Among other blessings, God has given
womankind one grand mission to perform,
namely that of becoming mothers. No in-
vention can cover it. Woman must per-
form that work herself. And how proud
she ought to feel of the distinction; and
with what exalted feelings should she in-
spire the minds of her daughters in regard
to their existence: making plain to their
minds the plans and designs of our Creator
in peopling the earth. For in these tender
years of their lives while developing
physically they are laying the foundation of
their constitution, their character and their
future hapiness.	MARTHA KEELER,
	Provo.


W. S. A. SALT LAKE CO.

	The S. L. Co. W. S. A met as per ad-
journment in the 13th Ward Assembly
Rooms, on Tuesday Oct. 18th, Vice Prest.
L. K. Spencer in the chair. Opened by
singing “Wyoming,” prayer Elizabeth M.
Price. Singing “Oh come come away”
minutes of previous meeting read and ap-
proved. Roll called, the program was
rendered as follows: reading by M. A.
Freeze, on the duties of mayor, song
Maggie Bassett, speech Elizabeth Mc’Far-
lane, in which she expressed an opinion
that it might improve the city government
if we had a lady mayor.
	M.Y. Dougall echoed the sentiments of
the former speaker, and thought if women
had more to do with the municipal govern-
ment, that many of the present evils would
not exist.
	E. M. Price, speaking of some of the ob-
jections to woman suffrage, thought the
time would come when the men would be
as much ashamed of the present condition
of public affairs as they are now, of the
ancient “ducking stool.”
	Vice Prest. N. C. Taylor thought that if
women were associated with men in the
Court Room, etc. the floors would be kept
clean of tobacco juice,and men’s feet would
stay on the floor, instead of reposing on
tables and window-sills.
	Ter. Prest. Sarah M. Kimball mentioned
some reforms brought about by the Kansas
women, when they had a share in the City


government, and thought that if men and
women were associated together in this
capacity, it would be elevating to both, also
that when Utah should present a constitution
asking for statehood, justice to women re-
quired, that it should contain a clause, con-
fering equal political rights and privileges
on men and women. Said it was woman's 
province to purify politics, but if she were
coming down to the level of some men, it
would be a great letting down, we will be
known by our fruits.
	Short speeches were made by Maria Holt
and E. Mc'Farlane. Vice Prest. Phebe C. 
Young related an incident, where a woman
was arrested and cast into prison on 
suspicion of being intoxicated, and was
found dead the next morning with a new
born babe by her side; thought that if a
police matron had been there, such lack of
care would not have been exhibited. Said
we could hardly expect that men would be 
condemned for crimes against women, by 
men who were guilty of the same crimes
themselves. 
	Dr. E. S. Barney said she favored acting
upon principle, rather than policy. 
	Prest. Howard announced that the next
meeting would be for the election of officers
and renewal of membership. Mrs. Bassett
again delighted the assembly with a sweet 
song, and the meeting adjourned. 
			C. C. R. WELLS, Sec.


A HAPPY EVENT.
				——
MAY sweet content be yours upon life's sea,
	And every day fulfill a dream of bliss,
Then whatsoe'er your lot or destiny
	True love will bring you trust and happiness.

	In the Manti Temple, November 3rd 1892,
Elder Thomas L. Sloan and Miss Edna M. Wells
were united in the sacred bonds of marriage.
The bride is the youngest daughter of the late
Gen. D. H. and Martha G. Wells, and the bride-
groom the son of Phebe and the late Edward L.
Sloan formerly editor of the Salt Lake Herald etc.
	There was no reception given; but the young
couple went quietly to housekeeping without the
demonstrations usual among the young folks
nowadays; though both are very popular in
society and received showers of congratulations
and some very elegant and choice presents.
Everything looks favorable and propitious now
for a prosperous voyage on the sea of life; and
may their happiness be as complete as it is pos-
sible for mortals to enjoy. The bride is popular
in society, a gifted, amateur artist and has many
other accomplishments; and withal is domestic
in her tastes and fond of home; Mr. Sloan pos-
sesses those sterling qualities of head and heart
that have endeared him to his friends and are es-
sential to success in life.
	May their experiences be such as develop the
best and truest interests and excellences in the
building of a home here and hereafter.


WEDDING BELLS.
"But happy they the happiest of their kind!
Whom gentle stars unite; and in one fate
Their hearts, their fortunes and their beings
blend."
	It becomes our duty and a very pleasant one
 too to record the marriage of Miss Josephine
Simmons one of our compositors in this office
for some years, and who has also "made up"
the forms for the EXPONENT for two or three years
past. Miss Simmons is one of the young girls
who has made a success of type-setting, and it is
our sincere wish that she will be as successful in
her wifely duties as she has been in her work here;
but we are very well aware it requires more
varied talent.
	Miss Simmons we feel has begun right. She
was married to Albert Wilks an exemplary and
upright young man, in the Logan Temple Novem-
ber 2nd 1892.
	On the evening of Thursday November 3rd a
reception was held at the residence of ther moth-
er Mrs. Henrietta Simmons of the 20th Ward this
City, which we had the pleasure of attending


There were present most of the members of the
Simmons family and several of her grandfather's
family, the late Bishop Edwin D. Wooley. A
very merry and happy party they made, the bride
was animated and witty and the bridegroom sedate
but apparently intensely happy. The greetings
were warm and genuine, and there were kisses in
great abundance, from the large assembly of re-
latves. Quite a handsome crowd, there were
matrons, young married people, babies, various
kinds of music and recitations were given during
the evening and each one seemed willing to con-
tribute something to the enjoyment of the oc-
casion. There were a great number of useful
presents,and some very beautiful things given, and
the supper was delicious, in the strict sense of the
word. In fact there seemed nothing lacking to
make the occasion all that a model wedding party
should be. The memory of that evening should 
be ever an agreeable reminiscence in after years.
	May the happiness of this young couple increase
with their love and respect for each other as time
rolls on and in all the experience they may be
called to pass through may they rely upon the
principles of truth, aud have that faith in the Lord
and in the Everlasting Gospel which will sustain
them through the storm of adversity as well as
the sunshine of prosperity.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
﻿NOTES AND NEWS.
	In Glasgow, Scotland,  15,740 women
have municipal suffrage.
   MISS ALICE STONE BLACKWELL is at-
tending the Woman's Congress at Mem-
phis, Tenn.
	It is with much sorrow that we chronicle
the defeat, in the Vermont Senate,  of  the
Woman Suffrage Bill which lately passed
the House so triumphantly.
   DR. MARGARET CLEAVES has been unan-
imously elected secretary of the Electro-
therapeutic Society,  of New York, being 
the first woman to hold this office.
	A MEETING of the Executive Committee
of the National Council of Women will be 
held in Chicago,  December 14-15.  Many
matters of importance  relating  to  the
World's Congress of Representative Wo-
men, to be held under the auspices of the
Woman's Branch of the World's  Congress
Auxiliary and the National Council of Wo-
men,  will be discussed at this meeting.
   FRANCES E WILLARD went to England
with Lady Somerset, sailing on the  Majes-
tic, Nov. 16.  She will return to America
in April.  Miss Anna Gordon, who accom-
panies Miss Willard, will spend the winter
organizing children's work in England.
	Mrs. Gladstone is as young as her hus-
band. Although she is eighty,  she has 
never yet known what it was  to need 
spectacles, and her eyes are as bright as
those of a young girl.  Sir Andrew Clarke
says she ought to be called the Grand Old
Woman.
	Rev.  Edward E. Hale seconds Miss
Willard's nomination of Jean Ingelow for
poet-laureate.  He says in  the Boston
Commonwealth:  "A queen should have a
woman for her laureate.  Victoria is to look 
among the women of England,  to know
who has written, or  who can write,  such
poems as shall honor a reign,  now more 
than half a century long,  which has a
literature of its own, as in all other regards
it has  its own distinctive history.   This
woman is Jean Ingelow."
	The little adopted son of Mrs.  Palmer
will press the button that is to send the
electric thrill through the great machinery of
the Exposition.   The  little fellow is a 
Castilian by birth, and the son of an officer
in the Spanish Army.  He was christened
Murillo Castelar Palmer by the great orator 
and poet, Emilio Castelar.
   MISS CLARA BARTON,  of  Washington,

[Column 2]
D. C., of Red Cross fame, is with the  Ray-
mond excursion party enroute to Califor-
nia.  She is accompanied by Dr.  Hubbell
and Miss Almon.  Miss Barton says that
it is probable that the International Red
Cross Society will make an elaborate ex-
hibit next year.
	Between twenty and thirty women have
already registered as students of the post-
graduate department at Yale.  Yale has
received over $2,000,000  the past year.
President Dwight states that a million
more has been pledged.  The principal be-
quests have been from the Fayerweather
estate,  from  Mrs.  Olive  Winchester,  of
New York, who gave $100,000 for the erec-
tion of the new scientific building, and from
Mrs. Osborn, of New York, who also  gave
Osborn Hall, and who in her will left about
$100,000  to  Yale.  It is good  to  enrich
Yale.  But women,  when they bequeath
money to educational institutions, should 
remember the colleges that admit women to
all their privileges.


OBITUARY.
Editor EXPONENT:
	THE grim monster "death" has had another
victory, and that will be the theme of this writ-
ing.
	My beloved wife Louisa, died Friday evening
the 28th of October 1892, at 7,30 o'clock, of
bilious fever. She was taken sick on the 5th, and
after lingering twelve or fourteen days she began
to get better, and we had great hopes that she
would recover, for on the 19th and 20th she was
so much better that she sat up in a chair; but the
next day, she took a relapse, and from that on
until the following Friday, the day of her death
as stated, she was very sick all the time. The
Elders were frequently called in to administer to
her, and we all did the best we could to exercise
faith in her behalf. She was also remembered in
our public worship.
	The children naturally clung to her life, and
would not and could not give her up, for they
loved her dearly. Four children are left to
mourn her departure, two boys and two girls,
aged respectively 25, 21, 19 and 17; all of them at
home and unmarried.
	She meets her first born on the other side of the
vail, a darling baby who died at one year old.
	Mary, the youngest of the girls, had a presenti-
ment a few days before her mother died, while
praying in a sacred place, a spirit or voice told
her that her mother could not get well; but still
we clung to her, and did not want her to part from
us; and she herself did not want to go; but we
all believe now that it was the will of the Lord,
and hence we try to reconcile our feelings as best
we can.
	She died as she had lived faithful and true to
the gospel and in the hope of a glorious ressur-
rection. She was perfectly conscious to the last
and spoke till within two or three hours of her
death, admonishing her children to be good and
true. The day before she was taken ill, she was
round visiting the sisters in her district together
with Sister Hedervig Christensen, as teachers.
It would be the truth to say that she was very
benevolent and kind-hearted to the poor, and a
reward even for this will await her.
	She was born in Nyborg Denmark the 25th of
September 1838, and was the daughter of Rasmus
and Kirstine Jasperson.
	In 1857 she left her home by steamer for
Aarhuns a province in Jutland to provide for her-
self. In that City there was a large branch of the
Church, and she became acquainted with the Lat-
ter Day Saints, and was baptized Sept. 6th 1860.
The next spring she emigrated to Utah, and then
you know the rest, for if I mistake not she came
to live with you right away in the City after her
arrival.
	On her visit to Sanpete in May 1864, together
with Mary Flygare, I became acquainted with her
and we were married in the Endowment House
on the 15th of June following.
	I believe that you thought a good deal of my
wife, and would like to hear some of the par-
ticulars of her demise, and I can assure you that
she thought a great deal of you. There is, how-
ever, some pleasure even in death itself. She
was beautiful even in death and she was laid
away neatly in a nice white coffin, and the
children will hold this in dear remembrance.


We did some work and received some special
blessings in the Manti Temple where President
Wells presided.  In these things I rejoice and
hope to prove worthy that we may all meet again.
	With kind love and regard from the children
and myself, I remain your brother in the gospel,
						LAURITZ LARSEN.


ELEANOR COTTRELL MARTYN.

	Died May 16th 1892 at Cleveland, Ohio, Elea-
nor Cottrell wife of Henry L. Martyn in her 66th
year.
	The death of a wife and mother is always a
sad occasion and especially so when sudden and
unexpected, and those nearest and dearest are
scarcely able for a time to see the hand of the
Lord in the sorrow that falls upon them, but did
they but realize the rest for the weary soul,
after the toil and struggles of mortality they
could not mourn for them as they sometimes do.
	We were shocked at first to hear of the death
of this good woman a relative whom we had
hoped to meet again sometime, but we know that
it must some day be the fate of all living; and that,
“Angels of life and death alike are His;’’ 
	Without His leave they pass no threshold o’er;
Who then would wish or dare, believing this
	Against His messengers to shut the door.”
Mrs. Martyn whose death is only now an-
nounced in our columns, was quite a superior wo-
man in many respects, a consistent Christian and
number of the Baptist Church and actively en-
gaged in benevolent work and a firm believer and
advocate of the advancement of women in all
lines of progress.
 Mrs. Martyn whose maiden name was Cottrell
has relatives somewhere in this Territory from
whom she was very anxious to hear while she
was living. We should be very glad if any one of
that name in the country would communicate
with us and we could give the address of her
husband and family.
	May the comforting influences of the Holy
Spirit rest upon the aged husband and the family,
is the prayer of one who is interested in their
present and future welfare.—Editor.


DOCTOR MATTIE HUGHES CANNON,
Office: II South, First West Street. 
Office practice for Diseases of Women from 2
until 4 pm. 

Woman’s Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS 
AND STATIONERY, EQUI- 
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, latest
styles. Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
	No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
			Three doors west of Theatre.

MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her residence, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 pm.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS

David James & Co. 
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to. 
AVD JAMES.  Box 306, Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 21. 		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1892	       No. 12.


CONTENTS:
	The Christmas of the Pioneers—Augusta Joyce
Crocheron.  Angelina—A Story—W. Crouch-
U.W. P. CLUB—Gladys Woodmansee.  A Pleas-
ant Evening.  One of a String of Pearls—
Selected.  Columbus.
	EDITORIAL:—A Historic House. World’s Fair
and Silk Industry.  A Happy Event.  Christmas
Time.  Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—Preparation—L. L. Greene Richards.
Communings—L. M. H.  Remembered—S. R. E.


PREPARATION.
So much is said, so much is done,
To make old Christmas merry, 
With pleasant jokes and guileless fun,
It should be joyous, very.
Bright hopes, and little cause for fear,
With blessings crown the closing year. 

Since the first this old year to us came—
Take now a retrospection; 
What have we earned of praise or blame,
Of favor or correction?
I said ‘‘have we,” I’ll say have I;
My neighbor’s case I need not try.

But on my own, of right I sit,
As Jury, Judge and Marshal;
And though I find grave flaws in it, 
I still must be impartial;
And state, the evidence I find,
Shows faults, but motives not unkind.

And here, (in common phrase,) I’ll start 
To weeding my own garden,
By asking, from my inmost heart, 
My friends’ and neighbors’ pardon,
Wherein I’ve offered anything,
That could distrust or censure bring. 

And humbly, too, I wish to say,
To all who may have striven,
For you, as for myself I pray,
That all may be forgiven;
And meet, from disputations free,
The grand year, Eighteen ninety-three.

Again, unto myself I’ll speak;
To concentrate my labors,
I’ll earnestly and kindly seek
To bless my poorer neighbors.
Religion undefiled and pure, 
Means, visit and relieve the poor:

And from the world, its sins and strife, 
To keep myself unspotted;
If this I do, I’ll lead the life
To faithful saints allotted.  
God grant, that through the coming year,
My page may truly thus appear.

And give Thy people grace and pow’r, 
To make full preparation, 
For that sublime and august hour—
Thy Temple’s Dedication;
With all that’s said, and all that’s done, 
In this, oh may Thy Saints be one!
Dec. 1892.		L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


[Column 1]
FOR THE EXPONENT:
THE CHRISTMAS OF THE PIONEERS

	Christmas is coming! Happiness and 
luxury are in the woods, happiness and 
comfort, for a brief season even for the
poor. 

[Column 2]
	With these words comes a reflection up-
on the first Christmas ever held in this val-
ley, and that by the Mormon Pioneers.
Perhaps the first place in all Christendom,
that the first Christmas has been celebrated 
by them, the Mormon people. Not the 
far-famed city then an oasis in the vast
wilderness of sage brush, watered by its 
one crystal canyon stream then unnamed.
But, in their wagons, tents and hastily con-
structed cabins, a merry, a thankful Christ-
mas, for there were no enemies, no
persecutions, all was hope and faith in the
promise given them. Have they forgotten?
Have they ceased to repeat the legend of 
those days to the children and grandchildren
who have grown up a populouos multitude
around them? Or, can these children 
realize the scenes that in future years shall
be as a romance to historians? Do those
Pioneers sing to the little ones the songs
that belonged to their time? I remember 
hearing one once, and the refrain was this:

"A life on the desert plains,
A home on the mountain’s breast,
Where the Indian rudely reigns
And the sea has gone to rest.”

	Why should those songs which were a 
part of their history, be suffered to fade 
away in the past? They expressed the
emotions, experiences and hopes of that 
time and cheered the Pilgrims, and should
be preserved.
	Are those pioneers remembered and re-
garded as heroes and heroines? Actuated
and moved by the spirit that impelled them, 
is it less grand than the story of the Puritan 
fathers and mothers; that is now a heritage
in every Puritan household? Is not that
spirit of pride already lighted to glow
around the names and memory of the
pioneers? O, wondrous work of a few
fleeting years, so few that not all of those
veterans are passed away. 
	Not many of them saw with prophetic 
eyes the miracle to be wrought by prayers,
faith and works; the miracle already 
wrought and which those eyes not all yet 
dimmed, behold.  O, ye Pioneers! What 
have ye brought to light? Where once
your wagons camped in the arid dust and 
brush. a city’s streets are paved; where
once your camp fire burned, electric lights
now glow, and your cabins have given place
to palatial edifices of industry and com-
merce. Your camp-fire schools are changed
to Academies and Colleges, your looms to 
factories.
	Into the sleeping Utah land came the
prince of light and broke the sleep of ages. 
Your lands of desolate, miry clay have 
turned to bricks, to gold; your eyes have
traced and your hands brought forth to use-
fulness the foundations of coal and iron 
beneath the “everlasting hills;” the granite
and marbles have changed their cumbrous 
shapes to adorn your habitations and the
resting places of your honored dead; the 
mountain streams have washed to view 
their grains of gold; and by the vapors of 
the inland sea and the caldrons of heat
below, the great Alchemist in the subter-
ranean laboratories of nature, has moulded
the veins of silver and copper, lead and 

[Column 3]
gold, wrapped in the rough covering of 
earth. In the desert wastes your artesian 
wells are bursting forth with purer brilliancy 
and far more benefit, than your most famed
political orators; and you have had, if not,
“the shadow of day” “the pillar of fire 
by night,” by the shore of that wonderful
Lake, that the great and the noble come to
view. Where once, barefooted boys (they are
Nature’s noblemen now,) herded their
straying cows and boiled eggs for their din-
ner in the springs that George A. said were
“only half a mile from-some-where” the
magnates of the land hold their feasts, the
feeble invalid and the wonder seeker come, 
in carriages or cars, to drink and bathe in
its healing waters, and bestow their
eulogiums upon its virtues, its delights,
and Utah; and they call it Beck's Hot
Springs. Why! every pioneer’s son knew
its merits long ago. Your “cattle are upon
a thousand hills,” your sheep and lambs
spread like fields of snow and your herds of
untamed horses sweep like clouds across
the plains, until Utah is not large enough;
your names and possessions reach into States
and Territories the wilds of Mexico and the
borders of Canada, while still others bear
the story of the Gospel’s plan to nearly 
every nation upon the earth. Once—the low-
ly and misunderstood Mormons, now, it is 
an honor to be born in Zion, now, to hail 
from Utah is a passport. Now, the voices
of your sons and daughters are heard in the
counsels of Committees of the outside
world.
	Your artists, sculptors, professors and 
authors are acknowledged, your vocalists
and musicians, your choirs and choral 
societies are famed among the professors of
our country. 
	The sons of pioneers who entered this
valley in covered wagons (oftimes torn and 
soiled) and in some cases drawn by a com-
posite team of oxen and cows, with worn
out and repaired harness such as was never
seen before and will never be seen again;
now ride in luxurious carriages behind
thoroughbred horses in glittering harness;
or speed along the old six months trail in 
rail-road carriages in which some of them
are share holders. And this soil of which 
it was predicted, that it would not raise
corn, now yields the fruits of the North and 
the Semi-Tropics, and sends her potatoes
east, her wheat to England, and her dried
fruits back to the States and Territories of
the Union. And yet, when you reached
here, destitute though you were, and the 
crickets destroyed your scanty crops; though
sickness visited you and clothing worn to 
tatters, you were as one said: “a thousand
miles from anywhere,” and you turned
your thoughts to God, your hands to 
labor and waited for the blessing. But the
world you had left followed you when they 
reached here travel worn over the roads you
had made in the trackless wilderness, you 
warmed and fed, and pointed out the way
still on, Still the tide of emigration fol-
lowed your lonely trail, until many nations
have yielded their representatives. Still
they come, but now to wonder, admire and
respect. And one by one, and in groups.


they seek the place where Brigham Young
is laid. Around his silent ashes the foot-
steps of the stranger falls; men who never
saw his face nor heard his voice, but un-
consciously by that visit render tribute to 
his power and majesty of mind among men. 
And they turn to the Temple, a mystery to 
the world, a benediction to us, crowning
triumph of your weary pilgrimage, sacred 
offering to His holy name. 
	Founded under the leader of that
wondrous pilgrimage, it is indeed fitting
that it should be completed under the
administration of Wilford Woodruff, one of
the last of that noble band whose names
will live in immortality.
	Brigham and Wilford! Their names will
arise, more than all others in the Temple’s
history. Each led their people through 
ordeals that tried men’s souls; but the 
clouds are passing away. You had your
black crickets, and the sea gulls came to 
your rescue; you have also had your
political crickets who have tried to devour 
our larger crops but they’ve found the
amount too large and are trying to unswal-
low it, and perhaps, some other Gulls may 
come to our relief in their case. To many 
of our Pioneers, but few more Christmas 
seasons will come, they will have passed to
where the Prince of that Day will greet His
worshippers. Honor, happiness, comfort
and rest be yours while yet you stay; and 
passing to the promised reward, may you
fall sweetly asleep to a glorious awaken-
ing.
	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON. 
Dec. 12, 1892.


WOMAN S EXPONENT.


ANGELINA.
A STORY
[By W. Crouch]
	I WAS born in one of the most delightful
of all the delightful places in dear old Eng-
land. My childhood was passed, mid
flowers and fruits and waving grain, green
fields, and groves and shady lanes, and the
ever varying and delicious music, of paren-
tal instruction, childrens prattle, the hum-
ming of bees and the singing of birds.
	Well do I remember rising with the lark
in the morning, in the delicious May
weather we then enjoyed. When from the
surrounding meadows, first one would
twitter, and then rise up and sing; and
then another and another, till more than a
dozen larks would be in the air at once,
pouring forth the delicious harmony of their
morning song! By the time the first part
was concluded, the woods and groves would
be alive with choristers. The thrush, the
blackbird, the starling, the linnet, the gold-
finch, the bullfinch, the chaffinch, the tom-
tit and all his followers, with the rest of
the feathered tribe would be pouring forth
their songs of praise, and grateful acknowl-
edgement for the bounties of heaven. And
the great Hallelujah chorus would be re-
peated over and over again with the ut-
most delight and gusto, compatible with
musical harmony.
	My parents were poor but industrious,
and they taught their children to be indus-
trious too. So that the early summer
morning often found us sowing, planting,
hoeing or weeding, in the midst of all this
delightful music and sunshine.
	I suppose there were cold and dreary
winters in those years, but I do not seem
to remember them. I remember how I
loved my father and mother, my two

[Column 2]
brothers, and my little darling, my only
sister. I remember how pleased I felt
when she was born; when I first learned
that I had a sister. How proud I was to be
her nurse. How I would hold her to my
bosom and breathe into her infant soul, as
it were, such loving words as rose so na-
turally then, to lips not yet defiled! And
often have I seen not only my mother but
father do the same. And how often in
after life has my soul seemed to feed upon
the memory of the past, and longed to re-
turn again to, or reproduce such happy
days.
	When we would run through the fields
to meet our father returning from work,
and he wouid often stop, and fondly em- 
brace us all. Then taking baby in his arms,
with words of love and kind encourage-
ment, would lead us home. There to re-
new those tender embraces in which our
loving mother always shared.
	Little did we think then, that the time
would ever come that we should be met
with a scornful frown, but so it came to
pass.
	For some cause that I never understood,
we removed from our peaceful home in the
country to London. I believe that an offer
to my father of higher wages, was the
cause. We had heard wonderful stories of
London, and I remember how we all en-
couraged each other to rejoice in the pros-
pect before us. And alas! I remember too,
how soon we were undeceived.
	The sweet refreshing breeze, the clear
and delicious sunshine, the delightful music
of the birds, and above all the bright green
fields were gone, and seemed to be gone
from us forever.
	Whenever I was sent on an errand, or
had occasion to go from place to place, at
every turn of the street I would look for
green fields but I looked in vain.
	Were I to tell you all the. discomforts of
our new home, it would be but the old
story, that breathes too much of disgust
for description here. Suffice it to say,
every one of us felt unhappy. I can re-
member, how tiresome we children were,
and our dear mother’s patience, and for-
bearance, under all her trials.
	But there was now a new trial looming
in the future, greater and worse than them
all. My poor but good, my kind and
loving father, now-seemed to lose his love
for us, and took to drinking as he said, to
enable him to sleep at nights. I remember
hearing my mother say, “what was good
for her husband, was good for her.” And
as they had walked in the way of virtue
and peace, so they went down the hill to-
gether. But it was not the way of peace
now; Alas no! “the way of transgressors
is hard.” And so it verily was, to them
and us. My brothers learned to roam about
the streets, in bad company, to fight and
swear; and became lazy and saucy to my
poor mother, and untruthful.
	But in the midst of all this degradation,
my little sister Linny, seemed to grow up
so pure and loving; so kind and affectionate,
and even happy. Often as I reflect upon
the past, do I seem to hear her musical
voice, as she would come bounding into the
room, to tell of some kind action done, of
some sweet babe that she had been nursing
perhaps half a day for a penny; and now
that the soul-destroying drink, had brought
us to abject poverty, little Linny’s pence
were often needed for bread.
	One evening, when my father and
mother had been drinking, and had a

[Column 3]
terrible quarrel, I had been tremblingly
watching, in the hope of being able to
prevent them doing each other harm. I had
missed Linny and knew not where she had
gone. When my father and mother were
quarreling, I had often persuaded her to go
to a neighbor’s house out of the way for I
knew such scenes were terribly painful to
her. After getting my parents to bed,
(girl as I was) and seeing them fast asleep,
sat down to wait for Linny; when I heard
her sweet voice gently calling me up the
stairs. We had no candle, inside the house
it was dark; but outside, it was clear and
star light. I crept softly up to the little
back room where we slept. There sat my
sister at the window, gazing on a star,
“Angelina” she said, “sit down beside me
darling, and look at this beautiful star, I
have been admiring it so long, and have
seen fields and flowers, and beautiful trees:
even surpassing the beauty of those of our
dear old home.” “Look,” said she “and
you’ll see the star open.”
	Well we sat down, hand in hand,long and
lovingly together, conversing about the
star, but to me the star opened not, neither
did I expect it would. I remember she
repeated some sweet and comforting texts
of scripture, and passages she had learned
at school, for in the midst of all our sin and
sorrow, we had attended regularly to a
Sunday school.
	The next day Linny was ill: and my
father and mother were sober. Poor Lin-
ny’s sickness increased upon her day after
day. One day she called us all, around her
bed, and told us she knew she was going
to die. “For surely” she said “that
beautiful star was open to me last night,and
saw the angels.” And I verily believe
she thought she did.
	My father and mother now became deep-
ly concerned about Linny, they broke off—
their drunken habits but Linny died point-
ing them to the cross, and expressing a
hope of meeting us all in heaven.
	About this time my father and mother
signed the temperance pledge, and faithfully
they kept their covenant.
	But new trials awaited us, my father’s
constitution was broken, and the miscon-
duct of one of his sons, nearly broke his
heart. In much affliction he toiled on,
but could only earn a scanty pittance. For
alas! who in London will employ a man
that has not strength to do a full day’s work.
	My brother John remained at home, but
Thomas was gone we knew not where.
John was a good lad, and much of our lit-
tle leisure was spent together, at the window
often talking of Linny and the star, until
indeed, we became almost superstitious.
	But our dear parents were more affection-
ate to each other now than they had been
for years and we were leading the lives of
humble penitents, conversing together often
on the love and mercy of God, and our
faith in the atonement.
	But the time of our great tronble came,
our father died; in the faith of the gospel
doubtless, so far as he understood it. And
my mother, my brother and my self went
into service; I obtained a place in the
country. Here I began life anew, with
new hopes, new joys, and new and severer
trials; in my new place I found I had much
to learn. And some people round, while
professing great friendship, were more ready
to teach evil than good.
	There was a man in my master’s employ-
ment lucky for me, (wise people said) he
was neither young nor handsome but he


persisted in paying his addresses to me, and
not supposing him to be guilty of flattery
or deception, I accepted his company some-
times in a walk. One night, when passing
a lonely spot, he made a proposal to me
that I knew was very wrong. And I felt
so indignant, and even surprised and
ashamed that I did not answer; whereupon
he proceeded to violence and a severe
struggle ensued. I resisted with all my
might, and pleaded with the man, begging
him in mercy to desist, but in vain. Then
as I felt my strength failing me, I prayed
to God; When in the vision of my mind
the star opened and a young man approach-
ed, coming to my help. Suddenly I ex-
claimed, “Look! look! who’s that? where-
upon the man, supposing some one was in-
deed coming, ran away in fear. I kneeled
down, and with a girlish heart gave thanks
to God; then walked home alone in safety.
	My mind now became filled with many
and serious thoughts. I saw now how it
was that so many modest and guileless young
women, were seduced and ruined, what a
narrow escape I had had, and how the
heavens had been opened as it were to my
help. And I resolved that I would sooner
die, than I would yield to any inhuman
monster, that sought to gratify his lust at
the expense of woman’s virtue. And that
too often they will do, under the strongest
pretension of the purest love. For this base
man had been very civil and obliging to
me; and had professed to love me with all
his heart, yet upon the slightest danger to
himself, he ran away and left me, and that
in a lonely place, on a dark night.
	I now became more than ever reconciled
to my lot as a servant, paid more attention
than ever to my duties, and had less desire
than ever to be gadding about.
	About this time my thoughts were often
stirred within me, concerning the way of
salvation. Sabbath after Sabbath, did I
attend Church. Joined in the formal prayers,
heard the minister preach, but my mind
was neither enlightened nor comforted. So
prayed in all humility and earnestness to
the Lord, the Almighty God, to guide me
into His knowledge.
	One night I had the following dream,
and of what should I dream but the star.
I dreamed that I was borne away in space,
how, and by whom, I could not tell; but
soared to my favorite star, and as I
approached the ineffable glory, the star
opened, and I entered its hallowed portals.
There I was met by the same young man
that I had seen in my vision before; and
he pointed out to me the beauties and
glories of the place and the exceedingly
pleasing appearance and happy condition of
the people. He told me that if I would
be true to the light of the star of truth,
and follow the divine guidance for which I
had been praying, that I should one day
come there again, be one of that heavenly
order and share their joys.
	Then he brought me down to earth, and
parting said, “If in any turning point of
danger or doubt in your eventful life to
come you can but behold, in the vision of
your mind, the opening star you may
advance.”
	One day, not long thereafter, I saw a
man sitting on a stile near the house; and
my attention was irresistibly drawn to him,
I knew not why. He appeared to me like
one who was tired and hungry, and I felt
a wish to relieve him. My master and
mistress were both kind hearted and good to
the poor. Presently the man approached

[Column 2]
the honse, and as I met him at the door, 
I said to him, “I wanted you to come, for I
fancied you were hungry, and I have food
that I can give you.”
	Thank you young woman, said the man,
but I must first do the will of Him that
sent me. I perceive, said he, that you are
one of the daughters of Israel; and to such
am I sent, even to. the lost sheep of the
house of Israel, to tell them the way of
salvation.
	While he was talking to me the vision of
my mind seemed lit up by the light of
eternity, and again the star opened, and I
regarded the poor wayfaring man as a
messenger from heaven. The more I
heard, the more I believed, and the more I
longed to obey, and inherit the blessing of
the glorious gospel.
	In short, I believed all he told me, cast
in my lot with the persecuted people of
God. Believing in Apostles and Prophets,
the gospel of salvation by Jesus Christ,
faith, repentance, and baptism for the re-
mission of sins, and the gift of the holy
ghost by the laying on of hands. And I
began more than ever to delight in honesty,
integrity, truth and virtue, and every thing
of good report; and I labored and prayed
continually, that I might keep the com-
mandments, and be saved in the kingdom
of God.
	I now had new motives for exertion, and
patient toil; for I had heard of a better
land, even the land of Zion. And every-
thing, even the star of my destiny seemed
directing me to it.
	So I continued in my place three years
after this, during which time I had more
than one offer of marriage, but upon neither
of these did the star open, and I refused.
	By the end of that time I had saved
money enough, and proceeded on my way
to the land of Zion, under the good star of
my destiny, and kind heaven’s approval.
	I have no time, nor inclination, to relate,
here all the taunts and persecution I had to
endure on account of my faith in, and
obedience to the gospel. Suffice it to say,
the star of my destiny was over me, and I
had full faith and confidence in Him who
rules the stars.
	Soon after I joined the Church I wrote a
long and loving letter to my mother, but
she supposing herself to be a good Chris-
tian,it seemed natural to suppose that I must
have been deluded, and she wrote to the
effect that she must renounce me as a
daughter, unless I renounced my faith.
	This letter from my mother whom I
loved so much, gave me great affliction.
For surely the spirit of the Lord did not
dictate such a course. I wrote again loving
as before, and if I felt one bitter thought I
did not express it, but she never wrote to
me after until she heard I was leaving the
country.
	I was standing on board ship ready for
departure, in the midst of a company of
Saints, we had just been singing one of the
songs of Zion, when I saw my dear mother
stepping on to the deck. The next moment
was locked in her embrace. My mother
tried hard to persuade me to return with
her; and as I felt the affectionate pressure
of her maternal embrace, and fondly looked
upon her aged and careworn countenance,
my bosom yearned over her, and my heart-
strings seemed to cling around her more
than ever. But all these strong ties of
nature, had to be sundered, for I could not
persuade my mother to accompany me;
though the money she brought for my

[Column 3]
ransom, as she called it, might have paid
her passage, over. But truly do I now
know what it is, to forsake my dearest
relative for the sake of the kingdom of
God.
	This parting with my mother was the
most painful part of my life. My brother
Thomas had left the country and had not
since been heard of. John had married,
and settled in a distant country. And here
was I, leaving my poor aged mother alone
and almost helpless in the world. And
how could I resist the conviction that I
ought to stay with her, as long as she lived,
aud comfort her. And yet, over and above
all this, there was the great command of
Jehovah, “Come out of her O my people,
that ye be not partakers of her sins, and
that ye receive not of her plagues.”
	Up to this time I had had no association
with any congregation of saints. And now
I soon found opportunity of making my-
self useful. But I was beginning to take
offence at the conduct of some, when I
heard a kind voice near me saying, "Are
you perfect sister?” And turning I saw—
but much improved in appearance—the
poor wayfaring man that three years before
I had seen sitting upon the stile, and whom
I had relieved with a morsel of bread, and
from whom I had received in return the
words of eternal life; and now he taught
me to understand myself, and my relation-
ship to those around me, that I must not
look for perfection here but, said he, “these
are the poor and despised, and in some cases
the most unlearned and down trodden of
poor fallen humanity; and these, said he,
let us be willing to hope are all trying to
become saints of God in very deed.”
	By the daily exercise of faith in Him,
who holds the winds in His fiat (as it were)
and the waves in the hollow of his hand, we
got over the sea in safety; and traversed
our great overland journey of nearly two
thousand miles of toil and trial—suffice it to
say we had trials by sea and by land; but
we had gained an experience that was bet-
ter to us than gold.
	When we had reached that part of the
way where we obtained the first view of our
mountain home, the joy of our hearts was
beyond compare. Again was the vision of
my mind lifted up as before, and I indulged
in the fancy, that the star opened and again
saw a young man coming toward me, bnt
this time that part of the sight was more
than a passing vision, it was a reality and
so soon to pass away, it was the poor way-
faring man that I had once relieved with a
morsel of bread.
	There we were, comparative strangers to
each other in a strange land among
strangers, and yet not among strangers but
brethren. And this we felt in our hearts
and souls to be indeed the case. But here
we stood at the altar of God, plighting our
vows to each other of eternal love and
fiidelity, without money, or property, but
with our strong hands and willing hearts,
to assist each other in forcing from the
elements of this desert land, the necessities
and comforts of life! And co-working to-
gether with all the saints, in the building
up of the kingdom of God.
	My husband was one of the traveling
Elders who had been called, in England, to
preach the gospel; so that like me, he had
not been to Zion before. I heard him give
some account of his labors, and a thrill of
holy joy ran through my soul, as I heard
the Prophet say “well done.”
	(continued on page 94.)


[Column 1]
(CONTINUED FROM PAGE 91)
ANGELINA.
	After a few days spent at head-quarters,
enjoying the hospitality of the saints, and
the delicious rest thus afforded us; after our
long and tedious journey, we started again
to a distant valley in company with some
of the older inhabitants, to form a new
settlement. As we left the comfortable
city, to march through the dreary wilder-
ness, I thought of what seemed to me a
still greater hardship and a still more dreary
journey, of our father Adam and our
mother Eve when, for so small an offence,
they were driven from Paradise.
	Weary and foot-sore we reached our
destination. It was a naked valley! Sur-
rounded by rocky mountains. Here we
sat down and wept (at least I did) then
prayed and sang praise to God.
	The leader of our party, a man made
venerable by wisdom and years, then rose
up—exhorted and instructed us how to
draw from the elements the necessities of
life. Then raised his hands and blest the
land, and the fountains of water, in the
name of Israel’s God.
	Here we essayed to live in tents and
wagons, huts or bowers, as best we could.
We were comparatively happy, while try-
ing to make each other so, and every one
of us labored with all our might to make a
field and plant it.
	For two full years we lived, in a tent, but

[Column 2]
by that time many comfortable houses had
sprung up, as it were, out of the ground;
and soon to our joy we found that the few
Redmen, of that solitary place, were glad
for us and the wilderness was beginning,
indeed, to blossom as the rose.
	We all lived near together for mutual
defence, and our Sabbaths were spent in
holy communion and worship. We
realized the blessing of heaven upon the
land, for it yielded in rich abundance.
	About this time I wrote the following
letter to my mother.

My Very Dear Mother:—
	I have written to you twice before, but
received no reply, my concern for you in-
creases, but still I cling to the hope that
this will find you alive and well.
	Through mercy I am well and happy,
more so than I have ever been before.
	It is now nearly seven years since I left
old England and came to this mountain
valley, then a bleak and barren wilderness,
but I came here with a company of saints
in obedience to the law of the Lord; and
He has greatly blest us for our obedience,
and has blest the land for our sake; so
that it now abounds with corn, fruit, and
vegetables of almost every kind. All
kinds of trees are growing up and bid fair
to become as large and beautiful as those
that surrounded the home of my childhood.
Children too are multiplying around us, I
have already added three to the number of
your grand-children, and often wish I had
you here to help me manage them.
	Dear mother, I have learned by experience
that it is good to try my best to be a saint
of God in very deed. Let us continue to
pray for each other that we may be delivered
from all error and false doctrine. That our
minds may be enlightened to know the
truth. To understand the will of the
Lord and do it.
	Dear mother, I can solemnly assure you
that I do know by the gift and power of the
Holy Ghost, that God has commenced His
marvelous work of the last days. To
build up, and establish His kingdom upon
the earth, for the salvation of all who
believe, and obey the gospel of his son; and
gather out from among the nations to the
place of His appointing. For surely
destruction will come upon the wicked.
	Dear mother, let me ask, are you not a
believer in Jesus? O mother! I know that
you believe. What does the Lord require
of you then? But first to obey the first
principles of the gospel, faith, repentance,
and baptism for the remission of our sins,
and the laying on of hands for the gift
of the Holy Ghost. Then shall it be given
you, to know for yourself, that your sins
are forgiven and that this is the kingdom
of God.
	With reference to the long journey to
this place, it is a great undertaking; but
the Lord, who has commanded, is our help-
er, and our experience in all our travels is
more of joy than sorrow. The whole
journey I managed, being young and
strong, to suffer but little. My greatest
pain was leaving you, it was to me a great
and abiding sorrow. But on board ship I
found plenty of work to do in assisting the
overtasked mothers, in the care of their
children. Wherever I could I lent a help-
ing hand and found comfort and peace in
trying to comfort others. Our land journey
was far more pleasant, we knew that we
were doing right, and there was love and
rejoicing generally in the Camp of Israel.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.								1


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE D. WELLS,	 -	-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $I.oo one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3 00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street,
second gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p m. every day, except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to 
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	DECEMBER 15th, 1892.


[Column 1]
﻿A HISTORIC HOUSE.
HOUSES have histories as well as in-
dividuals, and some of them pass through
a variety of singular experiences also like
their masters and mistresses, which written
up after the manner of Dickens for instance
might be very interesting to read even in
this day rich with incidents worth nothing.
To tell the various scenes that have been
enacted in many old habitations would be
to go over the events of many lives, and
might not be entertaining to those connected
therewith.
Whether notable or not the house now
occupied by the writer, is certainly histori
cal in many ways. Old and gray and
weather-beaten, built in the very earliest
time of the settlement of this great City,
and by its founder Brigham Young. Oc-
cupied first by members of his family, and
considered one of the homes of this great
leader and pioneer, whom Edward Tul-
lidge has designated as an empire builder.
The homes of all truly great men are in
a sense historic and of national value, and
Brigham Young’s name grows more and
more illustrious the world over as the
years roll by. At an early period in the
history of the house Daniel H. Wells came
to dwell in it, and here during his residence
therein were transacted many things per-
taining to the growth and advancement of 
public interests, pertaining to the Church
and the Territory, civil, political and mili-
tary as well as things spiritrual.
In the prime of his life, it may well be
said, Daniel H. Wells took up his abode in
the house as it originally stood—an adobe
structure of four rooms, afterwards adding
two more, larger than the others, remark-
ably spacious for those days. Several of
the Wells’ children (some of them now
quite widely known) were born here, and
many came to ask counsel and to hold com-
munication with its genial master. Meet-
ings of men who were taking up the cares
and responsibilities of a new government
were held in this room—for the last seven
years known as the little office of the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and deliberations

[Column 2]
and conclusions were arrived at, that had
weight with the community.
The old stone wall with its massive pil-
lars gives a sort of feudal dignity to the
place, and thousands of strangers, stop and
wonder, and some admire the tone and
style this superb, though homely, structure,
antique in its appearance, lends to the long
low dwelling it protects and shelters behind
its gates.
Leaving that past, the history of which
has been recorded in the History of Utah
by Bishop O. F. Whitney, we may with all
due propriety mention more recent matters 
pertaining to the old home known for forty
years as the Wells’ House.
There are in all communities leading wo-
men citizens as well as men, and in this
particular house perhaps as many of these
have gathered from time to time as in any
one house in Utah.
To some this may seem a little exagger-
ated but the facts will we are sure verify the
statement.
Eliza R. Snow, the President of the
Relief Society, the largest organization of
women, this side the Rocky Mountains
was a regular visitor here as long as she
lived and here in this very room most of
the business pertaining to the conducting
of the Society in all its several Stakes and
branches, not only in Utah but throughout
the world has been deliberated upon and
decided. Many thousands of letters per-
taining to this charitable organization have
been written here at this same desk, and
from here sent abroad to nearly all parts of
the civilized world.
Zina D. H. Young who succeeded the
former President, lias made this place her
headquarters in the same way, and still
continues to do so.
Meetings of several different organizations
have been held here regularly or at intervals,
where much has been planned relating to
the interests of women and their intellectual
and spiritual development. The preliminary
gatherings for the work of organizing
some quite important associations have been
held in this house, and credentials prepared
for those who have gone as delegates to
represent the respective associations at
headquarters in Washington and other
places East and West. All the preparatory
work for the Woman Suffrage Association
of Utah Territory, the selection of officers
and their appointments, the Constitution
and By-laws was done here, previous to
the public meeting held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall.
The Woman’s Co-operative Mercantile and
Manufacturing Inst’n. which represents con-
siderable capital and is managed entirely by
women was originated and held its earlier and
afterwards regular Board Meetings here for
some time.
The Utah Woman’s Press Club was or-
ganized and the Constitution formed here,
and holds its regular meetings in this same

[Column 3]
house. Without alluding to the improve-
ment made and the work done by this club
of writers, we can assuredly say it has been
a great pleasure to meet from time to time,
these bright intellectual women whose con-
stant effort is the advancement in the broad-
er paths and fields of the higher education
of the world of mankind including in its
largest sense womankind.
And now we come to the latest
organization effected here of which no
previous mention has been made in the
columns of our paper, The Reaper’s Club.
This is really a literary club of women, who
are past school or university life, but who
wish to keep pace with the progress being
made nowadays, in the great variety of
studies,such as history, ancient and modern,
current literature in all its forms and phases,
and whose interest in the intellectual and
moral development of the world is such as
stimulates them to make every effort pos-
sible for general enlightenment, moral,
spiritual and physical growth. The club
is limited to thirty members beside five
honorary members the topics so far have
been Queen Isabella, Columbus, Ferdinand,
The Reformation, Savonarola. Among the
things which make this an interesting house
old as it is and queer as it seems compared
with the modern cottages, is the great num-
ber of celebrated people, local travelers,
tourists who have made visits within its
time-honored walls, or calls long or short
at different periods since it was built.
In the palmy days of the early pioneers,
Squire Wells (as he was generally designat-
ed) did a great deal of entertaining; and
though those were the days of scarcity and
high prices, he was famous even then, for
his hospitality. Many dinners and evening
parties were given here to the brethren and
sisters, and upon occasions to men who
were occupied in official positions civil and
military.
Probably there are not one of the Apostles
of this or former times or those in authority
in this Church who have not been entertain-
ed at some one of these social gatherings in
this house, besides many hundreds of others;
not to speak of the many marriages
solemnized here, and other happy occasions;
and indeed of even the deaths of some
people of note, which are known to have
taken place in this old house.
Referring to celebrated people, who have
found welcome in this old house during our
sojourn therein, we may be excused perhaps
in mentioning foreigners, authors, editors
and people entitled to newspaper notoriety.
Among the many not literary have been
distinguished men in Church and state
throughout Christendom, also Barons, Dukes
and Military men, Duchesses, Countesses,
Dowager Countesses and many poets,
authors, lecturers, doctors and newspaper men
and women of more or less celebrity; besides
the people who have neither rank or title,
but simply want to see and hear.


[Column 1]
	People who have beeu attracted here 
because of this and that; some who have
had letters of introduction from those whom
we had met elsewhere or who had called
before, and some who felt drawn to the
place because of its quaint appearance and
surroundings, or from idle curiosity, or a
desire to know about the peculiar doctrines
of our faith, or were interested in questions
pertaining to woman’s advancement, en-
franchisement and higher education.
	Lastly the romance of this old place is
greatly enhanced by the many poems and
stories written here, and which perchance
were better from the very glamour, that
lingers round the place made sacred by so
many tender associations and recollections
of the past. In the great future which
awaits Utah, these memories may find place,
and the past as it reaches farther and farther
from view grow more rosy-hued and the
children of that generation look back with
a degree of pride and reverence on what was
written behind these “historic walls.” If
there was no sentiment in the world there
would be no poetry,and much of the history
of the heart as well as of the people would
be lost to mankind. We all like to know
not only what transpired in the past but the
feelings, affections and sentiments of those
who took part in the affairs of the times in
which they lived and flourished.
it seems a great pity that such houses
should be torn down, or to destroy the ro-
mance, that clings to these old primitive,
colonial homes of the early settlers who
distinguished themselves in the establish-
ment of the colonies and whose habitations 
are almost a part of their identity.
	But so it is and must necessarily be, the
old must give place to the new, and the
world move onward as the years roll by.
	In the days which we recall when this old
house was new and we were young, life
was quite different from that of the present
time. There were no regular mails, no
daily papers, few women’s papers here or
elsewhere, everything was very poor and
narrow and limited comparatively; women
did not only their own house-work, but
made soap and candles, spun and wove, did
their own knitting, dress-making and milli-
nery, but taught the children and helped in
all sorts of ways. We do not care to go 
back to those days, nor do we wish to see
people live in the old style, but we do hope
some of the old landmarks may be pre-
served to mark the days that are departed,
and to tell the tale of the early Pilgrims
who laid the foundation of this great and
flourishing city.
	Many are the pleasant associations con-
nected with this old house in the mind and
heart of the writer. Memories of loved
ones whose familiar forms and faces, seem
to haunt the rooms where they were wont to
linger and gladden with their sweet pres-
ence. That delightful past lives in its
richness still, and sweetens the lonely

[Column 2]
present with the fragrance of its per-
fume.
"Long, long be my heart with such memories 
     filled!
Like the vase in which roses have once been 
       distilled:
You may break, you may ruin the vase if you will,
But the scent of the roses will hang round it
      still."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WORLD’S FAIR AND SILK INDUSTRY.

	THE work for the World’s Fair or Columbian
Exposition is going on in the Territory in various
departments, and all sorts of legitimate ways and 
means are being adopted to raise money whereby
to forward the work of collections and exhibits.
There are many articles in process of construction
and it will not be very long until the women will
be able to report positively on some of the work.
Of one fact we feel assured that no other State or
Territory has made the showing in silk culture
and home manufacture of silk, that has been made
here and almost without capital; simply by the
active energy and enterprise of those who have
not only believed in home industries practically,
but have been willing to go to, and do with all
their might, by the exercise of brain and will-
power as well as their hands, whatever was pos-
sible to forward this laudable industry. A small
beginning certainly, and the results sometimes
discouraging, but when one goes over the whole
ground as we have been doing lately and estimates
the full amount of mulberry trees raised, of eggs,
worms and cocoons; of spinning, weaving, dyeing,
twisting, reeling, and manufacturing into articles,
such as sewing-silk, flosses, embroidery silks,
ribbons, laces, vails, handkerchiefs, dress-goods,
fringes, etc. It is quite a history of work,and has
been done with but very little machinery and
most of that of rude home construction.
The greater part of the work has been done by
women and children in all parts of the Territory,
and much credit is due Mrs. Zina D. H. Young
not only for encouraging this industry, but she
has traveled and worked more for it, we really
believe, than any other person. When Brigham
Young laid out his mulberry farm south of the
City (now Forestdale) and built there Mrs. Zina
Young -went down and took charge of the
cocooneries remaining (there one year until
there was a fairly good start of the enterprise.
She has been the pioneer worker in the silk all
the way through, and deserves the credit. She
was the President of the Deseret Silk Association
organized in 1875, the society having auxiliaries
in every county and nearly every town and
ward in Utah. Most of the people here know of
the great exertions made to raise cocoons and
make a success of this industry, but it languished
for lack of means, which ought to have been
forthcoming from those who had abundance to
have made it profitable and would thus have elderly
women, who could by this means have been self-
supporting when not able to do more laborious
work.
	The Legislature of Utah appropriated
fifteen hundred dollars to buy machinery but
through some mistake of the purchasers it did
not prove of the practical value expected. The
Relief Society has also given means, and
individuals as well have subscribed stock, but
because perhaps of gold and other mines yield-
ing wealth sooner, it has not been sustained in
the last few years as it was previously. Brigham
Young had the utmost faith in it and made the
very first start, sending into foreign countries for
the best seed to produce trees for the food of the
worms, as early in 1856. 
	Women and men have been emigrated from
foreign lands who were skilled in the employment
in various parts of the work thousands of dol-

[Column 2]
lars have been thus laid out, Father Graves of
Provo did more than any other man to further this
important home-industry. The WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT in its volumes contains the record of this
work with many interesting details. Now it is
hoped a new impetus will be given that will en-
rich the Territory and be more advantagous,
than many schemes that are receiving much at-
tention from capitalists and men and women who
are desirous of developing the country. Brigham
Young in his first sermon preached on the Temple
Block said, “The elements are full of silk” and
he was right, for it has been successfully proved,
as to the quality of the raw material. In the
centennial year, 1876 the display of our home
silk, in the Constitution Building attracted great
admiration from tourists and persons crossing the 
continent, who called to see what the people a
thousand miles from civilization had to show as
products of their industry and skill.
	In September 1880 when President Hayes with
wife and party visited the West, while here Mrs.
Hayes was presented from some ladies as a
souvenir of her visit with an elegant lace fichu,
which had been greatly admired by ladies who
had traveled in foreign lands where the most
elaborate and beautiful lace work is on exhibition
in public places.
	Of this fichu the cocoons were raised by Mrs.
Scheneter of this City (German) the silk prepared-
here and the lace weaving done by Mrs. Ursen-
bach formerly of the Jersey Isles. Our  limited
space prevents our saying more now but there is
much more might be written with all propriety
about what the women of this Territory have
done for silk culture.
	The silk portieres that the women of this Ter-
ritory are having made for the Woman’s Building
will be an elegant and appropriate gift. Made of
silk raised and prepared in skeins eleven or twelve
years ago by women for their own personal use,and'
designed and embroidered by our own artists,
these portieres will be effective in representing
our efforts in this direction.


A HAPPY EVENT.

"HAIL!  wedded love
Perpetual fountain of domestic sweets!"
	Married in Wallace, Idaho, on Monday,
December 12, 1892 Miss Daisie D. Woods and
Harry R. Allen, the ceremony was performed in
the Episcopal Church, which was beautifully
decorated for the auspicious event, and the newly
wedded bride and bridegroom, left soon after on
a wedding tour for San Francisco and other points
of interest on the Pacific Coast via Portland.
	The bride is our eldest grand-daughter and the
daughter of the late Bishop Newel K. Whitney's
youngest child, now the wife of Major W. W.
Woods the nephew of Gen. D. H. Wells.
	The bride is an accomplished young lady in
many ways and is well-remembered as a very fine
and sweet-toned singer.  She was until recently a
resident of Salt Lake City where she was born
and reared, and is highly esteemed by many dear
friends and relatives, who join with us in wishing
her the utmost happiness and prosperity in her
new relations in life.
	The bridegroom is an upright, honorable young
man highly respected among his friends and pos-
sesses good business capacity.  He is the son of an
Episcopal Clergyman of Chicago, and like the
bride a descendant of the Pilgrims.
	Mr. and Mrs. Allen will commence housekeep-
ing when they return from their trip to the Coast
and for their future happiness every good wish
is fervently expressed by their many friends.  It
is unnecessary to add they are great favorites in
the best society of Wallace, and as they are both
musically inclined will be sure to entertain well
in their own little Swiss Cottage among the pines


and ferns. May their future life be as sweet as the
songs they sing for others.
“The kindest and the happiest pair,
Will find occasion to forbear;
And something every day they live,
To pity, and perhaps forgive."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


CHRISTMAS TIME.

	Christmas time again and in some hearts the
full tide of joy is running over, others there are
whose homes are sad and whose souls cannot al-
waysanswerto themerrie.merrie Christmas greet-
ing s of the great wide world so much misery exists
for which no panacea is provided and none seems
practicable, and to the tender and sensitive soul
these sorrows that cannot be healed, the tears
that cannot be wiped away, are sources of unhap-
piness. Yet one must not frown on the world or
grow disgusted because all are not made happy
but each one try to do his share in relieving the
burden of want and care for some unhappy one,
thus sweetening one’s own Christmas day and of-
fering.
	It is good that this time of refreshing conies,
good for the children who need these pastimes,
good for grown people who need this change from
daily toil and to renew old time associations, or
family relations.
	Were there not some day set apart for relax-
ation and social reunions,life Would become,stupid
and monotonous, and sentiment in families die
out altogether as it is very nearly crushed now
with money making speculations. Business be-
fore pleasure has been so strongly applied that it
has come to be business before the expression of
affection even in the most tender relations of life.
And so thrice welcome Christmas! A respite for
the weary, a time to feel for the needy, to gather
one’s own family round, the table of cheer and
the hearthstone later, where stories, songs and
jests, fill up the time and old memories are awak-
ened and family incidents related that bind the
hearts of children to the homestead, and make
firmer the union of kindred and friends.
	For the children’s sake particularly we rejoice
in Christmas and for the tenderness it gives to
human hearts and for “auld acquaintance sake,”
and the precious tokens of remembrance that are
given and received on this blessed day, when for
the sake of Him whose birth we commemorate we
remember the poor and needy and His words
“Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of these
little ones, ye have done it unto me.”


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE beautiful Pansy Calendar of Grant
Bro’s. is a handsome souvenir of that en-
terprising firm, and will not only be a very
useful article of household value and an
ornament too, but is undoubtedly a good
advertising investment. It is certainly a
very lovely thing and not likely to get out
of sight on account of its size or lack of
beauty. We tender our thanks for the
holiday remembrance, and wish the firm
success in business ventures for the coming
year.
	THE stores and shop windows are bright
and gay with holiday goods of all descrip-
tions. Never before were there so many
beautiful things displayed as one sees
nowadays. The book stores however are
the most interesting to the writer, Duncan
Mc’ Allister is making a fine display, keeps
the newest books, and magazines, by the
most popular authors and editors, and has
many handsome and unique souvenirs and
gift-books of the newest patterns and in
great variety. Hargetts Bro’s have also a
fine colleotion in the same line' and style of


goods, and last but not least by any means
C. R. Savage’s Bazaar and Art Gallery is
packed full of everything nice and new in
that line and the genial proprietor, who has
cartered to the public taste for a quarter of a
century deserves the patronage of his old
friends and new ones too. His selections
in the way of books are all that could be
desired and his toys are almost more, for the
variety and profusion bewilder the purchaser
completely. Altogether Salt Lake cannot
complain of its book-sellers, for they keep
the market well supplied with fine stationery
and current literature.
	THE Woman’s Cooperative Store has
Christmas goods of a variety of kinds as
well as other goods for ladies and children
furnishes dress materials and trimmings and
the Dress-making parlors of the establish-
ment are ir. running order, employing
competent help and guarantee satisfaction
in the work. In Millinery also the store is
not behind other shops, and it is a good
place to get hats and bonnets, besides wor
men should patronize institutions managed
and conducted by women who have stepped
forward’ in the matter of business. Go to
the Woman’s Store and see what there is to
buy there before purchasing elsewhere.
	THE Juvenile Instructor is a good place
to do business in the way of Christmas
goods, they sell cheap, and supply country
demands: they keep a great variety of
stationery of the finest qualities, they have
a fine stock of the best books, all the Church
works, and are very accommodating. They
also have a good supply of toys, dolls,
games and many such like articles for
children and young folks, and there is
scarcely anything in this style of goods or in
this line that one cannot find at this fine
new building just East of the Templeton
Hotel. The Juvenile Instructor handsome-
ly bound would be an acceptable Christmas
Gift to almost any one, and is safe to recom-
mend in the way of reading matter.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Dear mother your daughter is still alive,
won’t you come over and see her before we
die. Even while I am writing, the dear
children are prattling about what they will
do and say when grandmother comes, and
they join with their father in best love to
you.
	May the Lord Almighty bless you dear
mother, and make you a blessing to me
and mine; is the earnest prayer of your
ever affectionate and dutiful daughter,
						Angelina.
	Little more than seven years had passed
away when my husband was sent on a
short mission to England, and when he
returned—O happy day!—he brought my
mother with him.
	My mother had been converted to the
faith, so she said, while praying for me
the spirit had enlightened her mind to
discern the truth. And here I am, again
realizing the joys of my childhood, as I
look with pride upon my mother with my
babe in her arms, for 1 have now four
children.

	Since I laid down my pen, mother and
years have passed away. The kingdom of
God is progressing, and the valleys of the
mountains are being filled with an industri-
ous, thriving and God-fearing people. The
wilderness and solitary place is glad for
them and is made to blossom as the rose
and now the bright grain is waving, the
gardens are full of wealth and beauty. In
the orchards apples, pears, peaches and
plums are hanging in rich abundance.
Avenues of trees are growing along our
streets, and our children are growing up
around us in the fear of the Lord, and in
the faith and wisdom of the kingdom.
	My mother, after being for years a bless-
ing to me and my children, has laid down
her life in peace, in a good old age, and the
star of my happy destiny shines upon her
grave.


FOR THE EXPONENT.
COMMUNINGS.
I have fairy-like dreams of the past,
And delicate visions of thee,
That come as the evening stars shine forth,
Far over the land and sea.
When the bright silvery moon looks down
With a celestial glow,
My spirit flies on wings of a dove,
And I roam in the long ago.
While joy notes blend in my happy heart,
With its life's deep and solemn rhyme,
And over the future's shining gate,
There is written a scroll divine.
There's a beautiful niche in my heart,
Ever sacred for such as thee;—
Sinless and pure from the world apart,
As the stars that light up the sea.
	L. M. H.


REMEMBERED.

Oh! the first sweet message from home,
	How it thrills my heart with delight,
As a beam from Heavenward flown,
	To illume my soul with its light.
Yes it breathes the sweetest of thought
	That a language ever could tell,
This little white paper has brought
	The news that my loved ones are well.

Another sweet consciousness too
	Is expressed, in silent sweet tone;
That I am remembered by you,
	Away in our dear mountain home.


And when thou in reverent mood
	Approaching the Father above;
Seek blessings for absent or good,
	Then I am remembered in love.

Like the air distilling its dew,
	Like stars to the darkness of night,
And flowers sweet fragrance and hue,
	Comes this beam of Heavenly light.
							S. R. E.


U. W. P. CLUB.
	THE U. W. P. Club convened in the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT "parlor" Nov. 30, 1892,
Mrs. E. B. Wells in the chair. Prayer was
offered by Mrs. L. G. Richards, minutes of
previous meeting read and approved. Roll
call responded to by original sentiments, or
gems of thought such as the following from
Mrs. L. G. Richards.
"Since character is the only structure thou cans't
	build,
That will not fall or fail thee,
	Oh! ambitious youth;
Build deep, build strong, build high, but only
	gild,
	And decorate with fair, untarnished truth."
	The secretary then read the yearly report
of the club, which was accepted by the
members.
	Miss N. V. Davis, in a mos pleasing and
realistic manner, continued her description
of "A Trip to Alaska" to the great enjoy-
ment of all present.
	The club was next favored with a poem
entitled, "Thanksgiving," written and read
by Mrs. R. M. Fox.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells called attention to the
fact that the U. W. P. C. had been organ-
ized on Halloween, and hoped that another
year we might celebrate it in an original
way; which suggestion was put as a motion
and voted upon; a committee to be appoint-
ed the previous meeting for the arrange-
ment of the same. Mrs. E. B. Wells and
Miss Davis then read selections from
"Burns" illustrative of the character of the
day as observed in Scotland.
	An original poem was then read by Mrs.
Phebe C. Young.
	An able, interesting, and instructive
article, on the "World's Fair," written
and read by Mrs. Lillie T. Freeze.
	The suggestion of a programme com-
mittee by Mrs. E. B. Wells was favorably
received, and followed by the appointment
of Mrs. Lula Greene, Richards, Mrs.
Mary Freeze and Mrs. Georgina Young as
that committe to act during the winter.
An amendment to article iv of the "By
Laws," of the club, was offered by Mrs.
Phebe C. Young, in the form of a motion
viz, that we have four Vice Presidents at
large, instead of one as heretofore the
motion was carried, and Mrs. Susa Y. Gates
and Mrs. Julia A. Mac Donald, were ap-
pointed for those positions.
	The Motto and Badge were again discus-
sed, but no satisfactory conclusion arrived
at regarding them. Refreshments were
partaken of, while discussing critics and
criticism in the club. Benediction R. M.
Fox.
	Programme for Dec. 30th. Roll call
exercise Holiday sentiments original lines.
Original poem. Miss N. V. Davis. Mrs.
C. C. R. Wells, article on. the close of the
year, 1892 Mrs. Dickinson, descriptive
poem. G. Woodmansee, music. Discust
sion and decision on the Badge and Moto-
by the club. 
	GLADYS WOODMANSEE, Rec. Sec.


A PLEASANT EVENING.
	A few friends met by invitation at the residence
of Mrs. Belinda P. Musser, on Tuesday evening
December 6, and passed the time in delightful
conversation. Among the guests were Presidents
Angus M. Cannon and C. W Penrose, also Mr.
Charles Ellis, Laron Pratt and others. Mrs. Zina
D. H. Young, Dr. E. S. Barney, Dr. R. B. Pratt,
Miss Annie M. Cannon, Mrs. Laron Pratt, Miss
Maude Pratt, the last named young lady sang a
few favorite songs in charming voice and style.
Miss Pratt is not only a fine singer but willing to
gratify and entertain her friends who love to hear
vocal music.
	Mrs. Musser’s supper was a complete success
and was handsomely served. There seemed to
be nothing lacking in the way of variety, and
every dish well-cooked and seasoned to the most
fastidious taste, the guests enjoyed it and did
ample justice to the abundant feast of good things.
These social reunions help to brighten the long,
cold winter evenings, and the renewal of old
acquaintances is in itself a pleasure.—ED.


ONE OF A STRING OF PEARLS.
	WITH the waning days of December we com-
mence to turn new leaves and register new vows.
How just and brave and true we are going to be
after January 1st! That fellow whom we have
done our best to injure we are going to forgive.
That special peccadillo we have cherished we are
going to abandon. That debt we have shirked
we are going to pay. And so we enter upon the
untried year as children start to school on Mon-
day morning, with clean bibs and faces. Alas!
how many of us come tagging home at the end ol
the year, like these same children at the close of
the day, tatters, soiled garments and tears. But
however much we fail, and however hopelessly
we fall short of the standard set before us, never
let us give over striving, my dear. The time
spent in forming all these good resolutions is not
wasted time, any more than that time is misspent
which a steamer spends in coaling up. The
wheels rest while the furnace fires take on a rud-
dier light the contention down in the furnace
room among the rods and pistons and valves is
hushed for awhile, while the great ship takes on
new fuel. Just so the soul grows richer by that
divine impulse which holds it to the dock of a
good intention. Even he who stumbles most,
yet keeps walking between falls, is better than he
who sits on a fence and whittles his idle life away
in useless shavings, like a truant school-boy with
a pine stick and a new jack-knife. Is it not better
that those children of ours, those precious little
feather-heads who give us so much trouble now
and then, should promise and faithfully try to be
good, than that they should never make an effort
toward right-doing? And to the Father who
watches us so patiently out of heaven as we
stumble and riot along our way, is it not far bet-
ter in His eyes that we aspire, even though we
seldom attain? The eagle that attempts to soar,
even though his wings are clipped, has more of
the eagle nature in him than one that is content
with his cage and with his keeper.		SELECTED


COLUMBUS.
	GENOA has become immortalized as the
birth-place of Columbus. The years 1433-
1435 are given by different authors as the
time of his birth. It seems fitting
that so sublime a mariner should be brought
forth and reared on the shores of the sea.
Columbus lived in an auspicious time. The
15th century, like the 19th, the 5th and the
10th, has been noted a period of great
transition. Some of the greatest artists
and sculptors flourished. The printing
press, the mariners compass, the use of
gunpowder, the astrolobe were then known.
So also a reformation in Christianity was
necessary, and the teachings of the Martyr
Savonarola, and the doctrines of Luther
were brought forth. So too Columbus ap-
peared at the appointed hour when our
earth and intellect demanded him, he
received his instruction at the University of
Pavia, where he devoted his time to the
study of navigation, the natural sciences
and nautical astronomy.
	His thoughts were set on religion and
business alike. Like the Mediterranean
mariners of the present day he engaged in


[column 1]
commerce. He never began a letter with-
out writing a line of prayer in Latin in-
voking the aid of Christ. He read the
Bible from beginning to end, believed in
its prophecies respecting the discovery of
America and could repent the Catholic
prayers like any priest; he was an ac-
complished navigator, and repeatedly made
practical voyages. In 1477 he says he
sailed 100 leagues north of the Island of
Thule, or Iceland, but does not seem to
be aware of the traditions of the Scandi-
navians respecting the discovery of
America by the Norsemen 500 years
previous. He sailed south as far as the
coast of Guinea, the Island possessions
of Spain and Portugal, as the Azores,
Madeira, Canary and also the Island of the
Meditteranean. The stories and legends
of the great wealth of India were then
agitating the minds of the people of
Southern Europe. Commerce with India
was then carried on by way of land, the
route around the Cape of Good Hope was
not then known.
	Columbus was desirous of shortening the
route to Asia by sailing westward and thus
facilitating trade. He was convinced of
the sphericity of the earth; but believed
in the dimensions assigned to it by Ptolemy
which were much less than the actual size,
and that the solid parts of the earth ex-
ceeded the liquid. He also over estimated
the size of the Asiatic Continent. His
theory was that if he sailed west beyond
the possessions of Portugal and Spain, he
would soon reach the eastern coast of Asia.
Had he known of the immensity of the
actual distance westward to Asia, it is
doubtful that he would have discovered
America. In 1470 we find Columbus in
Lisbon. His presence here is like the
presence of artists in Rome, Lisbon was
one of the greatest maratime cities of the
age, engaged in commerce with all the
known nations of the earth.
	Here he married Felipa Perestrello the
daughter of a discoverer. The Island of
Porto Santo was conferred on the family of
Perestrello for some achievement, by Don
Henry of Portugal. Here Columbus re-
paired after his marriage and learned many
things advantageous in his future discover-
ies. Columbus had several conferences
with the king of Portugal who listened to
him with favor, but his demands were so
great that Don John did not comply. He
however decided to appropriate the designs
and ideas of Columbus and make the
discovery for himself so under pretense of
provisioning the Cape Verde Islands, he
sent out an expedition to follow the course
mapped out by Columbus. This proved a
failure and when Columbus learned of the
treachery of Don John his indignation was
so great he decided to quit Portugal im-
mediately. His wife having died, he took
his only child Diego, intending to lay his
claims before the Spanish sovereigns. He
also sent Bartholomew, his brother 1485 to
obtain assistance from the English
monarchs, Bartholomew was taken by
the Corsairs, chained to the oar as a gal-
ley, but after three years escaped gained an
audience with King Henry of England, who
was pleased with his plans, but from whom
he received no assistance. Columbus did 
not obtain an audience with Ferdinand and
Isabella until 1487, but he now had some
powerful allies who espoused his cause, among
which were the Dukes Medin Celi and
Medin Sidonia the great Cardinal Mendoza
whose power was such that he was styled
the third King of Spain. Columbus seems

[column 2]
to have arrived at the Spanish Court at an
inauspicious time. Ferdinand and Isabella
were then engaged in the expulsion of the
Moors and the conquest of Granada, and
could think of no rival undertaking, he
however received personal aid as the
treasurer's accounts show that sums of
money were paid him in May 1847, Aug.
1847, Oct. 1847, June 1846, to defray his 
expenses.
	In despair he went to Cordova the home
of Beatrice and his son Ferdinand. Thence
to the convent of La Rabida where the
good monks entertained him and were
astonished and charmed with his scientific
and religious ideas. They interceded with
the Queen in his behalf. She summoned
him to Santa Fe where he was promised a 
hearing after the conquest of Granada, he
gladly remained and engaged valiantly in
the fight. Jan 2nd 1492, Boabdil with his
brilliant following surrendered to Don
Ferdinand. Columbus now presented his
claims, he demanded the supreme office of
admiral, viceroy over the lands he should
discover, of the revenues resulting there-
from, and as the means of successful dis-
covery, he asked for three caravels and a
good allowance of money.
	The Queen complained of these
exorbitant demands and he was abruptly
dismissed. He again thought of repairing
to France, when a wealthy Jew Santangelo
and the Marchoiness Moya interposed in
his favor. In April 1492 the argument
known as the Capitulations of Santa Fe
was signed granting Columbus all he asked.
	The expedition consisted of the Santa
Maria with a crew of 50 men commanded
by the Admiral, the Pinta with 30 men
commanded by Martin Pinzon and the Nina
with 24 men commanded by Vincente Pinzon
	On Friday which was a day of good
omen Aug. 3, 1492, Columbus set sail from
Palos and stood out for the Canary Isles.
After an eventful voyage of 10 weeks, land 
was seen by a sailor, of the Nina, Rodrigo
De Friano Oct. 12, Friday 1492. This was
called by the natives Guanahani and by
Columbus San Salvador. Columbus besides
discovering many small Islands, discovered
Cuba and Hayti. The products of Hayti
were so much like those of Spain, that he
named it Espanolia or little Spain. On the
coast of Hayti the Santa Maria was so
badly wrecked, it had to be abandoned and
from it was built Ft. Nativity. The ad-
miral being desirous of returning to Spain
to report the good news, left Arana a kins-
men of Beatrice in command as governor of
the improvised fort.
	Martin Pinzon the commander of the
Pinta in his desire to find gold had deserted
the expedition, so the admiral had to re-
turn in the Nina, Jan, 4th 1493, he started.
On the homeward voyage a terriffic storm-
threatened destruction, and Columbus fear-
ing that all would be lost, wrote a des-
cription of the new found-land sealed it in
a keg and threw it overboard, trusting that
by the grace of God his precious secret
might fall into good hands. He reached
Palos, Friday March 5th, 1493. Columbus
seated before their majesties, told of the
new found land, exhibited the mysterious
plants, the strange beasts and birds, the
gold and the nine Indians who were to be-
come Christians. Columbus now had
reached the zenith of his glory. All his
honors were conferred on him, and pro-
positions were made for a second voyage.
This time 1500 persons went to colonize, to
Christianize the inhabitants and make more
discoveries. The Island Domnicia was

[column 3]
reached Nov. 3, 1493 after a most success-
ful voyage. This time he discovered Porto
Rico and Jamaica. Fort Nativity was
burned and the inhabitants deserted.
	He remained until 1496 discovering more
Islands and gold in considerable quantities.
He also established the West Indian Slave
Trade. In his great desire to obtain gold
he became avaricious, rumors of his misrule
reached Isabella who summoned him to
Spain. He reached Cadiz June 15, 1496,
in a state of great dejection; he was how-
ever again received into favor and asked for
mere supplies and ships which were granted
him. May 1498 he started on his third 
voyage. This time he discoverd the conti-
nent of South America which he supposed
was another collection of Islands until he saw
the immense quantity of water, the Orono-
co carried to the Ocean he knew that it was
a continent for which he had long sought. 
He then returned to the West Indies, sent
five ship loads of Indians to Spain as slaves
which so incensed Queen Isabella that she
ordered their release. More rumors of the 
mismanagement of Columbus reached Spain.
Their majesties accordingly commissioned
Boabdilla to go to Hayti and inquire into 
the trouble. On reaching Espanalioa he put
Columbus and his two brothers in irons.
	But he was once more forgiven and re-
ceived into favor, in May 1502 with four
caravels and 150 men he started on his 4th
and last voyage, from which he returned in
1504 and as he was too ill to go to court,
his son Diego represented him. Columbus 
died May 1506. His will states that the
honor or admirality shall fall on Diego and
his heirs male, failing these Fernando and
his heir, failing these Bartholomew and his
heirs male. The male issue of the admiral
became extinct in the third generation and
the estates and titles possessed by marriage
to a scione of the house of Broganza,
buried at Valladolid thence to Seville thence
to Hayti thence to Havanna.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


DOCTOR MATTIE HUGHES CANNON,
	Office: II South, First West Street.
Office practice for Diseases of Women from 2
	until 4 p. m.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
	Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lat s
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmedt
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
	No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
			Three doors west of Theatre.

MRS: M.E. VAN. M. E. VAN, M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p.m.

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	AVD JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAK  CIY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 21.  SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1893. No. 13.


CONTENTS:
	Passing Thoughts—By Camelia. Woman’s
Work on the Sandwich Islands, III.—E. D. N.
The XXVth N. A. W. S. A.	A Trip to England.
From the Press Committee—Harriet Taylor
Upton. U. W. P. Club. Woman’s Progress—
Ellis R. Shipp. Ferdinand. W. S. A.,Salt Lake
Co. Notes and News. Obituaries.
	EDITORIAL:—Hail the Glad New Year.
Holiday Journals. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:— Memory’s Dream. — E. B. W.
Fancy’s Greeting.—Alofa. A Dream of August.
Tranquility—L. M. H.


MEMORY’S DREAM.

I DREAM’D of the hills and the streams far away
	Of hemlock and pine and the fragrance they
		shed,
The holiday seasons so joyful and gay
	Fair visions, bright pictures of days that are
		dead.

These come in the night-time when lonely I weep,
	And list to the wind, and its voices of song,
These soothe me with echoes and lull me to sleep,
	As I hear the soft tread of the ages along.

And the friends I have lov’d and the faces I’ve
		known,
	Grow familiar and greet me as erst long ago;
And the fall of their footsteps at night when alone
	Is hushed as the shadows that wave to and fro.

The voices of night in the winds and the waves,
	The deeds of the past and its mystery tells,
Wild symphonies chanted over the graves
	Of the loved ones,is sweeter than music of bells.

As we sit by the fire so sweetly we dream
	Forgetful of self and the things of today;
How brightly soever the present may seem
	The scenes of one’s childhood will linger alway.

The echoes that slumber’d are waken’d tonight,
	Their, silvery notes are afloat in the air.
How they ripple and dance in playful delight
	To music delicious of memories rare.

Listen! the vales and the mountains are teeming
	With melody gushing in rhythms and rills,
While we sit enraptur’d bver our dreaming,
	The glory of Angels is lighting the hills.
								E. B. W.


FANCY’S GREETING. 

In the voice of the great roaring billows,
	Rolling in from the land far away—
In the whispering sound of the palm leaves,
	Being stirred by the breezes at play—
In the note of the bird as it twitters
	To its mate that is soaring above:
We imagine we hear a fond message
	From home—a sweet message of love.

In the low, rippling song of the brooklet—
	In the hurrying buzz of the bee—
In the chirp of the cricket at night-fall—
	In the echoes from over the sea—
In the patter of rain-drops so gentle,
	Which the clouds in their mercy let through:
In fancy we hear loving voices
	Call, “A glad, merry Christmas to you.”

On the beautiful gold of the moon beams—
	On the soft, fleecy clouds in the sky—
On the blue that lies smiling beyond them—
	On the stars that are beaming on high—


On the face of all glorious Nature,
	These words to my vision appear:
“We wish you a bright, merry Christmas
	And a prosperous, happy New Year.”

Let the song that is sung by the fireside—
	Let the tones of the organ that swell—
Let the jingling of silvery sleighbells—
	And the youth’s merry laughter as well—
Let the snow as it falls in great masses
	From the tree with its branches wide-spread,
Or floats like soft down from the heavens,
	Whisper back these fond words in my stead.

May the pictures that smile from their hangings,
	Or on frost painted windows appear—
May the fanciful forms in the fire-light—
	May the rays of the sun bright and clear—
May each image—each fancy that greets you—
	Bear this message from far o’er the blue:
That we, though far off in the tropics,
	Wish a glad, merry Christmas to you.

When the gray of the morning is dawning—
	When the sun slowly rises on high—
We’ll imagine the angels are bearing
	Our message of love through the sky;
We'll imagine once more they are singing,
	And that this welcome chorus we hear:
“We wish you a bright, merry Christmas
	And a prosperous, happy New Year.”
								ALOFA.
Samoa, Dec. 5th, 1892.


[COLUMN 1]
PASSING THOUGHTS.
[By Camelia, a former Contributor.]
    Now the Christmas, with its merry mak-
ing and gift giving and glad feasting is
over and the new year with its happy
wishes, strong resolutions and bright hopes
is upon us, we begin to question, are we
better or happier or kinder; are we, what a
year since we hoped and expected to be,
have we advanced or has time found us
just as we were a year ago, with hopes un-
satisfied, with promises unfulfilled. It is
even so for mankind is ever striving, ever
seeking, no matter how much has been
gained. The sweet contentment of the
miller of the Dee is seldom if ever
found in these days and few are they, the
burden of whose song can be “I envy no-
body no not I and nobody envies me,”
yet we all think contentment is a happy
gift, why not strive to obtain it. Make
that, the new year’s resolution.
	With the first month of the year the busy
housewife is in somewhat of a quandary
what to do. There is a lull in the home
after all the holiday festivities, and it is far
too early to make preparations towards the
spring sewing. In the large cities and
perhaps in the west also during this month
very fine bargains can be made in linen and
this is a most excellent time to examine the
linen closet. Repair by that tedious labor
darning and sort over all the old linen to
determine how long it might last, before
making new purchases. In linen as in almost
all goods it pays one to buy as good quality
as the purse can possibly afford. Of course
the dainty linen with handsome enbroidery
andd rawn work are very lovely, but they
is or should be beyond the means of all,

[COLUMN 2]
save the very rich, for they are an unnec-
essary luxury and look no better, while
they, last not half so long as fine Irish linen.
There is nothing prettier than snowy linen
for the table and nothing easier laundried
therefore though the colored and fringed
borders are very attractive in the shops, it
is neither good taste nor economy to pur-
chase them, the fringe soon becomes ragged
and snarled, and even with greatest care in
combing it becomes thin long before the
linen is worn, while the borders frequently
fade and shrink. I recall a very handsome
table set with a border of fans. It was the
best linen and lasted for years, but after the
first washing it was a continual worry to
the owner, for the border was so shrunken
that it looked like a drawing string had
been run through to make it fit the table.
This lady always avoids colored borders
now though she admits all of them do not
shrink.
	Every body nowadays is in such a rush,
for it is so short a time until the opening of
the World’s Fair, and of course every one
belongs to some club or is on some com-
mittee, and so nany little kindnesses we
used to do are now neglected if not for-
gotten. And the little child and the aged
and the invalid who often had the morning
brightened by a pleasant call, a pretty re- 
membrance, an invitation to dine or
some other little attention now waits in vain,
for the thoughtful friend has so many engage-
ments and is so very busy she never has
time for anything, and yet do we not have
all the time there is and if in the hurrying
and worrying we sometimes stop and
throw a kiss, with a thought to those less
busy, because unable ones how much
happier we make ourselves and them.
	This is a time, however, when in the
course of human events it becomes neces-
sary “excuse the familiar quotation” that
all who are able should be up and doing 
and hustle up a little, so to speak, for with-
in a very short time now, the eyes of the
world will be upon us and it behooves us
all to do ourselves proud.
	We must forget now all differences of
opinion socially, politically and religiously,
and remember only that we are Americans
bound together by one great love—our
country’s love—protected by that country’s
flag. In almost every state, territory,
county, city, township, village all over this
broad land are men and women planning
and working for the great fair. What a 
glorious result the whole will be, if each
individual strives to do the best.  Such
perfection, such excellence is incompre-
hensible and nothing but a trip to Chicago
will cause one to realize the marvelous
greatness of his country or the rapid evo-
lutions of the century. 
	There are so many new books now that
all one’s time might be spent in reading and
then not the half be read, so the busy ones
have to content themselves by merely read-
ing the reviews in the magazines and news-
papers and in fact that is a very good way
to read a book, unless it is something
wonderful or instructive. Time spent over
the silly novels of today is time wasted, a


good book is always a pleasure and a de-
light and if the reviewers are just, we easily
know what books to read and place upon
our library  shelves. Speaking of books,
why not think for a moment of those bor-
rowed ones not yet returned. If a book is
good enough to borrow it certainly is good
enough to return. How very neglectful
we all are in this little matter, and yet often
times a handsome set is broken by the loss
through just such carlessness as forgetting
to return a book. Arranging the library is
a delightful occupation in the wintry
months. So few put the book back just
where it belongs and yet every one likes to
be able to find the wanted book in a
moment, for myself I like m[-] books so
arranged that I can lay my hand on the
volume sought, in the dark, and they
nearly always are. If one places value on
one’s books avoid filling the shelves too full
for then the covers become rubbed by com-
ing in contact with each other. It is a good
idea to cover the shelves with some soft
material so that the book edges do not be-
come worn or scratch the shelves. Books
if not often used should occasionally be re-
moved and dusted, and the leaves opened.
We used to fancy when a man talked about
his “den” or study that it was a place, true
enough, for books but full of disorder with
bits of paper all over, and dust all over,
and books all over, but how different, these
rooms are. I think they are the most de-
lightful rooms in the house for if one values
books sufficiently to purchase a fine col-
lection, he certainly values them enough to
take care of them, and usually the library is
the most attractive room in the house, both
for the arrangement and care of the room
as well as the wealth of thought it con-
tains.


WOMAN S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

WOMAN'S WORK ON THE SAND-
WICH ISLANDS.—III.

[Concluded.]
	ON Saturday Aug 20th, after bidding a
warm "Aloha nui" to the kind people
around us, whose strains of sweet music
had scarcely ceased during the night, and
whose enthusiasm had brought them to-
gether again to see us off on our journey—
perhaps never to return—we started our
horses in the streams which formed part
of the road to the foot of the Pali, and in
ascending we cast a lingering look on the
unique little village below and repeated
our "Aloha" for its people, much to the
satisfaction of our companions.
	After going back as far as Kukuihaele
we turned westward gradually ascending
the broad plateau between Hamakua and
Kohala which rises to a height of from 1,000
to 2,000 ft, seperating the mountains of
Kohala in the North, which are 5,500 high,
from Mauna Rea in the South. The entire
scene reminds us of home with its extended
belt of forest land, through which rove
numberless herds of cattle. The climate is
also a gentle reminder for we felt quite
comfortable with our wraps on.
	At 2'clock we reached Maimea a distance
of eleven miles from Waipio, we were more
than usually delighted on our arrival at this
Branch, and our burden of responsibilities
seemed suddenly to leave us, and content-
ment of spirit took the place of care. We
had long desired to meet with the Elders
laboring on that island whom we knew
were ahead of us, but not until then was
our desire granted. Such a warm clasp of
the hand as Elder Giles always gives would

[Column  2]

make most any one forget that there were
any trials to contend with in the missionary
field. The spirit of the Gospel which
makes all men brothers can never be more
fully realized than when missionary meets
missionary at his field of labor. We are
strong believers in woman's rights, but we
did appreciate, upon this occasion, being
where there was a man to rely upon. Next
morning Sunday 21st, was the conference
of that Branch and we had the privilege of
attending the S. S. general meetinng and
Y. M. M. I. after which the R. S. con-
vened, and all the saints present attended
the meeting.
	This is a small Branch and the saints
have not been as alive to their duties as
they might have been, but the Sisters ex-
pressed a desire to renew their efforts in the
benevolent work of women. Monday was
necessarily spent in resting until horses
could be obtained to further our journey.
	Tuesday morning however we were en-
abled to go on to our places of appointment,
and after bidding good bye to those who
had assisted us for over 40 miles on our
journey, we mounted our horses for a
twenty-five mile ride to Halaua in the North
Kohala District. Riding horse-back through
pleasant scenery to one accustomed to
horses, might be a pleasure trip, but to one
who is not it becomes a very arduous task.
The scenery was unlike that through which
we had previously passed. In the place of
a dense undergrowth of vegetation, it is
most of the way barren and rocky, and rises
and descends gradually. At 6 o'clock we
arrived at Halawa tired and exhausted from
onr long. ride. Here we had the pleasure
of meeting with Elder Hezekiah Duffin and
Brother Giles missionary companion of
that island.
	Thursday the 25th, with horses for only
half of our company we started out for
Honokani a distance of five miles, Elders
Giles, Duffin and assistants, made cheerful
pedestrian companions. I can imagine
some of our dear friends at home would
have enjoyed seeing us on those little don-
keys wending our zigzag way down the al-
most perpendicular face of the mountain.
But the sure footing of our little animals
removed much of our uneasiness in the
rough descents.
	The Gulch of Pololu through which we
passed, and that of Honokani, the town of
our destination, are similar to that of Waipio
and others previously described.
	The R. S. organization at Honokani is a
lively one, wide awake to their duties and
is managed as satisfactorily as any with
which we have met, the sweet singing, by
young members of the Society as interpersed
through the meeting was a very pleasing
feature.
	We returned in the evening to Halama
and early next morning boarded the narrow
guage train for Mahukona a distance of
twenty-five miles, leaving Elders Giles and
Duffin at their field of labor from which they
expected to return in about four weeks.
	We arrived at Mahukona at 10 a. m. the
Steamer Kinau was already anchored in the
Bay awaiting the arrival of the train. A
larger number than usual was on board and
we had some trouble in securing berths, but
we finally succeeded in getting comfortably
situated and playing well our part as poor
sailors, we turned our faces towards Hono-
lulu. Our troubles however were of short
duration as the ocean was so calm it was
hard to imagine we were at sea. On reach-
ing the island of Maui Brother and Sister

[Column 3]

Duffin come on board at Maalaea and go
over to Lahaina a distance of fifteen miles
on the coast of Maui.
	We arrived at Honolulu at 5 o'clock on
the morning of the 27th, met with the R. S.
at that branch, after which we procured a
one horse vehicle and started 'or Laie,
anxious to see the little ones from whom
we had for the first time been absent. We
arrived there near midnight found all well,
for which we felt thankful to our Father in
heaven, Sisters Harding and Grace, who
had been left in charge of domestic affairs,
were pleased to see us back again and like
the rest of our missionary family, were sur-
prised to know that we had completed our
journey of about 580 miles by water, 100
miles horseback 25 miles by train and 64
by cart, in so much shorter time than ex-
pected and had held eleven meetings dur-
ing the three weeks we were absent from
the plantation. Our hearts were filled
with gratitude to our Father in heaven
for His protecting care that had been
over us during our absence. Our faith
has been strengthened and we trust we have
helped to strengthen that of others, and
that the seeds we have sown have fallen
into good ground and that some day they
will bring forth fruit that will ripen into
a rich reward forthe benevolent work of
the R. S. of the Hawaiian Islands.
			E. D. N.


THE XXVTH N. A. W. S. A.
	The XXVth Annual Convention of the
National American Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation will be held in Metzerott’s Music
Hall, January 15-19 1893, Washington,
D.C.
	This convention will open on Sunday
with a religious service, Rev. Anna F. East-
man preaching the sermon,
	Among the speakers are Hon. Carroll D.
Wright, who will give an address on
Women in Industry, Mrs. Carrie Lane
Chapman—Comparisons are Odious, Rev.
Anna Howard Shaw—The Attitude of
Women Toward Political Parties, Ellen
Battelle Dietrick—The Best Methods of
Interesting Women in Suffrage, Mrs. Lillie
Devereux Blake—Legal Disabilities, Sara
Winthrop Smith—Suffrage a Right of
Citizenship, May Wright Sewall—Municipal
Housekeeping.
	Senator Joseph Carey of Wyoming will
give the Address of Welcome, and Susan
B. Anthony the annual President’s Ad-
dress.
	In addition to these addresses there will
be interesting reports read by Harriet Tay-
lor Upton on Congressional Work, Mrs.
Clara Bewick Colby on Federal Suffrage,
Mary H. Williams on Governor’s Opinions
on Woman Suffrage, Rachel Foster Avery
on Columbian Exposition Work, Laura
Clay on Southern Work.
	Other speakers invited are: Rev. David
Gregg, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Mrs. Lucy
Stone, Rev. Anna Garlin Spencer, Hon.
Wm. Dudley Foulke, Laura DeForce Gor-
don, Mrs. Bertha Honore Palmer, H. B.
Blackwell, Ruth D. Havens, Senator War-
ren of Wyoming, and Harriet May Mills.
	There will be discussions on a number of
nteresting subjects and it is hoped that the
presidents of thirty-two States now auxili-
ary to the N. A. W. S. A. will be present
and report their progress throughout the
year.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A DREAM OF AUGUST.

THE slumbrous warmth of August lay,
	O'er Autumn's gorgeous flowers,
I could not still my dreaming soul
	Had neither will, nor power,
So yielded all my being up,
	To the influence of the hour.

Fettered and bound by earthly clay,
	I've sought a higher goal,
This once, with eager lips I drank
	Light which o'er earth doth roll;
Oh "stolen waters" sweet, to feed,
	The hunger of my soul.

The sound of music faint and dim
	Came o'er the grassy leas,
The perfumed glory of my youth,
	No adverse fate could freeze,
Made gracious every sight and sound
	Beneath the Park's dark trees.

Alone and still one face, one form,
	One presence dear was nigh,
And tenderly, hand clasped in hand;
	We let the hours drift by,
Enraptured with the bliss of Earth;
	Together, you, and I. 

I did not ask, why, all to late
	This precious boon was given?
Nor question by a single look,
	The wise decrees of heaven;
But grateful, drank the one rare draught
	By that same power given.

A lily bowed her graceful head,
	Soft swayed her slender rods,
With lips of fragrant purity,
	She kissed the emerald sods,
Our souls entranced with love divine
	Drank nectar with the gods.

And I forgot that earth held graves;
	Life's desolated years,
I did not waste one precious thought,
	On transient human tears;
But in one golden sheaf I bound
	The scattered hopes of years.

That stately form—those deep, dark eyes,
	So full of love's desire;
Such love, as in the breasts of men
	Will noblest deeds inspire
Such love, as lights Earth's darkest path
	With Heaven's celestial fire.

But I awoke, my dream was done,
	Back came Life's hopeless pain,
Hot tears of sorrow and despair
	Swept down like Autumn rain.
Oh God! When free from doubt and sin,
	Shall we two meet again?


TRANQUILITY.

In this tumultous sphere for thee unfit,
	How seldom art thou found tranquility!
Unless perchance with mild and downcast eye,
	By lowly cradles thou delight'st to sit
Of sleeping infants—watching the soft breath,
	Bidding the sweet slumbers easy lie;
Or sometimes standing o'er the bed of death,
	Where the poor sufferer hopeth soon to die.
Blest beauteous sister of the halcyon peace!
	I trust to meet thee in that heavenly scene,
Where care and anguish shall their power resign
	Where hope alike, and vain regret shall cease;
And memory lost in happiness serene,
	Repeat no more that misery hath been mine.
			L. M. H.


[Column 1]

A TRIP TO ENGLAND.

	IN the evenings when promenading the
deck was out of order, we would all assem-
ble in the saloon and pleasantly wile away
the hours until bed time, by indulging in
games, music etc.
	And thus, in spite of sea sickness and
other minor inconveniences, I enjoyed my-
self immensely; never once wishing that I
had not come or that I was on land; as so
many of the passengers did and after my
week's sickness was over and I again found
an appetite, which I was privileged to
gratify by taking my place at the saloon
table, without any misgivings of impend-
ing accidents, I began to wish that we were
going to be on the water another week,
indeed the thought of so soon terminating
this pleasant voyage, did not in the least
please me.
	But all things must have an end, Tis said
that "Nothing in this world can last," and
when at about 10, 30 of the morning of the
25th, the assembled throng of anxiously
watching passengers on deck sent forth the
cry of  "Land, Land" and we could discern
in the far off distance a tiny speck which
which was said to be a portion of the shore
of Ireland, I began to think that the begin-
ning of the end had come.
	It was a sight to see the now animated
and happy passengers, running to and fro,
calling to each, pointing to the light houses
and various objects as they gradually came
into sight. Seeing them all so overjoyed
at the sight of Terra Ferma; after so short and
pleasant a voyage, I was led to reflect upon
and wonder what must have been the great
rapture and excitement that prevailed on
the occasion when Columbus and his crew,
after a voyage so lengthy and so full of
perils and suspense, were reward for all
past dangers and disappointments, by the
welcome cry of "Land! Land!"
	It was a most pleasing sight to watch the
gradually nearing hills the beautiful green
slopes and picturesque light-houses etc. as
they passed in panoramic order before our
admiring gaze. This was old Ireland, we
should soon reach Queenstown and e'er
tomorrow's sun should cross the Meridian,
all being well we should be piloted into the
English port.
	What a time it was to be sure; every-
body on board the old boat seemed to be
packing their traps, running to and fro, in
and out, up and down, their whole persons
bearing the stamp of animated expectancy,
while the stewards the stewardesses and
the waiters, seemed to be setting in for a
regular Spring cleaning.
	The passengers from all departments had
assembled on deck, and were eagerly look-
ing ahead for the first glimpse of the Tender
which was to come and usher us in to port.
	The trunks had all been hoisted from the
depths of the hold, the valises and bundles
and satchels and boxes had all been brought
up fiom the various state rooms, giving the
place rather a look of prepration for depart-
ure, and over the whole was an air of
anxious expectancy. Many were no doubt
anticipating the reunion of relatives and
friends, while many, I believe, did not
exactly know what they were expecting,
only that it would be something fresh to
them. I did not much relish forsaking a life
on the Ocean wave and in leaving the old
boat I almost felt that I was taking leave
of an old friend.
	At length to the gratification of the

[Column 2]

anxious watchers the Tender was seen ap-
proaching and almost before we had time
to realize the fact was along side of our boat
the occupants of the one exchanging greet-
ings with the occupants of the other. The
gang way was soon thrown across connect-
ing the two boats and ere many seconds,
husbands and wives, parents and children,
acquaintances and friends were industriously
shaking hands and kissing each other, each
asking as many questions to the minute as
possible, but seeming quite content, for the
present, to receive no answers to any of
them, all trying to talk at the same time.
	My companions and I, had neither friends
nor relatives there to meet us, so we stood
looking on at the proceedings of the others
and thought it a regular picnic. Finally
when most of the hubbub had subsided,
some one took pity on us and introduced
us to two gentlemen from 42. Islington who
had come down to welcome to the shores of
Britian, the party from the Rocky Mountains.
	After passing the yellow sands and
emerald banks of New Brighton we arrived
at the landing and once more stepped our
feet on solid ground. We were really in
Old England, though I could scarcely
believe it as it seemed more like a dream.
	I must say my feelings were peculiar and
not unmixed with reverence as I approached
that old publishing house and gathering
place of the saints for so many years, 42.
Islington, how many young and inex-
perienced missionaries had entered that old
office previous to starting out in their new
fields of labor, expecting and receiving as-
sistance and encouragement from its inmates
preparatory to launching out on the mercies
of a cold and unbelieving world. And I
pictured in my mind the great joy which
the native Saints must experience when
their fondly cherished hopes and desires are
about to be realized and they have come
thus far on their way to Zion.
	I tried to realize the conflicting emotions
which must have filled my own brave
mother’s breast, when she first mounted the
old stone steps and lifted the rusty iron
Knocket knowing that from this place she
was about to take what must have seemed
almost an eternal love of all, who by kinship
and association naturally should seem the
nearest and dearest. This was to be the
threshold of a new existence.
	All strange and unexplored, yet beautified
and brightened by faith and hope.
	With what force must the words of the
Savior have struck home to that young
heart.
	"He that loveth father and mother, broth-
er or sister, houses or lands more than me,
is not worthy of me."


FROM THE PRESS COMMITTFE.
Editor's Womans Journal:
	IF the persons preparing the reports of
committees and State work to be presented
at the Washington convention will write
upon one side of the paper only, and have
the MSS. in proper shape for the printer,
they will confer a great favor upon the press
committee. This committee wishes to get
out the published report as soon as possible
after the convention, and if written reports
are ready for the printer, they can be turned
over to him as soon as presented and ac-
cepted.
			HARRIET TAYLOR UPTON,
	Chairman Press Com. N. A. W. S. A.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50 per month, $3 00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street,
second gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY	-	-	JANUARY 1st, 1893.


[Column 1]

HAIL THE GLAD NEW YEAR.

	ALTHOUGH we are so unavoidably late in
sending forth our greeting to the many dear
friends and patrons to whom we wish to
express best New Year's wishes, yet never-
theless we feel the deepest interest in those
who have, from time to time, manifested
the least expression of good feeling or in-
terest in the work being done through the
EXPONENT, or organizations, or clubs of wo-
men, and it seems that this New Year opens
with brighter prospects and anticipations in
the way of woman's advancement than
ever before.
	The Columbian Exposition has given to
women everywhere wider opportunities, and
the women, of this Territory have a fair
share of representation with others in all the
various pursuits of life, and of work in all
its phases. And so we say it is a grander
opening for the multitude, what progress
will be made depends much upon the wo-
men themselves; to be sure there is a lack
of means, but the material interests must
be considered and every effort possible made
to show the appreciation of the advantages
given to women in this great and grand
movement which reaches all, and will be
educational and advantageous to all the
world.
	Here in these peaceful vales we are com-
paratively shut away from many of the
disagreeable and unpleasant occurrences that
are so common in many parts of the world,
and for this blessing the gratitude of the
entire people should be offered to Him, who
has guided their ways and through his
Providence opened up these valleys for an
abiding place of security and promise.
What may yet transpire none know, that is
all in the hands of "one who sees not as we
see, and whose ways are not as ourways,"
but the prospect of the completion of the
Salt Lake Temple, during this present year
ought to make it a glad and happy year for
the Latter-day Saints.
	It is an event that has been looked for-
ward to with the greatest interest for the
last forty years, and tens of thousands of
prayers have been offered up by the Saints

[Column 2]

old and young, that this sacred edifice might
be finished and dedicated wherein the labor
for the dead might be more fully accomplish-
ed.
	It is now perhaps almost an assured fact
that the Temple will be dedicated on the 6th
of April 1893, and should it transpire at
that time, the shouts and rejoicing of the
congregations of the Saints, would be some-
thing little less than marvelous, for there
can be no doubt that the angels above are
watching and waiting and rejoice with those
on earth. The people are looking forward to
this momentous event with the greatest
amount of enthusiasm and prospective joy
and gladness.
	And therefore it seems to be consistent to
say that this year will be the most important
in the history of this people and may be
specially significant of the Latter-day
work.
	No doubt many good resolutions have
been made and will be kept, and it is al-
ways good to try even though one may
sometimes fall short of the standard of ex-
cellence which he or she may desire to reach.
	In the good old days when we were young
in dear New England, New Year's was the
time of gifts and calls and rejoicing, feast-
ing and entertainments, for Christmas was
not kept there as it is nowadays. While we
may realize that, many things have been
neglected in the past year and mistakes
made, new resolves will be formed that in
their earnestness and favor will help those
upward and onward that diligently seek to
do good and to assist in the perfecting and
uplifting of humanity, and the preparation
for the great day of the Millinnium.
	And to one and all the editor of the EX-
PONENT extends "A Happy New Year."


HOLIDAY JOURNALS.

			THE DESERET NEWS.
	THERE have been a number of very
creditable Holiday papers in Utah this
holiday season, but among them all, we
would mention first the oldest paper
published in this region of country the
DESERET NEWS, which issued a special
number of its valuable weekly edition as a
souvenir of the New Year, an unusual
departure for that paper, that has gone on
in its regular order from year to year ever
since its establishment in the early days; the
first number being issued on June 15, 1850
the type having been set in this house; and
in this very room, where so much has been
done in that sort of work since.
	The New Year’s issue of the DESERET
NEWS has a very artistically arranged cover,
representing the Holidays with holly en-
twined a bee hive and a hanging tablet with
the appropriate motto, “Truth and Liberty.”
	The contents are of a high standard of
excellence and the work is profusely illus-
trated.  The Journal opens with an engrav-
ing of President Woodruff which is very

[Column 2]
true to life, and an autobiography written
in his own characteristic style which gives
much important data.
	The Salt Lake Temple by the EDITOR is
perhaps the most important subject treated
npon and is very ably written, and makes
one feel a sort of ecstacy such as lifts the .
soul into a higher element and causes one
to contemplate the grandeur of a House
built and dedicated to the Most High.  The
cut of this magnificent structure is very
exact and enhances the value  of the work
as illustrations invariably do.  The article
gives an accurate description of the build-
ing and is well worth double the price of
the magazine, for reference or to send to
friends away.
	The article on music by Prof. Evan
Stephens is one that all should read, reflect
and act upon who are interested in the musi-
cal development of the young people of the
Territory.  Prof. Stephens has spoken out 
plainly and one cannot help admiring his
frankness, on the subject for which he has
labored so industriously, and it is sincerely
to be hoped that the whole-souled genuine-
ness of the article will have its effect, and a
wider and deeper interest be manifest in the
directions he has so clearly  pointed out.
His picture which accompanies the article 
is very good indeed; "Van Buren and the
Saints,” by Elder John Nicholson is strong 
and expressive  and embodies the facts relat-
ing to that very important and most event-
ful period in the history of the Church, and
should be carefully read and digested.
There are some short articles amusing and
instructive and a portion of the Journal is
devoted to “Societies, Clubs and Culture,”
opening with the “Sunday School Union,”
giving its organization in wards and the
forming of the Union, the first work in
detail, and summing up what has been done
as a whole in the way of printing, donations
to Temples etc. and also the number of
 school teachers and pupils, names of princi-
pal officers etc. with Photo’s of two of the
leading spirits of the movement Gen. Supt.
Geo. Q. Cannon and Ass’t. Supt. George
Goddard.
	Then follows “The Relief Society,”
briefly written of, with pictures of Zina D.
H. Young President, Jane S. Richards and
Bathsheba W. Smith, Vice Presidents.
Next the Young Men’s M. I. A. is given in
brief with President Joseph F. Smith and
Dr. Milton H. Hardy’s pictures.  Young
Ladie’s M. I. A. written in a similar man-
ner giving some of the most interesting 
facts connected with the work, and the
pictures of Elmina S. Taylor, President,
Maria Young Dougall and Martha Horne
Tingey Counselors.
	The Primary is also given with the 
General President Louie Felt’s Picture,
Women and the Fair with picture of Emily 
S. Richards, Pres. Ter. Board of Lady
Managers for Utah, followed by Physical
Reform giving some of the work done in


[Column 1]

that direction by its organized society.
Physical Culture a new phase of work by
Maud May Babcock, Professor of Elocution
and Physical Culture, Uuiversity of Utah,
with a picture of herself. All these deserve
more than a bare mention, but that is im-
possible at present.
	"Woman's Suffrage," "Woman's Press
Club," "Other Clubs" and "A Closing
Word" about clubs are given a place in
this historical member of the Weekly.
Two pieces of music by Pro. E. Stephens,
"The New Year" and "Christmas Carol"
both words and music by the same author
"Night" by Josephine Spencer is very
sweet and sort of entrancing. "A Christ-
mas Chime," E. H. Woodmansee, very
timely and prettily written, would be suit-
able set to music, and a fragment "At Eve-
ning" E. B. Wells—a long poem by H. W.
Naisbitt, suggested by the death of Elder
David Hoagland Cannon, entitled "The
Procession of the Immortals." This poem
is very beautiful, and deserves great praise
it is certainly one of the very best of the
poetical productions of this voluminous
writer, who has done so much in a literary
way for Utah. In this connection we
ought certainly to mention, "The Ideal
City of the West"—which is full of music
as a prose poem, and is beautifully illus-
trative of Salt Lake and its many at-
tractions.
	The Hill Cumorah with the picture is
another very interesting theme well intro-
duced by Elder Edward Stevenson. Then
there are stories by Josephine Spencer. M.
A. Y. Greenhalgh, and the schools, colleges
and universities of the Territory this de-
partment is under the heading of "In
Education's Sphere" and opens with our
Church Schools eloquently written by Dr.
Karl G. Maeser, whose picture also adorns
the page, next is the B. Y. Academy at
Provo with Prof. Benj. Cluff Jr. and Prof.
C. Keeler's likenesses, of that institution,
then comes B. Y. College at Logan and a
Photo. of Prof. J. H. Paul next the L. D.
S. College, Salt Lake City with likenesses
of Prof. Willard Done and Prof. Joseph
Nielson, followed by the University of
Utah formerly University of Deseret with
that very handsome building as an illus-
tration,and this series of articles closes with
the Agricultural College of Utah and a
picture of the handsome structure as it will
be when completed. Altogether this num-
ber contains much historical matter worthy
of being preserved and should certainly be
in every home in the Territory, and sent
abroad wherever possible to enlighten people
on Utah matters and the pioneer work
educational, and in other directions that has
been done here.

THE CHRISTMAS HERALD.
	The Christmas Herald was very hand-
somely got up and beautifully illustrated.
It contained many excellent articles on
various subjects of interest and consider-

[Column 2]

able on society matters, as well as musical
and dramatic. The prize story and poem
deserve special mention as well as some
other things.
	The outside cover of the Christmas Her-
ald is very elaborate and quite a study; the
photo-engravings and wood cuts are Brig-
ham Young which occupies the contre of
the first page followed by the Eagle Gate
llustrating the story of the pioneers ably
written by Andrew Jensen. Christopher
Columbus, Utah's Columbian Exposition
Building, with an article on Utah's Lady
Managers, who they are, and what they
are doing, which should interest all those
nterested in Utah's representation at the
World's Fair. There are many other ably
written articles concerning Utah its re-
sources and development what its progress
has been and what the future prospects are,
cuts of leading hotels and business houses
adorn the pages, and make it a capital num-
ber for the business interests of the country.
	The prize poem entitled Utah is very
good and only signed Frances which makes
the curious anxious to know who the author
is.
	Education and libraries have not been
neglected in the representation of important
matters and one can but admire the enter-
prise manifested in the whole make up of
this large and complete work.

THE JOURNAL.
	The Utah Journal published in Logan is-
sued a holiday number also giving the most
important things in relation to the growth
and enterprise of the country and must be
of great value to the people as it contains
so many facts that are not generally known
to the community at large. These holiday
papers have brought before the people in an
entertaining way, that will cause people to
reflect more than if written merely as items
of business. Altogether the Christmas
articles and papers are something to be
greatly proud of and should be carefully
preserved.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	IN this issue of the paper we were ob-
liged to leave over several articles, some of
them already in type “Forefather’s Fes-
tival” and the story “In Rural England,”
also other articles which were prepared for
this number, we beg the indulgence of our
patrons and readers for the lateness of the
first paper of the year, but it would be im-
possible to explain all the reasons of the
delay, though they are good and sufficient.
	A JUVENILE Operatta was given in the
20th Ward Hall in the interest of the
Sunday School by the children of the Pri-
mary Association, under the management
of Prof. J. J. Daynes, Miss Gladys Wood-
mansee and others associated in the work,
on the evening of Friday Dec. 23rd 1892.
Altogether the affair was very unique and
the children were appropriately dressed,
and evinced the most perfect training in
their parts.  The Libretto was written by
Miss Gladys Woodmansee and was musical
in composition and dramatic in effect dis-


playing talent and thought, and the music
by Prof. J. J. Daynes, was of the most
suitable style, adapted to the words and the
entire plot and cast.  It was a juvenile
Christmas opera really, opening with the
characteristic News boy and flower girl who
were very natural in their parts, then the
Santa Claus dance; dancing was a pretty
feature of the whole, and the choruses by
the children were in keeping with the
happy arrangement of the whole affair.
The band of boot blacks caused a great deal
of merriment and was quite true to life and
pleased the children in the audience amaz-
ingly.  Scotch dance by little Lucile Tay-
lor was gracefully charming.  The tableaux
were beautifully arranged and the entertain-
ment was in itself a complete success.  The
children who took part in it deserve praise
and those who trained them certainly spared
no pains.  Santa Claus coming down the
chimney and arranging the childrens, pres-
ents while the little ones were in bed was
very well done and, the waking of the children
and discovering their gifts was very natur-
ally acted.  Miss Woodmansee has shown
herself gifted in putting such a complicated
little operetta upon the stage, as well as in
the composition.


U. W. P. CLUB.

	THE Utah W. P. Club met at the EX-
PONENT parlor Dec. 30, 1892.  Mrs. E. B.
Wells in the chair, prayer was offered by
Miss N. V. Davis; roll called, responded to
by original verses suggestive of the New
Year.  Minutes of the previous meeting
read and approved.  Badge for Club dis-
cussed over again.  Miss Davis suggested
a native stone,each member present was ap-
pointed a committee of one to make in-
quiries about it and report at the next meet-
ing.  Miss Davis then read two short
poems and Daisy Fox played a selection on
the piano.  An original article entitled
“Time” was next read by Mrs. Phebe C.
Young, Mrs. E. B. Wells addressed the
club for a short time expressing her love
for the members, speaking of the improve-
ment that had been made and the
advantages to be gained by such associations.
She also spoke very feelingly of her at-
tachment to the old home which was about
to be removed, or taken away; Mrs. Fox
said she took the opportuuity to express
her thanks for her invitation to join this
club, she always looked forward to this
meeting with a great deal of pleasure, said
if anything should happen that she could
not attend she would feel as though some-
thing of importance had dropped out of her
life. 
	Mrs. Mary A. Freeze expressed herself
as being highly pleased with her association
with the club said she had a feeling of love
for the members and would like to do
something to stir up those members who
were not very regular in their attendance.
Mrs. Phebe C. Young was in sympathy and
feelings with the other ladies present,hoped
that our meetings would not be interrupted
by the moving of the EXPONENT Office
was grateful to Mrs. Wells for opening her
house and making it so pleasant for us, and
hoped that the club would continue to pro-
gress and prosper. Miss N. V. Davis said
the fact that she was almost always here
was a sign that she enjoyed the meetings;
thought she might have better improved
the time and benefitted the club more ef-
fectually by giving it the benefit of the new
books she had read, and things that come


up in her daily life; hoped we would set
apart certain evenings for special subjects;
she very much enjoyed her connection with
the association and said that when she would
go away from Utah,she felt she would know
something of the people.  Mrs. Wells said
Mrs. C. Lousie Boyden sent her regards to
the club—one and all, had written a very
affectionate letter.  Mrs. Wells proposed
each member present try and bring a new
member next time; also that the Treasurer
(as the Cor. Secretary was not able at present,)
would send out postals notifying absent
members of our next meeting;  thought
members at a distance might favor us with
an article sometimes.  Refreshments were
then served during which time the President
presented each one present with a pretty
New Year’s card containing a beautifnl Poem
and a few words written by herself.  The
programme for next meeting, Jan 31st was
read as follows—Mrs. C. C. R. Wells
article on the close of the year 1892.  Mrs.
Dickinson descriptive poem.  Character of
short stories in current magazines, Josephine
Spencer.  Poem by Mrs. Lillie Freeze.
Discussion on Badge and Motto.  Bene-
diction by R. M. Fox.
			R. M. FOX. Sec. Pro tem.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

WOMAN'S PROGRESS.

	KNOWING co-education to be one of the
prominent features of the great school of Michi-
gan; I very naturally had a curiosity to see what
was the exact status of woman, and consequently
closely scrutinized the situation—(It may be with
a jealous eye)—but, however I watched, to see if
my sister woman was in any manner slighted, or
deprived in any particular of privileges or op-
portunities accorded the opposite sex. Not that
I expected any very great differences, but to the
critical, I half imagined there could be found some
finer shades of preferences growing out of the
fact that man was man, and woman only woman.
	But to the credit of this great institution of
culture and refinement, be it said that woman is
every where received with the greatest consider-
ation and respect, and in all the numerous
avenues of learning, stands on an equal footing
with her brother man.
	In the literary department particularly it is
pleasing to note her intellectual standing. In
numbers the classes are about two thirds ladies
mostly young, from eighteen to twenty five—and
their intelligent discussions of the most abstruse,
literary subjects—well! at least show they are not
in the back ground.
	In the medical department about one third of
the classes are ladies—and here I have the best
opportunity of noting any discriminations as to
sex, should there be any, but to my surprise and
pleasure never once has there been a distinction
manifested, the professors both in the lecture halls
and in Hospital clinics give them the same un-
studied consideration.
	In the Law School—which perhaps is not con-
sidered so mnch of a womanly avocation there is
but one lady student in the senior class, but report
says she walks paralell lines with her legal
brethren.
	There are also several ladies in the
Pharmaceutical and dental departments which I
have not yet had the pleasure of visiting but think
there is no reason to expect here, an exception to
the general rule.
	In this connection we will quote from a lecture
recently given to the Woman's League by Jas. B.
Angell President of the University of Michigan.
In his introduction he dwelt upon the remarkable
opposition that had been manifested toward wo-
man in the matters of education for generations
past. The great Universities of the world have
effectively barred their doors against them, until
within recent years they are slightly opened—"a
small crack" as it were, giving them opportunities
in a limited number of branches. "But be of
good cheer these same doors will universally be
thrown wide open to you and that very soon.
	A few years since the board of regents of the
University of Michigan sought to compromise
this question by passing a resolution that: "There
should be no bar to anyone, who was mentally
and morally competent, entering this school."
Of course "women are here always." This set

[Column 2]

the doors ajar, and ambitious woman has gradual-
ly stepped in, and is industriously climbing the
ladder of fame.
	The first lady who had the courage to take
advantage of this privilege should have the last-
ing gratitude of all the lady students who came
after. She was really a pioneer and paved the
way most admirably.
	She was an efficient classical scholar, and truly
a remarkable woman, so delicate and circumspect,
earnest, gifted and dignified and with also woman-
ly; that any professors who had entertained any
doubts as to the propriety of the new departure,
were at once converted, for they found that she as
well as those that followed, lost none of this
womanliness that they had just as much ability
as the opposite sex, and more conscientiousness
and with very rare exceptions made a perfect suc-
cess of their work.
	Shortly after this ladies entrance in college a
circumstance occured that created somewhat of a
sensation and which was commented upon by
a number of Chicago papers. A certain lesson in
Greek was an impromptu translation of passages
as a simple exercise.
	The Prof. designated a certain passage for her
to translate. She arose to her feet and translated
the words in a clear distinct voice and without
the slightest hesitation. "Woman should not
attempt to contend with man." The Prof. not
being accustomed to having translations made so
promptly, paid her a very high compliment, and
at once begged her pardon for the character of
the text saying that he had "not even looked at
it and did not know what was coming." It may
be that he did not, but appearances were against
him, and the circumstance made for him con-
siderable notoriety.
	This lady graduated with honors; "indeed," the
lecturer said: "at the very head of her class,"
and is now a very influential and active member
of society.
	Many of the lady professors of Wellesly and
Vassar Colleges are from this school. Miss Free-
man has been made president of the latter within
the last year. Among the early graduates from
the Medical department were Miss Hall and Mrs.
Moser, now active practitioners in Brooklyn.
There is a very pleasing feature connected with
the practice of these two ladies, for over fifteen
years they have practiced together, having one
office and one horse and buggy and cooperating
in attending patients &c. and always with the
most pleasing and satisfactory results. The
recent marriage of Miss Hall has I believe dis-
solved the former partnership. A gentleman re-
ferring to the remarkable unity of these two
ladies remarked: "Show me two men that could
do such a thing!"
	Numbers of lady graduates in medicine have
gone from here as missionaries to foreign lands,
five of whom are now in China. Miss Howard,
now Mrs. King at present in Sing Sing, has been
called to attend the nobility. The natives regard
the results of her labors among the afflicted, as
partaking almost of the miraculous. Through
her influence a hospital has been erected thereby
extending benefits to many of the poorer classes.
	Miss Laura White after graduating from the
school of Pharmacy went to Louisville Ky. and
contested the right of woman to conduct Drug
Stores, she won her case and is now demonstrat-
ing her ability in that profession very efficiently.
	After the question was settled as to woman's
intellectual ability to compete with man in the
halls of learning another arose. Much solicitude
was manifested as to her physical ability. Could
a woman take a college course and keep her
health? Many doubts and queries arose even
the president himself felt fearful. But experiance
has proven that a systematic course of study
with regularity and hygienic living, is indeed
beneficial physically, and the effects were far less
deleterious than society frolics, that consume so
much of the average young ladies attention.
	The fatherly president then advised those just
entering to use discretion and not attempt too
much the first year. Take sufficient exercise in
the open air, eat regularly and sleep the amount
of time nature demands, and do not give too
much time to social life. It is impossible to work
all day and dance all night and maintain your
physical vitality. The absence of gallantry can-
not be complained of on the part of the young
men of '92. In the early days ladies were not
burdened with undue attentions from their gentle-
men acquaintances—it took some time for prej-
udice to wear away—but the pendulum has taken
a swing, and in this respect gone too far in the
opposite direction.
	Prest. Angell closed his lecture by paying a
very high tribute to the lady students—saying:
"I feel under obligations to the noble women who

[Column 3]

have attended this University during the last
twenty years. They have been an army of earn-
est workers energetic thorough and conscientious
and by their gentleness and refinement have
wielded a powerfnl influence over the rougher
element. Yes I feel heartily to thank them and
you, and I trust you will ever remember that you
are here as representatives of your sex. You are
making a record that will be a lasting monument
to your credit, and all colleges will yet be proud
to welcome you in all their various departments.
Yes they will ere long open wide their doors to
womankind throughout the world."
			ELLIS R. SHIPP.


FERDINAND.

	FERDINAND V of Castile, 3rd of Naples
and 2nd of Aragon and Sicily, (surnamed
“The Catholic,”) younger son of John II
of Navarre and Aragon by his second wife,
was born in Aragon March 10th, 1452.  On
the death of his elder brother Carlos, he
was recognized by the Aragonese as heir-
apparent to the crown, but the Catalans
rendered indignant by the cruelty and
perfidy with which Carlos had been treated
refused to recognize any further claim on
their allegiance and rose in rebellion against
King John.  Ferdinand accompanied his
father in the campaigns which followed and
gave early promise of distinction.  In 1466
his father formally associated him with him-
self in the government of Aragon and in
1458 declared him King of Sicily.  In his
r8th year he became the favored suitor for
the hand of Isabella heir-apparent to the
crowns of Castile and Leon, who at this
time was kept under strict and oppressive
treatment by her brother Henry who much
desired her marriage with another—Isabella
however finding opportunity to send a
favorable answer to the Aragonese envoy
for his master.  So the marriage articles
were signed and sworn to by Ferdinand on
the 7th of Jan. he promised faithfully to
respect the laws and usages of Castile, to
fix his residence in that kingdom, and not
to quit it without the consent of Isabella; to
alienate no property belonging to the crown;
to prefer no foreigners to municipal offices
and indeed to make no appointments of a
civil or military nature, without her consent
and approbation:  and to resign to her ex-
clusively the right of nomination to
ecclesiastical benefits.  All ordinances of a
public nature were to be subscribed equally
by both.  Ferdinand engaged, more over,
to prosecute the war against the Moors;
to respect King Henry; to suffer every
noble to remain unmolested in the possession
of his dignities, and not to demand restitu-
tion of the domains formerly owned by his
father in Castile.  The treaty concluded
with a specification of a magnificent dower
to be settled on Isabella, far more ample
than that usually assigned to the queens of
Aragon.  While these affairs were in pro-
gress,Isabella's situation was becoming criti-
cal and to reach her side Ferdinand had to
travel in disguise over this a short but danger-
ous stretch of hostile country, his father be-
ing at this time engaged in war.  The party
traveled chiefly in the night—Ferdinand
assumed the disguise of a servant and when
they halted on the road, took care of the
mules and served his companions at table.
In this guise with no other disaster save that
of leaving at an inn the purse which con-
tained the funds for the expedition, they ar-
rived late on the second night at a little
place occupied by the Count of Trevino and
a considerable body of men-at-arms.  On
knocking at the gate, cold and faint with
traveling, during which the prince had al-


lowed himself to take no repose, they were
saluted by a large stone, discharged by a
sentinel from the battlements, which,
glancing near Ferdinand’s head had well-
nigh brought his romantic enterprise to a
tragical conclusion; when his voice was
recognized by his friends within and he was
received with great joy, the remainder of
his journey, which he commenced before
dawn was performed under the convoy of a
well armed escort and on the 9th of Oct.
he reached the kingdom of Leon. The
news of Ferdinand’s arrival diffused univer-
sal joy in the little court of Isabella at
Valladolid. Her first step was to send word
to her brother Henry informing him of the
presence of the prince in his dominions and
of their intended marriage. She excused
the course she had taken by the embarrass-
ments in which she had been involved by
the malice of her enemies. She represented
the advantages of the connection and the
sanction it had received from the Castilian
nobles and she concluded with soliciting his
approbation of it, giving him at the same
time affectionate assurances of the most
dutiful submission both on the part of Ferd-
nand and herself. Arrangements were
then made for an interview between the
royal pair in which some of the courtiers
tried to persuade their mistress to require
some act of homage from Ferdinand in a tok-
en of the inferiority of the crown of Aragon
to that of Castile, a proposition which she
rejected with her usual discretion. Acord-
ingly Ferdinand passed privately to
Valladolid and was conducted to the apart-
ment of his mistress. Here follows a des-
cription of Ferdinand, now in his 18th, year
“his complexion was fair, though somewhat
bronzed by constant exposure to the sun;
his eye quick and cheerful; his forehead am-
ple and approaching to baldness. His mus-
cular and well-proportioned frame was in-
vigorated by the toils of war and by the
chivalrous exercises in which he delighted.
He was one of the best horsemen in his
court, and excelled in field sports of every
kind. His voice was somewhat sharp, but
he possessed a fluent eloquence and when he
had a point to carry, his address was
courteous and even insinuating. He secur-
ed his health by extreme temperance in his
diet and by such habits of activity that it
was said he seemed to find repose in busi-
ness.” (Isabella was a year older than her
lover—*   *   *   *   *   *   * She was ex-
ceedingly beautiful,“the handsomest lady,”
says one of her household, “whom I ever
beheld—and the most gracious in her man-
ners—dignified and modest to a degree of
reserve.
    The interview lasted more than two hours
when Ferdinand retired to his quarters as
privately as he came. The preliminaries
of the marriage, however, were first adjust-
ed, but so great was the poverty of the
parties that it was found necessary to bor-
row money to defray the expenses of the
ceremony. Such were the humiliating cir-
cumstances attending the commencement
of a union destined to open the way to the
highest prosperity and grandeur of the
Spanish monarchy! The marriage between
Ferdinand and Isabella was publicly cele-
brated on the morning of Oct. 19th, in the
palace of John de Vivero in the presence of
abont 2,000 people. After the wedding
festivities which lasted about a week,an em-
bassy was despatched by Ferdinand
and Isabella to Henry to acquaint him
of their proceedings and again request
his approbation of them.

[column 2]
    They repeated their assurances of
loyal submission,accompanying the message
with such extracts from articles of marriage
as would be most likely to conciliate him.
    Ferdinand and his consort in their little
court were so poor as to be scarcely
capable of defraying the ordinary charges
of their table. The death of Henry 4th
(which took place on the night of Dec. 11,
1474 brought Isabella to the throne and she
was proclaimed queen on the 13th Dec. 1474
in Segovia where she then resided, with the
solemnities usual on such occasions. On
Ferdinand’s arrival from Aragon, where
he was staying at the time of Henry’s death
occupied with war, a disagreeable dis-
cussion took place in regard to the respec-
tive authority to be enjoyed by the husband
and wife in the administration of the
government. Ferdinand’s relatives con-
tended that the crown of Castile and of
course the exclusive sovereignty was limi-
ted to him as the nearest male representative
of the house of Trastamara. Isabella’s
friends on the other hand insisted that these
rights belonged solely to her as the lawful
heir and proprietor of the kingdom. It
was finally decided by arbitration that
Isabella, being sole heir of these domin ions,
whatever authority Ferdinand might pos-
sess could be obtained only through her, so
a settlement was made on the basis of the
original marriage documents. Ferdinand,
it is said, was so much dissatisfied with an
arrangement which vested the essential
rights of sovereignty in his consort, that he
threatened to return to Aragon, but Isabella
reminded him that this power was rather
nominal than real—that their interests were 
inseparable—that his will would be hers
and that the principle of the exclusion of
females from the succession, if now
established, would disqualify their only
child, who was a daughter. By these and
similar arguments the queen succeeded in
soothing her offended husband without
compromising the prerogatives of her crown.
    The first years of their reign were
clouded by civil dissensions—they intro-
duced into their kingdom a whole plan of
reform—the war of Granada, its seige and
surrender were occupying the attention of
their majesties at the time Columbus made
his application to the court, and was no
doubt one of the causes of Ferdinand’s
indifference to his enterprise. One of the
unhappy features of the reign was the
establishment of the inquisihon—Ferdinand
succeeded (at the instigation of some of his
religious advisors) in influencing Isabella
and gaining her consent thereto—which is
said to be an error so grave as to give a
sinister expression to her otherwise un-
blemished character.
    Dec. 7th, 1492 an attempt was made on
the life of Ferdinand by a ruffian who
aimed a blow at his neck with a knife—
fortunately however, the edge of the weap-
on was turned by a gold chain or collar
which he was in the habit of wearing, and
his life was saved though his wound was
rather severe. His restoration to health
was the occasion of great joy to his people.
    Ferdinand was made Regent on the death
of Isabella which occurred on Wednesday
Nov. 26th, 1504. Some time afterward he
contracted a second,marriage which however
did not prove a happy one. On the death
of his illustrious consort Ferdinand may
be said to have lost his good genius. From
that time his fortunes were under a cloud,
his ill-advised marriage disgusted his Cas-
tilian subjects. His health began to fail

[column 3]
and on June 23, 1516 he breathed his
last in a wretched little house belonging to
some friars. He died so poor that he left
scarcely money enough to defray the ex-
penses of his funeral. His body was laid
by the side of Isabella in the monastery of
the Alhambra.
    The character of Ferdinand is said to
contrast most unfavorably with that of
Isabella, she being pure, constant and de-
voted to the interests of her people while he
proved himself unworthy of her by in-
dulging in many of the vices too generally
sanctioned by the age. It is said his death
was hastened by a portion which in his
desire for posterity he had taken to re-in-
vigorate his exhausted constitution.
    We naturally turn from these gloomy
last days to the brighter season of his life,
as we find much in him to admire when he
sat with Isabella on the united thrones of
Castile and Aragon strong in the love of
his own subjects and in the fear and
respect of his enemies.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


W. S. A. SALT LAKE CO.

	THE Salt Lake Co. W. S. A. held an
annual convention in the 13th Ward As-
sembly rooms, Nov 15th, 1892, President
Elizabeth Howard in the chair. Opened
by singing "Help the working women,"
Prayer by Sarah B. Phelps, Singing
"Awake O ye daughters etc." Minutes of
the previous meeting read, amended, and
approved. Roll called. Territorial, Vice-
Prest. C. E. Dye, and Vice Prest. P. C.
Young made some remarks in relation to the
election of officers for the ensuing year.
Territorial Vice-Prest. Emily S. Richards
occupied the chair during the election of
officers, which was done by ballot in a very
quiet and orderly manner, and resulted in
the election of the following named officers.
Nellie Colbrook Taylor for President, 1st,
Vice-Prest. Adella W. Eardley, 2nd Vice-
Prest. Elizabeth M. Price, 3rd Vice-Prest.
E. McFarlane, Maggie Bassett Sec'y, and
Lillie T. Freeze Treas. Ex. Com. Phebe
C. Young, Mary A. Irvine, Mary P. Silver,
Elizabeth McCune, Mary A. Freeze, Mary
E. Bassett, Dr. E. S. Barney.
	Mrs. Richards moved a vote of thanks to
the out-going officers for their services,
which motion was put to the house aud car-
ried. The Sec. read the yearly report
which was amended and approved. Trea-
surer Dr. E. S. Barney read the yearly
financial report, also amended and accepted.
Mrs Richards urged upon the ladies the
importance of renewing their memberships,
and spoke upon some World's Fair matters.
25 ladies came forward and had their names
enrolled as members, and the meeting stood
adjourned.
			C. C. R. WELLS.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE P. C. W. P. A. will shortly issue
an official bulletin and continue in its
monthly publication.
	Mrs. James Lawrence of Albany N. Y.
has published her latest novel, "A Heroic
Sinner."
	ELIZA D. KEITH (Di Vernon) is now the
accredited correspondent of the Weekly
Journalist of Boston.
	MRS. NEWHALL (Ada Halstead) is
dramatizing her novel, "Hazel Verne,"
and writing another work of fiction.


[Column 1]

	ALL Federal Suffrage petitions should
be sent in at once, so as to  be included in
the annual report.
	BY the will of the late Amelia Edwards
a chair of Egyptology has been fonnded in
University College, London, England.
	LADY SOMERSET and Miss Willard will
spend the winter in a Temperance canpaign
throughout England.
	THE women of the Republic have as
vital an interest in its welfare as men have,
and they should take as deep an interest is
its politics and all that advances or retards
its prosperity.—New York Recorder.
	THE 'ast meeting of the New England
Woman's Club was commemorative of the
beloved poet Whittier. Very tender, very
appreciative and beautiful were the tributes
by those who had known and loved Mr.
Whittier.
	SOUTH Carolina will be represented for
the first time at the coming annual meeting
of the National-American Woman Suffrage
Association, to be held in Washington in
January. The delegate chosen is Mrs.
Viola Neblett, of Greenville.
	THE first insane asylum ever erected in 
the Chinese Empire is now being projected
by Dr. E. P. Thwing, who, with his wife
and daughter, has gone to China at his own
expense, to complete the arrangements at
Canton.
	AT the Art Exhibitiou held early in
August in Munich, Bavaria, Mr. Whistler,
the English artist, and Mr. Dwight, of New
York, were awarded medals of the first
class. Two other American artists, Messrs
Dewing and Hassenclulde, of New York,
were honored with medals of the second
class.
	THE Business Committee of the N. A.
W. S. A. has elected Mrs. Harriet Taylor
Upton to fill the position of treasurer, Mrs.
Jane H. Spofford finding it necessary to
resign. A resolution of thanks was voted
to Mrs. Spofford who has for so many years
filled this office and contributed to the suc-
cess of the Washington Convention.
	LET every friend of woman suffrage see
or write at once to his or her own Repre-
sentative and Senator, asking each of them
to work and vote for municipal women suff-
rage in the Legislature. If this were
promptly and generally done, the month of
January might see this great step in pro-
gress taken by Massachusetts, Maine and
New Hampshire. What is needed is a
general expression by women and men in
its favor.
	MISS LILIAN WHITING, in answer to the
question, "Is journalism a good profession
for women?" says: "The journalist must
be born as well as the poet—though he be
not so rare. It requires a degree of creative
power to be an acceptable press writer.
Therefore women who ask only 'Does it
pay?' will find many questions more im-
mediately important before it will pay them.
Like all literary work, journalism must to
a considerable degree choose her votaries
rarher than be chosen by them."
	THE proposal to reproduce at the World's
Fair the Passion Play of Oberammergau
has fallen through. It aroused extreme
opposition throughout the country; and
eminent clergymen, both Protestant and

[Column 2]

Catholic, including such men as Archbishop
Corrigan, Bishop McDonnell, Rev. Dr.
Lyman Abbott, Rev. Dr. James M. King,
Rev, Dr. W. R. Huntington, and others,
were outspoken in their denunciations of a
scheme which they considered a debasing
of things holy, and the turning of a re-
ligious function into a sacrilegous spectacle.
The people of Oberammergau have stated
that they never entertained the idea of con-
senting to come to America for the pur-
pose of giving the play.
	PREPARATIONS have been made for the
production of Sir Edwin Arnold's new play
"The Story of Adzuma." It is written in
the same blank verse as "The Light of the
World." The beautiful heroine, who sacri-
fices her life to save her husband and her
honor, is a pure and true type of the high-
est Japanese womanhood. In some of its
tragic scenes, the work equals those beauti-
ful passages in "The Light of the World"
which picture the sorrow and repentance of
the Magdalene. It illustrates with close
fidelity, the manners and motives of the
Japanese people.
	THERE have been several in portant new
dramatic productions. "Haddon Hall,"
the joint work of Sir Arthur Sullivan and
Mr. Sidney Grundy, scored a popular suc-
cess at its first presentation in the Savoy
Theater, London, Eng., on September 17.
It is a "light" rather than a "comic" opera,
in which love and serious interest are
prominent, although in the libretto the
author of the "Vicar of Bray" has shown
the influence of the author of "Pinafore."
The story is based upon an historical inci-
dent, the romantic elopement of the Puritan
Dorothy Vernon, daughter of the master of
Haddon Hall, with Philip Manners, a
younger son of the Earl of Rutland. The
incident occured in the time of Elizabeth;
but, for dramatic purposes, the scenes have
been laid in the days of the Commonwealth.
Haddon Hall is still the property of the
Rutland family, and "Dorothy Vernon's
Walk," the window from which the maid-
en signaled to her lover, and the door from
which she escaped, are still pointed out.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARIES.

	SARAH JANE LAYTON widow of the late
Abraham Layton and daugh er of Wm. L. and
Catherine Payne died at her home in Kaysville of
consumption Nov. 16th 1892.
	Deceased was born in Nauvoo, Nov. 22nd 1844,
came to Utah when a child with her parents has
ever been a faithful member of the Church of Lat-
terday Saints also a teacher in the Relief Society
for many years, as long as her health would per-
mit her to fill the office.  She was the mother of
nine children; seven are left to mourn the loss of
a kind and affectionate mother also eight grand
children.
			SARAH B. LAYTON PREST. R. S.


DIED in Nephi Juab County, Dec. 24th, 1892 of
child-bed fever Mercy, beloved wife of James
Vickers, and daughter of the late Samuel Pitch-
forth and Sarah A. Goldsbrough Pitchforth, aged
23 years.  She leaves a husband and two children
the youngest a baby 8 days old.  The remains
were followed to the First Ward Meeting House
by her family and relatives.
	The funeral services were conducted by Bishop
Warner, President Paxman, J. G. Bigler and
Counselor Sperry each made very appropriate
remarks aided by the Spirit of God, comforting
the bereaved who were present; and an earnest
prayer was offered by Pres. Paxman invoking the
blessings of God upon all, who are called to
mourn the loss of their loved one, and upon all
present especially upon her absent and only
brother who is on a mission to England.


The choir were in attendance and her remains
were conveyed to the Cemetery followed by her
family, relatives and many friends.		M. P.

	RESOLUTIONS of respect to the memory of
Sister Anna Winkler Anderson widow of Claus
P. Anderson who departed this life Aug 17, 1892.
of heart disease. Sister Anderson was born in
Switzerland July 28, 1812; she was a faithful mem-
ber of the Burrville Relief Society and was first
Counselor at the time of her death. Resolved
that we regret the loss of her presence in our
Society and that we deeply sympathize with the
bereaved family.
	Resolved that these resolutions be spread upon
our Relief Society records and a copy be sent to
the bereaved family also a copy be sent to the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.

	A precious one from us has gone,
		A voice we loved is stilled,
	A place is vacant in our home
		Which never can be filled.

	God in his wisdom has recalled,
		The boon his love had given
	And though the body molders here
		The soul is safe in heaven.

				SARAH BURR.
				ZILPHA Z HANCOCK.
				DELIA P. WHITEHEAD.


DOCTOR MATTIE HUGHES CANNON,
Office: II South, First West Street.
Office practice for Disease of Women from 2
until 4 p. m.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
	Three doors west of Theatre.

MRS. M. E. VAN. M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p.m.

R.K. THOMAS
26,28,30and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail 
Cash House

R.K.THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebraied LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
be country promptly responded to.
AVD JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAK CIY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 21.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15, 1893.	NO. 14.


CONTENTS:

	Passing Thoughts—Camelia. In Rural
England—A Story.  Interesting News From
Canada—Alberta. The Isabella Club House.
Work For The World's Fair. The Reformation.
Foreign Letter—Don C. W. Musser. An-
nouncement. R. S.  P. A. Reports—Bear Lake,
Far West, Oneida Stake. Notes And News.
In Memoriam. Obituaries.
	EDITORIAL:—Woman's Part In The Exposition.
Women's Papers. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—Extract—L. M. H. Violets—
Hyacinth. Our Darling Gone—L. M.  Hewlings.
Woman—Lu Dalton.


EXTRACT.

In the evening of life, when its hopes once were
	bright,
Like the mists on the mountains vanish quickly
	from sight,
When our visions of youth like a bird flee away,
And the pleasures of earth fail to gladden our
	stay,
There's joy far more cheering ever present and
	nigh,
That illumines our path like the bow in the sky.
We hold sweet communion with the loved lost
	from sight,
Faith pre-visions the day that ne'er endeth in
	night,
We look thro' the gateway to the land of our
	rest,
Where released from all troubling we'll reign
	with the blest.
			L. M. H.


VIOLETS.

Welcome, oh welcome, violets blue,
	When you lift your head,
	From your watery bed,
The sunshine to wed, violets true.

Sadly I miss you, violets fair,
	When the day is hot,
	And I see you not,
In the old loved spot, violets rare.

Happy the twilight, violets meek,
	That stirs the soft breeze,
	Among the low trees,
To freshen thy leaves, violets sweet.

Gathering shadows, violets near,
	But deepen thy hue,
	To darkest of blue,
That sparkles with dew, violets dear.

Ev'nings so balmy, violets mild,
	Heighten thy radiance,
	Scatter thy fragrance,
Like a soft cadence, violets wild.

Song hours are gladdened, violets shy,
	By your mass of bloom,
	And dainty perfume;
That steals through the room, violets nigh.

How oft you recall, violets fine,
	Sweet dreams of the past,
	Far too dear to last
Their spell to recast, violets mine.

Ye heralds of spring, violets bright,
	Lay off the white fold,
	That o'er you is rolled,
So spotless and cold, violets white.


Hasten thy coming, violets lone,
	May the glad showers,
	Bring to my bowers.
Fairest of flowers, violets flown.
			HYACINTH.
Christmas Eve, 1892.


PASSING THOUGHTS.

	I ONCE heard a lady remark “Talk about
the Frenchman’s politeness they are the most
impolite people in the world. I never saw
one yet rise to give a lady a place in a car or
omnibus.” I thought myself at the time
they must be very rude, but now years
since that remark was made, reason asserts
itself and I ask why should he? Why
should a man give up that for which he had
paid just because a woman happens to desire
it? Not many days since I chanced to
be riding in a crowded street car and near
me sat two laboring men with their lunch
buckets, and tools; the car stopped for some
ladies to get on, they were in fashionable
attire probably had been calling,or to a mat-
tinee or afternoon tea, or shopping and one
of the men near me remarked “well I sup-
pose we shall have to get up,” the other re-
plied “I am awful tired I hope we don’t!
need to, it is so good to be riding home this
way,” now I ask myself and every true wo-
man why should we expect that courtesy. If
when we enter a car there are no vacant seats
why should we who come last not stand in-
stead of taking the seat of some tired, worn
out man. It is no unusual thing for a lady
to go in a shop and spend an hour or more
comfortably seated examining goods, while
the clerk lifts them up and down measures
them out, wraps them up. All the time
from early morning until night standing
and never daring to sit down, save for the
short hour allowed for dinner. Is it right,
if at evening when the day’s work is done
this same clerk and lady happen to be going
home on the same car for him to arise, as
she enters and give up his seat for her. He
is no longer an employed man but his own 
master, free for the night, he pays for his
seat in the car and why should he not retain
it. Of course there are exceptions. The
young should always, unless ill, give their
places to the aged, but we should not hesi-
tate on account of sex. I should certainly
feel to yield my seat to an aged man as soon
as an aged woman. It is not a question of
manners, but of unselfishness. For a young
healthy girl to allow a tired man to give up
his seat to her is purely selfish and she ought
not to expect it nor allow it for a moment.
One can readily see, when a women is tired
or ill and then of course a seat ought to be
provided for her even at the inconvenience
of another passenger. Another one always
imposed upon in the street car is the little
child who is just old enough to pay fare,
why should we expect the little girls or
boys simply because they are children to
give up their seats. I sat by a little girl not
long since who looked so tired, she was not
well dressed and had a few parcels. Then
some few ladies entered the car a kindly
woman near me said, “come here little girl
and sit on my lap.” I immediately said,

[column 2]
“don’t you move you paid for your seat and
possibly some one will get off before long
and the ladies can then get a seat.” She
looked at me so astonished but she sat still,
now the kind woman who offered to hold
the little girl was very stout, and I have no
doubt would have found holding the
child very uncomfortable, and why
should she burden herself. I always intend
to yield my seat to aged men and women,
the maimed and sick, and the weary work-
ers and mothers with babies and from them
I do not intend to take a place. Sometimes
we expect too much deference from men
and children and if we do not receive it,
call it impoliteness. Is it not more selfishness
on our part, than ill breeding on theirs.
	Now that women engage in all kinds of
business, and every branch of industry is
open to them the good domestic servant is
very rare. Girls have felt themselves to be
so looked down upon and ill-treated that
they much prefer employment in a factory,
a store, or office work, and yet how much
more of a servant one is in any of these
positions. The hours are always very long
and the girl is seldom allowed to sit down
and is reproved if not “docked” for the
slightest tardiness, while living with a
family, a girl not only has a home, with
plenty of good food but her duties are so
varied that she has the advantage of chang-
ing the position of the body thereby re-
ceiving rest and also physical culture.
There is no better exercise for the lungs
than a little washing. No finer way to
develop the muscles of the arm the nimble-
ness of the hand and expansion of the
chest than by kneading bread. The occu-
pations of a domestic are healthful and
might be enjoyable, if only the mistress
and maid would each endeavor to do her
duty. The former should be firm, but not
overbearing the latter willing to be taught.
There are no rules by which every house
can be governed. Circumstances are so
different and people are so different. But
where a lady tries to teach a girl her ways
pleasantly, and a girl tries to improve and
give satisfaction, no better employment can
be given. House work is not, when prop-
erly managed drudgery, in fact it is an art.
There are many unpleasant things connected
with it, still there are more that are pleasur-
able. The arrangement of a room, the set-
ting of a table, the “doing up” of a piece
of linen, the arranging of the china closet
all afford ample scope for the display of taste
and talent both in color and design. There
is no occupation that cannot be improved
by a little thought and study. As the do-
mestic can study to make her work lighter
and more pleasant, so can the shop-girl im-
prove her position. If she is in a dry goods
store why not take especial interest in color
effects and contrasts, she will soon become
invaluable to her employer, for customers
will seek her ideas, as well as her service
and in the arrangement of show cases and
windows she might become a most perfect
artist. To a very great extent the merchant
depends on his window display for his
custom, and where he finds his clerk apt in
novel arrangement and tasteful in decor-


ation, he is very likely to appreciate her 
talent and advance her position as well as
her salary, I knew of a very lovely and
wealthy woman once, whose husband's
financial ventures brought them to ruin
and she was forced to seek a situation.
She obtained one finally in a large furnish-
ing house in New York, and so exquisite
was her taste in the arranging of the tapes-
tries and laces for the windows and show
rooms, that before long her employer sent
her abroad to the factories of Europe, to select
his rarest goods; a position commanding the
utmost confidence in every respect.
	Do you ever look into your own soul and
find how full of faults you are? One becomes
so used to looking at other people and
"picking them to pieces" that he often for-
gets he may have as many or more faults
himself. How we grumble and complain
to those we love the most, while others for
whom we have not even affection we treat
with perfect politeness and deference!
	Sometimes I fear we must construe the
sacred phrase "those whom the Lord loveth,
He chasteneth," or at any rate we excuse
our own crossness by thinking it is for a
good cause. A little school girl, who had
been complained about and scolded and
punished almost beyond endurance by her 
teacher astonished the school one day by
breaking out with accusations against the
teacher saying "I try so hard and you 
treat me worse than any girl in school,"
imagine the surprise of the child as well as
the other scholars when the teacher calmly
replied "that is because I love you the most
and am more desirous for your advancement."
They understood each other at last and the
explanations of that day formed a friend-
ship between the two which lasted through
life. But what a queer way to display
one's love, it certainly needs an explanation,
after all would'nt kind words even in re-
proof be far better. Many times the hasty
words brings a sad regret that never can be
forgotten, and we injure ourselves more
than we help others by encouraging the
complaining, fault finding habit.
			CAMELIA.


WOMANS EXPONENT.


IN RURAL ENGLAND. XXVII.

	AFTER the wedding of the young heir of
Walton Hall with Lady Anna Hilliard, and
the gossip that naturally follows in a coun-
try district, the next event of importance
was the departure of the heir apparent to
the estate and castle of the old Baron, who
had lived so many years separated from his
kith and kin and without any social re-
lation whatever. Now there was some-
thing to make a stir, when it was known
that Clair the young favorite was about to
travel, and with Lady Hilliard’s old lover
and cousin, “it bodes no good’’ was the
general remark, one old tenant who had
lived upon the Baron’s estate ever since he
was a boy, whispered it about that “she
allers knew that he had too much of the
gipsy blood in his veins to settle down and
be a gentleman,’’ and with her fortune-tell-
ing proclivities predicted desolation and
ruin under such an ill-born master. Joe
Berry the grandson of the ill-omened
gossip, who had been a sort of follower and
admirer of Clair Hilliard, quarreled with his
grandma over her evil predictions, and de-
clared he would follow the young master at
any risk; and against the wishes of all the
old retainers on the place, he begged the
privilege of going with Clair to foreign

[column 2]
parts; finding him so anxious, he called up-
on the old grandmother to gain her consent,
and with his winning way completely capti-
vated her and thus changed the whole tenor
of the gossips of the neighborhood, and
turned the tables in favor of the son of
“the gipsy,” as she invariably dubbed this
foreign woman, whose identity had never
been known about the place, and the tenants
and servants consequently looked upon the
whole affair with distrust and a sort of
resentment.
	Rob Harrison waited in London for his
traveling companion, he did not care to
grow familiar with the place that brought
back so many bitter recollections, nor to be
in the company of Mrs. Bland tho’ he had
no suspicion of the state of her feelings.
He imagined travel the best antidote for
melancholy, and would also furnish the
material for literary work. He was tired of
London its fo[-]s and its bustle and with a
companion of such versatile accomplish-
ments as Clair, and constant change of
scenes and scenery he would be able to kill
time.
	And so they set off—Clair leaving the
old homestead in the care of the lodge-
keeper under Dr. Bland’s supervision, and
the builders who were to repair, and in a
sense reconstruct the house, though as his
cousin Jane had said “without making it in
any way modern.” Mrs. Bland gave him
salutary advice, and their parting was the
only feature of his leave taking that was
sad in the least. He knew that she was not
altogether happy, and could scarcely com-
prehend why she was so interested in Rob
Harrison considering he was not her cousin;
and mentioned the fact to Mr. Harrison
soon after meeting him in London—Rob
Harrison was somewhat startled, when
Clair in his outspoken way said “what the
deuce makes cousin Jane worry over you,
have you heart trouble or consumption in
your family, she speaks of you as utterly
reckless of your own health and welfare?”
	Mr. Harrison replied briefly, “O, that’s
the way with women, I’m sure I’m much
obliged to her though, as no one cares for
me that I know of, lucky to have one
friend.”
	“You forget my sister Anna who
loves you very dearly,” “Ah well! yes per-
haps so but at present she has no thought
except for the one true lover, heaven grant
he may be worthy of such devotion.”
	So the conversation ended, but Rob
Harrison pondered upon Clair’s sayings
and it was a sort of link to bind him to life
even though the future was doubtful and
uncertain. He was too honorable to allow
himself to dwell upon even friendship with
the wife of another man, he knew too much
of the ways of the world, and the doings of
society to indulge in the luxuries that
might bring serious results, and he des-
pised flirtations, but he inwardly resolved
to watch over both the Baron’s daughter
and his niece, and to befriend them should
there ever be an occasion for his services, or
his advice. He little knew what the future
held in store or the changes of fortune that
were soon to transpire.
	One bright morning when all London
was astir with its accustomed noise and
activity Rob Harrison and Clair Hilliard
sailed away, without any regrets for the
gaities of the great metropolis only taking
with them one servant each. Mr. Harrison
was so accustomed to sea voyages that he
forgot his young friend until he was pros-
trated with sea-sickness and Joe was still

[column 3]
worse than his young master. Clair was
homesick now in earnest, he raved of his
sunny home, and his mother, and sitting
by and listening to his incoherencies, Rob
Harrison learned something of his young
life; that his mother who was in reality his
grandmother, had told him that some day
he would be acknowledged, that his dead
mother had exacted a promise from the
hard-hearted old Baron, and that then he
would not have the courage to recognize
his mother’s relatives, who had worshipped
her for her glorious voice and magnificent
beauty.  All this was very touching to a
nature like Mr. Harrison’s and he grew
fonder of Clair, watching over him with
tender solicitude.
	As Clair gradually recovered from his
severe attack of sea-sickness he had faint
remembrances of his ravings and inquired
of Mr. H. what he had said when he talked
so incessantly, but Mr. H. was too wise to
cause him uneasiness and kept the secret 
faithfully, though it seemed cruel that the
woman to whom he had given his ardent
youthful love should have been only second
in the affections of the crusty old Baron, and
was still unaware that the Baron’s hardness 
and oddities were mostly owing to losing
through the duplicity and double-dealing of
Lady Anna’s father-in-law, and his sweetheart
and affianced wife the beautiful imperious
Lady Walton, whose cold and haughty
manner was everywhere noticable. Clair’s
mother knew that she had to make
the sacrifice of her ambition, for
which she had already given up the
friends of her girlhood, for though lowly
born she inherited from a gifted ancestry a
voice and fascination of grace in style and
manner, that carried captive men and women
of all ranks and station who listened to her
bewitching tones. The Baron was charmed
with her voice and eyes, he possessed the
peculiar power often given to men, who have
no outward beauty but who seem inevitably
because of physical courage and strength of
will, to captivate women against their own
better judgment.
	Strange indeed that those noble-minded
women should have been attracted to one,
whom all his acquaintances looked upon as
hard, cold, morose and only companionable
in the hunting chase or at the races. This
is one of the paradoxes yet unexplained.
	The remainder of the long voyage in the
sailing vessel after Clair’s recovery was
particularly pleasant, the weather was fine
and the sea breeze exhilarating and Clair’s
exquisit voice and suave manner were a
constant source of enjoyment to the pas-
sengers especially the ladies on board, who
lavished upon him their sweetest smiled, and
the most polite attentions. Once or twice
Mr. H. thought Clair in danger of losing
his heart to one or other of the young girls,
who were certainly charming in conversation
and vivacious in manner, but Clair though
genial and courteous dispensed his attentions
equally and remained unentangled; un-
der the circumstances it was better so as
such an occurrence would have caused an
entire charge in the programme. Clair was
a delicate, sensitive boy and it was almost
remarkable that he was not more impression-
able but he was so innocent, and entirely
from conceit or affectation. Without, being
aware of it Clair was almost idolized by the
ladies wherever he went.
	Joe Berry survived his sea-voyage and
devoted himself exclusively to waiting up-
on the young Baron, following him every-
where and serving him faithfully. The


two gentlemen were admirably adapted to
make each other happy, the elder one
dignified, scholarly, reticent and sentimental
if not melancholy inclined, the other bril-
liant, musical, versatile and affable inclined
to even an easy freedom of manner, yet 
always maintaining the utmost decorum,
and never lacking in gallantry to women or
respect towards men older or more dis-
tinguished, making himself a general
favorite.
	Meantime while Rob Harrison and Clair
were sailing over the Western sea far away
from the shores of England, the bridal pair
were enjoying their honey-moon after the
manner of devoted lovers in sunny Italy,
and Dr. Bland and his sedate and accom-
plished wife were completely engrossed with
domestic duties; for a new phase of life had
come to them in the advent of a baby boy,
who came with such beauty and innocence,
as to awaken all the chords of affection
that lay dormant in the hearts of the fond
parents. A veritable joy in the household.
All the parishioners rejoiced, and when baby
was christened there was a great rivalry
among the ladies as to who should be chos-
en godmother. From that time Mrs. Bland
was more intensely devoted to her home and
family, almost forgetting Anna and Clair,
save at long intervals, when letters reached
her of the adventures of the one party, or
overflowing happiness of the other.
	Time passed, Maitland and Lady Anna
returned from the continent and took up
their abode in a fashionable part of London,
living in the most aristocratic style, Lady
Walton senior having superintended all the
arrangements, for Lady Anna was totally
unaccustomed to society and had no tact
or talent in such matters. Her native inno-
cence was her chief attraction, there was
something queenly in her dignity neverthe-
less, and wherever she went her beauty and
modesty were commented upon. Her first
visit to the old castle was quite romantic,
after her long absence, the old servants were
obsequious in their attentions and every
new feature of the old building was told
over in detail.
	Her cousin's baby was the most interest-
ing and she never wearied of its praises and
grew almost as fond of the little fellow as
the fond mother herself. She roamed
about the parks and groves, as in the days
of her childhood, visiting her favorite
haunts, and cheering the hearts of the
tenantry with her hearty good will and lit-
tle gifts from abroad.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OUR DARLING GONE.

Tho' many years have come and gone,
	Since our darling left his play,
And fled from his earthly home,
	Yet we mourn his loss today.
We pine for the sweet cherub face,
	For the soft and winning smile,
The voice so full of tender grace,
	Our loneliness to beguile.
No little feet dance by my side,
	No dimpled hands clasp mine,
Life's sparkling cup was dashed aside,
	Ere the lips had pressed its wine.
Now hushed for aye, his pure glad song,
	And the merry laughter's cheer,
No child voice greets us at the dawn,
	That so long we've pined to hear.
Tho' many years have come and gone,
	We weep for our birdie flown,
Wher'er we are, whoe'er is near,
	Without him our hearts are lone.
			L. M. HEWLINGS.


WOMAN.

WOMAN is first to know sorrow and pain,
   Last to be paid for her labor,
First in self-sacrifice, last to obtain
	Justice, or even a favor.
First to greet lovingly man at his birth,
	Last to forsake him when dying,
First to make sunshine around his hearth,
	Last to lose heart and cease trying.
Last at the cross of her crucified Lord,
	First to behold him when risen,
First, to proclaim him to life restored,
	 Bursting from death’s gloomy prison.
First to seek knowledge, the God-like prize,
 	Last to gain credit for knowing, 
First to call children a gift from the skies,
	Last to enjoy their bestowing.
First to fall under the censure of God,
	Last to receive a full pardon,
First to kiss meekly the chastening rod,
 	Thrust from her beautiful garden.
First to be sold for the wages of sin,
	Last to be sought and forgiven,
First in the scorn of her dear brother, man,
	Last in the kingdom of heaven.
So, a day cometh, a glorious day,
	Early perfection restoring—
Sin and its burdens shall be swept away,
	And love flow like rivers outpouring.
Then woman, who loves e’en thro, sorrow
    and shame,
	The crown of a queen will be wearing,
And love, freed from lust, a divinely, pure
     flame,
	Shall save our sad earth from despairing.
That latter-day work is already begun,
	The good from the evil to sever,
The Word has gone forth that when all is
	done,
The last shall be first forever. 
	LU DALTON.


[Column 1]

INTERESTING NEWS FROM
CANADA.
Dear Editor:—
	WITH the dawning of the new year came 
the thought that you had not heard from
this part of the world for some time. Our
community as a whole are in excellent
health, prosperous and industrious. The
winter has been some what unusual, as the
snow that as a rule, came about the last of
December, came in November, and has just
disappeared under the cheering influences
of a glorious Chinook, bare hills, plenty of
grass, and happy stock, are the gratifying
results, without question this is the stock
country, of the North American Continent.
 	A comfortable new meeting house adorns
the hill, its dimensions, 26x40 and built
from .lumber made at the Cardston Lumber,
mills. The grist mill is running now, and 
turns out good flour, cheese from our factory
has sold rapidly, being used exclusively in
the local market, and pronounced by all a
first class article, the store does a booming
business, and pays its stock holders good 
living dividends.
	We have an excellent Church School,
with an attendance of sixty-five or seventy
scholars. Elder Sterling Williams, a graduate
from S. L. L. D. S. College being the teacher.
	The Relief Society having no outside
branches have made their annual meeting
the occasion of general reports and an as-
sembling of outside ranching members.
 	The last held, Dec. second, was most
gratifying in all respects, it came on fast-

[Column 2]
day and in the afternoon reports, speeches
from Pres. Card and other leading brethren
with appropriate exercises by the sisters was
followed by a general participation of old
and young in the novel and amusing draw-
ing of prizes from a “lucky bag” and “fish,
pond,” the presents being donated by the
members of the Society; in connection with
this a lunch stand dispensed the good
things of life to the hungry throng, and all
felt they had the worth of their money and
a neat sum of cash was handed over to the
"new meeting house" fund as the result.
In the evening an excellent programme
was rendered. Music by the brass band,
solo’s on the violin and organ, recitations,
songs and speeches with some fine step
dancing,made up an evening’s entertainment 
not soon to be forgotten. As there are no
poor here who depend on the society, the
means gathered is spent in doing for the
occasional needs of sickness or accident, and
public enterprises.
	The young peoples’ associations are alive
and doing. A Fair in the fall, an Annual
meeting in Dec. with lunch stand, to raise
funds for the Temple and a Leap Year 
ball, the proceeds going 10 the meeting
house, has prevented any sluggishness on the
part of members, and those who are doing 
their duty are happy and content with their
lot, of course we have our grumblers and
rowdy element, as “The gospel net’’ has
some of all kinds no matter where the saints 
dwell.
	The Literary and Dramatic Association 
gave a fine entertainment New Year’s Eve;
the talent here is certainly excellent, all it
wants is to be developed. As the new 
meeting house joins the old one—being raised
some two feet higher, it answers for a stage,
the old part seats about one hundred and
fifty it makes a fine auditorium.
	Last summer so many dear friends were
expected, and I am sure they all felt well
paid for their trip, but like the seasons, they
will surely come, whether we expect them
or not. With the “Compliments of the
season” to all dear friends and a prayer for
“Zion’s cause” I am ever yours,
ALBERTA.
CARDSTON, Jan. 2nd, 1893.


THE ISABELLA CLUB HOUSE.

	THE Isabella Club House is in process of
construction on a beautiful site within a few
minutes walk of the main entrance to the
Fair Grounds. In order to purchase out-
side property and to build a permanent
building it has been necessary to interest
private capital.
	Every membership certificate issued in the
name of the Association will be honored,
the present members having the use of the
Club House for the entire six months for
the membership fee of one dollar.
	The Statue of Queen Isabella is now
ready to be cast in bronze. Those who
have seen it declare it to be a master-piece.
Miss Hosmer considers this her crowning
work and her name will henceforth be link-
ed with that of the great Queen.
	The Isabella Club House, adjoining the
Isabella Hotel is progressing rapidly. It is
a five story structure of brick and stone
with all the modern improvements.
	The walls will be hung with beautiful
paintings, the productions of the Art De-
partment of the Queen Isabella Association.
	The Congress Hall is designed to seat
six hundred people.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	
	EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months
5o cts. No reduction made tor clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50 per month, $300. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street,
second gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours
from 1o a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY - - January, 15th, 1893.


[Column 1]
WOMAN'S PART IN THE
EXPOSITION.

	THE World’s Fair work is progressing
safely and surely in these parts, if one can
judge from appearances. Many ladies are
energetic and giving freely of time and
means others are more backward and need
constant persuading and even urging. Yet
in all probability there will be compara-
tively a good representation from this Ter-
ritory, as we know many articles are begun
by those who have taste and skill, as well as
perseverance to accomplish what they un-
dertake to do. Thinking of the importance
of such an exhibit by the women of the
whole civilized world, it appears strange
that any woman should need encouraging
upon a matter of public interest and benefit,
such as this will most certainly be.
	The women engaged in it, should take
pains to read what others, in the various
states and territories, are doing, and thus
become enlightened generally, so as not to
fall behind the great army of workers.
Money is scarce, and other efforts should
be more energetically applied, many things
can be done with but very little ready cash.
“Where there is a will there is a way,”
may apply in this case as in many others.
	It is a pity that things have been pushed
so late in the season, but improve the lit-
tle time remaining to the best advantage.
	The silk portieres for the Woman’s Build-
ing, are something to be proud of, and the
furnishing of the Utah building will give
the ladies a fair opportunity of displaying
taste, ingenuity, harmony and skill.
	Statistics are' rather slow in coming in,
considering how urgent have been the re-
quests sent out to have them furnished,and
the time it will take the Territorial Com-
mittee to prepare them after they have all
been received.
	There has never been in any age of the
world, such an opportunity given for the
educational progress and advancement in
all departments of intelligence, as will be
afforded by the Columbian Exposition.
What its results and achievements will be,
must assuredly depend largely upon women

[Column 2]
themselves, as there seems to be no bar
to the progress, no limit to the free exercise
and development of whatever powers they
may bring into the field of art, science,
professions, industry or general enterprises,
	It is not likely that all will be equally
inspired with the enthusiasm and courage 
of the momentous occasion, such has never
been the case in any age of the world; but
there are always some who feel the stirrings
of the noble impulses that lead forward the
multitudes who follow on slowly after
them, when once the highway has been
cast up, and so it will be now. The gener-
ations after will realize perhaps more than
those of today, the greatness and magnitude
of this mammoth undertaking that reaches
out to all nations, to come hither to this
goodly land Columbia and compare ways,
means and methods, as well as material ex-
hibits.
	From time to time we have published in
regard to what women are doing, and it is
desirable, that the women of this Territory
should make themselves familiar with the
general arrangements, so that they may
not fall far behind in intelligence, methods
or positive information. There are many
notes of matters pertaining thereto in the
various publications of the day. The
DESERET EVENING NEWS contains, from
time to time, the latest telegrams in refer-
ence to these matters, also the Salt Lake
HERALD and other daily papers, so that any
one need not be ignorant in reference to
what is being done elsewheie as well as in
Utah.


WOMEN’S PAPERS.

	READING recently an editorial, published
in the Woman's Tribune,—the statement
of Mrs. Colby, the Editor, and by the way,
a very able and efficient person for that
position, in reference to the low price of the
paper and the paying circulation, the
similarity of the circumstances to our little
EXPONENT, seemed to call for something
on the subject in our columns.
	Mrs. Colby says the price of the paper
does not pay; but she has been in a large
measure doing missionary work in the suf-
frage cause and so forth; and finally as a
result of the lack of money patronage finds
herself obliged to issue for the present, four
pages instead of eight as heretofore; a step
she says which may be considered back-
ward. Formerly the paper was issued
monthly, then she made it weekly for the
same price etc;—but without capital to back
it, this missionary work has fallen heavily
upon a struggling periodical, this and much
more sound logic bearing upon the same
question.
	The WOMAN'S EXPONENT has done and
is doing missionary work in many respects,
and has not been patronized as it actually
deserves to have been, considering what it
has done, and is doing all the time for the
women of this Territory, and of the Church
of Latter-day Saints throughout all the
Stakes of Zion.
	Whenever any subject pertaining to wo-
men is being treated upon historically or
generally, the EXPONENT is the record re-


ferred to; this has been spoken of so often
seems almost to have passed into a proverb,
in reference to ihe Relief Society that it
but yet some whose influence should
help in this matter almost ignore the fact
of its service to the organizations, and upon
questions of woman’s advancement.
	Would it not be well to make a little 
extra exertion to sustain the first woman’s,
paper started in this Rocky Mountain region,
and actually the first except one “The New
North West” so far as the writer has been
able to ascertain after diligent inquiry, this
side the Mississippi River.
	The Utah Woman Suffrage Association
members should patronize this paper, be-
cause it publishes all minutes of the meet-
ings held here and in other parts of the
Territory whenever possible; and also all 
notices of meetings and conventions in the
interest of suffrage elsewhere,that will give
the ladies here the information required to
speed them onward in the path of progress
politically. The general news of women
should be a sufficient impetus without going
into details to increase the circulation, so
that the money might be forthcoming to
sustain it; it should be remembered that al-
though a few may be very prompt in pay-
ments that many are not, and consequently
delays in issuing, because there must be
means on hand to pay down printer’s and ’
postage bills, and some other incidental ex-
penses. Times are hard and many demands
are made, but the women of Utah should
sustain their own paper, that represents the
cause in which they are engaged, rather
than the papers that have no special inter-
est for them, or the cause nearest and
dearest to their hearts.


EDITORIAL NOTES

	MRS. S. M. KIMBALL one of the best
known women in the community and who
has done a great deal of entertaining, spent
her birthday recently by making a party
for the widows and aged women of the
locality; cheering them with this social
reunion and also with a delicious dinner, all
the ladies came and went in carriages at
her expense. The company enjoyed them-
selves very much and will never forget the
occasion. Such tributes to the worth and
experience of friends are far more delight-
ful and longer remembered than more ex-
pensive parties might be. 
	MRS. KIMBALL also made a party for the
teachers and committees, or aids in the
Relief Society of that Ward which was al-
so a most enjoyable affair, and conducted in
a very social way that made it particularly
pleasant and satisfactory.
	THE Columbian ball which was given in
the Theatre to raise funds for the exhibit to
be made by this Territory, was quite an
elaborate affair in some respects, and yet
not extravagant, and those who are fond of
dancing must have felt well repaid for the
means expended. The ladies of the Com-
mittee spared no pains in working up the
matter, even to going out in the several
districts and selling tickets themselves,
when it seemed as though the people could
not quite appreciate the situation, and the
need of raising funds to purchase material, 
and for other expenses necessary in the ar-
ranging of matters to make suitable, ex-
hibits.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WORK FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR.

	The Bureau of Applied Arts for the Wo-
man’s Department of the World’s Fair has
been placed in charge of Mrs. Candace
Wheeler for New York State. It includes:
applied and decorative painting; stained
glass and glass mosaics; modeling and
plastic ornament; wood-carving, inlaid and
gilded woods; designing and construction
of furniture wall hangings; modem tex-
tiles needle-wrought tapestries and em-
broideries; gold and silver work; pottery
and porcelains; book-covers and book-
binding, etc. The chairman of the Indus-
trial Department for the State is Miss Anna
Roosevelt. This committee desires infor-
mation in regard to the number of wage-
earners or self-supporting women; also
those employed in factories, shops and of-
fices; owning and controlling farms; en-
gaged in mining; in horticulture and flori-
culture; in the professions; in domestic ser-
vice as authors; as teachers; in art-work
and designing; in literary work, or in other
lines.
	National labor statistics should furnish
better data for this work than could be ob-
tained from private and individual sources.
But the data concerning organizations and
societies of women have been added to the
work of the National Industrial Department
by the national board, and its chairman,
Mrs. Helen M. Barker, receives and desires
information respecting name, age, object,
officers, membership, source of income, ex-
penditures.
	The Woman’s Dormitory Association, of
which Mrs. Matilda B. Case, of Chicago, is
president, addresses itself to all single and
self-supporting women. Ten dollars buys
a share which will be taken at any dormi-
tory of the association in payment for lodg-
ing bills. Two persons may use at one time
a single share. These shares will be trans-
ferable, and if the face value is not used by
the holder during her stay, it can be made
over to another, who can use the balance.
After the ten dollars has been used, the
share still stands on the books, credited to
the holder, and she will be entitled to her
pro rata share of the profits, if a surplus
remains after the enterprise is closed. The
rate per day will not exceed forty cents to
stockholders. Each person must engage
her room at least one month before coming,
in order to be sure of accommodation at
that time, and in making application for
stock must state what month and what part
of that month she desires to make use of it.
	The New York State board of women
managers have arranged for an exhibit of
the kitchen garden system at the World’s
Fair. This system was founded by Miss
Emily Huntington at the Wilson Industrial
School, 125, St. Mark’s Place, New York
City, a few years ago, and is in operation
at the present time all over this country.
By its means little children are taught how
to do all kinds of housework, from washing
dishes to dusting a room and making beds,
and this teaching goes on to the accompani-
ment of appropriate songs, so that it is like
play.
	The exhibit will be made in the Children’s
Building, where not only all the furnishings
and paraphernalia of a kitchen garden will
be shown, but where at stated hours the
children themselves will go through the ex-
ercises and thus make a practical exhibit.
It is probable that about once a week there
will be an exhibition of two hundred child-
ren on the floor at one time.


Miss Emily Huntington has consented
to superintend the work herself, and it is
believed that this will be one of the most in-
teresting exhibits organized by women.
	The model kitchen and cooking-school
exhibit, which is also to be carried on un-
der the auspices of the New York State
board of women managers, will prove very
attractive. Cooking is looked upon now
almost as a fine art, and the cooking-school
has become one of the recognized branches
in educational institutions. Miss Juliet
Corson, the originator of the cooking-school,
has tendered her services to the board of wo-
men managers free of charge, and once or
twice a day will give a lecture with practi-
cal demonstrations. This exhibit will be
made in the Woman’s Building.
	These are the two exhibits to which the
women managers of New York have given
their greatest energy up to the present time,
but they are organizing several loan exhibits
which will not only be of great intrinsic
value, but will form a means of education
to workers in the different branches of art
which they represent.
	While there is no definite scheme for a
philanthropic exhibit as yet, it is believed
that a few of the most prominent organiz-
ations will be memorialized in a way to in-
terest sight-seers and do credit to the founders
of the institutions.
	The reports from the various judicial dis-
tricts throughout the State are most en-
couraging. The women managers have
organized sub-committees in nearly all the
counties, and while there are not always
tangible results in the shape of applications
for women’s exhibits, interest is awakened
and there is a local pride shown to bring out
everything that women have done worthy
of being recorded.
	The members of the sub-committee en-
deavor first to obtain the co-operation of the
editors of local papers, for through them
knowledge of the workings of the commit-
tees and of the share women are to have in
the Exposition is best disseminated.—The
New Cycle.


[Column 1]
THE REFORMATION
	Taken within its narrowest limits the
period occupied by the great movement
known as the Protestant Reformation may
be looked upon as commencing with the
year 1517—and drawing to a close in 1545.
It marks the transitional state from long
established Catholicism to a recognized and
growing Protestantism—it commenced with
the teachings of Luther, wherein he re-
nounced much of the Catholic doctrine —and
later the assembling of the Councils of Trent
raised an insuperable barrier between the 
communion of Rome and the Churches of
Protestantism. From that time each com-
munion possessed its distinctive organization
and formulary of faith, and the struggles
which subsequently took place between
Romanism and Protestantism represent
not so much endeavors to bring about, or
resist reform—but endeavors on the part of
each communion to bring about the de-
struction of the other, and the contest which
Luther initiated resulted in complete and
irreparable rupture between the contending
parties.
	The world was tottering on its old foun-
dations when Christianity appeared, the re-
ligion which had sufficed for an earlier time,
no longer satisfied the nations, the mind of
the existing generation could no longer
tabernacle in the convenient forms; the gods

[Column 2]
of the nations had lost their oracles as the
nations had lost their liberty in Rome.
Brought face to face in the Capital they had
mutually destroyed the illusion of their
divinity, a vast void had ensued in the re-
ligious opinion sof mankind—a much simi-
lar condition existed at the birth-time of
Luther and marked the transition from the
mediaeval for the modern era in European
history.
	The corruptions and profligacy of the 
Roman Catholic Church was at its height.
The celebrated and scandalous tax of in-
dulgences are extant, were in full operation, a
mind of the least delicacy would be shocked
at the repetition of the horrors therein con-
tained. Incest was to cost if not detected
five groschen, if known or flagrant, six.
A certain price was affixed to murder,
another to infanticide, adultery, perjury,
burglary &c. "Oh! Shame to Rome," ex-
claims Clauthius of Espera-and we may
add "Oh! shame to human nature," for no
reproach can attach to Rome, which does
not recoil with equal force, on mankind in
general. Boniface VIII. the boldest and
most ambitious of the Popes after Gregory
VII. effected still more than his predecess-
ors had done. He published a call by which
he declared to the Church, that all who
should at that time make the pilgrimage to
Rome, which should take place every hun-
dred years, should there receive plen-
ary indulgence. Upon this, multitudes
flocked from Italy, Sicily, Sardinia, Corsica,
France, Spain, Germany, Hungary, and
other quarters. Old men of sixty and
seventy set out on the pilgrimage and it
was computed 200,000 visited Rome in one
month. All these foreigners, brought with
them rich offerings, and the Pope and the
Romans saw their coffers replenished; the
avarice of the Pontiffs soon fixed the jubi-
lee at intervals of fifty years. Afterward
at thirty three years, and at last at twenty-
five. Then for the greater convenience of the
purchasers and to increase the profits of the
venders, they transferred both the jubilee
and its indulgences, from Rome to all the
market places of Christendom; what others
had been obliged to seek beyond the Alps
each might obtain at his own door.
	The evil was at its height, and then the Re-
former arose. The principle which was de-
signed to govern Christianity had been lost.
	To set up a single caste as mediators
between God and man, and to barter in
exchange for works and penances, and gold,
the salvation freely given by God, such was
Popery.
	To open wide to all, through
Jesus Christ and without any earthly
mediators, and without that power that
called itself the Church, free access to the
gift of God, Eternal Life. Such was
Christianity, and such was the Reformation.
	Popery interposes the Church between
God and man.
	Christianity and the Reformation brings
God and man face to face.
	Popery separates man from God, the Gos-
pel reunited them, such were some of the
teachings of Luther.
	Luther was born on the tenth day of 
November 1433, on St. Martin's Eve, at
Eisleben, Germany. The next day the father
with joy and gratitude carried his son to
St. Peter's Church, they named him Martin
in memory of the day.
	All things were ready, God who prepares
his work for ages accomplishes it when the 
time is come, by the feeblest instruments.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


It is the method of God’s providence, to ef-
fect great results by inconsiderable means.
This law which pervades the kingdom of
nature, is discerned also in the history of
mankind. God chose the reformers of the
Church from the same conditions and world-
ly circumstances, from whence he had be-
fore taken the Apostles. The father of
Luther gradually made his way and estab-
lished at Mansfield two small furnaces for
iron. By the side of these furnaces, little
Martin grew up and it was with the earn-
ings of this industry, that his father was
afterwards able to place him at school. It
was from a Miner’s fireside, that one who
was to recast vital Christianity was to go
forth.
	John Martin in conformity with his pre-
dilections resolved to make his son a scholar.
That new world of light and science which
was everywhere producing vague excite-
ment, reached even to the cottage of the
Miller. The remarkable character and per-
severing application of his son, made John
conceive the highest hopes of his success.
At the age of fourteen Martin with a com
panion, the son of a respectable burgher,
set out for Madgeburg the school of the
Franciscans, Madgeburg was like a new
world to joyous Martin. In the midst of nu-
merous privations, he observed and listened.
A provincial of the Augustine order, was
then preaching with great zeal, the necessity
of reforming religion and the Church.
Perhaps these discourses deposited in the
soul of the youth—the earliest germ of the
thought which a later period unfolded.
	This was a severe apprenticeship for
Luther cast upon the world at fourteen
without friends or protectors. He trembled
in the presence of his masters, and in his
play hours, he and some children as poor
as himself, with difficulty begged his bread.
At Christmas time he remarked, “we would
all go together through the neighboring
villages from house to house, singing, in
concert the usual carols, on the infant
Jesus born at Bethlem,” more than once
over-whelmed with sorrow, he shed many
tears in secret. He could not look to the
future without trembling. One day in
particular, after having been repulsed, from
three houses he was about to return fasting,
to his lodging, when having reached the
place, St. George, he stood before the house
of an honest burgher—motherless and lost
in painful reflections, must he for want of
bread give up his studies and go and work
with his father in the Mines of Mansfield,
suddenly the door opens—a woman appears
on-the threshold, her name was Ursula—
the chronicles of the place call her the Pious,
Shunamite, in remembrance of her who
so earnestly entreated the Prophet Elijah to
eat bread with her. She had more than once
remarked young Martin in the assemblies
of the faithful, she had been affected by the
sweetness of his voice and his apparent
devotion. She now came to his assistance,
bade him enter her dwelling and supplied
his urgent wants.
	Conrad the husband of the good woman
approved his wife’s benevolence, and him-
self found so much pleasure in the society
of young Luther, that in a few days later
he took him to live in his house. From
that moment he no longer feared to be
obliged to relinquish his studies, later on
we find him at a higher institution, of learn-
ing where he most brilliantly distinguished
himself, “the whole University’’ says
Melancthon “admired his genius.”
	[To be Continued.]


[Column One]
	FOREIGN LETTER. 
	[TO MRS. MARY W. MUSSER.] 
	November 7th, 1892.
My Dearest Mother:—
	If my memory serves me well it was just
forty six years ago to day since the world
was made better by the birth of a baby girl,
whose parents, on account of her extreme
loveliness, named her after the queen of
heaven, Mary. Since then this little girl
has grown to womanhood and has proven
beyond a doubt, especially to her large
family of children, of whom I boast being
one that she is the loveliest and best moth-
er in the whole world. Born as our
Savior, though not in a manger, in a place
nearly as humble, a lumber wagon, she
traveled on through her rather humble path-
way until now, forty six years later, she
is, in my estimation, queen Mary II. or
Mary queen of earth with the brightest
kind of prospects of being queen Mary,
with the chosen in eternity. Heaven
bless you dearest mother, and grant that
this birthday is just the noon of your im-
mortal, probation, and that the afternoon
will so out shine the forenoon that the lat-
ter will be lost in darkness. That your
every hour, as the sun grows warmer and
nears the horizon, will be happier and fuller
of real bliss than its precedent. That when
the sun at last sinks to rest, and the angels
come with sweetest music to bear you over
the silvery river, you may be surrounded
by a loving posterity who have lived and
are living in such a way as to insure our
meeting again in that world where all is
love and contentment. This, mother dear,
is my most sincere wish and prayer; could
I wish or pray for more? If so I do with
all my heart for I know the occasion justifies
my so doing. Your birthday! How I
should love to be home to day, to be able to
tell you how much your children love you,
and how hard it is to live away from you.
How impossible! Land and sea to the ex-
tent of ten thousand miles separates mother
from her son. As it is I scarcely have time
to write a respectable letter for I am head
over heels in my Arabic studies, and as I
have employed a teacher to give me a few
lessons I am anxious to make hay while the
sun shines. Besides I have lost so much
time in this mission that it seems I never
can pay up for it, you see when I first came
to Turkey I started to study the Turkish
language, for three months I pegged away
at it and had just got a good start when I
left Constantinople thinking I could study
the language better here in Palestine.
When I arrived here I found that they
spoke nothing but Arabic in this part of the
country. I decided to leave Bro. Haag
here to labor with the Arabs and I would
go farther north where they spoke Turkish
and continue my studying. Bro. Haag was
taken sick and you know the rest. I had
to remain in this part of the country and
accordingly started to learn a third language
in a year and a half, within the year and a
half that I had been away from home, it
seems like I have lost with the Turkish
language about five months, and now I had
to start on another, the most difficult of
all. I know the Lord has blessed me with
this language for I make better progress
than I did with either of the others.
	It is over a month since I heard from any
one on the American side of the Atlantic.
Day after day the Postmaster shakes his
head with a bland smile as I poke mine
through the window with a “Anything for

[Column Two]
Musser this morning?” I am quite sure
some of my mail has been lost on the way.
There was a wreck here a few days ago, I
stood calmly on the shore and watched
twenty five persons drown. Twenty four
hours after, a bunch or package, of my
mail was picked up on shore where the mad
waters had been kind enough to throw it.
It was a package of newspapers that had
been two months on the way. One of the
gentlemen that was wrecked had a letter in
his pocket for me: but in his struggle for 
life he lost it, and I don’t know who it was
from or anything about it. The gentleman
that lost it lost his wife and two bright
children at the same time.
	My health remains “A No!" for which
I feel to thank the Lord. The weather is 
still very hot, the oranges are just getting 
ripe.—I bought a dozen the other day, great
large luscious ones for five cents and I firm-
ly believe, by the way the orange vender
smiled as he pocketed my cash, that he
charged me three cents too much. Give
my love to father and all the loved ones
and accept a bushel from your affectionate
son. 			Don C. W. Musser.


ANNOUNCEMENT.
[The Twenty-fifth Annual Convention of the 
	National American Woman Suffrage 
	Association.]
	To arouse that divine discontent which
shall make women ashamed to remain long-
er in the attitude of wards in their own
country; to stir the dormant sense of justice 
which shall make men unwilling to monopo-
lize all power, as if women were not to be
trusted—such is the task of the coming 
Twenty-fifth Annual Convention of the 
National American Woman Suffrage As-
sociation. This Convention will be held in
Metzerott’s Music Hall, corner F and 12th
Streets, N. W., Washington, D. C., January 
14 to 19, 1893.
	Until women are enfranchised, they can-
not be considered free moral agents. Their
influence over their children is hampered,
their attempts at work of philanthropy en-
feebled, their position in the industrial
world endangered, so long as they remain
political minors, constrained to obey laws
which they have no voice in making. 
	The mission of the National American
Woman Suffrage Association is to awaken 
public opinion to the necessity of bringing 
the practice of the United States Govern- 
ment into harmony with its professed prin-
ciples. Professing itself a government of the
people, it is actually an oligarchy of men.
Professing that the “citizens of each State
shall be entitled to all privileges and im-
munities in the several States,” this United 
States Government permits the States de-
liberately to deprive one-half its people— 
its women—of the only legitimate means of
taking part in the government—the use of
the ballot.
	Such glaring inconsistency between pro-
fession and practice is to be condemned in 
the interest of public morality.
	In laboring to obtain their enfranchise-
ment, women work, therefore, not only for
themselves but for the establishments of
national honor and the elevation of the
whole human race.
SUSAN B. ANTHONY, President.
REV. ANNA H. SHAW, Vice-Pres.-at-large.
RACHEL FOSTER AVERY, Cor. Secretary.
ALICE STONE BLACKWELL, Rec. Secretary.
HARRIET TAYLOR UPTON, Treasurer.
WM. DUDLEY FOULKE, Auditor.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. P. A. REPORTS.

        BEAR LAKE.
	THE Relief Society Conference of the
Bear Lake Stake convened in the St. Charles
Meeting House Sat. 26th at ten a. m.
	The Relief Society Stake Presidency
were present, Prest. J. P. Lindsay presided.
After the usual opening exercises the roll
was called, minutes of last conference were
read and approved after which the statisti-
cal and financial report was read. Eight
branches were reported by Presidents or
representatives, nine not reported.
	The speakers were Prest. Julia P. Lind-
say, Coun. E. Collins, Prest. N. E. Pug-
mire of the Y. L. M. I. A and Prest. An-
nie Laker of Primary Association. Their
remarks were timely and interesting; they
dwelt upon the importance of woman’s
mission, and the necessity of her being en-
ergetic in order to accomplish that which is
required of her. Choir sang. Benediction
by Elder C. C. Kutch.
	Sunday 2 p. m. (Prest. Wm. Budge
present.)  After singing and prayer, the
sacrament was administered to the congre-
gation, during which time the choir sang, 
"Ye children of our God."  The speakers
were Prest. Lindsay, Coun. L. M. Hart
and Elder Lashbrook Laker.
	The subjects dwelt upon were refinement,
cultivation of the mind and the necessity
of doing something to create an interest
with those who are negligent in attending
their meetings.
	Prest. Lindsay spoke of the necessity of
storing grain, did not wish the sisters to
slacken in the least in this duty, it is our
duty because we have been counseled to do
so by those who are placed over us. Con-
ference adjourned for six months, choir
sang, Benediction by Prest. Wm. Budge.
	R. S. Sec. Bear Lake Stake.


FAR WEST
Editor EXPONENT:
	THE Relief Society of Far West is a
small branch, each family lives on their own
Farm, and consequently not handy to attend
meetings regularly. We held our semi-
monthly meeting with a good attendance.
Previous to the departure of our beloved
Prest. Mary Hegsted to join her husband
at Snake River, the Relief Society met
at the Hall to bid her farewell, and good
speed, as well as their well wishes, and the
blessing of our Heavenly Father on her fu-
ture welfare. Sister Hegsted went to Og-
den in the morning, so our worthy Bishop
Mc.Intyre sent her and family an invitation
to meet in the Hall at four o’clock p. m;
when Sister Hegsted arrived nearly every
member of the Relief Society the Bishop
and Counselors and a goodly number of our
leading brethren were present. A table was
spread from the stand to the door full of all
the dainties, orchards, and farms can pro-
duce with skillful cooking. After a few
minutes, all were seated, thanks returned,
and all enjoyed a good repast. Table clear-
ed;—in a few brief words the Bishop stated
the object of the meeting, a nice shawl from
the Provo Mills and a dress pattern were
presented to Sister Hegsted by the sisters,
also a nice Hymn Book with her name in-
scribed. Sister Hegsted was overcome
with joy, and in a few well directed words
accepted the gifts, and appreciated the good
feelings of her dear sisters who worked
hand in hand with her for eleven years.
	On November 3rd a reorganization took


place with the following officers Mary A.
Stevenson Prest. Esther D. Brown, and
Sarah Randall Counselors Christena Hegsted
Sec. Susan Painter Ass’t Sec. Jane Rawson,
Treas. Stake Counselors Harriet Brown and
Sarah Herrick were present from Ogden;
many good instructions, and much good
counsel given, union and a good spirit pre-
vailed. Ever praying for the welfare of the
EXPONENT.
	We remain your sisters in the Gospel,
			MARY A. STEVENSON, Prest.
			CHRISTENA HEGSTED, Prest.


ONEIDA STAKE.

	FIRST quarterly Conference of the
Oneida Stake Relief Society was held at
Weston Dec. 4th 1892.
	Present of Relief Society Stake Presidency
was President Elizabeth Fox and Counselor
Mary Hawks. President Fox presiding.
Singing “How pleased and blessed was I.”
Prayer by Bishop Lewis of Oxford. Sing-
ing, “Afflicted Saints.”
	Prest. E. Fox made a few opening re-
marks and minutes of the Weston Relief
Society meeting of Dec. 1st were read and
accepted; reports were then given by the
following Presidents, Elizabeth Clark of
Weston, Sister Louis of Oxford, Louisa
Benson of Whitney, Sister Bingham of
Clifton, all gave very favorable and en-
couraging reports.
	Sister Hawks spoke of training the young
and of mothers being qualified to teach,
govern and control their children. That
our homes should be ruled by love, and
gave many other good instructions.
	Bro. L. Hawks, a missionary just returned
from New Zealand, spoke of the blessings
we enjoyed here in our mountain home com-
pared with other nations; said the Elders
were doing a good work among the natives;
related some of his experiences, and testified
to the truth of this work. Sang a verse in
the Maori language.
	Bishop Lewis, was well pleased with the
reports and instructions given. Spoke of
the benefits of the Relief Society. Con-
ference adjourned until 2 p. m. singing “In
the work of the Lord,” Benediction by
Bishop John H. Clark.
	At 2 p. m. Conference continued singing,
“Awake Saints of God Awake’ Prayer
by Brother Benson, of Whitney, singing
“Hail to the Brightness.”  Sacrament was
then administered, singing, “How great the
Wisdom.” 
	The Prest. of the Fairview R. S. then
gave a report of their work which was en-
couraging. Prest. E. Fox then addressed
the congregation, gave many good instruct-
ions, spoke of the benefits and necessities
of attending the meetings. Said that we
should cultivate the spirit of God. Teach
the principles of the Gospel to our children
that we should help and assist in building
up the kingdom of God, also spoke of cloth-
ing the dead properly.
	The officers of the R. S. of Oneida Stake
were presented and unanimously sustained.
	Sister Hawks made very encouraging re-
marks also Bishop Clark of Weston.
	Brother M. F. Cowley exhorted the Saints
to forsake all evil, that love and the Spirit
of the Lord should unite us together, and
prepare us to receive the blessings of God,
that mothers should control their children
by that Spirit. Spoke of our pre-existence,
and of the many duties devolving upon us.
Said that Prest. Woodruff had said, that if
it took a month, all who were worthy should


have the privilege of going to the dedication
of the Salt Lake Temple, invoked the bles-
sings of God upon all.
	Prest. Elizabeth Fox reminded the sis-
ters of the necessity of storing up grain.
	Singing "Jerusalem my Glorious Home."
Conference adjourned for three months.
Benediction by Peter Mickelsen.
	ELIZABETH GRASSMAN, 	Sec.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	GREAT difficulties bring out great vir-
tues. 
	A GREAT  person  is known by his ca-
luminators.
	BETTER part with our dignity than your
safety. 
	LOVE sought is good, but given unsought
is better.
	THE English laws punish vice.  The
Chinese laws do more; they reward virtue.
—Goldsmith.
	THE liberties of the press and the liberties
of the people must stand or fall together.—
Hume.
	HE that would make real progress in
knowledge must dedicate hisage as well as
youth, the latter growth as well as the first
fruits, at the altar of truth.—Berkeley.
	AT the inauguration of the Populists in
Kansas, among the speakers announced
were Mrs Annie L. Diggs and Mrs. Mary
E. Lease.
	MRS. MAUDE HOWE ELLIOTT, daughter
of Julia Ward Howe, is about to enter on
the stage, as public lecturer, and begins
with an address on the Salvation Army in
Boston.
	THE Woman's Tribune was issued
daily during the national suffrage conven-
tion at Washington. Send ten cents for the
five numbers to Mrs. Clara B. Colby, 1325
Tenth Street, N. Y., Washington D. C. 
	FRANCES WILLARD and LADY HENRY
SOMERSET are addressing great meetings
in England, amid much enthusiasm. A
monster reception was lately given Miss
Willard by the English Methodists.
	“PARTIES of friends or families desiring
to rent furnished one or two flats, twenty-
five minutes by rail from Columbian Ex-
position grounds, Chicago, can do so by ap-
plication to Ella Tremain Whitford, Harvey,
Ill. Good references exchanged.”
	MRS. MICHA DYER, president of the
Woman’s Charity Club of Boston is re-
ported to be a member of twenty-three clubs
and societies. Of three, she is president,
and until recently she was at the head of
the Ladies’ Association.
	THE Conversational Club of the East
End, Cleveland, O., is stndying “The
Problems of the day.” Among the topics
are “Taxes,” “Immigration,” “The Tar-
ff,” “Commercial and Political Ethics,”
and “Sanitary Science.”
	A ST. LOUIS woman has lately perfected
a singular invention. She has applied for
a patent to cover the process of making
"sweet potato flour." The processes are
those of peeling the potato and kiln-drying
the peel so that it will keep for any length
of time as a food for live stock; of drying
and grinding the potato into three distinct
grades of flour, and also of slicing and dry-
ing it in the form of “Saratoga chips.”


WHAT a grand thing it is to feel that we
can live if we will! It wants only the wish
to be morally great—the wish translating
itself into moral endeavor. We can all at-
tain that supremacy and to the weakest
and poorest debarred by nature and society
from personal prosperity is opened the noble
path of moral grandeur—the royal road of
virtue.
	MARGARET DELAND, the novelist, is fond
of snakes. One summer, when she was
boarding in the country, the land-lord, al-
though very loath to lay any restrictions
upon his charming guest, was finally
obliged to tell her that he must ask her to
discontinue her habit of bringing home
snakes and keeping them in her room, as it
was a cause of great uneasiness to the other
boarders.
	BY invitation of the officers of the Colum-
bian Exposition, the General Federation of
Women’s Clubs will hold a council in Chica-
go next July. Mrs. Fanny P. Palmer, of
the Providence (R. I.) Women’s Club, is
chairman of the committee of the General
Federation for the World’s Fair. The New
Cycle for December, contains a portrait of
Mrs. Palmer.
	A SOCIETY unique among women’s or-
ganizations of a national character is the
Woman’s Republican Association of the
United States. The decision of this society
to become a member of the National Coun-
cil of women of the United States adds
greatly to the value of the latter organization,
the aim of which is to represent not num-
bers but ideas.
	At the present writing the National Coun-
cil of women consists of thirteen national
organizations of women pursuing thirteen
different lines of work all for the betterment
of the present conditions and the uplifting
of humanity.  Among these are missionary
societies and associations for the furtherance
of education peace, social purity, suffrage,
temperance, and philanthropy.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	WE are calledto mourn the death of our belov
ed Sister Isabella Hood Hill Hamilton, who died
of dropsy and heart disease Dec. 2nd 1892. She
was born on the 18th day of Aug. 1849, at Scotts
Bluffs, now State of Wyoming. Daughter of
Patriarch Alexander and Agnes Hood Hill. Mar-
ried Nov. 28th 1870, to Bishop James C. Hamilton.
Sister Hamilton was the mother of fourteen chil-
dren, eight sons and six daughters ten of whom
are living, who with their surviving parent feel
their loss very severely.
	Sister Isabella was a member of the Relief
Society and for many years held the office of
teacher, she was faithful in the performance of her
duties working for the benefit of the Society in
visiting the poor, and comforting those in trouble.
	She was quiet and unassuming in her disposition
but firm in the principles of her religion, in the
persecutions that the Saints have had to endure,
she passed through many trying times when her
husband suffered imprisonment for his religious
belief, she bore up with fortitude and patience,
and many testimonies she bore to the truth of the
Gospel of Jesus Christ.
	She was a loving wife and mother one of those
precious ones whom to know, is to love her kin-
dred ties are numerous there being a large family
of brothers and sisters relatives and friends, to
mourn her loss. Our heart-felt sympathy is ex-
tended to the bereaved family.
	Dear Sister we feel that your home mission has
been filled, the Spirit has been released from its
earthly Tabernacle to perform a work beyond the
veil. Your memory will ever be enshrined in the
hearts of your co-laborers of the Relief Society.
	The funeral services were held in the Mill Creek
Ward House Dec. 5th 1892 notwithstanding it
being a very stormy day, the house was packed
to its utmost.
	Services were conducted by Counselor James


Hanson: appropriate remarks were made by
President Joseph E. Taylor, Bishop D. B. Brin-
ton. Bishop John Neff, C. Jance Hanson, and
several of the brethren.
	The remains were followed to the Salt Lake
cemetery, by a concourse of relatives and friends
to pay their last respects to the dear departed one.
The grave was dedicated by James T. Walters.
	ELIZABETH HILL, Pres.
	FRANCES H. HANSON. Sec.


OBITUARIES.

	RESOLUTION OF RESPECT to the memory of
Sister Permelia Drury Morrill who departed this
life, Sep. 6th 1892, at Coalville, Utah. She was
born on August 20th, 1821 and was married to
Laban Morrill at Nauvoo Ill. Febuary 22nd,
1877. Having joined the Church in an early day,
she passed through the persecution and the hard-
ships shared by the Saints in those days. She
was the mother of nine children, eight sons and
one daughter. She leaves a husband seven years
her senior six sons and one daughter with grand
children and friends to mourn her loss in our
midst she has been a worthy Counselor and Presi-
dent; her work is worthy of emulation by all who
knew her. Her faith and hope in the future
were unshaken. She had the respect of all and
has gone to rest to wait the resurrection morning.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be
printed upon our minutes, a copy presented to
her family and one be published In the EXPO-
NENT.
	Why should you sorrow death is sweet,
 		To those that die in Jesus love,
	Though called to part you soon will meet, 
  		In holier, happier climes above.
	For all the faithful Christ will save
 		And crown with victory o’er the grave.

	There’s consolation in the blow, 
		Although it crush a tender tie,
	For while it lays its victim low,
		Death opens to the world’s on high, 
	Celestial glories proudly wave
		Above the confines of the grave.

	But where the light the glorious light,
		 Of revelation freely flows,
	Let reason faith and hope unite,
		 To hush our sorrows to repose,
	Through faith in Him who died to save
	We’ll shout Hosannah’s o’er the grave.
					SARAH J. SUDWEEKS.

	RESOLUTIONS of respect to the memory of Sis-
ter Mary Ellen Woodhouse White who departed
this life September 6th, 1892. She was born in
Adwick, Lee Street, Yorkshire, England June 21,
1848. Emigrated with her parents to St. Louis,
subsequently to Salt Lake Valley.
	Whereas,—Our Heavenly Father in His infinite
wisdom has removed from our midst our beloved
Sister Mary Ellen Woodhouse White, and—
	Whereas,—She labored faithfully as Treasurer
of the Relief Society, and was a generous and
useful member thereof, and a kind and well be-
loved companion, mother and neighbor. There-
fore be it—
	Resolved;—that we the officers and mem-
bers of the Beaver Ward Relief Society mourn
her loss, realiztng that we have lost an efficient
officer and noble sister.
	Resolved,—That we tender our heartfelt sym-
pathy to her bereaved husband Elder S. O.
White, also to her children,—
	Resolved,—That a copy of these resolutions be
placed on the Record of the Relief Society, and
a copy be sent to the bereaved family and to the
“WOMAN'S EXPONENT.”
				RUTH W. TYLER, President.
				ALICE M. T. TANNER, Secretary.
BEAVER CITY, Nov. 7th, 1892.

	IN memory of Sister Annie Mikesel and daugh-
ter of George and Frances H. Booth Hansen. De-
parted this life Oct. 22nd, 1892. Born Sept. 6th,
1860, at Mill Creek Ward, where she resided with
her parents until her marriage. She was a faith-
ful worker in the Sabbath School, an active mem-
ber in the Y. L. M. I. A. also Ass’t. Sec. in the
Relief Society. When the “Home Dramatic
Club” was organized in the Ward she was chosen
a member, in these duties she was faithful and ef-
ficient. She was very gentle and retiring in her
disposition. She was a dutiful daughter and de-
voted wife and mother.
	She was earnest in the work of God all her life,
in her dying moments she bore a strong testi-
mony to the truth of her religion, it seemed the
vision of the world to which she was so shortly
to be removed was opened to her view she spoke
words of encouragement to her broken hearted

[column 2]
husband, father, mother, sisters and relatives,
told them not to weep, for tomorrow would be
her brightest day. Sister Annie was the mother
of five children two boys and three girls. She
was called to part with her oldest a lovely boy
when eleven months old, also her second child a
beautiful girl at the age of sixteen months, which
was a severe trial.
	“Mother,” she would exclaim “I weep for my
children because they are not,” she has gone to
join them, where there is no more sickness or
sorrow. “Blessed are they that die in the Lord
for their reward is sure. May the Lord comfort
those that mourn.
	She leaves two lovely little girls and a baby
boy eight days old, a devoted husband, parents,
one brother and five sisters, to mourn her loss.
	The funeral services were held at the family
residence in the Fourth Ward, the speakers were
the Bishop’s Counselers of the Fourth Ward, also
Elders George Saville, and Joseph R. Carlisle of
Mill Creek Ward. The remarks were very con-
soling to the bereaved family. Brother Carlisle
spoke highly of Sister Mickesel he had been ac-
quainted with her from childhood. 
	Amongst these present were President E. Hill
and C. E. Snedaker of the Relief Society of Mill
Creek Ward, also Clara E. Carlisle President of
Y. L. M. I. A. and many other friends and asso-
ciates who came to pay their last respects to the
dear departed one.
					ALBERTINA J. NORTH.


DOCTOR MATTIE HUGHES CANNON,

Office: II South, First West Street
Office practice for Diseases of Women from 2
                      until 4 p. m.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
      ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
           AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
                POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches. Millinery, latest
styles, flats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping dono to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
No. 63 E. 	FIRST SOUTH STREET,
			Three doors west of Theatre.

	MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p m

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail 
Cash. House.

R.K.THOMAS
	
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS CAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	AVD JAMES, Box 888 SALT LAKE CITY


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

﻿The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

 VOL. 21.  SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY I, 1893. No.15.


CONTENTS:
	The Reformation. In Rural England—A Story.
The Closing of the Year 1892—C. C. R. Wells.
Lovely Bear Lake—E. B. Spencer.   The Nation-
al Council—Rachel Foster Avery.   Loan Exhibit.
In a Foreign Land—Sarah McMurrin Hilton.   U.
W. P. Club—Gladys Woodmansee.   R. S. Re-
port.    Phillips Brooks—Julia   Ward  Howe.
Notes and News.  Mrs. Lucy S. Grant. Ellen Wal-
ters Winder.   Obituary.
	EDITORIAL:—The Origin of Woman’s Suffrage.
Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—Freedom’s   Echo—Hyacinth.    The
Voyage of Life—E.  A.  Bennion.


[Column 1]
FREEDOM’S ECHO.

In the Western wilds of country,far from out life’s
	tutored sphere,
At the base of Rocky mountains,high and rugged
	low and bare.
Crystal streams and turbid rivers, there meander
	far and near,
Down the dark, deep, narrow canons, o’er the
	plains and desert’s glare.
Rushing on uninterrupted, mingling .with the
	ocean dear.
Here no fair and fertile valley, bids the weary
	traveler stay,
Verdant fields bedecked with flowers, dewy
	meadows are unknown
Only bleak and barren country, covered o’er,
	with sage-brush gray
Uninhabited and lonely, save the red-man’s war-
	like tone,
Here where solitude reposes, desolation holds
	full sway.
But though unattractive seeming, from the moun-
	tain-tops around,
Comes an echo soft and silv’ry, gliding o’er the
	sloping hills.
Whispered by the faintest breezes, till each tiny
	leaf is found,
Which repeats the glorious message, to the birds
	and-winding rills.
Till all nature shouts in gladness, “All with free-
	dom here are crowned.”
Low and sweet this free-born echo, reach the
	traveler’s listening ear.
Silencing the dread of bondage,that h followed
	in the past,
Making each brave, honest exile, free to cast
	away all fear,
Free to seek his God in rev’rence, with a freedom
	that shall last,
Free to live and love his country, free in all that
	makes life dear.
Far away from home and loved ones, treading
	many miles and long,
Bearing patiently privations, sorrows deep and
	pleasures few,
Wand’ring ever to the westward, guided by no
	instinct wrong,
But a wise and prudent leader, marked their
	course each day anew.
Till the morning beams lay scattered, o’er the
	valley wide and long.
Months of toil and ceaseless labor, thread the
	years now come and gone
Years'that yielded richest treasures, turned the
	red-man’s fiercest cries;

[Column 2]
Made the arid plain a heaven of fertility, ere
	long
Caused the treeless waste to blossom, into earthly
	paradise
Proved the industry, faith, courage, of that band
	footsore and wan.
Long, long years have slowly vanished, since
	that cry of freedom rose
Many soul’s have swelled their number, peace
	and happiness to reap
There remain but few reminders, that bring back
	the early woes,
And their true devoted leader, in the cold tomb
	calmly sleeps,
Where the floating flag of freedom, evermore
	shall find repose.
	HYACINTH.
ALPINE, Dec. 10th, 1892.


THE REFORMATION.

	LATER in his teachings, Luther with his
two edged sword, went out to strip the Pon-
tiff of his spoils, and was quite as earnest
against the Pope’s ecclesiastical authority in
Germany as against his temporal power in
Italy. “As a first step,” says he, “it be-
hooves us to expel from all the German
States,the Pope’s legates, and the pretended
benefits which they sell us at their weight
in gold; and which are mere impostures.
They take our money, and  for what?—for
legalizing ill-gotten gains,  for dissolving
the sacredness of oaths for teaching us to
break faith; for instructing us  in sin  and
leading us directly to hell.  Hear this,  Oh
Pope!   Not most holy, but most sinning!
May God from his throne on high, hurl thy
throne ere long to the bottomless pit.
	The Christian tribunal proceeded:  Hav-
ing summoned the Pope to his bar, he cited
before him all the corruptions which fol-
lowed in the train of the Papacy, and  be-
gan to sweep from the floor of the Church
the rubbish that encumbered it.
	He commenced with the Monks as fol-
lows: “Now then, I come to that slothful
crew  who  promise  much  but do little.
What I have to say to you is a  truth, both
sweet and bitter; it is that no more cloisters
must be built for mendicant friars,  God
knows we have enough already—and would
to heaven they were all leveled with  the
ground; vagabonding through the conntry
never has done, and never can do good.”
	The marriage of Ecclesiastics comes
next.  It was the first time that,  Luther
had spoken on that subject—“To what a
condition has the clergy fallen, and how
many Priests do we find burdened with wo-
men and children, and their bitter remorse,
while no one comes  to their aid.  It may
suit the Pope and the Bishop to  let things
go on as they list, but  for my part I will
deliver my conscience,  I will open my
mouth freely, let Pope, Bishop or whoever
will, take offence at it.
	We might for a moment glance at  the
effect of the New  Learning, as it was cal-
led, upon England.  King Henry’s quar-
rel with Rome, soon  snatched the Pro-
testants from the keener persecution which
troubled them after Wolsey’s fall.  The

[Column 2]
divorce, the renunciation of the Papacy,
the degradation of the Clergy, the suppres-
sion of the Monasteries.  The religious
changes fell like a series of heavy blows
upon the Priesthood of Rome.  From
persecutors they suddenly sank into men
trembling for their very lives.  At the
very onset of Cromwell’s changes, a party
of Suffolk boys, toughs in their very nature,
broke into the Church of Doverscourt tore
down a wonder working crucifix and burned
it in the field.  The suppression of the les-
ser Monasteries was the signal for a  new
outburst of ribald insult to the old religion.
The roughness, insolence, and extortion of
the  Protestant  commissioners  drove  the
whole monastic body to despair.  Some
sold their jewels and relics to provide for
the evil day they saw approaching.   Some
begged of their  own  will for dissolution.
It was worse when fresh ordinances ordered
the removal of objects of superstitious ven-
eration, embittered  by  the  insults with
which it was accompanied.   Revolt and
nnovation was everywhere rampant, when
Mary,  so called, Bloody Mary—appeared
upon the scene.  She now more energetic
than the Protestants in the establishment of
their cause, violently overturned their sys-
tem and avenged her mother against her
father, by restoring the Papal sway, and
making heresy the unpardonable sin.  Re-
volt was everywhere stamped out in blood,
and warning was wasted on the fierce bigot-
ry of the Queen.  We acknowledge all her
recorded actions but let it  be remembered
she was the child  of  a  basely repudiated
mother, Catharine of Aragon,  who as the
daughter  of  Ferdinand  and  Isabella of
Spain, was a Catholic of Catholics.
	Mary had been declared illegitimate, she
was laboring under an incurable disease
affecting her mind as well as her body.
She was the wife of Phillip the II of Spain,
a  monster of iniquity.  She inherited her
bigotry from her mother and strengthened
it by her marriage, and she thought in per-
secuting heretics,  she  was  doing God’s
service.
 	After a sad and bloody rule of five years
she died without leaving a child.   There
was  but  one  voice as to her successor.
Delirious shouts of joy were heard through-
out the land, “God save Queen Elizabeth.’’
No more burnings at Smithfield or behead-
ings on Tower Green.  No more of Spanish
Phillip and his pernicious bigots! toleration,
freedom and light.  The people of England
were ready for the golden age and the gold-
en  age  had come.   Wonderful was the
change.  With Elizabeth began a reign the
like  of  which  the world had never seen.
A  great  and   brilliant  crisis in  English
history, in which the old Order passed away
and the new was inaugurated.


HALF a million dollars has been presented
to Hamburg, Germany, by Herrvon Don-
ner, a native of that city, to found a wo-
man’s hospital in honor of a woman physi-
cian, Dr. Michelsen, to whose skill he be-
lieves he is indebted for his wife’s recovery,
from a dangerous illness.


WOMAN S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
IN RURAL ENGLAND.
XVIII.
	THE visit of Lady  Anna  Walton  to the
old home and to her cousin was very pleas-
ant, and proved to her old friends how true
and womanly  she  was  in  her  affections,
and that time and  travel  and  new  scenes
could not wean her from the old, nor change
her  friendship  towards   those  beloved  in
earlier days.   It was quite remarkable that
she should  have  so  much  native  dignity
and elegance,and be so constant and sincere,
considering the pernicious teaching  and ex-
ample of French  governesses; but it was
due in a great measure to the influence and
sound judgment of cousin  Jane, and also
to the inheritance of a  noble  ancestry, in
fact  Lady  Anna had good  blood in  her
veins.
	She  thoroughly  appreciated  now  the
sensible  advice  of  her   wiser and more
discreet cousin,and clung to her as though
she were her  mother  or older sister;  she
seemed to care less for Lady Walton senior,
and to be less  infatuated  with society; in
fact she had begun to  comprehend the res-
ponsibilities of married  life and looked to
her cousin as the examplar of all that was
beautiful and lovely as a wife  and mother;
and yet she felt her love for  Maitland  sur-
passed in quality that of Jane  for the  doc-
tor, and it astonished her to see how deliber-
ate and calm Mrs. Bland  was on all  mat-
ters of equal interest to husband and wife
whereas she was impulsive, exacting and
selfish.
	Lady Walton  decided to return  to Lon-
don without her  cousin  and  insisted upon
her promising  a  visit  during  the  coming
winter, which plan  was  presented  to  the
doctor and agreed to before  her  departure,
although the doctor  was  reluctant, yet he
wished he might attend  his  former  ward
instead   of  another   physician,  and  was
aware one would be needed ere long.
	The parting was much more affecting than
when Anna  had  started  on  her  wedding
tour, and many tears were shed  and kisses
interchanged,  for both ladies felt  the near-
ness  of kin and the bonds  of womanhood
that united them  in  common  sympathy.
As for Maitland he had paid little attention
to his wife during her  visit occupying  her
time  in  hunting, fishing  and  racing, and
among his former associates, “a jolly good
fellow;” Anna knew he was less tender and
scrupulously attentive   but  reasoned that
when she had him all to  herself again, he
would be more devoted, in fact made every
excuse possible as women ever do for those
beloved.   She would give up all for him
while he made no sacrifice for her, and was
rather glad to show him how  willingly she
relinquished all her old preferences for his
dear sake.   His mother was very unhappy,
the   father   was a   helpless   invalid and
chronically jealous, and  poor Lady Walton
really had a sad time of it;  far   different to
the  palmy days  of her earlier womanhood
when she had been considered the reigning
belle in the locality  where she  lived, and
one who always created a sensation among
society   women   in   London   during   the
fashionable season.
	Lady Walton was a gifted woman intel-
lectually and now that  she was  left much
to herself and to wait upon  an invalid hus-
band,   her thoughts   turned   more in the
direction of such pursuits and small charities
to those about  her   household and in her
immediate vicinity.   This gave her  some
satisfaction, and she also scribbled consider-

[Column 2]
ably for a lady of her time quite out of the
ordinary  routine  of  titled dames, and  in
fact she began to realize that she was no
longer young, and it had a sort  of depress-
ing effect  that  was in  a measure  salutary,
though it is not strange that she  should re-
pine and grieve when shut  out, as  it were,
from those who had flattered  and worship-
ped at her shrine of beauty and accomplish-
ments.    The fact was she had nothing sub-
stantial  to  fall  back   upon;  soured  with
disappointments and vexed almost beyond
endurance with the repinings of her hus-
band  whom she  could never  please;  not
even when she  made  every  exertion to do
so;  more  often,  however,  they  quarreled
and sometimes Lady  Walton looked  upon
her life, not only as a failure but a burden.
All aimless lives such as hers had been, be-
come monotonous when  by  circumstances
one is compelled  to  leave  the  bustle and
turmoil of the gay world,and retire to home
life and country  pleasures.   The ambition
for show and vanity that had  characterized
the life  of this  beautiful  and  attractive
lady had  received a  severe blow, almost a
chastisement, and  yet she could  not  find
consolation in religion never having devoted
time or attention to the subject,instead hav-
ing lived  in   quite   another   atmosphere
where those higher  and  holier aspirations
of the soul were held in a sort of irreverence.
	Lord Walton  would not even conform to
the usages and obligations of the Church of
England except as his position required him
to,and his wife had never given the slightest
thought to such matters, save  when some
fashionable friend  had interceded with her
for  her influence     in   some    charitable
undertaking.
	Lady Walton was much interested in her
son’s wife and  wanted to spend  the winter
in  London,  made  up  her  mind  to do  so
even against  the  protest  of  her  husband,
who declared it was only a  whim, and he
could not consent to her absence.
	“I shall  go  however, with  or  withont
your approval,”  said   Lady  Walton  one
evening after they  had  argued  the  point,
rather excitedly.    ‘‘I cannot endure this
sort of thing much longer and besides Anna
has  no  mother  to  be  with her  or  sister
either, and it is my duty.”   “Duty, echoed
her  husband,  duty  indeed,  have  you  no
sense of the duties of  a  wife, no doubt you
will rejoice  to see the  families  of Walton
and Hilliard still futher united in another
generation, there  seems to  be a fatality in
the affair, why  should  my son fall in love
with that girl?   Only that you were infatu-
ated with the father,” and this in a  tone of
bitter exasperation.
	“One would think you might be satisfied
when the  lineage is yours, don’t you want
your name perpetuated?”
	“That might have been done as easily if
Maitland had chosen a Chatham or a Mowry
why the deuce should he go after that Hil-
liard girl when there were dozens to choose
from?”
	“Because she was the most lovely and at-
tractive girl  in all the  country  round, and
you yourself my Lord, cannot help confess-
ing that.”
	“The girl  is  well enough, sweet-spoken
and accomplished hasn’t much spirit though,
too  lackadaisical  for  my  liking,  nothing
very fine about her, common place in fact,
her father was common  enough  withal his
high temper and aristocratic notions, mar-
ried a gipsy and brings her son here to rank
with gentleman, disowns  him  in his  life-
time.”

[Column 3]
	“You know  why  he  married  beneath
him,” said Lady Walton now fully roused,
but repenting the moment  she had spoken,
lest he should make a scene, Lord  Walton
screamed, “yes I do know, and you repent,
no doubt,  not having been the companion of
his solitude,  the  mistress  of that  tumble
down castle, you never forget to  taunt me
with this dissolute old Baron, from whom I
saved you, what sort  of  life would  a  wo-
man  fond  of society have had with him?
You ought to be very grateful to me for the
part I played in this matter, tho’ you never
knew it all, nor ever  will now he is  dead.”
	Lady Walton controlled her  temper well,
she knew more  than he  was aware of, but
was too wise to betray   the  knowledge she
had gained  on  that eventful  night  when
the Baron had unlocked the  portals of that
buried past.
	“Then there   is  something  to  disclose
more than  I  know,   well keep  the  secret
buried I have no wish  or  desire to hear it,
for what could it avail now  be it  what it
might,  we  are  neither  of us  young, and
should not repine at our lot, while we have
our children left to maintain the honor and
dignity  of  the  house  and  name   of the
family.”
	“Your moralizing is new Helen methinks
when  did  you   become  so  much of  a
philosopher, then  I  suppose  you will give
up this visit  to London, and  content your-
self playing  checkers  with  me  instead of
renewing  acquaintance   with  my former
companions in the gay metropolis, well  for
you, they are not  all  to  be  trusted  when
husbands are  rheumatic  and must keep at
home, I’m glad Helen  you are so  reason-
able.”
	“I shall certainly go  to London Henry,
but if you cannot remain here  I  will take
you with me, and wait upon  you there, but
go I must and will.   There will  be some
society in the  house, Dr.  Bland  and wife
and that may help me to pass the time more
easily,   Mrs.  Bland  you remember is the
most clever woman and may even  interest
you.   I recollect your  telling me  the high
opinion Burke  and  Hemenway had of this
young woman years ago,  do  you  recall
what they said of her?”
	“Yes I have not forgotten, but  I do not
admire such masculine  women,  know as
much as men, can talk on any  subject,  fit
to sit in Parliament,  none of that for  me,
couldn’t be under  the same roof with her;
rules her  husband, will ruin  his practice
doubtless,  had  no  dower  to  bring  him
either poor fellow.”
	“But he was desperately in love with her
and as for the  dower, her  uncle left her a
legacy, and she has a son that  is somewhat
of a dower for  the old doctor, who  might
have been her father  by his  age.  She will
not interfere with you—no fear of  that, she
would soon observe your antipathy  for wo-
men of opinions;” and so the dispute ended
amicably without either giving in.
	Next morning Lady Walton  gave orders
to the household that everything  was to be
ready for the journey  to  London  within  a
week; she knew  the steward would carry
the news to  his master forthwith and she
was prepared to maintain her position even
if it cost a struggle.
	Lord Walton  fretted   and  fumed  and
swore vigorously but it had  no effect upon
his wife unless to make her more determined
to go, and  in less than  a week, they  were
packed inside the family coach and journey-
ing  towards  the    capital.   Luckily   the
Doctor,  who   attended   the  invalid,  had


entered into the plan, believing the change
would be beneficial to his patient and urging
him to try it.
	The Waltons had got comfortably fixed
before Dr. Bland and his wife arrived, Lady
Wlaton determined not to go to their own
house but stay with Maitland that she
might see something of life and not be
buried alive in the great city as she express-
ed it.  Lady Anna was very glad to have
her there, thinking Maitland would remain
more at home, for he was seldom with her,
and she had grown quite nervous about
him, dreading to know where he spent his
time, for entreat him as she might he per-
sisted in staying away.  Indeed she had
thought that when her cousin Jane came,
he might be more neglectful than ever, but
fancied he would be more attentive to his
mother and that things would shape them-
selves more favorably.  She was over-sen-
sitive and slept little, he could see her eyes
were sad but it failed to keep him at home;
she'll be better by and bye he thought, and
recklessly pursued his recreant course re-
gardless of consequences.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE VOYAGE OF LIFE.

WE start across life's sea with shout and song,
Gathering our cargo as we sail along,
Good deeds, kinds words, dear friends, bright
	gems of thought,
These are among the treasures to be caught.
We dive deep down in wisdom's realm so fair,
To cull her dainty jewels rich and rare;
To deck our ship, that o'er life's mystic sea
No clouds may come to dim its brilliancy.
Let not the salt sea spray dash o'er our freight,
To tarnish it, diminish worth or weight,
Ster straight ahead, let no false light betray,
Breakers are hid beneath, each side the way.
Now as we near mid-ocean, storms arise,
And murky clouds and mist, o'er spread the skies
Then, when the troubled waters round us roar,
We cull our richest gems from Sorrow's store.
Sweet Faith and trust now meet us, oft we trace
'Neath Sullen waters, Mercy's smiling face
Then when through shifting clouds the sun ap-
	pears,
We, to our store have added, grateful tears.
Some goodly ships are hastened into port,
Their time for gathering cargo is but short,
The Owner calls in accents low and kind,
They pass us by, and leave no trace behind.
Some laugh their ships with promise fair and
	bright,
A long and happy voyage, greets their sight;
The sea is calm and still,no cloud is seen
Even faintly mirrored on its glistening sheen.
Why should they toil?  The heavens are full of
	days,
'Tis sweet to linger in life's pleasant ways,
Why haste?  The distance hides the far-off shore
They soon can load their ships with richest store.
And thus they drift along in idle pleasure,
In keeping with the waves soft swishing measure
No one to steer, no steady hand to guide,
While treacherous quicksands whirl on every side.
"Oh!  see the storm-cloud gathering thick and
	fast,
Will ye not labor ere the day is past
Can ye not hear the angry waters roar
And o'er ye, see the eager petrel soar?"
Oh!  come to us, We'll help you, fall in line
Our Captain guides us with a power divine,
We'll show you where bright, shining pearls lie,
Come now and gather in a full supply.


With straining eyes we watch the fated ships,
As idly on the wave each heaves and dips,
Alas! they do not heed the warning cry,
Too late, too late, the blinding storm is nigh.
Thrice happy be, who when his voyage o'er
Has life's best gifts and graces in his store,
Who, when the Master Owner calls "Return,"
Presents his ship well laden from stem to stern.
	E. A. BENNION.
SALT LAKE CITY Jan. 26th, 1893.


[Column 1]
THE CLOSING OF THE YEAR 1892.

	I DO not know a more prolific theme,
nor one that would be more interesting,
than the one I have chosen, but I fear that
in the hurry and bustle of the closing year
shall fail to do it justice. 
There are many things before us to con-
template if we had time to devote to their
contemplation, but we are truly living in a 
fast age when all things seem to be hasten-
ing, to their final consummation, there seems
to be a wild rush by many after wealth,
while others are strugling for a bare pit-
tance, some are almost solely devoted to
pleasure, while duty stands in the back-
ground totaly neglected. Strife is rampant
in families in neighborhoods in
municipalities in States, and I have not had
time to read the Congressional news during
the present session, but the closing scenes
of the last one, were about as stormy, as
we would suppose that cultivated gentlemen
and lawmakers of a great supposably civil-
zed nation such as ours, could make it.
	Indeed one might think to look around
them, and read the newspapers, that peace
was taken from the earth, and yet we are
living in the last days, when people are
supposed to be preparing for the coming of
our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, for I be-
lieve that not only the Latter Day Saints
have faith in his near advent but the whole
Christian world seems to feel more or less
the Spirit of the times, and that great events
are about to transpire. Many shifting
and changing scenes are constantly passing
before us, like a moving panorama but as I
have only to deal with the clos-
ing of the year, I will try to portray our
situation in a measure as it is to day. We
as a people are blest with the sunshine of
peace, and with a good degree of prosperity,
also with a fair proportion of health and
strength for all of which we should be very,
very grateful to our Heavenly Father and
with the close of this year (although as a
rule I am not given to spasmodic New Year’s
resolutions) we should make a great effort,
with His help, to make the Year 1893 a
more fruitful one of good works, and de-
votion to Him and His cause than the out-
going one has been.
	The close of the present year finds many
mportant subjects before us, a few ol which
shall mention the autagonism betwixt
capital and labor, the peculiar amnesty
granted to some of our brethren, and still
greater than all other things are the World’s
Columbian Fair, and the completion and
dedication of our beautiful Temple of the
World’s Fair I shall not have much to say
only that it is expected to be one of the
most important events that has occurred in
the history of the world, and its magnitude
so great, that one’s mind can hardly grasp it
just think we have had ward fairs, county
fairs, city fairs, and Pri-
mary fairs, but this will be the World’s
Fair! All the world is expected to contrib-

[Column 2]
ute to it, all the world is expected to go to
it. Chicago is the favored city where so
much of interest will be gathered together,
Chicago henceforth, no doubt will consider
herself crowned Queen but to the hearts
of the true Latter-day Saints, Chicago apd
the World’s Fair, will fall into insignificance
when compared to the more important
event of the dedication of the Holy Temple
of our God!
	Think of the millions that have died
without the Gospel! Whose spirits await
redemption! Think of the labor of love
that lies before us, in assisting in that Holy
house to bring to pass that redemption!
Are we ready for it? Are our hearts, and
homes set in order? The Lord has said,
“He would suddenly come to his Temple?”
if he should do so at the dedication thereof
should we be ready to meet him? Or would
the parable of the ten virgins be fulfilled
and find us all asleep. “No man knoweth
the hour of his coming,” but let us scan
the situation, as it presents itself to us at
the close of this year, and study the signs
of the times, and square our lives in ac-
cordance with what should be required
providing that great and important event
were to transpire, that though we may be
asleep, we may at least be found among
those who will have oil in their vessels,
and their lamps trimmed and burning.
	C. C. R. WELLS.


For the EXPONENT:
		LOVELY BEAR LAKE,
	Seen from different places, this Lake pre-
sents many phases, and Summer and
Autumn months gave varied and beautiful
pictures now retained in memory.
	The first, a summer day. Glimpses of
the dark blue lake between vivid green trees;
a long cool ride along its banks under over-
hanging trees, brown mountains on the
West, the placid Lake on the East, Garden
City and Fish Haven gemming its borders,
until, passing Fish Haven, the trees vanish-
ed, and in their place broad green meadows
spread to meet the lapping of the waters of
the Lake,that stretched Eastward.
	Second, a picnic party, gathered at Fish
Haven, merry and joyous beneath the trees.
	The hazy blu of morning, and bright sil-
very shimmering sheen had departed and as
afternoon advanced, a deeper blue air spread
the Lake still growing bluer, as the hours
wore on.
	Third—a noon-day Lake scene. Stand-
ing midway on the Northern shore mag-
nificent desolation met the eye. No trees
were apparent to soften the outlines. The
Lake stretched Southward, brown mountains
rose on the East. The Western mountains
yellow and red with Autumn glories, beauti-
ful blue was the Lake, breaking into laugh-
ing ripples of silvery whiteness.
	Fourth—a gorgeous Autumn afternoon
scene. The trees decked in golden tints,and
maples in flaming scarlet, enough green left
by Jack Frost to set off the brilliant colors
of his jacket to the best advantage. Lovely
between the openings of the trees lay the
blue waters of the Lake. Points decked
with gorgeous trees run into the Lake, and
at the Southern part, the blue sky above,
the clear blue Lake beneath, the shadows
of the Eastern mountains reflected on the
water, the blue ribbon of water between .he
shadows and the shore. Lake Loan in the
distance, Autumn trees fringing the Lake,
made a sweet, rich placid, beautiful picture
ever to be remembered.		E. B. SPENCER.


116						WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	 -	       -          Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office. No. 25 E., South Temple Street,
second gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	FEBRUARY 1st, 1893.


THE ORIGIN OF WOMAN’S
				SUFFRAGE.

	A TENDENCY to political freedom and in-
dependence seems to have become more
wide spread and intense ever since the reign
of Elizabeth of England; in fact that century
was a revolutionary period and an awaken-
ing with men and women in the matter of
liberty of conscience and individual rights,
and from that time women became more or
less distinguished in matters civil and
political as well as in literature and science.
	Without going into details we find in
America, Abagail Adams,Mary Warren and
Mrs. Bache, arguing and insisting upon wo-
man’s having representation in the govern-
ment;—Mrs. Warren was the sister of
James Otis author of the memorable saying,
“Taxation without representation is tryan-
ny,’’ Mrs. Bache was the daughter of Dr.
Franklin; however the first instance men-
tioned of a woman actually declaring that
the franchise should in justice be extended
to her sex, was Mrs. Hannah Lee Corbin
sister of Gen. Richard Henry Lee of
Virginia who replied to her on that occasion
that women had the right to vote in
Virginia; and it is a matter of record that
women did vote in that State at an early
day. Also that in 1776 the right to vote
was secured to the women of New Jersey
and that they exercised it for over thirty
years.
	But the famous struggle for woman’s
political emancipation grew out of the grap-
ple with slavery. Wm. Loyd Garrison
opened up the conflict on that question
when he established the Liberator, an Anti-
Slavery paper. His coadjutors were Wen-
dell Phillips, Charles Sumner, Theodore
Parker, Gerritt Smith and others of like
fame, and they were aided and in-
spired in their work by such women as
Lydia Maria Child, Sarah and Angelina
Grimke, Lucretia Mott, Abby Kelly, Helen
Garrison and Ann Greene Phillips, these
women both wrote and spoke with the
greatest force and fervor, and conservatives
in Church and state were alarmed, and war
was declared against these eloquent wom-
en, so that a double battle was forced upon
the abolitionists—for the rights of women
and the freedom of the slave. The doc-
trine of human rights was discussed anew
and exhaustively, and the platform and the
press teemed with arguments for woman’s
rights which are still being repeated in our
own day and time; but these women daunt-
lessly continued their work notwithstand-
ing opposition and persecution.


﻿In 1840, a World’s Anti-Slavery Conven-
tion was called to convene in London and
all the anti-slavery organizations in the
world were invited to send delegates, sever-
al American societies elected delegates six
or eight of them were women among them
were, Lucretia Mott and Mrs. Phillips. The
excitement caused by their appearance in
London was intense, the English
Abolitionists being much more conservative,
and those women who had come “had rent
the American Anti-slavery Societies in twain;
had been denounced from the pulpit and by
the press, and mobbed by the riffraff in the
street;”and the cry was “they who have
turned the world upside down have come
hither also;”—and they were if possible
more alarmed when they saw that the wo-
men delegates, who were not clad in the
Quaker garb—were young, cultivated and
refined.
	A debate followed on the admission of
women, during which many of the men
delegates from America sided with the
English opposition. The battle for wo-
man’s rights was fought over again on the
other side of the water with moral force
and logic, as in America the year before.
Some of the noblest women of England
attended this convention as listeners and
spectators and the lesson was not lost upon
them. When the vote was taken on the
admission of women delegates they were
excluded by a large majority. Wm. Loyd
Garrison had not yet arrived in London,
but when he was informed of the decision
of the convention, he refused to take his
seat with the delegates, and throughout
the entire session which lasted ten days he
remained an absolutely silent spectator in
the gallery; one other delegate followed
his example Nathaniel P. Rogers of Con-
cord, New Hampshire and editor of an
Anti-Slavery paper.
	This London Convention marked a new
era in the cause of equal rights, and at the
close of the exasperating and insulting de-
bates Lucretia Mott and Elizabeth Cady
Stanton, (then a young bride who had ac-
companied her husband who had been
chosen a delegate,) decided to hold a Wo-
man’s Rights Convention on their return to
America; meantime the women who had
taken hold of the subject kept agitating
these questions, and prepared for the com-
ing crisis. This convention was called
for the 19th, and 20th, of July 1848 at
Seneca Falls New York the time seeming ripe.
	Daniel O Connor said to these leaders
in the movement, “Demand the uttermost
and you will get something.”
	These women were outspoken in terms and
demanded, “equal rights in colleges and
universities, trades and professions; the
right to vote, to share in all political offices,
honors and emoluments; to complete
equality in marriage, equal rights in prop-
erty, in wages for equal work, and in mi-
nor children; to make contracts; to sue and
be sued; to personal freedom; and to serve
on juries especially when women were
tried.”
	This first Convention adjourned to meet
in Rochester Aug. 2nd, 1848. Immense
crowds were in attendance and the greatest
interest manifested in debates and discus-
sions. Afterwards conventions were held
in Salem Ohio 1850, Akron 1851, in Mas-
silon 1852, in Ravenna 1853. Advocates
of the cause increased; the historic women
connected with this movement are those
whose deeds have been handed down to us
well known at the present day, Frances D.

[Column 2]
Gage, Jane G. Swisshelm, Celia Burr,
Lucy Stone, Antoinette Brown, Elizabeth
Oakes Smith, Ernestine Rose, Susan B.
Anthony, Caroline M. Severance and
others.
	The first National Woman’s Suffrage
Convention was held in Worcester Mass.
October 23, and 24, 1850—nine states were
represented—the audiences were it is said
“at the white heat of enthusiasm.” Among
the noted people who espoused the cause
were Ralph Waldo Emerson, Theodore
Parker, Henry Ward Beecher, Wendell
Phillips, Thomas W. Higginson, Wm. J.
Bowditch, Abby May Allcott, Ednah D.
Cheney and many more grand men and wo-
men, who gave their talents and their wealth
to the furtherance of the cause.
	A dozen years of pioneer work, petitions
to legislatures for the modification of unjust
laws, and the increased circulation of papers
in the interest of women created an in-
fluence that was felt for good all the country
through. Then came the Civil War when
all reform work was suspended temporarily
and women began a collossal work of
relief and philanthropy. Clara Barton in
hospitals and bringing order out of chaos,
hope out of despair, Clara Barton at Ander-
sonville where 12000 soldiers had suc-
cumbed to the horrors of the military
prison awoke the gratitude of the nation.
	Since the war women have organized on
a scale of great magnitude. It is not pos-
sible to tell of the progress of this great
upheaval, in woman’s advancement, only
the briefest mention can be made; but our
readers are perhaps aware that after the
activity awakened upon many questions
of great importance, in 1869 the result
culminated in the forming of the great
national organizations styled the National
Woman Suffrage Association, and the
American. The National established its
headquarters in New York,and published a
weekly paper the Revolution edited by Mrs.
Stanton and Miss Anthony. The American
had its headquarters in Boston and the
Woman's Journal was founded which is
still in existence.
	Though the Revolution afterwards,
through some unwise contributors, became
so decidedly radical and erroneously pro-
nounced that it was denounced by those
who had before been its firm supporters.
	The State Woman Suffrage Associations
organized in different parts of the country
became auxiliary to one or the other of
these parent Associations, and in some few
instances to both. The National invariably
held its annual Conventions in Washing-
ton while Congress was in session—the
American itinerated from state to state
where ever the greatest amount of mission-
ary work seemed possible.
	After twenty years of separate work a
union of the two national organizations
wras affected in 1890 under the composite
title of the National American Woman Suf-
frage Association. These bare statements
of facts do not give a hint of what has
been accomplished during these last forty
years but in thirty states and territories wo-
men have been admitted to certain
privileges in the way of representation;
and that the outlook at the present time is
more hopeful than ever before we, who are
working in these great organizations of wo-
men can plainly understand.


THE Wells Memorial Institute of Bos-
ton amended its by-laws last week so as to
make women eligible to membership.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Conference of the Relief Society of
this Stake of Zion, will be held in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms in this
City, Friday March 17th, 1893. This will
be an important time in view of the Temple
dedication and the work for the Columbian
Exposition and the several branches in the
County should be ably represented that
there may be a proper understanding of
what is expected. There will be two meet-
ings, one at 10 a. m. and one at 2 p. m.
and no doubt much valuable instruction
will be given on matters of grave impor-
tance.
	MRS. ELIZABETH STEVENSON gave a
party to a few old time friends, December
29,and an elaborate dinner,and the ladies en-
joyed themselves as usual when she enter-
tains. She is one of the genial hostesses
who knows just how to entertain her
guests, and never fails. She has been
noted for her hospitality for some years past,
and her popularity in this respect is not
waning but on the increase. The company
all testify to the good time participated in,
as well as the excellence of the viands and
the genuine welcome always extended to
the honored guests.
	MRS. ELMINA S. TAYLOR gave a pleasant
party, Friday evening Jan. 13th, to a few
of her intimate friends. The rooms were
very handsomely fitted up and the decor-
ations of smilax and flowers daintily ar-
ranged, made a picture charming to remem-
ber; the refreshments were very delicious
and elegantly served, and the whole affair
was a perfect success. Mrs. Taylor is one
who shines brightly at home as well as in
public, and knows how to entertain her
guests in the truly hospitable style. Each
lady had a small bouquet of flowers and
smilax tied with ribbon,and card with name,
date, and motto daintily tied with ribbon.
After the repast when all had gathered 
again in the parlor, Mrs. Taylor requested
Mrs. Zina D. H. Young to preside, and a
sort of “love feast” began by singing and
prayer, each one present speaking as she
felt prompted to do, by the good spirit that
prevailed. It was a very happy gathering
of a few congenial souls, whose desires and
aims in life are similar, and who thoroughly
enjoy these brief respites from worldly
care.
	ON Tuesday January 31st, Mrs. Zina D.
H. Young the venerable and respected
President of the Relief Society celebrated
the anniversary of her 72nd, birthday.
The party was given by her daughters at
the residence of Mrs. Phebe Young Beatie
and was quite as enjoyable, as it was pos-
sible to make the happy event. President
Wilford Woodruff and wife were present
and several members of the family of the
late President Brigham Young. Bishop
Tingey of the Seventeenth Ward and Bishop
Whituey and wife of the Eighteenth Ward
were among the assembled guests. Miss
Maude May Babcock gave some of her
characteristic recitals and quite astonished
as well as delighted the company by her
artistic character representations, and won-
derful changes of voice and manner. Her
originality in rendering the most difficult
compositions is a continual surprise and de-
light to those who listen. She has what
the poets would call a “witching voice”
and the perfect cultivation of tones and
modulation is surpassingly sweet and musi-
cal. Of the refreshments on this auspicious

[column 2]
occasion we need only say that everything
was excellent, and all enjoyed the feast of
good things as well as “the feast of reason
and the flow of soul,” also the enchanting
music, and for our dear “Aunt Zina,” as
she is lovingly designated may she live un-
til her soul is satisfied, and always be as
greatly honored and beloved in Israel as she
is at the present time.
	ON Tuesday January 24th, an anniver-
sary party was given by Mrs. Amelia F.
Young widow of the late President Brig-
ham Young, at her residence on S. Temple,
1st West Sts. About forty of her friends
gentlemen and ladies assembled by invitation
to honor the day, being the anniversary of
her marriage thirty years before, it seemed
a fitting time to commemorate, and as Mrs.
Young had been some time abroad and had
recently opened her house, it was quite
pleasant to call together a few of those who
were formerly in the habit of visiting her
in the more “palmy days.” Mrs. Young
had been accustomed to entertain on a
large scale in the late President’s lifetime,
and knows exactly how to manage such
affairs. It is needless to say she is a fine
hostess the fact is well established. On
this particular occasion, there were present
of the Apostles John Henry Smith, Heber
J. Grant, Abraham H. Cannon and Presi-
dent Angus M. Cannon, with other honor-
able gentlemen and quite a number of
distinguished ladies, too many to mention
separately. The evening passed off delight-
fully, with greetings of old friends, brilliant
conversation and exquisite instrumental
music by Mrs. Young’s niece Miss Folsom.
The refreshments were delicious and
daintily served and the guests were so
charmed that time for parting came all to
soon, ere they were aware of the lateness of
the hour. The one drawback to the en-
joyment was the indisposition of Mrs.
Young’s father, Bro. Folsom, who was not
well enough to attend the party, that evening.
Mrs. Young has, since her return home,
devoted much tmie to the interests of the
World’s Fair exhibit for Utah and is a
very efficient worker in the Salt Lake
County Board.


THE NATIONAL COUNCIL. 

	THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN OF
THE UNITED STATES,by its approval of the
address of its first President, Miss Frances
E. Willard, delivered at a public session of
the Council in Washington in 1891, stands
committed to carry out, as far as they are
practicable, the suggestions of work and
organization set forth in that address.
	Among other things it is hoped to estab-
lish in the most important cities of the
country, and finally in all the places where
women have developed interest in the pub-
lic welfare, Local Councils of Women, the
organization of which being in harmony
with the general plan of the National Coun-
cil will, in the end, entitle them to send
representatives to the sessions of the Nation-
al Council and form a sort of a Lower House
while the direct representatives of ideas
nationally organized will form an Upper
House in the National Council.
	The advantages to be gained by local
organizations joining hands to form Local
Councils are the same as the advantages to
be gained by the national organizations
joining to form a National Council; namely
the multiplication of the moral forces of the
place for the advancement of causes of


such a general interest, as to command the
favorable consideration of women engaged
in different lines of work.
	Already Minneapolis, Minn., Providence,
R. I., and Indianapolis, Ind., have Local
Councils of Women which include the most
important local organizations of women in
those cities. In Portland, Maine, this
month will see the completion of the organi-
zation of a Local Council, and initiatory
steps toward forming these Councils have
already been taken in Memphis, Tenn., and
Detroit, Mich.
	In pursuance of this plan, the National
Council has printed a typical constitution
for Local Councils which, with a brief his-
tory of the formation of the Local Council
of women of Indianapolis, may be had up-
on application to the undersigned.
			RACHEL FOSTER AVERY.
Cor. Sec. National Council of Women.


LOAN EXHIBIT.

[WOMAN'S DEPARTMENT WORLD'S FAIR.]
	IT is very desirable that all persons pos-
sessing rare and beautiful articles, of what-
ever description, should allow them to be
displayed in the Utah building at the com-
ing World’s Fair. In order that these may
be collected, properly classified and safely
transported, Territorial and county commit-
tees have been organized for the collection
of a private loan exhibit. This is to con-
sist of all kinds of useful, ornamental,
antique, curious, artistic and historical ob-
jects, whether made in this Territory or
elsewhere—such as rare vases, bric-a-brac,
embroideries and laces (ancient and modern),
objects of personal adornment, furniture,
carvings, curtains, rugs, and in fact, any-
thing which will add to the beauty or inter-
est of our own building.
	These committees are now ready for
work and respectfully ask the co-operation
of the public in their labors. There is
much to be done, and the work will be
greatly hastened if all persons possessing
articles which they are willing should be
displayed will send them in to the commit-
tees at once.
	All exhibits must be handed in before the
1st, of March, and will be subject to in-
spection by committees appointed for that
purpose and approved or selected by them.
All accepted exhibits will be taken to
Chicago and returned, free of charge, to
the exhibitor.
	All exhibits for Salt Lake City and
county should be sent to Mrs. George D.
Pyper, 123 Third Street, chairman of the
county committee. Exhibits of outlying,
counties should be sent to Mrs. Wm. Groes-
beck, chairman of the Territorial committee,
27 E. Fourth South street.


IN A FOREIGN LAND.

		FAGOLII, UPOLU, SAMOA.
[To the members of the Y. L. M. I. A.,
	of the Eighth Ward Salt Lake City.]
MY DEAR YOUNG SISTERS:—
	YOU have no doubt heard ere this, some-
thing of this far away land and would be
pleased to hear even more.
	I often think of you, and of the good
times we have had in our mutual improve-
ment meetings, and I can realize now, a
great deal more than I could then, the bene-
fits derived from attending to onr little
meetings, and endeavoring to perform our


[Column 1]
﻿part of the “work” in connection with the
rest of the daughters of Zion. When I
lived in your ward, and mingled with you
in all kinds of meetings and amusements, I
little thought that I would ever live among
this dark skinned people in this distant land,
but, the fact that such is the case, is another
evidence to us that God reigns, that his
Priesthood is upon the earth, and that we
as his children do not know what is in store
for us.
	I wish you could just “dropin” on us
some beautiful morning and take a peep at
our little island home and its surroundings,
as it would, no doubt, interest you very,
very much.
	Our little house is situated only a few
rods from the beach, and when the “tide is
in” our sea bathing is simply grand, and, as
you can readily imagine, we enjoy it im-
mensely.
	As I am writing this morning, (for it is
only 9 a. m.) it is raining heavily and has
been all night, and, it is so dark, we are
compelled to have our lamp lighted; it does
not know how to rain in the land of Zion,
compared to the way it rains here. It hard-
ly seems possible that in dear Utah’s vales
everything is cold and freezing, and that you
are all clad in warm winter clothing and are
fain to spend your evenings indoors by the
warm fire-side, while we who are here can
go out on the plantation for a moonlight
stroll, and that too, without even the sem-
blance of a wrap, and we even carry our
fan in our hand, at times, and fan ourselves
as we walk slowly on; our evening walks
are taken oftener I believe for the purpose
of speaking to each other of home and loved
ones, than for any other reason. Our
thermometer registers from 80 to 90 de-
grees on an average, but very, very often
goes over 100.
	The natives here are a strong healthy,
race of people, and are very kind and
hospitable. Those of them who have al-
ready accepted the Gospel, as well as a
few who are favorably impressed, seem to
take pure delight in providing for the wants
of the Elders. Their food, some of which
is not at all inviting to say the least, proves
very nutritious to the brethren, who are
compelled to live entirely on native food
while out with the natives; they live with
the natives all the time, save when they
come to the Mission House, here at Fagolii,
for their mail, which arrives once a month.
	On the morning of Saturday Dec. 24th,
1892 we were looking anxiously out, over
the “deep blue sea” in the hope of seeing
the Mail Steamer you see, we were
anxious to receive our mail that day, as it
was Christmas Eve, and the good ship
“Monowai” was to be our “Santa Claus.”
We waited and watched until 10 a. m.,
without any sign of the steamer, and then,
(as provisions had to be purchased from
Apia, some three miles distant) the brethren
prepared the boat, and started out; when
they had been gone but a little while, Sis-
ter Stevens and I caught sight of the smoke
of the Steamer, and called to Bro. Mc.
Cune, (who had been left here to keep us
company,) to come and see, and he too
decided that it was indeed the steamer; of
course that meant that our letters from
home were nearly here, and that our breth-
ren would bring them home with them
when they came from Apia. We at once
proceeded to decorate the house, or parlor,
for “Xmas,” The leaves and grasses here,
suitable for such a purpose, are numerous
and varied, and some, of them are very

[Column 2]
beautiful. We had small branches with the
ripe fruit hanging from them, also some
with the green fruit peeping from among
the leaves, not only these, but we had some
with the lovely white and pink blossoms
in full bloom, and, strange as it may seem,
the ripe and green fruit, as did the blossoms
also, come from one tree. We hung them
all around the room, in every conceivable
shape and place and put “Merry Xmas.”
over the door; we then hung some extra
large leaves from the centre of the roof over
the hanging lamp, (I won’t describe it)
forming an umbrella, or I believe it was
more of a bell in shape, and when we had
thrown some bright ribbons, (which had
been brought from home) carelessly over
the top, our center piece was complete.
	Some of the natives came and looked in
at the door, and when they saw that we
were trying to beautify our home for Christ-
mas they went off, but soon returned with
large bouquets of lovely flowers, numbering
nine in all, which we placed on our centre
table and then, when it was set in place,
under the hanging lamp and “bell” our
little parlor presented a sight that was in-
deed pleasing to the eye.
	When the brethren returned from Apia,
they expressed their appreciation of our
labors, by uttering words of praise and ad-
miration for the appearance of our home.
We hastened to read our mail and as we all
received good news from our loved ones at
home, we were as “happy as could be” for
a Christmas Eve so far from parents, broth-
ers and sisters, and the associations of
relatives and friends. Some Elders who
were on their way to New Zealand brought
us a large valise filled with some of the
bounties of life, in the shape of—plum-pud-
ding, Christmas cake, honey, tomato pre-
serves, pickled onions and candy; this of
course added to the humble “bill of fare”
which had been decided upon for Xmas.
day. Mr. Hellesoe, the baker from whom
we purchase all our bread, (when we have
any,) also sent us two lovely cakes, so we
began to feel that we were going to have a
“feast of fat things.”
	On Sunday morning (Christmas Day) we
sang and prayed in native; we held our two
native meetings, and then in the evening
we held a meeting in English. At this
meeting we sang:
	Tho’ deep’ning trials throng your way
	Press on, press on! Ye Saints of God,
and after prayer by Prest. Browning, ye
sang:
	“Glorious things are sung of Zion.”
We each bore our testimony, and closed by
singing:
	“The Spirit of God like a fire is burning.”
	We had a good time, and the Spirit
of God was in our midst.
	Monday Dec. 26th, 1892. This, of course
is the day we celebrate. We sang: “I
know that my Redeemer lives,” and after
prayers and breakfast were over, we at once
began to prepare for dinner. Prest. Brown-
ing had invited a few of the natives over to
eat “Christmas dinner” with us, and we
were expecting a good time. There is no
use of giving the preliminaries here, but
when dinner was announced, our tables
were laden with the following “goodies.”
Boiled chicken with soup (cooked in
American style.) Chicken cooked in true
Samoan style viz:—minus the feathers only,
and they were not taken off any too well.
We also had plenty of native food in the
shape of “Kalo” and “Palusami.” We

[Column 3]
had Christmas cake, rice pudding, pickled
onions, Utah honey, tomato preserves,
bread, butter, and rain water. Our soup
and pudding were in new tin wash basins
(that being the only kind of pan obtainable
here.)
	Our dusky guests were dressed up nicely
in light wrappers, that is, the female por-
tion of them, while the men present had
on their clean “lava-lava’s” (a piece of cloth
wrapped around the lower part of the
body.)
	It was amusing to see them eat their
chicken and pudding together, and then
their own cooked chicken with cake, and
so on. 
	I forgot to mention that we had green
corn and candy also, and water-melon too;
without saying anything of the lovely
bananas and pine apples we always have.
I know you’ll wish you were here, now
don’t you?
	The natives thought the tables were
lovely, with their white covers and the
shining dishes, and beautiful flowers on
them.
	We are never bothered here, with heating
water for dishes, as all of our dishes, as
well as our clothes, are washed in cold
water, (on account of the scarcity of
wood.)
	After dinner was over, “Tualele,” one of
the young ladies present, made the “Ava”
(native drink) and “Tetoai,” an old lady
who makes me think of our own “Aunt
Jane” passed it around. Our native sisters
insisted upon doing up the dishes, and they
hurridly washed them over and piled them
up in the wash-basin—not the pudding-pan,
but when they had dispersed to their homes
Sister S., and I were glad to embrace the
opportunity we had of washing the dishes
in our own style before putting them in the
cupboard.
	In the evening, after the natives had re-
turned and we had prayers and sang:
“We’ll sing the songs of Zion, tho’ now in
distant land,” the following programme
was rendered.
	Music by the band (Elders Mc Cune and
Hilton with harmonicas.) Recitation—
“Whistling in Heaven” by Sister Hilton,
Song— “Someday I’ll wander back again”
Prest. Browning. Song—“Samau,” and
the natives present. Music—by the band.
Song—“Last Night”—Elder H. L. Bassett.
Reading—"The Bob-o-link—Sister Stevens.
Song—“That is Love”—Elder C. E. Sum-
merhays. Song—by the natives. Reading
by Elder G. E. Abel. Song “Ella Rea”—
Elder L. A. Bailey. Music by the band.
Comic song—R. M. Stevens.
	After passing candy to the natives, Prest.
B—told them that it would be good for
them to go and after bidding “tofa” to
each other we were once more able to say
all we had to say in English. We had
lemonade and cake, and after “chatting”
and eating candy for a while, we retired
feeling that the pleasures of a Christmas on
Samoa far exceeded our expectations and
that we were in very deed blessed of the
Lord.
	I will have to close for this time as baby
is crying and, I have written part of this
with him on my lap already. I will per-
haps write again and tell you about the rats,
lizards, bugs etc, we see over here, and of
a great many more things that might be
interesting and amusing to you.
	The work of the Lord is progressing
nicely in this part of the world, and we are
living in hopes of having a great many


more embrace the Gospel, before the judg-
ments of God are poured out upon the
nations of the earth.
	Girls, appreciate your Mountain home.
Appreciate your dear, good parents, and
your peaceful surroundings, and last, but
not least, appreciate and take advantage of
the privilege you have of learning of the
ways of God.
	With kind love, and a “Happy New
Year” to all, in which Bro. Hllton joins, I
remain your sister in the Gospel of peace—
			SARAH MCMURRIN HILTON.
Dec. 29th, 1892.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


U. W. P. CLUB.
	THE monthly session of the club convened
at the WOMAN'S EXPONENT parlors Jan.
31st, 1893 at the usual hour.  Vice Prest.
Phebe C. Young presiding.  The usual
preliminary business having been disposed
of the following programme was rendered.
First an interesting and instructive prose
article on “the important events of the close
of 1892,” written and read by C. C. R.
Wells.  Second, a descriptive poem, “The
Old Family Bible,” L. S. Dickinson. Mary
A. Freeze then read “A Reverie” from the
pen of Lillie T. Freeze.  Gladys Wood-
mansee favored the company with instru-
mental music, followed by the reading of a
letter from Ellis R. Shipp M. D. descrip-
tive of her college life and pleasures, etc.
written in her usually easy and pleasing
manner.
	Lula G. Richards contributed a poem en-
titled “Wheat” which she read to the
club.
	The meeting was then thrown open for
discussion on various topics.
	The following committee was then voted
for, to asertain whether the suggestion of
N.V. Davis would be practicable, a native
stone in a setting of gold, so as to allow
space for the raised letters U. W. P. C.,
and to obtain particulars regarding the cost
etc. of the same.  Committee Ruth M. Fox,
L. S. Dickinson, N. V. Davis and L. G.
Richards, moved that each member con-
sider an appropriate motto for the club, and
come prepared to report on the same at the
February meeting.
	Moved that each member who does not
consider the motto, and come prepared to
report on the same at the next meeting,
shall be subject to a fine of twenty five
cents.  Both motions were seconded, put
to the house and unanimously carried.
	L. S. Dickinson extended an invitation
to the club to accept of her hospitalities on
St. Valentine’s Eve, Feb. 13th, which invi-
tation was duly acknowledged and accepted.
The following programme for Feb. 28th,
was then read.
	Roll call to be responded to with senti-
ments from the writings of Ella Wheeler
Wilcox.  An article from Augusta J.
Crocheron.  Ella Hyde, selected article.
May Preston, song.  M. A. B. Freeze,
“Women in Journalism.” Josephine
Spencer, Character of short stories in cur-
rent Magazines.  M. A. Y. Greenhalgh,
original article.  Benediction was pro-
nounced.
	Refreshments were then served and the
usual pleasant chat and social enjoyment
followed until the warning finger of time
bade the club disperse.
	Critic, Miss N. V. Davis.  Mrs. Ella
Hyde and Miss May Preston were voted
members of the club.
		GLADYS WOODMANSEE Rec. Sec.


R. S. REPORT.

		SNOWFLAKE.
Editor WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	THE Relief Society Conference of the
Snowflake Stake was held at Snowflake
Nov. 26th, 1892 President Emma S. Smith
presiding.
	After the usual opening exercises Prest.
Emma S. Smith addressed the conference,
felt thankful that conference time had rolled
around again. Spoke at some length on the
principle of faith and said “as it is a gift
from Heaven it should be carefully culti-
vated.” Urged the mothers to be more dil-
igent in attending to their duties, especially
in regard to their children, and hoped we
would always be found strengthening the
right side.
	Coun. Sarah Driggs made remarks.
Spoke of our duties in looking after the
poor, but felt as Bro. Kimball used to say,
that the better way is to provide labor and
pay them for it. Encouraged parents to
properly care for their children and see that
they behave well in company.
	Sister Jemina W. Smith bore testimony
to the truth of this work and said “if we are
humble and prayerful our trials will be
over-ruled for our good.”
	Sister Ellen Sainsbury reported the society
of Tuba City. They are striving to live as
the Gospel requires. Had never investi-
gated any other religion for she had felt
perfectly satisfied with our own.
	Sister Lilywhite reported the society of
Woodruff, meetings were well attended, the
testimony meetings in particular, and all
were trying to do right. Exhorted the
parents to attend the Sabbath Schools and
Primaries and keep a watchful care over
their little ones.
	Sister Ann Brewer gave a brief report of
the Pinedale society and said if we never
shrink a duty after a while we will become
like Nephi of old, believing we can do all
tilings we are required to do, and our child-
ren cannot fail to imbibe the same faith.
	The societies of Showlow and Snowflake
were reported by Sisters Mc’Niel and Mary
J. West.
	Sister Celia Hunt felt thankful to meet
with us after an absence of something over
eight years. While she had been away the
Lord had blessed her abundantly and she
could testify that He will always be a father
to the fatherless.
	Prest. Lorenzo H. Hatch then addressed
the conference. Was gratified with the re-
marks of the sisters. They certainly are
improving. It is impossible to please the
Lord and stand still. We expect tribulation
and are not disappointed in that respect.
Spoke upon the subject of faith and said
the sisters should be encouraged in their
labors.
	In the evening there was a meeting held
in the Society Hall, a neat brick building
recently erected by the sisters of Snowflake.
	Prest. Emma S. Smith said we now have
a room in the upper part of this house set
apart for the sisters to pray in. Our prayers
have been answered when we have met to
pray for the sick and we should be thankful
that we have this privilege.
	Spoke of the manner in which our young
people are led astray and gave some excel-
lent advice in regard to keeping them in the
right path.
	Sister Mary J. West compared our con-
dition to day with the time when our moth-
ers sat at the spinning wheel and cooked

[column two]
over the fire. Was glad to see the improve-
ment, for instead of doing so much un-
necessary work we can study and improve
our minds. The Lord wants his daughters
educated. Expressed her gratitude that
the Relief Society Hall was completed; it
has been built by the sisters of Snowflake
with five cent donations. Great praise is
due to Sister Driggs who has so faithfully
executed her duties, as business manager.
Also to Sister Flake and treasurer Sister
Fanny J. Willis.
	Remarks were also made by Coun. Sarah
Driggs, Ida H. Udall, Phebe Kartchner,
May H. Larson, Dena Willis, Ellen Sains-
bury and Annie Kartchner.
	The Holy Spirit was abundantly poured
out upon the speakers and the various sub-
jects touched upon were well calculated to
strengthen the faith and good desires of all
present.
		DELLA FISH, Stake Sec. R. S.


PHILLIPS BROOKS.

	So many sorrowful and affectionate tri-
butes will be paid to the memory of this
beloved pastor and prelate that it may al-
most seem superfluous for us to add to their
number.  But the roses and violets which
we bring to the funeral rites of our dear
ones are for ourselves, not for them, walk-
ing in the asphodel of heaven. It is our
debt which we recognize in these fond, sad
offerings.  Something we must bring to
express the love and sorrow which we feel.
	At the ceremonies of his interment on
Thursday, every beautiful device that
florist or friend could achieve combined to
make visible the glory of the perishable,
imaging with brief splendor the preciousness
of forms that are only lent to us for a time,
to be lost from sense and seen no more.
The flowers, too, image for us the love
which has its root deep in Nature, as they
have theirs in earth.  In the general ovation,
if we may use the word, which is offered
to the memory of the dead saint, the Jour-
nal has its own especial word to say.
	Phillips Brooks, like almost every eminent
philanthropist of the last forty years, was a
woman suffragist.  When the social un-
popularity of our own reform was at its
height, he did not hesitate to affix his name,
and the weight that went with it, to the
petition (one of many) which we were then
about to present to the Massachusetts
Legislature, asking for the political enfran-
chisement of women.  So may his petitions
be heard before the throne to which our
thoughts aspire in recalling him!  A little
later, when the voice of weeping is hushed,
it will be pleasant and profitable to recall
his good deeds in detail, and to dwell upon
his individual merits.  To-day, the wound
is too painful.  We can only bow to the
sudden bereavement, blessing the Providence
which gave, even for a short time, to the
world this true shepherd and Bishop of souls,
this apostle who could reconcile even the
differences of Christendom, as hard to
reconcile, perhaps, as any, through the
largeness of his Christ-like spirit, his faith
in all things divine, his charity for all things
human.			JULIA WARD HOWE.
Woman's Journal.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	DR. EMILY KEMPIN is the editor of a
new paper for women, just started in Zurich,
Switzerland,


MRS. MARY F. BARTLETT, of Cheyenne,
Wyoming, received in the Legislature seven
votes for U. S. Senator.
	A SUFFRAGE bill is pending in the Cali-
fornia Legislature, supported by petitions
with 15,000 signatures.
	THE National American Woman Suf-
frage Association will issue a printed re-
port of the proceedings of the convention
of 1893. This pamphlet will contain re-
port of National officers, reports of com-
mittees, plan of work for the year, im-
portant discussions,reports of state societies,
the amended constitutions &c.  Send 25
cents to National Headquarters 1324, I. St.
N. W. Wash. D. C. , and it will be sent to
you—Chairman Press. Com.  for 1892.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MRS. LUCY S. GRANT.

	RESOLUTIONS of respect to the memory of
Sister Lucy S. Grant who departed this life Jan.
3rd, 1893, adopted at a meeting of the Board of
Directors of the W. C. M. and M. Inst.
	Whereas, in the Providence of God our es-
teemed co-worker and beloved sister Lucy S.
Grant, has been released from her long suffering
and has gone to her much needed rest,—
	Whereas we have thereby lost an efficient
co-laborer and a generous patron,therefore be it—
	Resolved that we, the Board of Directors of the
W. C. M. and M. Inst. do hereby tender our
sympathy to the afflicted husband and the child-
ren, who are bereft of the presence and counsel
of a beloved wife and mother.
	Resolved that we deem it a just tribute to her
memory to say that she was beloved by each
member of the said Board and was up to the
time of her affliction a wise and able Counselor.
					GLADYS WOODMANSEE.
In behalf of the Pres. and Board.


ELLEN WALTERS WINDER.

	MRS. WINDER wife of Bishop John R. Winder
who died suddenly of heart failure at her home
in this City November 7th, at 4:30 p.m. 1892, was
born in Siverton, Devonshire, England, April 8th,
1822—and was married to John R. Winder in
London, Nov. 24th, 1845. Having embraced the
Everlasting Gospel they emigrated to America in
1853; at that time Mrs. Winder had twin baby
girls not three months old,and those were not the
days of swift transit either by sea, or by land.
This one fact demonstrates the faith and courage
Sister Winder possessed, and as she advanced in
years that same sublime faith grew stronger and
more steadfast still, as year after year witnessed
the fulfillment of those things for which she had
been looking forward.  She identified herself with
the Relief Society of the 14th ward in this City
where she resided, when it was organized, and
was an active worker in all the benevolent labors,
never weary in well-doing.  After her removal to
the 12th, Ward a few years since, she was chosen
secretary of that Relief Society and continued in
office to the time of her decease; and when death
came, she was engaged in cheerful conversation
upon matters pertaining to the duties of her of-
fice with Mrs. Julia Druce the President of the
Society.
	Sister Winder had been in delicate health for
some time, but was somewhat better and the
blow fell heavily indeed upon the family; she was
a model wife, mother and househeeper; her home
the place where she displayed those charming
attributes of character, that made it a paradise on
earth to those with whom she was thus associated;
her love of flowers constituted one of her chief
pleasures, and her plants were the admiration of
all who passed the house and the display in her
windows were a great attraction.
	Sister Winder was the mother of ten children,
five of whom are now living; she leaves also
twenty grand-children, who all loved her as
tenderly as her own. She was tender-hearted,
gentle, conscientious and forgiving, a woman of
many virtues and much goodness of heart, wo-


manly in every respect, yet brave and strong when
occasion called for action.
	“No single virtue we could most commend,
	Whether the wife, the mother, or the friend;
	For she was each in that supreme degree,
	That, as no one prevailed, so all was she.”
			MEMORI AL.
	ACCORDING to agreement at the last meeting o
the Twelfth Ward Relief Society, Dec. 1st, 1892,
the following resolutions of respect were made,
and at the succeeding meeting were unaninously
adopted.
	Whereas in view of the loss we have sustained
by the decease of our beloved Sister and Secre-
tary Ellen Walters Winder, and of the still heavier
loss sustained by those who were nearest and
dearest to her; therefore, be it—
	Resolved that it is but a just tribute to the
memory of the departed that in sorrowing over
her removal from our midst we mourn for one
who was always faithful and prompt in discharg-
ing her duties, even when laboring under heavy
physical disabilities; and, was in every way
worthy of our respect and love.
	Resolved, that we tenderly condole with the
family of our beloved sister in their hour of trial
and affliction, and share with them the hope of a
reunion in that better world to which we are all
hastening, and trust that God, “Who doeth all
things well,” will bless and comfort them.
	Resolved that a copy of this heartfelt testi-
monial of our sympathy and sorrow, be forwarded
to the family of our departed sister, and also be
placed upon our record.
			JULIA DRUCE, President.
			L. R. MIDGLEY, Ist Counselor.
			ELIZA D. HOOPER, 2nd Counselor.
			E. G. LYON, Treasurer.
			HANNAH BROOKS, Secretary.


OBITUARY.

	BY the death of Sister Mary A. J. Thomas,
which occured on the morning of the 10th, of
January, 1893, at her home in the First Ward, Salt
Lake City, many hearts are pained with the feel
ings of loneliness which come to mortals when
dear ones are taken away from them.
	Without doubt, Sister Mary’s friends were as
numerous as her acquaintances.  She possessed
the large, warm heart which is capable of find-
ing something to love, or pity in every one, and
the frank, generous, cordial disposition which
draws all hearts to offer love in return.
	To her husband, Brother Charles J. Thomas,
and family, she was most affectionately and con-
scientiously devoted.
	Three children, the eldest not yet nine years old,
are left with their father and other relatives and
friends, to mourn the loss of one of the kindest
and most faithful of all the daughters of Eve; and
one baby girl was awaiting her mother in heaven.
	Sister Mary was born on the 27th, of February,
1853 in South Wales, where her honored parents
still reside, although having been members of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
from an early day.  In emigrating to Utah,
therefore Sister Mary left her home and parents
with many others who were near and dear to her,
for the Gospel’s sake.  During her life, she also
suffered many other trials and hardships, while
proving her fidelity to the cause of truth, all of
which were borne bravely and cheerfully, showing
the true heroism of a noble soul.
	The funeral took place at the First Ward Meet-
ing House, on the 12th, of January; and was in
all respects worthy of the respected woman in
whose honor it was held.
				L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


IN MEMORIAM.

	WITH profound sadness we record the death of
another of God’s noble women.  Sister Mary
Nagely Brandley, the beloved wife of Elder Theo-
dore Brandley.  She suffered intensely for three
weeks prior to her death, when death released
her on Dec. 29th, 1892.
	Sister Brandley was born March 11th, 1834 at
Altnau, Canton, Thurgau, Switzerland.  Em-
braced the gospel in her native land, and emi-
grated to Utah in 1872.  During that same year
was married to Elder Theodore Brandley, at Salt
Lake City.  She was a faithful Saint in the full
sense of the term; no sacrifice was too great for
her to make for the Gospel’s sake.
	During the twenty years of her married life,
her husband spent nine years of that time in the
missionary field, and she, with her characteristic
faith, assumed the burden of caring for their
children alone, never murmuring at his absence


nor the many trials and hardships incidental to
missionary’s wives.
	Through her last illness, she manifested un-
bounded faith in the ordinances of the Gospel.
Surrounded by her husband and children, by her
only brother, and hosts of friends, her every wis-
was anticipated, everything that love and sym-
pathy could do was lavished upon her but
prayers and tears were unavailing to prolong her
earthly career.  God, in his infinite wisdom had
called her home, and the tenderness and devotion
that had characterized the union of Brother and
Sister Brandley, ma de the parting ordeal all the
more severe for the heart-broken husband, who
scarcely left her bedside during her entire illness.
	Sister Brandley’s nature was purely domestic;
home was the place she adorned and no truer
wife and mother ever lived.  Her charity was
without stint, or ostentation, and the poor prayed
blessings upon her head.
	She was the mother of eight children, six of
whom are left to mourn their loss.
	The funeral services were held in the Meeting
House on New Year’s day; the large concourse
of sympathizing friends evidencing the respect
and esteem in which the family were held.
	May the Holy Spirit be with the bereaved ones,
to comfort them in their hour of trial, and prepare
them for the joyful reunion awaiting them.
	IDA NAGELY.
RICHFIELD UTAH.


DOCTOR MATTIE HUGHES CANNON,
	Office: II South, First West Street.
Office practice for Diseases of Women from 2
until 4 p. m.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
Three doors west of Theatre.

MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p.m.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
	SALT LAKE CITY.

	The Leading Retail
Cash House,

R.K.THOMAS

	DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS CAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
he country promptly responded to.
DAVID JAMES, Box. 306. Salt Lake City.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 21.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15, 1893.			No. 16.


CONTENTS:
	In Rural England—A Story.  Utah Co. W. S. A.
—S. A. Graham W. S. A. South Bountiful—
Augusta Joyce Crocheron.  Woman's Suffrage
Endorsed. National Couucil of Women—Rachel
Foster Avery.  Acknowledgement.  Historical
and Heroic Deeds of Women—Susan G. Cooke.
Savonarola.  R. S.  Report.  Conference of
Charities.  Notes and News.  Knowledge—
M. E. K. In Memoriam—F.  W. Jackson.
Obituaries.
	EDITORIAL:—Liberty Bell 1893.  U.  W.  P.  C.
Valentine Party.  Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—Wheat—L.  L.  G.  Richards.  Our
Baby—Lula.  To Mother—Penn.  Poverty's
Pangs—Steve Sherlock.


WHEAT.

“Twheat, wheat!" sang a bird, one autumn
	morn,
As  I plucked for breakfast some ears of corn;
"Twheat, wheat, wheat, wheat!" and it danced
	with glee,
On the bending limb of an apple tree.
That's a happy song, little bird,' I said,
Your children, and mine, will be amply fed.’
"Th'wheat! ch, ch, ch, th'wheat!" chirked the
	chickens, too,
As from perches and barn-loft they clumsily 
	flew.
'Yes, yes, old rooster,' I answered back,
'You shall have your breakfast, and find no lack;
It's only fair that your family begs,
We give them grain, and they give us eggs.'
"Wheat! Wheat!"  all the farmers were calling
	that day,
As to grain fields and uplands they hurried away.
The reapers and threshers must labor with haste,
Lest the golden kernels should fall to waste;
And with brotherly kindness they lend and they
	borrow—
“I’ll help you to day, and you help me tomor-
	row.”
How Good! and how Great!  Who sendeth the
	rain,
And giveth the seed-time and harvest of grain
Fulfilling a promise, are blessings now pour'd, 
Till we're lacking of room for our grain to be
	stored:
“There’s a surplus,” 'tis said, “send it over the
	sea,
Where they make better clothing, and cheaper
	than we.”
But wait!  are they true, those statistics which
	tell,
That of grain, which to England’s sons we sell,
Much more than is used for bread, each-year,
Is made into whiskey and ale and beer?
And are we friends of humanity, then,
Who furnish the means of debauch to men?
Nay, He who supplieth abundance today,
Hath taught us a surer and nobler way;
To build, like Joseph, wise and discreet,
Strong granaries for our surplus wheat;
Storing it up for a time of want,
When famishing nations our shores will haunt.
Can we, blindly, these sacred duties shirk,
While men are among us, pleading for work? 
May we not give them our gran’ries to build,
With the staff of life have our bins well filled, 
That should floods, or drouth, spoil a crop of
	wheat,
Our children may still have bread to eat?
	L. L. G. RICHARDS.


IN RURAL ENGLAND.

			XXIX.
	LADY ANNA WALTON grew more un-
happy as the time flew by and Maitland
still remained so much away, not even his
mother could persuade him to give up out-
side gaieties and sports, though she sought
to influence him in every tender way. She
reminded him of his obligations and the 
solemn promises made at the altar but it
was of no avail, he could not be convinced
of his wrong doing. She appealed to his
love for Anna and his determination to
marry her in the face of opposition as hav-
ing been the cause of serious difficulty be-
tween his father and herself and closed an
eloquent appeal by saying, "My dear boy
are you going to bring more sorrow to my
already heavily burdened life, your father
would never cease to reproach me with
befriending your cause in the matter, upon
which you sought my interference and
which to me was a much greater trial than
you could possibly know—but let the past
suffice, and try to be a man worthy the po-
sition you hold as the only son and heir of
the Walton estates and title, instead of
pursuing a course which must eventually
bring ruin to all our hopes."
	Maitland’s reply was unsatisfactory and
childish, he was not going to be kept in
leading strings, he could not endure
woman’s tears and reproaches, he was 
looking forward to a position of more con-
sequence than to settle down at Walton
Hall to represent H. Shire and he
would be a good husband withal, besides,
said he what does Anna know about men
any way her father was an old tyrant and
lived abroad, a fast life, most likely, and
she can’t say I have ever been unkind."
	His mother felt remonstrating useless,
his father would be no use in advising and
she spoke to Mrs. Bland about the Doctor.
She knew he must have noticed how very
inattentive Maitland was to his wife, and
though the fact was humiliating, too much
depended upon it in the present case to
admit of delay. Already she had warned
her son by telling him Anna’s mother had
died after giving birth to her child, she
bitterly regretted having consented to his
living in London, her hope now lay in the
influence of Dr. Bland. Everything that
Lady Walton Sen. and her cousin Jane 
could devise to amuse and entertain the
young wife was carried into effect, and she
bore up wonderfully in outward demeanor
considering what she suffered inwardly.
Her elaborate infant wardrobe was a
gratification, much of it the artistic work of
her own dainty fingers that had all the
deftness and ingenuity of a French woman,
and she would sometimes speak to her
cousin of her future expectations, saying,
"When we have a little one it will surely
be a tie to bind Maitland to his home,"
though tears and sobs would often choke
her utterance.
	Finally the event transpired, one morning
when Maitland had been absent all night
and though messengers went in search of
him, he was not to be found at any of the

[column 2]
places he was known to frequent. He
came in just in time to hear the announce-
ment, of the birth of a son, and that Lady
Walton was alarmingly and dangerously ill.
	Shocked beyond all control and weak
from having been up all night the young
husband swooned in the ante-room and his
valet had to summon a physician.
	Dr. Bland could not leave his patient and
a strange physician was called in, Lady
Walton Sen. left the unconscious young
mother to come to her son’s couch, her
heart nearly breaking with grief that he 
should have been so indifferent as to absent
himself from home at such a time, and
mortified that he was so physically weak as
to succumb when his assistance, courage and
moral support was most needed. Poor
unfortunate fellow she thought to yield
thus to the seductive temptations of those
who care for naught but pleasure and riot,
who live for show and sensation, forgetful
that she herself was in some respects
answerable for the society and allurements
that had led him from the path of right and
perhaps into sin and wickedness. Maitland
soon recovered and when he was himself
again his mother informed him of his good
fortune that the boy was hearty and well
(a handsome child) and though Anna was
still weak and faint, and must have no ex-
citement, yet the danger was comparatively
over, but added, “you will have to change
your habits of life, for Anna’s life depends
upon the course you pursue, surely this
will be a lesson, supposing she had died and
you away, we knew not where, no one
could possibly ascertain your whereabouts
we tried in vain to find you.”
	Maitland was too much stricken to reply
and only begged to be allowed to see his
wife and child.” I will ask the Doctor when
you can be admitted, but you must promise
me beforehand that there shall not be a
scene, even if you are reproached by word
or look, otherwise I will not permit you to
go in for Mrs. Bland who has never left her
cousin for one moment during the night is
indignant at your conduct and well she
may be.” Maitland was too much morti-
fied to reply and he really loved his wife in
his own fashion, but the prize was now his
own and he held it lightly as many do that
which has been eagerly sought beforehand.
	For some weeks Maitland was attentive,
he seemed quite changed, his wife was
slowly recovering, and his mother had
special need of his assistance for the Doc-
tors prouounced his father's case hopeless;
in fact Lord Walton’s departure from life
was fast approaching. He was most of the
time wandering in his mind and would talk
much of the past, and of Sir Edward, and
when he was told the baby was to be
Christened insisted upon the boy being call-
ed after his maternal grandfather. Within
three months from the birth of Lady Anna's
child, the death and burial of Lord Henry
Walton had taken place, the house in Lon-
don was closed; and the widow, her son, 
his wife and boy installed at Walton Hall
in Herefordshire. Dr. and Mrs. Bland had
returned to their home near the old castle
of the Hilliards and things seemed to quiet


down once more; some anxiety was manifest
about the absent ones Mr. Harrison and
Clair, this was the only thing that disturbed
the evenness of the sweet spring time.
	In the settlement of the Walton estate all
had been most satisfactory, Anna's health
was improving daily and little Edward was
a very promising child.
	One evening when Dr. and Mrs. Bland
were at Walton Hall the conversation
turned upon the events that had transpired
since “Cousin Jane” had taken up her
residence at the Castle, and Mrs. Bland
ended by saying, “what will come next i
wonder, somehow it seems to me the quiet
we are having now only presages a storm,
some important change.” “Do not say
that,” all the party exclaimed at once,
"you are such a prophet."
	“Surely only good can come after the sor-
row that has been,” said Lady Walton,
“but perhaps it is my going away that is in
the wind, though I have not breathed it to
any one, I have fully determined to go to
Italy.” “You are not going to leave us so
soon with this gloom hanging over us from
the recent bereavement?” said the son ad-
dressing his mother.
	“Unless you decide to go with me I cer-
tainly shall, for my health is failing, the
strain upon me, with one shock after anoth-
er is telling and I want to regain my former
vigor and elasticity of spirits, and for years
I have longed to go, now my desire can be
gratified I am my own misstress,” and the
lady burst into tears in spite of her character-
istic self-possession.  And so they separated
for the night, with some misgivings about
the future, because of the sadness that per-
vaded the company when even a temporary
breaking up of the family circle was alluded
to.  Lady Walton had but few preparations
to make for her journey, and only a few
days following the conversation on the sub-
ject left for Italy taking with her a lady
friend as companion, one with whom she had
formery been intimate, a maid and an at-
tendant who had traveled much with his
master (Lord Walton) in foreign parts.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


UTAH CO. W. S. A.

	AT the Convention in Provo recently,
new officers were chosen for the W. S. A.
the coming year.
	Mrs. Patten announced to the ladies the
object of the meeting and Mrs. S. A.
Graham was nominated as temporary secre-
tary and the business was then proceeded
with.
	Mrs. M. John suggested that the officers
of last year be voted to hold the same
offices. Mrs. E. Bullock stated that she en-
dorsed the sentiments of Mrs. John. Mrs.
H. Horrocks moved that Mrs. J. H. Patten
be nominated as president for the coming
year. Mrs. Bullock put it before the meet-
ing for acceptance which was carried unani-
mously.
	Mrs. A. K. Smoot made some very good
suggestions in regard to suffrage, after
which President Patten then took the chair
and made some very good and interesting
remarks. It was suggested by the ladies
to give the president power to choose her
own vice-presidents and other officers.
	The President made the following choice:
Mrs. S. A. Graham, secretary, and Mrs. M.
Olson, assistant Mrs. J. B. Snyder, Mrs.
M.Wilkins and Mrs. E. McBride, vice-
presidents. Mrs. Doolan, Mrs. Devey,
Mrs. E. J. Bennett, Mrs. M. Horrocks,
Mrs. M. R. Beesley, Mrs. E. Ashworth,


Mrs. Harrison, Mrs. M. E. Nelson and
Mrs. D. Billings, executive committee.
	Mrs. Bullock read from an eastern paper,
and made some interesting remarks in favor
of suffrage.
	The meeting took a recess until 2 o’clock
and the members enjoyed the dinner that
was prepared in the vestry, after which the
executive committee reported that they had
chosen Mrs. E. J. Bennett, as chairman.
	The afternoon session commenced at 2
o’clock in the vestry of the old tabernacle.
Meeting was opened by singing, prayer by
Mrs. S. Cluff, and singing. Minutes of
last meeting were read and accepted, and
report of the local organization also read
and accepted. A financial report of the
last year was also read and approved; also
a monthly paper was read by the editor,
Mrs. M. A. Till. A vote of thanks was also
rendered her for the able way that she
edited the paper, and she was chosen as
editor for the coming year. The names of
the officers of the association were put be-
fore the meeting for acceptance. The presi-
dent then called Mrs. Ashworth to sing,
which she did in a very able manner.
	The speakers were Mrs. A. K. Smoot,
Mrs. M. Daniels, Mrs. L. McBride and Mrs.
R. Doolan. They gave lengthy and interest-
ing remarks. Meeting then adjourned for
one month. Benediction by Mrs. S. Good-
man.S. A. GRAHAM, Sec.


W. S. A. SOUTH BOUNTIFUL.

Editor WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	THE Woman’s Suffrage Association of
South Bountiful, was reorganized Feb. 13th
1893, as follows, for the coming year.
	Pres. Rose Ellen Hatch, First Vice
Pres. Sarah A. Howard, Second Vice Pres.
Maria T. Hatch, Third Vice Pres. Emma
Moss, Cor. Sec. Augusta Joyce Crocheron.
Sec. Jane A. Hatch, Treas. Sarah P. Moss,
Chairman Ex. Com. Phebe Hales,
Members Eveline Benson, Mary Ann Page,
Eliza Nelson, Sarah A. Atkinson.
	Auditors, Wm. Page, Samuel Howard.
	Pres. Lucy A. Clark and Mrs. Mary
Clark of Farmington were present, and
three new members joined. All present in
turn addressed the meeting, congratulating
the retiring officers upon the success of the
organization during the past year and
predicting an equal advance for the coming
one.
	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
	Cor. Sec’y.


WOMAN’S SUFFRAGE ENDORSED.

	“The following is an extract from the North
Western Live Slock Journal of Cheyenne of the
17th. inst. Yesterday afternoon Mr. Hurd of
Evanston, introduced the following joint resolu-
tion and it passed the house unanimously, as it
will most likely the senate to day. The Demo-
crat takes pleasure in concurring and seconding
a demand for the universal enfranchisement of
women.
	The resolution is as follows:”
	“Be it resolved by tbe second legislature
of the state of Wyoming.
	That the possession and exercise of suf-
frage by the women in Wyoming for the
past quarter of a century has wrought no
harm and has done great good in many
ways; that it has largely aided in banish-
ing crime, pauperism and vice from the
state, and that without any violent or op-
pressive legislation; that it has secured
peaceful and orderly elections, good govern-
ment and a remarkable degree of civiliza-


tion and public order, and we point with,
pride to the facts that after nearly twenty-
five years of woman suffrage not one
county in Wyoming has a poor house, that
our jails are almost empty, and crime, ex-
cept that committed by strangers in the
state, almost unknown, and as the result of
experience we urge every civilized com-
munity on earth to enfranchise its women
without delay.
	Resolved, that an authenticated copy of
these resolutions be forwarded by the gover-
nor of the state to the legislature of every
state and territory in this country, and to
every legislative body in the world; and
that we request the press throughout the
civilized world to call the attention of their
readers to these resolutions.”


NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN.

	THE members of the Board of general
officers of the National Council feel that
they have gained, in the new Vice-Presi-
dent of the organization, Mrs, Frances E.
Bagley of Detroit, an enthusiastic and able
fellow-worker. Mrs. Bagley has a broad
comprehension of the idea and scope of the
Council, and great faith in its future as well
as a deep sympathy with its general work.
	It is an advantage to the Council that, of
its five general officers who hold their
positions by election of the representatives
of the organizations which compose the
Council, none are themselves representatives
of any of the thirteen organizations in
membership in the Council. The Council
is at liberty to select its general officers
without regard to their official connection
with its members. This leaves its officers
free to devote their thoughts and energies
to the general good of the whole body and
they do not have to feel that in so doing
they are neglecting the interests of any one
organization, as would be the case were they
selected from among the Presidents and
Delegates of the Associations which make
up the National Council of Women of the
United States.
	RACHEL FOSTER AVERY,
	Cor. Sec. N. C. W.


ACKNOWLEDGEMENT.

	THE ladies of the Salt Lake County
World’s Fair board desire to express
through the papers their appreciation of
the very liberal contributions received for
the lunches, recently given to raise means
for the Utah exhibit at the Columbian ex-
position, from the following firms:
	Mr. Porter of the Templeton, Globe
Bakery, C. B. Durst, Wasatch Meat Market,
Wiscombe and Co., Webb and Feveryear,
Findley Brooks, W. L. Price and Co., Bar-
low and Thompson, Glenfield and Co.,
Kahn Bros., Hanson and Co. and clerks.
Z. C. M. I. Cunnington and Co., G. L.
Davis, Goldburg and Simon, Hepworth
and Sons, Eclipse, John McDonald, H.
Sherwood, Knight and Co., Deseret Meat
Market, Hobbs Creamery, W. S. Hender-
son, David James and Co. French Steam
and Hand Laundry.
	We also feel very grateful to Mr. Bechtol
for tendering us the use of the Walker
House cafe, and for numerous other cour-
tesies and to all the ladies who contributed
or rendered assistance. We take this op-
portunity of thanking the Deseret Evening
News, and Salt Lake Herald who have
always given the space in their papers the
ladies desired for World’s Fair work.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OUR BABY.
[Affectionately inscribed to Sister Minerva E.
	Knowlton, after the death of her infant son
	Afton.]
			Sing softly, low zephyrs,
				O’er newly made graves;
			While birds gently warble,
				And bright brooklet laves;
			Our baby, Sweet Afton,
				Might hear, should ye weep;
			Sing lullaby, softly—
				Disturb not his sleep!

			Ye starry-eyed Angels,
				Of mercy and love,
			Who watch little children
				In fair homes above;
			Ye see Father always—
				Our lone message bear;
			Remember, the baby,
				Sweet Afton is there.

			And Jesus, Thou solace
				Of mortals who weep,
			In thy holy service
				This mother’s heart keep;
			Her baby, Sweet Afton,
				Has gone from her sight;
			But Thy “Yoke is easy,”
				Thy “burden is light.”
									LULA.


TO MOTHER.

AH, yes, tis’ mother’s birthday!
	Can it be she’s growing old?
For three-score years have passed away
	Since she the light did first behold.

Yes, sixty years have swiftly flown,
	Since that holy angel of life and love,
Descended from the heavenly throne,
	With that precious soul from God above.

And yet her eyes remain as blue,
	And bright as on the fateful day,
And still her cheeks retain their hue,
	As modest rose in month of May.

Her hair has scarcely changed its shade,
	Ah, no, to me thou still art young,
As when beside thy knee I played,
	While baby songs to me were sung.

Though sorrow oft didst cloud thy sky,
	And thy heart strings were wrung with grief,
T’was God who thus thy faith did try,
	T’was he who also brought relief.

Thou did’st prove an obedient daughter,
	To those parents now on heaven’s shore,
Thou hast been a true companion,
	A noble, kind mother, yea, more;

Tongue or pen could never tell,
	The great love I now bear for thee,
As there flits across my mind
	The loving care thou has’t had o’er me.

To thee I owe my life my all
	Thou didst teach my heart and lips to pray,
I scarcely know thy priceless worth,
	Until from thee I am away.

May God protect and bless thee mother,
	Your sorrow and trouble be of the past,
Still may you many birthdays see,
	And each prove happier than the last.
								PENN.


POVERTY'S PANGS.

A MOTHER and two little children,
	Sat in a cabin one night,
They could scarcely see each other,
	For the stars were their only light.
The little ones dying from hunger,
	Had sat thus for many an hour,
While their poverty stricken father
	Had gone begging for fuel and flour.


They startle at every footstep,
	His return they anxiously wait,
At last they think they hear him,
	Coming through the gate.

They run to the door to meet him;
	But alas! They only find,
That the creaking of the garden gate,
	Was caused by the howling wind.

Broken hearted they lay down
	In their mother’s arms to rest,
Their little faces sick and pale,
	Against her heaving breast.

Through their little windows,
	Flashes of lightning leap,
But all is still in the cabin,
	Its inmates are asleep.

At last the lightning ceases,
	The rain comes down no more;
The father returns with coal and wood
	And raps at the cabin door.

No little ones came to greet him,
	As they have often done before,
He raps a little harder
	And then breaks in the door.

The fire is out, the room is cold,
	To his wife he calls in vain, 
But the only response that greets him,
	Is the dripping of the rain.

As he gropes his way in the darkness,
	O’er the floor with heavy tread,
He stumbles o’er their lifeless forms,
	And cries, “My God! they’re dead!”

He is now a raving maniac,
	And when asked the cause of his fate,
Relates the pitiful story
	Of the help that came too late.
					STEVE SHERLOCK.


HISTORICAL AND HEROIC DEEDS
			OF WOMEN.

	BOARD OF LADY MANAGERS, WORLD'S 
			COLUMBIAN COMMISSION.

				CHICAGO, February 1, 1893.
To the State Board and Committees:
	THE board of lady managers suggests
that the committees in each state classify
statistics in an approximately uniform man-
ner, and recommends the following
scheme.
	1. Statistics in regard to women in their
connection with the industries and profes-
sions. (This will include those in domestic 
service, factories, stores, schools, journal-
ism, independent business, etc.)
	2. Statistics in regard to the associated
efforts of women. (This will include liter-
ary clubs, religious societies, church
societies, reform associations, etc.)
	3. Statistics in regard to the work of
women in philanthropy, reform, and in
public service. (This will include homes,
asylums, reformatories, etc., founded by
women; prisons, etc., administered by wo-
men.)
	4. The status of women under the laws 
of the state. (This will include the politi-
cal status of women.)
	5. Concise statistical statement of no-
table things done by women. (This would
include deeds of heroism, bequests, scien-
tific or historical collections, unusual
positions held by appointment, achievement
etc.
	6. Population, male and female; crimi-
nal population, pauper population, defec-
tive population. (The last three give both
male and female.)
	These statistics should be in the form of


charts mounted in winged frames, in order
to be easily inspected, and also to occupy
as little space as possible.
	In addition to the charts already named,
it is recommended that a brief but compre-
hensive monograph accompany each state
exhibit of statistics, which would embody
in convenient form the salient points and
the conclusions legitimately deduced from
the statistics.
	Our foreign committees of women are
preparing statistics in a comprehensive and
extremely interesting manner. In the
more progressive countries of Europe this
line of work has attained a high degree of
perfection; their long experience enabling
them to adopt effective methods.
	It is hoped that every state and territory
in the United States will send to the board
of lady managers statistics that will not
only reflect credit upon the intelligence
and energy of American women, but will
elicit from these recorded facts some broad
principles, which will encourage women
everywhere, and also lead men to recognize
the importance of women as factors in in-
dustrial and social effort.
					SUSAN G. COOKE,
Secretary Board Lady Managers.


OLD FRIENDS MEET.

	MRS. M. ISABELLA HORNE gave a party
on the evening of February 3rd, in honor
of her daughter Mrs. Cornelia H. Clayton
who was here on a visit of a few weeks
from Provo, and anxious to meet her old
friends with whom she had been on such
intimate terms during her girlhood and
early married life previous to her removal
from this city. Mrs. C. H. Clayton was a
great favorite among the circle of her
acquaintances, both for her many attractive
social qualities and also for her musical
voice, and willingness to oblige and gratify
her friends; she has added to many an
entertainment by her sweet voice in song
and has been a faithful and diligent worker
in literary and other societies. Mrs. Horne’s
party was a very pleasant affair socially and
the refreshments were delicious and hand-
somely served.
	For many years Bro. and Sister Horne
have been in the habit of entertaining, in
fact their hospitality has passed into a
proverb, and one often hears the remark, the
good times we have had, the songs we sung
and the games we played at “the old home
of the Horne’s,” before the young folks
were married and went away.


MISS HALSTEAD, sister of Secretary
Noble’s Wife, has been engaged to write an
article on “The Social Life of Washington
from the Earliest Administration to the
Present day,” for a souvenir volume pre-
pared by women for the World’s Fair.
	IN the California Legislature, the bills to
give school and municipal suffrage to wo-
men have been favorably reported by the
committee.
	MRS. JACOB BRIGHT has an article, on
“The Laws Which Affect, Women’’ in the
February number of the Young Woman,
London, which also contains a paper on
“The Young Woman in Society,”' by
Frances Willard.
	IN New Mexico, a bill extending full suf-
frage to women has just passed the House
of Representatives.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS.	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office. No. 25 E., South Temple Street,
second gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter. 

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	FEBRUARY 15th, 1893.


[Column 1]
		LIBERTY BELL 1893.

	THE women of the United States have 
shown themselves somewhat ingenious as
well as patriotic in inventing ways and
methods of celebrating by means of practi-
cal exhibits for the Columbian Exposition. 
One of the latest suggestions is a proposed 
Liberty Bell, a duplicate of the Indepen-
dence Hall Bell in Philadelphia; this bell to
be made of historic material, so far as such
can be obtained. 
	A Circular of information issued in con-
nection with the work, says in addition to
the title "and as a Permanent Missionary
of Liberty and Peace."
	"Wm. O. McDowell, Chairman Organiz-
ing Committee, Human Freedom League, 
and Founder of the Societies of the Sons of
the American Revolution and of the 
Daughters of the American Revolution etc.
in writing to Miss Minnie F. Mickley, Re-
gent Liberty Bell Chapter, Daughters of 
the American Revolution; says what
could be more appropriate for mottoes and
texts than an exact duplicate of the Liberty
Bell, "Proclaim liberty throughout all the
land to all the inhabitants thereof," and 
"Glory to God in the highest, on earth
peace good will toward men;" this Bell he
thinks should be placed in the most ap-
propriate place in the coming Exposition at
Chicago and afterwards located either at
Liberty Island, Bunker Hill, or the Nation-
al Capital. He also thinks the Bell should
be taken from place to place whenever
there is a World's Exhibition; and adds
one is expected in Paris, France in 1900.
He also suggests in the same letter.
	"That the Board of Lady Managers at
Chicago shall be its custodian, and shall ar-
range for its location, and have charge of
its use, that if the example of America is
repeated and a Board of Lady Managers 
appointed in connection with following ex-
hibitions, that they shall be its custodians
while at the exhibition that they represent.
The use of the bell is to be as follows:
	With the rising of the sun it shall ring
out joyous peals of welcome. At sunset
it shall bid farewell to the closing day.
At 9 o'clock in the morning on the an-
niversaries of the following events and
those of a kindred character pertaining to
the world's progress toward liberty and
peace, the bell shall ring forth in tones of
celebration.
	July 4th, Declaration of Independence
1876. April 30th. in celebration of the
completion of our present form of govern-
ment in its present form by the inaugura-

[Column 2]
tion of George Washington in 1789 as the
first President of the United States. Sep-
tember 17th. the adoption of the Constitu-
tion by the Continental Congress 1787.
December 7th. ratification of the State of 
Delaware 1787 she being the first state to 
ratify the Constitution. The anniversary
of the dates of the different states or their
admission into the Union. April 30th an-
niversary of the Louisiana purchase 1803.
February 22nd, the acquiring of Florida
and the Spanish possessions in 1819.
	May 3rd. anniversary of the adoption of
a Constitutional form of government by
Poland in 1791, also the anniversary of the
adoption of a Republican form of govern-
ment by all the different nations of the
earth from date of the Swiss Federation, up
to that of Brazil including not only Repub-
lics, but governments constitutional where
the control of finances is left to representa-
tives elected by the people, it being as-
sumed that where this is the case the 
plutocratic or hereditary principle, in so far
as it remains in their government will soon
come to an end.
	October 21st. of each year anniversary
of the discovery of America by Columbus,
1492. September 3rd. anniversary of the 
signing of the treaty of peace between 
Great Britain and America 1783. Febru-
ary 6th. anniversary of the signing of the
treaty of recognition and assistance by
France in 1776. December 24th, signing
of the treaty in 1814, concluding the war
of 1812, that freed the commerce of the 
United States from the exactions of the
mother country and established our rights
upon the ocean.
	April 9th, the anniversary of the re-
establishment in 1865 of peace between the
States. May 8th, the signing of the 
agreement to arbitrate the Alabama Claim
in 1871. May 7th, the Behring Sea diffi-
culty 1892. January 1st, the Emancipa-
tion Proclamation in 1863. March 3rd,
the freeing of the serfs in Russia 1863.
November 4th, the anniversary of William
Penn's treaty of peace in 1682, with the
Indians.
	The anniversaries of events that, in the
opinion of the Lady Board of Managers, are
sufficiently noteworthy, or if no such Board
shall exist in the opinion of the General
Board of Managers, such historic days
marking the world's progress by evolution
or revolution toward the day when "the
sword shall be beaten into the ploughshare
and the spear into the pruning hook, and
men shall learn the art of war no more."
	"At 12 o'clock noon on the anniversaries
of the death of the 'creators of liberty,'
it shall toll giving the number of strokes
that shall announce their age at the time of 
their death."
	It has been estimated that the cost of the
bell will be $6.000 dollars; the delivery
and setting in the tower at Chicago ready
for use 500 dollars. All proper allowances
to be made for copper and tin and other
metals used at full market value.
	Committees have already been appointed
from several large societies, (national or-
ganizations) and also a Committee made up
of one lady suggested by the Governor of
each State and Territory in the Union and
by the President of each Republic in the
world. Also by a lady or gentleman sug-
gested by the executive of each one of the
great patriotic societies of the world, and
such other persons as by their life work
have shown themselves peculiarly fitted to
make a work like this successful, and to

[Column 3]
give to the bell thus created the largest in-
fluence for God, liberty, humanity and right.
	The question as to how the means shall
be obtained to secure this bell has been agi-
tated largely in many ways and after all it
is as yet perhaps somewhat uncertain what
can be gathered, or we have very few facts
to state as yet. It has been proposed to use
all sorts of metal relics, even cannon and to
fuse in the composition gold, silver, copper,
bronze and nickel. Perhaps in our next
issue we may be able to give more positive
information concerning this bell.
	The lady whom Gov. Thomas has ap-
pointed to look after this matter in Utah is
Mrs. W. S. McCornick and she will be
glad to hear from any one willing to con-
tribute money or articles of value to be
used in the work. All articles should be
accompanied with a brief history of the
relic whatever it may be and the name and
address of the donor. The women of this
Territory should be as zealous and as ener-
getic in this matter as those of any other
part of the Union, and should show their 
interest by their good works in agitating
the subject and getting contributions for-
warded to Mrs. McCornick as early as pos-
sible. Any one desiring further infor-
mation as to articles, money, etc. should
write direct to Mrs. McCornick's, residence
No. 1, Centre St. Salt Lake City.
	Penny contributions are acceptable, in
fact it is thought, by some, that penny
contributions from children, all over the
land, would alone be sufficient.


U. W. P. C. VALENTINE PARTY.

	MRS. L. S. DICKINSON entertained the
Utah Woman’s Press Club at her residence,
423, 2nd, South St., in this City on St.
Valentine’s Eve, February 13th. Her
pretty parlors were brilliantly lighted and
everything presented the appearance of
festivity. The lady is a graceful and
charming hostess, and the occasion will
long be remembered by those who were
present, as one of the most enjoyable, social
entertainments of the season.
	The ladies were each expected to tell a
tale or reminiscence of St. Valentine’s Day,
or something connected with the origin or
the cause of the celebration, and one or
two responded with incidents, legends, etc.
but for the most part the time was occu-
pied in admiring the various relics and
Indian articles in Mrs. Dickinson’s unique
collection of curios, which seemed to be
almost a private museum. Indeed the
evening was not half long enough to see
and hear of these interesting things. 
	Mrs. Bang who has lived in Arizona, and
Colorado gave some very entertaining ac-
counts of her varied experience in  these
historic places, where the ancient inhabi-
tants lived and flourished long ago, and of
the finding of old and queer specimens of
various sorts of things.
	Miss Burnham, recently from the San
Juan Valley in Utah and New Mexico told
the ladies of the mounds and cliff dwellings,
pottery, and of the habits, customs and
work of the present tribe of Indians in those
localities, particularly of the Navajo wo-
men and their very handsome blankets.
	In fact there was so much delightful
conversation that the hours flew, by all, too
swiftly and the guests were so absorbed in
the details of Indian life, and the long ago,
that it vas difficult to come down to the
present and common place topics.


Miss Nevada V. Davis recited in a very
pleasing style the humorous poem, 
"Zekiel's Courtship" the young lady has a
very clear, well modulated voice.  She
has a charming naivete style which few
possess and is always attractive.
	The refreshments were delicate, cakes,
candies and delicious coffee and the guests
were enthusiastic in their praises of the
unique entertainment.  When bidding
good night each one was presented with the
poem, given below tied with dainty ribbon,
in booklet form, as a souvenir of St. Valen-
tines's Eve. 1893.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FRIENDSHIP'S SONG.

THOUGH the scenes of my life change,
	And I wander afar from you,
For me, there will be no exchange
	Of the old friend, for the new.

﻿As memories of the olden time,
	Memories of friends tried and true,
Come to me as a merry chime,
	I will think, dear friend, of you.

I'll think of you, beside the stream
	Where we sat in that golden time,
When life was one sweet dream,
	With only threads of fancy to wind.

When the flowers were in bloom,
	And the birds sang all day long;
We sat in the twilight's gloom,
	And sang the same sweet, old song.

Sang of the days of long ago,
	Days in the deep, shadowy past,
When life was all of crimson aglow,
	And winter had no whitening blast.

To us, the ocean of time rolled on,
	And the waves of peace and joy,
Sang of friendship's glad song,
	Friendship, pure as gold, without alloy.
				MRS. LEWIS S. DICKINSON.
SALT LAKE CITY, 1893.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Conference of the Relief Society of
this Stake of Zion, will be held in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms in this
City, Friday March 17th, 1893.  This will
be an important time in view of the Temple
dedication and the work for the Columbian
Exposition and the several branches in the
County should be ably represented that
there may be a proper understanding of
what is expected.  There will be two meet-
ings, one at 10 a. m. and one at 2 p. m.
and no doubt much valuable instruction
will be given on matters of grave impor-
tance.
	THE evening of February 10th, Mrs.
Mary S. Horne gave a pleasant party at her
residence 532, S. West Temple in this City.
The evening was spent in social conver-
sation and was very enjoyable.  The re-
freshments were all of home cooking
cream biscuits steaming hot, and other
luxuries and nothing could have been more
delicious, or more daintily served than the
refreshments were at this five o'clock tea
by the young ladies of her family, Mrs.
William Horne, Mrs. George Horne and
Miss Nettie Horne. Among those present
were Mesdames Z.  D.  H.  Young, B.  W.
Smith, M.  Isabella Horne, Sarah Cooper,
M. W. Wilcox, E. S. Taylor, E. J. Steven-
son, Etta Ellerbeck, C. Rockwell, M. G.
Taylor, and others.  The writer was also
one of the guests and passed a most delight-
ful evening.  Such pleasant social meetings


bring together in sweet companionship
those that would othewise seldom meet in
these busy days.  Life is so full of work
that some of the workers have need of these
seasons of communion and rest.
	THE Pacific Coast Women's Press As-
sociation have established a monthly peri-
odical at San Francisco "The Bulletin,"
No. 1, Vol. 1, has been received.  It gives
the names of the members of the P. C. W.
P. A. and also Officers and Standing Com-
mittees of the Association.  It also contains
the address of the newly-elected President,
Emily Browne Powell. The editor is
Florence Percy Matheson a woman of
genuine, original, literary ability and
pleasing address.  Mrs. Matheson is the
daughter of Elizabeth Akers Allen with
whose songs and poems the public have
been familiar these many years.  Her col-
lection of poems is entitled, "High Top
Sweetin's."  We wish this new venture the
most perfect success, as an enterprise, and
also because of our appreciation of the ef-
forts of women in the newspaper work.
As a number of the P. C. W. P. A. it
should certainly have our hearty support
and best wishes for the increase of its cir-
culation.
	MISS GENEVIEVE LUCILE BROWN who
 resided here for some time and made many
friends while in this City, and whose pen
was always very busy while here writing
verses or other articles for papers and maga-
zines has assumed the assistant editorship
of the New California Magazine.  Doubt-
less our readers will be pleased to learn of
her good luck, especially the ladies of the
Utah Woman's Press Club, to which she
belongs and who miss her presence in the
meetings.


SAVONAROLA.

		THE FLORENTINE REFORMER. 
	SAVONAROLA, a name known throughout
the civilized world, the great reformer and
Churchman, who looms up above the men
of his time in the renowned city of
Florence; was born in Ferrara, September
23rd. 1452, at the court of the Duke: and
was the grandson of an eminent physician,
which profession his parents intended for
him. Girolamo Savonarola was one of
a large but not a wealthy family, the one
however, it is said, on whom his kindred
had built their hopes. His contemporary
and disciple Burlamacchi says, "he was
such a diligent student, that he worked
day and night and attained great proficiency
in the liberal arts," then termed the polite
arts. Learned in the philosophy of the
schools, educated in the best institutions
of that day and age, he held a high place
in the estimation of the world of letters and
he had before him wealth, honor and
celebrity, but he was more seriously and
thoughtfully inclined, disregarding the views,
customs and opinions of those who were the
leaders of society, as it existed in Florence
at that period.
	Italy was at that time the prey of petty
tyrants and wicked priests; Dukes and
Popes vieing with each other which could
live most lewdly, most lavishly and most
cruelly; in fact like wolves among a help-
less flock. The subtleties of logic, the
discussions of Platonic society, and gram-
matical disquisitions were nothing to his
young soul, yearning for virtue and truth,
and with intense sympathy for suffering
and wrong.

[Column 2]
	As soon as he felt, “the stirrings of
manhood, within him a righteous sorrow
and burning indignation took possession of
him.” This profound appreciation of the
evils around him made the young Savonaro-
la sad, silent and even melancholy; he kept
himself retired and solitary wandering
much in lonely places, in open fields and
along the banks of rivers; sometimes sing-
ing, sometimes weeping, and in such ways
giving vent to the overpowering emotions
that burdened his spirit.
	His prophetic utterances were wonderful,
but the only mode of expression in which
he found relief then was rough and impas-
sioned verse. These early poems show
his depth of disgust at the state of society,
when learning and philosophy and the arts
of Italy and especially of Florence were at
their very height; "he looked upon the
world as turned upside down," as will be
seen by the following extract from one of
those ardent descriptive poems:— 

*   *   *   *   * in wild confusion tost,
The very depths and essence lost,
	Of all good ways and every virtue bright,
	Nor shines one living light,
Nor one who of his vices feels the shame;
	Happy henceforth. he who by rapine lives,
	He who on blood of others swells and thrives
Who widows robs and from his childrens needs,
	Takes tribute and the poor to ruin drives;
Those souls shall now be thought most rare and
		good,
	Who most by fraud and force can gain,
	Who heaven and Christ disdain,
Whose thoughts on others harm forever brood."

	While these things were boiling in his
heart, “the city raged or reeled behind him,
its streets running blood, or running wine;
according to the turn of fortune;” the
doctors of philosophy and men eminent for
learning babbling of questions of dead
grammatic lore, and no man thinking of
truth, mercy and judgment and the remedies
for evil and sin.
	In the midst of this state of things a lit-
tle episode of happiness came into the boy's
life which cast such a magic and glamour
over him that temporarily he was blinded
to the evils around him; the gates of an
earthly paradise opened to him and veiled
the horrors of the world. He had become
enamored of a young Florentine girl, the
daughter of an exiled Strozzi, one of the
proudest and most powerful houses in
Florence; this beautifnl dream was of short
duration and his biographers state, “that
it soon ended in sorrowful rejection on the
ground that his famiiy was not sufficiently
exalted to mate with that of Strozzi.”
	This was the culminating point to sepa-
rate him from the world, and he determined
then to enter a cloister. His reasons glven
in a very touching letter written to his
father were, “great misery of the world,
iniquities of men, so that things have come
to such a pass that no one can be found
acting righteously. I could not endure the
enormous wickedness of the blinded people
of Italy; and the more so because I saw
everywhere virtue despised and vice hon-
ored; a greater sorrow I could not have in
this world.”
	About this period Savonarola relieved
his mind by writing an essay, “Disdain of
the World,” he left it with some books be-
hind the window sill when he went away
partly in explanation of his singular con-
duct. His mother, according to biogra-
phers seemed to have been inspirational and
one sees in Savonarola as in Joseph Smith
the spiritual endowment of the mother's
nature.
	Savonarola was not only prophetic and


'poetical but gifted in music also, revealing.
'the finer elements and emotions, that ever
characterize, those sensitive souls who feel
much more than it is is possible to express
in the language of the world, and are never
quite understood, even by those with whom
they are intimately associated.
	On St. George’s day of the great festa at
Ferrara, the 24th. of April while all the
family were away sharing the gay festivities,
a day made sweet by the glorious spring of
Italy, he stole out unnoticed and left his
father’s house forever to enter a convent;
this was in 1475 when he was 23 years of
age, at that time he had no desire to be
either, a priest or a monk, he was melan-
choly and sick of the world. He crossed
the sunny plain to Bologna and presented
himself at the Dominican Convent; he
asked only to be a lay brother, to ease his
Soul with simple work in the garden, or to
make rude garments for the monks, which
seemed better to him than the vain questions
and doctrines of Aristotle; but soon after
taking refuge in the cloister he was made
lecturer of the convent, and found himself
in the same round of philosophy; but there
he was forced to obey. It is said, “he
obeyed with docility,” a sign of grace in
him not in keeping with his emotional tem-
perament.
	This plunge into the Church to escape
from the world was calculated to convince
the young man more readily of the cor-
ruption of the Church and in a way sharp-
er and more heartfelt than before. Pope
Sixtus IV. and many inferior prelates
caused him to see with critical eyes, and to
lament the sins of the Church. “He sees
the true Church in a vision, and sees her
place invaded by a shameless creature, sees
her bosom torn with a thousand wounds,
hears enough to make the stones weep of
the usurpation of the harlot.” For years
after he had to be silent and to teach the
novices, and lecture upon philosophy as if
there was no greater evil in the world than
a  defective syllogism, but his discontent
smouldered until the hour of conflagration
came. He made the best of a lot now
apparently unalterable and besides his
teaching wrote essays and poems of value,
among them a “Compendium of
Philosophy” an epitome of all the writings
of the Stagyrite. He began an elaborate
study of Plato which he after wards destroy-
ed. Seven years of this sort of life was the
interval of waiting before his real mission
came to him. After his obscure life in the
convent, he came forth strengthened, for
the burden that lay upon him. Toiling
across the rugged Appenines after his re-
lease from the bondage of the cloister, he
went to Florence with hopeful anticipations;
when the city was under the sway of
Lorenzo de Medici; and was pleased, yea,
delighted with that fair country the purer
language, the higher civilization of the
people, and when he saw Florence in its
beauty, in the rich garden valleys with
flowers, and olive trees, everything beauti-
ful in nature and noble in art, a sense of
coming greatness seems to have been per-
mitted him in face of the terrible fate he
was yet to meet.
	Lorenzo reigned in the midst of a lettered
crowd of classic parasites and flatterers,
“writing poems which his courtiers praised
and surrounding himself with those eloquent
slaves that make a prince’s name more
famous than arms or victories. A man of
superb health and physical power who

[Column 2]
can give himself up to debauch all night,
without interfering with his power of
working all day, and whose mind is so
versatile that he can sack a town one
morning and discourse upon the beauties
of Plato the next, and weave joyous ballads
through both occupations gives his flatterers
reason when they applaud him. Such a
man was Lorenzo de Medici, the leader of
Florence.”
	“The few honorable and righteous men
there kept apart overwhelmed by the tide
which ran in favor of that leading citizen of
the far-famed city of Florence. Society
had never been more dissolute, more sel-
fish, or more depraved. In  fact the age of
Lorenzo looked largely forward to the wor-
ship of Pagan gods.”
	Cardinal Bambo bade his friends “beware
of reading St. Paul's Epistles, lest their
barbarous style should corrupt his taste.”
This intellectual age was full of debauchery,
cruelty and corruption, violating oaths,
betraying trusts, believing in nothing but
Greek manuscripts, coins and statues, car-
ing for nothing but pleasure.
	This eventful period of intellectual
development and growth in all that is
beautiful in art and heroic in science proves
the falsity of the assertion so often made
that education alone will elevate mankind.
it is not so—there must ever be a balance
of spiritual power to hold in check the pas-
sions and to counteract the influence of ex-
cesses in luxuries and pleasures.
	This condition of the city of Florence
was the awakening of Savonarola, the
hour had come when he could no longer be
silent.
	“Florence lying in bonds, smears of
blood upon her garments, and loathsome
songs upon her lips, and the church groan-
ing under the domination of one evil Pope,
looking forward to a worse monster still—
for the reign of the Borgias, culmination
of all evil, all wickedness was approaching.
Savonarola felt the burden of oppression
that lay upon the common people, a sense
of terror and punishment, the vengeance of
God against a world full of iniquity that
darkened the very air around him.”
	Savonarola was sent out to preach like
others in the towns and villages at pene-
tential seasons, and even then he could not
help uttering the prophecies that filled his
soul. Wherever he was allowed to preach
in Brescia, in San Geminiano the flood
poured forth; “and in spite of himself he
thundered from the pulpit a thousand woes
against the wicked with intense and alarm-
ing effect. When he endeavored to speak
in lettered Florence, no one took any trouble
to listen to the Lombard monk, whose ac-
cent was harsh, and his periods not daintily
formed, and who went against all the
unities. But San Geminiano, among the
hills, when it heard that same voice amid
the glooms of Lent, thought nothing of
the Lombard accent, and trembled at the
prophetic woe denounced against sin; and
in Brescia "the hearers grew pale and paler
still, years after when the preacher’s words
were verified.” He preached Woe! Woe!
but restoration and blessing if men would
repent and turn from their sins. “Not
preacher enough to please the Florentines,
who loved fine periods it is evident, how-
ever, that Florence had seized upon his af-
fections with all the vehemence of a passion,
he loved her as so many have done, he re-
linquished his own city and clave to his
new dwelling place she was his choice, the

[Column 3]
very queen of cities, the centre of the world,
a kind of Jerusalem typical and exalted;
and he cast in his lot and adopted her fate
and fortunes as his own.
	The crisis occurred when on one of' his
preaching tours he attended the Dominican
chapter at Reggio, and was seen and heard
by a genial and gentle courtier Giovanni
Picodella Mirandola one of Lorenzo’s most
affectionate flatterers and friends. This
court butterfly was the most learned and
accomplished that ever fluttered near a
prince but tender hearted and amiable and
the kindly insight of an unspoiled heart
He saw Savonarola among the other
Dominicans, noticed his remarkable face,
heard him speak with such power and force
that the whole audience were moved.
	Probably something more, some personal
contact, some touch of the unseen that
went to the heart of the young Pico, a
noble young gentleman, amid all his frippery
of courtier and virtuoso. He was so cap-
tivated by Savonarola, that he gave Lorenzo
no peace till he authoritatively recalled the
fiery preacher from his wanderings and
brought him back to Florence permanently.
Young Pico felt he could not live without
this newly discovered preacher and Lorenzo
unwittingly at his friend’s request, ordered
back to Florence the only man who dared
stand face to face with himself and tell him
he had done wrong. Savonarola came
back unwillingly; but by this time he had
learned to leaven his philosophy with the
teaching of the Bible which he loved and
which he had learned by heart, and used as
a text book, launching forth into a wider
sea of discussion as his mind expanded.
His popularity increased under the influence
of young Pico and larger audiences gather-
ed; men of Florence came one after another
to hear a man who spoke with authority
and had something to tell them,” the
greatest of all attractions to the ever curi-
ous soul of man. 
To be continued.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

		SANPETE STAKE.
	MINUTES of Quarterly Conference of
Sanpete R. S. held in Manti Dec. 10th,
1892.  Counselor Sarah Peterson presiding,
after opening exercises, of singing and
prayer, Sister Peterson addressed the
meeting.  Referred to the union existing
in regard to the World’s Fair Association
and also spoke of the picture which had
been decided upon as an exhibit from the
ladies of Sanpete.
	Sister Jacobs of Lehi referred to the
blessings she had received while laboring
in the Temple during the past week.  Spoke
in terms of praise of the President of the
Relief Society in Lehi and of her abiding
faith in the Gospel.  Also of the duties
and responsibilities of the Relief Society
in lightening the labors of the Bishops.
	Sister Peterson dwelt at some length up-
on the necessity of being liberal in giving,
and upon the duties of the sisters in visit-
ing the sick and comforting the afflicted,
the necessity of storing grain, and urged
the sisters to greater diligence in this mat-
ter.
	Sister Helena Madson of Gunnison
praised the energy and faithfulness of the
sisters of her Ward in Relief Society work
and also in the World’s Fair Association.
	Sister Wareham reported the sisters of
Manti North Ward as willing ones, ener-


getic in all their duties; esteemed it a privi-
lege that the women of Zion could be rep-
resented at the Columbian Exposition
through the World’s Fair Association, hoped
it would prove a grand success.
	Sister Dorius reported the sisters of
Ephraim, South Ward as being alive to their
duties.  Said the purposed World’s Fair
exhibit had met with universal approval.
	Sister Anderson reported the sisters of
Ephraim, North Ward, as being very dili-
gent in ministering to the wants of the poor
and afflicted.
	Sister Casto represented the South Ward
of Manti; the teachers were faithful and
diligent in performing their labors and the
poor were well provided for, bore testimony
to her abiding faith in the Gospel.
	Sister Minerva W. Snow was glad to
hear the report of their good works, and
was rejoiced to know that the poor were
provided for, felt that the sisters were blest
in their labors, because they were united
with the Priesthood.
	Prest. John B. Maiben bore testimony to
the good work accomplished by the sisters;
felt that all who were willing to respond to
the call would receive the blessing; thought
that the sisters of the Relief Society were
like Mary of old, and had chosen the bet-
ter part.
	Prest. Canute Peterson exhorted the sis-
ters to persevere in well doing that they
may receive the reward promised to the
faithful; was pleased with the reports from
the various Wards, thought they bore
strong testimony to the faithfulness and
diligence of the sisters.
	Sister Snow regretted the absence of
Sister Hyde, knew her to be a woman of
God; desired all to lift their hearts in pray-
er in her behalf.
	Conference adjourned until March, sing-
ing “Praise God from whom all blessings
flow.” Benediction by Bishop S. L.
Anderson.	L. A. Cox. Sec. Pro tem.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CONFERENCE OF CHARITIES.

	THE Territorial conference of charities
was called by Mrs. Cornelia Paddock, sec-
retary for Utah of the National Conference
of Charities and Corrections, to meet in the
East Side Baptist church at 10 o’clock.
	At 10:30 a. m. Mrs. Paddock called the
meeting to order, and acted in the capacity
of presiding officer. Prayer was offered by
the Rev. Mr. Adams, after which Mr. Staf-
ford read a circular, stating the aims and
methods of the national organization. Mrs.
Paddock then said that some months ago
the president of the national conference
informed her that at the meeting next sum-
mer she was expected to review the history
of charitable work in Utah for the past
twenty years. She felt that she was un-
able to do so with the information then in
her possession, so had called this Territorial
Conference, and had invited those engaged
in charitable work to report what had been
done. The efforts of the national organiz-
ation were directed to the prevention of
crimes as well as to relieving the poor.
	Miss Emma McCornick presented a re-
port of the Young Ladies’ Aid society—
the report being made by the founder of the
society, Mrs. Miriam Godbe Brooks—as fol-
lows:
	The Young Ladies’ Aid Society, and out-
growth of the Ladies’ General Aid Society,
was organized Oct. 5th, 1886, with a mem-
bership of twelve young girls. As a non-

[Column 2]
sectarian institution its object was to aid all
cases of distress which came under its no-
tice, irrespective of age, creed or nationality.
It appoints each year a special visiting com-
mittee, whose duty it is to visit the homes
of these people and learn as nearly as pos-
sible their true condition, that they may be
helped accordingly.
	Since its organization the society has ex-
pended over nine thousand dollars. This
amount has been mainly spent for rents,
food and coal, but does not include a large
amount of clothing which has been made,
solicited and distributed among the poor.
It has given assistance to two hundred and
forty families. Some of these have received
aid every month since its organization;
others have been helped as occasion re-
quired. It has endeavored to secure em-
ployment for all who are able to work, and
has been the means of rendering many self-
supporting. Those assisted regularly each
month are either invalids or aged and in-
firm. Its income is derived from regular
monthly subscriptions and occasional enter-
tainments given by its members.
	The society’s membership has been in-
creased and limited to fifteen active mem-
bers, besides its associate members. The
officers for 1892 and 1893 are: Emma Mc-
Cornick, president; Fanny Hanauer, vice
president; Bertha Hemstead, secretary, and
Blanche Mackintosh, treasurer.
	Mr. L. Hyams then submitted the fol-
lowing report of the work of the Ladies’
Hebrew Benevolent society of this city, for
the past year, together with a brief history
of the work since its organization.
	The receipts during the year 1892 were
$749.10; disbursements, $757.12; the num-
ber of persons assisted being twenty-eight,
the majority of whom were transients.
	The Ladies’ Hebrew Benevolent society
was organized January 4th, 1888, with a
charter membership of twenty-one. Its
present membership is fifty-three. Al-
though the organization is sectarian in its
membership, it has always extended a help-
ing hand to all persons applying for aid.
Its income is derived from monthly dues
and the proceeds of social entertainments.
	The total receipts from all sources for the
past five years were $3,093.50; the expendi-
tures for same period, $2,416.50; leaving the
sum of $677 in the treasury. The total
number of persons that has been assisted
since the organization is ninety-six.
	Dr. R. B. Pratt reported the Deseret
Hospital had been unable because of pro-
fessional calls to complete a written sketch
of the institution, but this would be hand-
ed in. The lady stated that the hospital
was founded May 12, 1882, as an aid to the
Relief Society and other organizations
among the Latter-day Saints in caring for
the sick and those suffering from injuries.
During the past nine years, attention had
been given at the hospital to an average of
one hundred patients per year. The institu-
tion had met with good success in the treat-
ment of those placed in its care, the death
rate being low for the class of cases brought
in. The expense is between $500 and $600
per month, about one half of which is for
charity patients. The institution is well
furnished, and is supported partly by
contributions from the Relief Society and
Young Ladies’ associations among the Lat-
ter Day Saints.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells reported the Relief
Society. She said the name of the organiz-
ation was now the National Woman’s

[Column 3]
Relief Society. It had existed from the
early days of the Mormon Church, though
during the emigration to Utah and settlement
here its work was carried on in a desultory
way. The people were then poor. As
settlements were established in the Terri-
tory branch societies were organized in
each ward. They had accomplished a
great work in providing for the poor nurs-
ing the sick, etc. At present the organiza-
tion is most complete, comprising in all
26,700 members. There is a general cen-
tral organization of seven members; then a
county or stake central board; and in each
ward a complete organization. These have
a corps of teachers, who visit the people
and report once a month. Thus the con-
dition and needs of every person in the
ward should be known. Most of the wo-
men of the Church are on its membership
roll. The organization owns real estate,
buildings etc. It also has a number of
granaries and a large quantity of wheat;
for its members have known the contingen-
cies which arise in this region to bring
scarcity of food, and have therefore pro-
vided for them. It is anticipated that the
society will ultimately be able to carry on
its work by means accumulated and &c;
though in the past it has called for some
from the public.
	Each branch society should contribute
$1 per month for the support of the Deseret
hospital. The society is educational as
well as benevolent, and has accomplished a
good work in qualifying its members for
the better performance of duties resting on
them. Mrs. Wells stated that her histori-
cal sketch of the society and its report for
1892 would be prepared and filed with Mrs.
Paddock.
	Father Scanlan, who was to have report
ed the Catholic charities, was not present,
and Prof. F. W. Metcalf, by request, read
an account of the circumstances which led
to the first establishment of a board of
supervision of state charities at Albany,
New York.
	Mrs. Jeannette Ferry, Mrs. McVicker,
and Mrs. S. Deamude each made a few
remarks on the charitable work being done
by women. Mrs. Deamude, who is re-
cently from Iowa, suggested that the insti-
tution of a Sunday school at the peniten-
tiary would be beneficial to the inmates.
The conference then took recess till the
afternoon.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	A NEW magazine, entitled Woman’s
Progress, is soon to be started in Phila-
delphia.
	FLORENCE NIGHTINGALE has started a
health crusade amongst the villages of
Buckingham, assisted by the County Coun-
cil Technical Instruction Committee.
	A BILL granting township suffrage to
women has been introduced in the Iillinois
Legislature.
	THE petition from Mrs. Armenia S. White
and others for municipal woman suffrage
has been presented in the New Hampshire
Legislature, and referred to the Judiciary
Committee.
	MISS EMILY C. WOODRUFF, of Little
Valley, N. Y., was ordained on Feb. 9th,
as pastor of the Congregational church of
that place. She has been conducting ser-
vices in the Little Valley church since the
death of her husband some months ago.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE wife of Renan will superintend the
publication of the remaining volumes of
his "Histoire du Peuple d' Israel." He
also committed to her care a portfolio of
notes dating back as far as 1845, which he
counted of special value.
	MRS. LYNDE CRAIG was recently admit-
ted to practice before the Supreme and other
courts of California. She is the second Wo-
man to be admitted to the bar of that State,
Mrs. Clara Foltz being the first. The
course of the Hastings Law School usually
occupies three years, but Mrs. Craig passed
her examination before the Supreme Cotirt
at the end of one and one-half years of
study. In a class of twenty-seven she
stood at the head of the sixteen who passed.
Mrs. Craig is an active member of the
Pacific Coast Woman's Press Association,
is the historian of the Law Club, historian
of the Revolution, and was for ten years a
teacher in the Girl's High School. Last
November she became the wife of Scipio
Craig, the editor of the Redlands Citro-
graph. At the time when Mrs. Craig pass-
ed her examination, Mr. Craig was attend-
ing the convention of the Editorial Associ-
ation as its president, and when he received
the news of her success, he immediately
telegraphed her the congratulations of all
the assembled editors.


KNOWLEDGE

	WE are told that knowledge is power. If
so, is it dangerous to have knowledge?
Most certainly if we have not wisdom to
control, this power, for it must be used in
wisdom to show its true value.
	St. Paul says, that knowledge puffeth
up, but charity edifieth.
	Here then is the danger of power with-
out wisdom to govern and control this
power: you will run too fast yes heedlessly, 
if you allow pride to lead you; because
pride will call your attention to see so many
things and also to see what impression you
are making upon others, that you grow
wild over your success before you have ac-
complished that which you undertake to do.
But wisdom will teach you to be careful and
be sure that you understand what to do and
how to do it, before being satisfied with the
undertaking.
	Here we can see the reason that a dull or
comparatively dull pupil will arrive at great-
er attainments than one whose intellect is
quick and bright, and all the time on the
alert, to catch some new idea of his sur-
roundings.
	He thinks oh, I can catch that idea at
any time when I give my attention to it,
but, now I am after something else,—In this
way he will accomplish very little because
he has too many irons in the fire, figuratively
speaking, and he is easily puffed up as St.
Paul once said, knowledge puffeth up, etc.
	I believe this is the reason so many
people are unsuccessful through life and al-
ways in want: because they have not wis-
dom to set a proper value upon time, or the
small amount of means that may give them
a start in life.

	But remember, if we use it by the in-
fluence of a wicked spirit it will prove a
curse instead of a blessing: as we some-
times see when a great fortune is left to a
spendthrift, how quickly he goes to ruin.
This is because wisdom is lacking. Well
did the wise king say, “With all thy get-
ting—get wisdom: for length of days is in


her right hand, and in her left riches and
honor.  Her ways are ways of pleasant-
ness and all her paths are peace." Proverbs
chapter 3. We need both. Your aged 
friend. M. E. K.


IN MEMORIAM.

	RESOLUTIONS of Respect on the death of
Sister Jane P. Oldham, wife of Bishop Samuel
Oldham who departed this life Dec 18th 1892,
at Paradise, Cache Co, Utah.
	Whereas: Our Father in heaven has called from
our midst Sister Oldham, who was always
punctual in the performance of her duties in our
society, and had by meekness of spirit won the
respect and love of all who associated with her;
we feel to express our love for her in these few
lines.
	Resolved—that as a sister associate and friend
we feel that words are inadequate to express the
high estimation in which we held her, and while
we feel the deepest sorrow at the loss we sustain
in being deprived of her society, we bow sub-
missively to the will of him who doeth all things 
well, and say, "Thy will O Lord not ours be 
done."
	Resolved, that we cherish her memory and 
follow in the example she set us, that of being a
faithful Latter-day Saint.
	Resolved, that we extend our heartfelt sym-
pathy to the bereaved husband, family and
relatives; that one copy of these resolutions be
presented to them, a copy be entered on the
minute book of our society, and they be printed
in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	 Elizabeth Remington, Elizabeth Bickmore,
Isabella Obrey, Elizabeth Shaw.
		Com in behalf of Relief Society.
Desr Sister, in sadness we mourn for you here;
Mortality's weak and can bear not the loss
Of those whom we love, and the trembling tear,
	Will lighten the load of our burdensome cross.
We weep still we knew by the pow'r of our faithr
	Your mission was ended; you'd gain'd you
		reward,
Which was something like this where the good
		Father saith
"Enter into thy rest and the joys of the Lord."
We weep for we know that behind you remains,
	A tender young flock, that had need of thy care,
To guide them along over Life's weary plains,
By thy fond mother love, and thy e'er faithful
		pray'r
We weep for we know that thy husband's kind
	heart
	Was rent with the sorrow that came when you
		died,
And bitter indeed was the summons to part,
	From the wife who so faithful had walked by
		his side.
But yet do we know in that bright day to come,
You'll all meet again where no sorrow or pain,
Can mar the sweet joys of your Heavenly home,
	Or death from your midst take the loved ones
again.   F. W. JACKSON.


OBITUARIES.

	DIED in Grantsville January 19th. 1893, of
Brights disease of the kidneys.  Louisa wife of
Andrew V. Millward and daughter of John and
Jane Eastham.  She was born December 6th.
1844 in Derby, Derbyshire England, baptized
when eight years old.  Married April 18th, 1862.
Emigrated to America April 23rd. in the same
year on board the John Y. Boyd.  Crossed the
Plains in James S. Brown's company, arrived in
Grantsville the same year, and resided in this
city until her death.  She was the mother of
twelve children, ten survive her; she was a strict
observer of the Word of Wisdom. A member
of the Ward choir and a teacher in the Relief
Society for many years. She was a good wife
and mother and above all, a Latter-day Saint.
Rest in peace.
	ROSE HAMMOND,President.
	M. A. HOUSE, Secretary.


DIED at West Porterville, Morgan Co. Nov. 9th.
1892, Mabel M. Stoddard, beloved daughter of
Oscar O. and Elizabeth Stoddard, born Dec. 2nd.
1878.
	Resolutions of respect, adopted by the West
Porterville, Primary Associations to the memory
of Mabel M. Stoddard.
	Whereas, in the Providence of our Heavenly 
Father we have been called to mourn the loss of


our beloved sister and friend, who having led a
life worthy of invitation has been called home:
	We desire to pay a tribute of respect to her
memory.
	Resolved, that we her associates and co-work-
ers, of the Primary Association do fondly cherish
her memory and while we sadly miss her: we
feel to bow in humble submission to the divine
will of Heaven.
	Resolved, that we condole with her bereaved
family in the loss of their dear one; not, however
without the consoling reflection that she has gone
in her purity and is worthy to come forth in the
first resurrection.
	Resolved, that these resolutions be entered
in the Primary record: also a copy be presented
to the parents of the deceased, and one be sent
to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.
	Dearest Mabel, we have loved you,
	We have loved you fond and true,
	And it fills our heart with sadness,
		That we have to part with you.
	But a crown of royal brightness,
		Waits to deck your honored brow,
	And a robe of purest whiteness,
		Waits your body to endow.
	Dearest sister we shall miss you
		We shall miss your presence here,
	But we hope again to meet you—
Farewell Mabel, farewell dear.
EMILY E. BROUGH, Prest. Primary Ass'n.


DOCTOR MATTIE HUGHES CANNON
Office: II South, First West Street.
Office practice for Diseases of Women from 2
			until 4 p.m.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
		Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY,  EQUI- 
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches. Millinery, latest
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
	No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
 Three doors west of Theatre.
         
	MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her residence, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p.m.
R.K.THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY

The Leading Retail
Cash House

R.K.THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORGE 
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
DAVID JAMES, Box. 306. Salt Lake City.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 21.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1, 1893.			NO. 17.


CONTENTS:
	Jewels—M. A. Y. Greenhalgh. World's Con-
gress of Women under the Auspicies of the Wo-
man's Branch of the World's Congress Auxiliary
—Rachel Foster Avery. A Birthday Surprise—
H. L. W.	U. W. P. Club—C. C. R. Wells. The
Land of Montezuma—Francesco. About the
World's Fair. Springville W. S. A.—A Subscrib-
er. R. S. Report—Laura Lewis. Savonarola.
A Golden Wedding—Clarissa Wilhelm. Altera-
tions of the Octoroon—Emily B. Spencer. Notes
and News; Items from St. George—Mollie Judd.
Obituaries.
	EDITORIAL:—President Woodruff's Birthday.
The Salt Lake Temple. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—To Josephine Spencer.—S. E. R.
Salt Lake—Lillie T. Freeze. Woman Arise—L.
L. Dalton. A Sister's Tribute—Aretta Young.


TO JOSEPHINE SPENCER.

I have read your "Green Street" o'er and o'er,
And backward turn times page once more;
To follow with you, while you trace,
Each well known spot in that dear place.

The Iron King there rules the day,
Swept trees and flowers from out his way,
For the home song, the engine's shriek,
Thus doth the mighty crush the weak.

I too have trod that same green street,
Often at morn and night to meet,
One dear to you and dear to me
Aurelia, still thy form I see.

On the green grass by the broken wall,
By the deep pond where the moon-beams fall,
Where oft we sat to tell of homes and fears,
Of joys and sorrows, in those bye gone years.

Again I stand by Jeddie's bed of pain,
And see his face and hear his voice again,
As on that ne'er to be forgotten day,
When his Spirit passed from earth away.

I see again the father kind and true,
Now little Johnny comes before my view,
Holding that father’s hand and may it guide his
	still,
And help him to be faithful to Jehovah's will.

I see the mother stricken in her grief,
When the dark Angel gathered in her sheaf,
Bearing them on unto the "Better Land,"
But leaving oh! so lone her household ba nd.

I see a little one dark eyed and shy,
Timid and silent still, where strangers nigh,
Josie we called her, now we read her name,
High among those of sweet poetic fame.

There comes a glad reunion by and bye,
Of hearts and homes and every kindred tie,
Oh! speed the day when we our loved ones meet,
And walk together in our God's Green Street.
							S. E. R.


SALT LAKE

                   	 A REVERIE.
AFAR in the distance I see thy waves,
	Gliding anear with their snowy crest,
Then creeping up to thy sandy shore,
	Silently pillow their heads on thy breast.

How gentle and soothing their musical swell,
	How I love the lull of each measured strain,
Sweeping along with enchanting grace,
	Singing the while a soft refrain.


Nor am I the only lover I ween,
	Admiring these circles one by one,
For the fleecy clouds are hovering near,
	And their shining heads are kissed by the sun.

And the peak of that lofty mountain,
	In the strength of its towering pride,
That mystic sentinel, tried and true,
	Would claim thee his charming bride.

Through the morning mist a rainbow deigned,
	To bend o’er thee in love’s caress,
While white plumed birds confidingly spread,
	Their wings o’er thy heaving breast.

For ages untold have the moon beams danced’
	To thy rippling music soft and light,
And how you are loved by the twinkling stars,
	And wooed by the queen of night!
						LILLIE T. FREEZE.


JEWELS.

			RICH AND RARE-
	THE gems I allude too, are those our
Father in Heaven has bestowed upon us;
they are richer, and rarer, than any the
wealthier mines of earth can produce.
They are many and varied and, to those
who possess, all, or even a few of them,
priceless. The most worthy among them
is Existence.
	Life, is the highest of earth’s good, it is
so lusciously sweet, and the world is so
beautifully, and lovingly, composed. The
great pulse of nature finds a ready response
in the human breast, which often
shouts for joy and is answered by a thous-
and echoes and a thousand songs sweeter
than those of the Nightingale. 
	We see the earth awake from slumber
and she trembles for joy. Her flowers are
hymns, with which in her inspiration she
greets the Sun. Oh, world, hate me, mock
me, but let me live! All vigorous souls
love life. Even old age is beautiful—beau-
tiful as the slow coming, mellow, autumn
after a rich and glorious summer.
	It is beautiful, but not the most beautiful,
there is another life, rough and thorny,
trodden with bleeding feet, the life of
which the cross is the symbol, and which
the grave gapes to finish before the victory
is won, and this is the highest life of man.
Among all the nations of the earth there is
none whose lives have been other than
this, one and all, their fate has been the
same, all have drank of the same bitter cup.
	The next in value is love, pure unselfish
love, the most God like of which is mater-
nal love. It is beyond all philosophy to
solve the wonderful, and beautiful mystery
of maternal love, which is so common and
yet so sublime. A child may come into
the world blemished or deformed, it matters
not to this heavenly passion of motherhood;
it is her child, that is all sufficient.
	The new born human being, meets upon
the threshold of life a love inexhaustible in
its tenderness which makes its cradle like
the couch of a prince. Love is the oldest
instinct of creation, and is descended from
the Maker’s own Word. It has been truly
said by one of the poets.
	“The hand that made us left no trace

[column two]
divine, in him who lives on earth, and
loveth not,” Scott says “Love is Heaven
and Heaven is love.”
	There are two which sparkle and flash in
the diadems of thought, the one is Truth,
the other Poetry. When the soul comes
into living contact with Truth, or Fact,
there springs up in it a thrill of joy, a glow
of emotion, and the expression of that
thrill, that glow is Poetry. The range of
poetic emotion is as wide as the range of
human thought, as of existence, Poetry is
the bloom, and fragrance, of human
thoughts, human knowledge, emotions,
passions, and language. It is the ambrosia
served at the banquet of human life.
	The meeting of the human soul with
truth is so delightful, they are so akin,
that when they recognize each other, the
result is this thrill of joy, this pure and
high emotion, this suggestion of the
nature of the soul, and its origin.
	I have only space, or time, in a paper like
this to emphasize a few of the gems our
Father has given us for our adornment, yet
there are many well worth examining, and
considering, both for their beauty and the
influence they have upon our lives, among
these, and in the joint ranks are, Holiness,
Faith, Hope, Charity, Benevolence,
Literary Taste, and Sorrow. Is sorrow a
gem, you will ask doubtless! I answer ‘yes’!
for it is the substance of our natural life,
and may almost be called the natural ca-
pability of the supernatural.
	No poetry finds its way into a human
mind, unless it has a burden of sorrow in it.
	All that is touching, pathetic, or dramatic
in life has to do with sorrow. The power
of art is in the sorrowful. To glorify
sorrow is one of the functions of song, of
sculpture, and painting.
	Sorrow is the poetry of a creation which
has fallen, of a race which is in exile, in a
vale of tears, closed in at the end by a
sunless defile which we call death. And is
not our redemption the outcome of sorrow?
God gave us both tears and laughter.
Laughter enables mirth to breathe freely,
so tears enable sorrow to vent itself
patiently. Sorrow is a condition of time,
and joy is the condition of eternity. Sor-
row lies in exile from God, joy in union
with Him. In heaven, it is said, joy will
cast out sorrow, and yet there is not a lot
on earth from which sorrow has been able
altogether to banish joy.
				M. A. Y. GREENHALH,


THE Democratic girls of Mt. Holyoke
College seem to have entered into politics
as far as they can. Though in the minority
among the students, they are overflowing
with enthusiasm. They held a grand rally
when Cleveland’s election was declared,
and they held an inaugural banquet and
rally on the evening of March 4th. En-
thusiasm ran high; many toasts were res-
ponded to, and Mrs. Cleveland and Baby
Ruth were not forgotton.
	THE Arizona House of Representatives
has passed a bill giving full suffrage to wo-
men, by a vote of 16 to 7.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WORLD’S CONGRESS OF WOMEN
Under the Auspices of tlte Woman's
Bracnh of the Worlds Congress Aux-
liary, Chicago, May 15-22, 1893.

	One of the interesting subjects on the
Programme of this Congress will be “The
Solidarity of Human Interests," and it
will be treated of by an interesting woman,
Madame Isabel Bogelot, of France.
	At the International Council of Women
held in Washington in 1888, Madame Boge-
lot was the representative of  "The Work
for the Women Liberated from the Prison
of St. Lazare," a philanthropic organization
of which she is the Directress General in
Paris, and to which she gives her life work.
	All those who attended the session of the
international Council remember well the
charming face and naive expression of this
child-like woman of middle age, with gray
hair, fast whitening, dark bright eyes and
a fresh complexion, of middle stature, with
quick impulsive gestures,— thoroughly a
French woman and thoroughly lovable she
was to all who came to know her. She will
be an attraction at the sessions of the Wo-
man’s Congress. Madame Bogelot holds
the office of Treasurer of the permanent
International Council of Women which was
organized at Washington in 1888.
	The Committee of Arrangements having
this Congress in charge has already secured
some fine speakers for the sessions in the
two large auditoriums of the Art Palace.
	These Halls seat each about twenty-five
hundred people, an audience which may
reasonably hope to hear the various women
who will undertake to address them. In-
deed, this question of ability to be easily
heard in a hall of this size, has been a
factor in the decisions of the Sub-Committee
on Programme, and the speakers have been
selected with a view to their ability, not
only to say wise and witty things, but to
say them in tones easily audible to interested
audiences.
	Among the topics and speakers already
secured are the following:
The Civil and Social Evolution of Woman,
		by Elizabeth Cady Stanton.
Woman the New Factor in Economics,
		by Augusta Cooper Bristol.
Our Debt to Brussels,
		by Dr. Marie Popelin.
	Dr. Popelin is the Belgium Woman with
whose name many American women be-
came familiar a few years ago through read-
ing of her efforts to open the legal profes-
sion to her country-women. These efforts
were finally crowned with the success which
Dr. Popelin certainly deserved, and she is
at present a recognized legal practitioner in
Brussels.
	Brussels is known the world over as the
city of free speech. No matter how
stringent the laws in regard to men’s
actions, they are there free to express ideas
ranging all the way from ultra conservatism
through the entire gamut of “isms" to the
rankest anarchy. As a result of this pro-
tection of freedom of speech, Brussels has
been the hostess of a wonderful series of
Congresses and Conventions dealing with
every imaginable subject of modern thought.
It is with this phase of Brussels’ history
that Dr. Popelin’s address will deal.
	This great Congress will open the grand
series of World’s Congresses which will
continue until the end of the Exposition.
	The building in which all the Congresses
[column 2]
will convene is not upon the Exposition
grounds, as many persons seem to suppose.
If the Congresses were held there, all those
attending them would have to pay the regu-
lar admission to the Exposition.
	The Art Institute of Chicago is a new
building now approaching completion,
situated upon the Lake front, quite near
the Auditorium Hotel. It will be entirely
given up to the Congress Auxiliary for the
six months of the Exposition. It contains
two auditoriums, each seating twenty-five
hundred people, and about twenty small-
er halls, ranging in seating capacity from
three hundred to eight hundred. Some of
these will be occupied as the offices of the
World’s Congress Auxiliary, but at least
fifteen will be left for the use of the Con-
gresses. This gives opportunity, in those
Congresses which hold three sessions daily,
for thirty-six sessions weekly in large
auditoriums, and two hundred and seventy
sessions weekly in the Department Halls.
	During the week of the Congress of
Representative Women,  the entire building,
exclusive of the offices occupied by the
Congress Auxiliary, will be at the service
of the Woman’s Congress. We believe
this is not the case with any other single
Congress, and the reason is obvious. The
General Congresses will show, each in its
own Department, the intellectual advances
made in all the realms of thought and ef-
fort by men and women, without special
regard paid to the question of which sex
performed the work, and they will have
five months in which to show this. The
Woman’s Congress, on the other hand, will
endeavor in one week to set forth briefly,
but at the same time broadly and compre-
hensively, the relation of woman to the
world’s work. The addresses will be on
topics calculated to show the relation of
woman to the subject in hand. The Reports
all over the world (these Reports are not to be
presented orally at the Congress but to be
published afterward) will endeavor to give
a resume of the relation of woman to Edu-
cation, Industry, Literature and Art, Phil-
anthropy and Charity, Moral and Social
Reform, Civil Law and Government,
Science and Philosophy, and to Religion in
every country where woman is recognized
as a factor in the national life.
	The management of the Woman’s Con-
gress is in the hands of the Committee of
Arrangements of the Woman’s Branch of
the World’s Congress Auxiliary of which
Mrs. Potter Palmer is President and Mrs.
Chas. Henrotin, Vice-President. It has
been decided to hold but two sessions daily
in the main auditorium and in the Depart-
ment Congresses, in order to leave the
afternoons free for social intercourse, and a
sub-committee has charge of arranging a
series of informal receptions to take place
during the Congress.
	Over forty organizations in this country
and more than that number from other
countries are co-operating in the Woman’s
Congress, by sending representatives to pre-
sent their work during its sessions. In or-
der to give greater opportunity for the pre-
sentation of the organized work of women,
all national associations of women in the
United States have received the invitation
to use for one day a Department Hall in the
Art Institute.
	These Department Congresses will be
managed entirely by the officers of the
organizations holding them. Already
twenty organizations have decided to ar-
[column 3]
range for Department Congresses and are
at work upon their Programmes, striving
to make them as strong as possible and
each desiring to be considered an addition
to the other attractions of the Congress.
	RACHEL FOSTER AVERY Secretary.


A BIRTHDAY SURPRISE.

	AT 3-30, the second of March, at the
close of the Relief Society meeting of which
Sister Hannah Raymond is the President,
Soda Springs Idaho, the friends and
acquaintance of Sister Raymond who were
not at meeting, marched into the meeting-
house loaded down with good things etc:
and the surprise to Sister Raymond, who
was eighty years old, that day was complete
as she had not the slightest idea that her
friends had such a treat in store for her.
She seemed to think she was young once
more, and appreciated the honors shown
her by her many friends in a manner becom-
ing a thankful person many years younger.
	Sister Raymond has many friends as was
shown by those present as the company as-
sembled, was composed of both members
and non members of the Mormon Church;
she being a lady much respected by all who
knew her.
	Sister Raymond was one of the Pioneers
who crossed the plains from Missouri River
to Utah in early days in the first hand cart
company that ever undertook that hard trip,
and she has suffered all the hardships and
privations of a pioneer life, she has been the
mother of thirteen children, five of whom
are living. She was married at the age of
twenty and has lived a life that has made
friends of all who ever became acquainted
with her.
	A temporary table was soon prepared
after her many friends filled into the meet-
ing house and was quickly covered with the
many good things prepared by the sisters,
both old and young, as all took active part.
While the sumptuous dinner was being pre-
pared the Sunday School girls rendered
several songs and recitations, to their credit.
	There were over forty of the more elder-
ly people seated at the first table with Sister
Raymond at the head and after Bishop
Lau returned thanks upon the food and his
blessing upon Sister Raymond all without
an exception appeared to enjoy their dinner.
When the first table was through, nearly
as many young ladies, gentlemen and child-
ren were again seated and there were many
baskets left, and with the food left there
were a number of aged people who could
not attend made to know and remember the
occasion.
	After the meal was over Bishop Lau call-
ed the assembly to order and Elder H. S.
Woolley read the patriarchal blessing Sister
Hannah Raymond received under the hands
of John Young Patriarch on Dec. 10th,
1861. Among other blessings pronounced
upon the head of Sister Raymond was that
she should live as long as life was sweet'to
her.
	After the reading of the blessing a recess
was taken and later in the evening those
who desired assembled to enjoy themselves
in a dance and Sister Raymond opened the
dance in as gay a manner as a lady of forty
could do; and the prayer and benediction
of all was that Sister Raymond might see
many more birthday sand enjoy them as'she
had the one on her eightieth birthday.
							H. L.W.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN. ARISE!

O, Woman, arise! this glow in the skies,  
	Betokens the advent of morning;
Thy spirit may smile, exulting the while,
	In the day which has published its warning.

Its glory shall shine, in splendor divine,
	Thy path, so long dark, to illumine,
And render thee strong to wrestle with wrong
	Which, crushing thee, crushes all human.

Thy desolate cry, through ages gone by,
	To the ear of thy God has ascended:
He bids thee prepare His armor to bear,
	For soon shall thy penance be ended.

In God be thy trust, whose word is so just,
	He hears all thy sorrowful pleading;
Still cling to His hand; He’ll teach you to stand,
	Upholding, encouraging, leading.

Thy heart true and warm, in every form,
	Have pain and pale sorrow attended;
And grim-visaged wrong has trampled thee
		long,
	But soon shall its triumph be ended.

Thy companions, though few, are valiant and 
		true,
	And swiftly their numbers are swelling;
Then never despair, for lo! in the air,
	Pure light is the darkness dispelling.

Undoubtingly hear this anthem of cheer
	The voice of a prophet is singing:
O, Sister rejoice! lift up thy glad voice,
	The bells of thy freedom are ringing!
						        L. L. DALTON.


A SISTER’S TRIBUTE.

Have you seen as you stood on the mountain’s
	brow,
The beauties of heaven, its treasures, and how,
		As if drawn by a magnet below,
They, trembled 'mid air waves and fell to the
	earth
(Allured by her sweetness, and held by her girth)
		Fair life giving beautiful snow?

Have seen how the rainbow, with arch raised on
	high,
Mounting the heavens and spanning the sky,
		Still rests with its portals on earth?
How its beauty, its radiance, by nothing out vied,
Increases in grandeur in splendor and pride,
		While illuming the lowly of birth?

Have seen where the strength of the ocean and
	stream,
Combining their forces, will eddy and gleam,
		The mighty and gentle entwined?
The sage have you seen with his knowledge of
	truth, 
Enshrining his spirit with that of fair youth—
		Aye—wisdom with boyhood combined?

Have seen the white brow with full mental grace
Where God-like endeavor hath left its deep trace,
		Where wisdom hath taken her rest?
Have seen how it throbbed with the ardor of
	youth,
O’er flooded with sea-waves of heaven-born
	truth,
		That surge with their virtuous crest?

	Have noted that throne of expression, the eye,
Where thought and where genius impassioned
	doth lie,

		And mirror the depths of the soul?
Have seen it where justice and mercy unite?
When love but of heaven doth soften its light
		And give it a magnet control?


If these you have seen, 
Oh! then, the fair image me thinks you have seen
Of him, of my brother, the friend that has been,
		E’en while I have bowed ’neath the rod:
The brother who stepped from the fairest of
	heights
To place in my pathway the heavenly lights,
		Reflecting the glories of God.
						ARETTA YOUNG.


U. W. P. CLUB.

	THE monthly meeting of the U. W. P.
Club was held in the EXPONENT Parlor
Feb. 28th, 1893. Prest. E. B. Wells in the
chair. Prayer by Lula G. Richards,
minutes of last meeting read and approved,
members responded to roll call, with senti-
ments from the writings of “Ella Wheeler
Wilcox.” Program rendered as follows:—
	An excellent selected article was read by
Ella Hyde. Two lovely songs by May
Preston. “What western women are do-
ing in Literature,” original article, by Mary
A. B. Freeze. An article by M. A. Y.
Greenhalgh read by May Preston.
	The Badge was discussed very freely and
a decision arrived at, that the same com-
mittee with May Preston added get other
designs and compare with the one already
presented, before deciding upon what
should be adopted; it was voted unanimously,
that the Prest. select from mottoes offered
by the members,and decide upon the one to
be accepted by the club.
	After reading some mottoes which were
handed in by the ladies present, the meeting
was adjourned until the 22nd, of March at
7, 30 p. m. at the same place, where it was
expected we would meet for the last time as
the Prest. contemplated moving from the
historic old house, to more commodious
quarters.
	Refreshments were served, while the
ladies discussed freely the topics which had
been presented to the Club.
	U. W. P. C. Program for March 22, 1893.
	“Women in Journalism,”—Josephine
Spencer. Song and music—Gladys Wood-
mansee. Sketch of the life of an eminent
woman—May Preston. Poem—Ruth M.
Fox. Ignorance Progress Vs.—Phebe C.
Young. Specimens of different styles of
verse, comments—Nevada V. Davis.
Members to respond to roll call, by senti-
ments from Longfellow. Benediction
Phebe C. Young.
			C. C. R. WELLS, Ass’t, Sec.


THE LAND OF MONTEZUMA.

	LEAVING Salt Lake via. of the Rio
Grande and Colorado Midland, east to
Colorado Springs, thence south on the Santa
Fe, three days travel brings us to the city
of El Paso Texas; this is a town of con-
siderable size and not unlike some of our
western cities with all the adjuncts of so
called civilization, Sectarian Churches,
liquor saloons, gambling halls &c. Tak-
ing the street car from this point ten
minutes ride crossing the Rio Grande river,
lands us, as it were, into a new world,
another people speaking another language
different style of Architecture, different
mode of agriculture, manner, amusements
and religion all have a tendency to impress
one that they are not in the Ustadas Uni-
das del Morte.
	Here again a man becomes a child to
learn to talk is the ever ambition of young
Americans, a new field of study if diligent-
ly followed up will aid in developing the


mind, broadening the ideas until he shall
look upon his fellowman in any land or
clime with a spirit of liberality.
	The ringing of the bells going to Church
and see the people going through their
mode of worship on a Sunday morning al-
though they do not have the true gospel of
Christ, their dress, devotion and manner
makes the impression that they are an
earnest religious people.
	The playing of the bands, the shouting
of the boys promenading on the streets and
public places, the great gatherings to see
man pitted in the Arena, against the brute
beast the afternoon of the same day, has a
tendency to make one change his opinion;
we may ask, what kind of an example do
they see when they look to the north with
our boasted civilization and see man pitted
in the Arena against his fellow man in
deadly combat? Leaving these brutal sports
we pass on south from the American line,
two or three hundred miles, here the climate
has changed, old Sol throws his genial
rays on Mother Earth and the husbandman
clad in the lightest of wearing appearel,
reaps his corn, picks his cotton, sows his
wheat, and garden seeds in succession from
October to April.
	On the 6th, of March of the present
year, your humble servant left this beautiful
land the air scented with blossoms of fruits
and flowers to find that winter’s storm king
still held his grip and apparently reigns
supreme in the mountains and valleys of
the west.				FRANCESCO.


ABOUT THE WORLD’S FAIR.

	THE Queen Regent of Spain will be rep-
resented at the World’s Columbian Expo-
sition by the Infanta Eulalia and her hus-
band, Prince Antoine. The Spanish
Cabinet has sanctioned their visit to the
World’s Fair as representatives of Queen
Regent Christina. The Infanta Eulalia
was born Feb. 12th, 1864, and is therefore,
nearly 29 years of age. She was married
to Prince Antoine son of Prince Antoine
d’Orleans, Duke of Montpensier, Feb. 28,
1886. The Infanta Eulalia is the youngest
sister of King Alfonso.

	The Japanese royal family will be repre-
sented at the World’s Fair. It is announc-
ed positively that the eldest son and probable
successor of the Mikado will visit Chicago
in September.

	THE Bureau of Music of the World’s
Fair has issued the following relative to
concerts by American artists at the Expo-
sition:

	Those among the younger, native born, pro-
fessional musicians of this country who may de-
sire to avail themselves of the opportunity, are
invited to communicate with the Bureau of music
before May 1st,with such testimonials as shall in-
dicate clearly the degree of their ability and
talent. Those applicants whom the Musical Di-
rector can recommend will be asked to appear
before a committee with headquarters in Chicago
to be appointed by the Bureau of Music. A medal
or other token will be conferred upon all who
meet the standard of attainment required by
this committee and possibly an appearance in
concert in Recital Hall of the Exposition may be
arranged.
	There will be no expense connected with the
trial in Chicago except those of travel and enter-
tainment: these the candidate must pay, as the
Bureau has no funds for this purpose. 
	The Chicago Committee will not be convened
until after the opening of the Exposition in May,
and will hear no candidates not recommended
by the Musical Director


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office. No. 25 E., South Temple Street
second gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	MARCH 1st, 1893.


PRESIDENT WOODRUFF,S
			BIRTHDAY.

	TO-DAY, March 1st, 1893, is the anniver-
sary of the birthday of President Wilford
Woodruff the venerable Apostle and Presi-
dent of the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints. Every true saint through-
out Zion, rejoices that his useful life has
been prolonged to see the day in which so
many wonderful things are transpiring, and
especially to see the near completion of the
Temple erected in this city for which he
has manifested such intense interest, and a
great desire to live and participate in the
glorious blessings and privileges pertaining
thereto.
	The President’s life has been a most
eventful one, and though he is one of the
most unassuming of men, he has risen
meritoriously to the highest and most
responsible position in the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-Day Saints. In all places
and at all times in prosperity as well as ad-
versity he has ever manifested the humility
and childlike spirit of a man of God, and
this individual characteristic has intensified
the love of the people towards him and in-
creased their reverence for his counsel and
their ardent desire that his life be spared
to lead Israel yet many years now that the
dedication is so near the feeling of confi-
dence is strengthened that their prayers in
his behalf are sure to be answered, and that
he will be able to dedicate the House of the
Lord which he has so carefully watched
the progress in building, and which was
finished during his administration.
	President Wilford Woodruff comes of the
good staunch, old Puritan stock, which is
very apparent in his habits, customs and
manner generally to one who knows the
New England people and their characteris-
tics.
	President Woodruff was bom on the first
of March, 1807, at Avon, Hartford County
Connecticut, a most romantic and interesting
part of the country. His boyhood was
spent upon a farm just as that of many of the
greatest men of America has been.


Today he celebrates his eighty sixth anni-
versary and has arranged, by invitation, for
a gathering of his brethren of the Apostles,
and some other brethren and sisters at his
handsome residence in the suburbs of the
City.
	The EXPONENT offers the most sincere
congratulations to the veteran and beloved
leader and President of the Church, and
may his valuable life be prolonged until he
shall see the utmost desire of his heart grat-
ified concerning the work in which he has
borne so important a part.
	The birthday anniversary of the President
was also by a singular coincidence the birth-
day of his wife, Sister Emma Woodruff,
though she is many years younger than her
husband. Truly her lot has fallen in pleas-
ant places, and the writer congratulates her
on having attained such distinction in the
Church in connection with her husband,
and may her blessings continue to multiply
as the years roll on.
	In our next issue we shall be able to give
some particulars concerning the birthday
party which will doubtless be a very happy
affair, as it almost invariably is when old
friends and co-laborers meet together for
social enjoyment.


﻿THE SALT LAKE TEMPLE.

	THERE has never been a time in the
history of this Church when all the Latter-
day Saints were looking forward to one
particular event with greater interest and
perhaps enthusiasm, than they are at present
to the dedication of the Temple which has
been built here in the valley of the Great
Salt Lake. No Temple in this generation
has been so mnch talked of and dwelt upon,
its beauty, its splendor, its magnificence, its
grandeur and the objects for which it has
been erected with such carefulness thought
and diligence, these themes have been dis-
cussed, commented upon and written about
in the Stakes of Zion here and abroad in
other lands wherever the Saints dwell, or
the Gospel has been preached.
	The people have given willingly and
liberally of their means, not only those who
had abundance but those who had little,and
have rejoiced in giving for such a grand and
noble purpose as the erection of the House
of the Lord. The “widow’s mite” and the
children’s nickels have been as welcome
and acceptable as the hundreds and thous-
ands from the coffers of the rich. It has
taken time, patience and ability guided by
the spirit of revelation to accomplish this
stupendous work. The faith of the Saints
has been centered upon this work to a very
great extent for years past; their prayers
have been offered up to their Father in
heaven that He would open up the way,
would bless and increase the means donated,
that there might be a house suitable,
dedicated and consecrated for the great work
of redemption for the dead and the salvation
of the living. The house of the Lord
built in the tops of the mountains, spoken
of by the prophets of ancient times. In
this house and in such holy places con-
secrated to sacred ordinances and holy pur-
poses it is anticipated the spirit and power
of God will be made manifest in a greater
degree than elsewhere. The Lord will

[Column 2]
pour out blessings upon the faithful accord-
ing to their faith and their needs, and the
Saints are in many instances preparing
themselves to receive the promised bless-
ings. It is a day to be looked forward to
with joy and rejoicing. When the cap-stone
was laid the people covenanted to do cer-
tain things and in fulfillment of these
promises, the Lord has helped them, and
means and money has come, often from un-
looked for sources, and everything has
prospered to the accomplishment of what
was desired, tho’ at the time it looked much
more difficult to do, except to those who
had implicit faith.
	The April Conference is so near now, the
time set for the dedication, that the Saints
are beginning to ask themselves whether
they are worthy of entering therein, and to
inquire into their own hearts and lives and
it seems that a general awakening is mani-
fest; and this is certainly commendable and
will be a part of the duty of every Latter-
day Saint to be humble, forgiving and
penitent, putting aside ill-feeling and selfish-
ness, and seeking to subdue every unworthy
motive and purpose and conform to the
golden rule, “Whatsoever ye would that
men should do unto you, do ye even so to
them.” Charity for others and that love
that passeth all else should be and abound
in the hearts and homes of the Saints at all
times, but particularly when about entering
into holy places should the Saints take rare
that their is no hardness in their hearts no
influence to hinder the outpouring of the
spirit of God.
	This dedication of the Salt Lake Temple
seems the greatest event in the history of
the Church, and will undoubtedly make
an epoch such as has not yet been recorded,
for not only are tens of thousands of the
saints awaiting it with anxiety, expectancy
and sublime faith, but those who have pass-
ed to the other side, are also looking for-
ward to the consummation of the work,
and the commencement of another phase of
the Gospel work, for the millions who are to
be blest through the faithfulness and active
exertions of those who have the privilege
of officiating in holy places.
	The work of redemption is constantly
going forward already there are three
Temples in which the Saints have been per-
mitted to labor, and the work multiplies and,
ncreases more and more, and many more
Temples will be needed and the people will
be inspired to build them as they have been
those that are already completed. The
earth is full of material adapted for these
uses, and the Lord in his own due time
brings to pass His purposes, often in ways
of which man has not dreamed.
	The greatest day that Israel has yet seen
will probably be when the dedication of the
Temple takes place. Can any one who was
present at the ceremonies of the laying of
the cap-stone ever forget the spirit and pow-
er of that occasion, the glory that rested
like a halo upon that vast assembly and the
hosannas that ascended from the assembled
throng. That was truly a gathering of
many nations, kindred, tongues and people;
and now the Saints are on the eve of anoth-
er greater and more important event and it
calls for the united faith, devotion, reverence
and thanksgiving to God, that He may ac-
cept the offering not only of the sacred
edifice erected to his name, but manifest his
approval of their humble and united efforts
to serve Him through obedience to his com-
mandments.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	NO doubt the readers of our precious lit-
tle paper think some apology necessary for
the delay in the delivery, and we think so
too, although we feel sure that all interested
in the success of the EXPONENT, and the
women of Utah generally would excuse the
remissness if they could be definitely in-
formed of the circumstances that have
caused it. Patience good friends for a short
time with the difficulties and embarrass-
ments, and excuse shortcomings that are
unavoidable as you would wish your friends
to excuse you, were you in a like or similar
dilemma. When you come to Conference
call at the Office and we trust all may be sat-
isfactorily explained.
	WE must again ask pardon for omitting
the chapter of the story "In Rural
England." There are so many home topics
to be discussed just now that the space is
almost entirely given to such matters, and
the World's Fair topics which are of particu-
lar importance at present. We have also on
hand notices of meetings and reports that
we hope to publish soon; several obituaries
that are waiting in the editor's desk; but the
people who have sent them will, we hope,
consider that we can only use a limited
amount of space for certain things as there
are so many subjects; and it is very desirable
to keep a record of woman's work in the
Relief Society and other organizations for
benefit, helpfulness, advancement &c. In-
deed had it not been for the EXPONENT, to
which we can refer on many matters that
concern women, we could scarcely have ac-
complished what has been done for the
World's Fair; and for this and other good
and sufficient reasons, the sisters, who are
laboring in various departments of work
and in the societies and associations, should
not only help to sustain the paper by sub-
scription but should preserve the papers so
as to have them for reference.
	WE are quite sure that our readers will
be interested in knowing that our sisters of
the Relief Society organized upon the Sand-
wich Islands have, under the direction of
their very clever and energetic President
Mrs. Libbie Noall, made a handsome and
rather expensive gift to the Salt Lake Tem-
ple. The contribution consists of one
hundred and sixty hand made bamboo fans
and two white feather Kahili's, the work of
the native sisters exclusively. "The
Kahili's anciently were made from the
feathers of birds held sacred by the Hawaiians
and were forbidden to be used outside the
Royal family, and only very recently have
they consented for other kingdoms to pur-
chase them even at the exorbitant price of
fifteen hundred dollars each. We shall have
 more to say of these articles hereafter. It
is certainly a valuable present and some-
thing quite unique. On account of the
recent troubles in the Hawaiian kingdom
there will be no exhibit of the natives' work
or curiosities at the Columbian Exposition
in Chicago.


SPRINGVILLE W. S. A.

	A MONTHLY meeting of the W. S. A.
convened March 10th, called to order by
the President, S. A. Boyer. After the
usual preliminaries, Don C. Johnson was
the first speaker on the programme, “In the


life and character of Napoleon;” among
many good things he said was this, “Tell
me what kind of a character a man is and I
will tell you what kind of a mother he had
and proved that the greatest men have
risen from the humblest ranks of society.”
	The next speaker was our School Super-
ntendent Morgan “On the life of Henry
Clay.” He said that in looking over the
history of men, he divided them into three
classes, great in morals, great in thought,
and great in action, considered Napolepon
great in action but not a conscientious and
moral man, as compared with Henry Clay
said many things worthy of note. Profes-
sor Lynes spoke, by invitation,of the presi-
dent. In his remarks he said he considered
it a greater privilege to be able to vote for a
president than to be one. Considered his
wife as competent to fill that position as
himself and in many respects better. He
brought up many instances in regard to vot-
ing that are an outrage, compared the ig-
norant foreigner with many of our educated
sons before they are twenty one, and our-
educated women who are not allowed to
vote, nor have a voice in who shall teach
their children, considered it un-American,
urged women to educate themselves for the
time when they can have the franchise
said that the women of Utah should not
allow the constitutional convention to con-
vene when Utah is admitted without having
presented a petition to that body. The
president said she was delighted with the
information imparted to us, and it was sug-
gestive of what can be accomplished by
cultivating the intellectual faculties and
making them subservient to our wishes in
whatever direction we wish to drift, hoped
that when a state convention convened, the
women of Utah would be posted on these
matters sufficiently that they will be will-
ing to engraft this clause in their constitu-
tion and thereby avoid the agitation its com-
mision would entail. Yours in the cause of
truth.
	A SUBSCRIBER


R. S. REPORT.

ONEIDA STAKE
	Minutes of the Second Quarterly con-
ference of the Relief Society of the Oneida
Stake held at Oxford, March 5th, 1893.
	Stake President Elizabeth Fox presiding.
The choir sang, "The Glorious Day of
Promise," prayer by Brother Charles
Crowshaw, singing. Minutes of the first
Conference, which was held in Weston,
Dec. 4th, 1892, were read and approved.
Verbal reports were then given by the ward
presidents, Amanda Lewis—Oxford, Eliza-
beth Clark—Weston, D. E. Dudley—
Clifton; very good reports were given of 
the wards represented. Mary J. Hendricks
counselor to President Fox made a few re-
marks and Brother W. D. Hendricks said
he was with his mother at the first organiza-
tion of the Relief Society, remembered and
related some of the instructions given by
the Prophet Joseph Smith. Mary A. Boice
bore her testimony to the truth of this
work. Bishop R. Lewis felt that it was
good to convene in Conference, encouraged
the sisters in well doing invoked God's
blessing on all organizations of the Latter-
day Saints. Choir sang "God is Love,"
Benediction by Brother Laron Andrews.
	Afternoon session:—The choir Sang,
"Sweet is Thy Work," prayer by Brother
Lewis Petty, singing, "Go Search in the


Depths,” sacrament administered by the
Elders. The choir sang a sacramental
hymn. President Fox addressed the con-
gregation spoke concerning the missions
all had come upon this earth to perform
thought mothers that had attended the
Relief Society would have the right spirit
by which to teach and control their child-
ren; gave very good instructions to all, felt
we should all be up and doing, that we
might be prepared to meet the Savior when
He comes on earth to reign.  Counselor
Mary J. Hendricks felt to endorse the
counsel and instructions of President Fox,
there was a great reward to be gained
by being diligent. Sister Fox recited a
verse that came to her mind, which was
appropriate for the occasion.
	Bishop Lewis spoke concerning the
Dedication of the Salt Lake Temple, he was
pleased to have the sisters visit us.  Broth-
er Laron Andrews made some very good
and instructive remarks.  Brother Lewis
Petty bore his testimony to the truth of
what had been said in meeting today, he
also spoke of the good instructions that had
been given in the Priesthood meeting, spoke
of the benefit of the Relief Society in each 
ward.  Brother Laron Andrews encouraged
all to treasure up the good counsel and in-
structions that had been given in this con-
ference, said our heavenly Father knew the
secret feelings of every heart; bore a strong
testimony of the truth of this Latter-day work.
Conference was adjourned for three months.
Benediction by Brother Nephi Clements.
LAURA LEWIS Sec.


SAVONAROLA.

THE FLORENTINE REFORMER
(Concluded.)
	ON the 1st of August 1489 when he had
consented to preach where greater num-
bers might find room, the church was so
crowded that people laying hold of the iron
railings hung from them as well as they
could in their desire to hear.  it was then
he preached upon a passage in Revelations.
Three things he suggested that created a
furore.  "That the Church of God required
renewal and that immediately.  Second that
all Italy should be chastised.  Third that
this should soon come to pass."
	The excitement produced was very great.
The Florentines were totally unused to the
natural eloquence of a preacher who rejected
all traditions and poured forth floods of
fiery words inspired by his subject possessed
by what he had to say, too much in earnest
to think of taste, literature or style—or any-
thing except that with which he was bound
to tell his auditors, and which to them and
to him is a matter of life and death, "this is
at all times a wonderful and impressive
spectacle."  No simulation can attain the
same effect, the fervor may be vulgar, it may
be associated with narrow views and a
limited mind, but wherever it exists in great
or small in learned or unlearned, the man
possessed by it has a power over his fellow-
men which nothing else can equal.  Savon-
arola's whole soul was concentrated upon the
real evils around him, and riveted upon
Florence in particular, the sins, strifes,
frauds and violence; she was enslaved and
corrupt and the preacher's soul was burning
with the extravagant love of civic freedom
he loved her and he could not endure the
shame of her impurity.  Burlamacchi says
the grace of God appeared in the lofty words


[Column 1]
and profound thoughts which he gave forth,
his voice was clear, and his tongue rapid,
but every one understood him, he en-
raptured the very soul of every one who
heard him so that wonders and amazing
appearances were seen by many while he
was in the act of preaching. He was to
them an Apostle, some believed they saw
an angel on either side of him as he
preached. Some saw the Madonna in glory,
blessing him with fair, uplifted hands when
he blessed the worshipers around.
	The crowds became so large that he re-
moved to the Duomo where he preached
during eight years, this cathredal was ex-
actly suited to such an impassioned speaker,
and listeners so intent. It is dark, majestic,
mythical a little light coming in through
the windows gorgeous in their deep color,
the vast area bare and naked, fit to be
filled with a silent Italian crowd a mass of
characteristic Tuscan faces vigorous, harsh
but seldom beautiful. One can imagine
the great voice lighting up a glow of
passionate feeling in those responsive gleam-
ing eyes, the sound coming out of the dark
circle under the dome and resounding over
the heads of the crowd which filled the
nave. No scene could suit meet the
superb bareness of the place.
	Savonarola was often greatly exercised at
his own prophecies and attempted to re-
strain the flood which would thus curbed,
break forth fiercer than ever; the very tu-
mults that rose against him excited and
stimulated his followers. Burlamacchi’s des-
cription of the crowds who flocked to hear
him set the picture distinctly before us.
	The people got up in the middle of the
night to get places for the sermon, and
came to the door of the cathedral, waiting
outside till it should be opened, making no
account of any inconvenience, neither of the
cold nor the wind nor of standing in winter
with their feet on the marble; and among
them were young and old, women and
children of every sort, who came with such
jubilee and rejoicing, that it was bewilder-
ing to hear them; going to the sermon as to
a wedding. Then the silence was great in
the church each one going to his place, and
he who could read, with a taper in his hand,
read the service and other prayers. And
though many thousand people were there
collected together, no sound was to be
heard, not even a hush until the arrival of
the children, who sang hymns with so much
sweetness that heaven seemed to have
opened. Thus they waited three or four
hours until the preacher entered the pulpit.
And the attention of so great a mass of
people all with eyes and ears intent upon
the preacher was wonderful; they listened so
that when the sermon reached its end, it
seemed to them it had scarcely begun.”
	There were men in Florence not at all
likely to be carried away with any common
craze after a popular preacher, whose hearts
ached over the evils of the times, were
voiceless by nature, but sick at heart and
sad at the daily sight of the corruption
round them who percieved in the cowled
Dominican an ally and spokesman beyond
their hopes. One of these was Prospero
Petti canon of the cathedral, who for years
had borne his homely testimony against the
evils of the time, and prophesied as many
humble prophets do of the vengeance of
God overtaking the wicked. He was a firm
believer in the old tradition that the true
vicar of Christ was to come to avenge sin
and make the church glorious. When he

[Column 2]
heard the voice of Savonarola intoning with
prophetic force, he bent his head between
his hands and after an interval turning to
his nephew Carlo Petti at his side said,
“This is the holy prophet of whom
have talked to you for years. Many
such wonderful things and sayings
transpired at that period, and though the
truths proclaimed and the converts made
were not so many perhaps or so wide spread
as afterwards under Martin Luther and
others, still it was dissenting from the evils
of the Roman Catholic church, which had
held such supreme sway and was one of the
most remarkable revivals of a purer and
more devout faith. His denunciation of
avarice, usury and rampant worldliness were
as strenuous and impressive as his exhor-
tations to prayer and the study of the Bible
were touching and beautiful. Historians
say many efforts have been made to prove
by his subordination of rites and cere-
monies to spiritual truth and sincerity by
his elevated spiritual appreciations of the love
of Christ, of faith in him and of the supreme
authority of Scripture, that Savonarola was
an early Luther, an undeveloped reformer,
an unconscious Protestant. Certainly he was
a reformer and one who protested against
evil with a vigor and intensity such as few
men are capable of. He announced the
sword of the Lord which was to smite the
earth, to the rising of great prosecution,
among those who resisted his influence. In
the palace they first talked of banishing
him from Florence, and the courtiers said
we shall do to this Fra Giralamo as we did
to Fra Bernardino. When Lorenzo’s
courtiers talked of driving Savonarola from
Florence he took no part in it but kept his
eye upon the Dominican with interest in a
sense that indicated that he recognized in
him, “one of his own kingly kind, though
so unlike himself, a man worth knowing,
worth making a friend of.” In July 1491—
when the pressure against this man was
very great the Dominicans of San Marco
elected Savonarola their Prior, with a view
to protect him and it was the habit of every
newly elected Prior to pay his respects to
Lorenzo, to thank him for his protection
and recommend the convent to his good
graces. The elders prudent and politiceven
waited to see him do his duty in this par-
ticular and when they found he obstinately
refused they hastened to him in fear, and
demanded him to do so, “who elected me, he
asked, God or Lorenzo?" Lorenzo when he
heard of it was not angry, and no doubt
this great prince and able statesman, was
far more noble and considerate than the
sycophants with whom he was surrounded.
What he said was as though half-amused,
“A stranger has come to live in my house,
and does not think it worth his while to come
and see me.” It is evident that this very fact
stimulated the desire of Lorenzo to know
this one man, who never bowed before him.
From this time he began to haunt the
Church, would go to hear mass, then stray
into the garden, lingering there as a lover
for his mistress, then the Monks would
hasten to tell the Prior but he would only
ask, “Has he inquired for me?” The
troubled monks obliged to say “no!”
“Then let him take his walk in peace.”
	Lorenzo was not content, he sent presents
to the convent, he dropped gold pieces in
the box, a very unusual liberality, still
Savonarola resisted. When the box was
opened and the gold seudos seen, the Prior
laid them aside and sent them to San Marti-

[Column 3]
no to be distributed to the poor, to the
great disappointment of the monks. Lor-
enzo, finding all efforts unavailing to gain
an audience, sent five men of note and
weight, directing them to go as of their own
accord, to beg Savonarola to moderate his
sermons and to cease his denunciations of the
general corruption when they had stated
their errand,which they did with much con-
fusion and embarrassment, the Dominican
looked at them with his penetrating eyes,
and read their secret, he said, “Yon tell me
you come here of your own accord for the
good of the city and the love you bear this
convent, but I tell you it is not so. Lorenzo
de Medici has sent you here, therefore tell
him from me, that though he is a Floren-
tine, and the greatest in the city and I am a
stranger, yet it is he who must leave
Florence and I who must remain. He
shall go away, but I shall stay.”
	The shamed and discomfitted ambassadors
went back witn the message receiving it as
a prophecy. The Prior soon after told the
whole story in a sermon from his pulpit in
the presence of some of the envoys.
	Baffled inall his attempts Lorenzo deter-
mined to crush this rebellious friar, and
took such secret measures as became his
dignity and position. Savonarola afterwards
foretold to a Francisian friar the death of
Lorenzo within the year, he was then in the
full vigor of his life and powers.
	When the time came, he sent for
the Prior who had repulsed him, but
Savonarola sent back the mesenger saying,
“I am not the person he wants, we should
not agree,” but he sent again promising to
agree and Savonarola obeyed the summons,
on his way he told the messenger that
Lorenzo would die; when he reached the
chamber of the dying man, he said, “Father
there are three things which drag me back
and throw me into despair, and I know not
if God will ever pardon me for them.”
These were the sack of Valterra, the rob-
bery of the Monte della Franceulla and the
massacre of the Pazzi. The Prior reminded
him of the mercy of God and said he will
be merciful to you if you will have a great
and living faith that he can and will be 
merciful. Lorenzo had been victorious and
successful in everything but the battle was
lost at last, and the prophet at his side in-
timated the downfall of his family and of
Florence.
	After the death of Lorenzo, came the
French invasion to take Naples, Pietro the
son of Lorenzo held a tottering sway when
the French army crossed the Alps.
Savonarola was preaching in the Duomo
when the news of the army nearing the
city came, the excited populace rushed to
hear what the preacher would say about
this terrible event. He had prophesied of
Lorenzo’s death and he was dead, he had
predicted the coming of a new Cyrus from 
over the hills to punish the wicked and
purge Italy of her sins. Pietro in his fright
went out to meet his fate. He acted with
signal folly when the news of his base sur-
render reached Florence the whole city was
in an uproar the confusion of the masses
was like the gathering of a tempest, leader-
less, counselless as they were one impulse
swayed them to go to the preacher. There
was one man at least who could be trusted,
who would speak out boldly, thither the
crowd hastened.
	Stretching out his arms over the crowd
with the emotion of one who shared their-
pangs, he said, ‘‘repent for the kingdom of


[Column 1]
heaven is at hand, and pardon, O! Lord,
pardon these Florentines who desire to be
thine.” This  was  how  Savonarola took
the tide at its flood.  He might have made
himself leaderautocrat, director, but the only
revenge he bade them take, was chastise-
ment for their  sins, and  the remedy was
reformation not  for  the  state only but
individuals. While the officials still had a
remnant of power and could  yet do some-
thing to save the city, Savonarola held the
populace; next Savonarola went with the
ambassadors as one of them to meet Charles
and see what could be done to save the City,
before he went he delivered a great sermon
telling the people to be merciful and Warn-
ing them then he set out upon his mission,
but  nothing was promised. Charles was
anxious to see the man who had called him
the new Cyrus, he told the king  that years
before this visitation had been revealed to
him, and delivered to him a prophetic mes-
sage in  the name  of  the Lord.   The king
and his generals were moved  by  this re-
markable address of Savonarola and he re-
turned with better hopes, tho’ without
promises, his very presence was a strength
to the City; he restrained the people speak-
ing  to  them  of  peace  and  brotherhood.
Through all those troublesome times he
continued to preach and the people listened.
It seems never to have occured  to him that
this prophetical rule was despotic.  To him
it was the reign of God thro’ his  own un-
worthy lips, he employed this power for no
other end than the  good of the people,  his
enemies say he loved power, and made this
a  welcome  explanation  of  his incompre-
hensible character.  He ruled like the ideal
tyrant of a poetic imagination, his heart full
of  God and  the  people without leaving a
corner for himself and this lasted for two
years and is spoken  of as Savonarola as a
politician, a new style was apparent, a new
spirit animating the people, the impress of
the Democratic friar.  The carnival of 1496
found him silent in obedience to Rome, he
was silenced but his  active spirit  was un-
touched and his courage little broken.
    It does not seem  possible  that any  man
who risks all in the hope of regenerating his
country or his class be it ever so great a cause
should  come  to   any but  a  tragical end.
So long as Savonarola’s influence lasted im-
morality and luxury were out of the fashion,
vileness paralyzed. Savonarola in his own
person was the National guard, his words
was their wine, his eloquence their theatre,
but those things were not to continue, after
he had freed  Florence and tamed  her   he
dropped back into the Prior of San Marco,
and the religious leader, against  whom the
world had now once risen up in fierce fight.
He somehow incurred the Pope’s displeasure,
and one of his tremendous sermons was sent
to the Pope, he was Rodorigo Borgia,  fath-
er of Ceaser Borgia and  Lucretia,  and  the
conflict between these lasted for three years,
during  this  time Savonarola suffered   all
sorts of trials and indignities, in June 1497
the long threatened excommunication was
launched against him and formally publish-
ed  in  the  cathedral.   He  questioned  the
Pope’s legality and that he had no authority
over  the  consciences of the people.   He
kept silence, in his cell occupying himself
with writing until Christmas day 1698, six
months after when he addressed a vast mul-
titude of people, after the solemn mass he
went still further than to doubt the pope and
so enraged his enemies that every day raised
some new sedition against him, at  the  end
of one of his sermons he announced that on

[Column 2]
the first day of the carnival he would if any
of his adversaries  would dare  the  experi-
ment along with him, appear in some pub-
lic place holding the Sacrament in his hand
and appeal to God in solemn prayer to send
fire from heaven and demonstrate whether
himself or his antogonist was  in the right
way.   The scene was very affecting,   his
appeal to the people most touching, but no
one came to accept the challenge.   Twice
afterward similar instances took place and
with the same result—the opposition never
appearing.
     After this he had no peace he was con-
tinually threatened  with  punishment  and
when permitted, he passed his time in prayer
and in such  devotion as  would  touch  the
heart of stone. He was guilty of sedition
and heresy,  and  all  the  tortures  of  the
inquisition were brought to bear upon him
to make him submit and retract. Two  of
the devoted followers of this great man who
had accepted his  views  of faith  were sen-
tenced with him.
     The most  severe  tortures lasted eleven
days, thro’ all these memorial days, he was
alone in his place of torture, the other friars
were dealt with separately:—on the 23rd, of
May 1498, the execution  took place, much
of Savonarola’s experience at  this time  is
involved in doubt but it is a well known
fact that these heroic  men  were executed
by strangling, and their bodies were burned
like those of many other martyrs for daring
to have views and convictions not  in  con-
formity  with  popular creeds.   The   scene
was most affecting.   The  effect,  however,
was permanent and  cannot  be erased,  the
biographers account of this wonderful man,
Savonarola, his life and work are conflicting,
but one who feels the spirit of  the man and
comprehends  the mission   he    filled, will
know that he was a  man of  destiny, and if
one can be  permitted  the privilege  called
of God to help in the  reformation of those
licentious  times. He wrote many celebrated
works in Latin and Italian.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S' EXPONENT.


A GOLDEN WEDDING.

	THE elderly people of our little town,
Orderville, gathered at the residence of
Brother Isaiah Bowers to celebrate the Gold-
en Wedding of our beloved brother and
sister Hersiger, on the 17th, of September.
We had a good time, the program consisted
of songs, recitations and speeches appropri-
ate for the occasion, and a biographical
sketch, by the honored couple of their
former lives which was very interesting.
There were a good many useful presents
given to them.  They felt very happy for
the honor bestowed upon them for they are
very lonely with no children to cheer them
in their declining years and no relatives in
this country.
	The company sat down to a well filled
table of the good things of this world; after
supper was over, there was a beautiful
cake presented to the bride.
	The day was spent with joy and gladness
and all went home feeling well.
The following article was composed for
the occasion, by H. E. Hoyt.

Hand in hand a youth and maiden,
	Fifty years ago to day,
Started out upon life’s journey,
	With their hearts so light and gay
For they knew not of the trials,
	Which the tempter brings to bear,
Upon those whom he would conquer,
	How he does their feet ensnare.


Side by side those two have wandered,
	From the darkness into light,
Side by side they've fought and conquered,
	Now their path is clear and bright;
Side by side they have pressed onward,
	Up the rugged hill of life,
Side by side they've cheered each other,
	Passing by all care and strife.
Side by side through years of darkness,
	E'er the glorious light of truth,
Came to bless them with its beauties
	Bringing more than joys of youth.
Side by side they still are walking,
	Fifty years have passed and gone;
Still their hearts with love are beating,
	As they calmly journey on.
Though no children gather round them,
	Many friends are numbered here,
And they love them for their goodness,
	With a love that is sincere.
Side by side may they still travel,
	'Till our Father calls them home,
With that happy joyful greeting
	Enter in "thou hast well done."
	CLARISSA WILHELM.
German Star please copy.


ALTERATIONS OF THE OCTOROON.

For the Exponent.
	Believing that scenes of murder and
suicide upon the stage, should be avoided
even though the end is not tragical, it
would produce a better impression, leave, a
better and more cheerful feeling in the
minds of the beholders, and inculcate les-
sons of good, the liberty is taken to so alter
the original text.  Jacob, in a prison hav-
ing been caught by the Indian and delivered
up.
	Jacob soliliquizing, “A murderer’s doom is
mine. My love of greed, my mad love for
Zoe brings me here.  I have lost all, all
that man should care for, all that makes life
bright.  My hands are dyed red with blood.
My heart is cold, remorse my fate,  demons
my companions.  No hope no joy, all is the
darkness of despair.  Oh innocent ones,
keep innocent.  Never let those foul in-
fluences drag you down to utter perdition,
where there is no hope, where redemption
cannot come, where laugheth evil ones at
your dismay. This is my fate, that I alone
have brought upon myself.”
Then when Zoe is about to take poison
let her speak like this: “Here is the cup of
Lethe.  Here is the cup that bringeth peace 
of this life’s ills, that bringeth deadly sleep
that maketh me free from that detestable
man’s power, no longer his slave.  Shall I
drink it and sleep the last long sleep?
Shall I drink it, and lay my body down in
the cold and silent grave, shall I still these
warm heart beats, and go to the unseen
land of spirits? I am tempted—tempted, to
put my love, my life away.
	Shall I succumb to cowardly temptation,
or resist the syren’s plea?
There is another life than this, my deeds
will overtake me and what then will I be
there?”
	Dashes the cup down. “Go cup of Lethe,
go; I will not bring everlasting remorse
upon my spirit, I will not take my life, the
life that was given me for good.  I will not
stain my hands by so dark a deed, and bring
a murderer’s fate to me, so dark, so drear,
would be the penalty I would pay.  No
happiness, no joy, no love, no companions 
but those in like distress, no ray of light to
cheer my future way.
	Better be a slave than commit this wicked


act, and I will trust that vengeance over-
take that robber of my peace of heart, that
has brought upon us all this woe, that light
may break upon my eyes that I can see my
pathway clearly."
	Then when the news comes that Jacob is
in prison and the estate redeemed, Zoe
says,
	"George I love you too well to wish you
to link your fate with mine.  Be reconciled
with reason, that Dora for your wife, and
forget me in your love for her. If I do 
right upn this earth then shall I reap a re-
ward in the future. My life shall be de-
voted to others good alone."	
	EMILY B. SPENCER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE judiciary committe of the Illinois
Senate has reported favorably on the bill to
extend township and municipal suffrage to
women.
	REV. OLYMPIA BROWN will have the
sympathy of many friends in the loss of her
husband, Mr. Willis.
	WE note with regret the suspension of
the Arkansas Woman's Chronicle, at the
end of its fifth year.  It was bright, witty,
wise and sweet-tempered, and has been an
ever-welcome visitor to our sanctum.  The
health of the over-burdened editor has failed,
and rest and change have become impera-
tive for her.  The Chronicle has “fought a
good fight.” May it be able to return to
the field with renewed vigor!—Ex.
	The Countess of Aberdeen lends the
force of her example and voice to the cause
of woman suffrage.  She thinks women
owe it to themselves and to the public to
take part in politics. 
	CAMILLA COLLETT, the Norwegian writer
who has been called the “Mme. de Sevigne
of Norway,” was 80 years old a few weeks
ago, and a great festival was held in Christi-
ana to celebrate the day.  She has worked
all her life for the enfranchisement of wo-
men.  Henrik Ibsen was present at the
banquet given in her honor, and the town
was illuminated by a long procession of
students bearing torches.
	MRS. LUCY STONE gave a talk before the
Boston, Massachusetts,  Ministers Monday
Club not long since on “Equal Suffrage
for Women.”
	It is announced that the English women
who are preparing for the art exhibit at
Chicago have selected the following pictures
for the Woman’s Building to exemplify the
achievements of their sex with the brash
aud palette “To the Front,” by Lady
Butler, the fine representation of a detach-
ment of cavalry riding out of the gate of
an old town in Brittany; “A Regatta,” by
Miss Montalba “Browning’s Palace at
Venice,” by Miss Clara Montalba; and a
portrait study by Miss Hilda Montalba; the
much-admired portrait of a child, by Miss
Alice Grant; “Eurydice,” by Henrietta
Rae; “Molly’s Bail Dress,” by Mrs.
Perugini, and an exquisite little scene of a
cottage garden by Mrs. Allingham.—Ex.
	An English salt concern has made a salt
statue, modeled after Bartholdi’s Liberty-
Enlightening the World,” in New York
harbor.  The statue is 5 1/2 feet high and
stands on a rock salt base 7 feet high. The
salt was taken from a mine 250 feet deep.
The English firm will send it as an exhibit
to-the World’s Fair.


ITEMS FROM ST. GEORGE.

Editor Woman's Exponent:—
	JUST to let you know that we away off
in Dixie are still alive to our duties in the
good works of Relief Society, Mutual Im-
provement and Primary Associations, and
also have the interest of the World's Fair
at heart, I'll write you a short account of 
a trip just taken, by Mrs. Ann C. Wood-
burry, Julia H. Ivins, Clara C. Cannon, of
Salt Lake, and myself, taken in their in-
terest.  We left St. George, Feb. 13th,
visited five of the settlements on the Rio
Vergin River and invited the other teo
small towns to meet with us at the nearest
large setlement, tuse we were enabled to
meet with the aformentioned associations 
and found them all doing a good work;
and all showed an interest in contributing
in every way possible to the World's Fair.
From the river settlements we went via
Bellevue to Harmony back to Bellevue and
Leeds, meeting with the same organizations
in these places found the same interest
manifest in these places as we have dis-
cribed.  We traveled one hundred and sixty
seven miles held fourteen meetings in one
week and returned home safely feeling well
paid for our time and hard riding over,
"Dixie roads," the hospitality and good 
feelings we met on every hand makes us
feel that we have in this part of the land
come to that time referred to in the hymn,
"When every man in every place shall
meet a brother and a friend," we ladies
met as brother, sisters and friends and
seemed to be appreciated by all.
	MOLLIE JUDD.


OBITUARIES.
	Hannah Oleson, or better known as Hannah
Neilson, died at her home in Hooper, Weber Co.
of old age, Feb. 7th, 1893. Deceased was born
in Bosarp, Malmo Sweden, Oct. 16th, 1816. She
was the daughter of Anders Oleson and Ellen
Jipson. She first heard the Gospel in the sum-
mer of 1857 and on the 26th, day of December of
the same year she was baptized into the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, by Elder
Neils Johnson her only bed was often vacated
for the weary Elders and she divided her last
crust of bread with them and washed their
wounds when they had been mobbed. She left
her native land in the spring of 1862, bound for
Zion; she crossed the Ocean in a sailing vessel
and crossed the plains with ox-teams, arriving in
Salt Lake in the fall; she left home, relatives and
all she held dear for the Gospel’s, sake, being the
only one of her family that joined the Church.
From Salt Lake she moved to Round Valley,
Morgan Co. She was one of the Pioneers to
Hooper, Weber Co. coming to this place in 1869.
In August, 1871, the Relief Society was organized
and she was one of the first teachers chosen, in
which capacity she labored unlil the day of her
death; she would sometimes walk two aud three
miles, when she was over seventy-five years of
age, to get to her meetings; she died as she had
lived, a faithful Latter-day Saint. A loving
mother and a friend to the poor and needy; she
leaves one son and nine grand children to mourn
her loss, she will be missed by all.
	DIANTHA A. MUNSEE, Sec.
Editor Woman's Evponent:—
	IT is with sad feelings that we announce the
death of our beloved sister and co-laborer Han-
nah Maria Russell Marchant who died Feb. 22nd,
1893.
	She came from England to Utah when she was
a young girl, and has lived in Peoa ever since.
	She was born August 6th, 1850. She mar-
ried John A. Marchant November, 1867, was the
mother of eleven children, six of whom are left
to mourn her loss. She was a member of Peoa
Relief Society from its organization and held the
office of Secretary about twelve years; and per-
formed the duties of that office to the best of
her ability. She was faithful and true to every
obligation in life.
	We shall miss her in every gathering, she was


helpful to the poor and willing to do all she could
to aid the sick and suffering. We realize our
loss is her gain, so we say rest in peace. 
	LYDIA E. WALKER Prest. R. S. 
	HARRIET M. MARCHANT, Sec.
	DIED in Kanosh Millard Co. Utah, Dec. 11th,
1892. Elizabeth Turner Barney daughter of Wal-
ter and Lydia Turner, born in Mattison Town-
ship, Green Co. Ohio, July 30th, 1808. She was
married to Lewis Barney in 1833, by whom, she
had six children, three of whom are living, Wal-
ter in Arizona, Henry and Joseph in Kanosh,
her son William Orson fourteen years old was
slain by Indians, in Circle Valley Utah, while
seeking the cows, in the year 1865. Sister Barney
joined the Church with her husband either in the
year 1843 or early in 1844, near Nauvoo and passed
through the mobbings and drivings, and uncom-
plainingly bore the privations and sufferings inci-
dent to those years of persecution. Came on to
Council Bluffs in 1846 and resided at Bullock's
Grove three or four years, moved to Six Mile
Grove, and came on to Utah in 1852 came to Span-
ish Fork and resided there about ten years; came
on south to Circle Valley and resided there until
driven out by hostile Indians. Afterward settled
in Kanosh where she has resided up to the time
of her death. Sister Barney was eminently a wo-
man of peace, of unwavering faith in the Gospel
as restored to earth through the Prophet Joseph
Smith and died with the hope of a glorious resur-
rection. COM.


DOCTOR MATTIE HUGHES CANNON,
	Office: II South, First West Street. 
Office practice for Diseases of Women from 2
	until 4 p. m.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making In all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping don[-] to order. But
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
No. 41 S.	
	WEST TEMPLE STREET, 
	Opp. Grant Bros. Stables.

MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p.m.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House

R.K.THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER &. STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FOR[-]
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders [---]
[illegible line] promptly responded to [illegible line]
DAVID JAMES, Box. 306. Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 21. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15, 1893. No. 17. 18


CONTENTS:
	Passing thoughts—Camelia. Family relations.
S. W. Richards. Personal Reminiscences.
World’s Congress of Women. The Woman’s
Branch of the World’s Congress Auxiliary
--Rachel Foster Avery. Queen Elizabeth.
Miscellaneous. Notes and News; Expression of
Sorrow.
	EDITORIAL:—President Woodruff's Party.
Elizabeth Howard. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—Blessed are they who sow—L. L.
Dalton. Woman’s Sphere—Ruby Lamont. Lines
of Comfort—Annie Rowley. Soliliquy—Emily
H. Woodmansee.


BLESSED ARE THEY WHO SOW.

Blessed are they who sow good seed,
	Beside all waters fair,
And send abroad the gentle feet
	Of oxen and asses ther;
Who cause the rugged hills to smile
	With fields of waving grain,
And clothe with verdure, mile on mile,
	The parched and panting plain.
Blessed are they who set the roots
	Of shade-trees cool and wide,
And prune and nurture pleasant fruits,
	That man may be satisfied;
Who train the vine that climbs so high,
	And the vine that creeps so low,
And lead, their tender rootlets nigh,
	Refreshing waters' flow.
Blessed are they who dig and hew
	Foundation stone and beam,
And build fair homes for spouses true,
	Where hearth-fires warmly gleam;
Who blessings ask on plow and seed,
	On ox and furrowed plain,
And call on One to give the meed
	Of sunshine and of rain.
Blessed are ye who thus have done,
	O Saints of Latter Days,
Who from the earth you bread have won,
	And given your Lord the praise;
Who troops of sons and daughters rear,
	From lust and blood-guilt free!
God will love souls so clean and pure,
	To all eternity.
	L. L. DALTON.


Written for the Exponent.
WOMAN’S SPHERE.

A SATIRE.

Yes brother, she’s a woman; see thou to it .
That she keep faithfully along the track,
The beaten track of ages; be it narrow,
What doth it matter if it is beaten hard,
And clean and dustless—If she move an inch,
This way or that, then might she serve thee less;
For see, she might look upward to the stars,
And wonder at the greatness of the sky,
Perchance to shrink beneath the load of care,
That makes her field so narrow, wand’ring thus
She might grow dusty with a higher sense,
And thy wants be forgot! Instead of chords,


Of harmony, what harroweth now thine ears,
A harsh, discordant clamor! A shrill cry,
That soon the gates may open to the plan
And let the cushioned prisoner wander free,
To change her fashioned her nature for the wild,
Aggressive temper of the wilderness!
Ah, poor, misguided woman! Keep her true!
True to the same old path that all the days,
Her sisters have beat hard and wet with tears,
Lest eyes as grand as thine be dimm’d with dust,
Or crushing whips I scorn might bruise her white
   ness;
True to the mark! Let not her skirts flaunt
   round,
And pass the bounds of social creeds and customs;
Let not her curious mind unveil the tomes,
To read the secrets of God’s universe;
For He who made them craveth not that she,
Should love or comprehend them to His glory,
Her sweet soft eyes, formed but for love or tears,
Must never sparkle to triumphant truth,
Nor have they any need of widened vision,
Keep down the windows lest the sun-light’s gold,
The verdant landscape or the gleaming stream,
The soft blue dome above, the flashing worlds
Allure her soul to happy, upward flight,
And she forget her duty, past the mark,
The dust would stain her spirit; she might think,
Without thine aid or guidance; e’en to Heaven
She would aspire without thy stronger hand,
Trusting, the jade! To Christ, to lead her on
Safely and soft through labyrinths of time,
Nay, this must never be! Thy part to rule
Would be forever slighted; love would die,
A long forgotten art; sweet childhood’s smiles
Orphaned of mother love, would soon grow old;
An artist mother would forget the babe
That nestled, trusting, on her cold, hard breast!
Then keep her in the good old trusted track
In which the faithful women of all time
Have walked so true before her, why should
   change,
Come o’er her spirit? All have gifts alike—
All woman’s gifts; and if she dare to stray
Or long for other fields or wider skies,
Then whip her back with stinging, cruel words.
	RUBY LAMONT.


[Column 1]
PASSING THOUGHTS.
	IT has been a very long, tedious winter
and one grows tired even of the cheery fire
and the long evenings when the storm
blows out side and we gather round the
hearth, and eat pop-corn and molasses
candy and tell stories and sing songs, for
winter has trespassed so far on to the would
be spring time that, in truth, the pop-corn
is gone, the molasses jug is empty and the
stock of stories and songs are well nigh ex-
hausted and we long for the spring and the
return of the birds, that new songs may be
sung, new stories learned, new crops raised
to replenish the stores for another winter.
	So it is, one always seeks and longs for
change. Are we never satisfied? The
wealthy seek more wealth, the wise more
wisdom and it is better so. How dull the
world would be, if all were content to sit
right down and take life as it is, without
trying to change. There then would be no
advancement. no improvement but a never

[Column 2]
ceasing sameness; and it makes one shud-
der to think of such monotony. It is this
desire for constant change that broadens the
mind, creates ideas, strengthens the body
and develops the soul.
	I wonder if any of us realize how much
happiness there is in this world after all, we
read so much about sorrow and poverty
and the great institutions erected for the
benefit of the suffering, that one almost
feels that it is indeed a "sorrowing world"
and yet even in the humblest corners, and
poorest quarters there is happiness. It is
not half such a bad world after all. It is
the spirit of the world's inhabitants that
make it good or bad. I know a woman
who is very wealthy and lives in a grand
home with every luxury, who longs at
times, with tears in her eyes and a trembling
heart for a dear little home she knew in
child-hood, where the wind blew through
the cracks and the frugal supper of bread
and milk prepared by the little mother
would be far sweeter now, than the elegant
course dinner prepared by her trained ser-
vants, many of us are the same, we dream of
those humble little homes of our child-
hood and think them almost heaven if
those homes of the past were so happy for
us, why do we presume that the humble
homes of today are not happy, for those
who own them, if the spirit desires hap-
piness it can find it in the humblest home as
well as in the grandest. It is not the set-
ting of the gem that renders it brilliant, it
is the gem that adorns the setting. The
marguerite is as white and beautiful in its
native fields as in the conservatories of the
palace. Improvement and advancement
are gained more readily by a happy spirit
and changes for the better come to those
who wait and work not to those who wait
and idle.
	Work, that's the word and that's what
brings true happiness, if among the poor
there is so much sorrow, is it not because
they have no employment? True charity
is to give employment and let each one
earn his reward, then there is no dependence
and the independent sonl is certainly the
happiest.
	It is not the idle man who becomes great.
When I was a child I used to think that
geniuses never worked, now I know they
are the hardest workers. I thought that
Burns could write his poems without an
effort and never needed to study or work
to gain the praise of the world, but after-
wards learned he had a pretty hard time
to gain that praise, and after his hard daily
toil spent many hours studying how to stamp
his genius on the world.
	I believed that writers could sit down and
write novels without any trouble at all
imagine my surprise when I read that Lew
Wallace was seven years writing "Ben
Hur" and yet the work is worth those
seven years labor and the author's genius
shines through every page. God bestows
gifts upon us but leaves us to employ those
gifts ourselves. No matter how much
native genius a man may have, it is his
work in bringing it forth that makes him


[Column 1]﻿ 
great. An idle genius makes the man no
better than no genius at all.

	The readers of the EXPONENT we know
are mostly mothers and wives, who have
so many cares connected with those loved
offices that little time is allowed them for
reading, and what a sweet rest it is some-
times when the baby is being nursed to
sleep, to pick up the paper and read some
bright notes about what other women are
doing or perhaps read in the meantime
something about the home decoration, the
table setting—the nursery, the kitchen, the
laundry, and thus many little items may be
learned in a few moments to lighten the
labor and brighten the home. A young
woman once said to me, "I spent so many
dollars and a number of long afternoons
attending a cooking school and after all the
things I learned never amounted to much I
find my own kitchen the best cooking
school in the world," and of course the
remark was true just as she might spend as
many dollars taking music lessons, and
then find her piano the best professor after
all. It is the practice that makes perfect,
and in order to cook meats, make light bread
delicious desserts one must have practice
and a great deal of it. The cooking school
must be considered only as the preceptor,
but do you know my dear readers that these
schools are now quite a fad among fashion-
able women and in the large cities east, the
beautiful parlors of the most wealthy wo-
men are used as lecture rooms, where a most
proficient house keeper tells her lady friendt
how to concoct dainty and savory dishes
for their tables: now surely time is not
wasted, on these afternoons, not if the
listeners go home and prepare these dishes
themselves, in fact is it not rather a profit-
able way of being sociable with one's friends
a pleasant afternoon together and something
learned besides?
	The other day I saw some very handsome
portieres now you know when the idea of
hanging curtains over the door way first
came out I was so charmed, but goodness
who could afford them certainly only the
rich for they were always of such heavy
and expensive material that the doorways
of most homes, where the income was only
moderate had to go uncurtained but these
pretty portieres, solved the problem; they
were not at all expensive made only of blue
demin so prettily decorated with a scroll
pattern of white braid. They hung over
the door entering the dining room from the
parlor and a table-cover of the same
material and pattern made the room look
quite stylish and pretty. Of course house
plants always adorn a dining room and a few
cut flowers on the table, or a blooming plant
with the pot neatly covered with white
paper wonderfully enhances the appearance
of the table.
	Among the recipes given for flavoring
we so often are told to use the English bay
leaves and in this country they are hard to
obtain, but have you ever tried the peach
leaf: it resembles the bay leaf very much
and yields delicious flavor but should be
used only moderately. The bay leaves are
the leaves of the cherry laurel a small ever-
green grown on the shores of the Mediter-
ranean and can only be obtained at the
grocers in large cities where many varieties
of imported delicacies are kept, so of course
in most country places are not obtainable.
	The Utah women are doing a wonderful
mount of beautiful work for the World's

[Column 2]
Fair and how nice it would be if an exhibit
could be made at Conference time that the
visitors from the different counties might
see what their neighbors have been doing,
but this will be impossible as before the
coming conference, the articles must be
shipped to Chicago but the EXPONENT will
endeavor to write a description of these
beautiful things that its readers may know
what Utah women are doing for the
World's Fair. CAMELIA.


138 WOMANS EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	FAMILY RELATIONS.

	[S. W. RICHARDS.]
	FAMILY relations! What of them:
Much every way. In them are embodied
all hopes worth cherishing:—all joys worth
contemplating:—all loves that are enduring;
and all labors that shall determine and
secure the desired reward of everlasting
lives, and the exaltations to which those
lives are lawful heirs.
	It is in these relations the soul of man
finds its powers of development. Its loves,
its sympathies, its tenderest emotions, pas-
sion subdued and the natural man putting
on the divinity of the Gods; all are found
deeply rooted and flourishing in their
growth, where family ties bind soul to soul
and two are one.
	The maiden of tender years looks for-
ward to the anticipated time when the joys
of wedded life shall be hers. The manly
youth who would honor the laws of his be-
ing, seeks most reverently the aid of his
appointed "help meet" in the relation named;
and with their loves as firmly joined as
their hands and hearts, they enter upon a
new life—a life of heaven’s ordaining.
	This relation ordained of God for man,
is of necessity as eternal as the being by
whom it was ordained and appointed unto
him; and eternal honors, obligations, and
responsibilities, are necessarily attached to
and grow out of it.
	True father hood and mother hood may
be secured in this relation, by which man
puts on the character of God, his father;
even Him who is the father of us all: and
may in time like one of old who was in the
image of God think it not robbery to be equal
with God: and why not? From this re-
lation springs the increase that grows into
kingdoms; and those kingdoms in the pro-
gress of their development will demand
thrones, principalities and powers;—the
same position and powers as are now ascrib-
ed to our heavenly Father, and by virtue
of which He is God.
	In tracing the inevitable results of this
relation, they lead us not only to divinity
but to infinitude, to the eternal, the never
ending and must have worlds on worlds to
meet the demands of eternal increase.
	These considerations growing out of the
family relation afford unmistakable evidence
that man’s mission to earth is of no vain
import. In it is involved all that is manly,
angelic and Godly and demands the first,
highest and holiest, endeavors of those who
engage therein. The motives, and every
incentive on the part of the actors, must
be strictly in conformity with the law of
God. These eternal consequences can
only result from an eternal covenant of
union, for time and for all eternity; and
that covenant sealed by an everlasting
priesthood which is without beginning of
days or end of years; an authority that is
not affected by the limits of time but like
God, is from everlasting to everlasting, or
in other words—was before time and will

[Column 2]
be after time shall have ceased, and must
ever continue in the midst of an endless
increase.
	Any young man who would attempt to
build his house and home upon any other
foundation, would not be worthy of the love,
hand and heart, of one of the fair daughters
of God.
	Here in this relation are found all the en-
dearments lingering in those heavenly
words of Mother, Home and Heaven, in
which are found all that is Sacred lova-
ble or can be desired by any soul to which
the spirit of God giveth understanding.
	The youth of Zion who will give heed to
these important truths, need never be
found in the condition those were to whom
the Apostle Paul was speaking, when he
told them the time was short when they
who had wives should be as though they
had none; and as our fathers and mothers
have been who passed from earth before the
Priesthood came to them, and they were
taught the eternity of God’s ways. Their
covenants of marriage were only for time;
and when either party had passed its portals
the covenant and all its consequences came
to an end. No possible hope of its renewal
lingered with them by which the powers
and blessings of a reunion should be theirs
in and after the resurrection. There were
no eternal considerations attached to their
covenant. It was only made to have force
’till death should separate and death has
gloried in its power of divorce, rending a-
sunder those ties designed to be like Him
who ordained them—eternal and everlasting;
and what is more terrible, if anything can
be more so, is the fact that the increase
under such a covenant, the children of
such a union are like the parents, without
any claim of relationship beyond the bounds
of time: they remain singly and alone and
are as the angels, ministering for others who
have secured their kingdoms, and are rulers
in the midst of Deities.
	“That kingdoms and thrones to God belong,
	Is truth re-echoed in our song,
	All those below with those above,
	Shall join the chorus ‘God is Love.’
	All knees must bow and tongues confess,
	To Christ the son of righteousness.”
	For the kingdoms of this world shall be-
come those of our Lord and Christ. Man,
in his development and increase, has pro-
duced many of them and will continue so
to do until they become innumerable to
man.
	Our father Abraham was assured that
his seed should be more in number than
the sands of the sea shore, or even the dust
of the earth; and many should be made
kings and priests to reign over them.
	In all these grand developments of in-
crease the man is not without the woman.
There is no creative power in the one with-
out the other. Neither can ever be like
God without the other. The history of the
race and the promises of God are alike to
all, and the destiny of the one is that of the
other.
	Now let the daughters of Zion who are
the daughters of God, give heed to their
ways that they be not found allied to any
one only by virtue of an everlasting cove-
nant, confirmed and sealed by an everlast-
ing priesthood; lest their lives be in vain,
their love become hate and their hopes
perish as all things must that are only of the
earth; and with the earth must pass away.
While in this life, by virtue of covenant
and ordinance, secure the right to inherit
all desired blessings in the life to come.


WOMAN’S' EXPONENT.


LINES OF COMFORT.

	Presented by the Primaries of American Fork
Ward to Sister Sarah Eggertsen Cluff of the
Utah Stake Presidency of Primaries, on the oc-
casion of the death of her beloved son Alfred E.
Cluff aged fourteen years, who died at his home
in Provo, Dec. 25th, 1892.
WE love you kind sister, and join here to send
		you
	A few lines to comfort your grief stricken heart.
And pray that the spirit of peace may attend you,
	For we know it is hard with a loved one to
		part.
When Christmas to others its good cheer was
	bringing,
	It filled us, dear sister with sorrow and woe
To know in your ears the sad death knell was
	ringing,
While the hot, scalding tears from your dim eyesdid
	flow.
But bright is your hope in the happy reflection,
	That the boy you’re bereft of so faithful and
	true,
Will rise with the just in the first resurrection,
	As a star in the crown of your husband and
	you.
How sweet is the thought, when our lov’d ones
	are taken,
	To know that they traveled the straight nar
	row way,
With a fervor of purpose that could not be
	shaken,
By the wiles of temptation that lead us astray.
Your son has been summoned to fill some high
	station,
	Of honor with heroes we love and extol,
To preach to the spirits the plan of Salvation,
	That the Gospel of peace may be offered to all.
We mourn with you sister and share in your
	weeping,
	But still we can feel that repining is vain,
Your Alfred is well and in heaven’s safe keeping,
	No more to be subject to trouble and pain.
We honor you sister as one who is gifted,
	Of God, and by nature to lead and to guide,
How oft has the veil from our blind eyes been
		lifted,
	As the spirit would lead you our errors to chide.
Take comfort then sister in this your affliction,
	The sad blow of death that so suddenly came,
Will be found when you look in the proper
	direction,
To weave sweet, fresh laurels to honor your name
	ANNE ROWLEY.
	In behalf of the Primary Association of Ameri-
can Fork of Utah Stake.


PERSONAL REMINISCENCES.

Editor Woman's Exponent:
	DEAR Old Friend:—My Exponent had
not come for some time, and I had began to 
feel hungry for, and wonder why it had
not reached me.  When yesterday I heard
a dump on the doorstep and there was a
parcel of four numbers truly a feast of fat
things.  As I read the beautiful inspiration.
"The Christmas of the Pioneers," by our
gifted Sister, Augusta Joyce Crocheron, my
mind went back to the spring of 47, when
I, a young girl of seventeen, had just ar-
rived at Winter Quarters from my home in
England.  Notwithstanding the dire pov-
erty, and much sickness which prevailed,
most of the people were preparing to follow
in the wake of the Pioneers who had just
started on their journey.  My husband,
with others was busy mending wagons,
looking up yoke-bows, making bow-keys,
or pins to hold the bows in the yokes, hunt-
ing up the cattle, mating them, finding
chains, especially lock-chains, for, bear in

[Column 2]
mind there were no "breaks" to hold wag-
ons back going down steep hills in those
days.
	These and a hundred other things occu-
pied their time.  While we were busy
making and mending wagon covers,
making crackers, and in every way aiding
and assisting to prepare for the long and
toilsome journey.  At last we started and
got as far as the Elk Horn River, where we
camped about a month, waiting for the rest
to arrive, so as to organize into companies
of hundreds, fifties and tens.
	The brethren made a large and substan-
tial raft, on which to ferry us across, for the
river was swift and deep, and every wagon
and person had to cross in that way.  The
cattle were made to swim over.  I forgot to
say that our family being numerous and
help scarce, two of we women rather thought
we could manage with the oversight of my
husband to drive our own team, which
consisted of a yoke of cattle, for, though
just coming from a large city, and not
being used to this kind of a life—never
having seen cattle yoked together; still I
thought, well- what any other woman can
do, I can, so, shouldering my whip, I
drove out of Winter Quarters, and soon
learned to manage my team first class.
	I learned to put on the lock-chain instant-
ly at the top of a steep hill, and would
jump out quickly while the cattle were
going, to take it off, so that the impetus
afforded by the end of the descent would aid
them in starting up the other side, for we
often passed through deep gullies  On one
occasion I was jumping out while the
cattle were going, and my skirt caught on
the tongue bolt, and threw me down, and
before I could extricate myself the nigh
front wheel passed over my leg just above
the ankle.  I scrambled into the wagon the
best way I could, I turned down my stock-
ing expecting to see a bad bruise for it was
very painful, but lo! and behold there was
no bruise there.  I was much astonished
but very thankful.  The pain soon passed
away and I drove my team as usual.  I
must relate another remarkable incident
that happened.  While toiling through the
quick-sand of the Blackhills—the
“reaches” had been shortened, teams
doubled, and, while they were toiling slowly
up the hills all but the driver pushing be-
hind, one of our dear little ones, a boy
fifteen months old, being asleep was left in
the wagon.  It being a hot day, the sides
of the cover had been tied up.  The child
on awaking, finding himself alone, looked
out at the side and fell right between the
wheels, the hind one passing over his limbs
before he could be rescued.  His father
picked him up—I durst not look up for I
expected to see his tender limbs severed
from his body, but strange to say—owing
to the soft sand, and the great mercy of
God, all the hurt was a red mark made by
the iron tire across his limbs.  His father
administered to him, and in a little while he
was holding the whip apparently as well as
ever.  The first part of the journey I
enjoyed much, being young, and having
good health, I did not mind the driving and
the labor incidental to such a journey, cook-
ing, washing and etc.  At night, when
we drove into camp the wagons formed in
the shape of a horseshoe, the first two with
the front ends pretty close together, the next
drove close enough for the tongue to lie out
side of the wheels of the first one, and so
on until the fifty were in place.  The en-
closure forming a corral for the cattle

[Column 3]
through the night.  Each driver unyoked
his cattle (I frequently unyoked mine) then
those whose turn it was, herded them till
dark.  The rest of the men would father
material for fires, often nothing but dried
grass or Buffalo chips as they were called.
	As we neared our destination, our jour-
ney became wearisome and full of toil.
Grass became scarce, cattle began to give
out, often, when an ox gave out, a cow
was put in its place.  The roads were
rough, wagons had to be pitched up, till
sometimes you would wonder how they
could go at all.  One of my calamities was
my lock-chain giving out, and in going
down a hill I had to hold the nigh ox by the
horn and tap the off one over the face and
keep saying, "Whoa, Back; Whoa, Back,"
and nearly hold my breath till I got down
to the bottom, then stop, draw a breath of
relief, see that all was right, then on again,
for others were right on our heels and we
had to get out of their way, (you can just
imagine what a condition our skirts were 
in.)  I never shall forget the last day we
traveled, and arrived in the Valley.  It
happened to be my turn to drive that day
Sept. 28th.  The reach of our wagon was
broken and tied together after a fashion,
and the way the front wheels wabbled about
was a sight to behold.  I kept expecting
every minute to see the poor old concern
draw apart and come to grief, but it held
together and when my eyes rested on the
beautiful entrancing sight—the Valley;
Oh! how my heart swelled within me, I
could have laughed and cried, such a co-
mingling of emotions I cannot describe.
My soul was filled with thankfulness to
God for bringing us to a place of rest and
safety—a home.  No doubt our valley looks
astonishingly beautiful to the strangers who
come here now, but it cannot evoke the
same emotions as it did to us, poor weary
tired, worn out, ragged travelers.  When I
drove into camp, unyoked my cattle, and
sat down on the wagon tongue, and began
to realize that, in the morning I would not
have to hitch up and toil through another
day, such a feeling of rest—blessed rest
permeated my whole being that is impos-
sible to describe, and cannot be realized
except by those who have passed through
similar scenes.
	After a day or two my husband with
others began to explore Emigration and
other canyons, made a road to the timber
and in a very short time a log room was up,,
a rough fireplace was built, what few chairs
we had brought with us, our trunks and
boxes were brought in, and a few rough
seats were improvised, enough for us to
assemble around the fire with a semblance
of a roof over our heads (we did not wait
for it to be finished) that was an evening
never to be forgotten.  The first one of the
kind in more than three months.
	We spent the evening in singing
prayer and praise to that kind Being who
had brought and guided us to this haven of
peace and safety.  Soon more rooms were
added, and made as comfortable as possible,
we slept in our wagons far into the winter,
after our breath would be frozen and our
pillows.  But those of us who were well
did not mind it very much, we were con-
tented and happy.  I accompanied my hus-
band into the canyons, cooking and making 
things as comfortable as I could, for him
and the men with him.  I well remember
the first night I slept on the ground with
the star bedecked firmament over head.
To be continued.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE D. WELLS, - - Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00 one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	Exponent office. No. 25 E., South Temple Street
second gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours
rom 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter.
 
SALT LAKE CITY, - - March 15th, 1893.


PRESIDENT WOODRUFF’S PARTY.

THE evening of the first of March was a
red letter day in the family of President
Woodruff on account of the celebration of
his eighty-sixth anniversary.
	The party was made up of a few of his
old-time companions and fellow laborers in
the Gospel, some with whom he had travel-
ed many thousands of miles on land and
sea; probably there is no man living in the
Church who had traversed as wide an ex-
tent of country and in as many lands to
carry the Gospel of salvation, as President
Woodruff has, and for this and many other
reasons he is very greatly reverenced by
this people, as well as for the position he
holds as President of the Church. Among
the assembled guests were President Larenzo
Snow of Brigham City, Apostle Franklin
D. Richards and wife, Apostle Moses
Thatcher of Logan and wife, Apostle F.
M. Lyman, of Tooele, and wife, Apostle
John Henry Smith and wife, Apostle
Abraham H. Cannon and wife, President
A. O. Smoot of Provo and wife, President
J.T. D. McAllister of St. George, President
Angus M. Cannon and daughter:
	Presiding Bishop W. B. Preston and wife
Bishop Robert T. Burton and wife, Bishop
John R. Winder, Elder Joseph Horne and
wife, Mesdames S. J. Cannon, Zina D. H.
Young, B. W. Smith, E. B. Wells, Carlie
Y. Cannon, P. P. Jennings, M. M. Barratt
and quite a number of relatives whose
names are not mentioned here. The day
was also the anniversary of the birth of
Sister Emma Woodruff, who shared with
her husband the honors of this happy
celebration.
	The house was tastefully fitted up for the
occasion, flowers in profusion, lovely as a
dream, the gifts of dear and valued friends,
the tables were handsomely decorated with
the graceful smilax and flowers, and at each
plate a card,bearing the name of the person
with an original motto and the signature of the
President himself all in his own hand writ-
ing, which made a pretty souvenir of the
occasion. The dinner was sumptuous and
the sociability of the old-time friends was
most enjoyable.
	During the evening some impressive
speeches were made by the brethren Pres-
dent Lorenzo Snow taking the lead, his
tribute to the President was tender and
eloquent. President Joseph F. Smith in his
characteristic earnest and lofty style al-
luded to President Woodruff's position, his
remarkable life, his sterling integrity and
unbounded zeal and implicit faith, and dwelt

[Column 2]
upon his noble example and the great hold
he had upon the hearts of the Latter-day
Saints. President Snow gave in his remarks
some incidents of their missionary experi-
ences quite touching that had been recalled by
the inscription upon the card presented to
him. Apostle Moses Thatcher also paid a
glowing tribute of appreciation and love to
the reverend host and all seemed to vie with
each other in expressions of love and esteem.
	The President responded in his usual af-
fectionate and gentle manner and gave some
reminiscences of the past that were very
interesting. He also gave in his child-like
but prophetic way some vivid glimpses of
the future that can never be forgotten by
those present.
	It was a most characteristic gathering of
some of the tried and faithful ones, under
particularly pleasant circumstances, and one
could scarcely help contrasting such an occa-
sion with the troublous time of adversity
and hardship of the past, and acknowledg-
ing the hand of the Lord in blessing Israel
with prosperity.
	President Woodruff may his days be
multiplied and his blessings increase more
and more as the years roll on and his soul
be satisfied in the love of the people.


ELIZABETH HOWARD.

	MRS. ELIZABETH HOWARD who depart-
ed this life on March 12th, of this year was
one of the most prominent women in the
Church and one of the most useful; her loss
will be deeply felt by all those engaged in
public duties and especially engaged in the
organizations of women. Mrs. Howard's
death occurred at the residence of Mrs.
Mary Ann Hunter of Grantsville, Tooele
County where she had gone to attend the
Quarterly Conference of the Relief Society,
the Y. L. M. I. A., and the Primary
Associations of that Stake of Zion. She
had enjoyed this last mission very much in
indeed and so expressed herself over and
over again to the sisters, shaking hands with
the sisters and bidding them farewell in the
most affectionate manner and saying, "her
work was done and she was going home,”
meaning she was coming home to Salt Lake
and certainly could not have had any other
thought, although her words seem to have
been significant. 
	In personality and in manner Mrs. How-
ard was one of the most charming and
agreeable women we have ever met. As a 
friend and companion in all places and at
all times, she was always the same pleasant
obliging true and loving sister in her labors
and work, whether in prosperity, or adver-
sity, in journeyings and times of trial and
hardship for the Saints. Her friends will never
forget her cordial warm hearedness and
buoyancy of spirit that was like a ray of
sunshine wherever she went. In times of
sickness she would go and administer com-
fort and consolation,and such sympathy and
help as it is possible to give when one has
the most intense desire to alleviate suffering
and sorrow. We can never erase from
memory her last visit to this office, the day
before she left the City upon her last mis-
sion to the sisters.
	Elizabeth Howard's maiden name was
Anderson, her parents were Robert and
Lucretia Anderson, and she was born at
Carlow, Carlow county, Ireland, July 12,
1823. Mrs. Howard's father was a reform-
er, a man of means and influence in his
country, and suggested several govern-

[Column 2]
mental and social innovations that were
afterwards adopted by the government and
the people. Her parents were Presbyteri-
ans, and she was brought up strictly in that
faith. She was married to Wm. Howard,
the eldest son of Scott and Catharine How-
ard, June 9. 1841, In 1851 she heard of 
the Gospel and embraced it and came to
America in 1853 with her husband and
family, arriving in Utah in September of
the same year, residing the first few years
in the thirteenth ward in this city. 
When the Relief Society was organized 
in Big Cottonwood she was chosen secre-
tary, which office she filled until she ac-
companied her husband on a mission to
England in 1868. During her sojourn in
Great Britain she was frequently called up-
on to speak upon the principles of the Gos-
pel and subjects of that nature. Divines
and men of learning found her quite equal
to answer them on every point, and her
part of the mission had often been spoken
of as very creditable and important, for it
was at a time when women had scarcely
been heard to speak publicly on our faith
except at home. 
When President Brigham Young about
twenty-four or twenty-five years ago called
upon the women of Zion to go out as
missionaries among the women in the
several Stakes of Zion, Mrs. Howard was
one of the first to act in this capacity, and
from that time she has been diligent in
season and out of season in all kinds of
weather, no matter how hard the journey
or how rough the roads, she always went
with the same cheerful, good spirit and
seemed particularly blest in the labors that
fell to her to perform.
	In 1871 Mrs. Howard was chosen
counselor to Mrs. M. Isabella Horne in the
General Retrenchment Association, in place
of Mrs. M. A. Smoot, who had moved to
Provo; soon after she was elected president
of the Relief Society of Big Cottonwood
ward, but resigned a few years ago on ac-
count of other duties. When the Relief
Society of Salt Lake stake was organized
Mrs. Howard was appointed secretary,
which position she held at the time of her
demise.
	When the Deseret Hospital was establish-
ed in May 1882, Mrs. Howard was appoint-
ed Chairman of the Visiting Committee and
was very efficient in that work. At the 
time of the reorganization of the Board of
Directors April 1884, Mrs. Howard was
elected Assistant Secretary and Treasurer,
of the Deseret Hospital which office she oc-
cupied at the time of her decrease.
Mrs. Howard was for one year, from
October, 1891, to October 1892, president
of the Woman's Suffrage association of
Salt Lake county. She has traveled very 
extensively in the interest of woman's
work from the time this sort of missionary
work commenced, and was a very sincere
and earnest laborer in all these important
directions. She was an impressive and
entertaining speaker, had an excellent
voice and was never at a loss for words,and
wherever she went she was heartily
welcomed and infused an element of cheer-
fulness by her buoyant spirits and whole-
souled manner.
	The Howard home at Big Cottonwood
has been for years a gathering place for old
and young on all sorts of festive occasions,
Mrs. Howard being a charming and genial
hostess, young people and old people shared
equally in her hospitality, in fact she was a
universal favorite.


Mrs. Howard was the mother of ten
children, eight of whom survive her, five
sons and three daughters, over seventy
grandchildren and two or three great grand-
children she also leaves two sisters to
mourn her loss, which will be severely felt
by them, as she was a most affectionate
and devoted mother, sister, friend and
counselor. Mrs. Howard was a woman
of magnificent presence, brilliant, witty,
winning and attractive, she will be greatly
missed among the visiting sisters, for she
was always on hand to perform the duties
assigned to her, undertaking the most
arduous journeys in all kinds of weather.
Blessed be her memory forevermore!
	The funeral of Mrs. Howard was held in
the Assembly Hall in this City, the hall
was beautifully draped in white, the casket
was white, and everything bespoke purity,
emblematic of the life upon which her
spirit had entered.
	On the stand were a number of ladies
her associates and friends, Mesdames Z. D.
H. Young, M. I. Horne, B. W. Smith, J.
S. Richards, E. B. Wells.  President
Angus M. Cannon presided, Presidents J.
F. Smith, F. D. Richards, J. T. D McAllister
J. E. Taylor and C. W. Penrose, Bishop O.
F. Whitney, Bishop Halliday, of American
Fork, also Bishop D. B. Brinton of Big
Cottonwood Ward where Mrs. Howard
had resided for many years were upon the
stand.  The mourners were seated directly
in front and near the casket which contain-
ed the mortal remains of the one so dearly
beloved by them all.
	The exercises opened with the hymn,
	"O my Father thou that dwellest,"
by the Tabernacle Choir, prayer by Presi-
dent Mc'Allister singing again, the old
hymn from Pope's ode entitled "The Dying
Christian,"
	"Vital spark of heavenly flame,
	Quite, Oh! quit this mortal frame,"
After the music ceased President Joseph F.
Smith delivered an appropriate discourse,
dwelling upon the glorious hopes of the
Resurrection which the Gospel opens to the
minds of the Latter day Saints, and paying
a glowing tribute to the virtues of the
deceased in whose honor the people had
assembled.
	The other speakers were Mrs. M. Isabella
Horne President of the Relief Society of
Salt Lake Stake of which organization Mrs.
Howard was Secretary, Mrs. Z. D. H.
Young General President of the Relief
Society throughout the Church and her
Counselors Bathsheba W. Smith and Jane S.
Richards who each spoke in terms of ap-
preciation and of love and praise of the
dear one just taken away in the midst of
her labors. Bishop Brinton made a few ex-
cellent remarks also Bishop Halliday who
had been an intimate friend in a brotherly
sense and who was much affected in parting
from her, his words found voice in every
heart and his meed of praise was very ten-
der and emotional.
	President Angus M. Cannon made the
closing address in which he congratulated
Sister Howard and those to whom she was
connected, and exhorted her children to
emulate her noble example and never
swerve from the path which she had trod,
gave good advice and spoke eloquently of
her virtues and lovely attributes of charact-
er. The hymn,
	"Unveil they bosom faithful tomb."
was sung to the, "Dead march in Saul"
benediction was pronounced by Apostle F.
D. Richards.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


The day was very unfavorable but many
carriages followed the hearse to the
cemetery.
	The pall bearers were her sons and son-in
-law and one grandson. The floral tributes
were very beautiful, one lovely pillow of
white lilies with the word "Rest" in violets,
was given by the Relief Society as a loving
memento, and another equally lovely by
the Woman Suffrage Association. There
were many other offerings of flowers, one
handsome bouquet of Calla Lilies one of the
most exquisite roses and a sheaf of wheat
with other very handsome pieces. Sister
Howard's name will ever be held in fond
remembrance and in reverence by those
associated with her in various labors in the
Church, and though we know she has pas-
sed from death unto life, yet we miss her
presence here, the congenial, intelligent
companionship, the ever joyous counte-
nance, the cordial warmth of greeting the
sweetness of her disposition, and the many
innumerable good qualities that shone so
brightly to gladden the lives of others; but
she has gone and we must be satisfied to
bow in humble submission, and acknowledge
His hand who doeth all things well.


SOLILIQUY.

[On beholding the remains of our beloved and
widely esteemed friend the late Elizabeth
Howard.]
MY lov'd congenial friend and art thou dead?
	And shall we hear thy cheery voice no more,
Has thy endearing Spirit home-ward sped;
Or has thy last "Good-bye" indeed been said,
	Can the companionship of years be o'er?
So long thy staunch affection's strengthen'd me
How could my heart, do less than cling to thee?
Oh! do mine eyes hehold thee stretch'd and low,
	Who lately was so full of vigorous life, 
And buoyancy, that had to overflow,
And sympathies that set our hearts aglow,
	And kindly wit, and sterling virtues rife?
Where is the winning smile, the gladsome grace
The cordial soul, that beautified thy face?
My friend I call thee, yet in truth I ought-
	To know thou wert the friend of many more;
With such compassion was thy bosom fraught-
So many joys and griefs to thee were brought-
	Thy generous nature—was an open door;
Within thine ample heart, was always space—
For numerous friends, to have a resting place.
Nor can we sense, how much we’ll miss thee yet;
	This sudden stroke, we scarcely comprehend,
And fain we would awhile our loss forget—
In deference to thine orphan’d ones regret—
	Who mourn, their mother, counselor,
	 and friend!
Oh! that we could some healing balm impart—
To strengthen or to soothe, each sadden’d heart.
Methinks if I could hear thy kindly voice,
	That to thy children thou would’st bid me say
“Let not your hearts be troubled,” but r ejoice,
Death sent a messenger,so swift and choice,
	And painlessly your mother passd away:
And instantly on her enraptur’d sight—
Hurst the supernal regions of delight.
A happy change, (my friend) it was for thee,
	Yea, blest are all who over death prevail.
But ’tis the nature of humanity—
To mourn the absent lov’d ones specially,
	And long to lift the intervening veil,
That most effectually conceals from view
Departed ones, the loving and the true.
Patience becomes us all who yet remain,
	Who still must bear life’s burdens day by day,
Who needs must struggle, seemingly in vain


And often brook unmerited disdain.
	Striving withal to walk the narrow way
Hoping through much endurance to be free,
And o’er the grave to gain the victory.
Well might we envy all who’ve “fought the fight.
	And kept the faith” and laid their bodies down
Who’ve pass’d the pearly gates and earn’d the
	right—
To be arrayed in regal robes of white
	And wear triumphantly the lustrous crown, 
And swell the hallelujahs of the blest
Whose works do follow them to realms of rest
But very soon, yea, in a little while,
	The span allotted us will be complete, 
Oh! fit us Lord, by each uplifting trial—
To enter in where nothing can defile
	To courts eternal, ‘Where the old friends meet”
And where forever freed from death’s embrace,
Congenial souls commingle face to face.
EMILY H. WOODMANSEE


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE near approach of Conference and
the dedication of the Temple in this city is
bringing an influx of visitors from the
several Stakes of Zion, and some from other
parts of the country as well, and the greet-
ings of old friends and acquaintances is
beginning to be quite noticable already on
the streets. Business places seem to be
putting on a sort of gala appearance and no
doubt a more perceptible change will come
later on,
	THE work for the World’s Fair is in part
coming to a close; some shipments of goods
have been made and others are nearly
ready. The women engaged in this matter
of exhibits have been diligent in season
and out of season in encouraging and urg-
ing those who were making articles to be as
expeditious as possible in finishing off, so
that Utah may not be behind, in making a
showing equal to its capacity in this regard.
There are some fine articles of fancy work
etc, and in industrial art some excellent
work has been done, and in the way of
woman’s work in charities and organizations,
no Territory of its size and numbers can
make a better or more thorough showing.
Time will prove whether the women of
Utah excel in any of the arts or professions.
The silk portieres for the Woman’s Build-
ing will assuredly be a very great credit to
the women of the Territory.
	THE representation of women from this
Territory at the Woman’s Congress is likely
to be quite large considering the remoteness
of the locality. The National Wom-
an’s Relief Society and the Young Ladies'
National M. I. A, will each hold a meeting
on the 19th of May in one of the Depart-
ment Halls assigned to them in the Art
Building outside the Fair grounds. Of the
Congress proper considerable has been pub-
lished but of the part our organizations are
to take, or who are going down to attend
the Woman’s Congress very little has yet
been said. We feel safe however in antici-
pating a strong phalanx of bright intelli-
gent and able representatives.
	THE sisters ought not to forget how
essential it is for them to sustain the Expo-
nent. The need of it has been widely felt
during the last year while we have been
looking up on all matters pertaining to
woman’s work and mission, and the writer
has been strongly reminded of the words of
President Brigham Young, “tell the sisters
to take the Exponent and preserve it, for it


will be a record of their history” and so it is
in a great degree. All officers of the Relief
Society and all the members of the Society
who can, should take it and read it and
keep it by them for reference, and if one is
not able to do so alone two or three can put
the means together, but there are very few
certainly who cannot afford one dollar per
year, to help maintain an organ devoted es-
pecially to the elevation of woman kind and
humanity everywhere.
	WE learned with deep regret of the death
of Miss Mary E. Seymour, which occurred
the last week in March, after a four days
illness from pneumouia. For the last five
years Miss Seymour has been the editor and
publisher of the Business Woman's Jour-
nal which was lately merged into the
American Woman's Journal, published by
a stock company. Miss Seymour was a
member of the American Society of Authors
and of the Woman’s Press Club.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WORLD'S CONGRESS OF WOMEN.
Under the Auspices of the Woman's
	Branch of the World's Congress Aux-
	liary, Chicago, May 15-22, 1893.

	THE world’s great advance towarde a
higher wisdom than that which estimates
value merely by material gain, is interest-
ingly exemplified in the mere fact that
superb provision is made for the presentation
of the intellectual and moral progress of
mankind, side by side with its material
improvement at the approaching Columbian
Exposition.
	Over 100 Congresses for the discussion of
the vital subjects affecting human welfare
are to be held in conjunction with the Ex-
position, the first beginning May 15th, and
continuing one week, the others to follow
in successive weeks until the close of the
Fair in October. In order to make these
Congresses most easily accessible to the gen-
eral public, the managers of this depart-
ment of the Columbian Exposition have
wisely arranged that they shall be held, not
within the Fair grounds, but near the center
of the city, in the beautiful new Art Palace
erected for this purpose on the lake front,
close to the principal hotels. Into this new
temple of learning every one that thirsteth
for knowledge of the best thought of our
day on the problems of the period may,
without money and without price, enter
freely, and hear these questions discussed
by able speakers.
	The opening Congress, May 15 to 22,will
probably attract the largest convocation of
women to be found in Chicago during any
one week of the Fair. For at this time is
to be held the Memorial Congress devoted
to the unique purpose of setting forth the
intellectual, moral and material progress of
the women of the world from the discovery
of America in 1492, down to the present
time. To this special Congress have been
invited women of eminence from every
portion of the civilized world, many of
whom have already signified their intention
to be present and participate. Here will be
gathered together, from the four quarters of
the globe those most noted for their interest
in Education, Industry, Art and Literature,
Philanthropy and Charity, Moral and Social
Reform, Religion, Science and Philosophy.
Civil Law and Government. In two halls
of the Art Palace (with seating capacity of
2,500 each) programs of equal interest will

[Column 2]
be carried on simultaneously, dealing with
the above subjects in a popular manner,
while, in fifteen other halls of the building,
specialists will find provision for the dis-
cussion of their favorite topics in greater
detail.
	The closing day of this Congress, Sunday
May 21, will witness that which is, possibly,
the most striking proof of the wonderful
change in woman’s position manifested
within the last half century—her entrance
into the pulpit as ordained preacher, and
into the field of music as composer. Sun-
day morning the religious services will be
conducted by a body of regularly ordained
women ministers from all denominations
which recognize women in this capacity, the
sermon to be delivered by the Rev. Anna
Howard Shaw, of the Methodist Protestant
Church, one of the most eloquent speakers
in the United States. In the evening a
sacred concert, with music composed, ren-
dered and conducted by women, will close
the exercises of the day and week.
	Verily, may every woman’s heart swell
with joyful anticipations, as she considers
this signal proof that at last even a portion
of the ruling sex is ready to say to her,
“Well done good and faithful servant; thou
hast been faithful over a few things, I will
make thee ruler over many;’’ for while
woman’s exclusion from the pulpit con-
tinued every message she uttered in the in-
terests of morality suffered a depreciation
in popular esteem similar to that of coin
deliberately debased by the Government.
Woman in the pulpit at this Chicago Con-
gress is an omen of the new day of univer-
sal justice, when mankind shall at last agree
that ability, and not sex, shall decide what
is proper to be done by each human being
and not for women alone, but for the whole
race will that new day be glorious, for it
shall mark the opening of the epoch of the
hghest human development.
	THE unique feature of the coming.
World’s Fair, that which chiefly dis-
tinguishes it from all its predecessors, is the
arrangement for a series of Congresses in
which the moral and intellectual side of the
world’s progress may be set forth in con-
junction with the exposition of its material
advance.
	Near the centre of the city, conveniently
close to the principal hotels, a beautiful
building has been erected by the co-opera-
tion of the Directory of the World’s Fair,
the City of Chicago, and the Chicago Art
Institute, for the express purpose of pro-
viding suitable quarters for these Congress-
es, but which is also planned to remain as a
permanent, memorial Art Palace for the
city. This building, with an entrance on
Michigan Avenue and Adams Street, com-
prises two large halls, each with seating
capacity of twenty five hundred, and twenty
smaller halls, seating from two hundred to
seven hundred each, which together furnish
perfect appointments for the conduct of the
various Congresses and Conferences to be
convened between May 15th, and Novem-
ber 1st.
	While in each of these more than one
hundred Congresses (devoted to the dis-
cussion of Education, Industry, Art and
Literature, Philanthropy and Charity, Mor-
al and Social Reform, Religion, Science and
Philosophy, Civil Law and Government)
women will participate according to the
degree in which they have taken part in the
interest or activity indicated by the title of
the Congress, one special Congress has been

[Column 3]
arranged, to be called the World’s Congress
of Representative women, in which these
great subjects will be viewed from a differ-
ent standpoint, its object being to discuss 
not the subject in itself, but the relation of
the women of the world to the subject.
	With this object in view, invitations have
been sent to every national association of
women in the United States, Canada,
England, Ireland, Scotland, France, Ger-
many, Belgium, Norway, Sweden, Den-
mark, and Finland, and to individual wo-
men of eminence in Italy, Greece, Spain,
Poland, Russia, China, Japan, South
America, New Zealand, Austria, Holland,
Turkey, Iceland, Mexico, Switzerland, and
India to send representatives to this special
Congress.
	Two kinds of programs have been plan-
ned, one presenting the topics to be con-
sidered in a method calculated to interest
general audiences, the other arranged with
reference to specialists who wish to con-
sider the same topics with greater detail
than would be possible for large miscellane-
ous gatherings. The intention is to make
this (which is the first of the series, opening
May 15th, and continuing one week) a
Memorial Congress, and to have its papers
and addresses chronicle what the Congress
itself will celebrate, namely, the progress
of woman since the discovery of this conti-
nent in 1492. Each country represented
in the Congress is expected to send reports
showing woman’s advance in that country
along the various lines above mentioned,
setting forth her present educational oppor-
tunities, and the agencies through which
these opportunities have been, received, also
the objects now sought in each country by
its leaders.
	Eight rooms in the Art Palace will be set
aside for the use of the eight General De-
partments into which the work of the Con-
gress is divided (one room being assigned-
to each department,) and in these rooms
will be conducted a constant series of,
special conferences of an informal
character, which will enable women en-
gaged in the same work to become acquaint-
ed with one another, and also with the
various methods by which the work is pro-
secuted in different parts of the world.
	In the other seven halls meetings of the
various associations represented in the
Advisory Council of the Congress will be
held, each association to have one day for ,
its own special use, arranging its own pro- ‘
gram, providing its own speakers, and with
its own officers presiding. Those who
have already completed their preparations
and requested the use of a hall are as fol-
lows: The Woman’s National Indian As-
sociation, Association of Collegiate Alumnae,
American Society of Authors, Woman’s
Baptist Home Mission Society, General
Federation of Women’s Clubs, National
Woman’s Christian Temperance Union,
Woman’s Republican Association of the
United States, National Council of Women,
Woman’s Western Unitarian Conference,
Columbian Housekeepers’ Association,
National American Woman Suffrage As-
sociation, Woman’s Foreign Missionary
Society of the Reformed Church in the
United States, International Council of
Women, Non-Partisan National Women’s
Christian Temperance Union, Young
Ladies’ Mutual Improvement Association
Wimodaughsis, International Kindergarten
Union, Woman’s National Relief Corps,
Daughters of the American Revolution,
Order of thh Eastern Star, Loyal Women


[Column 1]
of American Liberty, National Alliance of
Unitarian and other Liberal Christian Wo-
men, International Young Women’s Chris-
tian Women, International Young Wo-
men’s Christian Association, National Wo-
man’s Relief Society, National Christian
League for the Promotion of Social Purity,
Woman’s National Alliance.
	One hall will be used each day of the
week for the especial purpose of hearing
and discussing reports of organizations.
	Nine meetings may thus be in progress
simultaneously, two in main hall and seven
in the department halls, giving a wide
variety of choice to the thousands who will
assemble in Chicago during this most in-
teresting week.
	Monday will be devoted principally to
the opening of the Congress, the addresses
of welcome, introduction of foreign dele-
gates and their responses in behalf of their
respective countries. Tuesday morning ad-
dresses in the large halls will be on the
Civil and Social Evolution of Woman and
the Administrative Ability of Woman, in
the evening on Woman the New Factor in
Economies, the Industrial Position of
Woman in Germany, and the Industrial
Position of Woman in France; Wednesday,
the Ethics of Dress, Woman on the Stage,
the New Womanhood of Italy, our debt to
Zurich and to Brussells, and Woman in the
Pulpit; Thursday, Woman as a Financier,
Woman in Municipal Government, the Po-
litical Future of Woman, the Solidarity of
Human Interests; Friday, Woman’s War
for Peace, Woman as a Social Leader, the
Professions and Trades underlying the
Home, Woman in Science, Woman’s place
in the Republic of Letters; Saturday, both
sessions will be devoted to the presentation
of the work of women in organizations,
considered in respect to Religion, Philan-
thropy, Education, Moral Reform, and
Political Liberty, with a general discussion
of the economy of woman’s forces through
organization. Sunday morning there will
be a religious service entirely conducted by
women ordained as ministers, representing
every denomination which has admitted
women to the ministry, and the Congress
will close Sunday night with a sacred con-
cert with music composed, rendered, and
conducted by women, and a closing ad-
dress on the influence of Columbian Ex-
position in woman’s development.
	Amongst the noted foreigners who will
attend this Congress are Madame Isabelle
Bogelot of France, Treasurer of the Inter-
national Council of Women; Miss Kirstine
Frederiksen of Copenhagen, Recording
Secretary of the International Counsil of
Women and President of Dansk Kvindesam-
fund; Lady Henry Somerset, the Countess
of Aberdeen, Mrs. Alice Cliff Scatcherd,
Mrs. Cobdenvenwin, Lady Harberton, Mrs.
Earnest Hart, Mrs. Florence Fenwick
Miller, and Mrs. Ormiston Chant, of Eng-
land; Miss Meri Toppelius and Mrs. Ebba
Nordqvist, representing the two national
associations of Finland; Dr. Marie Popelin,
of Brussells; Madame Fanny Zampini
Salazar, of Italy; Miss Hulda Lundin,
Principal of the Sloyd, of Stockholm; Miss
Augusta Fenger, representing Dansk
Kvindesamfund, Mrs. Nico Beck Meyer,
representing de Samlede Kvindeforeningen,
and Mrs. Olesen, representing the
Kvindelig Fremskridts Forening, of Den-
mark; Dr. Ella Mensch, of Darmstadt,
representing a Frauenverein, Fraulein
Augusta Forster, of Kassel, and Frau Hed-
wig Heyl, of Berlin; Miss Helen McKerlie,
[Column 2]
of Ireland; Mrs. Edith J. Archibald, Dr.
Emily Howard Stowe, Mrs. Elizabeth M.
Tilley, Mrs. Judge Foster, Mrs. Mary
McDonnell, Mrs. Dr. E. A. Blakely, Mrs.
May L. Gibbs, Dr. Augusta Stowe Gullen,
Miss Madge Robertson, of Canada.
	From our own country will gather a dis-
tinguished host representing every phase of
woman’s thought and work: Mrs. Potter
Palmer, Mrs. Chas. Henrotin, Julia Ward
Howe, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Helen
Gardener, Annie Jenness Miller, Susan B.
Anthony, Frances E. Willard, Augusta
Cooper Bristol, Amelia S. Quinton, Mrs. J.
N. Crouse Charlotte Emerson Brown,
Lorraine J. Pitkin, Charlotte Perkins
Stetson, Rev. Anna Howard Shaw, Alice
Freeman Palmer, M. Louise Thomas,
Ursula Gestefeld, Sarah B. Cooper,
Margaret Ray Wickins, Hattie A. Robinson,
Clara Barton, Mrs. W. D. Cabell, Lucy
Stone, Mary A. Livermore, Frances E. W.
Harper, Dr. Mary Putman Jacobi,Emmeline
B. Wells, Mrs. John Wilkinson, Lillie
Devereux Blake, Elizabeth B. Grannis.
	RACHEL FOSTER AVERY Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
﻿	QUEEN ELIZABETH.

	QUEEN ELIZABETH was the daughter of
Henry VIII. and his second wife Anne
Boleyn: and was born Sept. 7th, 1533; her
family name was Tudor her mother was a
very beautiful woman with whom her
father fell in love while she was lady in
waiting to the queen, his wife, whom he
divorced in order to marry his new love.
Her reign, however, was of short duration.
When Elizabeth was scarcely three years
of age, her father, in a fit of jealousy,
ordered her beheaded. At the time of
Elizabeth’s birth Henry was very much in
love with her mother but was, of course,
disappointed that she was not a boy, but as
all the realm looked upon her as heir to the
throne he decided to give her a grand
Christening accordingly she was wrapped in
royal robes of purple and ermine with a very
long train which was borne by Lords and
Ladies, who deemed this a very great
privilege. In the splendid procession
which attended her to church, were four
Lords who walked two on either side hold-
ing over her a magnificent canopy. The
ceremony was performed by Cranmer the
Archbishop of Canterbury, On her return
she was followed by four additional persons
of rank bearing costly and beautiful presents
by her several Godfathers and Godmothers.
Nor was this all her father had an act of
parliament passed, solemnly recognizing and
confirming her claim as heir to the crown
and the title of Princess of Wales was
formally confer upon her when these things
were done in order to further his political
schemes, he offered her to the King of
France as a wife for one of his sons, which
offer was rejected. After the death of her
mother little Elizabeth had a residence
assigned her at a place called Hunsdon and
was put under the charge of a governess
named Lady Bryan who, in a letter to one
of the Lords, stated that his little charge
was lacking in raiment and those things
which her position demanded. When
Elizabeth was fourteen years old her father
died leaving two heirs between her and the
throne. A young brother, son of a third
wife, who died at the age of sixteen and an
elder sister, daughter of Catherine the first
wife, who died at the age of sixteen and an
elder sisterm daughter of Catherine the first
wife a great council of sixteen persons of
the highest rank governed in Edward’s

[Column 2]
name until his death when Mary ascended
the throne being at that time about thirty-
five years old, she is described as a cold
austere maiden lady forbidding in her ap-
pearance and manners, and a very decided
Catholic. She had not been queen but a
very short time before she had Lady Jane
Grey, her husband and father and some-
others beheaded. Lady Jane was a very
lovable woman the very personification of
beauty genius, piety and virtue she had very
much against her own mind, by the advice
of her relatives and friends, set up a claim
to the throne and reigned ten days, after
which time she very gladly relinquished to
Mary. For this she lost her life in her
seventeenth year. Elizabeth had taken
sides with her sister in the contest and was
very properly permitted to share her
triumph, so far as taking part in the honors
and festivities usual on such occassions.
	No sooner had Mary entered upon her
duties as queen than she had many suitors
for her hand in marriage among them was
Philip a Prince of Spain and a great grand-
son of Ferdinand and Isabella. Mary was
very much pleased with this offer as his
prospects were very brilliant, he was also
very much younger than herself, being
about twenty-seven years of age, at this time
the people of England were generally of the
Protestant faith and consequently quite un-
easy about Mary’s contemplated marriage,
as Philip was a very stern and severe man
as well as a very ardent Catholic. This
with the knowledge that she had very
quietly but efficiently been forming measures
to bring back her government and nation
to the Catholic faith did not tend to their
peace of mind after they had worked so
faithfully to place her on the throne.
Mary’s ministers advised her to be a very
careful and circumspect and suspend opera-
tions, against the Protestant Church for a
time which she did, but the alarm had gone
forth and the House of Commons appointed
a committee of twenty members and sent
them with a humble petition to the queen
that she would not marry a foreigner; it
was of no avail however, she was very
much displeased and dissolved Parliament.
Philip’s father hearing of the obstacles in
the way borrowed money to the amount
of two million dollars which his son was to
return, as soon as he got posession of Eng-
land, and sent to buy up influential men
of the realm to favor the marriage; he also
sent a very magnificent embassy to Lon-
don which with the large bribe seemed to
silence the opposition. After a great many
stipulations guarding the rights of Mary
and England to satisfy the English people
the wedding was allowed to take place.
Mary seems to have been very nervous and
unhappy for fear Philip should be disap-
pointed in her beauty and would fail to love
her; in fact she complained that he had not
written to her and been as attentive as she
thought he ought to be, to a prospective
bride that was bringing him a kingdom for
a dowry, but woman like she thought her
troubles would be all over when she once
got him all for herself. When that was
accomplished she was happy for a short
time only. Philip left her and went back
to Spain in a year after, and did not return
but once and that was to compel her to join
with him in a war against France. This
war proved very disastrous for England.
The town of Calaison the French side of the
channel a very great stronghold had been in
the posession of the English for two hun-
dred years and they were very proud of it.


This was lost and they were very indignant
about it and murmured at their queen
whom they said was very energetic in im-
prisoning and burning her own subjects,
but could not cope with their enemies
abroad.
	Mary sank beneath this blow she said she
should die, and if after death they should
examine her body they would find Calais
like a load upon her heart. She died on
the 17th, of November 1558, to the un-
speakable relief of the greater portion of
her subjects she had reigned a little more
than five years and during that time had
scantioned the most cruel and fiendish
deeds of murder; the acts which had
abolished the Papal supremacy were repealed;
this was an indication to the Protestants
that there were dark days ahead. It is said
not to mention those who perished in dun-
geons and those who expatriated them-
selves no less than three hundred, of whom
one hundred were women and children,
were burned alive at the stake; the first
martyrs in this persecution were two emi-
nent Divines of the Reformed Church, Hoop-
er Bishop of Gloucster and Rogers a Clergy-
man of Essex, Archbishop Cramner Ridley,
Bishop of London, Latimer, Bishop of
Worcester soon followed after. Many of
the Catholic prelates were exercised in
their behalf, and even Philip himself was
moved to pity at such deeds of infamy.
She left no heirs, indeed I do not think she
deserved any but she earned for herself an
unenviable fame, and the dreadful name of
Bloody Mary.
	In the meantime Elizabeth had suffered
no little annoyance at the hands of her sister;
although they tried to keep up the appear-
ance of friendship they were natural
enemies it could not be otherwise owing to
the circumstances attending their mother's
marriages wherin it could not be decided
which was the legal wife, and they could
not remain friends any great length of time,
besides Mary was jealous of Elizabeth, she
was afraid the malcontents would urge her
claims to the crown, and she felt that she
must improvise some way of getting her
into her power, she therefore wrote her a
letter stating that she was not safe and had
better come to her for protection; but
Elizabeth did not want to go and moreover
she was sick and her attendants sent a
certificate to the effect that she was not
able to travel.
[To be continued.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	EVERY cup that holds self-sacrifice in it
is a holy grail.—Dr. Lyman Abbott.
	THERE are a thousand hacking at the
branches of evil to one who is striking at
the root.— Thoreau.
	THE measure of our sincerity, and there-
fore of the respect of men, is the amount
of health and wealth we will hazard in de-
fence of our rights.—Emerson.
	A WOMAN may vote as a stockholder up-
on a railroad from one end of the country
to the other. But if she sells her stock and
buys a house with the money, she has no
voice in the laying out of the road before
her door, which her house is taxed to keep
and pay for.—George William Curtis.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	LADY BROOKE has a Shakespearian
garden at Warwick Castle, for which she is


by degrees gathering every flower and shrub
named by the bard. The Prince of Wales,
it is said, planted the first specimen.
	MISS ANNE WHITNEY has completed a
fine portrait bust of Miss Frances E. Wil-
lard. 
	MISS ELEANOR E. ARCHER is rate col-
lector at Bradford, england. She is said
to be the first woman to hold that office.
	MRS. VICTORIA G. WHITNEY has been
admitted to practice in the St. Louis (Mo.)
Court of Appeals. She is said to be the
first woman to gain entrance to this court,
though Miss Phoebe Couzins was admitted
to practice in the Circuit Court of St. Louis
many years ago.
	ELIZABETH A. REED, author of "Hin-
du Literature," has lately completed a new
work, "Persian Literature, Ancient and
Modern." Mrs. Reed has just been elected
to the "International Congress of Oriental-
ists," and is the only American woman in
the full membership of the Philosophical
Society of Great Britain. Her forthcoming
work traces the growth and development of
the literature of Persia from its orgin in
Babylonia about 4,000 years ago.-Ex.
	THE CITY COUNCIL of Toronto has just
voted 14 to 8 to petition the Ontario Leg-
islature for the extension to married women
of the municipal suffrage which single wo-
men and widows have had for years in
Canada.
	SANTA FE, New Mexico, has a woman
on the Board of School Examiners. She
is a teacher of recognized ability.
	IN the Fine Arts exhibit at the World's
Fair will appear three pictures from Wind-
sor Castle, loaned by Queen Victoria, and
several from the Prince of Wales' collec-
tion.


EXPRESSION OF SORROW.

(To the Editor of the Woman's Exponent.)
GRANTSVILLE MARCH 1893.

	DEAR SISTER:—You can have no idea of
the deep feeling of sorrow that the death of
Sister Howard has caused here. We had a
most excellent Conference, I never was at a
better, it was so humble yet so full of the
spirit of God. Sisters Howard and Ed-
dington as you know were here, they
seemed so full of the spirit of teaching and
the Sisters so willing to be taught that it
was truly “A feast of fat things.” There
were two Relief Society meetings one
Teachers meeting, two Young Ladies
meetings and the Primary, and all well
attended.
	Sister Howard in one of the meetings
referred to the quickness with which the
cholera took its victims, and a wish that she
might die suddenly, she little thought she
would not leave Grantsville alive, but have
to be taken in a casket. To have looked at
her we who have seen her often here, she
looked so handsome and in better health
then ever before, and more full of the
spirit of God. Remember I who write this,
knowingly never flatter either the living or
the dead, but write this in all soberness
and truth. As you know she was taken
with the paralytic stroke that ended her life
at the residence of President M. A.
Huuter, only a few minutes before the
attack she was laughing and joking with
Sisters Hunter and Eddington, Sister


Hunter saw her fall and thought she had
fainted, but alas! she was struck by death,
this was between 9 and 10 o’clock on Satur-
day morning the eleventh; they had been
talking and arranging for their return to
S. L. City. Every thing was done that
could be done, but all in vain, Sisters
Anderson and Louisa Hale feel sure that
some of the time between her being taken
and her death, she was conscious for they
asked her to press their hands in answer to
thei r questions, and she did so. She did
not open her eyes or speak after she fell and
died about two o’clock on Sunday morning
the twelfth. She will rest in peace for her
work is done. Her son and grandaughter
arrived at 8 p.m. Saturday and were with
her from that time until she was taken
away, truly followed by very, very sorrow-
ful feelings by both brethren and sisters,
	M.A. House Secretary.


DOCTOR MATTIE HUGHES CANNON,
,	Office: II South, First West Street.
Office practice for Diseases of Women from 2
			until 4 p. m.

	Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
		    Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
	ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
	      AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
		 POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
	No. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET,
  			  Opp. Grant Bros. Stables.

		MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p.m.

R.K. THOMAS
26,28,30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R.K. THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and [---]
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Order[---]
[illegible line]
DAVID JAMES, Box. 306. Salt Lake City

	DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP, will commence
her summer class in Obstitrics and Nursing
on Monday May 1st 1893.
	Office and residence 34 East, 5th South
Telephone 383.


F. D Richards
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.145

Vol. 21. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1893 No. 19.


CONTENTS:
	Family Relations II.—S. W. Richards. In
Rural England—A. Story. Woman Suffrage at
the World’s Fair—Rachel Foster Avery. English
Women—Rachel Foster Avery. The Spirit of
Success—E. H. Lyon. Personal Reminiscences
- Gatha. U. W. P. Club—Ella W. Hyde. S. L.
Co. W. S. A.—Ella W. Hyde. Queen Elizabeth.
Notes and News. In Memoriam—F. S. Dell.
A Tribute of Respect. Obituaries.
	EDITORIAL:—The Silk Industry. Editorial
Notes. The Utah Room—Camelia.
	POETRY:—The Rain Drop—D. C. Johnson.
Katie E. Merrill’s Grave—Alofa.


THE RAIN DROP.

Musing I sat at my window one day,
Gazing at the rain, as it pattered away
In pearly drops ’gainst, my window pane,
Of whither it goes and from whence it came.
I ’spied a drop, like a glistening pearl,
That fell from its mates in their giddy whirl; 
And I said, “pretty one, why do you roam?
Whence come ye and where is your home ?”
The drop thus replied, with faltering tone;
"I'm a waif, wandering from zone to zone;
To moisten dry earth and freshen its green,
I gladden and nourish all things terrene.
I came from the north where the storm kings
	reign,
Where Waden and Thor, with mythical train,
Do traverse in pomp with their antlered steeds,
O’er ice hills and snow as the hurricane speeds.
One day glittering on a glacier bright,
With gleesome heart and spirits light,
I, was caught, borne aloft by a thunder cloud,
That ’veloped me round in its sable shroud.
’Twas there I met with the numerous train, 
Like myself, gather’d where the Thunderers 
	reign,
Afar we were driven o’er sea and lands,
Hastening o’er the wilds and trackless sands.
I have watered the plants on Arabia’s plain,
Have nurtured the roots of the golden grain,
Replenished the brook and sparkling rills,
That flow through the vales, from a thousand
	hills.
I have mingled with floods, been raised, again,
'Descended full oft’ in the cheery rain,
Helped aloft once more by the sun’s warm light,
Then softly falling in the dews of night.
Lastly came I to your valley so free,
Caught and fell by a leaf on the tree,
From thence, dashed ’gainst, your window-pane
When the bright sun shines I’ll be off again.
	D. C. Johnson.


[Column1]
FAMILY RELATION.
 II.

[S.W. RICHARDS.]
	THE family relation involves the right of
choice, and to whom the right belongs.
	The right to choose implies a free-will;
agency, and independence; and upon the

[Column 2]
exercise of this right is based the responsi-
bility of all human acts, and by which they
become entitled to rewards or punishments.
	It is written, there are existing three in-
dependent principles, the spirit of God; the
spirit of man, and that of the Devil. Man
in his independent relation to the others has
the right to choose which he will serve—
to which he will yield submission. By the
one he is influenced to the good and right,
by the other he is enticed to the evil and
the wrong. Upon the choice he makes,
either happiness or misery ensues. The
consequences of that choice cannot be
avoided.
	Man, the lesser, by submitting to God
the greater has claim upon His support,
protection and that genial companionship
that contributes to his happiness, and makes
him a sharer of all the good that can be
bestowed by the strong upon the weak.
Like considerations apply in the relation of
the sexes.
	In either case the consequences of the
choice made effects both the present and the
future, reaching into Eternity for its final
adjustment and realization.
	This right of choice is of comparatively
like importance in establishing family re-
lations, as in the higher relation; and simi-
lar rules may be observed, to secure like
advantages, whether of a temporary or per-
petual mature.
	First the woman being the lesser, has the
right of choice as to who shall be her pro-
tector and to whom she will give her
allegiance. This right and exercise of
choice is what creates the obligation she is
under to the person chosen who may accept
the union desired. Of this right, above all
others, she should not be deprived. By per-
suasion she may be restrained from exercis-
ing it to her injury.
	The union consummated, rights involving
duties are secured by the man, and obliga-
tions are accepted by the woman.
	The important question now is, what are
these rights, duties and obligations? A
summary answer may be found in Scripture
language, “As Christ is the head of the
Church, so is man the head of the wo-
man.”
	Christ has promised that all those who
will live in unison with him and labor to
build up his kingdom, shall be made equal
with him, as he claims the right to be
equal with his Father, by laboring to
build up his Father’s Kingdom. The wife
has a right to claim like consideration from
her. husband.
	As the spirit of Christ, a spirit of love
and kindness, is given to and is exercised
toward those who are one with him; so the
wife has the right to demand and receive
like generous and ever-loving consideration
from her chosen head. All the promises
Christ has made to his followers, of peace,
joy and spiritual development, the husband
should use his best endeavors to secure to a
devoted wife. The husband must be
righteous, just and merciful in all his re-
quirements, to entitle him to the confidence
and love of his house hold.  He is only en-
titled to the love and regard of those who are

[Column 3]
in his care, as he shall love and honor Christ
in whose care he is. Indeed, a man must not
only be a Christian, but should have priest-
hood—the right to preside over the destiny
of others, before entering upon the duties
which he would owe to wife and family.
The family relation is in all respects an or-
dinance of Heaven, and can only be honor-
ed by carefully observing the order and
laws of its creation, and appointments.
	Only by the inspiration of God’s love
can any man fully appreciate what he owes
to a virtuous and devoted wife. "She is
more precious than rubies." But what of
the wife! This question of choice may be
a delicate one to a sensitive young lady as
most of them are; but as it has to be made
sooner or later, the question arises, by what
rules should she be governed in making it?
The nature of the covenant entered into
determines this. It is an eternal covenant
made in view of securing eternal blessings,
everlasting honor, glory and dominion.
These cannot be obtained through any un-
holy alliance or association. It is written,
“be ye not unequally yoked together with
unbelievers.”
	For a young lady to give herself to any
one who could not secure to her the object
of that union, would certainly be a very
great mistake. Nay, more, a most lament-
able calamity. While she is one with, she
cannot rise above the condition of excellence
in the one to whose destiny she is allied.
	The woman may be all that was designed
she should be, an help-meet for the man,
but the unappreciative man may not be
willing to receive help from her and by
her, all along the pathway to the exal-
tations and the lives that are glorified;
but however willing he may be, his ability
to do for her can only extend so far as he
has knowledge of the divine purpose, ac-
quired by divine inspiration. To obtain
this he must live by the laws of God; must
be a saint to be entitled to the blessings of
Abraham in the family of the faithful.
	It is most essential then, that on the
part of the woman, her choice be wisely
made; that she be able to discover elements,
attributes and desires, in the one to whom
she gives herself and love, able and willing
to secure to her and her increase, all that
God has promised to bestow upon those
who love Him.
	This family relation growing out of the
union of the sexes is of God for and to His
glory, and only by and under the influence
of His spirit and authority can its anticipated
results be realized.
	Would to God that more of the young
men in Zion were worthy of that fair
maiden’s love waiting to be theirs in the
new and everlasting covenant.
	In the home thus sanctified by the
presence of a bride, pure and lovely in her
sphere, as the Bride the Lamb’s wife must
be to her coming Bridegroom, Motherhood
is acquired; and by her, the increase in that
home in lives of innocence, purity and
loveliness, through which is to be developed
under that mother’s guidance, virtues of
faith, hope and charity; the same eternal
principles that find an abiding home in


heaven from whence the spirit-child has
come. An evidence of heaven’s approval
of such a place as home made holy by a
mother’s sacred presence and devotion.
	Home influence exerted and directed by a
mother’s love, is an abiding one, with those
who listen to her gentle teachings. It
reaches to old age, and brings the wanderer
back; it takes deep root down in the soul
where no evil can reach to entirely eradicate
it. It is an inheritance a mother bequeathes
to her children, and through them to gen-
erations yet unborn; a legacy more precious
than fine gold. Such a wife and mother
the husband and father delights to honor,
the heavens smile upon her with admiration,
and angels are the companions of her home
as ministering messengers, to the cherubs
in her care.
	Husband and wife, parents and children
are the prominent relations that constitute
the family and from which others grow.
	The family soon grow into a community,
which soon develops into society, and
society when properly organized becomes
the State, and as such demands recognition
everywhere. The State enacts laws for the
protection and well being of its citizens and
the perpetuity of its dominion. Judges
administer the laws, and justice by judg-
ment will maintain the rights of all; and if
righteousness is the foundation of all this
development, as determined by the law of
God who governs the universe and all things
therein, it becomes a part and parcel of our
Father’s dominion. He is from everlasting
to everlasting, and is King of Kings; or,
otherwise expressed, is King ever many
kings all of whom are reigning over their
own, and in their own right as kings and 
priests unto God. Their kingdoms also
shall be everlasting, and their dominions
shall never pass away.
	All this is to be realized in the family
relation, and can spring from no other
source. It is God’s plan, is of no human
device; as man’s organization perfectly
adapted to its consummation fully proves to
every intelligent being engaged in so grand 
a creative world. This wonderful adaptation
of the family for the object in view is suf-
ficient evidence of its divine origin.
	The foundation of kingdoms is thus laid
under the mutual guidance of father and
mother and the power of its endurance will
depend entirely upon the spiritual element
in which that foundation is laid. The
temporal, that which is of the earth, must
pass away; that which is spiritual and is from
heaven, must remain, and be held account-
able for the choice made while in this pro-
bation; if good, then peace and glory the
reward; if evil, then sorrow and misery; as
the justice and mercy of the father of the
spirits of all flesh shall determine.
	Our Father’s words and works are for
the “immortality and eternal life of man.’’
Man is the child of God, partaking of his 
spiritual and eternal nature, and how fear-
ful the responsibility of those to whom they
are entrusted for their education and 
development; that they may be able to 
dwell in His presence and abide His glory.
All such will have power to do for their
children, what God the Father has done for
His. The consummation of sublimest
thought—of heaven’s grand design.


WOMANS EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XXX
LADY WALTON'S visit to Italy was a
pleasure in almost every particular. She

[Column 2]
had a valuable companion, a woman of wit
and of tact, and she herself was bright and
of a charming personality. Her years
added dignity to her position and manner,
and left to herself, she had the self-poise
that gave her prestige wherever she went.
There was no hesitation about her as in the
days when Lord Walton was living to
scrutinize her every look and action. Be-
sides the bitter experience of the last few
years had so subdued her former imperious-
ness that her good qualities were more
noticable.
	The news she recieved from England was
not exactly satisfactory, but Maitland put
everything in the best light possible and
his letters were her chief source of informa-
tion. The young heir of the Walton's was
growing finely, the mother was regaining
her usual health again, and Dr. Bland and
family pursuing the even tenor of their
way. Word has been received form Clair
and Mr. Harrison who were enthusiastic in
regard to the country, the tropical fruits etc.
but no word came of their return to England.
	Lady Anna Walton as soon as she was
able to go out, rode over to her counsin's and
from thence to the old castle to which she
seemed now more fondly attached than ever
before. The romance of her courtship and
secret interviews with Maitland (her lower)
were sweeter in her memory than the
realities of her everyday life with the hus-
band. She loved her babe in her own
dreamy way, but she only saw him now and
then when the nurse thought proper, when
she had asked for him at first, she was re-
minded that she was not equal to such an
exertion, and her maternal affection had not
been strengthened by the constant care and
hourly association of mother  and child, as
in the case of women who nurse their own
infants. She noticed on her first visit to
Dr. Bland's how very tender and solicitous
her cousin was with her little boy, and re-
marked languidly, "Cousin mine, how I
wish I could be allowed to have my baby to
myself as you have, I should be so much
happier, I am so lonely and Maitland is
never at home, my fancy work don't inter-
est me now and Clair is away, and there is
no music, and I am too weak to play by
myself, besides when I touch the harp, my
heart is too full-and-" here Lady Anna
broke down with a sob and a sigh, too much
overcome to proceed further. Her cousin
was deeply affected and scarcely knew
what she ought to say—but simply replied,
"that is one of the disadvantages of titled
people, there are so many things that people
enjoy that would not be 'correct' in society
where you move; I would rather be associated
with my babe than have the distinction of
nobility of rank!”
	“Sometimes I think so,” replied Lady
Walton, “but I am not even privileged to
think for myself." though her sobs almost
choked her utterance. Mrs. Bland was
careful not to say too much on this subject,
she would have been glad to take her to
her bosom and caress her, as one would a
child, but she dared not lest it would have
caused still further excitement, and she
knew how necessary it was that she should
be kept as calm as possible, for her condition
was such as to cause one who saw it plainly
great anxiety. Maitland knew very little
about women, or how to care for one so
fragile as his young wife; his mother was
comparatively strong and he had known
very little sickness, in fact his life had been
a very idle and useless one, and now in his

[Column 3]
manhood he was not prepared for any strug-
gle with difficulties, or any emergency, but
shrank from all that was in the least of an
unpleasant nature.
	At the time of this interview with Lady
Walton, Mrs. Bland was in her own morn-
ing room, with baby amusing himself while
she industriously plied her needle, and in-
deed the room and its inmates were a pretty
picture of serenity and content. It was a
plain room with only simple furniture, for 
the doctor was only well to do and his wife
had too much thought of the futre to be
extravagant in her home. The windows
looked towards the garden and the sweet
perfume of the flowers was in the air, and 
the scene was pleasant; it was a chilly
morning rather, and there was a bright fire
in the grate, and a brighter smile on the
face of mother and child.
	Lady Anna sat thinking of the spirit of 
happiness that rested upon her cousin and
wondered at her own discontent, her cousin
half divining her thoughts said, "Anna
what would make life happier, is there any-
thing I can do for you or my husband?"
Meeting no response she added, "would
you like Clair to come back or your uncle
Robert?" Mrs. Bland was always cautious
in mentioning the name of Rob Harrison,
it gave her an indescriblable thrill, she
could not account for. Lady Anna replied
"no cousin Jane there is nothing I can ask
for that you or anyone can give me, some-
times I think I would like to go away to
another country, where no one would know
me, and I could be natural and not have to
dress and be gay, and go out and meet
people that criticize my every word and
look. I should like to be with you and
baby and the doctor, and uncle Robert and
Clair and my baby and Maitland always, 
on an island or away from the rest of the
world.”
	“I’m afraid that can never be cousin, we
would have to mingle with some society,
and it might not be as agreeable as that you
have now, people cannot have things their
own way in this world, it seems to me we
ought to make the best of our surroundings
and not murmur against our fate. Don't
you remember before your marriage you
thought if only you and Maitland could be
united, all sorrow would be at an end, and
now that things have turned out so much
more favorable than we anticipated, and
yet you are less satisfied than ever before.”
	‘Well cousin Jane, let us go away from
England, would the doctor consent to it?
Do you think if I could persuade Maitland,
it might be better for him, new scenes, and
things that might interest him and awaken
new thoughts turning his mind in a differ-
ent direction?”
	“To your first question whether the doc-
tor would consent, I cannot possibly tell,
having never entertained such an idea, but
I will speak of it, inadvertently at first and
see what his mind is; I don't think he is at
all fond of new places and I fear he would
dislike a new country still more. ’’
	‘Ah me, I wish I knew what would be
the best course to pursue to ensure peace of
mind if not real happiness. Come cousin
Jane let us go over to the old place, it may
be it will bring back pleasant recollections,
I should like to see some of the rooms
again, since they have been remodeled and
re-furnished. My mother's room where she
died, where I was born, when I lived there
I had none of this sentiment; it has come
with my experience, these last few months,


O,I have grown ages older, how different
everything seems, you who are so much
older appear even younger than I do.”
After their conversation Mrs. Bland and
her cousin drove over to the Castle, and
went through some of the rooms, but Lady
Anna was so much affected that her cousin
hurried her away lest she should give way
to excessive weeping.
	The garden the shady walks and corners,
the old lodge where she had often waited
under the great sighing elms, for her sweet-
heart in the days gone by that were so
sweet to her now seemed more to her than
people, she loved them more and in fact
they seemed more companionable. These
haunts were very dear to both these young
women for many reasons. Recollections
that were unpleasant even, were almost
hallowed by time; though the time had been
short so much had occurred that it
seemed as Lady Anna had remarked, that
ages had transpired since they were all at
home in the old place.
	The only thing considered afterwards in
regard to leaving England, was whether
Lady Walton Sen. would consent to going
with them, or their leaving her and the estate
for her to manage. Lady Anna felt re-
lieved in having had this talk with her
cousin, and her mind seemed made up to
leave her native land and go among new
scenes and society.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


KATIE E. MERRILL’S GRAVE.

'Tis a lonely spot yet I love it well—
There’s a sad, sweet charm—there’s a quiet spel
Round the place, as if angels loiter near
Whose whisperings I in fancy hear—
And they speak of a soul unstained and pure,
Of her rest in heaven which is now secure.
They tell of a daughter gentle, kind,
Truthful and earnest of heart and mind;
Of a sister loving, generous, mild,
With the trusting faith of a little child,
Of a wife so virtuous, chaste and true—
With a heart as pure as heaven’s blue.
They are speaking now of the form that came
At the hour of death her love to claim;
How she raised her large round eyes and smiled
With a mother’s joy in her only child,
Then bidding her dear friends all farewell,
How she went with her babe above to dwell.
While I list to the voices low and sweet,
I gaze on the green mound at my feet—
Where palm-trees ever cast their shade,
Where flowers spring and bloom and fade,
Where the ocean’s low, sad voice is heard,
As also the wail of the crying bird—
And I know that the words I hear are said
Of the sleeper there the honored dead.
As if by some strong impulse led—
For the words thereon I have often read—
I walk to the slab of white, once more
And read the dear names o’er and o’er
Of Katie, as well as her baby boy
Who filled life’s parting hour with joy.
Tis a sacred spot, this little mound
Where Katie rests in the cold, cold ground
it is watched and kept with loving care,
And I often in silence ponder there
And the angels are whispering:“All is well
In the courts on high do their spirits dwell.”
	ALOFA.
FAGALII SAMOA, March 10th, 1893.


[Column 1]

	WOMAN SUFFRAGE AT THE
		WORLD'S FAIR.

THE National-American Suffrage head-

[Column 2]
quarters at the Chicago Fair will be located
in the Woman's Building within the Fair
grounds. Here, from May to November,
some one of a numerous committee will be
found in daily attendance, to receive visitors,
answer questions, distribute literature, and
arrange for subscription to native and
foreign suffrage periodicals. But all meet-
ings of a public character will be held in the
new Art Institute not within the Fair
grounds, but on Adams St. and Michigan
Ave. near the center of the city; admission
to all Congresses, Conferences etc., being
free.
	Public representation for the work of
Suffrage Associations will be given in two
of the series of Congresses which are to be
conducted in the Art Institute, the first
being the "World's Congress of Representa-
tive Women," assembled from May 15th, to
22nd, the second being the "Governmental
Congress" which will convene during a
week in August.
	On the main Program of each of these
two Congresses, Woman Suffrage appears
simply as one phase of the world's interests,
briefly set forth by its representatives, but
in one of the Department Halls of the Art
Institute on one day during each Congress,
a special program will be presented giving
the subject to the public with greater detail.
Thus in May on the main program of the
World's Congress of Representative women,
Elizabeth Cady Stanton will speak on the
subject of the "Civil and Social Evolution
of Women," and in another session, Susan
B. Anthony will address the audience on
"Organization Among Women Considered
in Respect to Civil Liberty," while an of-
ficially appointed representative of the
National-American Suffrage Association,
Mrs. Lillie Devereux Blake, will participate
in the discussion following.
	But in the Suffrage Department Congress,
to be held for one day in a Hall of the Art
Institute simultaneously with the World's
Congress of Representative Women, the en-
tire program will be filled by woman suf-
fragists, the officers of Suffrage Associations
presiding. The following speakers have
been invited to speak on appointed topics:
Lady Henry Somerset on "Woman's Grow-
ing Sense of Responsibility towards her
Country," the Countess of Aberdeen on
"Domestic Legislation," Mrs. Cobden Un-
win on "Woman's Legitimate and Illegiti-
mate Influence on Politics," Lucy Stone on
a theme of her own selection, Clara Bewick
Colby on "Wyoming," Helen H. Gardner
on "Woman as an Annex," Laura M. Johns
on "Woman and the Municipality,"
	Carrie Lane Chapman on the "Evolution
of Woman Suffrage,,' Mademoiselle Marie
Popelin, of Brussells, on the "Struggle of
Professional Women in Belgium," Mrs. F.
Fenwick Miller on the "Woman as a
Factor in the Future of Government."
Sessions, morning and evening, being ar-
ranged for the representation of this pro-
gram.
	Prominent speakers have also been in-
vited for the Governmental Congress in
August, full particulars of which will be
published as the time approaches.
	RACHEL FOSTER AVERY,
	Ch. Columbian Exposition Committee
for the N. A. W. S. A.


THE Illinois Senate, on April 6, passed
the bill giving township suffrage to women,
by a vote of 27 to 10.


ENGLISH WOMEN.

	[In the coming World's Congress of Rep-
resentative Women.]
	A NOLABLE array of English Women will
appear as representatives of English thought
and work in the May Congress at Chicago.
The Countess of Aberdeen, whose interest-
ing paper in the Nineteenth Century has
recently aroused wide attention, is a dele-
gate from the London society for the Pro-
motion of Women to Local Governing 
Bodies, and will speak on Women in Munic- 
pal Politics. Mrs. Cobden Unwin, of
the Liberal Federation, represents the
general suffrage work.
	Lady Harberton of the national Dress
Society will give her views on rational dress,
which, it is needless to say, is not the dress
of to-day. Miss Helen Taylor, a step-
daughter of John Stuart Mills, is to speak
on Social Morals, Mrs. Ormiston Chant, the
Hon. Mrs. Waller, Mrs. Alice Cliff
Scatcherd, the eloquent Florence Fenwick
Miller, Helen McKerlie, Mrs. Parkhurst,
Miss Margaret Windeyer, and Lady Henry
Somerset are also included in the program.
Lady Henry Somerset and Miss Florence
Balgarnie are deeply interested in the suc-
cess of this Congress, and send weekly re-
ports of the constantly increasing number
of English associations, who will take part
in the Mid-May Chicago Meeting.
Societies, medical, political, literary, re-
ligious, moral, educational, and purely
philanthropic, have already signified their
intention of sending either delegates or
written reports, sixteen of them to be repre-
sented in person. 
	RACHEL FOSTER AVERY Sec.


THE SECRET OF SUCCESS.

	THE most important element of success
is economy; economy of time and economy
of money. By economy of money I do
not mean penuriousness, but, to be careful
of one’s means, not to be extravagant or
wasteful. The greatest recipe for succeed-
ing in the world, then, is to work much
and spend little. If this course be followed,
success must come, unless, some unwise
speculation, or accident occur against which
no human foresight could provide, such as
sickness, death, fire or other visitation of
Providence should arrest the progress on-
ward; but, in the ordinary course of human
affairs success will be sure to follow econ-
omy, which is the condition by which pros-
perity must be earned. Worldly success,
however coveted should only be desirable
so far as it contributes happiness to our-
selves and those around us. The man or
woman whatever be their fame or fortune,
or intelligence who can treat lightly
another’s woe, who are not bound to their
fellow creatures by the magic tie of sympa-
thy, deserves, and must obtain the con-
tempt of human kind. Upon him or her
the choice gifts of nature are thrown away.
True happiness they cannot know, their
lives are as a dream a failure and they will
go down to the grave “Unwept, unhonored
and unsung.” Such a fate is not to be en-
vied, and let us all who are anxious for
success in this life also in the life beyond,
remember that success is nothing without
happiness.
	E. H. LYON.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelta), - Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months;
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z.C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLlSHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter.
	
SALT LAKE CITY, - - APRIL 1ST, 1893.


[Column 1]
THE SILK INDUSTRY

	THE coming World’s Fair has awakened
serious thought among people in regard to
home manufactures and industry; local and
general. In Utah the spirit of these in-
fluences is at work, and we trust it may
prove beneficial to the people generally,
and the entire Territory.
	The silk industry which has been lan-
guishing for years past, for lack of  means
and enthusiasm on the subject, is coming
forward now, and it does seem as if a
creditable enterprise of this kind and one
that would be lucrative too ought to grow
out of it.
	For many years the women of our
Church, and especially of the Relief Society
lead out in this direction, and hundreds and
thousands of milberry trees were planted, and
cocoons raised and some considerable silk
reeled and many small articles made, be-
sides dress goods, shawls etc.  In fact the
history of sericulture from the first step in
this direction would be an interesting sub-
ject just now.
	In an editorial in the Deseret News pub-
lished a few days ago some facts were given
that we trust the people and especially the
women of the Territory will take note
of; There was also an editorial article in
the EXPONENT of December 15, ult, giving
some data, and interesting facts, which those
interested in the production of silk should
certainly read for their own benefit; as
sericulture is an occupation particularly
adapted to women and children. Days
gone by the difficulty was, no market for
cocoons and no machinery suitable for work-
ing the native silk. The price paid by the
Eastern markets for cocoons was not enough
to pay the people for their work and the
actual expense; and many who had been
quite energetic in their efforts lost heart and
turned their efforts in other directions.
	Every one who was acquainted with
President Brigham Young knows how very
anxious he was to have the silk industry
prosper. He sent to France in 1856 for the
best quality of Mulberry seed, and planted
an area of land with the mulberry which
was known until recently as the Mulberry
Farm.
	Now that Congress has made a liberal
appropriation of money to promote the silk
enterprise and make an exhibit, and placed
it at the disposal or under the direction of
Mrs. Palmer President of the Board of
Lady Managers of the Columbian Exposi-
tion, Mrs. Salisbury one of the Vice
Presidents associated with Mrs. Palmer and

[Column 2]
also the commissioner for Utah appreciat-
ing the efforts made here in the silk indus-
try, interceded for an apportionment for
Utah out of the fund Congress had pro-
vided, and succeeded in getting something
liberal to assist in making a handsome
exhibit. As soon as she felt comparatively
sure of what could be done, she appointed a
committee to attend to the collecting of ex-
hibits. This committee was Mrs. C. W.
Bennett, President, Mrs. E. B. Wells Vice
President, Mrs. C. E. Allen, and Mrs. Zina
D. H. Young and Mrs. Margaret A. Caine,
Secretary. All the cocoons, raw or spun
silk, and all manufactured articles that can
be obtained are wanted to make this dis-
play in the Woman’s Building. It is ex-
pected that the whole process of the work
from the silk worms upward to the spinning
and weaving will be shown by Utah
women; it is also desirable to get the prim-
tive wheels, reels, and hand looms and so on
that have been used in this sort of work
and have them exhibited. All articles that
can be purchased or borrowed should be
sent to the Headquarters of the committee
in the Constitution Building, Rooms 227
and 228, in the care of the Secretary, Mrs.
Caine. The cocoons that are for sale must
be examined by an expert, and a fair cash
price will be paid for them. Other articles of
course willbe paid for at a reasonable price.
The money appropriated will be handled
judiciously, but it is the desire of the com-
mittee to arouse an interest in this valu-
able home production and no pains will be
spared to accomplish this object.
	The sisters in various parts of the Terri-
tory who have been so discouraged will now
have an opportunity to dispose of their
cocoons and be stimulated to new efforts in
this laudable undertaking.
	It is indeed the woman’s age for in all
branches of work where women can show
skill or ingenuity, or knowledge of any
employment, it is called into active exer-
cises because of the advantages afforded by
the World’s Fair.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

    OUR readers and patrons will see that we
have made a change in the location of  the
office by the Editors and Publishers  stand-
ing  notice  in  our columns. The  house
where  we  were previously  located  was a
more desirable  locality in every respect ex-
cept its outside appearance, but one change
involves  another—arid that  that  property   is
too valuable for the size of the house, had
it even   been a good   and  substantial  one.
The Constitution  Building is  well   known
to the people  and we  feel  that  the  sisters
and ladies  generally   will  not  have far  to
climb, and Rooms (227 and 228) being  in
the second story  and an elevator running
all day and until 12 o’clock at night.    The
distance  from the   Printing  office  is  the
greatest  hardship,  involving  as it does so
much  going  back  and  forth, however we
must make the best of it, and if the only pros-
perity would come through the medium of
more  numerous  subscribers,  it   would not
be so difficult to make everything easier and
there  would  be a  very  material difference
in many ways for the better. 
     THERE are  quite a number of ladies go-
ing from Utah to attend the Woman’s Con-
gress of Representative women in Chicago,
which opens May 15th and lasts one whole
week, and   the  National   Woman’s  Relief

[Column 2]
Society and Young Ladies National Mutual
Improvement  Association will each  hold a
meeting in Department  Hall  No.  VII.
(7) in the Art Institute on the 19th of May,
when the entire  program  will be filled by
members of these respective organizations,
N. W. R. S. morning session and Y. L. N.
M. I. A. evening. The full  program of
exercises will  be given in the next issue af
the paper.
	THE    Headquarters  of   the   National
Woman’s  Relief   Society will  hereafter be
in    this  office,    President,   Zina   D.   H.
Young   will be  here at some  hours in the
day  during  the  week,  up   to the   time of
leaving for  Chicago   which  will  probably
be the 10th of  May.
	THE UTAH ROOM:—Fine  needle  work is
a most beautiful art, and how  forcibly  this
thought is brought to mind while gazing at
the many articles the  women of  Utah have
been preparing for their room  in  the Utah
building at Chicago.    It would take a great
many pages to describe   them  all   for there
are so many lunch cloths, doilies, and scarfs
in  exquisite  drawn   work,   there   are so
many pieces of rich and  rare embroidery,
there are such wonderful   combinations of
historic silks into beautiful spreads, that the
women of  Utah are  surprising  themselves
by their perfection in the industrial arts.
    One can scarcely imagine  anything more
exquisite than the pale cream  silk  curtains
embroidered in sego lilies, under  which all
who  visit the Woman’s Building will  pass,
and imagine  the  surprise,   when told  that
they are made of  Utah silk.   Then in  the
Utah  building   will   hang   most  elegant
portiers  made  of Utah  broad-cloth,  lined
with  Utah  silk  and  most  artistically and
elaborately embroidered;  the Utah flower—
the sego  lily, again  the design.    Passing
under the curtains—a gift from the ladies
of  Salt  Lake  Co.—one may  rest on the
beautiful chairs and sofa that the Davis Co.
ladies gave this  pretty room.   This furni-
ture is most unique,  upholstered in Utah
silk of sage green color and beautifully em-
broidered, the frame is of Utah  wood with
a white and gold finish and  here again the
sego lily plays  the prominent  part in  the
decoration.   Reclining in these luxurious
chairs one may note the many other hand-
some furnishings of the room on the floors
lie fine rugs,  made  from  the  skins of “the
mountain lion, a gift from the  Summit Co.
ladies.   From the mantle may be heard the
regular ticking of the clock, elegantly en-
cased in Utah onyx and among the beautiful
drapings and furnishings we must  not  fail
to   note  the  handsome  silk flag, and  the
wonderful inlaid  table  all gifts from Utah
Co.  It seems  almost  a  pity  to  begin  to
mention or describe individual pieces among
so many rare and costly things, for  beauti-
ful pictures adorn  the  walls  and  rest  on
easels, and fine carved  work,  dainty drap-
ing, luxurious cushions, delicate  decorated
china and hundreds of artistic,  unique and
handsome articles  tend to  make  the  room
elegant  and  interesting,  but  let  us  not
hastily pass the books and papers Utah wo-
men  have  contributed  towards  towards  the  em-
bellishment of this  room for  here we may
find their written thoughts  the minds re-
flection.   Among  these  lies the  beautiful
volume,Songs and Flowers of the Wasatch,
choice selections  from  the women poets of
Utah,  appropriately  approprately  illustrated  in  water
colors.   Certainly  Utah  Women will have
just cause for pride as they view the display


of their talent and handwork in this
delightful room.
	The time approaches rapidly and before
many days hundreds of Utah people will be
wending their way to Chicago, among them
many women who have been, toiling night
and day that Utah’s display might be worthy
of her people. May their journey be all
that they desire pleasant, interesting, in-
structive, and enjoyable in the extreme.
	CAMELIA.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
PERSONAL REMINISCENCES.

	My husband cut a large heap of tender
twigs, placed them evenly, then placed a
Buffalo robe over them which, with plenty
of covering made a comfortable bed. The
fresh air, laden with the odor of the pines,
the gentle swaying of the trees was all
novel and delightful to me and while the
rest of the camp slumbered restfully, my
mind wandered away to my home, far
across the seas, and to the loved ones there,
but joy and thankfulness mingled lovingly
with the sadness. Not then, or ever since,
have I regretted the ties I had found which
were so different from the majority of man-
kind. One of the first things my husband
did, was to overhaul our supplies, take out
the seed grain, then carefully estimate the
probable length of time before harvest,
How many were depending upon him for
sustenance, ration them accordingly. He
concluded that if we had our wheat ground
into unbolted flour, we could have from
half to three quarters of a pound a day to
each person. This might seem ample, but
when it is remembered that we had no
vegetables, milk or butter, and hungry
winter coming on, it was but short allow-
ance, to eke out our bread, a steer, the best
one we had was killed; and there was not
fat enough in the whole creature to fry the
liver. This was put down in salt, (we had
plenty of that) so you see what our fare
was, plenty of lean corned beef and a little
Graham bread, what little groceries we had
left at the end of our journey were re-
served for sickness.
	We held meetings, visited each other and
were comparatively happy and contented,
and the winter passed away. As early as
possible in the spring the brethren made
preparations to put in garden, and plant
corn, most of the wheat had been sown in
the fall. About the 18th of March the
equinoctial storm set in, and it began to
rain, and it kept on raining for over a week.
We were told that there was no rain to
speak of in this country, so, in building
our roofs, they were made nearly flat.
They were constructed of—first poles put
as closely together as possible, then dried
grass and weeds, then a good layer of
earth, which made a warm roof, but alas!
not impervious to rain. So we had rain
out of doors and a mud-fall in the house,
for the continued fall of rain so thoroughly
soaked the earth over head that the down-
pour was mud, good-honest-mud. You can
imagine the condition our beds and bed-
ding were in, as long as there was a dry
spot, we would move it there, but after a
while there was no dry spot. One of the
family had a babe nine days old, she stayed
in bed till it was soaked through, then she
was placed in a chair before the fire with an
umbrella over her head. Sometimes the
rain would cease, and the sun show his
face, and we would put out the bedding to
dry but alas; it would cloud up again and

[Column 2]
the weather would resume its normal con-
dition All were not quite as bad off as we
were, for some had better roofs, and one
man had built a gabled roof, and I can
assure you he had plenty of company while
the storm lasted.
	But there came a change the sun’s genial
rays smiled on us once more, and soon
everything was made comfortable, and no
one of us sustained colds or injury in any
way.
	By this time our provisions began to get
very short. We were working very hard
to help get in the corn of which my hus-
band put in a large area. He had built a
dugout in the side of the bank close to the
land he was planting and tending, I some-
times drove the oxen while he held the
plow (I had learned how the year before) I
dropped corn, while he covered it, cooked
our thistle greens, and often walked a mile
over plowed ground to get a pail of butter-
milk from some more fortunate, but kind
neighbor to wash down the greens.
	Thus we toiled and starved through our
labors. I well remember one afternoon
several of the family with my husband
going to look at our wheat. It was a
sickening sight, every stalk was bowed
down by large crickets. We looked on it
in silence a little while, then my husband
said:— “Here is our wheat covered with
devouring crickets, we are a thousand miles
from supplies, unless God interposes,
starvation stares us in the face.” Yet even
in this great strait, not even a doubt
entered our minds, for we firmly believed
in, and trusted that God, who had kept and
preserved us hitherto. And every one has
heard how the gulls came, gorged them-
selves with the crickets, flew to the lake,
disgorged themselves, came again, till the
plague was stayed, and we harvested more
wheat to the acre than seemed possible
under the circumstances, for we had not
then learned to irrigate.
	My first babe was born on the 7th day of
July 1848. Through my illness (which
was protracted) I had no bread, for the
last few days I had managed to make a pan-
cake, but I had got to the last ounce of
flour. The midwife kindly brought me a
piece of bread, and, some of my neighbors,
whose kindness I shall never forget,
brought me a little of their little. On the
Monday, the 10th, my husband went early
in the morning sickle in hand, cut a little
wheat here and there where it had ripened,
threshed it with flail, and wagon cover,
took it on his shoulder to Brother Neff’s
mill, had it ground, brought it home, had
a big loaf baked in a bake kettle, and the
whole family sat down to dinner in the
room where I was, so that I might enjoy it
with them. Just think, what a feast! The
first time in nine months we had all the
bread we could eat. My husband remarked
while eating dinner, “This is the first time
since I came into the church that I have
reaped what I have sowed, I have either
gone on missions, and left my labors for
others to reap the benefits, or I have been
driven by mobs from my possessions.”
	Though I had not had scarcely a full en-
joyable meal through the nine months
previous to the birth of my babe, yet she
was a plump healthy child, with apparently
no particular craving and has always been
a rather small eater. On the 10th, of Aug.
we had what we called our "Harvest feast,’’
the brethren built a bowery and stand, and
raised a liberty pole, on which was corn
eight feet high, large sheaves of wheat,

[Column 3]
oats, barley, rye and other productions for
exhibition; we feasted on the good things
we had raised, we had bread, butter, cheese,
pastry, melons, green corn, beef and so on.
We had music, songs of praise, prayer and
thanksgiving, congratulations, speeches,
recitations and dancing; but the most grand
and impressive of all to me was, the great
and united shout of Hosanna, “Hosanna!
Hosanna! to God and the Lamb.”
	It surely was a shout of heart-felt praise
and thanks to God. Scarcely a year had
elapsed since we had arrived here in an al-
most starving condition, and now we had
plenty to eat, though we, as a family had
not raised enough wheat, we had plenty of
corn-meal. The corn we planted was a
late variety called “Missouri Shoe-peg,”
which yielded well, but did not fully ripen.
The way we used to manage when we
wanted a grist, was to spread a lot of ears
on the loose boards over head; when dried
by the heat of the fire (we had big fires on
the hearth,) the men folks would bring
down the pile, get a washtub, put a board
across for a seat, then put a sharpened spade
face downwards across the board and by
sitting down on it hold it in place, then
draw the ears along the sharp edge of the
spade. If the corn was dry, a bushel was
soon shelled, taken to mill and ground,
then sifted at home. Happy were they who
owned a seive, for several families had to
use one, and those who had none of their
own, had to borrow of their neighbor.
Our cattle had become very fat and we had
a dry cow that, when killed, yielded nearly
a hundred ponds of fat, besides the great
amount we tried out, every piece we cooked
yielded so much dripping that we had
plenty for shortening and to make our rath-
er musty corn bread very enjoyable.
	One little incident I must not forget to
mention. My shoes were worn out, and
when I wanted to join in the festivites, the
question arose as to what I should wear on
my feet; there were no stores to go to, I
could not have bought a pair of shoes for
love or money. What little people had, they
had brought with them a thousand miles,
and for their own use most decidedly.
	At last I heard of a lady who had bought
a buckskin of the Indians, of which to
make her son a pair of pants. I went to
her and asked her to sell me the pieces to
make a pair of moccassins, she said “I
have no use for money, but if you will let
me have a cravat I have seen you wear, you
can have them.” She had noticed a neck-
tie I had worn which she coveted, so I was
glad to make the exchange. I made me a
neat pair of mocassins of which I felt
very proud. I went in them to the
festivities danced my first dance in them and
felt as if I was treading on air.
	There was a song composed for the oc-
casion by Elder P. P. Pratt which touched
upon the death of our Prophet and Patriarch,
the driving from Nauvoo, the wanderings
and trials of the saints and our safe arrival
in this our mountain home. I remember a
line here and there and the last verse entire,
“Long, long have we wandered as exiles forlorn,
Without any harvest, without any home;
But Lo! in the mountains new sheep-folds appear
And a harvest of plenty to crown the glad-year.
CHORUS.
So we’ll join in the dance and we’ll join in the 
	song,
To thee, Oh! Jehovah, new praises belong;
All honor, all glory we render to thee,
For here in the mountains thy people are free.
	LAST VERSE.
Tho’ storms of commotion distress every realm,
And dire revolutions the nations o’er whelm;


Tho' Babylon trembles, and thrones cease to be,
Yet here in the mountains thy people are free.
	CHORUS.
Let us join in the dance, let us join in the song,
To thee, Oh! Jehovah, new praises belong;
All honor, all glory, we render to thee,
For here in the mountains thy people are free.
	In what I have written, I have used the
expression, "my husband" when some-
time I should have said "our husband"
for I was one of several wives, some of
them as noble women as ever lived. The 
one I traveled and drove team with was one
of my husband's wives. A better, or more
noble woman I never knew. In our travel-
ing together we sometimes took turns, she
driving one day and I the next, she had a
delicate babe, and when she drove I took
care of it, and vice versa, and through all
the vicissitudes of our life together we have
loved and respected each other greatly, and
she has always been very near and dear to
me, and her children are next to my own.
	This principle of marriage if understood
and lived rightly, does not, as many sup-
pose, develop the baser feelings common to
fallen humanity; but rather the higher and
nobler attributes. It teaches unselfishness,
that the world and all it contains was not
made for you alone; but that others have
feelings, rights and privileges as well as
you have and are just as worthy of con-
sideration. If lived prayerfully and patient-
ly it tends to purify and ennoble the heart,
expand the mind, and one to understand
and comprehend a higher life which can be
learned in no other way.
	GATHA.
	March 7th, 1893.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


U. W. P. CLUB.
	THE monthly meeting of the U. W. P.
Club convened at the EXPONENT parlor
March 22nd 1893. Prest. E. B. Wells in
the chair. Prayer was offered by Lydia D.
Alder. Roll call responded to with senti-
ments from the writings of Longfellow.
Minutes of previous meeting read and
approved. The programme was carried
out as follows. A song by Miss Pearl
Russell. Nevada V. Davis recited in a
pleasing manner, selections from favorite
American authors, Ruth M. Fox recited
an original poem entitled “My Fortieth
Year.” Interesting article on “Ignorance
and Superstition” by Phebe C. Young,
Miss Maude Pratt favored the company
with two songs the music was very much
enjoyed. The meeting was then thrown
open for members to discuss business and
express their ideas. N. V. Davis thought
the good things we had, should not be
kept to ourselves, but should be imparted
to others, our knowledge was given to
us to hold in trust. When we read
good books and get new ideas,
others should be benefitted by them.
	Mary A. Freeze related some interesting
incidents in the experience of her son-in-
law who had just returned from Samoa;
described tropical fruits and palms, Prest.
Wells said the idea of imparting what we
knew to others was a correct principle, and
one in which she firmly believed, thought
the sixth was the spiritual sense. The
subject was discussed by members, Lucy
Clark recited some verses in connection with
the subject. N. V. Davis reported what the
committee had done in reference to the
badge presented two designs to select from,
one with a Bee, and one with a Greek
Lamp, it was decided to have a gold pin


with a Greek Lamp, with U. W. P. C. in
raised letters.
	The program for April 30th was read.
Different styles of verses, N. V. Davis.
Original article or poem, Lillie T. Freeze.
Article on Woman, Ella W. Hyde. Song
and music, Gladys Woodmansee. Sketches
of Samoan Women, Mary A. Freeze.
Article on the sixth sense, L. G. Richards.
Music Mamie Freeze. Lydia D. Alder was
voted a member of the club. Benediction
was pronounced by N. V. Davis. Refresh-
ments were then served, and the usual
pleasant chat followed.
	ELLA W. HYDE, Sec. Pro Tem.


S. L. CO. W. S. A.

	THE regular monthly meeting of the
Salt Lake Co.  W. S. A. convened in the
thirteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Jan. 17,
1893.  Vice Prest.  A. W. Eardley in the
chair.  Opened by singing—“God shall
lead us on."  Prayer by M. A. Freeze,
continued by singing—“Our Country now
from thee."  Mrs. Ella W. Hyde was nomi-
nated and unanimously sustained to act as
Treasurer.  The roll was called, and the
minutes of the previous meeting were read
amended and accepted.  Mrs. C. C. R.
Wells spoke upon the subject, "Is woman
inferior to man intellectually," and handled
it in a very creditable manner reading
several extracts from different papers.
Maggie Bassett, then sang a song, entitled
"Ah! I have sighed to rest me."  Mrs. M.
Holt made a short address upon, "Woman's
Work," showed how many women could rise
above all difficulties and with their divine in-
fluence encourage all those with whom they
associate.  A reading entitled "What some
women have done in business" by Vice
Prest. E. McFarlane.  Mrs. M. A. Irvine
said my heart is in this work and I would
rather work any time than speak.  Mrs.
M. P. Silver said I feel determined to gain
all the new memberships possible, related
an interesting circumstance of how a wo-
man won the office of Justice of the Peace.
I feel that it is women that need to be
converted.  Vice Prest. E. M. Price said we
have all got to study hard before we ever
excel in many directions, in order to prove
ourselves eqnal to our fellow men.
	Mrs. Ella W. Hyde said I believe in wo-
man's suffrage and desire to do all I can to
assist the cause.  Meeting stood adjourned
until the third Tuesday in Feb.


S. L. CO. W. S. A.

	THE regular monthly meeting of the
Salt Lake Co. W. S. A. convened in the
13th Ward Assembly hall Feb. 21st 1893.
Prest.  Nellie C. Taylor in the chair.
Opened by singing "Hark the sound of
myriad voices," Prayer by Vice Prest. E.
M. Price. Singing, "Our country now
from thee-"  The roll was called, and
minutes of the previous meeting read and
approved.  Phebe C. Young made some
valuable suggestions  Prest. Taylor en-
dorsed her remarks, and also made a few
others on the same subject.] he C.
Young spoke verbally upon the subject,
"How Presidents were elected by the
Electoral College."  which was very inter-
esting and instructive.  May Talmage gave
a recitation entitled, "The Young Grey
Head."  Dr. E. S. Barney said, we are all
trying to labor for the general good, e
some of the sentiments of Harriet Beecher


Stowe, showing that woman's sphere was
to be enlarged, and she felt to make the
same assertion herself, was pleased to see
that unity was increasing in Salt Lake City,
and that the wheel of progress was rolling
on.  Vice Prest. E. M. Price read an article
she had written on the Election of Presi-
dents, continuing the subject spoken upon
by Phebe C. Young, said as suffragists we
should always be learning something politi-
cal.  We should be progressive and should
be able to understand these subjects.
Louisa K. Spencer had enjoyed very much
the things she had heard, thought we could
not learn too much pertaining to the suf-
frage question. Mary A. Bassett, Millie
Bassett and Ann E. Neal, each made a few
remarks upon suffrage.
	The President suggested the ladies read
these subjects and become posted, said
woman was an interesting study, thought
we ought to keep up with the times, prayed
God to bless us. Meeting stood adjourned
till the third Tuesday in March.
	ELLA W. HYDE, Sec. Pro, Tem.


QUEEN ELIZABETH.

	AT this time Wyatts rebellion broke out
and there were several uprisings in dif-
ferent parts of the kingdom this was the
time they tried to place Lady Jane Grey on
the throne, but Wyatt was entrapped and
taken prisoner; the made a confession in
which he implicated Elizabeth. Mary was
determined now to secure her sister, sick or
well, so she sent three commissioners with a
troop of horses and her own litter to carry
her on, in case she was unable to travel any
other way.  They arrived at Ashbridge at
ten o'clock at night. Elizabeth was very
much frightened and begged not to be
moved, but physicians testified that she
could go without danger of her life, so the
next morning she was placed upon the
litter and started for London, twenty-nine
miles away; she was now completely in
Mary's power, they traveled in great state
befitting a princess, and were four days on
the way; as they neared their destination a
great many people came out to meet her as
a token of respect which many did not at
all enjoy.
	They took Elizabeth to one of the palaces
at White Hall where she was examined, but
nothing proved against her, where upon she
was released, but there were other persons
implicated in Wyatts plot who made
charges against her, and Mary had her re-
arrested and sent to a famous palace called
Hampton Court where she was strictly
guarded.  From there she was to be taken
to the Tower of London, she sent a letter
to Mary protesting her innocence and beg-
ging to be released, the letter did no good,
she was taken down the river and compell-
ed to enter the Tower through the Traitors,
gate; Elizabeth declared she was no traitor
and would not go in that way, but she was
obliged to yield, she was kept a close prison-
er for a month, after that she was allowed
to walk in the royal apartments every day
and after awhile in the garden; when she
had been imprisoned three months she was
very much alarmed at the sound of martial
music she was afraid of being beheaded and
inquired very anxiously if the block was
still there on which Lady Jane was execut-
ed.  She was told she was to be take to a
place called Woodstock, a royal palace
forty or fifty miles to the west of London
she was very much distressed at this, not


[Column 1]
knowing what was to be done with her,
the truth was Mary dare not keep her in
the tower any longer, as a large part of the
kingdom were Protestants and she thought
if she was too harsh she might exasperate
them and it might be the cause of a new 
outbreak. 
	Elizabeth was taken to the Queen's Court
first and was met with a proposition of
marriage which Mary had been arranging,
she thought to marry her to the duke of
Savoy whose dominions were on the con-
fines of France and Switzerland and thus
be rid of her; but Elizabeth did not propose
to be dealt with in any such manner; the
height of her ambition was to be queen of
England and she preferred to be a captive
in her own land, rather than the consort of a
sovereign Duke beyond the Rhine. She
was taken to Woodstock and remained there
more than a year; at Xmas she was allowed
to go to Court and share the festivities and
then return to her seclusion. King Philip
interested himself on her behalf and Mary's
ministers tried to induce her to make some
confession of guilt and petition for pardon,
but this she would not do, she declared she
was perfectly innnocent and therefore she
would never say she was guilty, she would
rather remain in prison for the truth, than
to be at liberty and have it believed she had
been guilty of disloyalty and treason. At
last she was called to Mary's side and some
kind of a reconciliation was effected, Mary
gave her a ring as a token of friendship
and she returned to her own estate at Hat-
field in Herefordshire where she lived in
seclusion, devoting her time to the study of
Greek and Latin under the instruction of
Roger Archemo. From this place Eliza-
beth was called to the throne,her coronation
was a most splendid affair she was every-
where hailed with joy and gladness she had
a large sum of money given her by the
officers of the city; during the ceremonies
she placed a wedding ring on her finger
saying she would never have any other 
husband than the realm of England. She
made a very good impression on that day
by her condescension to the poor.  The first
eleven years of her reign was distinguished 
for peace and happiness during this interval 
she displayed the very best qualities of a
sovereign, firmness, prudence vigilance,
activity, pity and foresight; she was just 
as firm a Protestant as Mary had been a 
Catholic, consequently she did all in her
power to favor her own faith, at this time
there were three theological and political 
parties the Reformed Church, the Puritans
and the Catholics, but all combined against
a set called Ana Baptists two members were
burned and others severely punished, this
was the first blood spilled by Elizabeth on 
account of religion. Philip of Spain,
thinking he would like to get posession of
England and restore the Catholic faith, sent
a fleet called the Invincible Armada over
from Spain, but he was completely routed;
the English displayed great skill in defeat-
ing him,the queen herself appeared in camp
riding a white horse, armed like a warrior:
she said to her soldiers "I am only a poor,
weak woman, but I have the heart of a
king, and I am ready to lie my body down
in the dust for my kingdom, my God and
my people." However she did not have a 
chance to prove these brave words, by her
skillful commander Sir Frances Drake set-
ting fire to the fleet which completely over-
powered them. Elizabeth is described as
vain, irritable and coarse, with red hair and
a very long nose, given to swearing and

[Column 2]
boxing people's ears, was extremely fond of 
flattery, on one ocassion she asked an am-
bassador from the Court of Mary, Queen of 
Scotts, who was a very beautiful woman, 
which of them was the best looking, Mary
or herself; he had a very hard time to get
around it, he said he thought she had the
fairest skin, she asked him which was the
taller, he answered his queen was, then
she said she is too tall as I am just right. 
She had many lovers and seemed to know 
how to flirt; history says she was going to
be married pretty often for an old maid; she
seemed to take delight in marring other
peoples' happiness and instead of making
matches was continually breaking them up;
she could not prohibit marriage but she did
not think heads of colleges and cathedrals,
should let their wives enter those places;
she was once very magnificently entertained,
by the wife of an Archbishop, she thanked
her by saying she could not call her his
wife, she did not like to call her his mistress,
so she did not know what to call her, at
any rate she was much obliged to her.
She had many favorites, among them one
young man named Essex whom she treated
very much as a son but they were continu-
ally quarreling and making up, finally she
had him beheaded but she never seemed to 
get entirely over it. She also beheaded
Mary Queen of Scotts, but in justice it
must be said, this Sovereign was constantly
pressing her claims to the crown and the 
Catholic Church favored it. On one ocas-
sion two poor fellows interfered in one of
her love affairs by publishing a pamphlet and 
selling it, for this their right hands were
cut off, one of them immediately raised his
hat with his left hand saying, “God save
the Queen.’, She reigned about forty-five
years during that time the whole western 
part of Europe was convulsed with conflicts
between the Protestants and Catholic parties,
her own kingdom also was continually
trembling with the heavy shocks it was
constantly receiving, but Elizabeth with the 
help of her wise and efficient administration
whom she had displayed great judgment in
selecting guided it safely through, she was
many times beset with schemes and plots to
dethrone her all of which had to be met
and overcome. Her reign ranks amongst
the greatest and most fortunate of English
sovereigns she found England inferior to oth-
er nations of Europe and left it amongst the
most powerful; her age was noted for its
poetry, literature and improved civilization
and while she left a blot upou her history
by the blood she shed, her reign was purity
itself, compared with that of her father and
her sister. Elizabeth is said to have been very
great and also very small, she is accused of
double dealing, for instance she would issue 
orders and then make a loud ado and pun-
ish those who carried them out. I think in 
judging her we should consider her birth 
and surroundings; if she was crafty as they
say she was, she probably lived in a crafty
age she died on the twenty-fourth of March 
in the sixty-seventh year of her age and
the forty-fifth of her reign although I find
that historians differ in dates, as well as re-
gards character.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
NOTES AND NEWS. 

	NINETEEN counties in Nebraska have 
women serving as County Superintendents 
of schools. 
	THE Arkansas Senate, on April 5, passed 

[Column 2]
a bill giving women school suffrage and 
making them eligible to membership on 
school boards. 
	APRIL, 1893, is a bright month for the 
friends of equal rights for women. Kansas, 
Illinois, Arkansas, Colorado, Ontario and
Nova Scotia!
	MRS. SUSAN S. FESSENDEN addressed 
the committee on woman suffrage of the 
Connecticut Legislature on April 12, in 
behalf of the pending woman suffrag
bills.
	BOTH houses of the Colorado Legislatu 
have voted in favor of a constitution 
amendment extending suffrage to women. 
Gov. Waite signed the bill April 7. 
	THE lower House of Nova Scotia has 
passed a bill giving full parliamentary suf-
frage to women. A bill of the same nature 
has passed the upper House in Ontario. 
The Arkansas Senate has passed a bill giv-
ing women school suffrage. 
	MRS. M. E. LEASE has been appointed 
by the Governor of Kansas, president of 
the State Board of Charities and the New 
Forum is our authority for stating that 
she has been ordained a minister in the Christian
Church.
	THERE was a large attendance at the
meeting of the Women's National Press 
Association, the evening of April 21. 
After some announcements made by the 
president relative to Woman's work at the 
World's Fair, Mrs. Gillen, of England, 
gave a short talk on the subject, "Every 
Man a Genius," which was interesting and 
suggestive. Mrs. Laura de Force Gordon's 
all around" talk was replete with thought, 
and clearly manifested the broad culture of 
the woman who spoke. 
	CONSTANCE FENIMORE WOOLSON, the
poet-authoress, was born in Claremont, N. 
H., lived in Florida during the years 
when she was best known to Americans, and has 
for some time lived in England, but grew 
up, developed and first became famous in 
Cleveland. Her mother was a niece of 
Fenimore Cooper, and the daughter received
his name along with a large share of his 
talent. Miss Woolson is forty-four years
old, and quite alone in the world since the 
death, in 1879, of her mother, to whom she 
was devoted. 
	TO attend the World's Fair one would find 
a pleasant stopping place on the west side 
away from the noise and confusion of the 
fair, yet with a railway station at hand so 
it would cost but little time and strength to 
reach the grounds. A lady known to the 
editor of the Tribune has taken a house to 
enable herself and sister to spend the season 
in Chicago and will have a few rooms to 
spare which she will rent at reasonable
rates—$30 per month, with opportunity to 
take meals if desired, in the house. The 
lady is especially anxious to have as her 
guests the progressive women of the day 
and this place will be especially desirable
for those who are planning to attend the 
Congresses. Address, W. W. care of 
Woman's Tribune, Washington, D. C.
	SENATOR INZER, of St. Clair, has offered 
in the Alabama Senate a joint resolution to 
submit to the voters a constitutional 
amendment authorizing the General as-
sembly to extend suffrage to women in 
municipal elections involving the sale of
liquor.
	WHOEVER else was disappointed in the


fall elections, there is one candidate who
is not. This is Miss Ella L. Knowles, the
pretty and plucky girl attorney general of
Montana. The People’s party nominated
her, and she did the rest. Miss Knowles
is a college graduate—a master of arts from
her alma mater, Bates college, Lewiston,
Me. She is a New Hampshire girl, and
studied law in that state first and afterward
in Helena, Mon.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.
	
	DIED in the Deseret Hospital, Salt Lake City,
December 22nd, 1892 of Cancer; Sister Betsy S.
Long wife of the late J. V. Long. Her age was
fifty-eight years and three months, born on the
25th, of September 1834 in Bishop’s-Stratford,
Hertfordshire, England, was baptized in the year
1852, emigrated to Utah April 23rd, 1861; in com-
pany with two of her. sisters and one brother on
board the Clipper ship Underwriters, under the
Presidency of Milo Andrus, Homer Duncan and
C. W. Penrose which arrived in New York, May
22nd; crossed the plains in Captain Milo Andrus
and John Murdock’s Company, arriving the same
year in Great Salt Lake City, Sep. 12th. She was
a faithful Latter-day Saint with noble traits of
character, generous and sympathetic in her
nature and was beloved by all who knew her; she
was always ready and willing to do good to others
no sacrifice seemed too great but was a pleasure
to her when she could help the needy, always put-
ting her trust in God under all circumstances; we
miss her kind and loving face but hope to meet
again “Blessed are they that die in the Lord for
their reward is sure. She was a member of the
Relief Society and for many years held the office
of Teacher in the 13th Ward.
	She also leaves one son, J. V. Long his wife
and two grand-children to whom the affliction is
especially hard. The funeral services were held
in the 13th Ward Assembly Rooms, Dec. 25th.
	May we all take consolation in the hope of a
glorious resurrection and in the knowledge that
our loss is her gain.
	The remains were followed to the Salt Lake
cemetery by a concourse of relatives and friends
to pay their last respects to the dear, departed
one.
							F. S. DELL.

“Yes.we loved her well and we miss her sore
	Voice tender and lips that blessed;
Our hearts cry out for her evermore,
	The hands that strengthen, the arms that
		pressed.
Weary enough was the up hill way,
	Darkling enough was the lingering night,
But this hour of sorrow has not a ray,
	It has carried our loved one out of sight.

She has gained what we seek for yet,
	Is at rest while we labor still;
Sorrow and sighing she’ll forget,
	While we march on up the weary hill.
We are parted, but not for long,
	The shadows fall, it is growing late;
Soon shall we falter the even-song,
	Soon shall we enter the open gate.”


A TRIBUTE OF RESPECT.

	DIED on the 26th, of January 1893, at Kanab,
Kane Co. Utah, our much esteemed, Stake
President, Harriet Dye Bunting wife of James L.
Bunting, born Jan. 31st, 1843, at Wymondham
Norfolk, England emigrated to Salt Lake with
her parents in 1853; married at the same place in
1859, moved south to Kanab in 1870, was the
mother of twelve children, nine of whom are liv-
ing, two daughters reside in Arizona and one son
now laboring in the missionary field in West
Virginia; the rest of the family with many friends
surrounded her peaceful death bed. She has
ever been a faithful, wife and mother and an earn-
est worker in the cause of truth, she was selected
as treasurer in the first organization of this Relief
Society, which was effected Nov. 12, 1873; four
years after, Dec. 15th, 1877, was chosen President of
the Kanab Relief Society, which position she
efficiently held until June 14th, 1885 when she
was sustained as President of the Relief Society
of Kanab Stake, which office she still held at the
time of her death—has also been an earnest
Teacher in the Sabbath School, as well as a faith-
ful leader in the choir, was always prompt and
reliable and we can truthfnlly say she has magni-


fied every position where unto she has been
called. Therefore be it,
	Resolved:—That after a life of usefulness our
beloved sister has paid the debt of nature and
gone to rest, and that she was fully prepared by
her exemplary life, and while we do not regret
the change on her part, still we will miss her
kindly presence and influence at our meetings.
	Resolved:—that while we feel sad at parting
with our sister, we will remember her earnest 
exhortations and practical faith in her religion
which has so often imparted encouragment, hope
and comfort to our hearts. Her words of wise
counsel still fill our minds with admiration for
this our noble sister.
	Resolved:—that while words are inadequate to
express her many virtues we will strive to emu-
late her faith and follow her good examples; and
that while we extend our sympathies to the be-
reaved family, yet we congratulate the sons and
daughters of the deceased on the pattern of her
patient and noble life.
Resolved:—that we present a copy of these
resolutions to the bereaved family, that also one
be sent to the EXPONENT, and they be spread
upon the records of this society.
'Tis hard to break the tender cord when love has
	bound our heart,
'Tis hard,so hard to say the  words, must we for-
	ever part?
Dearest loved one we have laid thee in the peace-
	ful grave's embrace,
But thy memory will be cherished 'till we see thy
heavenly face.
ELIZABETH PUGH, Prest.
MARGARET BAIRD,
EMMA WOOLLEY Coun's.
MARGERY RIGGS, Sec.


OBITUARIES.
	A sadness and gloom has overcast our little
ward of Vermilion, by the death of our noble
sister and colaborer in the Relief Society and
wife of our worthy Bishop.
	Amelia Gottfredson was the daughter of
Edward and Betty Gledhill was born in Oldham,
Lancashire, England, May 31st 1854, she came to
Utah with her parents in 1868, married Peter
Gottfredson in 1872, they made their home in Mt.
Pleasant, Sanpete Co. for three or four years,
then moved to Vermilion Sevier Co. where they
have resided ever since.
	At the Organization of the Relief Society of
this ward in 1880. Sister Gottfredson was chosen
first Counselor which position she held till her
death. She also was Assistant to the President
of the Primary Association. Sister Gottfredson
is well known by many, as her home has ever
been a haven of rest to our brethren traveling
through our little ward.
	She died on the 17th of March 1893, at the age
of 38 years, 9 months and 17 days. She was
surrounded by her family, brothers and sisters,
(except her youngest brother who is absent on a
Mission in England.)
	She leaves a kind husband and 7 children (the
youngest only 2 years old) and many relatives
and friends to mourn her loss. She suffered for
many months with dropsy, but died peacefully at
last like a true Latter-day Saint resigned to the
will of the Lord.
	May she rest in peace till the morning of the
resurrection and we be worthy to meet her.
							VIOLET IVIE.

Editor Exponent:
	OUR little town of Escelanta has had a shadow
of gloom cast over it, caused by the death of two
of our noble sisters. The first was Sister Lucy
Cooley who passed away Dec. 30th, 1892, she
was the daughter of George and Sarah Prince
born Dec. 29th, 1861 at Kaysville, Davis Co.
She was a kind and dutiful daughter ever obe-
dient to her parents and always of a religious turn.
She formed the acquaintance of Joseph Woolley
and was married to him Sept. 12th 1878. She was
a faithful member of the Relief Society, and an
energetic teacher, on her death bed she expressed
a desire to soon be able to go round teaching.
She was a good, exemplary teacher always striv-
ing to do her duty. She was a devoted wife and
mother. She leaves a husband and six small
children to mourn her loss. She was loved and
respected by all who knew her; she suffered
greatly but never murmured; she died as she had
lived firm in the principles of the gospel in hopes
of a glorious resurrection. Blessed are they who
die in the Lord.


AT the same place March 26th 1893, Sister
Elinor Barker was called to leave this world of
sorrow. She was the daughter of Thomas and
Susannah Heap, born in Yorkshire, England
Dec 3rd 1858, Emigrated with her parents in 1863
in Brother McArthur's company; they settled in
Toquerville where she was inured to all the
hardships of the early settlement of that district
of country; they were pioneers in many of the
settlements of the saints; she was one of the first
women that crossed the rough and trackless
mountains into this valley, where the flourishing
town of Escalanta now stands. Soon after her
arrival here she gave her heart and hand in
marriage to Peter Barker a worthy young man;
she was a faithful wife and mother ever working
for the comfort of her husband and children.
She was a member of the Relief Society in good
standing. She was the mother of eight children.
two of whom went before her to the spirit world.
She lived and died a faithful Latter-day Saint.
She leaves a husband and six children and a host
of relatives and friends to mourn her loss. Peace-
ful be her repose.
	MARY T. WILCOX Cor. Sect.


DOCTOR MATTIE HUGHES CANNON,
       Office: 11 South, First West Street.
Office  practice  for Diseases  of Women from  2
                      until 4 p. m.

       Woman's   Co-operative    Inst'n
                   	  Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY 
    ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
         AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
              POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates 
styles, Hats and   Bonnets  cleaned  and  retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc.  Stamping done to order. But
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
   No. 41 S.                WEST TEMPLE STREET,
				               Opp. Grant Bros. Stables.

                  MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
HAS REMOVED  her office,  from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p.m.

                      R.K. THOMAS
          26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
		   SALT LAKE CITY.
		    The Leading Retail
			  Cash House
		      R.K. THOMAS
	      DAVID   JAMES   &   CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
[-] Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORC[-]
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from 
he country promptly responded to.
DAVID JAMES, Box.  306. Salt Lake City
   DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP, will  commence
her summer class in Obstetrics and Nursing
on Monday May 1st 1893.
   Office and  residence  34  East, 5th  South
Telephone 383.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 15 and MAY 1, 1893. No. 21.


CONTENTS:
	Opinions about Names. Sister Minerva W.
Snow—C. A. Conover. U.W. P. Club—Gladys
Woodmansee. Primary Report, Colonia Juarez, 
Mexico—Caroline C. Romney. N. W. R. S. 
Passing Thoughts—Camelia. National Relief 
Society—E. B. Wells. Mrs. East's Visit. W. S.
A., Salt Lake Co.—Ella W. Hyde. Our Boys
and Girls—E. H. L. Murray. R. S. Reports. 
Notes and News. Miscellaneous. Mary E. 
Ericksen. Obituary.
	EDITORIAL:—Temple Dedication. Editorial
Notes.
	POETRY:—A. Handful of Violets—Hyancinth.
Love's Questioning—Lillie T. Freeze. Menu for 
a Happy Day—Selected. Promise You Will
Love Me Always—Caroline B Pratt.


A HANDFUL OF VIOLETS.

'Twas a morning in midwinter,
	Cold but clear as joyous May,
Over dale and lonely woodland,
	A snow-white mantle lay.
The delicate hoar frost decking
	Tree and shrub with strange device;
And a filmy mist was rising
	From the river's broken ice.
The sun shone out with a brightness
	That dazzled the watching eye;
The smoke curled lazily upward
	Towards the clear azure sky.
The wind rose high and sadly moaned
	Through the boughs of leafless trees,
And whirled the white snow into drifts,
	Joined the ice-clad river's breeze.
Thus it was when they came to me, 
	Still with dewy fragrance wet,
Plucked in the warm and sunny south,
	A "handful of violets."
And in fancy I saw the hands
	That gathered the blossoms rare;
A sad-faced mother, somber clad,
	And fatherless boy so fair.
So tenderly, aye reverently,
	She stooped the flowers to part,
With thoughts of their hoped-for mission
	Fast filling her aching heart.
The great brown eyes gaze wond'ringly
	At his mother's falling tears,
"Poor mamma," the sweet lips whisper,
	Words of comfort low she hears.
Two weeks, with water daily changed,
	They bloomed nor their beauty lost,
'Till sunshine stole the snow away,
	And spring rains destroyed the frost.
Long before their fragrance perished,
	Over his couch they were strewn;
In the lone, beautiful city,
	With its peaceful dead entomed.
Wooed to life by balmy breezes,
	With their wishes unexpressed,
Far from the sunny south they came,
	On a northern grave to rest.
Only one lived, and that—ah, well,
	I have told you where it rests;
How the stilled heart beneath must love,
	That "handful of violets."
May 3rd, 1893. HYACINTH.


LOVE’S QUESTIONINGS.

IN the valley of the Temple
	Where God's work in beauty gleam,
From the snow capped peak or meadow,
	Rose-blown hedge or rippling stream.

In the shadow of the Temple
	On the hill-side fair to see,
When thy gaze was all enraptured,
	Came sweet tender thoughts of me?

Did you think of nature's lover
	How her eyes would feast the while,
Viewing o'er each scene of beauty
	'Neath the charm of thy sweet smile?

In the music of the Temple
	Swelling sweet with prayer and praise,
Came a thought of joys unmeasured,
	That we knew in other days?

In the glory of the Temple
	Where the angels met with man,
Great and precious truths revealing
	Of the gospel's glorious plan.

When the Holy Ghost in power
	Filled thy soul with perfect peace,
Did you long for me that hour?
	Did your love for me increase?

To my spirit comes the answer,
	In sweet accents soft and low,
Giving me a blest assurance,
	All my trusting heart would know.
					LILLIE T. FREEZE.


OPINIONS ABOUT NAMES.

	THE Ladies' Home Journal  for May
contains a number of articles on letters
from prominent women on  the subject of a
married woman using the husband's name
or her own also after his death.
	Our opinion has been for some years that
it is better for all purposes that a woman
use her own name, also that girls be given
one name only and retain the father's name
in  connection  with that  of the   husband
after marriage, then one knows directly who
she  is, and   her identity is  preserved.
Where girls have double-names, for con-
venience, drop out one of the names (even
if it should be the name of the great grand-
mother) and retain the name of one's own
father which is a courtesy and  an honor to
him.   The son should always (in our hum-
ble opinion)   in   connection  with  the
name  given  him  at  birth  have also the
maiden name of his mother  which keeps
up the dignity of both families and makes
things equal as well as signifying the distinc-
tive lines to which the families belong.
	We give here the opinions of some very
celebrated women writers of diverse views
on this subject.

	I SHOULD say that the general usage in
this  matter,  somewhat  modified  by  the
various clubs and other associations among
women, would be sufficiently correct.   In
formal  society  a  lady  may, perhaps,  be
more conveniently  identified  by  her hus-
band's name, as Mrs. John Smith.
	In literary life, however, and in associa-
tions, the woman should be known by her

[Column 2]
own baptismal name, which is that naturally
and necessarily used in her correspondence.
				JULIA WARD HOWE.

	ALL that I can say on the subject is that,
personally, I prefer to see a married woman
keep her own name—as Mrs. Sarah Smith,
instead  of  Mrs.  John  Smith—but  that  I
recognize perfectly the social needs which
arise to make it more  convenient  that the
name of  the  husband  be  used  in  family
designation.
		ELIZABETH STUART PHELPS WARD.

	I CONFESS to entire ignorance as to the
most  acceptable  manner   of addressing a
married woman, nor do I know that there
is any recognized  code or rule applied to
this question; therefore, I can only give my
preferences and opinions.   I do  not like to
see a letter addressed  to a married woman
by her own first name.   The husband's full
name,  not his initials,  in  my  judgement,
should always be used.  This is  more  dig-
nified for the  wife, more respectful to  the
husband, and certainly more convenient for
all business purposes.   One thing is certain;
personally  I  always prefer  to  have letters
addressed to me as,
		MRS. HENRY WARD BEECHER

	ACCURATELY speaking I know little of
the subject of  marriage titles.   In England 
a married woman is always called  by  her
husband's name,  whether  her husband be
alive or dead.   For instance, if  I were liv-
ing in England or Scotland, I would be ad-
dressed as Mrs. Robert Barr as long as I re-
mained  unmarried  a  second  time.     Mr.
Beecher and Mr.  Miriam told  me that  in
America a  widow resumed her  Christian
name, and acting on their  advice I signed
myself as Mrs. Amelia E.  Barr. But if the
custom of the country permitted, I should
infinitely prefer to  be called by  my  hus-
band's name because, if I am no longer his
wife, I am  at  least  his  widow.     I  think
affectionate remembrance would desire to
keep the husband's name.   I know I would
gladly have done so.
				AMELIA E. BARR.

	I DO not know that I recognize any code
in this matter, because a  woman  who  has
given her name to the public while unmar-
ried cannot expect that public to  observe a
strict social code when she marries.   At the
same time, I like to have my  social letters,
and all home and domestic correspondence,
addressed to Mrs. Robert M.  Wilcox, as it
is to my husband that I owe my home, and
the social position of a respected and pro-
tected wife.
	I do not expect editors and publishers to
take this matter  into  consideration,  how-
ever, as it is my work, and not my  person-
ality, which has made  me  known to them.
I expect them to address  me  by the name
which has made me of interest to them as a
correspondent.
	But there is always a greater pleasure to
me in seeing a letter bearing my husband's
name than those  which come simply ad-
dressed to	ELLA WHEELER WILCOX.


THE question seems to me a matter of
very simple solution.  Looking on it as
custom founded on reasons of propriety,
convenience and natural sentiment have al-
ready settled it.  A man marries a woman
to give her, upon her own consent, the
place and title of "Mistress" of all of
which he is "Master," his honor, his home
his family and his name.  The two become
one, and one name is therefore becoming
for the two.  Upon this theory of things
long established, the custom founds itself
and is perpetuated; the man's name is the
wife's name, as it is to be his children's,
and it is that by which, in all their joint
life and interest, domestic and social, they
are known and recognized as a pair.
Neither relinquishes individuality; each
has a personal name still.  Mary Brown is
not John Brown, of all that concerns them
together.  If he is Doctor Brown she is not
"Mistress Doctor," but still simply Mrs.
Brown.  This is also the case if he is
Reverend, Right Reverend or His Ex-
cellency.
	If Mrs. John Brown transacts business,
signs a deed, makes a will; if she keeps a
shop or a school, or is herself professional;
if she should become known as an artist,
musician, author—she does al these things
personally as Mary Brown; "Mrs." only
because of her married estate and surname;
and it is needful that her personal signature
shall be used and shall represent her. Mr.
John Brown is not herein responsible.
	I think a true wife will like best to be
known, to her life's end, by the name sh
would wish most of all to honor.  If she
become a widow she will prefer to keep it,
as in memory and faith; only waiving it,
perhaps, when a son's wife comes to bear,
in her turn, the very same.  Then the
elder wife and mother may retire, in a
modest dignity, upon her own personality.
It used to be a beautiful courtesy, in such
cases, for the world outside to distinguish
her as "Madam" Brown.
ADELINE D. T. WHITNEY.

	I FEAR that I have not any definite
opinion on the subject.  My own reason
for using Mrs. Hodgson Burnett on my
cards was a very simple one, indeed.
There were several Mrs. Burnetts in Wash-
ington during my first winter here, and as
one or two had initials similar to Dr. Bur-
nett's, confusion arose on one or two oc-
casions.  A number of my friends sug-
gested that if my card bore my name, as
Mrs. Hodgson Burnett, they would know
who had called at such times as they were
absent from home, and they had only the
card to refer to.  My first name is never
used, except by newspapers.  I blush to
discover that I am never of the slightest
use in a discussion, my one ruling opinion
being that everything which is not a brutal
crime or a shining virtue is, more or less, a
matter of taste; and as my own taste is to
leave to every one else the entire right of
decision in matters pertaining to theirs, I
must, perforce, wear at times an air of be-
ing indefinite, even on such stray occasions
as when I am not.
	FRANCES HODGSON BURNETT.
	WHENEVER the conventionalities of so-
ciety are concerned I think the husband's
name should be used, and whenever it is a
personal or business matter the wife's
Christian name.  In the case of a widow
she has a right, in my opinion, to wear her

[Column 2]
husband’s name when there is no son bear-
ing the same name.
	HARRIET PRESCOTT SPOFFORD.
	
	IT seems preferable to use the appellation,
Mrs. John Brown, rather than Mrs. Mary
Brown, when, because of the husband's
prominence, explanations and misunder-
standings may be avoided.
	Not many decades ago it was woman's 
highest ambition to become a wife, and she
who had reached the age of thirty without
having attained this result became an ob-
ject of pity and reproach.  Many a girl has
given her hand in marriage, unaccompanied
by her heart, rather than incur the unpleas-
antness of advanced maidenhood.  To be
an "old maid," in that earlier day, was to
invite criticism and derision.  At one time
woman was a helpless creature dependent
upon the strength and chivalry of man.
She not only bestowed her hand and heart
upon her home-giver, but her very identity
was sacrificed upon the marriage altar.
There are many Hannah Janes who, like
the heroine of Locke's pathetic story,
learned too late that the "rubbing out" of
self brought unhappiness to the one they
hoped to benefit.  It was very appropriate
at that time, when woman was known only
as the wife of her husband, that her identity
become merged in his. Mrs. Dr. Jones
was never suspected of being a practicing
physician; she was only the wife of one.
	Higher education for woman, resulting in
a broader field of usefulness, is gradually
changing many long-established customs.
The wife now recognizes the fact that for
the security of home happiness she must
not only be the moral leader of husband
and sons, but intellectual companion as
well.  In the larger development of her
mental and physical powers she naturally
desires to set aside the props and shields of
former ages, and to bear the responsibility
of her opinions in her own name.
	I would advocate that woman retain her
maiden name through life, and at marriage
annex the name of her husband.  Why
should Mary Clark become lost to the
friends of her youth, except to the few who
are acquainted with the fact of her marriage
with James Howard, when Mary Clark
Howard would convey her girlhood’s iden-
tity as well as that of her married life?
	ROSE HARTWICK THORPE.

	My own preference is to be addressed
Mrs. Lyman Abbott whenever it is in any
sense public, and always on the back of a
letter.  I took my husband's name when I
married, and I prefer to be sheltered under
the whole of it so far as I can be.  Of
course, in signing my name, I ordinarily
use my legal signature.
	A. F. H. ABBOTT.
	A MARRIED woman should always be ad-
dressed, unless she prefers it otherwise, by
her husband's name.  I do not know of
any hard and fast rule in this matter; it is a
question of accepted form in America.  In
England the husband's given name is gen-
erally omitted where the address is clearly
understood.
	CONSTANCE CARY HARRISON.

	IDENTIFICATION OF SIGNATURE
	(By Frances E. Lvnigan.)
	IN these days of multitudinous correspon-
dence the necessity for some way of show-
ing in a woman's signature, whether she

[Column 3]
be maid, wife or widow, whether she be of
the married orunmaried estate, is realized
as never before.
	The mystery of the usual feminie sig-
nature when it is attached to a business
letter, leads almost invariably to embarass-
ment on the part of the answered.  No
woman likes to be addressed with the Quak-
erish simplicity of "Mary Brown" whether
she be matron or maid, nor if she be the
former does she wish to be addressed as the
latter.
	In proceeding to some opinion as to the
best course to be adopted, the thing which
must not be done should first be thoroughly
understood.  The vulgarity of the titular
signature "Mrs. Mary Brown," or "Miss
Susan Smith," affixed after a "yours very
truly" can only be excused by its evident
intent to be one of the solutions of the
problem.  This form is the one to be
avoided.  A fashion recommended by com-
mon sense,simplicity and good taste, is that
of placing "Miss," in brackets, a little to
the left of the name,as:
	Yours very truly,
	[Miss] Mary Smith.
	Its equivalent for the married woman is
found by writing below her signature, “Ad-
dress Mrs. John Smith,” as:
	Yours very truly,
	Mary Smith.
	Address Mrs. John Smith.
	The value of concerted action is un-
questioned, and the necessity for it in the
accomplishment of any given purpose quite
as evident, therefore, if this problem of
identification of signature is ever to be
solved, it can only be by united agreement
on the part of women to adopt for all time
some such form as the above in their busi-
ness correspondence.
	The growing fashion of giving girl-
children but one name, as "Helen" or
"Katherine," so that when, if they marry,
they may retain, with their new signature,
their full maiden name; is part of this
subject of identification of signature.
"Mollie Irene Brown" is not as euphonious
nor as sensible as "Mollie Garfield Brown"
or "Nellie Grant Sartoris."  This custom
has the further advantage of securing the
woman's immediate recognition not only as
her husband's wife but also as her father's
daughter.  Mrs. Brown or Mrs. Sartoris
signifies but little, but Mrs Garfield Brown
or Mrs. Grant Sartoris tells its own story.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EVERYWHERE the world speaks for unity, 
everywhere the race sighs for unity, every-
where the heart of man beats for unity.
—W. S. Rainsford. D. D. 
	THE ethnographic exhibit at the Chicago
Fair will be partly within the main building
and partly outdoors—the collections being
within and other features without. The 
American department will include speci-
mens of native tribes living their usual life
and engaged in their occupations; relief
maps of the most famous earthworks of the
Mississippi Valley; models of the mysteri-
ous structures of Yucatan and Central
America, with casts of the hieroglyphics;
Peruvian mummies; palaeolithic implements
and relics of the mound-builders, photo-
graphs of mounds and ruins from Alaska to 
Tierra del Fuego; illustrations of primitive
religions, games and folk lore; and numis-
matic, zoological, geographical and natural
history collections in general.		Popular
Science Monthly.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MENU FOR A HAPPY DAY.

"TAKE a little dash of water cold,
	A little leaven of prayer,
A little bit of sunshine gold
	Disolved in morning air.

Add to your meal some merriment, 
	Add thought for kith and kin,
And then as a prime ingredient,
	A plenty of work thrown in.

But spice it all with the essence of love,
	And a little whiff of play;
Let a nice old book, and a glance of love
	Complete the well spent day.”
							SELECTED.


PROMISE YOU WILL LOVE ME ALWAYS.

		I will ask of you a promise
			Now while I am young and strong,
		’Tis that you will truly love me
			When the years have rolled along.
		When life’s cares and trials leave me
			With deep lines upon my brow,
		And my brown hair turns to silver, 
			Can your heart love then as now?

		Now I’m young and have life’s pleasures,
			Gay young friends to cheer each day,
		And your love will be much dearer,
			When the years have passed away.
		When these friends that now are near me
			With my youthful days have flown,
		Tell me, can you love me truly
			Then when I have older grown.
	
		If your love to me is precious
			When each day with pleasure rings
		Oh, how much my heart will need it
			When old age unto me clings.
		When my steps are slow and feeble
			Hushed the merry sound of glee,
		After years of life together 
			Will you, can you still love me?
 
		When I’ve gone beyond the river
			Left on earth all pain and care.
		And you too have passed the portals, 
			And we dwell together there,
		I will want your love in Heaven
			When our circle is complete;
		Promise now that you will love me
			When beyond this life we meet.
						CAROLINE B. PRATT.


[Column 1]
SISTER MINERVA W. SNOW
	HONORED.

	A VERY pleasant social gathering was
held in the Manti Temple on the 22nd of
March in honor of the seventy-first an-
niversary of the birth of Sister Minerva
W. Snow.
	Her sweet and gentle spirit and her 
integrity to duty has endeared her to all
who know her and especially to her co-
laborers in the Temple.  Desiring to show
our love and appreciation for her, a few of
us sisters planned a surprise for her and in
cousulting Presidents Lund and Maiben,
they invited us to have it in the Temple.
We gladly consented and the following is
Sister Snow's description of it, written to a
friend:
	"We had assembled as usual at the
Temple and Prest. Maiben, at the close of
his remarks in the morning service, ex-
pressed a wish to meet the workers in an
upper room, after the day's work was done.
At the appointed time, all the workers,
with a few intimate friends who had been
invited, assembled there. Of course care
was taken by friends, to keep me in the
proper place and I had no thought of what

[Column 2]
was going on, until some of the sisters came
and said Brother Maiben was waiting for
us.  Hurrying with them, imagine my sur-
prise when I entered to see so many seated
around the room, I began to feel that some-
thing was up, but was not certain until Bro.
Maiben arose and spoke very beautifully
and feelingly upon our associations and
Temple labors and announced that our
gathering was in honor of the seventy-first
anniversary of Sister Snow's birthday.
	He was followed by Andrew Thompson
and others after which President Maiben
called on me to speak.  I arose feeling
very humble and full for gratitude to my
brethren and sisters for the kindness ex-
tended to me on this occasion. The meet-
ing was clo ed by singing Doxology, after
which a few moments were spent in hand
shakings, congratulations and good wishes.
Supper was then announced and President
Maiben kindly invited us to go to the
dining room where a large table was spread
and beautifully decorated with fruit and
flowers and loaded down with the bounties
of the earth.  About forty persons were
seated around the table, and everything the
heart could wish spread before them.
Near the head of the table was a large
beautifully ornamented cake, prepared by
the ladies of the Temple and bearing the
inscription.  "M. W. Snow, aged seventy-
one.'  We enjoyed ourselves until about
dark, when all returned to our homes with 
blessings for each other n thankfulness to
our Heavenly Father.
	"I feel that great credit is due to Sisters'
C. A. Conover, Christina Willardson and
Nellie Jensen, the committee who instituted
the surprise and also to Brother John Whit-
beck for his generosity and able assistance.
Nor must we forget President Maiben, who
in his kind and friendly manner made the
occasion as pleasant as possible. President
Lund was called away to the city, which
we very much regretted, but he left his
blessings and approval for the day.  We
pray the blessings of heaven may rest upon
him, for we love, honor and respect him in
this holy Temple.  All present contributed
to the occasion.  About fifty persons were
present, many of them presented me with
beautiful tokens of their love and remem-
brance, helping to make it one of the fairest 
flowers in the garland of memory."
	Upon reading this correspondence, I felt
that it would be only proper to send it to
the EXPONENT,  believing that its many
readers would be pleased to know of the
honor conferred upon one so widely known
and dearly beloved as is Sister Minerva.
	C. A. CONOVER.


U. W. P. CLUB.

	A MEETING of the U. W. P. C. con-
vened in the new EXPONENT parlor April
29th, 1893, with a goodly number of the
members in attendence. Mrs. E. B. Wells
presided, and Mrs. Lucy Clark offered
prayer.
	The minutes of the March meeting were
read and the roll call was responded to by
choice sentiments or verses.
	Miss N. V. Davis gave an interesting
and instructive lecture on the different
kinds of verses, lucidly explaining the
construction of the different stanzas, and
aptly illustrating the same.
	Mrs. Lillie T. Freeze read an original
article, entitled, “What is Religion,”
written in the lady’s usual able manner.
Gladys Woodmansee sang a song, which


was followed by an interesting and humor-
ous verbal description of Samoan women
and their customs, given by Mrs. Mary
A. Freeze. Miss Mamie Freeze favored
the club with some very fine instrumental
music, which was much appreciated. The
President spoke regarding the U. W. P. C.
becoming associated with the Territorial
Federation of Clubs, read the constitution
of and a communication from the Federa-
tion, and explained some of the benefits to
be derived from the connection. It was
moved and seconded that we join the
Federation. Remarks were called for, and
the members expressed themselves as
being in favor of the connection, the
motion was carried.
	Article second of the By Laws was moved
by motion, and Mrs Lizzie Wilcox, Mrs.
Ida Haag, and Miss Mamie Conrad were
voted in as members of the U. W. P. C.
In connection with the Prest. Miss May
Preston was voted to act as delegate for the
club, at the convention to be held in
Chicago during the World’s Fair.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke of her expected
absence at the time of our next meeting,
but hoped we would carry on the meeting
as usual. Miss Pearl Russell kindly
favored the club with a vocal selection, and
benediction was pronounced by Mrs. Phebe
C. Young.
	Program for next meeting: Article on
the Sixth Sense, Mrs. L. G. Richards;
recitation, Miss N. V. Davis; music Mrs.
Maggie Bassett.
	GLADYS WOODMANSEE, Secretary.


PRIMARY REPORT, COLONIA
		JUAREZ, MEXICO.
MRS. LOUIE FELT:
	DEAR SISTER—Perhaps a few items in
regard to the Primary Associations of the
Mexican Mission will be of interest to you.
There is an association in each of the four
settlements of this Mission, and, judging
from the reports at our recent conference
they are all in a flourishing condition.
	The Mission organization was effected at
our February conference with Sister Ettie
Teasdale, President; Sisters Victoria Pratt,
and Abbie Young, Counsellors.
	Two Primary Conferences have been
held since the organization. The last one
was held on the 26th of August, President
Ettie Teasdale presiding. A good spirit
prevailed and many excellent instructions
were given by the leading sisters; also
Apostle Teasdale and others of the leading
brethren. There was a very fair represen-
tation from all of the associations, each of
which assisted in rendering a programme
prepared for the occasion, consisting of
songs, recitations, etc. The children all
took their parts in a very pleasing manner.
	During conference the primaries held a
fair in the basement of the schoolhouse,
under the management of the president.
	There was a very fine display of Child-
ren’s work, consisting of straw braid, hats,
quilt-blocks, stockings and various kinds of
fancy work, as well as many specimens of
cookery done by the little girls. While the
boys had a very fair showing of fruits and
vegetables, also a few specimens of their
mechanical genius.
	The whole affair was a credit, considering
the short time they had for preparation and
the busy season of the year.
	Ever wishing for the advancement and
welfare of the Primaries throughout
Zion, I remain your sister in the Gospel.
		CAROLINE C. ROMNEY, SEC.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 

WOMAN'S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,  - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), - Editorical Contributor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non pareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z.C.M.I. Business hours from 
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,  APRIL 15 and MAY 1, 1893.


TEMPLE DEDICATION.

	THE General Conference of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints which
was held this year, commencing on Tuesday
the fourth of April, 1893, in the large
Tabernacle in this city at 10 o'clock a. m,
was one of the most important Conferences
ever held. President Wilford Woodruff
presided, which fact was very gratifying to
all who attended. People came from far
and near all over the country and from
various parts of the United States, Mexico
and Canada. President Woodruff's sermon
was very comforting, his kindly counsel
and tender manner of expressing himself
working a deep and lasting impression upon
all those who sat within the sound of his
voice.
	The two days of the Conference were
occupied by the Apostles and leading
authorities of the Church, much of the
teachings being in regard to the Temple
dedication and the preparations necessary
to enter in-to such a sacred and holy place.
	The dedication services commenced on
Thursday morning, April 6th, in the audi-
torium of the Salt Lake Temple forty years
from the day when the corner stone was
laid. The interest attached to this impor-
tant event has a greater and deeper sig-
nificance than appears from the outward
seeming.
	In fact no event of modern times is so
important, and fraught with such momen-
tous consequences to the world and its in-
habitants as the opening of this holy edifice
for the administration of ordinances that
pertain to the living and the dead, to the
past and the present, to the endowments
and covenants that unite families and kin-
dreds in bonds inseparable.
	By the Latter-day Saints great things are
anticipated in these places of worship, and
the revelations of heaven and ministration
of angels is a part of the expectation looked
forward to and firmly believed in.
	Therefore when the dedication of this
Temple, “the house of the Lord in the tops
of the mountains” actually transpired, it
did not seem strange that atthe same time
a tremendous wind should arise, con-
sidering that the Prince and power
of darkness is always opposed to the work
of the Lord. 
	The Bible and sacred records refer to the
Temples built in former days. Some of
them were of magnificent proportions and
beautiful, splendid and gorgeous even in
their appointments and surroundings. Solo-
man’s Temple is considered the most fin-

[column 2]
shed type of all, and yet we who live in
this day and age expect greater results to
follow the dedication of this Temple just
dedicated than any other ever erected to the
most High.
	The prayer offered by President Wood-
ruff on the occasion of the dedication was
the most inspirational and wonderful ex-
pression of power and intercession with the
heavens that we ever have heard. It com-
prised everything essential to the salvation
of the world, and no order or organization
was forgotten, but the blessing of God
earnestly invoked upon all. 
	The sermons and discourses by the First
Presidency partook in a great measure of
the nature of the prayer and were full of
charity, long suffering, forbearance, and
forgiveness. The spirit of love, the love of
the Gospel was apparent through all the 
services. The choir which consisted of three
hundred voices (the ladies all in white),
under the leadership of Prof. Evan Stephens,
rendered the most excellent music, but the
most striking feature of the dedicatory
exercises was the “Hosanna Shout,” three
times repeated by the entire congregation
who rose to their feet and remained stand-
ing during the time. This shout of Hos-
anna thrilled the hearts of the vast multi-
tude, and echoed grandly through the mag-
nificent building; so exultant and enrap-
tured were the saints in their rejoicing that
their faces beamed with gladness, and the
whole place seemed glorified and sanctified
in recognition of the consecration made on
that momentous and never-to-be-forgotten
occasion. The prayers of the people had
been answered, that their venerable  and
beloved President might live and preside at
the dedication of this Temple, the most
important one yet finished or ever begun in
this generation. This was an accomplished
fact and there and then it seemed to some
at least who witnessed the ceremonies, that
angels and celestial beings were there in
power though not visible to human sight.
	The day was one looked forward to,
finally and longingly by many thousands
who have already passed to “the other
side,” and their joys was as great perhaps
greater even than ours who are here, as
the increase of knowledge in a higher
state, which they have doubtless attained,
must exceed that of finite minds.
	The services of the Dedication continued
until April 24, thirty-one meetings had
been held at which the First Presidency
and Apostles with many other leading men
of the Church were regular in attendance.
The same order of exercises was observed
all the way through, and from first to last
the most intense interest prevailed.
	The Sunday School children passing
through the Temple and joining in the
“hosannahs” must have been a sight for
angels to gaze upon, and undoubtedly
myriads of them were present.
	The Latter-day Saints look forward
with anxious expectancy to the building of
the Temple so long talked of and prophe-
sied of in the center stake of Zion, many
have been the prophecies concerning it, and
their fulfillment is as firmly believed in as
though it were an accomplished fact.
	The spirit of charity has been very appar-
ent and its influence has been comforting
and encouraging to the people. President
Woodruff and those associated with him
have set an example for the Latter-day
Saints in this respect that should be wide
spreading in its effect through-out the
length and breadth of Zion.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE readers of our little paper will
doubtless be glad to know that a volume
has been prepared for the exhibit in the
Utah Building at the World’s Fair in
Chicago together with the books by Utah
women. It contains one copy of each vol-
ume for twenty years and all the copies of
Vol. 21, except April 1st, which was not
ready when the book was bound. It is
handsomely bound in red morocco with the
name in gold letters on the outside, and
will speak better than mere words for the
women of the Territory.
	THE Committee in silk called by Mrs.
Salisbury just before leaving Utah for the
World’s Fair are doing excellent work.
Mrs. Margaret A. Caine, the Secretary of
the Committee, has been both North and
South and devoted much time and been
very energetic to look up cocoons, and a
variety of articles as well as reeled and
spun silk etc. The exhibit of silk is likely
to be very good and quite elaborate from
present indications. Mrs. C. W. Burnett
the Chairman, is deeply interested in mak-
ing the affair a success.
	The ladies of the Salt Lake County As-
sociation really deserve credit for what they
have accomplished towards the Columbian
Exposition! The several World’s Fair
Clubs in the county have done very well
indeed and deserve great praise for their
efforts, and the Chairmen of Committees
who have had special work entrusted to
them have not only been diligent in collect-
ing and looking after the specimens of work,
but have done much at their own expense.
The means used has been from member-
ships to the Association and from lunches'
given by the ladies’ and their proportion,
from the proceeds of the Columbian ball.
Some of the work has been very expensive
but the management has been judicious, as
will be seen when the accounts are' all
handed in. The ladies have worked to-
gether in the Board and in Committees in
harmony, and have really become much
endeared to each other through the pleasant
association.
	The books by women include nine by
Sister Eliza R. Snow, three by Sister Han-
nah T. King, three by Augusta J. Crocheron,
others are Mary J. Tanner, Reba B. Pratt,
Cornelia Paddock, Jennie B. Frasieth, Mrs.
W. S. McCornick, translations from the
German, Mrs. Mary E. Almy, Emily B.
Spencer, Hannah Cornaby, and other Utah
women. Another edition of Sarah E.
Carmichael’s book of poems is to be issued
by the Ladies’ Literary Club of this City
and will be placed in the Utah Building.
	Songs and flowers of the Wasatch, the
book of poems mentioned in the paper be-
fore will soon be completed it is beautifully .
llustrated in water colors by Edna Wells
Sloan, and will be dedicated to Mrs.
Margaret Blaine Salisbury. The very
large book of photographs of Utah
architecture prepared by a committee of
ladies contains views of the oldest and
newest residences with many public build-
ings, some of the oldest and
newest residences with many public build-
ings, some of the oldest style and others
more modern—a large picture of the Salt
Lake City Temple. The book is very large and
weighs fifty pounds. Mrs. Rhoda B. Lip-,
man and Mrs. Lizzie K. Crismon worked
very diligently in this Committee, and they
are justly entitled to praise from those in-
terested in the Utah exhibit


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


N. W. R. S.
	DEPARTMENT CONGRESS OF THE
NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY.
	Department Hall, No. VII, of the Mem-
orial Art Palace, Michigan Avenue, facing
Adams Street, near the centre of Chicago,
Friday, May 19, 1893. Morning session,
10 o’clock.
	(Program of Exercises.)
Music, Voluntary,			Kate Romney.
Congregational Hymn,
	“O My Father, Thou That Dwellest.”
Prayer,				Sarah M. Kimball
Opening Address,		Zina D. H. Young
Relief Society,		Jane S. Richards
Women in Medicine, 	Ellis R. Shipp, M. D.
Pioneer Women of Utah,   1847-48,
					M. Isabella Horne
The Children,			Zina Y. Card
Song,  “Our Mountain Home So Dear,”
					Cornelia H. Clayton
Amusement of the early days (Paper)
						Nellie Little
Western Women, Authors and Journalists.
(Grain Saving by Women)
					Emmeline B.Wells
Types of Women,
					M. Hughes Cannon, M. D.
Impromptu,			Emily Shurtliffe
Industrial Women,		Electa Bullock
		Doxology and Benediction.


[Column 1]
PASSING THOUGHTS

	THE TEMPLE—The great event has
come—it is passing. Daily thousands of
people pass within the sacred walls, gaze
with wonder and admiration, join with
faithful hearts in the grand inspiring
prayer, hearken to the soul-stirring music
of the choir and the interesting and pro-
phetic words of the Apostles, join in the
hosannahs to God and the Lamb and pass
down the granite steps, without the portals, 
scarcely realizing that hours have passed,
for so rapt are they in the events of the 
moment. During the week of the dedi-
cation I have gazed from my casement
windows towards the great edifice and 
watching the tall graceful towers, like
angels in the blue sky have lived over 
again those precious momentsspent within
the walls.
	Some say that places so beautiful, so
chaste, so sacred are fit dwellings for
angels and that their forms may be seen
and their voices may be heard, so almost 
divine is the feeling that prevades the soul
while enjoying the services in this holy
place.
	They are the angels of love and mercy,
of good will and charity, and in our hearts
alone do we feel their presence. This 
dedication is to the Saints the greatest event
for many years. How long we have
watched the building of the Temple and
as stone has been laid upon stone our faith
and prayers have been offered for the safe
and perfect completion of the building and
now that it is so handsomely completed
well may we feel proud and happy. The
Temple is so dear, so sacred to us all. How 
as a little child I remember the sight of the
great stones one at a time being hauled
along the streets by two yoke of oxen and 
we would all stand for them to pass with a
feeling of awe and reverence, and so in 
later years when the trains brought the
white stones by car loads I always stood 
and waited to see them pass with the same
feeling, again when visiting the quarries in

[Column 2]
the mountains I felt the same sensation,
and I am only one of thousands who have 
watched the rearing of those walls and
seemed to be a part of them, so much have
our thoughts dwelt upon and longed for
the day of completion.
	On the sixth of April, 1853, when the
corner stones were laid perhaps those dear
ones who took part in the services hoped
and believed to also take part in the dedi-
cation, but alas! how few are left, only three
of the apostles, one patriarch and one high
priest, some few of the choristers and 
musicians, can any of us of a later gene-
ration imagine the intense delight of them
at this time when they look back over
those forty years of temple building and 
now realize the consummation of their
hopes and prayers. The thought is beauti-
ful to me, it is almost heavenly, and I 
greatly enjoyed seeing the greeting of those
aged fathers and mothers within the blessed
walls, and marked the happiness in their
faces as they seemed to say, "it is finished,"
and as I watch them and think of them I 
feel to say God bless you and may you yet
live many years to enjoy that house your
labor and prayers and faith have built. How
well repaid the saints all feel when they
behold the elegance and grandeur of this
temple with its massive walls, its frescoed 
ceilings, its marbled and inlaid floors, its
elegantly wrought and carved founts and 
baths, its soft carpets, its dainty hangings, 
its art windows, its exquisite furnishings all
blending and combining making a Temple
perfect and complete beyond compare.

	MUSIC:—During the temple dedication
the people of Utah had a wonderful and 
beautiful revelation concerning the divine
art. Did any of us really know before the
talent of our musicians? From the morn-
ing of the first meeting, when the three
hundred trained voices, under the baton of
our admired Evan Stephens, peeled forth 
those beautiful anthems and hymns until
the close of the three weeks during which
not only the Salt Lake choir but also the 
choirs of Utah, Weber, Cache and Sanpete
Counties sang for us there was a continual
and delightful surprise. The capability of
the Utah choirs has long been known and 
commented upon and their renditions of
difficult music have been much admired,
not alone by our own people but by 
strangers who have visited us,and our choir
leaders have had many deserved compli-
ments but their fame as composers has not
been so widely known. Surely all who
listened to the divine and inspiring strains
during the conference will no longer doubt 
their ability to compose and will bestow
just praise on all. The words alone, so 
appropriate and sweet, the music tender yet
sublime and the most perfect rendition 
made a feast for the soul.
	There was not a little surprise afforded us,
when we learned that the beautiful words
of one of the anthems, was composed by 
Miss Domettie Smith, daughter of Prest.
Jos. F. Smith, a young woman so modest
of her talents that this is the first public
use she has made of them and what a 
glorious occasion it was; surely it was well
chosen.
	The concerts in the large tabernacle af-
forded much pleasure to our visitors as well
as ourselves. Being a people gathered
from all parts of the world it is very de-
lightful to listen now and then to the
national songs of our native lands,especially
when so enthusiastically sung by our little

[Column 3]
children. Our own dear song, “The Star-
spangle Banner," is always new,though we
heard it every hour and the heart beats a
response to every word like a martial ac-
companiment. If ever I lived in another
land and that land became my home I know
that the words and notes of that song would
bring the tears from my eyes,the sighs from
my heart, at the same time my soul would
throb with pride and joy at the thought of
that precious flag. Feeling all this I know
that others feel the same and it was a 
happy thought to have the national concerts
at this time for every Englishman loves
to listen to the strains of “Rule Brittania,”
the Irish weep at the thought of "The
Dear Little Shamrock,” the sturdy Scott is
ever proud of “Auld Lang Syne,” and so
do the Welsh, the Swede, the Dane and
Swiss, the German, the Italian and the
French love their native land and all that
calls forth sweet memories of it. Truly
asks the poet:
	Is there a man with soul so dead
	Who never to himself has said,
	This is my own, my native land.
	Of all the national airs the one most
widely known and sung in other countries,
not its own, is the song of France—"The
Marseillaise," and the history of this won-
derful hymn recently published in music
is so interesting that I shall glean the
principal points for the EXPONENT. 'On
the 20th, of April, 1792, France had de-
clared war on Austria and Prussia and a 
feeling of intense patriotism pervaded the
French empire. Four days later the may-
or of Strassburg gave a banquet and
among the guests was Claude Joseph
Rouget de Lisle, captain of engineers, a 
young man popular and some what noted as
an amateur poet and musician. The host 
asked the captain if he could not write a 
war song for the departing volunteers and 
Rouget de Lisle answered yes, and went 
home. That whole night he sat at his 
desk, and when the morning of April 25th
dawned the "Marseillaise" was finished.
It was the result of one night's work and 
he called it the war song of the army of the
Rhine. On that very day it was played by
a full orchestra on the market place in 
Strassburg, and the "Marseillaise" cele-
brated its first triumph. The northern
wing of the French army brought the song
with them to the seat of war and copies of
it were quickly scattered over the whole of
Alsace. In Paris it remained unknown for
some time. First it must pass through
Marseilles. In June, 1792, the council of
Marseilles had collected a number of volun-
teers who understood how to die and whose
moral worth was generally such as to
deserve death. These Marseilleans were
feasted by their fellow citizens on June 25.
A citizen by the name of Mireaux from
Montpelier, rendered Rouget de Lisle's
song, the enthusiasm it created was tre-
mendous and on the following day a leading 
journal of the city printed the song under 
the title, "The war song of the frontiers.'
	The soldiers of Marseilles who went to
Paris brought copies of the song with them
and sung it while entering Paris July 13th, 
and again in August while the Tuilleries
were stormed it was sung by the whole
populace. In Paris, where the history of 
the song was unknown, it was called 
'Hymn des Marseillaise;' this became its
final name. As 'La Marseillaise' it is not
alone the patriotic song of the French
Republic, but the song of liberty or rather
of revolution for the whole world. There


are various opinious about the origin of this
song and many believe it to have been
really of German origin, the latest researches
however would show it to have been taken
from an oratorio called Esther by Grison
and thus of French origin.”
	The Marseillaise is now a hundred years
old. It is sung in every land and grows in
popularity every year. It is one of those
things that can never die. 	
	CAMELIA.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NATIONAL RELIEF SOCIETY.

	THERE was a semi-monthly meeting of
the National Woman’s Relief Society held
at Social Hall on State street, in this
city, on Tuesday April 5th, at 7 o’clock in
the evening. President Zina D. H. Young
in the chair, Vice Presidents Jane S. Rich-
ards and Bathsheba W. Smith were present
with her in the stand, and Emmeline B.
Wells, secretary. There were of the board
of directors a sufficient number for the trans-
action of business and a goodly number of
members. The constitution and by-laws
were read by the secretary; also the min-
utes of the meeting held at the time of the
incorporation.
	Remarks relating to the business of the
meeting and the benefits that would be
derived through the incorporation were
made by President Mrs. Young, and
Vice-President Mrs. Richards.
	The first business was the filling of va-
cancies in the board of directors caused by
the death of Elizabeth Howard and Harriet
D. Bunting since October last.
	Mrs. Adeline S. Barber of Logan was
elected to fill Mrs. Howard’s place in the
board and Mrs. Harriet Y. Brown of Kanab
to fill the place of Mrs. Bunting.
	Fifteen new members were admitted by
vote, and several of the ladies present spoke
briefly upon matters of importance connect-
ted with the organization.
	On Wednesday evening the annual con-
ference of the Relief Society was held at
the same hour, 7 p. m., in the same place,
at which the president, Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young, presided. There was a very full
attendance, the house being crowded to
overflowing. Verbal reports were made by
presidents and representatives from many
parts of the Territory also from adjacent
states and territories and from Canada and
Mexico.
	Susan E. Martineau, the representative,
had come four thousand miles to attend the
meetings and conferences at headquaters;
other representatives had come from Canada,
New Mexico, Arizona, Colorado, Idaho,
Wyoming and other far distant places.
	In addition to reports, interesting
speeches were made by the president and
vice-presidents. The conference was con-
tinued on Thursday evening at the same 
place with a full attendance, and other
representatives made reports. Mrs. Burton,
of Arizona, told some very interesting
things concerning the Lamanites in Arizona,
among whom there seems to be great im-
provement.
	Mrs. M. A. Winters, of Pleasant Grove, 
made some explanations concerning a work
she was doing for those who had suffered
during the journeyings and persecutions
of the Saints.
	E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


MRS. EAST’S VISIT

	THE many friends of Sister Willmirth
East, President of the Relief Society of St.
Joseph Stake, will be glad to learn that she
arrived in Salt Lake City, April 1st, enjoy-
ing good health, and buoyant in spirits, and
finding her loved ones waiting with tear-
dimmed eyes and open arms to meet her.
She has enjoyed herself very much in the
meeting with dear old friends during the
conference, and with joy exceeding and full
of glory for the privilege of attending the
dedicatory services of the most holy and
beautiful Temple, in honor of the God of
srael, which is glorious beyond description.
She attended the general conference of the
Relief Societies, and gave a favorable report
of the labors of the sisters, and also atten-
ded a meeting of the officers of the Y. L.
M. I. A. held April 5th, and reported the
associations to be in a flourishing condition.
Said since the visit of President B. H.
Roberts, there had been a decided improve-
ment and have felt more of the spirit of the
Lord than for years past, reported the
health of the people of the St. Joseph Stake
to be better than it ever had been previously
since the valley was settled. She will visit
the central board and attend the conference
of the Primary Associations while she is in
Utah, and other meetings wherever she is
invited and able to go. Her friends and
especially the sisters are delighted to see
her and hear her welcome voice once more.


W. S. A. SALT LAKE CO.

	THE regular monthly meeting of the
Salt Lake Co. W. S. A. convened in the
13th Ward Assembly Rooms, April 18th,
1893. Pres. Nellie C. Taylor ln the chair.
Opened by singing, “New America.’’
Prayer by Vice Pres. Elizabeth M. Price,
Singing, “Help the Working Women.’’
Roll called and minutes of previous meeting
read, amended and accepted.
	Vice Pres. Elizabeth M. Price suggested
that each one express her ideas; she won-
dered if something could not be thought of
to make the meetings more interesting, and
draw people out. Spoke of visiting people
at their houses, found they did not under-
stand these subjects, thought if they were
explained, more interest would be taken.
Spoke upon the law of consent. Mary P.
Silver gave her experience in visiting peo-
ple, not very satisfactory. Susanna Water-
fall thought women could do a great deal
of good, asked the Lord to prosper this
understanding. Mary A. Irvine said she
was heart and soul in suffrage, wished more
would attend the meetings, thought people
had wrong ideas concerning it, if women
could vote we would not have so many
dens of infamy.
	Julia Druce like the rest was a true suf-
fragist, did all she could to help the cause in
talking with others, thought we should
gain each other’s confidence, and should
ntroduce these subjects in other meetings
and sociables. May Talmage was interes-
ted in suffiage, she had also visited around
soliciting names, thought the greatest point
to be gained was to get people to under-
stand what suffrage was, hoped we would
get the interest revived. Had always en-
joyed the meetings, they were for our own
benefit, thought the more we came the
more we would want to.u
	Ella W. Hyde thought if we were united
in trying to create an interest in the meet-


ings we could make them a success. We
should each try to bring a new member.
	Pres. Nellie C. Taylor said that woman
was her own enemy in speaking against suf-
frage, they did not understand it, we do
not want to hold the reins but we should be
true to each other and uphold women and
seek to elevate man kind, thought it a good
dea for each one to bring a new member.
Meeting stood adjourned until the third
Tuesday in May.
	ELLA W. HYDE, Sec. pro. tem.


OUR BOYS AND GIRLS.

	WHAT shall we do with our boys and
girls too, for that matter? is a question that
is agitating the minds of hundreds of par-
ents in Utah today. I mean the poorer
classes. We make every effort and sacrifice
to educate them to some extent, and when
they become fifteen or sixteen years of age,
we need their assistance and it is time that
they should commence to take a part in the
great battle of life. “For life is real, life is
earnest.” Our girls are not all fitted by
nature for household drudgery, though they
should understand house-keeping in all its
details. If we send them to Salt Lake City
to work at anything, our minds know no
peace, for there is every allurement and
fascination to lead them astray. Why
should one dollar lay idle, when there is so
much to be done? Why do not our capital-
ists invest? Why should we import our
gloves, cotton hosiery, ribbons, corsets,
underwear, and hundreds of other articles
too numerous to mention. May the time
speedily come when some enterprising, pub-
lic-spirited, magnanimous men will start
such industries in outside settlements to
afford employment for our young people
that we may keep them at home. We
have everything in Utah to make us self
sustaining, if Utah will work for Utah.
Suppose our capitalists do not amass thous-
ands of dollars, they will have the satis-
faction of knowing that their works will
live long after they have passed to that
bourne from which no traveler returns.
	E. H. L. MURRAY, S. L. Co.

	MISS HULDA LUNDIN, directress of Sloyd
in the public schools of Stockholm, is the
only woman sent officially by the Swedish
government to the World’s Fair. She will
make an exhibit there of the system. 
	AMONG the musical compositions on the
programme of the dedicatory exercises of
the Woman’s Building at the World’s Fair
are a dramatic overture by Miss Frances
Ellicott, of London, and the “Jubilate” for
mixed voices and orchestra, written for the
occasion by Mrs. H. H. A. Beach, of
Boston.
	MRS. MAUD HOWE ELLIOTT goes to
Chicago on business connected with the
publication of the book on the Woman’s
Building and its exhibits at the World’s
Fair, which she is now compiling and edit-
ing. It will contain an introduction by
Mrs. Palmer, president of the Board of
Lady Managers; a chapter on the building
and its decorations, by Mrs. Elliott; a
paper by Mrs. Julia Ward Howe on various
Associations of Women; one by Mrs. Ednah
D. Cheney on Education; one on Literature
by Mrs. Laura E. Richards; one on Women 
in Science by Mrs. Louise P. Hopkins, and
contributions by other writers on various
branches of decorative art. The volume
will be profusely illustrated.


THE ornaments of a home are the friends
who frequent it.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R.S. REPORTS.

JUAB STAKE.

    THE Quarterly Conference of Juab Stake
Relief Society was held at Nephi, March
19th, 1893. President Mary Pitchforth
presiding, after opening exercises, of sing-
ing and prayer, President Pitchforth address-
ed the conference, referred to the first
organizations in Nauvoo, fifty-one years
since, spoke of the circumstances of those
early days, felt thankful for these as-
sociations; spoke of  the circumstances of those
early days, felt thankful for these as-
sociations; spoke of the dedication of the
Temple, of the benefits and blessings
that we may derive therefrom, urged the
sisters to look into their hearts that there be
no feelings or obstacles in the way to pre-
vent them recieving a blessing.
    Sister Ann Wilhey represented the South
Ward of Nephi, the officers and teachers
were faithful and diligent in preforming
their duties, the poor, were well provided
for. Had a great desire to attend the dedica-
tion of the Temple.
    Counselors Amy L. Bigler expressed
thankfulness at being present, sickness pre-
venting her meeting with us for some time,
desired an interest in the prayers of the
society, that she may ever be faithful to the
cause, and do the will of her Heavenly
Father continually. Sister Rebecca Udall,
praised the energy and faithful labors of the
sisters of the North Ward of Nephi, her
faith in the Gospel had never faltered, desired
to be present at the dedication of the Tem-
ple of Temples.
    Counselors Hannah Jones, urged the
sisters to criticize their hearts that no wrong
feelings exist therein, bore a faithful testi-
mony to the religion we are engaged in.
    Sister Bessie Kendall and Sister Elizabeth
Miller rejoiced in the work, desired to live
firm and faithful.
    Mrs. Langley Bailey then read resolu-
tions of respect gotten up by the sisters of
the Juarez Relief Society, Mexico, in
memory of our beloved friend and Sister,
Matilda E. Teasdeal. 
    Bro. Charles Sperry felt that each as-
sociation were mutually interested together
for the same cause, desired those that
should go to the Temple to have their
lamps trimmed and burning, hoped none
that felt themselves unworthy would enter
that holy Temple, felt that the Spirit of
God was in our midst.
   Prest. Pitchforth spoke of the non repre-
sentations of the Juab, Levan and Eureka
branches, the unfavorable weather having
prevented their attendance, had recently
visited the branches,they were in a flourish-
ing condition, all seemed to enjoy the spirit
of their callings, felt to rejoice in the hum-
ble spirit of our meeting, prayed that the
Spirit of God might rest on all present.
    Bishop Warner felt that all who entered
the Temple would recieve a blessing there-
from, exhorted all to live up to their
priveleges. Sister Bessie Kendall was set
apart as first Counselor and Emma Cole as
second Counselor of the North Ward of
Nephi.
    The Spirit of God was poured out in
rich abundance upon the speakers and an
humble forgiving spirit prevailed with all
present. 
   Benediction vas pronounced by Patriarch
Udall. Conference adjourned for three
months.
			ELLEN L. GOLDSBROUGH.
				                Stake Sec. R. S.


SANPETE.

	THE Relief Society Conference of the
Sanpete Stake of Zion held in Ephraim,
March 11, 1893. Counselor Sarah Petersen
presiding. Singing, "O give me back my
Prophet dear." Prayer by Bro. R. N.
Allred. Singing, "Prayer is the soul's
sincere desire." Statistical and financial
report of the Relief Society of the Stake
read, also a letter from President M. A. P.
Hyde. The Relief Society of Mt. Pleasant,
Fairview, Fountain Green, Ephraim and
Fayette were each reported as being in a
flourishing condition. Counselor Minerva
W. Snow felt that we had been edified by
the sisters that had spoken. Said here be-
fore me are some of the children of our
Father in Heaven and those who are striv-
ing to keep the commandments of God.
Seek unto the Lord in humility. The
Relief Society was organized by the
Prophet Joseph. We are working with
men who hold the Holy Priesthood. We
are wonderfully blessed by having the
privilege of working in the Holy Temple.
Spoke at some length of her labors in the
Manti Temple. Advised us to study our
duties to the best of our ability and ask the
Lord to assist us. We should prepare our-
selves that we may be worthy of going in-
to the Salt Lake Temple. Let us be hum-
ble and prayerful continually that we may
be counted worthy of the blessings of our
Heavenly Father. If we see a sister that
seems to be on the downward track, let us
go to her and speak kindly and try to lead
her in the right path. She may have had
trials that have been hard to bear. Ex-
horted us to try and be more united and
strive to live lives of holiness.
	Apostle Lund expressed his pleasure in
meeting with the sisters in their conference.
Said, "We do not live this life only. A
greater object is in view, viz., eternal life."
	The good you do here is preparing you
for hereafter. In doing good you bless
yourself as well as your husband. Do not
speak of the evils of others but be kind and
charitable to all. Strive to help bear the
burdens of others and your own will be-
come lighter. Blessed the sisters in all
their endeavors to do good. Sister M. W.
Snow requested the sisters to remember
Sister M. A. P. Hyde in their prayers.
Counselor Sarah Peterson exhorted us to all
diligence in keeping the commandments of
God. Said we did not comprehend the day
in which we live, that we have the privilege
of going into the Temples.
	Sister Helen Armstrong was unanimousiy
sustained as the corresponding secretary of
the Stake. Conference adjourned for three
months. Choir sang, "We thank thee O,
God, for a Prophet." Benediction by Bro.
N. Christensen.
		MARY ANN FRANTZEN, Stake Sec.


BEAVER STAKE.
	THE quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of this Stake was held in the L. D.
S. Meeting House, Beaver City, Aug. 6th,
1892.  President Lucinda Howd presiding.
	After the usual opening exercises the
local Presidents reported their respective
branches of the Relief Society as being in
good condition and doing all they could to
fulfill their mission.  The statistical and
financial reports were then read.  The bal-
ance of the time was mostly occupied by
Mrs. Elizabeth Howard and Mrs. Ardella
Eardly.  Such topics as:  keeping minutes
properly, punctuality, the necessity and


efficacy of prayer, cleanliness, taking the
EXPONENT,sustaining the Deseret Hospital;
and teaching our children obedience to the
priesthood and the law of tithing, Word of
Wisdom, observance of the Sabbath and
fast days, were treated by these sisters in a
very pleasing and instructive manner.  We
enjoyed the visit and their instructions very
much and hope they will come again soon.
	President C. D. White was pleased with
the counsel we had had.  Thought if it
were carried out our lives would be happier
and more useful.  The Stake officers were
unanimously sustained by the conference as
follows:  Lucinda Howd, Pres.  S. M.
Dell, 1st Coun.  Lydia White, 2nd Coun.
Louissa Jones, Sec.
		LOUISSA JONES, Stake Sec.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	MRS. FENWICK MILLER will attend the
World’s Congress of Representative Women
as an official Representative from the
Women’s Franchise League of England,
and will deliver an address upon “Wives
and Mothers: Their Civil Duties,” in the
Department Congress of the National
American Woman Suffrage Association.
	“SOME of our most celebrated women
are going over to Chicago for “The World’s
Fair.” Among them are Mrs. Fenwick
Miller, the distinguished authoress, journa-
list and lecturer. Mrs. Miller will doubtless
write an account of the Fair for some of the
London papers, and I am glad to hear that
she is also going to show the Americans
how an Englishwoman can speak. Among
our platform speakers Mrs. Miller is almost
supreme. She is never nervous, she has
a good presence, an excellent manner, and
a beautiful voice. And she has the subtle,
incommunicable art of being able to enchain
the attention of large crowds of people. I
believe she proposes to be absent for about
two months. I wonder if she will intro-
duce to Brother Johnathan her lecture on
London Society? I fancy it would prove
one of the most popular lectures ever de-
livered in America.”
	From the “Hearth and Home” of Eng-
land.
	NOT long since the Roman Church was
the only one to observe the Easter season,
but of late years the custom has spread all
over the Christian world and at Easter tide
the churches vie with each other in their
beautiful floral decorations, trailing vines
and potted plants are on every side, but the
flower most used for the Easter decoration
is the fair tall Easter lily. In Bermuda at
this time of the year there are vast fields of
these glorious lilies bowing and swaying in
the April winds. What a wonderful sight
this would be to us who so admire but rare-
ly see this graceful flower.
	'If I only could write the colors
		Of the lilacs towering plumes,
	And make you feel in a sentence
		The spell of its sweet perfumes.”
	APRIL—the month of hope the month of
promise. How we laugh in its sweet sun-
shine, how we weep it its soft rains. What
fanciful thoughts possess us as we watch the
purple glow in its twilight—thoughts of old
folk’s love— sweet memories of the past fill
our soul and with the setting sun tears fall
from eyes that but a moment since were
radiant with smiles.
How sweet the poet sung who said, “My
love is like an April day, all smiles all
tears.” It is the month dear to the heart,


so tender, so gentle, like a little child it
seems, and every bud on the trees, every
leaf, every blade of grass is tenderly
watched for, do they not refresh the sight
after the long cold barren winter. How
eagerly we listen for the first sweet notes of
the “meadow lark” and how gently we turn
the soil for the first sight of the fragrant
violet, then to rejoice when the dark green
leaves and fair purple blossoms of the stately
lilac bush present themselves. Dear, ten-
der April we welcome thee.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		MISCELLANEOUS.
	NO wound can be so deep as the one
inflicted by a friend.
	BETTER three hours too soon than one
minute too late.—Shakspeare
	THE supreme fall of falls is this—the
doubt of one’s self.—Countess de Gasparin.
	It is our own vanity that makes the van-
ity of others intolerable to us.—Rochefou-
cauld.
	SLANDERS are like flies that pass over a
man’s good parts to light upon his sores.—
Rule of Life.
	THE love that has no form of expression
may be very deep and true, but it is practi-
cally useless.
	A WOMAN'S sympathy, instead of scorn,
should go out to one of her own sex who
has gone wrong. 
	IT will be an ill day when we are so en-
gaged in seeking lost sheep that we forget
the lambs.—Spurgeon.
	I SUPPOSE it’s a bit hard to think any-
thing’s over and gone in our lives; and
there’s a parting at the root of all our joy.—
George Eliot.
	INVIOLABLE fidelity, good humor, and
complacency of temper outlive all the
charms of a fine face and make the decays
of it invisible.—Tatler.
	CHARITY is a principle of prevailing love
to God and good will to men which effectu-
ally inclines one endued with it to glorify
God and to do good to others.—Gruden.
	SINCERITY is to speak as we think, be-
lieve as we pretend, act as we profess, per-
form as we promise, and really be what we
would seem and appear to be.—Rule of
Life.
	CHILDREN have always a sympathy in
the agitations of those connected with them;
always, especially, a sense of any trouble or
impending revolution, of whatever kind, in
domestic circumstances.—Hawthorne.
	THE noblest contribution which any man
can make for the benefit of posterity is that
of a good character; the richest bequest
which any man can leave to the youth of
his native land is that of a shining, spotless
reputation.
	ONE of the easiest things in the world is
to find fault, and in no place are there so
many opportunities for doing so as in the
home. There are so many little things
occuring daily in any good-sized family;
such as misplacing a garment, leaving a
door ajar, and a thousand and one trivial
things that readily provoke the fault-finder.
	Few people would be willing to answer
“present” to the roll call of fault-finders.
Indeed, so insidious is the ugly fault when
once formed that it blinds its victim to the

[Column 2]
﻿possibility of seeing his own faults. So
busy with the faults of others he has no
time to attend to his own.
	Like all elements of character, fault-find-
ing starts as a very little thing, and then
grows. The habit of criticising friends,
neighbors, people at church, the preacher—
all these are the beginning of the chronic
fault-finder’s education. A genuine, Chris-
tianized love for one’s fellow-men will soon
do away with all fault-finding.


MARY E. ERICKSEN.

	ONCE more we are called upon to record the
death of one of our young ladies, who died Nov.
24, 1892, Mary E. Ericksen. She was born at
Round Valley, Morgan County, September 16,
1874, and was at the time of her death eighteen
years two months and eight days old.
Desceased was a member of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints and a teacher in the
Sunday School, she was the daughter of Michael
and Mary E. Ericksen; her death caused a cloud
of gloom to come over us; and at the Sunday
School resolutions of respect were adopted.
	Resolutions in memory of Mary E. Ericksen
who departed this life Nov. 24, 1892:
	Whereas, an Allwise Providence has in his wis-
dom and in a sudden and unexpected manner taken
from our midst by death our beloved sister and
col-aborer Miss Ericksen, and
	Whereas: we the members of the Willard
Sabbath school, while humbly submitting to the
will of Heaven feel it a duty to express our ap-
preciation of her labors and our sorrow at her
seemingly untimely death.
	Resolved I. that the faithfulness and energy
manifested by her in her labors in the Sunday
School, Y. L. M. I. A. Choir, and the Ward be
held in grateful remembrance.
	Resolved II that in her death this Sunday
School has been deprived of one of its faithful
teachers and the Ward of one of its promising.
members.
	Resolved III. that we share the heavy burden
of sorrow which weighs upon her relatives, and
extend to them our heartfelt sympathy in the sad
bereavement.
	Resolved IV. that these resolutions be kept in
the record of the Sunday School and that copies
be sent to her parents and to the county papers
for publication Jas J. Chandler, Ellen Ward and
Jane Hubbard, Committee.

		"We miss thee from our home dear,
			We miss thee from thy place,
		A shadow o’er our life is cast,
			We miss the sunshine of thy face.
		We miss thy kind and willing hand,
			Thy fond and earnest care,
		Our home is dark without thee
			We miss thee everywhere.

		Peaceful be thy silent slumber,
			Peaceful in thy grave so low,
		Thou no more will join our number, 
			Thou no more our sorrows know, 
		Yet again we hope to meet thee,
			When the day of life is fled;
		And in Heaven with joy to greet thee. 
			Where no farewell tears are shed.”
										M.


OBITUARY.

	DIED at Mill Creek Ward, April 11th, 1893,
Ann, wife of Patriarch Washington Lemmon,
daughter of John and Hannah Cook, born Dec.
29th, 1819, in Newthorpe, Nottinghamshire, Eng-
land. Emigrated to Utah in 1853. Resided in
Salt Lake City till the year 1860 then removed to
Mill Creek Ward where she resided until her
death.
	In Aug. 1877, she was chosen Counselor in the
R. S., June 24th, 1880. When the Primary As-
sociation was first organized in the ward, she was
elected President of the first District, the first
position she held until her demise, from the latter
by her request, she was honorably released May,
1890, on account of failing health, in each of
these positions, she was faithful in the perform-
ance of her duties.
	Sister Lemmon was very much interested in
Primary work, the children loved her and felt
grieved when she resigned.
	The Relief Society will feel the loss of this dear
friend,her counsel was ever fraught with wisdom
and encouragement, many times she has said,
there was nothing outside of Mormonism that


was of any interest to her, for therein was con-
tained everything that was pure and noble and
calculated to exaet the human family. At the
meeting held in March she was in her accustomed
place, but when the ladies met in April one month
later, and was informed that she had died that
morning, the deepest sympathy was felt by all
present.
	She embraced all the principles of the Gospel
as far as they were revealed to her, truly she
could say, I have finished the work Thou did’st set
me to do.
	Funeral services were held at the family resi-
dence, there was a large attendance of relatives
and friends to take part in the last sad rites of
the dear departed one.
	The remarks of those who spoke were very
consoling to the bereaved family.
	The remains were laid to rest in the ward
cemetery there to await the resurrection of the
just.
	The members of the Relief Society extend
their heart felt sympathy to relatives and friends.
There is consolation beyond the grave, the promise
of eternal life to those who love and serve the
Lord and obey His commandments.
								COUN.


DOCTOR MATTIE HUGHES CANNON,
	Office: II South, First West Street.
Office practice for Diseases of Women from 2
		until 4 p. m.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
	Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY-
	ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
	AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
	POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
No. 41 S.	 WEST TEMPLE STREET,
		Opp. Grant Bros. Stables.

	MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p. m.

R.K. THOMAS
	26,28,30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
	SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House

R.K.THOMAS

	DAVID JAMES & CO. 
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
he country promptly responded to.
DAVID JAMES, Box. 306. Salt lake City

	DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP, will commence
her summer class in Obstetrics and Nursing
on Monday May 1st 1893.
	Office and residence 34 East, 5th South
Telephone 383.


Mary [-]. P. Hyde
							   WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
﻿	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.			161
VOL. 21.					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1893.					No. 22.


CONTENTS:

	The Pilgrims. Silk Culture in Utah—Susan A.
Stringham. The Flower Garden—Flora. Pass-
ing Thoughts—Camelia. Women as Physicians
—Pharma rete. To My Dear Friend, Camilla C.
Cobb—Lydia D. Alder. Sandwich Islands Relief
Society—Mrs.Nellie Grace. King James of Eng-
land. Notes and News. Obituaries.

	EDITORIAL:—Spring Hints. Editorial Notes.

	POETRY:—A Memory of Spanish Fork Canyon
—Laura St Vrain. Little Marjorie—James Whit-
comb Riley. My Kate—Elizabeth Barrett
Browning.


A MEMORY OF SPANISH FORK CANYON.

	THE same old cedars crown the steep,
		Where evening splendors flame in gold;
	But the sad winds that never sleep,
		Sigh of some bygone grief untold,
	And all the restless waters weep:
		"A long farewell! O days of old!”

	Yet on a soft midsummer night,
		When larger burns the evening star,
	Set in a sky of ruby light
		Glooming to amythist afar;
	The mountains glow from height to height,
		And dreamland’s portals swing ajar.

	I hear the mountain torrent roar
		Through castled rocks and tangled vines,
	And watch the eagle rise and soar
		And wheel above the stately pines,
	Then downward sail to rise no more,
		Where the wild passion flower twines.

	Again my heart beats high as when
		The old enchantment ruled supreme:
	I roam the fragrant, dusky glen
		Where maples arch above the stream,
	Wooed by a southern wind, and then
		I wake, and find it all a dream.
						LAURA ST. VRAIN.


THE PILGRIMS.

	Our Pilgrim Fathers: Where could
there be found a theme more inspiring?
	The very name calls up feelings of
veneration and loyalty in the breast of
every true American. Their history is
full of interest, and abounds in deeds of
heroism, while the annals of their suffering
bring tears of pity to the eyes of anyone
endowed with sympathy for the distress of
their fellow creatures. To understand
thoroughly the causes that led to their
separating themselves from the parent
church, and abandoning their mother coun-
try, and the differences in their belief, we
must take a hurried review of some subjects
that have already been treated upon here.
The reformation in the 16th century gave
rise to many varieties of opinions, and an
astonishing change was wrought by the
preaching and labors of such men as Luther,
Calvin and others. But when all the cir-
cumstances and influences of that time are
considered, it is not surprising that good
men, honest and conscientious, held
opinions not altogether accordant on many
religious topics, and adopted practices and
views of the meaning of the Holy Scrip-
tures which produced dissension and diffi-
culty in the very earliest days of Protest-
antism. The Church of England is Pro-
testant as sympathizing with the protest
made in Germany, and Catholic as claim-
ing to be a portion of the universal apos-
tolic church of Christ. In the 16th century
its vassalage to Rome was broken off, and
since then the Roman church has main-
tained a hostile attitude towards it. The
Church of England has always had a
national character. Henry VIII., as every
student of history knows, was not much in-
fluenced by love of truth and purity in
what he did towards setting England free
from papal tyranny and superstition. He
had his own ends to serve, and looked
out for that in every step which he took.
If he did no good to Protestantism, if he
were a tyrant and a beastly tyrant too, he
certainly crushed under his heel the insolent
pretensions of the pope to rule over and
draw revenue from England, and in so
far at least, was an instrument in the hands
of God for beginning the good work in
England. During his reign the punish-
ment of death was decreed against all who
refused to acknowledge the doctrine of
transubstantiation. Edward VI. died
young, and unhappily before much could
be done for reformation. Mary succeeded
him, and very soon gave the English people
a bitter draught of that cup which Rome
has always made her victims quaff when
she has had them entirely under her con-
trol. It is said that more people were ex-
ecuted during her reign than in all the
reigns before or since. Elizabeth came to
the throne with a large share of her father’s
imperiousness, and with energy and ability
probably unsurpassed by any monarch that
has ever, as yet, guided the destines of
England. She was fond of show and dis-
play in religious things, and was determined
that the established church should have

[Column 2]
all the advantage and dignity which these
could afford. She was conscientiously op-
posed to popery, and equally indisposed to
the bold, stern simplicity of the Puritanical
worship. She had no liking for those who
opposed her views, and held a tight hand,
during all her reign, over the heads of those
who pleaded further reformation and larger
liberty than the Church of England had
ever been willing to allow.
	Under James and Charles we still find
the same difference of opinion, and the
several opposing sects that had parted off
from the parent church in opposite direc-
tions, each contending for what they con-
sideredtheir rights. The Puritans had no
more notion of toleration than any other
party; its object, like that of every other
party of those times, was not the mere
toleration, but the exclusive establishment
of its own system. But every change,
every debate, helped to bring about religious
toleration in the end, and as the Puritan
movement was largely a movement against
arbitrary authority, it was necessarily a
movement in favor of freedom. The Puri-
tans planted themselves upon the open,
naked Bible, as the only safe chart and
guide in religious and civil duties and
obligations, and scouted at all tradition,
without exception, as certainly the rem-
nants of popery and superstition. The
Church of England adherents, while, they
freely and fully declared that the Holy
Scripture contains all things necessary to
salvation, yet claimed that deference was
due to the testimony and practice of the
primitive church, and were willing to
yield respect to what they deemed primi-
tive tradition and the unanimous consent of
the fathers and doctors of the first ages.
They counted ceremonies such as were re-
tained in the Church as useful and edifying,
and calculated to help forward the cause of
truth and godliness. The Puritans com-
plained of all ceremonies as marring the
simplicity and purity of the Gospel. They
also denied the need of ordination by a
bishop in order to preach the gospel and
administer the sacraments, while the other
party refused them and have always refused
to allow any one to officiate in the Church
of England, unless he first receive order by
the laying on of a bishop’s hands. Some
very interesting productions written during
these controversies, may be found by those
who have the inclination to read them in
Milton’s L’Allegro, Il Penseron and Comus.
	Under James I. the Puritans asked to be
allowed, while remaining as ministers in
the church to omit certain ceremonies
to which they objected, but this
he would not agree to.
	The persecution now became so severe
that the Puritans could no longer endure it,
and a company of them fled to Holland,
where they could enjoy religious freedom.
They remained there, many others of their
faith continually joining them, during
twelve years. Their pastor, John Robin-
son, was a very worthy and honorable man,
and gave them such good care and instruc-
tion that they lived there in harmony and
peace for all those years. But they were


﻿loyal to England at heart, and disliked
the thought of having their posterity
merged into the Dutch nation. They were
ill at ease, and their thoughts turned to-
wards the New World, both on account of
their religion, and also on account of their
temporal advancement.
	About the 22nd of July, 1620, all who
were considered strong enough to endure
the hardships of pioneers, embarked on
board a small vessel, the Speedwell that had
been purchased in Holland, preparatory for
their long journey. The parting was very
affecting, their good pastor kneeling in their
midst, giving them his parting blessing,
and commending them to the care of God.
With many sad farewells and earnest hand-
claspings, they started on their remarkable
voyage. At Southampton, England, they
were joined by a larger vessel, the historic
Mayflower. The two vessels started,
but the Speedwell was found to be unsea-
worthy, and after putting back twice for
repairs, the Speedwell was finally abandon
ed, and all who could be accomodated
crowded into the Mayflower, and on Sep-
tember 6th, were finally launched on their
way. Their being obliged to leave part of
their number behind, here caused another
distressing scene of farewells. The voyage
was disagreeable and perilous in the ex-
treme. They encountered the equinoctial
gales, and for days were tossed about in an
almost disabled condition. To add to their
distress one of their number died and had
to be buried at sea.
	It was not until the 9th of November
that they came in sight of land. They
attempted to land in several places, but
were in danger of being swamped, and
after waiting for some time, finally found
their way into Cape Cod Harbor. The
Pilgrims were men of prayer, and asked
the Divine guidance and blessing on all
they did. On Saturday, November 11th,
religious services were held on board the
Mayflower, returning thanks to God for
His goodness to them, and imploring His
aid in the future. As there were some
signs of insubordination on board, it was
deemed advisable to enter into a voluntary
compact for self government. John Carver
was chosen governor for one year, and
Miles Standish captain, and the whole
number of men, who with their wives and
children amounted to one hundred and one
souls’ affixed their signatures to the follow-
ing document:
	“In the name of God. Amen. We
whose names are under-written, the loyal
subjects of our dread Sovereign Lord, King
James, by the grace of God, of Great
Britain, France and Ireland, King, defender
of the faith, etc.
	Having undertaken for the glory of God
and the advancement of the Christian faith
and the honor of our king and country, a
voyage to plant the first colony in the
northern parts of Virginia, do by these
presents solemnly and mutually, in the
presence of God and one another, covenant
and combine ourselves together into a civil
body-politic, for our better order and
preservation, and furtherance of the ends
aforesaid, and by virtue hereof to enact,
constitute and frame such first and equal
laws, ordinances, acts, constitutions and
offices, from time to time as shall be
thought most meet and convenient for the
general good of the colony; unto which we
promise all due submission and obedience.
	In virtue whereof we have here-under

[Column 2]
subscribed our names. Cape Cod, 11th
November, 1620.
	In the reign of our sovereign Lord, King
James of England, France and Ireland 18,
and of Scotland 54.”
	This, document was the germ of our free
and popular self-government, the benefits
of which cannot be too fully appreciated
even down to the present time.
			[To be Continued.]


LITTLE MARJORIE.

"Where is little Marjorie?”
There’s the robin in the tree,
With his gallant call once more
From the boughs above the door!
There's the bluebird's note, and there
Are springvoices everywhere
Calling, calling, carelessly,
"Where is little Marjorie?"

And her old playmate, the rain,
Calling at the window pane
In soft syllables that win
Not her answer from within—
"Where is little Marjorie?"
Or is it the rain, ah, me!
Of wild gust of tears that were
Calling us—not calling her!

"Where is little Marjorie?"
O, in high security
She is hidden from the reach
Of all voices that beseech;
She is where no troubled word,
Sob or sigh is ever heard,
Since God whispered tenderly—
"Where is little Marjorie?"
			JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY.


WOMAN S EXPONENT.


SILK CULTURE IN UTAH.

	THE silk industry was fairly started in
Utah as early as the year 1867.
	Mrs. Dunyon, a resident of Draper, went
to President Brigham Young and stated
that her father understood the raising of
silk and that she believed that it would
prove a profitable industry here as the
climate, etc., was everything to be desired
for the successful raising of the silkworm.
President Young had previously sent for
the seeds of the black and white mulberry
trees to France which he planted on one
of his farms called Forest Farm. He also
sent East for some silkworm eggs. Mrs.
Zina D. H. Young, who was for years
President of the silk association in Utah
taking charge of the same and that year
raising two hundred pounds of cocoons and
thirty-six ounces of eggs for another year.
	For several years the silk business proved
almost a failure and in 1872 it was taken
up by Mrs. Dunyon and myself, we meet-
ing with extraordinary success; we raised
about seven hundred pounds of cocoons
that year.
	I also learned to double and twist the
silk on a wool spinning wheel.
	The silk proved of first-class quality and
learned to raise silk in its crude state,
thouroughly understanding the different
processes from taking care of the eggs up
to preparing the raw silk for weaving, and
this in face of the fact that we had no
machinery of any kind. Mrs. Robertson
taught us how to double and twist and
spin the silk.
	As regards the feeding and raising of
silkworms the process is one in which
great care and attention is required.
	The moths or millers are placed upon
sheets of paper to lay their eggs, one mil-
ler will lay five hundred eggs or more.
	The eggs are left on the sheets
of paper and placed in a perforated box
until spring when the mulberry leaves be-
gin to grow ready for feed. The eggs have
to be kept warm until they are hatched,
when hatched they are about the size of a
point of a pin and being black they can just
be seen.
	You could then take what worms that
you could place comfortably on your hand
and they (placed on hurdles) when fully
grown would fill a room sixteen by sixteen
feet and eleven feet high.
	From the time the worms are hatched
until they are ready to spin is about five
weeks.
	They molt every five days and they are
changed every five days from one hurdle
to another, one half of the quantity being
placed on the hurdles as they increase in
size.
	When first fed the mulberry leaves are
broken up in small pieces and fed to
them, but as they increase in size whole
leaves and then branches are given, and the
last two weeks the worms have to be fed
day and night.

[column 2]
	When they have eaten and are ready to spin
they begin to hunt a place by throwing their
head around as though they were trying to
catch at something. Then we prepare
frames of lath, far enough apart for the
worms to crawl into, a double set of lath,
as it were, the worms seem to like the
roughness of the lath. They attach their
webb, something like a spider’s webb. only
thicker to form their cocoons in, that is,
they hang themselves in the wall and build
all around, compressing themselves into
one quarter of their natural size, spinning
from the inside, until they are increased;
they then change, it takes from three to
four days to make a cocoon and then they
lay dormant about five days after the
cocoon is finished. You have to pick out
the largest cocoons for those that you want
to produce eggs, and in about five days they
come out as millers which mating produce
eggs for the next year. Those of the
cocoons that we wish to produce silk, we
put in the sun or an oven to kill the
chrysalis. Those that the millers come
out of are called perforated cocoons and the
thread being broken they cannot be used
for the finest silk but for an inferior grade.
	Now the cocoons in which the chrysalis
has been killed are ready for spinning, we
would take a dozen or twenty-five cocoons
according to the size of the thread we need
and putting the cocoons into boiling water
take a small cluster of broom straws and
beat the cocoons until you catch up the
threads and then hang the threads up on
a hook or a wire and run upon to the rest
ready for twisting.
	It was very difficult to feed them at
Forest Farm,as the mulberry trees were too
high.
	The mulberry trees should be raised in
brush and planted in rows and each row
should be cut every other year.
				SUSAN A. STRINGHAM.

	MISS MARGARET WINDEYER has been
appointed by the government of New South
Wales as a commissioner to the World’s Fair.
She is the daughter of Sir William Windeyer,
the senior Puisne Judge of the Supreme
Court of New South Wales, and will
represent the colony of which her father is
so distinguished a citizen.
	LADY HENRY SQMERSET has been re-
elected president oi the British Women’s
Temperance Association by a majority
of sixty-nine. There had been a strong dif-
ference of opinion on the matter,  Lady
Henry being regarded by the conservative
element as too radical on some subjects,
especially on woman suffrage. Her re-
election is a triumph for the progressive
party. The defeated minority withdrew
from the meeting.
	THE old Liberty Bell was greeted with
cheers all along the way on its route to
Chicago. When it arrived, the great crowd
cheered itself hoarse. As we read this
account we wondered whether the men who
cheered for the deeds for which this old
bell rang would themselves uphold the
claims of justice for women, who are dis-
franchised just as the colonists were, and
do it so nobly that for centuries the world
will give them glad welcome? We hope
so.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MY KATE.

SHE was not as pretty as women I know,
And yet all your best made of sunshine and
	snow
Drop to shade,melt to nought in the long trodden
	ways,
While she's still remembered on warm and cold days—
							My Kate.
Her air had a meaning,her movements a grace;
You turned from the fairest to gaze on her face;
And when you had once seen her forehead and
	mouth,
You saw as distinctly her soul and her truth—
							My Kate.
Such a blue inner light from her eyelids out-
	broke,
You looked at her silence and fancied she spoke;
When she did, so peculiar yet soft was the tone,
Though the loudest spoke; also, you heard her 
	alone—
							My Kate.
I doubt if she said to you much that could act
As a thought or suggestion; she did not attract
In the sense of the brilliant or wise; I infer 
'Twas her thinking of others made you think of
	her—
							My Kate.
She never found fault with you,never implied
Your wrong by her right: and yet men at her side
Grew nobler, girls purer, as through the whole 
	town
The children were gladder that pulled at her
	gown—
							My Kate.
None knelt at her feet confused lovers in thrall;
They knelt more to God than they used,that was 
	all:
If you praised her as charming, some asked what
	you meant,
But the charm of her presence was felt when she
	went—
							My Kate.
The weak and the gentle, the ribald and rude,
She took as she found them, and did them all
	good;
It always was so with her,see what you have!
She has made the grass greener even here with 
	her grave—
							My Kate. 
My dear one when thou wast alive with the rest,
I held thee the sweetest and loved thee the best:
And now thou art dead, shall I not take thy part
As thy smiles used to do for thyself, my sweet-
	heart—
							My Kate.
			ELIZABETH BARRETT BROWNING.


THE FLOWER GARDEN.
          
	THE blue heavens seem to smile upon a
dark and fretted land, and as the rays of
sparkling sunshine are thrown across the
surface, that land becomes brighter and
reflects the smile. The soft breezes of
spring note the meeting and wave congratu-
lations, and with the wind and the sunshine
the coldness leaves the soil and the earth is
ready for the tiller’s hand. We venture
from the sheltering house and gaze on the
surrounding landscape. ‘Tis but a thought
quickly executed to gather all signs of
debris and litter together and cart them
away. A huge bonfire made of the dry
weeds, the bits of paper, and other rubbish
around the yard is a delight to the children
and a speedy and happy way of getting rid
of it. The yard once cleaned, then the soil

[Column 2]
needs turning over, that the sun may re-
move the dense dampness, then a breaking
of the hard lumps and leveling the soil and
it lies ready for the seed. There are hun-
dreds of beautiful ways to arrange the
yard,and landscape gardening is become an
art. As a pastime there is nothing
pleasanter than the care of a flower garden.
Children so enjoy helping and if to them a
spot of the yard is given for them to plant
and weed and water not only are they pass-
ing the hours pleasantly but are at the
same time taking practice lessons in botany
and horticulture and assisting in beautify-
ing the home surroundings.
	Some talk about the old fashioned flowers.
is such a thing possible, does nature have
fashions? If so, give us those dear old
fashioned things and we will arrange them
for a background to this flower garden of
ours, for what garden path is complete with-
out the tall hardy hollyhock to brighten the
way and amuse the children with their
big fanciful flowers, and then the old
fashioned flowers are mostly annuals and
once in the ground require very little care.
As to trying to describe a flower garden, so
many sweet visions of these pretty spots
present themselves before me, and I should
like the time and space to describe severally
the dear old gardens I have seen, but alas!
there are so many. What home is com-
plete without its little garden and yet may
I be forgiven if I try to describe one I
know so well for it will be a guide perhaps
to us all. It lies in the pretty and thriving
town of Ogden, and a dear oid lady who
has worked many years at the loom and at
other hard labor, uutil her hands were hard
and rough, her body weak and tired, now
in her prosperous days enjoys beyond all
things else the care of her flower garden
and such a spot it is. She will take you
through her yard and point with such
pride to the arrangement and selection of
these pretty things. On either side of the
gate rises to greet you a tall and queenly
rose and along the path lies a border of
sweet alysum, candy tuft and the blue
lobelia, near the door on either side are
large round beds of geraniums,ever a favor-
ite flower especially for bright and showy
coloring, and we are told if one wishes to
have flowers all the year round to leave the
old plants in the ground and only slip them
for the winter the young slip will grow
sufficiently during the winter to supply
the next years beds, and thus one always
has healthy and flowering geraniums.
	Along the outer border are tall graceful
dahlias,and a deep and brilliant back ground
they make to the beds and clusters of
delicate daises, petunias, asters, marigolds,
larkspurs, mignonette, nasturtiums and
the sweet scented stocks and wall flowers
and the universal favorite the hearts-ease
or pansy. We touch a beautiful little pink
blossom and ask what it may be, “That is
an English primrose from my brother’s
garden,” and this sparkling white flower
pray what is that: “Oh! that is the evening
star, it opens its pretty face to the starlight
but the golden sun is too dazzling for its
dainty bloom: so you see I have flowers day
and night, summer and winter. In early
morning when I open the window to air
my rooms these beautiful morning glories
greet me’ and at night when I take a fare-
well look at my garden these little stars
seem to say good night, we will watch the
flowers until you come again." "A very pret-
ty garden” one might say, “but we haven’t

[Column 3]
a brother in England to send us primroses
nor are we near enough to a florists to get
the cuttings and roots of these pretty things
you describe. Perhaps not, but let me tell
you, just begin a garden if you have but a
single plant to put therein and when the
soil is ready look about you for something
to plant; in a meadow near by hidden
among the grasses are wild violets, true they
are not fragrant but their deep green leaves
and purple flowers are just as pretty, if not
so sweet, as the tame one and then perhaps
cultivation will produce the lacking quality.
I mean to try it, for my little girls have
planted them along the north side of the
house and this morning I counted seven
blossoms on one root and, strange to say,
those flowers were almost as blue as forget-
menots although the others were purple.
Do your boys or your neighbor’s boys go
into the canyons for wood? If so, have
them bring down a few young pines and
plant them in groups here and there in
your yard.
	The foliage is evergreen and if not so
fine as the Arba vitae, it or other imported
shrub is certainly a noble looking tree; and
while felling the wood get them to dig up
a few of those lovely columbines, no
gardener ever raised a lovelier flower than
this and it can easily be found in our
mountains, so also can long feathery ferns
but of course one must have a moist, shady
place for them. Now when the few wild
things are started see how quickly your
neighbors and friends will help you “Why
are you going to have a flower garden, let me
give you a few roots, I want to clear out my
beds and I have some seeds as well that
you may have.” I know some one will
say this to you for I myself started a
garden this summer and the little girls
brought home seeds from school that other
little girls had given them and I only
bought one lilac bush and now in less than
a month I have a long row of lilacs all
along the north front, nine bushes I believe;
and violet and pink roots, in plenty and I
never asked for a single one, but in a few
years I expect to help some one else from
these pretty plants for I love to see gardens
every where.
	There is a time of day when too early to
light the lamp and too late to work indoors
without it; one naturally seeks the garden.
It is that sweet dreamy twilight hour, and
that is the time of all others the garden
wants you most. The sun has left the
garden heated and thirsty and now in the
cool early evening an hour’s work in the
garden is a great delight. FLORA.


The fact  that an   English  duchess  has
been  sent  to   a  common  prison   for  six
months for contempt  of court,   has led  to
many  comments  of  approval  that justice
was no   respecter  of persons  in   England.
But it is, all  the  same,  when the  offender
is of  the  other  sex.   While  the   Duchess
goes to prison for  a technical  offense Lord
Hastings, a dissipated rake,  and unworthy
of his great name, is fined a paltry  £50 for
the most despicable outrage upon a serving
maid which would  certainly  have sent   an
ordinary person to prison.
	MRS. ISABELLA BIRD BISHOP, the well-
known  traveler     and   writer   of books of
travel,   is the   first  woman  to deliver an  ad-
dress  before the British House of Commons.
She   was summoned   there to tell   what she
had   seen   of   the    Christians   in   Turkish
Koordistan.


WOMAN'S    EXPONENT.

 WOMAN'S    EXPONENT.

EMMELINE D. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camilia). -  Editorial Contributor.

	Published  semi-monthly,   in  Salt  Lake   City,  Utah.
Terms:  one copy one  year, $1.00   one  copy  six  months,
50 cts.   No reduction made for clubs.   City  papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage  one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates:. Each square, ten  lines of  nonpareil
space, one time. $2.50 per  month, $3.00.    A  liberal  dis-
count to regular advertisers.
 	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing,  Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I.    Business hours from
10 a.m.  to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER  WOMAN'S  EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered  at  the  Post  Office  in Salt  Lake City,  Utah, as
econd  class  matter.
SALT LAKE CITY - - - MAY 15, 1893


SPRING HINTS.

	IN the spring when nature puts on her
fresh and bright apparel, one longs also for
a change and as the warm days approach
we begin to plan lighter and fresher adorn-
ment both for the home and person.
	For wearing apparel there are so many
inexpensive materials in tweeds and serges,
in light colors, soft gray sand browns, tans,
and if one prefers, dark blues, that make
stylish and pretty gowns, but there is noth-
ing fresher or prettier than the ginghams,
and this year the patterns are especially
pretty in such bright contrasting colors in
plaids or stripes and best of all they wash
so clearly and nicely and are so cheap that
one can easily afford to be well dressed.
	Emptying out the wardrobes and folding
and laying aside the winter clothing and
wraps, to make room for the new lighter
clothes is rather a tiresome piece of work,
but if well done one fully appreciates it in
the fall, for it is such a comfort to take out
the warm clothing and find it all ready for
use, no mending, no buttons to sew on, and
best of all no moth-eaten places.  When
one is ready to lay aside the winter clothes
they should be properly mended and clean-
ly brushed and hung for a few hours in the
sun to make sure no moth is laid away 
with them, then carefully folded or rolled
and placed in a close box.  If one chooses a
little camphor or tobacco sprinkled among
them is good, but you will find black pep-
per will keep the moths out just as well,
still if the box is well made and a tight-
fitting lid there is not much danger from
moths.  If you have no chest for the clothes
a seamless sack will serve the purpose just
as well, and if you prefer, wrap in news-
paper first.
	Kerosene is taking quite a place in the
house work, but of course one must take
great care in the use of it.  Servant girls
are likely to misuse it, as an exchange said
lately, "five hundred things are made of
kerosene, including angels."  First of all
don't let the girl light the fire with it.
	A spoonful of it mixed with soap into a
soft soap and turned into the boiler will
make a soft suds for washing that cannot
be improved upon.  To clean the bath tub,
the sink and the zinc under the stoves it is
a great help and it adds a luster to the
tiles and hearth if used with the soap when
washing them.
	Just now when there is so much sickness
around, perhaps the readers of the
EXPONENT would like to know how to

[Column 2]
fumigate a room thoroughly and easily, and
I can give you a perfect and a proven
recipe.
	Close all the air holes, even the stove draft,
and throw all the bedding and clothes of
the room loosely on chairs or other furniture,
take a pound of sulphur and break it in
two or three pieces, place it in a tin plate
and place the plate on the bricks or in a pan of
water so there will be no danger of fire,
pour alcohol over the sulphur and light it,
light the one farthest from the door first
and move quickly so as not to inhale any of
the fumes, close the door tightly and leave 
the sulphur to burn.  It will be some hours
before the room can be opened and it is best
f possible to leave it a day and night, then
the following morning raise the windows
and let the air and sunshine in.  No gem
or bacilli can possibly live through that and
if this is carefully followed your room is
ready for cleaning and occupying again.


[Column 1]
	﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.

	MAY—The month of flowers, the month
of beauty. The hill sides are sweet with
the purple sweetwilliams and wild peas
and the fragrance of the fruit tree blossoms
greets one from the garden. Even now, in
this backward spring, the pretty peach
blossom and the fragrant plum and pear
beautify our gardens and nature is smiling
through the storm. Not only does the
beauty of the month of May touch the
heart but the thoughts that this month
bring to us of the loved dead; for always
when the flowers bloom do we long to
gather them and lay them on the graves,
’tis such a little thing to do for our dear
ones, only to take a few blossoms to their
resting place, but it is a tender remembrance
and that one day in all the long year should
be given to the dead is most fitting. True,
every day, the thoughts of the mourner are
with the loved and lost and many a pil-
grimage does she make to the sacred grave,
but Decoration Day is a day for all and the
heart’s sorrow is softened by the mingling
of other sorrows. Then the city of the
dead is a mass of color and as one views it
carpeted with roses and lilies and sweet
blossoms I am sure animosity and ill-feeling
are unknown and good will and affection
for our fellow men prevails throughout the
land. This beautiful day each year brings
us nearer heaven and heaven nearer us.
	Mme. Isabella Bogelot of France has
recently arrived in this country. She
comes to attend the Woman’s Congress at
Chicago as a delegate from the society of
the Liberated Prisoners of St. Lagare of
which society she is the Directress-general.
The notices of the arrival of this dis-
tinguished woman and the extensive descrip-
tions of her personal charms and her won-
derful work in the different eastern papers
proves her greatness as a public benefactor.
Mme. Bogelot began her public career in
1876 and in 1888 was elected Directress-
general. Since that time she has repre-
sented the society at several times abroad—
at the Roman Congress in 1885, at
Louisanna in 1887 and at the Council at
Washington in 1888. What of her charms
and her work? Her charms are her great
human sympathy and her kindly ministra-
tion especially for unfortunate women, and
her work is her continued labor for the
cause of her society. In her own words she
says, ‘‘Why I give my whole time to it,

[Column 2]
every day from morning until night and I
have been doing it for the last eighteen
years. She took a course in clinics so that
if cases of surgery or medicine should be
necessary while engaged in her philanthrop-
ic duties she would be found competent.
	No woman even in the lowest prison cell
is too degraded or too low for her kindly
ministrations; and she opens her arms and
her heart to the unfortunate and strives to
lift them to a brighter, nobler life with her
magnetic influence and deep spmpathy and
her own beautiful life. She has brought
hundreds of fallen women from their low
positions and taught them so that their
lives were no more dishonored that they no
more contemplated self destruction but
tried to live honestly and uprightly.
	The past winter in this city such a work
as Mme. Bogelots was begun. It is called
“The Rescue,’’and is a home for fallen wo-
men who wish to reform or for unfortunate
girls who have been led astray and desire
to retrace their steps and lead virtuous
lives. It is not a home for them to idle
away their time in useless repining nor is
it a reform school with iron bars and prison
rules but a real true home, where work is
provided both for the mind and the hands
and a moral atmosphere pervades. These
noble souls who saw the field for such a
society and felt to sacrifice their time to the
work of it must have the same instincts
and human love which has actuated Mme.
Bogelots and her associates. May their
success be such that the difficulties of the
work will not be heeded. It is sad to
realize that Salt Lake City should require
such a society. Not many years since the
sight of a drunken woman onthe streets
was unknown and at first if at rare
instances such a sight were seen it struck
the beholder with horror, but with the
opening of mines, the increase of railroads,
the advance of the city towards a metropoli-
tan plane, crime has also increased and with
it of course the necessity for such a society.
May the brave women who have organized
it find among themselves such a leader as
Mme. Bogelots, for then their work will
certainly become successful and their names
be ever great for the good that they have
done.
	THE young women are beating the young
men in McGill College, up in Montreal, too.
Although only eleven women are taking the
degree of B. A. out of a graduating class of
thirty-nine, yet out of eleven graduating in
honors six are women, and out of five
medallists three are women, showing that
in taking honors the women have, in propor-
tion to their number, done three times as well
as the men.


PASSING THOUGHTS.

	SOME people object to fairy tales and say
they are taught to deceive; for myself I
do not think so.  Aside from the entertain-
ment they offer there is always a moral and
usually a very good one connected with
them.  Generally speaking, people are not
very fond of moralizing, they object to
being found fault with or to having their
faults pointed out to them, but under the
guise of a charming fairy tale many a mor-
al lesson is taught and indelibly impressed
on the mind.  This truth was recently
most forcibly brought to my mind while
spending an evening with a most beautifu;
young lady, and I mean to repeat an old


[Column 1]
well-known fairy story with the moral I
learned the other night.
	Many years ago in the far country, there
lived a widow with two daughters, Rose
and Flora.  Rose was plain looking, while
Flora was most beautiful to behold.
	The mother was a vain, foolish woman
who desired wealth and position above
virtue and truth, and through this beautiful
daughter she hoped to obtain her worldly
desires, and she strained every effort and 
means within her power to advance Flora
and educate her, that she might become
the wife of a nobleman.  She caused Rose
much sorrow in that she made her toil and
work, and she had to wait on her sister
hand and foot, in fact Rose was a mere
servant while Flora was treated like a
princess. One day poor Rose, worn out
with hard work and her feelings having
been hurt by the scolding she received, be-
gan to weep and lament.  Just then an old
lady came to the door and asked for some-
thing to eat and a place to rest, she saw the
trouble in the house and the cause, and she
told the wicked mother that some day her
daughter Rose would become great and
beautiful and that every time she opened
her mouth to speak pearls and diamonds 
and precious gems would fall from her 
mouth, and whenever Flora spoke toads
and snakes would fall from her mouth.
The mother was naturally very angry and 
drove the old woman away, but sure enough
one day a prince stopped at the house on
his way through the forests for a drink.
Not knowing his high position, Flora in a
haughty, ill-mannered was replied she did
not wait on travelers, but Rose seeing an
opportunity to do some good, immediately
waited on the Prince who was very tired
and thirsty, and so sweet was her manner
and so gentle her way that he became in
love with her and asked her mother to
give her to him in marriage.  Not knowing
his rank and believing him to be only a
common traveler, Flora did not interfere
but great was her anger and dismay when
she learned her sister's husband was a prince,
and she became very bitter and never
used nice language but rude and sour and
wicked words always passed her mouth,
while her sister Rose became a great princess
and taught her people so much goodness,
and only words of kindness and truth and
wisdom ever left her mouth.
	Now of course everybody sees the moral,
but why tell the story now?  The point is
this, my young friends, though very beauti-
ful, it is not becoming to be too opinion-
ated and too free with slang and bitter e-
pressions.  When I was a little girl and
that story was told to me I used always to
shudder and turn cold at the thought of
snakes and toads dropping from anyone's 
mouth and I used fairly to suffer in my
feelings for that poor girl who was so cursed;
but do you know expressions of hate and
envy and malice have that same effect upon
me now.  No young woman, be she ever so
beautiful, can afford to use strong and un-
pleasant language.  I do not mean profanity,
that would indeed be dreadful, and I am
thankful to say I know no young woman
who is profane, but I have heard girls
speak very rudely and disagreeably and
when they do so, I always think of the
poor unfortunate girl in the fairy tale;
but how fortunate we are to know so many
girls whose every word is a gem.
	To be sweetly spoken is a beautiful gift
and no young lady can afford to be ill-
tempered and ill-spoken, for some day the

[Column 2]
prince will come along and the soft and
gentle words will touch the heart one longs
to know, while rude words only wound or
at least displease. CAMELIA.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Is it not about time that joking at the ex-
pense of public women should be stopped?
You can hardly take up a daily paper
throughout the land but you will find a
coarse fling at some earnest reformer, the
single woman of unavowed age, or the
mother-in law. Her age is a pebble in the
hand of every underwitted reporter to
fling at her. Her zeal is but the jeer of
triflers, whose influence in the world, com-
pared to hers, is less than the breath of a
broken bellows. Her individuality is mere
crankism in the estimation of striplings,
who, if they should live until Time him-
self grew gray, would never know one-
hundredth part as much as she did before
she learned the alphabet. Men who never
in this world, nor in the far-away possi-
bilities of the next, can hope to sprout a
soul, bandy jests at her expense; stale
witticisms are flung at her airily as old
boots are thrown at vagrant cats. Is there
nothing left for man’s veneration? Has it
come to pass that even the divine love of
motherhood, with all its tender patience
and jealous care, is without honor among
men? Our grandmothers tell us, as one re-
calls the legends of a forgotten past, that
there was a time when children were taught
to be reverent; when young men were
chivalrous and old men courtly, yielding a
beautiful deference to woman, as her right,
and to motherhood as to the coronation that
made a mother queen of heaven! Did you
ever stop to think, when you joined in the
laugh that followed some coarse minstrel
joke at a mother-in-law’s expense, of all
that is involved in that term? A mother
has received from heaven, heavens’
choicest gift—a precious child. She has
brooded over every moment of its infant
life; she has stood next to God in its help-
lessness; she has nursed it through terrible
illness; she has guided and controlled,
prayed away temptation and interposed her
own bosom between the shafts of sorrow
and its tender heart. The child has grown
to womanhood, dear as her own soul, as
necessary to her being as sunshine is to the
gaunt old earth—when lo! up steps a dap-
per youth and beckons her girl away.
Where love leads young feet will follow,
and the mother’s heart is bereft of its
treasure, given over to the care of a
stranger. I declare, when I think of it
I wonder there is a sane mother-in-law in
the world.


WOMEN AS PHYSICIANS.

WRITTEN for the U. W. P. C. June 27,1893
	This is a subject I feel incompetent to do
justice to as we find the pens of many of
our great writers busy extolling the women
physicians of today for the proficiency in
the science and art of medicine to which
she has attained. Nor can there be enough
said or written on this subject until it be-
comes acknowledged to be as necessary for
every girl and woman to be carefully trained
in the medical science, as it is for her to
learn to read and write. Woman is the
heaven-appointed guardian of infancy and
youth, and to her belongs the careful train-
ing in all that tends to elevate man
physically, as well as mentally and morally.


There is a mother aptness in woman that
naturally adapts itself to the conditions of
the sick room, especially do we see this in
women of experience.
	Health is the greatest earthly boon that
can be given to man, and the science that
teaches how to preserve and restore it
should be taught to those who mature,
bring forth, and nurture mankind in its
infancy. Anciently the care of women
was in the hands of women. We read
that midwifery was entirely in their hands
both among the Egyptians and the Heb-
rews. We have all read, no doubt, in
Exodus how the Hebrew midwives out-
witted the king of Egypt, when he de-
manded that they should kill all the male
children, "But the midwives feared the
Lord." They cared nothing whatever for
the great king of Egypt. "Therefore God
dealt with the midwives, and the people
multiplied and waxed very mighty."
There is no reason to suppose that those
women did not understand the science and
art they were practicing, for we find even
to this late day, carried out amongst that
people, physological principles and hygenic
laws, that have long since past into tenets,
or traditions of their faith; but to which
modern physiologists attribute the vitality
and hardihood of the race and especially
the health of their women.
	The Greeks and Romans conferred this
branch of medicine to women. Pharnarete,
the mother of Socrates, was a midwife, and
Plato explains the functions and mentions
the duties undertaken by those women."
The works of Arsino and Cleopatra give
accounts of the women of those days being
well versed in the doctrines and practice of
medicine and then understood. We are told
there was early a law passed in Athens
prohibiting women practicing physics in
any of its branches. Modern writers have
considered this a proof that the science
did not prosper in their hands. But may
we not judge men that then, as now,
had a desire to occupy alone, all the
lucrative and important positions that
should have been occupied by both sexes.
It is well understood that during the dark
ages women were held as very little better
than slaves, and poor advancement was
made in this science as well as all others.
We need not be surprised that the ideas and
barbarous blunders of one man, although
he is considered the father of medicine, was
carried out in practice in Europe for nearly
two thousand years after his death, when
we consider that woman, with her quick
perceptions of error, was excluded from the
study. We have no further account of
women accomplishing anything in any of
the branches of medicine until Mesdames
Lachapell and Bavin, French accouchers of
great eminence, who were born in the
seventeenth century and who were not
afraid to depart from the errors practiced
and taught by their masters and "To
whose high position and scientific research
is attributed the starting point of a new era
for obstetrics in France." America has
taken the lead in educating her women as
physicians, so women have flocked here
from many other lands to receive the bless
ings and honors conferred upon them in the
medical institutes that are established
here. Dr. Elizabeth Blackwell was the
first woman in this country to obtain the
degree of M. D. She commenced her
studies in 1843. After struggling and study-
ing under different professors, and giving
careful attention to hospital work she was


[Column 1]
admitted to a full course of lectures at the
Geneve College, N.Y., where she graduated
in 1849 and afterward rose to great
leminence in her profession. In connection
with her sister, Dr. Emily Blackwell, she was
at the head of a hospital and medical col-
lege for women in N. Y. City.” These wo-
men are considered the pioneers. In 1844.
the subject of women as physicians began
to engage the attention of some of our scien-
tific men.
	“In 1848 Samuel Gregory opened a medi-
cal school for women and over fifty thousand
dollars was bequeathed to it from different
sources. From that school was graduated
many who attained to great proficiency.
The Large Eclectic College of Ohio was
one of the first to welcome women as
students. In 1850 the Rochester Eclectic
school opened its doors to women. In 1853
the Pennsylvania University was started in
Philadelpha with separate departments of
instruction for men and for women. Since
the doors of the medical colleges have been
thrown open to women, thousands have
graduated with honors and rose to great
proficiency in the practice of medicine, and
many have shown superior ability, as
principals, deans, and professors of the
various branches of medicine in the medi-
cal colleges all over our land. Many of
these experienced women physicians have
spent years abroad searching out the kernels
of experience, to bring home and enrich
this country already abundant in scientific
research.
	Dr. Clemence J. Lozier was one who
early studied medicine. She commenced her
studies in 1849, after several institutes had
refused her admission because she was a
woman. She graduated at the Syracuse
Eclectic College in 1853, and by her untir-
ing efforts a woman’s medical college was
established in New York City in 1863.
She visited Europe, where every courtesy
was show her for the inspection of hospitals.
Dr. Annie Bromall, a graduate of the Wo-
man’s Medical College of Philadelphia,
attained to great proficency as a practitioner
and as a lecturess. She spent years abroad
visiting hospitals in Paris, Vienna and
London. Mary C. Putman, who graduated
in 1864,and afterward studied in Paris, was
the first woman admitted to visit the school
of medicine in that city. Dr. Sarah
Hackett Steavenson was the first woman
admitted to the American Medical As-
sociation. This occured in June, 1876. The
Philadelphia Evening Bulletin of June 2nd,
said, “the doctors have combined mil-
lennial and centennial glories. The largest
assemblage of the medical profession yes-
terday honored itself by bursting the bands
of ancient prejudices and admitted a wo-
man to its membership by a vote that
proved that the long waged battle is won
and that henceforth professional qualifica-
tions and not sex is to be the best of stand-
ing in the medical world.
	Dr. Emily Horton Cleveland,of Philadel-
phia, who was eminently superior as
practitioner and lecturer, is often mentioned
in relation to her great domestic qualifi-
cations as wife and mother. Dr. S. H.
Stevenson very appropriately has said, .
“one can spend a lifetime in scientific work
without being known outside of her im-
mediate circle. If the vitality which a
surgeon uses in carrying out a single
operation, or that a physician expends in
carrying through a single case, or a
physiologist consumes in a single lecture,

[Column 2]
if the same amount of energy was coined
into letters and published as literature, the
author’s name would be heralded abroad by
every tongue. We are indebted to some of
America’s greatest women for much that
has been written on these interesting facts;
and there are still volumes to be written.
Women as physicians are seeking to dis-
seminate knowledge among the masses,
to establish a better condition of physical
culture, to bring about reform in dress
thereby getting at the cause and prevention
of diseases among their own sex that need
not exist.
	Utah has made a start in this direction,
she has her pioneer women physicians,
who have made great efforts to establish
schools of obstetrics that we might have
plenty of scientific and practical midwives;
but the demand for such help is very very
much greater than the supply. Our towns
are rapidly growing in population and those
settlements, which a few years ago would
have to go many miles for a doctor in case
of emergency now support one, two or
more doctors. There should be a thorough
woman physician in all such places. We
require very many young women to take
up the study of obstetrics who can give
plenty of time to become thorough masters
of the science and art of this study. It is
a department of medicine that is of very
great importance and especially should it
be so to us. To excel in this special branch
is considered to have reached the euclid
of the profession. We find men with us
taking the places that should be occupied
by women, as the care of women and
children should be in the hands of women.
There, is no wonder that there is such a
cry against women as physicians in Utah.
The men know if this department of medi-
cine was occupied by women, many of
them would have to turn to other pursuits
or seek other climes for a livelihood, which
would no doubt be a good thing for Utah.
For, while we realize that we have many
men who are fine physicians and gentlemen,
we have many whose characters would not
bear inspection and are not fit creatures to
wait on the fair daughters of Zion. An-
other reason that women should be
physicians—women will combine their
knowledge with faith. Women have
always had great faith, it is natural for her
to lean on a Superior Being, and shall we
become so professional that we depart from
our old time blessing? “The prayer of
faith shall heal the sick.” A glowing
tribute could be paid to the women of
faith who worked with the sick in early
days before physicians came to Utah. I
am not afraid to say that the mortality in
the same number of cases and conditions
is not nearly so great with our women
physicians as with men physicians, because
of their faith.
	Often in the very face of death, when no
earthly power could aid, in the midnight
hour, in the anguish of her soul, she would
cry to the Great Physician of all, “O Father
if it is not against Thy decree, give, O give
back the life that she might live to rear her
children and teach them to tread the paths
that lead to thee, ” and she has been re-
warded, a miracle has been wrought and
many lives restored, and God has answered
her, “Go,my daughter, with thy faith I am
well pleased keep in thy good work what
e’er thou [---] eth for mine afflicted shall be
granted for my angels they are with thee
and I will not refuse. Struggle on in thy

[Column 3]
great calling, no mission is there greater
than to help my precious daughters to
bring forth the souls of men and no case
shalt thou have that thou canst not deliver,
for I will bless thee with great skill, and
remember if thou canst not then I will."
Such are the blessings that the daughters
of Zion will receive that will prepare
themselves for the work.
	PHARMARETE.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


TO MY DEAR FRIEND,
		  CAMILLA C. COBB.

       On the death of her darling Gracie.

“No more! a harp-string’s deep and breaking tone,
   A last low summer breeze, a far-off swell,
A dying echo of rich music gone,
   Breathe through those words— those murmurs
      of farewell:
					No more!”

    IT is so hard   to   part from  the  darling
over whom you have   watched  with tender
love  and  solicitude;   so  hard  to  see  the
warm breath of  life freeze  on  the pale lips,
and the loving eyes close to  open  no more
in this life!
    Yet sister—friend,   dear   little  faithful
mother,   think   of her   in   the realms  of
glory, basking  in  the smile  of Him  who 
said, “Let the little ones come unto me for
of such is the kingdom of  heaven.”
    Let all the thoughts of   your darlings be
of the great happiness they now enjoy, in
their heavenly home;  how they  anxiously
await your coming, how  they  watch  over
you and love you more and more.
    May  the  words  of your   Gracie always
comfort you, “God loves  us beyond;" and 
may  her dear hands  hold  the golden  cord
that shall draw you to her.
    May her love be the beacon that will light
you through  the rest  of your   journey   in
life.
    Your   many,   many  friends  feel   deep
sympathy for you, dear  Camilla, and  fain
would help  you in  this dark hour.    Yet
with confidence we leave you in the hands
of a loving Father   “Who doeth  all  things
well.”
    May  His love   support  you  and  may
sweet strains of   celestial music   fall   on
your tried spirit,  like  the low  murmur  of
many waters in the ear, lulling  and sooth-
ing you to a sense of peace and rest, that
the world cannot give or take away.    Then 
in the end you will feel to say,

“Through long, long years to seek, to strive to
	yearn
   For human love—and never quench that thirst,
To pour the soul out, wi nning no return, 
   O’er fragile idols, by  delusion nursed—
				No more!

“On things that fail  us, reed  by reed, to  lean, 
   To mourn the changed, the far away, the dead;
To send our troubled spirits through the unseen,
   Intensely questioning for treasure fled—
				No more!

Words of triumphant music—bear us on  
   The weight of life, the chain, the  ungenial air;
Their deathless meaning,  when  our  tasks  are
	done
   To learn in joy;—to struggle, to despair 
			No more!

Words of despair! yet earth’s all earths—the woe
   Their passion breathes—the desolately deep!
That sound in heaven—oh! image then the flow
   Of gladness in its tunes—to  part, to weep—
				No more!"
			Lovingly,
				LYDIA D. ALDER.
SALT LAKE CITY, May 13, 1893.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SANDWICH ISLANDS RELIEF
			SOCIETY.

	[Report of the Relief Society Conference
of the Hawaiian Islands held at Laii Oahu,
April 8th, 1893.]
	As usual on such occasions, the native
sisters assembled at "Lanahuli" arrayed
in white and each wearing a society badge,
bearing the inscription "Ka Heii Manawale,"
Through the energetic efforts of our good
Marshal of the day, "Pono," the procession
was soon formed into line, and at ten
o'clock promptly was marching to the
enlivening strains of music discoursed by
our Laii Martial Band. Upon arriving at
the meeting house, all were comfortably
seated in their proper places by three of our
young native sisters who acted as ushers,
and who deserve great credit for the success 
with which they carried out their part of
the programme, viz., dispensing water to the
thirsty, arousing those who were inclined
to sleep, keeping order among the little
folks, etc.
	The house was profusely and beautifully
decorated with ferns and flowers; at the
back of the stand hung large pictures of 
Brigham Young and of the First Presidency,
draped with festoons of red and white cloth
and ferns. At each side of the stand, over
the entrance ways were to be seen pictures
of the Salt Lake Temple, one representing
the Temple in its early course of erection,
the other showing the beautiful edifice since
its completion. The walls of the Taber-
nacle, on either side, were ornamented
with banners of various kinds inscribed
with some of the noble sentiments uttered
by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Our Presi-
dent, Sister Libbie Noall, called the Con-
ference to order and after the usual opening
exercises, reports were read by the Sec'y,
Sister Kekuewa Nakuaau, showing a mem-
bership of 692; number of meetings held
during the half year 429.
Balance in treasury at date of last report, $367.75
Money donated during this term...174.44
			DISBURSEMENTS.
Donation to the poor	. . . . . . .	53.50
"	"	"	Temple	. . . . .	93.45
"	"	"	Missionary fund . . 17.05
Tithing						10.70
Miscellaneous donations		63.60
Balance in treasury				304.49
	The remainder of the two sessions of our
Conference was devoted to the "Eleles," or
representatives of the different branches
from the several Islands, numbering about
thirty-one, who gave in their reports as to
the condition of their various societies,
which reports proved to be the most com-
plete and satisfactory that have been com-
plete and satisfactory that have been pre-
sented before the Conference for several 
years; every society upon the Islands, with
but two or three exceptions, were repre-
sented, and all reported as being in a fairly
prosperous condition, this speaks well for
the integrity, faithfulness and liberality of
the sisters, when we take into consider-
ation that the majority of the Saints are
very poor, having but limited means where-
with to meet the demands made upon them.
The reports of the "Eleles" were inter-
spersed with words of instruction from the
white sisters, also songs, solos, duets, etc.,
which added life and spirit to our meetings.
	The presiding authorities of the Relief
Societies in all the world were unanimously
sustained by the Conference, after which
the following local officers were sustained
for the ensuing six months:
	Prest. of the Relief Societies of the 
Hawaiian Isles, Libbie Noall; Counselors,

[column 2]
Jennie Harding, Nellie Grace, Maggie
Davis, May Duffin, Annie Thurber, Katie
Hottendoof and Lizzie Brown.
	Of the native sisters, Kekuewa Nakauau
and Kahuhu; aids, Kalua Palaoa and
Niaulani. Rec. Sec'y—Kekuewa Nakuaau
with Luka Kauhine as her assistant. Cor.
Sec'y. Nellie Grace; treasurer, Matthew
Noall. Sister Noall spoke at some length,
giving the sisters timely words of counsel
and instruction pertaining to their duties,
also read a letter from the first presidency
of the Relief Societies, touching upon the
duties of the different officers of the society,
this letter was explained in full to the un-
derstanding of all present. President Noall
followed, addressing the Saints in his
usual lively and spirited manner, encourag-
ing them in their labors, after which he
spoke upon the necessity of organizing a 
Primary Association and the benefit that
would result from such an organization;
this subject had been previously agitated
and discussed by the sisters and all were of
one heart and one mind in desiring to take
upon themselves this new labor in behalf
of the native children of the Laie branch.
	The following names were submitted to the
Conference and sustained as officers of the 
Association: Libbie Noall Prest., Maggie
Davis and Lizzie Brown, Ioane I., Sec'y,
Elena Ass't Sec, Musical Director, Nellie
Grace, Treas. Katie Hottendorf.
	A social reunion and dance at the school
house in the evening, proved a happy
sequel to the day's proceedings and was
thoroughly enjoyed by all.
	A special officer's meeting was called by
our President, for the benefit of the visiting
sisters, wherin they might counsel with the
missionary sisters upon subjects pertaining
to the welfare of their societies, which
would not be advisable to discuss in a pub-
lic meeting.
	They left their "aloha mii" with us, and
took ours with them to be distributed
among the Saints of their respective dis-
tricts; and thus they parted from us, feeling
amply repaid for coming to conference, and
filled with the good things they had heard,
so the good work is rolling on in this part
of the world and the missionaries take
pleasure and satisfaction in proclaiming glad
tidings of joy and salvation to this branch
of the house of Israel, and they feel proud
of the honor bestowed upon them in being
counted worthy to assist in pruning the
vineyard of the Lord for the last time.
				MRS. NELLIE GRACE,
	Cor. Sec. Relief Society of the Hawaiian
Islands. Laie, April 20th, 1893.


[column 1]
KING JAMES OF ENGLAND.
	JAMES the first of England and sixth of
Scotland was the only son of Mary Queen
of Scotts and Henry Lord Darnley, was
born in Edinburgh, June 19, 1566; at the
death of Queen Ellzabeth he succeeded to
the throne of England. Scotland had been
a separate kingdom since the time of Robert
Bruce but now became united with England
in a gratifying manner, having given in-
stead of receiving a king. A few weeks be-
fore the death of Queen Elizabeth, a con-
quest commenced four hundred years be-
fore, by Strongbow; was completed by
Mountjoy, and scarcely had James the first
mounted the English throne than the last
O’Donnell and O’Neil, who held the rank
of independent princes of Ireland, kissed
his hand at White Hall, thus uniting

[column 2]
England, Scotland and Ireland, it would be
supposed the united kingdoms would be
very powerful; both nations were intelli-
gent, courageous and in mental cultivation
the Scotch equaled any other country in
their religious fervor, they were Protestant
while Ireland still remained true to the old
religion. Ireland was treated as a province
won by the sword and Scotland did not
escape,in many ways being treated as a sub-
ject province, but we find the condition quite
the reverse it seemed to be no more importance
than the little kingdom of Scotland had
done. Macaulay think at this critical time
it really was fortunate that James was not
a great leader, for it was a time when
England should be absolute or parliament
control the executive administrations; being
weak minded and good natured. He
further says it was at this time those
strange theories which Tilmer afterwards
formed into a system and which became the
badge of the most violent class of Tories
and high churchmen first emerged into
notice. It was gravely maintained that
the Supreme Being regarded hereditary
monarchy as opposed to other forms of
government with peculiar favour, that the
rule of succession in order of primogeniture
was a divine institution anterior to the
Christians and even to the Mosaic dispen-
sation, that no hnman power, not even that
of the whole legislature, no length of
adverse possession, though it extended to
ten centuries, no power could deprive a
legitimate prince of his rights, that the
authority of such a prince was necessarily
despotic, that the laws by which in England
and in other countries the prerogative was
limited were to be regarded merely as con-
cessions, which the sovereign had freely
made, and might at his pleasure resume,
and that any treaty which a king might
conclude with his people was merely a
declaration of his present intentions and
not a contract of which the preformance
could be demanded.
	James was very secure under this act.
He boasted of his kingcraft and irritated
his parliament by telling them they held
their privileges only during his pleasure
and had no more right to question him
what he should lawfully do than to question
Deity in the same moment. He maintained
the same policy as regards religious belief,
the authority of the Church of England; per-
secuted the Roman Catholics, which severties
caused the gun powder plot, and from the
quickness with which he grasped and acted
on this occasion it is supposed he had
knowledge of it previous to the official
notice. The project was on the fifth of
November, 1605, to overthrow the govern-
ment by placing explosives under the house
of parliament when it was in session, after-
ward warning all who were Roman Catholics
not to be present,to ignite it and blow them
into eternity, it was the warning of these
Catholics which gave the clue to the pro-
ject in time to prevent it. Guy Fawkes,
although only an accomplice, not the origi-
nator, has been a name detested by all
England.
	James married in 1589 Princess Anne,
daughter of Frederic the II. of Denmark.
During a visit to Scotland in 1619 his eldest
son Henry, Prince of Wales,died. He was de-
sirous of effecting a marriage between his son
Charles, now Prince of Wales, and a Span-
ish Princess and it was while negotiation
for this marriage that insults were received
which resulted in war.
	James' claims to supremacy in religious


as well as civil government led to severe per-
secutions; he confiscated the property of
the Roman Catholic and he manifested his
dislike in many other ways.
	The Puritans or dissenters from the
Church of England were also severely per-
secuted on account of the simplicity of
their faith, and claims of the New Testa-
ment as religious authority caused his per-
secution to extend to this class, fearing they
in their earnestness might have an influence,
which would rob him of his supremacy.
Some fled to Holland, and during these per-
secutions in 1620 the Pilgrims left
England for America.
	Shortly after or about this critical time King
James died, and Charles the First ascended
the throne. He was by nature stronger
than his father, but possessed the same
political views. By the same religious in-
fluence surrounding him, he was made to
believe he could not divest himself of his
despotic authority, and when necessity re-
quired his acting as judge could break any
contract he might make.
	The House of Commons was composed of
able statesmen, who were determined to
conform to parliament, or to govern with-
out law.
	The king dissolved parliment and levied
taxes without legal right. Another parli-
ment was called and dissolved, and still
another, with stronger opposition than
ever. One of the fundamental laws of
England was that the king could not im-
pose taxes without the consent of parlia-
ment; administration was bound to be con-
ducted by law. The king was forced to
call parliament, and on the third of Novem-
ber, 1640, this memorable body began its
sittings. Both houses were firm in their
opposition to his dispotism. He was obliged
to consent to many things against his con-
viction. Seeking to make peace with the
Scots and gain their favor, he visited Scot-
land; while there a massacre against Pro-
testants took place in Ireland, and it seemed
that all hope of peace was destroyed.
	On returning to England he found
Parliament more exacting than ever to-
wards him, but a spirit of greater liberty
towards the people seemed to predominate,
though there still existed the belief in
hereditary monarchy and dissensions arose
in the House of Commons. To weaken
the Royalists would be to obtain possession
of the king. Cromwell seemed to under-
stand the situation. It was desired to
terminate the contest between the crown and
parliament and give the supreme control
over to the executive administration.
	Many Royalists through their love of
monarchial government, were attached to
hereditary monarchy; they took sides with
King Charles, though they were not in
sympathy with his conduct and condemned
and lacked confidence in his policy, yet they
venerated the kingly office.
		[To be Continued.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	“IT was a happy omen of the position
which woman was to hold in America, that
the only person who comprehended the
majestic scope of his plans, and the invinci-
ble qualities of his genius, was the able
and gracious Queen of Castile. Isabella
alone of all the dignitaries of that age
shares with Columbus the honors of his
great achievement. She arrayed her king-
dom and her private fortune behind the
enthusiasm of this mystic mariner, and


posterity pays homage to her wisdom and
faith.
	“The overthrow of the Mohamedan pow-
er in Spain would have been a forgotten
scene in one of the innumerable acts in the
grand drama of history had not Isabella
conferred immortality upon herself, her
husband and their dual crown by her
recognition of Columbus. The devout
spirit of the Queen and the high purpose
of the explorer inspired the voyage, sub-
dued the mutinous crew and prevailed over
the raging storms. They covered with
the divine radiance of religion and human-
ity, the degrading search for gold and the
horrors of its quest, which filled the first
century of conquest with every form of
lust and greed.—Chauncey M. Depew in
Columbus Oration.
	Miss Jennie Young, the American
girl whose enterprise in building a railroad
to extensive salt deposits which she owns
in Chihuahua has created a stir throughout
Mexico, has been granted a valuable con-
cession by the Mexican government for the
establishment of colonies in the States of
Chihuahua and Coahuila. . Miss Young
left for London, England, a few weeks
ago, and while there will arrange to bring
over several thousand English families to
settle as farmers upon the lands which she
secured from the government. Miss Young
has been in Mexico several years, and is
well known to President Diaz.


OBITUARIES.
Editor Exponent—
	DEAR SISTER, it is with feelings of sadness we
record the death of another dear sister. Cleopatra
Burrgess Keele, the beloved wife of Elder M. A.
Keele, departed this life 1st of May, 1893 Sister
Keele was born at Springville on 4th of August, 
1858. She was a good Latter-day Saint. During
her last illness she manifested great faith in the
ordinances of the Gospel. Everything was done
that loving hands could do but the powers of
death prevailed and she passed away surrounded
by loved ones and friends. She was a true wife
and mother, had eight children, five survive her to
mourn her loss. The funeral services were held at
the meeting house May 2nd. A large concourse
of relatives and friends followed the remains to
their last resting place. May God comfort the
bereaved husband and children is our prayer.
				SARAH G. MEEKS, Prest.
				BETSEY S. GOODWIN, Sec. 

Editor Exponent:
	ANOTHER of our aged mothers in Israel has
been called beyond the vail. Mother Eleanor
Turner Willden, relict of the late Charles Willden,
departed this life April 30th,1893, at the residence
of her son Elliot. Sister Willden was born at
Laughton Lemorthen, Yorkshire, England in the
year 1810; joined the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter Day Saints in 1843, and emigrated to this 
country in 1849. Has resided in Southern Utah
forty-one years. She leaves four sons, two
daughters, seventy grand children and sixty-six
great-grandchildren. Mother Willden was a
faithful worker in the Relief Society, having been
a teacher in that organization a great many years.
She was a zealous believer in the cause of truth.
				R. W. TYLER, President. 
				A. M. TANNER,Secretary.
BEAVER CITY, U. T.,May 15th, 1893.

	DIED Wednesday, April 26th, 1893. in the 16th
Ward, Salt Lake City, Sarah Luck Cumberland, 
in the sixty-fifth year of her age. She was born
February 24th, 1829, in England. Was married to 
Francis Luck, Feb. 29th, 1849, by whom she had
one son who died in infancy.
	She joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints in her youth and was diligent in The
performance of every good work, such as dis-
ributing tracts, visiting the sick and relieving
heir wants, as far as it was in her power. She
was always willing to divide her last morsel with
tthe needy, she was ready to obey the counsel of 
those whom God had appointed to lead His
people.
	She emigrated to Utah in a company of Saints


September, 1857, that was led by Homer Duncan
and some other Elders.
	I will here relate a circumstance which occured
while on her journey to Zion. They were met
by a company of apostates on the way back to
their old home, some of whom she had been
acquainted with in England, when they were in
the Church. They told Sister Sarah she would
be sorry before winter was over if she did not
turn and go back with them, telling her what she
might expect if she went on, but Sister Sarah had
found the pearl of great price and did not feel
to barter away her present and eternal happiness
for what she had already proved could never
satisfy a candidate for eternal life, in the presence
of Him who had gone to prepare a place for all
the faithful in Christ Jesus, so she determined to
hold on to the rod of iron with all the weak-
nesses of human nature to contend with.
	She was married to Henry Cumberland Jan. 20,
1868, she has been diligent in working  for the
Relief Society; filling the office of assistant
secretary for many years and has filled the office
of secretary four years, during which time she
was always prompt, precise and truly faithful in
the performance of every duty pertaining to her
calling. 
	We shall miss her much but now she‘s gone
we’ll not recall her to a suffering world like this.
				DIANA REED, President.
     				MERCY R. THOMPSON, Treasurer.


DOCTOR MATTIE HUGHES CANNON,
	Office: II South, First West.Street.
Office practice for Diseases of Women from 2
			until 4 p. m.        
Woman's Co-operative Inst'n 
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
	ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
		AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
			POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
No. 41 S.
WEST TEMPLE STREET,
Opp. Grant Bros. Stables. 

	MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p.m.
R.K. THOMAS
26,28,30and 32 East 1st South St.,

			SALT LAKE CITY

		The Leading Retail 
Cash House
R.K. THOMAS

	DAVID JAMES & CO. 
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and For-- PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
DAVID JAMES, Box. 306. Salt Lake City

	Dr. Maggie C. Shipp, will commence
her summer class in Obstetrics and Nursing
on Monday May 1st 1893.
	Office and residence 34 East, 5th South
Telephone 383.


<Elizabeth Pugh﻿>
WOMAN'S EXPONENT
		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 21.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 1, 1893.			No. 23.


CONTENTS:
	Passing Thoughts—Camelia. The Pilgrims.
S. L.Co. W. S. A.—Ella W. Hyde. Silk Culture.
A Lesson—Ida Haag. Thoughts About Women
Past and Present—Isabella Pratt Price. Obituary.

	EDITORIAL:—World’s Congress of Women.
Only a Glance. Luncheon at the Richelieu.
One Day in June. Editorial Notes.

	POETRY:—Night—Hyacinth.  June—Selected.
Grandma’s Angel—Selected.


NIGHT.

THE twilight hours linger not,
	As in the days past by;
But with seraphic wings are caught,
	To far off realms to fly.

Between the dark and waning light,
	No soft’ning shade is found,
Before the Goddess Night,
	In robes divine is crowned.

Athwart the canopy of blue, 
	Long e’er the day has fled,
Glimmering stars of silver hue,
	Fairy-like glances shed.

And even the balmiest sigh, 
	Breathed by the zephyrs low,
Awaken in harmony nigh,
	Quietude to o’erthrow.

Far off in the ling’ring daylight,
	That seems to fainter grow,
The silv’ry sheen of the starlight,
	Is changed to golden glow.

Heaven a silent watch doth keep,
	Over the slumb’ring world;
In whose ebony vault so deep,
	Meteor lights are hurled.

Faint the gleam of a distant light,
	That breaks the darkened way,
Fair Luna, crowned with sceptre bright,
	Begins her supreme sway.

Pale Moon, resplendent Queen of Night,
	Sail on thy heavenly way;
To thine astral home where sunlight
	Ne’er sheds its shining ray.

Oh Night, sublime and beautiful,
	In mystic silence wrapt;
With awe replete, yet merciful, 
	In thine arms to be clasped. 

Peacefully rest thy weary wings,
	In calm security;
Safely, as by thee are all things
	Locked in obscurity.
					HYACINTH.


PASSING THOUGHTS.

	So many things are written and told
about all the great people of the earth, but
whoever read or heard the biography of
that charming old lady—Mother Goose—
certainly no one’s writings are so widely
circulated and so universally admired as
hers. The quaint and charming style that
so pleases the little child, even before he

[column 2]
can talk, when he “Rides to Boston” on
his papa’s knee, or “Pats a cake,” to the
fond delight of his admiring mamman, never
wearies nor grows old and tiresome. For
as the years roll on we read between the
lines and discover Mother Goose not only
to have been the children’s poet but a
philosopher and moralist as well. John the
Piper’s son received a just punishment as
all thieves should, and Dame Gill was
taught to minister to her brother’s wounds
in a right womanly manner, and so through
ever little verse is a lesson taught. You
may think I have been trying to sweep
the cobwebs out of my brain this morning
by going back to childhood rhymes, and so
I have, I have been trying to recall the
lines to see if some of them did not tell,
who was Mother Goose. There are two
poems which might describe her. The old
woman in the shoe, and if she had so many
children of course she never had time to
tell us who she was, and then the old
woman who went seventy times as high as
the moon, and if she was the one, we sup-
pose she has not yet come back to explain
about herself, but found so much work for
her broom that she is still sweeping cob-
webs out of the sky. All the same Mother
Goose was a grand old lady, and so long as
there are children in the world her name
will be an honored one, and people will
wonder and ask who was Mother Goose?
We love her because she has done so much
for the children and the mothers, and if
some of our readers can only tell us more
about her we wish they would, and in the
future biographical dictionaries may we
find the life of Mother Goose, but the in-
credulous will say she was a myth, there
never was such a person no more than
there was a William Tell, or a hatchet be-
longing to George Washington. Alas! how in
this day of realism are our idols shattered;
if Mother Goose is a myth who wrote those
nursery rhymes.
	Its a long step from Mother Goose to the
great master of English verse, and one
might well hesitate before bringing them
into the same subject, but in one respect
they are alike, that is in having their iden-
tity doubted, and it is a still longer step
from the cradle to the grave; but doubt is
linking them, and this doubt is a very ugly
creature and is doing much mischief in this
beautiful world of ours. I wish he never
had been born, for he creeps into the cor-
ners of hearts and tries to destroy the faith
he finds there. This faith is his greatest
enemy, for doubt is so wicked that he hates
faith for the good that he has done, and it is
his highest ambition to destroy him.
Doubt is not natural to a child, he is un-
known, but faith is born in the child, it is
his first instinct and his first principle, and
if raised in a atmosphere of faith, if those
in whom he believes, believes in One still
higher, he will continue to be faithful and
neither to doubt nor question, but should
the surrounding atmosphere be one of
doubt and suspicion, the child begins to
lose faith in those he trusted and becomes
a doubter and an unbeliever. Men say there
is no divinity, we cannot see nor feel nor

[column 3]
hear him, our reason does not prove him.
Does your reason disprove them; no, a
thousand times no. The infidel has little
to live for and his own unhappy- state ought
to cause him to keep quiet and not force
his ideas upon those who have a faith, it
can do him no good for believing in noth-
ing, he has nothing to return for that sub-
lime principle which he endeavors to des-
troy. Wonders are accomplished daily by
the principle of faith. It makes men
better one to another, and from childhood
to the grave it is a staff to lean upon. Oh,
why destroy any thing so beautiful, so
sublime—mothers guard against this doubt;
keep him from your homes, for he brings
neither happiness nor joy, but is a menace
and an evil-doer.
						CAMELIA.


THE PILGRIMS

				[Concluded.] 
	The company now commenced exploring
the coast, no Indians were seen and they
afterwards learned that a plague had swept
off great numbers of them and the country
had been abandoned, thus leaving it free
for them to choose a dwelling place.  
	While still on the Mayflower a child was
born, Perigrine White, the first English
child born in New England.
	His mother afterwards became a widow,
and was married again, being the first bride
of the new colony. 
	Finally on the 22nd of December, 1620,
the landing was made on Plymouth Rock,
an event that is celebrated in every part of
our land, and who among us that can trace
back our lineage to this brave, devoted God-
fearing band, but is proud to say, "OUR
Pilgrim Fathers.” 
	Of the manners and customs of the
Pilgrims, their many perilous adventures,
hardships and romantic incidents, with
which every American is more or less fami-
liar, we must treat lightly in this limited
space.
	During the first dreary winter full half
their number died. One of the first being
Rose, the wife of Captain Standish.
	Seven times more graves for the dead
were made than habitations for the living.
They were buried by the bank, not far 
from the landing—a spot still venerated—
and lest the Indians should take courage to
attack the survivors from their weakened
state, the soil that covered the graves of
their beloved relatives was carefully beaten
down and planted with corn. During the
pleasant New England summer which
followed the colonists took heart and all
seemed well. But in November The For-
tune arrived bringing many mouths to fill
but no provisions. Having to divide with
these newcomers, caused a scarcity among
the people and great suffering ensued.
Men often staggered on the street for want
of food, and they were not without appre-
hensions of an attack from the Indians. At
this time Canonicus a powerful sachem sent
to the village a bundle of arrows tied up
with the skin of a rattle snake, but Gover-


nor Braddock promptly filled the skin with
powder and ball and returned it, and this
hint was not without a salutary effect.
	At this time a party of some sixty men
came over from England and settled near.
They were nothing like the Pilgrims, but
were a lawless, reckless set. They com-
menced plundering the Indians and thus
secured their enmity.
	The Indians commenced depredations,
and Captain Standish being somewhat
hasty though brave, took speedy revenge,
surprising and putting to death the chief
with several of his Indians.
	When Robinson, their good pastor, heard
of this he wrote to the colonists, “Oh how
happy a thing had it been had you con-
verted some before you killed any.”
	Afterwards many were converted, and
some sent as missionaries among their own
people.
	The laws of the Pilgrims are a good in-
dication of their character.
	It is an interesting fact that the first law
on record secures trial by jury, consisting
of twelve honest men under oath.
	Another law was that if any were
elected to the office of governor and would
not serve he should be fined twenty pounds
sterling; this is quite different from our
time.
	Another, if any man offered proposals of
marriage to any young lady without first
obtaining the consent of her parents should
submit to a fine or corporal punishment.
	Denial of the Scriptures as a rule of life
was punishable by whipping.
	The Pilgrims were unwilling that any
one should charge an exorbitant profit on
what he sold. These are some cases in
court. J. B. for buying rye at four shill-
ings per bushel and selling for five. A
Miss Boulton was guilty of slander and the
court condemned her to the humiliating
punishment of sitting in the stocks.
	John Phillips for smoking on the high-
way was fined twelve shillings.
	S. H. for carrying a grist of corn from
the mill on Sunday, fined twenty shillings
or to be whipped, and W. F. for permitting
him to take it from the mill fined ten
shillings.
	J. W. was ordered to be sharply reproved
for writing a note on common business on
Lord's day.
	Women for abusing their husbands were
sentenced to be fined or whipped at the
post, but this surpasses all the others. No
garment shall be made with short sleeves,
and such as have garments with short
sleeves, shall not wear the same unless they
cover the arm to the wrist; and hereafter no
person shall make any garment whatever
for women with sleves more than half an
ell (22 inches) wide.
	During the first season land was not
owned by individuals, every man worked
and put his earnings into the common store,
but this was not a success.
	When a certain amount was given to 
each individual they worked with much
more courage and enthusiasm.
	The first time that the landing of the
pilgrims was publicy celebrated in Plymouth
was December 22nd, 1869, almost one hun-
dred and fifty years after the event. This 
is the menu:
	“First, one large baked Indian whortle-
berry pudding; two, a dish of succotash;
three, a dish of clams; four, a dish of
oysters; five, haunch of venison roasted
in the first Jack brought to the colony;

[column 2]
sixth, a dish of seafowl. Seventh, a dish
of fresh fish and eels. Eighth, an apple-
pie. Ninth, a course of cranberry tarts and
cheese made in the old colony.”
	In imitation of their ancestors all luxury
and extravagance were avoided, everything
being served in the simplest manner.
	Another celebration that must be men-
tioned was the 200th anniversary. After a
speech by Daniel Webster of two hours
duration and other ceremonials, a pro-
cession was formed,and taking their way to
the banquet hall sat down to a table spread
with all the luxuries the country afforded,
but on each plate was placed five grains of 
corn; this excited feelings of amusement,
interest and emotion in different individuals,
but when it was understood that this was in
commemoration of that time in the history
of the pilgrims when there was only a pint
of corn for the whole colony and when it
was divided gave just five grains to each;
the five grains at the banquet were eaten
with a greater relish than any of the
dainties, or were carefully treasured as
mementoes. 
	The celebrated rock must be mentioned,
though briefly. In revolutionary times to
inspire still more patriotism it was raised
from its place and drawn by forty oxen,
followed to the Liberty Pole Square.
	In raising it, the rock was broken and
this was looked upon as a signification of
the division of the British Empire.
	In 1834, July 4th, it was moved again
and placed in front of Pilgrim Hall where
in now remains protected by a noble
structure, which serves the double purpose
of security to the rock and a monument to
the pilgrims and bears the names of the
forty-one who signed the compact on board
the Mayflower.
	In looking back at the character of the
pilgrims from this distance, their religion
and lives appear somewhat sombre, some
have called them vindictive, but this is
rather unjust. They certainly did many
things that seem unjust and harsh, such as
their persecution of the Quakers, selling
Indians into slavery, beheading and
quartering others, etc. but we must judge
them from their standpoint and from the
public opinion of their day, and not from 
ours of greater freedom and liberality of
thought. 
	Their lives have furnished themes for
romance and song.
	Where can we find a sweeter story of
simplicity and truth than that of Priscilli,
the Puritan maiden, whom Longfellow has
immortalized. Another sweet sad story of
Puritan sternness is that of Hester Prynne
in Hawthorne’s “Scarlet Letter.”
	This illustrates their severe, strict justice,
seemingly robbed of that sweet virtue
charity, wherein the young girl Hester for
her one error, bitterly repented as it was
and atoned for by a whole lifetime of suf-
fering and devotion, was yet condemned to
wear on her breast the badge of her shame
the scarlet letter, all her life and with her
child live apart from the self-righteous
community.
	We cannot better close this subject than
by quoting the fine words of Sprague:

	“O never may they rest unsung,
	While Liberty can find a tongue,
	Divine gratitude a wreath for them,
	More deathless than the diadem,
	Who to life's noblest end,
	Gave up life's noblest powers,
	And bade the legacy descend
	Down, down to us and ours.”


WOMANS EXPONENT.


S. L. CO. W. S. A.

	THE regular monthly meeting of the
Salt Lake Co. W. S. A. convened in the
13th Ward Assembly Rooms, May 16th,
1893. Vice-President Elizabeth M. Price
in the chair. Opened by singing, “A
Suffrage Song,” prayer by the Chapalin.
Singing, “The Reason Why.” Roll called
and minutes of previous meeting read and
accepted. Vice-President Elizabeth M.
Price said she thought when the hurry and
excitement of the World’s Fair was over
there would be more attend the meetings,
and more interest taken in them. This is
an age of progress, women should educate
themselves in politics, for they must come
to the front.
	Mrs. Mary Silver, Mrs. Mary Bassett and
Vice-President Elizabeth Macfarlane all
spoke upon the importance of attending
suffrage meetings and of improving every
opportunity of becoming posted in regard
to politics. Said women should have an
understanding of law, thought what was
good for men was also good for women.
Mesdames Sarah Phelps, Mary Sawer
Snow, Ann Plazer, Sophia Lang, Mary
Irvine and Mary Morris, made some inter-
esting remarks on suffrage. It was sug-
gested that the ladies take the Woman’s
Column, as there were some good things in
it pertaining to suffrage.
	Meeting stood adjourned until the third
Tuesday in June.	E. W. HYDE, Sec.


JUNE.—The month of roses—that stately
queen of Flora's kingdom. Now the wind
scatters the pink and white petals of the
fruit blossoms through the air, the moun-
tains fairly glow in their deep and livid
colors, the dark green fields ripen into
purple blossoms and the garden paths are
sweet and beautiful with jasamine, wood-
bine and roses.
	Of all the year June is the happy month.
No fear of chilling frosts nor dread of ex-
cessive heat to blight and mar the beauty
of the earth. The child, the youth, the
man all revel in its sweetness and its glory.
With what delight the children hail the
closing days of school, and after the worked
for closing exercises have passed, without
thought of care enjoy to the utmost the
field day. The sweet girl graduate dons
her fresh white gown and is showered with
roses and congratulations. The weary
professors lay aside the text books and bid
farewell for a season to the school room to
take a vacation tour in search of new scenes
and new subjects for the following year.
	It was a happy thought that the first of
this month should be chosen for Primary
Day, for when nature smiles so brightly the
children smile as well.
	THE stand the Republican League took
on the Woman Suffrage question must be
very gratifying to the women of the country,
especially so to the women of the Repub-
lican Party, 375 votes in favor and 185
against. The women interested in suffrage
will certainly fully appreciate the noble
efforts of Mr. Blackwell in their behalf.
	BECAUSE of the sojourn of Mrs. Wells
in Chicago the story, “In Rural England, ”
has had to be omitted from the last two
numbers of the EXPONENT; but we trust
the very interesting and entertaining news
concerning doings and sights in Chicago
will suffice for the present and by the next
number, if possible, the thread of the story
will be taken up and continue a uninter-
ruptedly to the finish.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


JUNE.

JUNE has the charm of melody to wake
	The air to music when her name is heard;
	In grove and field hers is the magic work
To win from silence song for summer’s sake;—
The winds low whispering, the sudden break
	Of silver syllables where streams are stirred,
	The muffled trumpet of the bee and bird
Whose lyric notes float downward, flake by flake.

Dear child of summer, yours the happy choice
	Delicious days and dewy nights to bring,
To make the gardens fragrantly rejoice,
	To give sweet tune to every silent thing,
To hold the world enraptured by your voice
	And tempt all nature, poet-like, to sing!
								SELECTED.


GRANDMA’S ANGEL.

MAMMA said, “little one, go to see
If Grandma’s ready to come to tea,”
I knew I mustn’t disturb her, so
I stepped as gently along, tip-toe,
And stood a moment to take a peep
And there was Grandma fast asleep. 

I knew it was time for her to wake;
I thought I’d give her a little shake,
Or tap at her door, or softly call,
But I hadn’t the heart for that at all—
She looked so sweet and so quiet there
Lying back in her high arm chair,
With her dear white hair, and a little smile
That means she’s loving you all the while,
I didn't make a speck of noise,
I knew she was dreaming of little boys
And girls who lived with her long ago
And then went to heaven, she told me so.

I went up close and I didn't speak
One word, but I gave her on her cheek
The softest bit of a little kiss
Just in a whisper,and then said this,
“Grandma, dear, its time for tea,”
She opened her eyes and looked at me
And said, “why pet, I have just now dreamed
Of a little angel who came and seemed
To kiss me lovingly on my face,”
She pointed right at the very place,
I never told her it was only me 
I took her hand and we went to tea.
						SELECTED.


SILK CULTURE.

	WE are very happy to note the sudden
interest taken in the silk industry, and hope
it will lead to active work in such a way
that those who have labored so faithfully
will receive an impetus for more work and
a more thorough system will be adopted.
The beautiful portieres and furniture made
from the Utah silk awaked quite an interest
in the subject. Our own people were sur-
prised to discover how much had been done,
but the newer residents of Utah were most
surprised and greatly delighted. Mrs. C.
E. Allen recently prepared and read at an
entertainment given before the ladies of the
Unitarian Church, a very able article on
silk culture in Utah, and though in the last
issue we published an article on the same
subject by Mrs. Stringham, we believe a
synopsis of Mrs. Allen’s article will be in-
teresting to our readers:—
	“The opportunity to make an exhibit of
Utah silk in the woman’s building was
not given until just before the opening of
the fair, but the committee have labored
assiduously, and have obtained a consider-
able amount. Mrs. Caine has gone, up
and down the Territory collecting silk

[Column 2]
material, and the people have been very
generous in their response to her appeal for
contributions. She has collected dress
silk, pongee, lace, twist, reeled silk and
cocoons. Some of the dress material is
very beautiful, though made upon a hand
loom, the same that is used for weaving
rag carpet.
	No attempt will be made to obtain a prize
on manufactured goods, but it is believed
that Utah silk is of a very superior quality,
and if a prize can be obtained for our raw
material it will give a great impulse to the
industry.
	A very brief account of the silk industry
in other countries will help to show what
our Utah industry may become. The pro-
cess of rearing the silk worm, reeling the
thread and making it into cloth was dis-
covered in China 2,600 B. C.
	The knowledge of the art spread through
eastern Asia, before the Christian era. In
the year 555 A. D. two Nubian monks
brought silk worm eggs to Constantinople
and the Emperor Justinian established the
industry there. Sericulture spread rapidly
through Europe and became one of its chief
industries. In France at the present time
silk is manufactured to the value of one
hundred and twenty million francs annually
and from 800,000 to 1,000,000 operatives
are employed.
	Silk culture was introduced into America
in 1522 by Cortez. Georgia was founded
as a silk colony. John I. endeavored to
force Virginia to raise silk but they pre-
ferred to produce tobacco. Many of the
colonies made successful attempts at silk
culture, but during the revolution it was
entirely suspended. From 1825 to 1844
the interest revived and silk culture might
have become well established if it had not
been for the schemes of some jealous men.
The price of mulberry cuttings ran ’from
$3 a hundred up to $300 and even $500.
Many persons lost their entire fortunes.
	It was not long after this revival of inter-
est in sericulture that the Latter-day Saints
came to this valley. Brigham Young quickly
perceived how well adapted this climate
was to silk culture. He mentioned the fact
when fixing the site for the temple, and in
his first sermon in the valley spoke of
sericulture as one of the industries which
should make this people prosperous. He
sent to France for mulberry seed which he
had planted in his own garden, and person-
ally superintended the work. He gave
away cuttings to all who would take them.
Later on he sent to France for silk worm
eggs, distributing eggs and leaves to all
who cared to experiment with them.
About 1865 he built a cocoonery at Forest
Dale and placed a competent person in
charge. Soon after this, a systematic at-
tempt was made to introduce the industry
throughout the territory. Mrs. Zina D.
Young went from ward to ward explaining
the method of caring for the worms and
urging the importance of the industry.
	A general interest was soon awakened
and many trees were planted. When the
people were not able to build a cocoonery
they made a cocoonery of their houses for
the required six weeks in the spring,
literally turning themselves out of doors.
In 1876 the Deseret Silk association was
formed. An exhibit of beautifully reeled
silk was made at the Centennial which re-
ceived a diploma. At the Territorial fair
in 1877 there were exhibited numerous silk
fabrics—handkerchiefs, lace, stockings,

[Column 3]
artificial flower work, and dress silks of
various kinds.
	Soon after the Legislature appropriated
fifteen hundred dollars to encourage the in-
dustry. This sum was too small to equip
an adequate manufacturing plant and an
effort was made to obtain some capital by
forming the Utah Silk association. They
invested about seven thousand dollars .and
did a good business for a time. Utah county
still has a flourishing silk association and
produce some good material.
	Silk is an indispensible article of com-
merce. The demand for it is growing all
the time. If Utah could produce more of
the necessary raw material it would greatly
add to our prosperity.
	At the close of the talk there was ex-
hibited the sage green silk in the sage de-
sign by Mrs. Dallin: threads from the
material of the Utah curtain, spun silk, silk
from perforated cocoons, Utah and Japanese
cocoons and a fine piece of Utah silk which
had been in use constantly for fifteen years.”
—S. L. Herald.


A LESSON.

	If standing on a lofty pinnacle one could
look down upon this great sea of human
life, how many lessons of a different
nature one might learn, how many do we
then learn as we mix up with, and struggle
for existence in this great tumultuous sea.
	A friend once taught me a lesson which I 
hope never to forget.
	One summer afternoon I was visiting my
friend Mrs. H, and after adjourning to her
neat cosy sitting-room to enjoy a quiet time
by ourselves, as we termed it, she soon be-
came busily employed with a beautiful
piece of fancy work, while I seated myself
on a low ottoman at the opposite side of
the room, and began passing away my
time by poring over the leaves of a photo- 
graph album.
	We had been silent for some time, each
one seemingly busy with her own thoughts. 
Now and then my glance would leave the
book and fall on my friend, and a pleasing
picture she made, sitting at a open window,
dressed in sweet negligee, well becoming
such a sultry day. She was a little above
the medium height, and possessed a full
rounded form; on this particular day she
wore a loose, cream-colored house dress of
some fine material, a cluster of dark red
roses was pinned on her bosom, her jet
black hair, naturally wavy, was tastily coiled
low in the neck. She was of English
birth, indeed one might easily imagine her
a descendant of some titled family.
	After one of these lingering looks, I again
began turning over the leaves until I came
to the picture of a man I had noticed before,
and whom I had met at my friend's house
several times.
	Suddenly I broke the silence by asking,
“how is it, Mrs. H, that you who are so
entirely of a different nature, are so closely
bound to this family by the ties of friend-
ship? I am told by good authority that he
cannot even write his own name, while his
wife is a perfect oddity, and really have you
noticed how their little daughter so idolizes
you that she mimics almost every move
made by you, until it becomes amusing?"
Mrs. H. made no remark, nor even looked
up until I had finished my outburst of talk,
then with heightened color, and with such
a look of reproof that I shall never forget,

		(Continued on page 175.)


(﻿Continued from page 171.)

she replied: “As uncouth and illiterate he
may appear to you, to me he is a noble
man. Himself and wife have proven to
me many times, in my hours of adversity
and trouble, that they are possessed of
warm, true hearts and noble impulses, both
of them will always be numbered among
the foremost of my circle of friends.
You, my dear friend, have yet to learn, “that
a friend in need is a friend indeed."
	Then with much enthusiasm she por-
trayed to me many touching incidents of
faithfulness, and acts of true friendship too
sacred to make bare to the public gaze, and
as I looked upon her, her face seemed far
more beautiful as it so plainly portrayed the
noble soul within.
	The lesson sank deep into my heart, and
I more fully realized that the roughest looking
diamonds are often the best, I begged my
friend’s pardon, and after becoming more fully
acquainted with the family, became one of
their warmest friends, and felt the truth of
the words, “All that glitters is not gold."
	A few years later I was again visiting at
my friend’s house in a different part of the
country, and under much altered circum-
stances. Again I was turning over the
leaves of her album, suddenly I came to
the photo of a young and beautiful girl,
whose well poised head, and delicate fea-
tures betokened culture and refinement.
To my question, “who is she?” Mrs. H—
smilingly replied, “Why don’t you recollect
the little mimmic?”’ With much surprise I
again gazed upon the photo what a
wonderful change I mentally exclaimed,
and that interview of so long ago came
vividly to mind.
	This then was the way she had returned
their great kindness in her hour of need.
Well knowing her influence, she had used
it in every delicate way possible, so that the
little mimic had grown into a beautiful and
accomplished young lady, fit to adorn any
society.
	What a grand lesson of faith and true
friendship. To me my friend seemed more
beautiful than ever, here indeed was one of
nature's own noble women, and since then,
as I have seen her in anguish and sorrow,
joy and sunshine, as her soul shone forth
in all its grandeur, steadily avoiding all the
quick sands of life that might in any way
degrade her pure womanhood, I have felt
to thank God that we have such noble
women in our midst, those that are worthy
of emulation. The hour of midnight is upon
me. Peace be with you all.—Written for
the U. W. P. Club by	IDA HAAG.


172 				WOMAN’S EXPONENT. 

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, -	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS, CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Term’s: one’copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by. mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
 	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 &228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
-econd class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,			JUNE 1, 1893.


WORLD’S CONGRESS OF WOMEN.

[Column 1]
	THE World's Congress of Representative
Women which convened in the Art Palace
in Chicago, commencing May 15, 1893, 
and continuing to May 21, inclusive, was
the most wonderful gathering of women 
that the world has ever seen. Its value 
among the nations of mankind in all 
countries, from which representation came,
and the results that will hereafter ensue 
cannot be estimated in the extent of knowl-
edge and wisdom disseminated, nor in the
spirit of love and abundant charity and
peace that were diffused throughout its
assemblies from its first session until its
last.
	A larger love and fellowship for and with
all humanity must necessarily follow such
a tremendous effort for the good of all
peoples. There is bound to be a great up-
heaving of the better and finer elements of 
society, and of higher education, through
and because of the intense and exalting 
views and sentiments that have been set 
forth and emphasized by the leaders of
thought and of principle along every line
of representation and illustrative work,
whether by force of reasoning, comparative
analysis, or by deep study and scientific
research, or by that deeper intuition that
comes as a spontaneous gift of excellence
to those who are prepared to receive.
	The experience of all those (if one may
speak in this large sense) who have attend-
ed the Congress and taken part in the pro-
ceedings, has been deeply suggestive of the
larger idea, the broader philanthropy and 
benevolence, peace and purity that is yet to
crown the world.
	Women of all lands have met on a com-
mon and universal platform, and the one
band that bound them has been peace and 
love and the inspiration of progression and 
advancement to the better and higher in the 
moral, mental and spiritual, as well as the
physical growth of the world. Serious
reflection and a deep solemnity has per-
vaded the heart of this great Congress of
women; and there is a significance
underlying this important work that should
be recognized by all thoughtful, truth-
seeking people and by all who are coming
to comprehend the vastness of the under-
taking of bringing into such beautiful
harmony women of all religions of what-
ever kind, or of no sentiment, or creed up-
on that subject, and uniting them in one 
great sisterhood, saying effectually, come
let us know each other better and love each
other more for the sake of the uplifting of

[Column 2]
those who sit in darkness, that they may
see how good a thing it is to dwell together
for a little season, for a jubilee of welcome
and of greetings to those who have come 
from afar, and to the stranger within the
gates of the nation that promises protection
and freedom to all, of whatever creed or
faith.
	Perhaps the most popular woman of the 
Congress, if we except Mrs. Palmer, was
Susan B. Anthony; everywhere she was
followed by immense crowds eager and
anxious to hear her speak, no matter what
the subject.
	Really the woman suffrage question was 
one of the most popular themes of dis-
cussion presented, and at the department
meeting of the suffrage organization the 
hall was crowded to suffocation, and a 
policeman had to be called to clear the way
for Miss Anthony, and as soon as she left
the meeting the crowd followed her in their
enthusiasm through the corridors into the 
main hall, where they gradually subsided
into a normal condition.
	The entire Woman’s Congress has been
such an unparalleled success, that it is likely 
to detract from those which immediately
follow it. For instance, the Press Congress
which commenced on Monday had much 
less enthusiasm and the numbers are
insignificant as compared with it, and this 
is the close of the second day.	The World’s Fair proper was scarcely
thought of while the Congress of Represen-
tative Women was in session, except as an
educating factor, a great object lesson, and 
its power of utility. Certainly it was the 
Columbian Exposition that made the Con-
gress of Women possible at this present
date—and also that rendered it more popu-
lar to men as well as women, but it was in 
a very great measure due to the earnestness,
activity, force and persistent determination,
fore-thought and concentrated, vigorous ex-
ecutive work of the chairman and secretary
of the Woman’s Branch of the Auxiliary
that the Congress attained to the excellence
acknowledged by all who visited it and
especially those who took part, for they 
know whereof they speak. The President,
Mrs. Palmer, and the Vice-President, Mrs. 
Hamotin, were both deeply interested in
the Congress; but in consequence of their
official positions and the duties pertaining 
thereto could not devote the time Mrs. 
Sewall and Mrs. Avery gave to the details
of the matter. The Congress has now 
passed into history and will be recorded in the 
archives of the country as one of the greatest
events of modern times. All honor to those 
who planned and executed such a Memorial
Congress for the women of the world. 
Their names will not only be emblazoned
upon the history of America, but en-
graven upon the hearts of the people of 
our own and other nations, as heroines
worthy the magnificent cause of elevating
woman and preparing the way for all wo-
men to advance like an army well equipped
to stand for a mighty cause dearer than 
life, their homes and the solidarity of hu-
man interests.
	The receptions tendered to the ladies of
the Congress during the week added much
to its pleasure, and gave the women op-
portunities of introductions and social 
converse they would not otherwise have
enjoyed.
	The West End Club issued hundreds of 
invitations for a reception on Tuesday, May
17, at the Illinois Club House, Ashland

[Column 3]
Boulevard. The house was handsomely
decorated and illuminated, a band of music
playing behind a wall of flowers and ferns,
at the farther end of the reception hall;
several rooms were crowded beside the large
main hall with beauty, gaiety, sprightli-
ness, and brilliancy, as well as fine figures
and elegant costumes. In fact the whole 
affair baffles all description; one not ac-
customed to scenes of this kind could only 
gaze silently on the beautiful picture and
admire the ease and dignity which 
characterized the ladies who took charge of 
the arrangements. Refreshments were 
served to all in a most artistic way, and
though the ladies informed us the Club 
was new, the members must have been long
accustomed to the etiquette of formal re-
ceptions. The floral decorations added
greatly to the delight of the guests.
	Wednesday afternoon was the reception 
of the Illinois Press Association, and 
Thursday the Chicago Woman's Club, 
both of them grand and enjoyable; and 
Friday Mrs. Potter Palmer gave a reception 
at the Woman’s Building. Band of music,
speeches, and violin solo by a young lady;
many distinguished women were introduced
to the audience from the platform.
	After the exercises the ladies were free to 
visit and converse, and in the adjoining 
room tea from Ceylon was served by real
Ceylonese girls in their native dress; which
was quite a picture in itself.
	There were a large number of Utah wo-
men there, among whom we noticed Mrs.
Amelia F. Young, Mrs. Carlie Y. Cannon 
and her daughter, Carroll; Mrs. Maria Y.
Dougal, Miss Mary Teasdel, Miss Josephine
Spencer, Mrs. Ellen C. Clawson and her 
daughter, Rubie; Mrs. Josephine West, and 
Emily S. Richards, President of the Board
of Lady Managers for Utah; and Miss May 
Preston, the Secretary. There were also 
the delegates to the Congress, Mrs. Zina D. 
H. Young, Mrs. Jane S. Richards, Mrs. 
Elmina S. Taylor and her daughter Miss 
Mae Taylor, Mrs. Martha H. Tingey, Dr.
M. Hughes Cannon, Mrs. Zina Y. Card,
and perhaps one or two more whose names
we do not now recall. It was a charming 
afternoon and was one of those happy ex-
pressions of generous sympathy and inter-
est in the work of the Woman’s Congress
that Mrs. Palmer has been in the habit of
extending to all the public enterprises;
manifesting her delicate appreciation of the 
good work women are doing for the cause 
of human progress.
	Mrs. Palmer and Mrs. Henrotin received 
together, many hundreds being introduced 
meantime, and having the very great
pleasure of a word from this truly gracious
and queenly woman who has shown her-
self so abundantly competent to fill the 
arduous duties assigned her by the Con-
gress of the United States. Mrs. Salisbury, 
one of the Vice-Presidents, as also Lady
Commissioner for Utah, was present and 
showed us with pardonable pride the 
elegant silk curtains made in Utah of
native silk for the Woman’s building; also
the piano scarf, the broadcloth curtains, etc.
all displayed on this memorable occasion.
Mrs. Palmer, Mrs. Henrotin and Mrs. 
Salisbury are a trio of attractive, brilliant 
and fascinating women; unsurpassed in 
their attainments for the place of honor
assigned to them, and are a credit to the 
country they so ably represent.
	This article is already too long and yet it
seems nothing has been told. The
magnificence, the extreme elegance of


these entertainments, is beyond language
to convey to those who have not seen it for
themselves. At another time we will tell
our readers of the luncheon given by Mrs.
Sewall at the Richelieu, on Saturday 20th,
and of Mrs. Pa mer’s reception at her own
house on Monday 21st, which the Utah
ladies had the pleasure of attending.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ONLY A GLANCE.

	THE Columbian Exposition is certainly
the greatest event in the largest sense of
the word that has been in any age of the
world of which we have any knowledge,
so far as learning, invention and practical
utility for the higher development of the
arts and sciences are concerned.
	To attempt any adequate description of
this mammoth, this gigantic human under-
taking would require a superhuman effort
almost, at any rate a tremendous power of
physical nerve force and mental calibre.
One may go day after day in the same
building (either of the large ones) and yet
feel he has not seen the half there is to be
seen.  Writing up the World's Fair is be-
ing done on a very infinitesimal scale.  It is
like throwing a pebble into the water, and
is a most unsatisfactory work; and yet so
many attempt it, the daily papers here have
the best chance of course, and yet large as
they are, and bright as the men and women
are who are upon the editorial and repor-
torial staffs of these ponderous dailies,
even they do not pretend to write up and
keep pace with what is going on in all
departments.
	Many things are unfinished, and men and
women are constantly doing and making
improvements, and the more they plan, and
the more they do, the more complicated the
work of summing it up becomes.  Then
there is the constant current of people com-
ing and going.  Who can expect to tell of
even the noted people, who are so modest
as not to force themselves upon public notice
to be mentioned in the daily press.
	What one can say is only like a side
scene, and barely a suggestion of the great,
actual, intense fact that has begun to change
the whole tenor of life in the great City of
Chicago.  It comes over one every now and
then like a magnificent dream of splendor
and enchantment, and it is hard to believe
even in the midst of it, that it is a deep
and far-reaching reality, permeating the
entire present, and reaching out to the great
unknown, and significant future.  We
have many of us been saying that life was
full of promise, the world was opening out
into broader fields and a higher expanse of
intellectual endowment, of civilization and
enlightenment, and yet with all the pro-
phetic intuition of the inspirational soul,
none of us  ever imagined in our fondest
dreams of any thing so lofty, so intensely
educational, so mighty in its tendencies and
benefits, as this Exposition now seems to
have become.  All the sciences of all the
ages seem to have culminated in this one
period of time, and the wheels of progress
still roll onward "conquering and to
conquer."
	A goodly number of our Utah people,
bright  men and women, have been visiting
the Exposition grounds day after day; for 
our own part, we have been wholly occupied
for two weeks with congresses and the
consequent duties and obligations, social and
otherwise the congresses involved.
	Only now for the last day or two have

[Column 2]
we begun to peep in at the enormous won-
ders of this gigantic enterprise that has
drawn together people of all nations, with
their best productions in every art known to
mankind as well as the learned professions,
and the products of industries not yet ar-
rived at the perfection styled arts in modern
phraseology.
	The writer is free to confess she knows
not where to begin or what to see first;
however, making a bold dash to accomplish
some little in the way of sight-seeing, we
began with one place seemingly more in
our own line of work—viz., “The Wo-
man’s Building.” We had attended one,
two, three receptions there, one of these
the unveiling of the statue of Harriet
Beecher Stowe, with ceremonies or exercises
in the beautiful and artistically decorated
library; in fact had been chaperoned
through some parts of it by one of the
Lady Managers, and yet felt in view of its
exquisite beauty how comparatively little
we know; and so as we say in the story,
this was our starting point.  Like many
other buildings it contains many unpacked,
unopened boxes, mysteries yet to be revealed.
There is more even now than one can 
readily study or describe, and the fact seems
always uppermost how little we poor mor-
tals know of the great, wide, wide world in
its richness and abundance—how small and
insignificant we are in and of ourselves.
	As all our readers are doubtless aware, the
architect was Miss Sophia S. Hayden of
Boston (how glad I am ’twas a Boston wo-
man.)  The building is two stories high
and the rotunda is sixty-five by seventy
feet reaching through the height of the 
building and covered with a skylight.  On
the roofs of the pavilions are open areas.
One serves as a cafe and one as a tea
garden.
	At the extreme ends of the rotunda are
two immense paintings, containing many
figures, and scenes in the most delicate
colors, and the effect upon the observer is
almost entrancing; it lifts one into a region
of highly cultivated art and leaves the im-
pression of the picture engrafted upon the
imagination. In the midst of the beauty
and delight of these crowning efforts of
woman's genius, displayed in the building
and its adornments, it is difficult to define
the emotions that possess the human soul,
at least the soul of a sympathetic, sensitive
woman.  It seemed we were lifted out of
this every day, practical age in which we
are living, into a land of beauty, of lights
and shadows that blended in the most at-
tractive harmony of color and of effect, and
all around above and below were things of
beauty of the finest order.
	Mrs. Candace Wheeler, who has had
charge of the decorative work and the
blending of harmonious colors, and objects,
is herself the personification of exquisite
taste in dress and appearance, and her
sweet unaffected ways win all hearts.  One
sees at a glance how well the lady man-
agers have chosen in making the selection
they did for this important but onerous
position.  All the pictures, needlework,
lace, embroidery, and tapestry here have
been done by woman’s hands and skill,
wrought out of her ingenious brain.  The
pictures she has painted, the books she has
written, the papers she has edited and pub-
lished, the silk she has manufactured, the
spinning, weaving and knitting, with all 
and every sort of work or of invention, all
these are here a splendid testimonial of
woman’s power and force in the great liv-

[Column 3]
ing, breathing world of which she is a
necessary factor in the economy of nature.


LUNCHEON AT THE RICHELIEU.

	THE invitations were very handsome,
large cards with the seal and motto of the
National Council of Women, the United
States at the top and the names of its officers
just underneath.
	The invitations read, "The Officers of the 
National Council of Women of the United
States desire the pleasure of your company
at a luncheon, given in honor of the
Officers of the International Council of
Women, at half past one o'clock on the
afternoon of Saturday, May, 20th, 1893.
—The Richelieu."
	The envelopes also had the seal and
motto lithographed the same as the card.
It was very fine indeed, quite in keeping
with the Council itself, and the grand re-
ception to be given.
	There were four delegates from Utah
present, and we feel sure they will never
forget the splendor of the rooms, nor the
brilliancy of the entertainment.  There
were a number of distinguished foreigners
in attendance.  A description of the dresses
worn and of these ladies themselves would
be interesting to most of our readers, but
we are not good at that sort of thing, but
can tell you their faces beamed with in-
telligence which made them all appear
radiantly beautiful.  Mrs. May Wright
Sewall, President of the National Council,
was the presiding genius and leading spirit
of the occasion.  She looked like a queen
and her premier, Mrs. Rachel Foster Avery,
was near to assist and execute her behests,
and do honor to the occasion, which was
such an opportune time to manifest apprecia-
tion of the delegates who had come from
other lands.  The parlor where the guests
assembled was like a garden of lillies and
roses, and the beautiful women gathered
there were the real gems of lustre and
loveliness from the various countries
whither they had come.
	It was a scene of beauty and of elegance;
but after a few moments' conversation with
each other the announcement was made
that dinner was served in one of the rooms
above.  The guests mounted one staircase
after another until the banquet hall was
reached, bright with banners and most
fragrant with roses, and the fact is
significant that there were assembled there
the representative women of the highest
and finest civilization of the world.
	The tables were presided over by the
hostesses of the occasion, the central one
having in the chair of honor the dignified
President of the Council, May Wright
Sewall.
	The eight tables were arranged in the
form of a cross and there were something
over a hundred guests present, though the
vacant seats stated the fact that others
had been invited but were for some reason
absent.  The floral decorations were oblong
in form, piled high with American roses
(dark red in color), smilax and ferns.
	The menu on a handsome card was in 
French and the delicacies were elegantly
served.  Conversation at each table was
lively and enjoyable, at least it was where
we were seated; at the head of the table
was Isabella Charles Davis, the Recording
Secretary of the National Council, who
presided graciously and conversed with all
as freely as possible.  The writer was seated


on her right, and next was Mrs. Lydia
Coonley, a very influential woman of
Chicago, who had charge of the Musical
Concert, which closed the Woman’s Con-
gress. At this table were Mr. and Mrs.
Nordquist of Finland, and Fraulein Koethe
Shirmacher, Mrs. Pico Beck Meyer, Frau
Ann Simson.
	After the repast, which lasted a long
time, as eleven courses were served, the
music, which had been played at intervals
far enough away to make a charming
sensation, struck up in lively style, “God
Save the Queen,’’and immediately the ban-
queters rose to their feet and the women of
Great Britain felt they were honored.
Mrs. Sewall rose and in a few graceful
words of welcome congratulated the ladies
and informed them of the presence of her
husband at the banquet, which she said
afforded her unspeakable pleasure. Mrs.
Foster Avery spoke in her modest and
happy style and alluded to the sad fact
that her husband was not there, and both
ladies paid very pleasing compliments to
the foreign delegates and the husbands
who had accompanied the delegates. The
foreign delegates were asked to rise, and
the showing was very good.
	Mrs. Fenwick Miller, of the Illustrated
London News, responded to the call for
England, Madame Isabella Bogelot for
France, Margaret Sullivan as an Irish-
American, Fraulein Koethe Shermacher
for Germany, other countries represented
by foreign delegates were Greece, Finland.
Bavaria, Spain, Sweden, Denmark, Nor-
way and Bohemia. Clara Barton, the
famous Red Cross celebrity, Jennie Lozier,
President of Sorosis, Isabella Charles
Davis, Frances Boshy and Mary F. East-
man, each made brief but pertinent
speeches. Susan B. Anthony was called,
and as she rose from her seat every one
was standing, waving her a salute, she look-
ed over the sea of faces of her friends beam-
ing upon her and in her off-hand way said,
“Sit down, girls!” whereupon they all sat
down.
	After the ladies had so many of them
spoken, Mrs. Sewall called upon the
gentlemen present who had come across
the sea and continent to bring their wives
to the Congress of the world, and each one
spoke a few words of stirring sympathy
and genuine encouragement.
	As a fit closing to this memorable enter-
tainment Mrs. Sewall said she had intended
to have prepared some memento of this 
great occasion that each one could carry
away as a remembrance of the time, but in
the midst of the work found no time to
prepare a suitable gift, she therefore beg-
ged the ladies before leaving the table to
take some of the roses as a simile of
affection in the hearts of the American wo-
men for their sisters in every land, explain-
ing that this rose, the “American Beauty,”
if not so graceful in form or delicate in hue,
as were many roses, had the sweetest breath
of all those that bloom on American soil.
This characteristic gathering of noted wo-
men of the National and International
Council was a  beautiful and appropriate
occasion for cementing the friendship of
women from various countries and from
the two continents.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ONE DAY IN JUNE.

	A PERFECT morning dawned in Chicago
on the 6th of June, the day Her Royal

[Column 2]
Highness the Infanta of Spain was expected
to arrive at mid-day. At the Palmer
House there seemed to be a great stir, and
people were coming in crowds; around the
outside entrance the conversation was most
amusing—the old colored porter was inces-
santly sweeping the steps and side walk;
the colors of Spain and the flag of our
country were swaying in the breeze, and the
servants seemed prouder than ever,explain-
ing to each other this and that about Spain
and the Infanta. The elevators were
decked too for the occasion and all was
bright and gay as a fine day could be.
	The parlors that had been made ready
days before were decorated with ferns,
palms, pansies, roses and apple blossoms,
and the bright sunshine streamed in upon
the fresh paint and varnish making it seem
more fit for a princess. The three big
archways in the rotunda were hung with
the flags of both nations. The guests of
the hotel and many more who had crowded
in, congregated in the hall leading to the
apartments assigned, and were a formidable
array against the officers who attempted to
clear the passage way; forced from their
position they filled the staircases leading
above, but the cool-headed officers warned
them to vacate lest there should be an
accident, and finally succeeded in crowding
them back to the east end, leaving the way
from the elevators clear for the royal party.
Expectancy was on tiptoe and so were the
crowd inside, standing on chairs, and sofas
and in window seats, and jostling each
other, pushing and elbowing, up and down
to get a better position.
	Outside the cannons were fired, the
bands of music were playing, but those
who were in could not get out, nor even
into their rooms. There they must stay now
until the princess should come. At last the
murmur rose as it were in the air, and
whispers in the crowd—and soon handker-
chiefs were waving all around and the
royal party stepped from the elevator to
the parlor floor, and those of us who were
crowded back to the east end of the hall
saw very little, the writer saw her back,
pretty well but not a glimpse of her face
—she was dressed in some soft grey mater-
al, and wore a small bright red hat, the
ladies were exclaiming one to the other the
moment the parlor door closed, “how
gracious,” and “how sweet,” “how charm-
ing,” “how elegant,” and all sorts of pretty
compliments were paid, but she was none
the wiser, nor doubtless did she care; it
was really quite exciting however, especially
beforehand; some of the women were very
greatly incensed at having to vacate the
seats in the hall, and one could hear the
remark repeated over and over, “when
Frances Cleveland came they didn’t pay
her this honor, and she’s our queen and the
first lady in the land,” and many similar
references were made to distinguished
Americans. One English woman declared
she would not move unless she chose, and
said openly to the officer, ‘‘and supposing
we won’t move back,” he replied coolly,
“then it will be a matter of compulsion.”
She did not relent however, and declared if
he laid his hand on her she would appeal to
the British Consul, she was a guest of the
house. Isabella Bucher Hooker, the grand
old veteran woman, maintained her position
with quiet dignity in one of the easy chairs,
where she could see the whole affair; she
was not disturbed,though she had been told
to move like the rest. Afterwards some of
the ladies insisted Mr. Palmer had done right,

[Column 3]
others said it was a matter of business, and
so the opinions varied. We met Mr. Horne
in the hall just when the excitement was
dying out, had not seen him before since he
was in Utah in 1876; he chatted pleasantly
for a few minutes of the people he met
while in Salt Lake, and the places he visited
there. He looks as young as he did seven-
teen years ago, he seemed very proud of
Mrs. Palmer, and well he may be for she is
a most charming and gracious woman, and
is every inch a queen in grace and dignity,
she has won the hearts of the people by
her admirable tact, executive, management,
and loveliness of character.
	We had been loitering during the morn-
ing expecting to see our dear little niece
Edna arrive, but finding at two p. m. she
had not called, we took the train for the
World’s Fair grounds and in fifteen minutes
more we were at the station, and made our
way in with the crowd that throngs the
way day after day with every train,
Naturally we turn towards the Woman’s
Building, but today determined to see the
German village and other places in the Mid-
way Plaisance. So hurrying on we turned
in at the gate which leads towards the
German village, past Java district and half
a dozen other foreign places; crossing the
drawbridge we enter the archway of a
German castle. On one side is the museum
and at the doorway a characteristic young
German in native costume is calling out in
a deep voice what wonders are to be seen
inside for twenty-five cents. We turned
towards the dining room, fitted up in the
style of a German banqueting hall, the
black bread and strong coffee and many
other delicacies were being served to the
hungry World’s Fair visitors; after lunch-
ing there our next resort was across the
wide thoroughfare to the Panorama of the,
Bernese Alps, which we enjoyed very much
indeed; having so often heard descriptions
of the romantic scenery, we were anxious
to get an idea from the panoramic view; it
was next to being there for one could easily
imagine the reality from the effect of the
painting. The shepherds were tending
their flocks and herds of goats and cows,
and the hotel Manlichen not far off was also
very like what one would suppose it to be.
In the distance the blue waters of Lake
Thun, beyond Lake Thun lies the plains of
Antertaken; the slopes bloom with Alpine
roses and blue gentian, and one fancies
the edelweiss among the snow; the short
grass and fir trees look real, as well as the
rocks and mosses. The loquacious manager
told us that Agassiz ascended the Jungfrau
in 1841, and also Professor Desor both of
Neuchtael in Switzerland, and that it is
more than 12,000 feet high. Lest our good
friends of Switzerland should laugh at our
description we will only add that as we
gazed our fill at the snow-capped mountains
and beautiful vales below, we felt like one
in a foreign country or in dreamland, and
coming out into the open street and look-
ing at the strange faces and wonders all
around, one must be impervious to sight
and sound not to be greatly impressed, you
no sooner emerge from the doorway, than
you see Turks, Arabs, Greeks, Japanese,
and here are the ladies (men too) in Sedan
chairs,being carried about, and the wheeling
chairs trundled along by the boys in their
blue uniform. A little distance away is
another view of Switzerland, “A day in the
Alps," and the, Alpine glow worked by
electricity. Entering a dark room, half
circle like a miniature theatre, one sees just


enough to show the piano and the electric
machinery; in front the dark blue curtain,
the music begins to play, the man with the
electricity also begins his work, the curtain
rises slowly, he touches one button after
another and the scene is enchanting. It
is sunrise in the Alps—the scene changes
again and again, giving all the delightful
lights and shades and finally a tremendous
storm of thunder roaring and lightning
flashing, very realistic—then the storm
clears away, the sunshine lights up again
all the peaks of snow and they glow like
fire in the sunset; twilight comes on apace,
the stars peep out, the moon rises over the
mountain tops, and the queen of night
holds her reverie of enchantment; the cur-
tain goes down, the music ceases, and the
people go out bewildered into the glaring
sunlight of the White City.
	Our next visit was to the Venetian Glass
Works, where we saw the processes of the
glass blowers; a very beautiful sight indeed,
and after watching them for some time,
went through the wareroom to see the
display. One cannot help wishing to buy,
if only a gift for a friend, and some pieces
are only a trifle—but there are so many
beautiful things and those who have only
a scanty supply of the needful—must come
out empty-handed.
	Again we wander on past the inner gate-
way of the Plaisance, and towards the
fountains, and though we pass crowds upon
crowds of people, see not one that we ever
saw before; the artificial lake with its pretty
white swans and flashing gondolas, and
which are always attractive, we pause as we
pass to admire, and then hurry on eager to
see more before nightfall, and there is so
much to see one knows not where to turn.
However this time I turned to see the
French Marine cafe, a picturesque building
just at the water’s edge—all around on
the balconies were the tables (white linen
fluttering in the breeze,) and the music
playing, but above it rang out the German
chimes and we hastened  on towards Ger-
many.
	It is impossible to tell in one letter what
has been seen in a day or part of a day at
the Exposition; but after going to the
German building we hastened to the station
lest we should not return by the World’s
Fair train with a ten cent ticket, for at seven
o’clock these trains stop, and of course we
had seen enough for one day, and not once
the face of a friend after leaving the hotel.
	Reaching the Palmer House, weary and
hungry,we remembered the invitation to
the Central Music Hall, where Mrs. Albert
Barker was to recite, and whom we wished
very much to hear; and so after taking sup-
per and reading all about Eulalie in the
evening papers, wended our way to the
place of amusement. Central Music Hall
is a very handsome building inside, and a
good place to see and hear, we had been
there once before to a Dress Reform meet-
ing; this was more like a full and very
fashionable dress affair, diamonds were
flashing and jewels gleaming all around.
The organ music was the orchestra and it
was excellent. It was the opening night
of a series and Mr. Barr McIntosh, the
manager, was on the program for "A Few
Pointed Remarks,’’and they were certainly
pointed. He also read a letter, he stated
that had just received from the Infanta,
(which was not included in the program)
to show his standing in foreign countries
where he had visited.
	The artists were all particular good,

[Column 2]
each in the line of work he or she repre-
sented; but the dancing and singing
pleased the writer most of all. The Spanish
Dance of little Miss Gladys Theodora with
tambourine, and little Genevia, actress and
dancer,and Miss Gladys in the “Red, White
and Blue’’ dance were the most attractive.
Miss Jessie Miller, the “California Child
Cornetist,” was very wonderful. The
singers, both men and women, had fine
voices and it was really the singing we
liked best. Miss Laura Lucile Harmy,
soprano, was perhaps the best, though Miss
Belle Chamberlain has a very rich and pure
mezzo-soprano voice. Miss Jennie O’Neill
Potter after announcing that she would
give as an encore, “How Salvator Won
the Race, ” recited pathetically, "Swinging
in the Grapevine Swing,’’ and then, true
to her promise, gave the other in a truly
exciting style which elicited loud applause.
Mrs. Albert Barker, styled “The Bird
Songstress,” created quite a furore with
her extraordinary mimicry of bird notes,
which she does not produce with her lips,
the sounds being of the thorax it is a re-
markable vocalization. She gave as an
encore, ‘‘The wind and the moon,’’which is
more extraordinary still. One might
imagine the whistling roaring wind as it
comes in shrill and piercing blasts from the
canyons of the Rocky Mountains, and yet
she does it in the most natural manner,
without apparent effort. We must not for-
get Miss Helen Mar, the humorous reader
and raconteur. Mr. W. P. Mc'Henry,
baritone, has a superb voice,and. Ashfon D.
Goodrich, improvisator, played, the piano,
and’ whistled bird imitations with much
ability.‘‘Southern Melodies” by the
Virginia Students was vociferously ap-
plauded. All the music and other artists
were good but one cannot go into details,
there is no time save for generalities.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	

﻿


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	A BRIGHT French woman is seeking a
nomination to the Chamber of Deputies.
Of  course her election would not take
place even were she nominated, no more 
than the election of Mrs. Lockwood to the
presidency, but not long since the women of
France scarcely dared speak on political 
matters in fear of banishment and like
a treatment to that of Madam Da Stael and
Madam Recamer, but thanks to the free
institutions of a Republican form of govern-
ment the French Woman's wit and power
is no longer confined to the salon but she 
has many public privileges which she uses
not only for the advancement of her own
self, but for the benefit of all mankind.
Thus step by step woman's sphere is
broadened and her realm will yet embrace
the universe.
	WE feel sure the people of Utah will be
pleased to know that the two pictures sent
by Miss Kate Wells, of Salt Lake City,
were accepted for the Woman's Building.
The Indian Chief colored by her, hangs in a
very conspicuous place in the gallery up-
stairs, at the right hand of the staircase, so
that when you turn to the right it is the
first in the long line of these beautiful pro-
ductions. The colored photographs of the
six girls is not yet placed but will no doubt
be where it can be seen and admired. The
book of poems, ‘‘Songs and Flowers of the
Wasatch," has reached Chicago safely and
Mrs. Margaret Blaine Salisbury, to whom


it is dedicated, will take care that it is where
it will make the best showing.
	It is certainly a very beautiful book, and
Utah may well be proud of the work, both
poetical and artistic. It is excellent in
every respect.


THOUGHTS ABOUT WOMEN
		PAST AND PRESENT.

	THERE has been a great deal said and
written about women of late years; how
brave and noble some have been in speak-
ing and lecturing on moral and social re-
form and political liberty for women.
	It is all very good, but I wonder why
they do not inculcate more love and rever-
ence for Deity in their speaking, and lectur-


[Column 1]
ing, certainly pure religion is a necessary
element for all to possess, particularly wo-
men who are public speakers and it is of
vital importance to them in all the walks of
life. Surely it would be wise for those wo-
men who aim to be public benefactors, to
speak about the prevention of those crimes
that are wasting away the people of this
and other nations. They might save some
from degradation by so doing.
	We often read the names and characters
of women of Bible fame; there is no doubt
but those women, in connection with their
husbands, suffered a great deal of persecu-
tion and death for their religion and it
gives one the horrors to read the history of
that time.
	It is true that some of the Mormon wo-
men of this Gospel dispensation have been
tried to the very heart’s core for their
religious belief through persecution and
prosecution. They have made and are still
making a history for themselves that will
astonish future generations. We also read
the characters of thousands of Nephite wo-
men who were brave and noble in their day.
Where can we read of more nobility of
soul in women than can be found in the
Book of Mormon, especially in the Book of
Alma, in the story of Helaman and his two
thousand sons or striplings, as he chose to
call them, who were so full of the spirit of
faith, implanted in their bosoms by their
loving and God-fearing mothers. These
mothers taught them that if they did not
doubt, God would deliver them from the
hands of their enemies. Their mothers’
teachings and prayers made them valiant
with courage for the cause, and bravely they
took up their weapons of war, and went forth
to battle in the name of Israel’s God,
conquering and subduing the enemies
of their adopted country.
	Where can there be found a more noble
example of fealty to God than the Nephite
mothers possessed. We surmise they had all
of the vicissitudes of human life to con-
tend with. Well, as mothers in Israel,
would we not do well to emulate those
Nephite mothers, teaching our noble and
ambitious sons such God-like, principles?
I know I will as far as I have the ability.
We know of the past but do not know of
the future, or what a day may bring forth;
the American motto is, “In time of peace
prepare for war.” We read considerable
about the beauty of the Nephite women, it
consisted mostly in the workmanship of
their own hands, in making and wearing
their own apparel. What a pity they did not
continue to do so. Yes, we read of mothers
of kings doing it. I do not know what
some of our royal mothers would have to
say, nowadays, about spinning and weaving
cloth for their royal sons to wear, we know
the pioneer women of Utah did it and were
glad to get the material to do it with; I
know I was and if we did not have kings
to wear it, we had prophets and sons of
prophets. What a glorious time of
religious freedom it was then when we
worshiped the Lord in home-made cloth.
I wish it was made now and worn by some
of the sisters of our Church! I think there
would be more humility of heart and less
partiality shown through the love of dress.
Do not think for a moment the writer does
not love a nice dress, for I do; but I do not
intend that the wearing of a good dress or
anything else shall run away with my
discretion in other matters, besides it is not
the wearing of fine clothes that is wrong
but the pride it is likely to produce.

[Column 2]
Vanity and pride were among, the first
things that caused the downfall of the
Nephites as a nation, by the wearing of
fine and costly apparel and all kind of
jewels and rich ornaments. They became
stiffnecked and proud in their hearts toward
the Lord their God. Let us learn a lesson
from them and cultivate the spirit of
humility one towards the other,and not look
down with contempt on those who are not
able to dress so well, for we should remem-
ber they might be the Lord’s poor and that
man looketh on the outward appearance
but the Lord looketh on the heart.
	Thinking of these things will do us good,
our love for the Gospel will be strengthened
and fortified and prepare us to pass through
trials and afflictions which the writer knows
some have an abundance of. We also
know we shall get the blessings the Lord
has promised by complying with His re-
quirements. One word, about the Salt
Lake City Temple that has just been dedi-
cated. I was privileged in going to see it
myself. It looked so grand and beautiful,
and oh! what a glorious influence I felt. It
was so peaceful and holy that I almost lost
myself in my thoughts. In thinking of
the goodness of God in permiting me to
come forth in this gospel dispensation and
to be made a recipient of such glorious bless-
ings as there are to be obtained in the
Temples.
	I could write much more but let this
suffice. Now is a day for all hearts to be
comforted, and filled with love one for
another so as to enable the Lord’s people to
stand firm in the faith whatever troublous
times may come.
	Respectfully, a Sister in the Gospel, 
				ISABELLA PRATT PRICE.
Mill Creek Ward, May 12th, 1893.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THIS year the Queen of England cele-
brated her birthday by bestowing many of
the honors she always showers at this time
upon the journalists. This proves how
great is her respect and her admiration for
all the noble service performed by the men
of the English press. She has knighted
John Tennill, the artist in Punch. It is
said that his picture of Gen. Gordon stand-
ing behind an earthwork and looking across
the desert for some sight of an English
soldier to rescue him did more than any
political speech or pamphlet to touch the
English hearts and rouse them to a sense
of duty to their deserted soldiers on the
Nile. Queen Victoria understands this,
which is why she has rewarded him.


OBITUARY.

	DIED, at Goshen, in the midst of her dear
family and friends, our beloved sister and co-
laborer, Louisa Gwyther Taylor, after a long and
severe sickness, March 15th, 1893. She was born
in Bristol. Somersetshire, England, Jan. 15th,
1827. Was the daughter of Thomas and Louisa
Gwyther. In 1847 she first heard the gospel as
taught by the Latter day Saints, believed, received
and obeyed the same, with full purpose of heart.
Was married to Elder George Taylor, Oct. 19th,
1853. She was a full believer in the gathering,
and emigrated to Utah in 1860, and settled in
Goshen. When the Relief Society was organ-
ized, she was chosen secretary; which office she
faithfully fulfilled for 23 years, when death re-
leased her. She was also a faithful Sabbath
School teacher, and a member of the choir. A
faithful Latter-day Saint, loving mother, a true
friend and diligent worker in the great work of
the Lord. She leaves a husband, one son, three


daughters,and sixteen grand-children,who greatly
mourn her loss.
	The Relief Society  adopted  the  following
resolutions of respect to her memory:
	Whereas—her faithful labors as a secretary in
the Relief Society, a useful member and beloved
neighbor, were  so  esteemed, we  feel to tender
our heartfelt sympathy  to the bereaved husband
and family.
	Resolved,  That a copy of these resolutions
be sent to  the EXPONENT, one to  the husband,
and  also  be placed  upon the  records  of  the
Relief Society.

Her life speaks a volume of kind words and deeds,
She has spent a long  life in supplying the needs
Of the poor and the lowly, the tried and the true,
There   was   nothing too   hard    for her    kind
		heart to do.
					MAY JOHNSON, Prest.
					MARY DODDS
		Committee.	MARTHA CHRISTENSON,
					JULIA OKELBERY,


DOCTOR MATTIE HUGHES CANNON,
	Office: II South, First West Street.
Office practice for Diseases of Women from 2
	until 4 p. m.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
	Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
 ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
  AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
   POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
No. 41 S.
WEST TEMPLE STREET,
Opp. Grant Bros. Stables.

MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p.m.

R.K. THOMAS
26,28,30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY. 

	The Leading Retail
Cash House,

R. K. THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS

 Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FOR[--]
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
[---] promptly responded to.
DAVID JAMES, Box. 306. Salt Lake City

DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP, will commence
her summer class in Obstetrics and Nursing
on Monday May 1st 1893.
    Office and residence 34  East, 5th South
Telephone 383.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 21.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 15, 1893.			No. 24. 177


CONTENTS:
    The  World's Fair-Etta   L.  Gilchrist.   Wo
man's Relief Society.    Utah Women in Chicago.
Tell of their Western Life.    In Rural England-
A Story.   U.  W.  P. Club-Gladys Woodmansee.
R.  S. Reports.   Notes and News.   In Memoriam.

    EDITORIAL:--Noted Women at  the Congress.
Edltorial Notes.

Poetry:-Spirit Revealings-L. M. Hewlings.
To My Sister-Alofa.    Eden-Ruth M. Fox.


SPIRIT REVEALINGS.
AN unspoken voice breathed o’er me, 
	In the stillness of the night,
As I watched in my lone chamber,
	For the dawning of the light,
I arose with earnest purpose,
	Trimmed the mid-night lamp anew,
All the while with soul communing
	Of the work that it must do.

Not a sound of breezes stirring, 
	Nor the fall of footsteps near,
Yet there seemed an unseen presence,
	To sustain and banish fear,
There was hush of holy quiet,
	And a silence so profound,
It enwrapped me like a garment,
	In its massive folds around.

Multiplied cares that had harassed,
	Questions that tried heart and brain,
Into thin air quickly vanished,
	Leaving me no ache or pain,
I saw afar thro’ the distance,
	By hope’s cheering rainbow kissed,
Things that before had been hidden,
	O’er clouded by doubts and mist.

Traced the divine in the human,
	O'er temptation’s rough sea,
Heard the sweet voice of the Risen,
	"Weary one, come unto me!"
I searched thro’ a volume ancient;
	Searched as for hidden gold,
The wonders of its revealing,
	By mortals can ne’er be told.

Love boundless and without measure,
	Throughout the universe spread,
Embracing the whole forever,
	Restoring to life the dead,
It flooded with peace the spirit,
	Encased in its prison cell,
Pre-visioned the final triumph
	Of good, over death and hell.

Far over the wreck of nations,
	And the world’s wide paths sin strown,
The true signal lights were gleaming,
	To guide earth’s wanderers home.
					L. M. HEWLINGS.


[Column 1]
                   THE WORLD'S FAIR.

ANOTHER INTERESTING LETTER FROM OUR
                     CORRESPONDENT.
   [The Ashtabula News Journal May 23rd,
1893, copied.]
    THE rooms at the Art Palace for the ses-
sions of Congress are very unfitted for such

[Column 2]
purposes, and the noise of passing trains
on one side, the trampling of feet or speak-
ing in adjoining rooms separated only by
thin board partitions, added to faulty
acoustic properties makes it impossible for
more than half the audience to hear dis-
tinctly. Washington and Columbus Hall
are the largest and supposed to seat 3500
people and give standing room to five hun-
dred more. It is usually filled, as are also
all the others, from thirteen to twenty-five
Congresses being held at the same time.
     Yesterday we went from one to another
of the Congresses, listening to Helen
Gardener in one room, Fannie Harley in
another and so on. Finally we drifted into
the Congress where an authors’ meeting
was being held. There I met a number of
friends, among them Mrs. Leila P. Roby of
Chicago, who writes under the nom de
plume of “Miles Standish,” and whose
mission in life seems to be to make other
people happy; and dear little Mrs. Lincoln
of Washington, (Bessie Beach.) Mrs. Roby
invited us to luncheon with her and the
Chicago Study Club invited us to a 6
o’clock dinner, served in the Art Building;
therefore much of the day was spent social-
ly.
     As a consequence, your correspondent
had to give a little after dinner talk and
found herself on the program to address
the Congress of the American Protective
Society of Authors in the evening. With
no opportunity for preparation you can
imagine the address was not exhaustive,
but it sufficed, and she ought to feel, I sup-
pose, that she has had the greatest honor of
her life.
     Mrs. E. D. E. N. Southworth was to
have been present, also Grace Greenwood,
but both were too ill to come, Emily Haw-
thorne, Kate Brownlee Sherwood and many
others were present and some of the address-
es were very fine, but we took no notes,
as the experience of being before the bat-
tery of so many opera glasses is not quiet-
ing to a novice.
     This morning we attended one of the
most interesting of the Congresses thus far,
to me, that of the Utah women, in the
National Woman’s Relief Society Congress.
Among the speakers were Madame Zina D.
H. Young wife of Brigham Young, or one
of the wives, who as President of the
society, made the opening remarks, although
my friend, Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells widow
of President Daniel H. Wells, who died
three years ago, acted as chairman and in-
troduced the speakers—Mesdames Sarah M.
Kimball, and Jane S. Richards, wives of
Mormons high in the church, and Madame
Isabella Horne, one of the mothers in Zion.
She was one of those who were driven from
Nauvoo that dreadful winter of 1846 and
she told the story of their trials and priva-
tions, as through the ice, snow and rain
they made their weary journey across Iowa,
taking them three and one-half months to
accomplish. A child was born to Mrs.
Horne on the way.
     They found the Omaha Indians friendly
and they allowod them to build themselves
huts and make preparations for their farther

[Column 3]
journeying. They took with them, as they
started on the 14th of June toward Salt
Lake, a year and a half’s grain, also seed
grain. There were five hundred com-
panies, one hundred wagons in each com-
pany, and cattle, etc.
    They passed along meeting with un-
friendly Indians, when women and children 
had to help in their own defense, had
their cooking utensils stolen as they travel-
ed along the Platte river and through the
Black hills; until at last they arrived at
the Promised Land of Salt Lake valley,
the 6th day of October, 1847.
     Here upon a barren waste they pitched
their tents and began house building.
The most favorable winter ever known fol-
lowed, and they were able to plant in
February. They were 1000 miles east and
700 miles west of any supplies. But other
troubles came upon them, famine and
want, snakes crawled out of the ground and
mice by thousands and ate their clothing.
Fortunately one lady had a cat and that
aided them to get rid of the mice. Bugs
covered them coming out of the timber
from which their houses were built, which
it took years to subdue. They had no ir-
rigation and their grain crop was short.
They had no grease to make soap to wash
their clothing, no mills to grind their grain
into flour.  When the grain was nearly
ready for harvest, swarms of crickets came
upon it. Men, women and children turned
out to exterminate them but fortunately
myriads of gulls came in flocks and de-
voured the crickets before the grain was
destroyed. Then they had a grand jubilee,
a harvest home. Her husband gave fifty
cents for four potatoes the size of hickory
nuts. Rations had to be weighed out to
every one. Sugar was one dollar a pound.
To hear Mrs. Horne one could not but
think of the Bible story of the Hebrews
and their deliverance from the Egyptians.
The Mormons are apparently a most re-
ligious people and strict in religious ob-
servances, and what is more their faith in
their religion is marvelous.
     Zina Young Card, daughter of Brigham,
a very bright and comely woman spoke of
the children of Utah and told how they are
taught lessons of patriotism and purity.
     Nellie Little told of their amusements and
referred to the time when they were having
a celebration, singing patriotic songs and
listening to the reading of the Declaration
of Independence, news came to them that
U. S. troops were on the way to quell an
insurrection. The dance is their universal
amusement and the theatre.  They always
invoke the blessings of Deity at the begin-
ning and end of all entertainments. Brig-
ham was a great patron of the theatre, his 
name a monument of the drama.
     Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, a sweet faced
mother in Zion, spoke of the authors and
journalists in Utah, and the grain saving by
women. She said they had known what it 
was to be hungry, to hear their children cry
for bread, and they felt the grain must not
go out of the territory. They have 55,000
bushels stored now and will have more.
Women and children sometimes glean in


the fields for this purpose.   "If ever there
is a famine" she said "come to Zion."
	Dr. Mattie Hughes Cannon, a beautiful,
bright, young woman,  gave a wonderful
address  upon the  "Types  of  women  in
Utah."
	Before the session closed Mrs. Wells call-
led me to the platform and I went and sat
by Brigham Young's wife and took by the
hand each of those women with whom my
sympathy has been so  long, they knowing
(for Mrs.  Wells had  told  them  of me  in
Utah) that  I had  written  a  book  against
their institutions.
	Truly their forbearance and  kindness is
saint-like.   This one meeting was to me
worth coming to Chicago for.
	I hope  you  will  pardon  me  for  being
thus personal in my letter.
	And  now I have  said  nothing  of  the
Dormitory where we are stopping or of the
thousand and one other things that I would
like  to  write  of especially  the  reception
given by Mrs. Potter Palmer this afternoon
at  the  Woman's  building    on   the   Fair
ground,   where  were  present  the  Vice-
President  of  U. S.,  his wife, who  read  a
paper, the Duchess Veragua, direct descend-
ant of Columbus;  foreign delegates of all
nationalities, and all the great women and
some of the men who are  now in Chicago.
	The  Governor  of Illinois  made  a very
fine and powerful  suffrage speech  at  this
banquet,  I think  the  best I ever heard—
from a man.
	But with receptions, speeches and long
walks upon  the  ground,  I  am tired  and
must close.
	In my next  letter I  must speak  of  our
own handsome  Ohio  building   with  its
beautiful Cleveland room, furnished by Mr.
W. A. Otis  of Cleveland,  the decorations
and tapestries the hand work of Cleveland
ladies, and the luxury it is to feel we have
a home on  the  ground  where we   can  go
and rest.    Miss Lucy Stenniff from  Cleve-
land has charge of it  and she is very  well
fitted  for the  place,  being very  pleasant,
and entertaining all visitors delightfully.
                            ETTA L. GILCHRIST.


178                              WOMAN S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY.

(From the Chicago Daily Inter-Ocean
May 20, 1893.)
 
EMELINE B. WELLS ON WOMEN AUTH-
ORS AND JOURNALISTS.

Mme. Emeline B. Wells addressed the
National Woman's Relief Society in hall
No. 7 on the subject: "Western Women
Authors and Journalists" as Follows:

	IN colonizing a new country, especially
one barren and desolate, whither we had
gone without knowing its conditions and
surroundings, gone with only scanty pre-
parations, one would naturally suppose
there would be very little poetry in the
atmosphere or in the hearts of the women,
who had toiled across the burning plains
without murmuring at the hardships, en-
during all the trials and privations incident
to a journey through an unknown country,
making a new pathway where the foot of
white men had not trod for ages untold.
Indeed, one would think there would be as
a natural consequence a barrenness of ideas,
but no! The grand and lofty mountains
with snowy caps, the almost impassible
canyons, the howling coyotes, the profound
and wondrous silence of the great desert,

[Column 2]
the dead inland sea, all these gave the rude
materials to the writer and the poet. Then
when the dear old flag with its stars and
stripes was unfurled, and floated to the
breeze for the first time on Mexican soil
from the lofty pinnacle of Ensign peak,
the heart of the poet-patriot woman burst
into a song that immortalized the glorious
and significant event. It was the inspir-
ation of the Hebraic type of the woman of
the nineteenth century. From that time
the spirit of poesy, crude perchance, com-
pared with the finished songs and hymns of
those whose lives were cast in more pleas-
ant places,yet rich enough in rude imagery,
and true to life in that which touches the
depths of the human soul. And so it was
that woman made more endurable the
times of scarcity and privation, because the
germ of poesy, the divine sympathy with
nature in its wildest, its serenest and most
plaintive moods, found response in the
heart of women, whose prophetic inspira-
tion wove the stirring and pathetic themes
into song and story. The very wildness
and barrenness of the Rocky mountain
region forced from the lips and pen of the
poet the utterances that urged the people on,
and helped them to fulfil the simple duties
of everyday life as martial music inspires
the soldiers on the battlefield. The singers
were unconsciously interpreting the
thoughts of the weary pilgrims who were
opening up a great highway across the
American desert to the 'Golden Gate of the
Pacific sea, those songs many of them pub-
lished in volumes are here now in this great
city for the people who wish to know what
were the thoughts, the feelings and the
motives of these Western mothers, who
have reared a generation in the valleys of
the great basin.
One of the most inspiring themes and one
which no poet of the West has yet fully
interpreted is the wild, weird, solemn-sigh-
ing, sobbing, moaning wind as it sweeps
majestically (though unseen) with its tre-
mendous music and undertone of discordant
notes through the mountain fastnesses and
over the stupendous heights of those lofty
mountains of the Wasatch gorge. (range)
As soon as possible in 1850, two years
after our arrival in the valley, a newspaper
was published, and women contributed to
its columns, both prose and verse, but the
idea seemed to have spontaneous origin that
a woman's paper should be established and
on the first day of June, 1872, the first
copy of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, a semi-
monthly paper, was issued, which opened
a new avenue for women poets and writers
that has developed much talent all through
the twenty-one years of its publication.
This has given a fine opportunity for women
to express their views on  all subjects, and
has made a record of charitable, industrial,
and professional work among women in the
West, and of current matters and events of
importance that has been invaluable in our
woman's work for the Columbian Expo-
sition. A volume containing one copy of
each year's publications may be seen at the
World's Fair.
	Two volumes of poems by Eliza R. Snow
were published at an early date, and later, 
after her travels in the Holy Land, "Cor-
respondence of Palestine Tourists," also
books for children etc., nine volumes in all.
The poems of Sarah E. Carmichael, one
of our Utah girls have been so widely 
celebrated that William Cullen Bryant
selected from her effusions for his edition of

[Column 3]
poets of America. She also published her
poems in book form. Among the women
who have been fortunate enough to bring
out books of prose and verse are Augusta
Joyce Crocheron, born in Boston, but reared
in the West, who issued "Wild Flowers of
Deseret," "Representative women of
Deseret," and one book for children;
Hannah T. King, an English woman, born
in Cambridge, issued three, "Songs of the
Heart," "Seripture Women," and an Epic
Poem; Mary J. Tanner, "Fugitive Poems;"
Emily B. Spencer, from Connecticut, two
volumes of poems, and several others, of
which time fails one to tell. In 1889 a
magazine was established for young women,
edited by Susa Young Gates under the
auspices of the Young Ladies' Associations.
This also, in bound volumes, may be found
on exhibition in the Utah building at The
Fair grounds.
	I have only told you of a few things that 
have been done by Western women in
journalism and authorship. I could tell
you much more had I time, but it remains
for the future to reveal the magnificent
possibilities of song and story of the drama
and romance from the gifted pens of the
daughters of the valleys of the Rocky
mountain fastnesses which lie by the inland
sea.


MRS. CHARLOTTE EMERSON BROWN,
President  of  the  General   Federation  of
Women's Clubs,   was born  in  Andover,
Mass.,  in  1838.   She is the daughter of
Prof. Ralph Emerson, who was for twenty-
five years professor of ecclesiastical history
in the Andover Theological Seminary.   As
Miss Emerson manifested a decided  taste
for  the study  of  languages  in  her  early
youth, every possible advantage was given
her for  cultivation  in  this  direction,  and
after  years of study at home and in Ger-
many, Austria, France, Italy, Greece, Tur-
key, Egypt and Syria she became a teacher
of languages in a seminary at Rockford, Ill.
In 1879 Miss  Emerson married  Rev.  Wm.
B. Brown, D.  D., then  of  New York City,
and after a couple of years spent in Europe
returned  with  her  husband  to settle per-
manently  in  East  Orange,  N.  J.,  where
Mrs. Brown was soon elected president of
the Orange Woman's Clubs.    Mrs. Brown
entered heartily into the plan originated by
Mrs.  May  Wright Sewall of  Indianapolis
for  a  general federation  of  the woman’s
clubs  of the   United  States,  and  at  the
organization  convention was elected to the
presidency of the  new federation.    Fifty
clubs entered into the Federation  at  this
convention, and within two years over one
hundred  and  twenty   have been enrolled,
the number still increasing, until  it  now
promises to embrace every woman’s club of
importance in the country.    Mrs. Brown’s
mental ability and enthusiasm  in the work
render her a valuable assistant in the ranks
of those who labor for the increase of sym-
pathy  and improvement in   organization
amongst womankind, her many sidedness
peculiarly fitting her for such service. She
might say, after the style of  St. Paul, unto
the literary women I became literary that I
might gain the "literati;"  to them  that  are
in suffrage work as a suffragist that I might
gain them who are suffragists; to them who
are without politics,  as withont  politics
(being not without interest in public works,
but under a different name)  that I  might
gain them that are without politics.    I am
made all things to  all women that I might
by all means win some.              ELITE.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


TO MY SISTER.

Like a bird that is reared in a cozy wee nest
	And forsakes it to build another—
You are leaving dear parents, the kindest and
		best,
	You are leaving fond sisters and brother,
You are leaving the home of your childhood so
		dear 
With a trust in your heart that dispels every fear;
For has not the man who will make you his wife
Often vowed that he’d love and protect you
		through life?

For this vow and this love you are leaving your
		home,
	As the bird flits away to its bower,
To the nest where it fancies no sorrow can come
	To intrude on its joy for an hour;
You will go to a home which your love will pre-
		pare—
All his trials and burdens of life you will share
All his joys will be yours—all his hopes swell
		your heart,
All his soul’s disappointments of yours be a
		part.
Should the home he may give you be palace or
		cot,
	It is yours to convert to a heaven,
You can make it the happiest, pleasantest spot
	That to mortal on earth has been given,
Can make it a refuge from sorrow and care,
Can make it a safeguard from every snare—
You can make that same home the reverse, if you
		will,
A place for disputes, harshness, hate and all ill.

When the husband is honest, the helpmeet is true,
	As are you and the man you are wedding,
It is likely you both will in safety get through
	The rough thorny pathway we’re treading,
For beauty and pleasure are everwhere found,
When love at the fireside doth richly abound;
And labors are lightened, and sorrow and dread
Lose much of their sting from kind words that
		are said.
You are now going home—to your own home,
		you see, 
While the home of your mother you’re leaving;
	And there isn’t a doubt that your mind, young
		and free,
Bright dreams of the future is weaving,
May each happy vision presented to view, 
Be but a forerunner of that which is true;
And may all that on earth you are called to
		endure
Make your home up in heaven, just doubly
		secure.
							ALOFA.


UTAH WOMEN IN CHICAGO.

	WHAT the Chicago Daily Tribune of
May 20th, 1893, said of the Department
Meeting of the Utah Women held in the
Art Palace in connection with the World's
Congress of Representative Women.
—Editor. 

		TELL OF THEIR WESTERN LIFE.

	Early Women Settlers of Utah Meet and
		Relate Their Experience.
	WOMEN who, in the pioneer days, crossed
the barren plains and after trials, hardships,
and adventures reached America's Dead
Sea—the Great Salt Lake—were an impor-
tant factor yesterday in the Women's Con-
gress. They were all Utah women; they had
been Mormons, and in pathetic tones and re-
fined language related their experience of
early days in that remarkable territory, which

[column 2]
was then populated only by the disciples of
Brigham Young. Probably the most dis-
tinguished woman of the venerable party,
was Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, one of the
surviving widows of the leader of the
Mormons. To an immense gathering of
women she delivered a brief address in re-
gard to Utah and the women of the ter-
ritory. 
	The department congress of the National
Woman's Relief Society was held in hall
No. 7. The society's officers are Utah wo-
men. Its President is Mrs. Young; First 
Vice-President, Mrs. Jane S. Richards;
Second Vice-President, Mrs. Bathsheba W.
Smith; Third Vice-President, Mrs. Sarah
M. Kimball; Secretary, Mrs. Emmeline B.
Wells; Treasurer, Mrs. Mary Isabella
Horne. "Pioneer Women of Utah,"
covering the period of 1847-’48, was a
subject talked on by Mrs. Horne. She
talked of adventures and hardships in
reaching Utah in the early days by ox
teams, and told of the people's religion and
their relief work.
	Following her Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells
made a talk on “Western Women, Authors
and Journalists.’’ Considering the popula-
tion of the territory, the speaker said Utah
had more literary and musically inclined
women than any of the older settled States.
Brigham Young first encouraged women to
write for the Deseret News, a newspaper es-
tablished by the church 1850. The old
Mormon leader also founded a theatre, which
is still the leading play-house of Salt Lake
City, in order that women might improve
themselves in dramatic art. For years a
local stock company played in the house.
The speaker further referred to books that
have been written by both the women who
went to Utah and those who are natives of
the Territory.
	This was in line with a paper, "Amuse-
ments of the Early Days," read by Mrs.
Nellie Little of Salt Lake City. There
was no dearth of amusements, she con-
cluded, from the diversity of social enter-
tainments then extant. In substance she
said:
	Prior to 1870 Utah was an isolated region, des-
titute of railroads, and with but meagre means
of communication with other States and Terri-
tories. These conditions forced its people to
rely upon their own inventive genius for pleasure.
The mammoth celebrations and picnics of early
days are memorable occasions, and for unique
display and profuse decoration have never since
been eclipsed. The first of these was given in
1849 in the Old Bowery. Soul-inspiring music,
patriotic speeches,followed by a delightful repast,
were some of the agreeable features of the oc-
casion.
	The numerous attractions of the Wasatch lure
the occupants of the city to its delightful retreats.
The custom of camping out has become so uni-
versal, that the cities and towns during the sum-
mer months resemble Goldsmith’s "Deserted
Village."
	The drama has had a potent influence on so-
ciety. Its beneficial effect, in a literary sense, is
inestimable, The early Utonian drama is of
historical importance, as it characterizes the so-
cial condition of the people at that time. From
1860 to 1870 the Deseret Dramatic Association
had its triumphal reign. This decade is distin-
guished for its literary and artistic activity.
		DR CANNON’S ADDRESS.
	Another eminent woman, Dr. Martha
Hughes Cannon of Salt Lake City, de-
livered an address on “Types of Utah Wo-
men.” The presiding officer stated that
Mrs. Cannon was between the age of 16
and 21, when a printer on the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT. With her earnings at the
case she educated herself. Mrs. Cannon
said in part:
	The delegation from Utah represents two class-


ATTAINMENTS OF WESTERN WOMEN.

	Young Ladies' National Improvement
Association Holds Its First Session.

	The department congress of the Young
Ladies' National Mutual Improvement As-
sociation held its first session last night in
Hall No. 7. The proceedings of the session
were interspersed with music by a woman's
quartet composed of Mrs. May Talmage,
Miss Mary Romney, Mrs. Minnie J. Snow,
and Miss May Preston. After a few pre-
liminary remarks by the President, Elmina
S. Taylor, an address on "Literature and 
Art" was delivered by Mrs. May Talmage
of Salt Lake City. She said most of the
noted writers of Utah were self-educated,
but had become famous in literature. The
young women had received their musical
training in the Territory, but many of them
were vocalists who could no longer be
classed as amateurs. They had gained
reputations which were indeed enviable.
In painting, designing, and the like they
compared favorably with the women of 
the East, and were real artists. The ideas
and sentiments of those Western girls, the
speaker said, were lofty and noble, and the
young women were encouraged to their
best efforts.
	The addresses were as follows:
	"The Ultimatum of Human Life," by Miss
Laura Hyde; 'Legal and Political Status of Utah
Women" by Mrs. Emily S. Richards; " Mother-
hood," by Mrs. Martha H. Tingey; "Our Girls,"
by Mrs. Minnie J Snow; Education of Women,"
by Miss Julia Farnsworth.


CHARRES EGBERT CRADDOCK .(Miss
Murfree) has completed a new novel, en-
titled "His Vanished Star."
	MR. EUGENE FIELD has been formally
dubbed Master of Arts. To his heirs and
posterity the sealed document may be of
value, but to his contemporaries Mr. Field
has long been known as Past Grand Mas-
ter of many arts. He can weave stories
like cloth of gold, and he can play upon
the pipes of Pan, but best of all his gifts is
the largess he bestows upon his friends
from out his masterful heart. 		ELITE.


180			WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia),	- 	Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
				SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
[-]econd class matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,  - - - JUNE 15, 1893.


[Column 1]
NOTED WOMEN AT THE CONGRESS.

	At the World's Congress of Women held
in Chicago in May there were quite a large
number of vey celebrated women repre-
senting great organizations and others who
had attained such national and international
distinction as to stand alone and indepen-
dent conspicuous only for the achieve-
ments made in science, art, theology or
some other equally noble and important
work.
	Perhaps the one who deserves first men-
tion because of her position as President of
the Board of Lady Managers of the Colum-
bian Exposition, and also President of the
World's Congress Auxiliary, is Mrs. Bertha
Honore Palmer. This lady's duties are very
arduous and require a great amount of
executive ability of which she seems to 
have an inexhaustible supply. She is
beautiful in face and figure and possesses
a charming expression that adds greatly to
her personality, but in addition to her
innumerable graces of face, form, figure
and expression, she possesses that wonder-
ful tact which has been said to be more
than talent, it wins its way at all times and
is never at a loss under any circumstances.
The many duties and obligations that de-
volve upon Mrs. Palmer are all carried
with the most consummate grace and she
never appears over-burdened. She must
be wonderfully gifted by nature not to be
spoiled with flattery or attentions, or grow
haughty and repellant because of the great
importance of her unique position as the
head and front of women's affairs in the
Exposition.
	Mrs. Palmer made the first speech of
welcome to the Woman's Congress after
Mr. Bonney had given the formal address.
Professor David Swing delivered the invo-
cation. The first woman's voice heard on
this momentous occasion was that of Mrs. 
Palmer, clear, distinct in tone, and simple,
forcible and expressive in language.
	Mrs. Ellen M. Henrotin Vice-President
of the Woman's Branch of the World's 
Congress Auxiliary, followed Mrs. Palmer
explaining the congresses and adding con-
gratulations and welcome. Mrs. Henrotin
is a very gracious and charming person,
born in Maine we were told, but educated
mostly abroad; seems to be a great favorite
in Chicago, and is certainly a very efficient
and competent person in the position she
occupies; where very much of the impor-
tant work of the Congresses especially in de-
tail must necessarily devolve upon her.
She has a pleasant address and is excep-

[Column 2]
tionally well calculated for the place she so
ably fills.
	Mrs. May Wright Sewall as chairman of
the Women's Congress of Representative
Women came next upon the platform.
Mrs. Sewall is better known to the people
here than either of the others because of her
connection with the Suffrage work in time 
past and being the President of the National
Council of Women of the United States.
We will only say here that she is one of 
the foremost women of the country. As
Chairman of this great Congress, she has
won new laurels of fame, and acquitted
herself so well in all places and at all
times as to give universal satisfaction, to
all parties interested; and this was no easy
task, 'but required the utmost tact, in-
genuity and diplomatic skill, and in each of
these exceptional qualifications Mrs. Sewall
excels as exemplified in her signal success at
the Congress. Mrs. Sewall is a woman of
fine proportions, somewhat majestic in
figure though not tall, a very striking face
and the most beautiful soft gray hair that
gracefully becomes her queenly style of
beauty. Mrs. Sewall's speeches are all
classical in style and she has much of the
dignity and finish of the European society
Woman.
	At her right hand and always on hand, 
was Mrs. Rachel Foster Avery the efficient
and thorough good Secretary of the National
Council. Her services in the Congress
were invaluable. She was it appeared every
where present, waiting and watching and
acting promptly, her work beforehand was
almost Herculean in matters pertaining to
the holding of the Congress, the invitations,
notifications, documents and arrangements
general and final. She has a wonderfully 
active brain and fine ability for executing
the work given her to do, or planning and
classifying. She is a slight figure has a
very intelligent face and particularly fine
eyes, though they are generally covered
with glasses. Mrs. Avery is quite mother-
ly though young. She is a sort of model
mother, one never forgets with all her pub-
lic work that she is the central figure in the
home as well, she carries the impression as
indelibly engraved upon her style and man-
ner as though it were written in her fore-
head.
	In the long list of illustrious names it
is hard to choose who shall follow next in 
order, there are many foreign as well as
American women whose deeds are worthy
of record in all lands, but to an American-
born woman the names of those whose feet
have trod rough places that those who came
after might enjoy the harvest of their plant
ing,are always first in our thoughts. Several
of these pioneers were present and their
faces were beautiful with age and ex-
perience, our readers are familiar with the
names and history of Susan B. Anthony,
Lucy Stone, Julia Ward Howe, Mary A.
Livermore, Caroline M. Severance, Isa-
bella Beecher Hooker and others well
known to fame. Elizabeth Cady Stanton
though expected did not come, but sent 
her paper which was read by Miss Anthony,
her life-long comrade. Mrs. Stanton was 
ably represented by her son Theodore Stan-
ton a fine specimen of manhood, who has
lived several years in Paris and has the
French maniere perfect. When we were
introduced to him Miss Anthony added,
"when I first knew his mother, Theodore
was the baby—now his hair is gray." He
read a fine paper in the Press Congress, of

[Column 3]
which he was a delegate from across the
waters.
	Coming to foreign women of celebrity,
perhaps Countess Aberdeen ranks first—
Lady Isabel Somerset who might share
this honor was not present. Lady Aber-
deen is a veritable Scotch woman, daughter 
of the First Lord Tweedmouth, born in the
Highlands, married when twenty, to John
Campbell, seventh Earl of Aberdeen.
Lady Aberdeen is an enthusiastic leader in
women's associations, she has organized
several, and is President of a number; dur-
ing the Woman's Congress she was elected
President of the International Council of
Women, which represents the organizations
of women of all lands; Lady Aberdeen is
a very magnetic public speaker, fluent and
comprehensive. One of the associations
organized by her called first "Hadda House
Association" outgrew its local limits and 
because of its wonderful national success
gained the significant name, "Onward and
Upward Association." It has a member-
ship of over nine thousand and publishes a
monthly magazine, Onward and Upward,
personally edited by the Countess of Aber-
deen herself. In addition to the public 
career of this famous woman she is said to 
have a delightful home life, four children
three boys and one girl; and a baby
daughter, Dorothy, having passed away
has caused the mother to more fully con-
secrate her life to philanthropic work. Her
husband and herself are conjointly interest-
ed in all philanthropic and progressive
movements. Madame Isabel Bogelot is a 
celebrated French woman widely known
for her able efforts in behalf of the op-
pressed women of her own dear France.
Madame Bogelot's address at the Congress
was a very able paper on the "Solidarity
of Human Interests." She is commissioner
for the woman section of the French ex-
hibition at the World's Fair under Madame
Carnot. She represented the National
Federation of the women of France at
the World's Congress. She is Vice-Presi-
dent of the Congress of Woman's Work
and Institutions of Paris.
	Madame Bogelot is intensely French in
manner and in sympathy, an indefatigable
worker full of love and helpfulness for the
unfortunate, which her countenance be-
speaks.
	Mrs. Laura Ormiston Chant of England
was one of the favorite speakers and is a 
very graceful and charming person.
Her gift of language is extraordinary, and
she speaks on any and all subjects with
great brilliancy. Mrs. Chant expects to
come West before long and hopes to visit
our City. She is one of the foremost work-
ers among women's organizations in Great
Britain and has been several times in
America. Mrs. Florence Fenwick Miller
is another captivating English woman.
Her style is decidedly lofty and she is a 
very handsome woman of the peculiarly
English type, with that beautiful pink and
white complexion no other climate seems 
to give.
	Mrs. Fenwick Miller gave a very inter-
esting paper in the Press Congress entitled
"Comradeship between Men and Women."
	Mrs. Ebba Nordqvist nee Baronesse
Alfthon of Finland was a very interesting
and bright young woman, her husband had
accompanied her to attend the Congress.
She informed us in conversation with her
that she had published a book which she
promised to send us. This young woman
was a Delegate from the "Unionen."


Among the brightest and most graceful
of the foreign women was one from Athens,
Greece, Callirhoe Parren, whose husband al-
so came with her.  These women from
abroad were most courteously received and
entertained everywhere.  One very popular 
indeed in the United States and a great
favorite here, Helena Modjeska a woman of
remarkable presence and very great force in
presenting her subject, spoke there upon
"The Endowed Theatre."
	There are many noble names among those
from foreign countries, titled people and
grand women they were, some of them
spoke English a little, others had to have an
interpreter.
	In our next we will tell our readers of
the beautiful Syrian woman from Arabia in
native costume, and of Josefa Humpal-
Zeman of Bohemia and of those noted wo-
men of Germany and Switzerland and of
different parts of Scandinavia.
	A sweet young woman who specially in-
terested the writer and for whom we form-
ed a very strong attachement was Miss
Margaret Windeyer of Australia, of which
we will tell you something in our next
issue of the paper as this article is already
very long and we must not overdo our pen
pictures of heroic women.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The Relief Society Conference of this
Stake of Zion will be held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall in this City on Friday June
30th, meetings commencing at 10 a. m.
and at 2 p. m. It is desirable that there
should be representatives from all the
branches in the county as there will be
interesting matters presented and important
business to be transacted. There certainly
should be a large attendance at this delight-
ful season of the year. Mrs. M. Isabella
Horne who has been absent at the World’s
Fair in Chicago and also visited New York
City, will have many pleasant things to
speak of, that will be of special interest.
	OUR sisters and the women of Utah
generally do not realize and appreciate the
value and importance of the EXPONENT or
they would certainly make a greater effort
to sustain it, even though times are hard
and there is a depression in silver. To
have a paper in which you can set forth
your own views and make a record of your
own work as a society or as individuals, to
have it engraven in a way that it can be
handed down to posterity and live after
those have passed away, who are partici-
pants therein is worthy of some sacrifice
even if that were necessary. The great
benefit the EXPONENT has been in various
ways is inestimable, and now that a new
volume is to begin, those who have the best
interests of this people, and of the organiz-
ations at heart should renew their diligence
to keep up the subscriptions and add there-
to.
	WE PUBLISH in this issue notices of the
meetings of our Associations held in
Chicago from the leading daily papers of
that city, that our readers may know what
some of the comments were. In July 1st
we shall give a more extended notice of the
meetings, and we wish the sisters to com-
prehend the fact that though it may seem
a small affair in itself, yet it will go into the
history of the great Congress, and be on
record and circulated all over the world.
It was an unprecedented opportunity and

[Column 2]
there never was before in the history of the
world such a gathering of women, as the
World’s Congress of Representative
Women assembled on that wonderful oc-
casion. That it presages advancement for
all women in the future who can doubt that
has watched the signs of the times in
the nineteenth century?

	THE MEETINGS of the National Wo-
man’s Relief Society and of the Young
Ladies’ National M. I. A. held in the Art
Institute in Chicago were well attended and
as satisfactory and successful as the most
sanguine could have anticipated, consider-
ing the number of meetings held in the
building on the same day, and the two con-
gresses proper, that were held every morn-
ing and evening. It would be impossible
to give a description of the Woman’s Con-
gress, to one who had not seen for herself,
and even those who were there could not
see or hear all, try as they might; the great
difficulty being where to go to hear the
most and the best, when twenty and thirty
meetings were going on at the same time,
and many of them being addressed by dis-
tinguished speakers. No other Congress is
likely to be so complicated or so fascinating
as this first one was for various reasons,
though these Congresses of thought, ideas
and opinions will continue the entire six
months.
	THE Book of Poems mentioned in a
former issue of our paper has been finished
and three copies forwarded to Chicago. It
is something to be proud of and every wo-
man in Utah should have a laudable pride
in the work. It is very handsome and
those who have seen it in the Woman’s
Building, are gratified to place it on ex-
hibition; Mrs. Margaret Blaine Salisbury to
whom the book is dedicated is delighted
with its beautiful appearance. The decor-
ating is in the native flowers and each one
is suited to the poem as nearly as possible.
The INVOCATION by Eliza R. Snow with
which the volume opens is illustrated with
Columbines. The poem DESERET by
Augusta Joyce Crocheron ‘the valley’s soli-
tude’ ‘At Evening’ Emmeline B. Wells,
Evening Primroses, Heard in the Storm,
M. A. Y. Greenhalgh ‘A shower of song
swept by,’ ‘Western Wilds,’ Emily Hill
Woodmansee Wild Poppies, ‘The Stolen
Sunbeam,’ Sarah E. Carmichael, Golden
Rod, Memorial Day, Hannah T. King
‘in pendages of woe’ ‘Isabella of Castile,’
Ellen B. Ferguson, ‘Columbianum, The
Sego Lily, Lula Greene Richards, Sego
Lilies, Violets,, Rhoda Celestia Nash,
‘Violets, The National Emblem, Painted
Cup, Yarrow and Blue-bell, My Heart,’
Esther A. Bennion; ‘Wild Geraniums,
Hope,’ Sarah E. Russell ‘There are
shady nooks, My Castle in the Air,’ Mell
C.Woods; ‘the structure into beauty
grew,’ Cactus Blossoms,’Julia A. Mcdon-
ald, ‘Cactus, A Fragment,’ Mary J. Tan-
ner; ‘Ivy, Longing, Josephine Spencer,
Wild Roses,‘My Mother’s Flowers,’ Reba
Beebe Pratt; ‘Sweet Peas,’ ‘Truth,’ Hannah
Cornaby; ‘Zuchnaria,’ ‘Memorial Hymn,’
Rebecca Palfrey Utter; ‘Forget-Me-Nots,
The River,' Lucinda W. Dalton,‘its banks and
its glades,’ ‘Fragments,’E. B. Wells,Sarah
E. Carmichael, Hannah T. King, Eliza
R. Snow, Josephine Spencer; ‘the giant
hills, Butter Cups, the busy knell, Fan-
cy’s Greeting,’ Annie D. Stevens, ‘Wild
Clover,' ‘Resignation,’ Belle M. Jonhson,
‘the mountain’s rugged brow,’ The
Mother Pioneer,’ Ellen Jakeman; ‘Sun

[Column 3]
flowers,’ ‘Ballad of Lilies,’ Genevieve
Lucile Brown; ‘Lilies,’ Sonnets on the
Virgin Mary,’ Ruby Lamont; ‘Wild
Marguerites,’‘Christmas Night,’ E. R.
Shipp; ‘Wild Grape,’ The Message of the
Pines,’ Mary Grant Major; ‘Pines and
Lilacs,’ ‘An Unanswered Query,’ Aretta
Young; ‘Baby Blue Eyes,’ ‘Life in Death,’
Nevada V. Davis; ‘Everlasting, The
Spirit of Sleep,’ Julia Bowring Maltese;
‘Poppies, A Twilight Reverie,’ Queenie
Furguson; Dog-tooth Violets, Utah, Ruth
M. Fox, Astragalus Utahensis.


IN RURAL ENGLAND.
				XXXI.

	IT was some weeks after the conversation
between Mrs. Bland and Lady Anna Wal-
ton, before anything positive was heard
upon the subject from Lady Walton in
Italy, and when she did write, she treated
the whole matter as a joke. Meanwhile
Lady Anna had done her very best by
persuasion and entreaty to induce Maitland
to go into a new country, and had made up
her own mind that America was the land
where she would be most at ease, and be-
sides Uncle Rob had written in such glow-
ing terms of the new colonies, and it was
more than probable he would take up his
permanent abode there. Dr. Bland too had
decided to give up the practice of his pro-
fession and enjoy himself in some country
retreat remote from where his former
patients lived, otherwise he could scarcely
follow his inclinations, as among them he
was simply a necessity; to him they attribu-
ted perfect knowledge of the science, and
he was such a favorite too with high and
low, that he could not have refused to go
in cases of emergency. Everything seemed
favorable to the removal, many were leav-
ing England either temporarily or forever,
some on fortunes bent and some for business
purposes, others were sent by authority of
the government to occupy important posi-
tions, but none of these various objects
stimulated either Lady Anna or her cousin.
it was entirely different with them; strange
too, for life to Lady Anna, especially had she
been like most young women was full of all
that was charming and desirable. But
Anna was not like other women any more
than her cousin Jane, both were peculiar
and distinct types, and such mothers stamp
indelibly upon their children after them,
the strong, characteristic tendencies which
constitute striking individuality.
	Something more is expected of the off-
spring of such women, and throughout the
wide, wide world, men who have attained
celebrity attribute the greatness of their
achievements to the mother—and often it
can be directly traced to that source, and
when the mother is known, she is usually
a significant type.
	In a new country too the conditions and
surroundings are such that new develop-
ments are made in character and very often
great improvement in physique.
	The new world was much talked of and
always favorably, and the feeling with
Lady Anna strengthened to such a degree
that she could not refrain from preparations,
though nothing positive was settled.
	Dr. Bland, was taken very ill and his wife
became seriously alarmed, she sent for her
cousin Anna and told her it would be use-
less to think of going to America, for the
Doctor could never endure the sea voyage—


that he must have perfect rest and quiet
both of body and mind. Lady Anna was
very devoted to her former guardian and
relied much upon his judgment in all
matters, as well as those relating to the
profession, and she felt it would be hard
for her to go anywhere without his advice
and encouragement; it seemed to almost
overcome her, for the first few days in the 
cottage, whither she hastened at the call of
cousin Jan, she was prostrated with a
nervous weakness brought on by giving
way to the disappointment she felt, when
her cousin decided they must all remain in
England. Maitland had been passive in
regard to going, and things seemed to tend
in that direction.
	Lady Anna cared very little for Walton
Hall she had never enjoyed being there, it
was a grand place, but not at all to her
liking; Hilliard Castle was much more to
her taste and as for the Walton’s friends
and visitors, she had no sympathy what-
ever with their pursuits or inclinations.
She had always shrank more or less from
society of which Lady Walton was one of
the chief attractions, and longed for the
restfulness and solitude of the wild and
unfrequented places near the old castle
where she was born and reared.
	Lord Walton’s only sister was an em-
imently popular society woman and had
prided herself on Anna’s peculiar style of
beauty and originality, and fancied she
could create a sensation by taking her under
her wing so to speak, and visiting some of 
the fashionable watering places when the
season was at its height. Finding herself
unsuccessful with her niece she endeavored
to gain her point with Maitland and meeting
him one morning alone in the breakfast
room while visiting at the Hall determined
to try her skill and accosted him with the
remark, “Don’t you think my boy that
your wife is awfully dull shut up in this
lonesome house, from morning till night,
and you always away at races, or sporting
exercises, hunting or fishing, not a com-
panion to speak to, or friend to confide in,
she has no relative you know, and I should
so like to take her out with me by your
permission? It is the gay season now at
watering places, and she is very beautiful
would be as great a belle I am sure as your
mother was in her palmiest days.”
	“My wife Aunt, is very diffident, and you
could not persuade her to leave our boy;
however, if she would give up the thought
of leaving England, or the seaside would
take her attention, it would be new, and
she has never been to the seashore; you may
try Aunt Kate; her father never took her
anywhere, but let her roam over the old
Hilliard estate, woods and grounds, and
now, if it was free from other incumbrance,
I do believe she would prefer to live
there.”
	Aunt Kate was delighted to think Mait-
land was so easily won over to her side and
determined to conquer all Anna's scruples,
and have a gay summer of it. How little
she knew the sort of material with which
she had to deal. Lovely in disposition as
Lady Anna seemed she had also an obsti-
nate side like her father when she chose to
show it, and she had fully made up her
mind to go, and to take Maitland and baby
away from the people and amusements that
had so completely absorbed him since their
marriage; she considered it her sacred duty,
she had expected devotion from him, and
coldness and neglect had been the result;
she would try some more effectual means
than lavishing affection upon him.
	It was not long until Kate Walton (a
spinster of uncertain age) found a fitting
opportunity to try her powers of persuasion
upon her nephew’s wife, she was out
gathering flowers for the table, a habit she
had, her amusements were not many, and
she loved the flowers, she was like a fragile
lily herself in her white morning gown,
and as Aunt Kate came near she compli-
mented her beauty, but added, you are as
delicate as the most sensitive flower, you
need change of air, and scene, come with
me to the seashore, leave off brooding over
things you cannot help—you will soon
bring the roses back you have lost since
baby came.”
	“Aunt Kate she answered almost sharply
I am going away, to have a decided change,
to another country America, the new world
and everything will be be changed then, it
must be, I cannot endure the pain I am
bearing now; life is wearisome.” Lady
Anna was not prepared for Aunt Kate’s re-
ply but her ready wit came to her aid; when
she stopped as abruptly as she began;
Miss Walton replied, “You have no right
Anna to bury yourself in a wilderness to
gratify a caprice and especially to take with
you the heir of Walton Hall and bring him
up like a commoner; his father owes it to
England that he should be raised and
educated a nobleman, if you have no pride
of birth and have power to ever-persuade
Maitland we will see what influence can be
brought to hear to hinder this outrage upon
good breeding.”
	Lady Anna was amazed, it was some-
thing unlooked for, it had never entered her
mind that such obstacles could be interpo-
sed, she replied calmly for she saw how
excited Miss Walton had become while
talking. “Maitland made no such objec-
tion, he must know if it would be a
wrong to England; but begging your par-
don, are there not people going of title and
of fortune, that are of as much consequence
as the Waltons? however, in a matter in-
volving such grave question I certainly do
not hold myself an oracle, and therefore we
need not waste words in an angry dispute,
Maitland is in the house I believe, but
Aunt Kate rest assured I shall not go to a
fashionable watering place even if preven-
ted from going to a new land.”
	At breakfast Aunt Kate introduced the
subject bringing up the most serious argu-
ments—Maitland treated it all with the ut-
most nonchalance. Anna remained
thoughtful and only answered when ad-
dressed, but one could see from the intense
curl of her lips that she was not convinced,
and would ultimately have her own way;
she was shrewd enough to wait in silence
for the advantage.
	Off went Maitland to London and away
drove Lady Anna, nurse and baby to the old
castle she loved so well, leaving Miss Wal-
ton to her own reflections for the day. It
was royal weather and mother and baby enjoy-
ed the ride over the country road; it was the
first visit of young Edward to the home of
his mother, and though Lady Anna had not
much sentiment of this sort naturally, it
seemed to be developing in consequence of
her life experience. The old lodge keeper
fairly danced with delight when he saw the
elegant equipage of the Walton’s drive into
the shady lane, and for a few minutes all
was hilarity and excitement. Baby Ed-
ward was a boy to be proud of and his
name was sufficient to make these old re-
tainers almost worship him, for there is
something in the English blood, that warms
at the mention of its titled nobility. (even
though they may prove unworthy of the
honor.) Comments and remarks upon the
child’s looks and general appearance were
profuse and exceedingly complimentary,
but the summing up of it all was that he
was a real Hilliard and very like his
maternal grand father whose name he bore.
The Hilliard servants had no love for the
Waltons’ tho’ out of respect to Lady Anna
they never gossipped when she was by,
but the moment she was safe, in the draw-
ing room with her own party, they ex-
pressed their regrets in vehement terms
that ever a Hilliard should mix: with the
Walton’s whom Sir Edward so detested,
and had never forgiven, and the old, old
story was repeated and reiterated and the
participants strongly abused until the coach-
man coming in upon them chancing to
catch his master’s name inquired in bom-
bastic fashion whether “anybody there had
any word to say agin the Walton’s of
Walton Hall,” if so he was ready to show
who was the best man, and the conversation
was thus brought to a stand still, and the
question was asked of the new-comer how
long his mistress was likely to stay. “No-
body knows what she’s likely to do at any
time, she has it all her own way.”
	“Do you mean to insinuate,” said one of
the men, “that she is’nt an obedient wife?”
"O,about that’’ resumed the coachman, my
master lets her do just as she likes, she
pines and frets a great deal and he don’t
like a woman who weeps and is over sensi-
tive, he wants to be at races and hunts and
can’t have a woman watchin’ and follow-
n’ him, but she’s a queer one, can’t bear
society, he likes jolly women, Sir Edward’s
style you know,” that last remark saved
him, for remembering the idiosynracies of
their former master, and considering there
must be some arrangement made for Lady
Anna and her party, a messenger was sent
to ask what were her orders for the day..
The answer came, only some simple re-
freshments under the trees where she had
often sat in the days gone by, and that she
had already apprised her cousin Mrs. Bland
of her visit to the castle and was momen-
tarily expecting her. Mrs. Bland came and
baby too and the two ladies talked over
the present and speculated upon the future.
Lady Anna told her cousin oi the objections
raised by the Walton aunt, and cousin Jane
promised to lay the matter before the
Doctor and see how any difficulty could be
averted. Dr. Bland’s health, was slowly 
improving.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


U. W. P. CLUB.

	A MEETING of the U. W. P. C. was held
at the office of Dr. Ellis R. Shipp,
May 31st, 1893. Phebe C. Young first
Vice President in the chair. Prayer by
Ella W. Hyde, roll called, showing a small-
er attendance than usual, attributable to
the departure of so many for the World’s
Fair in Chicago.
	A communication from the “Utah Feder-
ation of Clubs,” was read by the Secretary,
as was also the constitution of that club.
	Dr. E. R. Shipp, having recently return-
ed from Ann Arbor University, was invited
to give the club a verbal sketch of her ex-
perience while away. In compliance the
doctor spoke of the studies she had been


pursuing and of the great pleasure she had
experienced in studying the works of some
of the great authors, Shakespeare, Tenny-
son and others. She had learned to more
fully appreciate the great merit of these
writers. Spoke of the intellectual
atmosphere which surrounds one in Ann
Arbor. So free from vanity and the love of 
dress, observable in many other places.
The sociability and friendliness of the
people generally, no drunkenness to be seen,
and perfect safety in going out at any time
of the night, the comfortable convenient
homes, etc.
	Ruth M. Fox recited an original poem.
Little Ellis Shipp favored the club with a
recitation entitled “The Prarie Fire.”
Lydia D. Alder spoke a few words of her
pleasure in attending the club meetings
though she was not able to do what she
would like to do, on account of her delicate 
health.
	Doctor Shipp read an original poem ad-
dressed to Ruth M. Fox.
	Several of the members were in turn re- 
minded of interesting anecdotes told by, or 
of, some of the noted writers and speakers.
Lizzie S. Wilcox, by request, read a selec-
tion from the writings of Ella Wheeler
Wilcox. 
	After a social chat upon various interest- 
ing subjects pertaining to woman’s
organizations, and club work particularly,
the meeting was adjourned for one month.
	The program not having been carried
out as pre-arranged, was to be carried over
for the June meeting.
		GLADYS WOODMANSEE Rec. Secy.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
PAYSON.
	THE Annual meeting of the two
branches of the Relief Society of Payson
met today in the meeting house; after the
opening exercises, President M. A. Hardy
of the 1st ward, stated that this was a
special meeting, to commemorate the
organization of the Relief Society in Payson;
and to present a small tribute of respect to
the retired officers of the old organization.
	The secretary of each ward read a
statistical and financial report of the respective
society represented. A very interesting
programme was presented, consisting of
singing, speeches from the brethren and
sisters, and reading of poetical selections,
composed for the occasion, by Charles
Brewerton and Almeda Snyder.
	The following resolutions of respect were
read by President Colvin.
	In presenting this testimonial of respect
to the late presidency, of the Relief Society
of Payson, we desire it should be under-
stood, that we do this to express our good-
will; that we realize that a great deal of
good to the community, has resulted from
their labors, in connection with the sisters
of the Relief Society; and the blessings of
the Lord attendant on their labors, in
connection with the members of the Relief
Society and the blessings of the Lord at-
tendant on their labors.
	We realize that they have done a great
deal of good, filled their positions with
credit to themselves, to the community, and
to the church of which they form an honor-
able part.
	This expression of good will, we hope
will be acceptable to and kindly received by

[Column 2]
them, it is the desire of the sisters who have
prepared this memorial.

Committee.
ELIZABETH D. LANT,
ISABELLA FINLAYSON,
JANNETT TANNER,
ELLEN SENIOR,
JOSEPHINE PETERSON.
	After the meeting adjourned, the retired
officers and present incumbents, together
with the bishopric and a few invited friends
repaired to the home of Sister Jannett
Tanner, and there did ample justice to an
elegant repast, after which a very pleasant,
social time was spent. All present voting
it a perfect success.
	The only thing to mar the pleasure, was
the severe illness of Sister Lant, one of the
committee, which illness proved fatal next
day, as she passed to her long rest, mourned
and missed by all.
M.A. Hardy, President.
Maggie Wignall, Sec’y.

UTAH STAKE.

	MINUTES of Conference of the Relief
Society of Utah Stake, held in American
Fork, April 19th, 1893. Sister Mary John
presiding with her counselors.
Conference opened with singing and
prayer; reading of minutes of former con-
ference and also reports from the various
bronches throughout the county.
	Sister John, the first speaker, hoped the-
Spirit of God would be with us today, was
pleased with our reports and although many
thought it was tiresome to sit and hear them
read, it was but right to know how the
means was expended that was taken in by
the society; exhorted the sisters to faithful-
ness in their duties, said there were great
responsibilities resting on them as wives
and mothers, spoke of the liberality of the
sisters in giving for the needy etc.
	Sister Farrer knew the Lord was always
willing to hear our prayers, could testify
to the power of God in healing the sick etc.
	Sister Standring thought we had every-
thing to encourage us to go on in this work.
The Lord will honor his daughters as well
as his sons, gave a good report of Lehi
Society, they were a good band of sisters
willing and ready to care for the needy
whether of our faith or not, spoke of being
at the Temple at the dedication and of the
holy spirit that was manifested there, etc.
Sister Marilla M. Daniels thought in
changing our place of Conferences we would
become better acquainted with each other.
Spoke of the many blessings we had re-
ceived lately and reviewed some of Presi-
dent Woodruff’s teaching and of the peace
and love pervading every heart, spoke on
Temple work etc.
	Sister Till spoke a short time on the
silk industry, and conference adjourned
after singing and prayer until 2 p. m.
	Afternoon Session:—Opened with the
usual exercises. Sister John spoke on the
contingent fund; and also concerning the
incorporation, hoped all would understand
it, we are in a school and let us try to im-
prove, in all good works, bore a testimony
to the truth of this gospel etc.
	Singing, “How Glorious will be the
Morning.”
	Sister Billings felt it a privilege to meet
with the sisters of American Fork; although
we are strangers we are engaged in the
same work. We are more blessed than any
other people on this earth, we can work for
our dead and what a blessing it is; our dead

[Column 3]
are waiting to have a work done for
them etc.
	Sister Till make a few additional remarks
in regard to the silk industry.
	Sister Patten spoke on various subjects,
gave her experience in this church; also
spoke of the dedication of the Temple.
	Sister Agnes Farrer bore her testimony to
the truth of this work, the world has noth-
ing like it.
	Bishop Halliday made some very inter-
esting remarks and gave the sisters good
counsel and advice. Spoke on the dedica-
tion of the Temple and various subjects
pertaining to our salvation.
	Brother Bromley said he had always
found the Relief Society in accord with the
Priesthood. Spoke upon order, said
obedience was in reality the first law of
God.
	After a few more remarks from Sister
Marilla M. Daniels conference was adjourn-
ed for three months, singing “The Spirit
of God.” Benediction by C. Daniels.
CAROLINE DANIELS.
Secretary Relief Society, Utah Stake.

SAN JUAN.

	MINUTES of the quarterly conference of
the Relief Society of San Juan Stake, held
at Mancos, Colorado Nov. 21st, 1892,
President Martha Hammond presiding.
After the usual exercises President Hani-
mond addressed the conference, felt that it
depended on ourselves whether we had a
good conference or not, wished each to of-
fer a silent prayer in behalf of the speakers,
that we might receive such instructions
as would be for our best good
	Counselor Delia Eyman, of Bluff Ward,
reported the society as being in a prosper-
ous condition, said the best of feelings pre-
vailed among the sisters.
	Counselor M. A. Perkins reported the
Monticella Society as doing well, though
few in numbers.
	President M. A. Dunton reported the
Mancos Relief Society as not being in a
very thriving condition, on account of the
scattered condition of the members; but
they felt like doing the best they could un-
der the circumstances.
	Counselor Mary Jones felt her weakness
in trying to instruct the sisters, said we
should be kind and forgiving, hoped we
would be able to retain and put in practice
the instructions we hear.
	Sister Jane S. Richards, Counselor to
President Zina D. H. Young, who in con-
nection with her husband, Apostle F. D.
Richards was in attendance at our Confer-
ence, then addressed the meeting in a very
able manner. Exhorted every sister to
have her name on the Relief Society roll,
and to meet together often, as we would be
greatly benefited thereby. Spoke of the
comparison which Sister Eliza R. Snow
often made, the heap of burning coals, when
you separate them they soon die out, and
when you want to rekindle them you have
to strike another match, comparing it with
the Relief Society holding meetings so
seldom, the members are apt to get cold
and die out, whereas if we meet together
often the sisters will be alive and energetic.
Felt to encourage the sisters in their labors
in this far off stake of Zion. Gave us many
good instructions on various subjects. Also
spoke of her trip to Washington to attend
the woman’s convention.
	Apostle F. D. Richards said he felt like
exhorting the sisters to attend meetings, for


we need the spirit of the Lord to be with
﻿us and the way to get and keep it is to at-
tend to our duties. Help take care of the
poor, no matter of what sect or color. Our
conduct should be such that all people will
honor and respect us, asked the Lord to
bless and prosper the sisters. Said that we
would not always be in the scattered con-
dition we were now, but our numbers
would increase and our stake be built up,
so that we wouldn’t be obliged to travel so
far to attend meetings as now, said some-
time we would have a temple built here.
Made many other good remarks,
	President F. A. Hammond hoped we
would be benefited by the good counsel
given. The general and local officers were
then sustained by the conference. President
Martha Hammond made a few closing re-
marks. Singing, benediction by Counselor
William Halls.
	The visit of Apostle and Sister Richards
was very much appreciated by the saints,
and we hope they will favor us again
sometime in the near future.
	On November 22nd, 1892, the Relief
Society of Mancos Ward was reorganized
and the following named sisters set apart to
act in their respective positions. Elnora
Hammond President, Sarah Burnham
and Mary Slade Counselors, Louie M.
White, Secretary; Emma L. Wilden
Treasurer.
		EVELYN ADAMS, Sec. pro tem.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


NOTES AND NEWS.

	CHARRES EGBERT CRADDOCK (Miss
	JUNE 17 is the anniversary of the Battle
of Bunker Hill. It is commemorated far 
and wide with flags and bells and patriotic
eloquence. This is the celebration of a 
victory won long ago for the principle that
taxation without representation is tyranny.
No one has quite so good a right to rejoice
in the anniversary as those who are fight-
ing today for the application of the same
principle to women. At Montreal, they
show to visitors, among other curiosities
and trophies, a small cannon captured from
the Americans at the battle of Bunker Hill.
One American woman to whom it was ex-
hibited looked sharply at the official in 
charge and said, with spirit: “Well, you’ve
got the cannon, but I guess we’ve got the
hill!” The people who are cheering and 
firing guns in honor of June 17 have the 
cannon; but we have the principle, which 
is more eternal than the hills; and sooner or 
later, everybody will see it.— Woman's
Journal.

	THE death of Edwin Booth removes not 
only a great actor from the theatre of life,
but a distinguished figure from the few 
notable men and women who mark a coun-
try or an age with the stamp of their indi-
viduality. Mr. Booth represented not only 
his own success to the public, but the for-
tunes of his family, who have been to the 
American stage what the Kembles were in 
England. In both these illustrious names
shine virtues of public and private life. It
is claimed that genius is not hereditary,
and yet in the histrionic bent there is much
to disprove the claim. Edwin Booth walk-
ed the stage of daily living with much the
same melancholy which marked the gentle
prince Hamlet. With griefs which were
tragic indeed, the great actor hardly needed
to simulate the roles which gave him 
thunders of applause. His name is


indissolubly linked with all that is best in
dramatic art. "After life’s fitful fever he
sleeps well." 				ELITE.


EDEN.
ON a glorious Sabbath morning in the ages long
	ago,
In the most delightful garden ever warmed by
	summer’s glow,
Where the roses, pinks and lilies and the modest
	violet vied
With the graceful waving pampas and the dahlia’s
	stately pride.

Where stood trees all richly laden with fruits of
	every kind,
Where sweet aromatic odors floated softly on
	the wind,
That gently stirred the leaflets as the sunbeam’s
	shimmered through
Showing figs all ripe and luscious and the
	citrons dainty hue.

Not a weed was in the garden nought to mar the
	charming scene,
While rippling through its centre was a placid
	silvery stream
And birds of brighter plumage gaily flitted to
	and fro
Chirping twitting, sweet songs singing on that
	morning long ago.

In this paradise enchanting roamed a stalwart
	noble man
In the image of his Maker comprehend it if you
	can,
By his side a lovely woman for a helpmeet unto 
	him,
Not his slave nor yet his servant hum’ring every
	foolish whim.

Not his cook, O happy woman! it was theirs to
	pluck and eat,
Not his seamstress for their toilet nature’s garb
	made all complete,
But with him to hold dominion over every living
	thing,
On the earth, beneath the water, and the birds of
	varied wing.

Together they held possession of this highly
	favored land,
Together they stood and listened to the Father’s
	grave command,
Together received His blessing and the promise
	of His care
If they would try to serve Him and remember
	Him in prayer.

And together we must labor gentle woman, earn-
	est man,
For the lifting up of nations and restore the
	ancient plan 
And together have dominion and make this earth
	an Eden,
For know to make a perfect man, you must have
	Eve and Adam.
RUTH M. FOX.


IN MEMORIAM.

	[RESOLUTIONS of respect for Sister Elizabeth
Davidson Lant] Born May 26th, 1893. Aged
sixty-three years and two days.
	Whereas: she held the office of presiding
teacher in the Relief Society of the 2nd, Ward,
Payson Utah.
	Resolved:—That we the officers and members
of the Relief Society, express our appreciation 
and sympathy, with the bereaved family, friend
and relatives of our beloved sister, who has pass-
ed away from this world, laid in the grave to rest
in peace to await a glorious Resurrection, the
reward of a faithful Saint, “Blessed are the dead


that die in the Lord, their works do follow them.
	Resolved;—-That in the death of our beloved
Sister Elizabeth D. Lant, our Society has lost a
faithful officer, a modest and earnest member in
ministering to the sick and needy.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be
presented to the bereaved husband and family,
be spread upon our record, and printed in the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
Committee MARY H. BLENKY,
                  ELIZABETH STARK,
                  LYDIA DEAN.

[Lines written on the death of Elizabeth Lant
who died at Payson, May 26th, 1893.]
"Dearest sister thou hast left us,"
Thou has left this world of care,
	But 'tis God who hath bereft us
Thou art saved from every snare.
Thou art missed among the circle
	When we join in songs of praise,
Missed among the happy circle,
	In our happy meeting days.
Yet again we hope to meet thee,
	And all join that happy throng.
Thou are gone to join the faithful,
	Where all happy Saints belong.
Oh! how blest will be our meeting,
	When we join you hand in hand
Parents, loved ones, Saints all greeting,
	Will join to make the Holy band. 
M. H. BLENKY.


Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
	Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
	ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
		AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
			POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But
tons covered while you wait. Burial Salts a Specialty 
 No. 41 S.  WEST TEMPLE STREET,
	Opp. Grant Bros. Stables.

	MRS. M. E. VAN. M. D.  
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p m

R.K. THOMAS
26,28,30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY. 

The Leading Retail 
Cash House

R.K.THOMAS

	DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS CAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS 

	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE 
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
he country promptly responded to 
DAVID JAMES, Box.306. Salt Lake City

