
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 10.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 1, 1881.	No. 1.


THE YOUNG MAY MOON.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

The young May Moon! Ah! well might Moore
	And such as he, thine advent sing,
How many human eyes—before
	Whose vision tho[-] dost Heaven bring!

How many hearts have bowed beneath
	Thy mystic charm of crescent beam,
Surrounding us as with a wreath
	Of glory from its wondrous sheen!

How many hearts are raised from earth
	While gazing on thy placid face,
Yes thou hast oft dispell'd the dearth
	That hung o'er our abiding place;

We may not kiss our hand to thee
	Nor yet the knee in worship bend,—
But thou shalt be a voice to me,
	And I thro' thee will whisperings send

To Him, who hung thee up above,
	As One of His Omniscient Eyes!
As on the Altar of my love
	I lay my votive sacrifice!

Oh! glorious concave! as I stand
	And thro' thy golden vistas gaze,
My spirit eye beholds the Hand
	Of God—silent, fond amaze.
The starry vault, a whispering tongue
	By every listening ear is heard,
That tells of Heaven on Earth begun,
	A lamp by which to read His word.—
The young May Moon, again I turn
	To gaze upon its silent beam,
And thoughts within my bosom burn
	But language fails to paint the theme.

The young May Moon has come and waned—
	Spring flowers come forth, then fade and die
And knowledge thus is daily gained
	That life and death around us lie!

Types of the resurrection—these—
	Mankind start forth with beauty ripe
Then pass away by fell desease
	By life and death in mortal strife!

Father! withdraw the awful veil,
	The grand Beyond that we may see—
Let dream or vision tell the tale
	When we shall dwell indeed with Thee!
Salt Lake City, May 1881.


[Column 1]
LIVING LINKS:
OR
SPIRITUAL AND TEMPORAL.

BY AVONDALT.

				[CONCLUDED.]
	One of the tenets of the Gospel received by
the Latter-day Saints in common with all other
principles of truth, is that of baptism for the
dead; this was regarded by the Missionary
Unipod as being wickedly absurd if not un-
scriptural, and as to plural marriage, although
the ancient patriarchs practised it, the entire
institution was the device of the devil to lead
men into licentionsness; according to that gen-
tleman's opinion. And he felt justified iu op-
posing the Latter-day Saints on account of
these doctrines, as did the London City mis-
sionaries generally. If this opposition had
been conducted upon Christian principles, that
is in the Spirit of love,it might have been justifi-
able, but the most rancorous hate was man-
ifested. It did not seem to enter into the mind
of the Missionary that the Gospel Jesus taught
was that of love, and that the fruits of the Spirit,
conferred upon his disciples, were love, joy,
peace, long-suffering, gentleness, and all the

[Column 2]
virtues. So thoroughly imbued was Mr.
Unipod with enmity to "Mormonism" that even
his "Mormon" son was hated. Now if Christian
people would reflect they would find no just-
ification in hating any one, on account of dif-
ference of religious opinion. So sensible of
this were the founders of the London City Mis-
sion itself, that one of its laws prohibited doc-
trinal discussions, lest they should lead to
division.
	So long as the missionaries were guided by
this wholesome rule, the affairs of the entire
mission prospered, and when active hostility
commenced against the missionary Elders of
the Latter-day Saints, internal discord began
and brotherly love ceased to characterize them
as brethren.
	That Missionary Unipod was honest in his
antagonism to his son, and to those associated
with him in religious faith there can be no
question. Even on his death-bed he called his
"Mormon" son close to him, and whispered:
"Joseph, I am going to leave you, and we shall
never meet again." But that "Mormon" son
knew more than his dying father did of the
nature of the Gospel of Christ. He knew the
meaning of the comprehensive words of Jesus.
"He that believeth in me, though he were dead
yet shall he live." He knew that the glorious
Gospel is not narrowed down to paltry sectarian
dimensions. He had received of the Spirit of
the Gospel, that Spirit which takes of the
things of the Father and the Son, and reveals
them to every true believer. Yes! and that Spirit
was there, by the side of the dying bed of the
devoted Missionary, to bless and cheer his
father. The "Mormon" son who himself was a
missionary at that time took the right hand of
his beloved father and whispered to him in
turn, with words of hope: "Father I know
where you are going to and I will come and
visit you." Yes! and the father believed these
words, carried home to the heart as they were
by the Spirit of Truth. It takes but a short
time to open the visions of the mind to the
spiritual things of this creation when God
quickens the understanding. In the twinkling
of an eye the dying father saw his son in his
true colors, he loved him then! Trying to ap-
ologize for harshness towards him, a thing that
was quite unnecessary, he asked forgiveness,
but everything had long since been forgiven!
It is not surprisitg then that the "Mormon" son
has been baptized in Zion for his beloved
father; gone into the water for him; that al-
though he had died without having honored
the law, it should be honored for him: Ex-
cept a man be born of water and of the Spirit
he cannot enter the kingdom of God." That
the son had a clear right to minister on earth
for the deceased father, the ordinances of the
Gospel have made provision for; and in the
human family there will always be a living
link somewhere by which the temporal and
spiritual can be united. The time may be long
in accomplishing all the redemptions that are
possible, but the eternities are long. Thus all
may have an opportunity of receiving the
Gospel, and the time shall come that "Every
knee shall bow and every tongue shall confess
that Jesus is the Christ, to the glory of God the
Father."
	The London City Missionary was followed to
the grave by scores of his fellow missionaries.
Thirty-five years he had been doing the work
of the Master in the best manner he knew how
to do,and his works follow him. Many were the

[Column 3]
eulogies spoken and written about this good
man.
	The "Mormon" son followed the remains of
his father to their last resting place, conscious
that had the father lived he would no longer
have opposed the Gospel. And there were as-
surances that all would be well with the de-
parted missionary, given by the lips of the
priesthood. "Your father was a good man,
honestly opposed to the work of the Lord by
reason of his own traditions, he will inherit a
great Terrestrial glory!" The name of the be-
loved father is now recorded among the names
of those who have honored the law of Baptism;
and the "Mormon" son still lives to see Temples
built in honor of the Most High, in which
the glorious work of salvation for the living and
the dead shall be finally consummated.


WORD OF WISDOM.

READ AT THE ASSOCIATION IN THE ELEVENTH
WARD.

	I have been appointed to write an essay on
this most-talked-of subject, and I have tried to
express a few of my ideas upon it. I do not
think it consists altogether in not taking tea,
coffee and strong drinks, but we should use
wisdom in every act of our lives. For instance,
it is not wisdom for us young people to keep
late hours, as there are so many temptations to
lead astray the unsuspecting, nor is it wisdom
for us to dress our bodies in that way and man-
ner that is both unbecoming and unhealthy and
sinful in the sight of the Lord. It is not wis-
dom for us to associate with those that are not
of us, for many are wicked and designing, and
would lead us from the paths of virtue and
truth. Neither is it wisdom for us to make
gluttons of ourselves in taking everything that
our appetites crave and that will injure us both
bodily and spiritually. We all will admit that
tea, coffee, tobacco, strong drinks and meats
are good in their place, and if we should learn
to use them for the purpose Nature intended
and that they were created for. There are a
great many other things that could be said on
this subject, but which I will leave till some fu-
ture day; and in the meantime, let us try to
practice the "Word of Wisdom" in the few
matters that I have written upon, and that we
may all have strength to do so is my earnest
desire.				FLORENCE RIDGES.


Mr. Mason secured Friday, May 27th, for
the discussion of his Resolution, in the House
of Commons, England: "That in the opinion
of this House the parliamentary franchise
should be extended to women who possess the
qualifications which entitle men to vote, and
who, in all matters of local government, have
the right of voting."
	The "History of Woman Suffrage," edited
by Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Susan B. Anthony
and Matilda Joslyn Gage, is to be issued in two
royal octavo volumes, nearly one thousand
pages each, illustrated with many fine steel
portraits of eminent women. Volume 1 is now
ready, contains 878 pages and 12 steel en-
gravings. Sold only by subscription. Price,
bound in heavy cloth, imitation morocco, per
volume, $5.00 in full calf; marble edges, per
volume, $6.50. Agents wanted, to whom spe-
cial terms and territory will be given. Ad-
dress—Fowler, & Wells, Publishers, 753 Broad-
way, New York.


2	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
BENJAMIN DISRAELI.

BY HANNAH T. KING.
	When names are rendered mighty by good deeds
	Titles are dropt as husks that bore the seeds;
	The name alone is all that need be traced,
	By that the marble is in beauty graced—
	And that alone an Epitaph will form,
	For him, not one, but many nations mourn.

	On the entrance of Disraeli into Parliatment,
Mr. Wyndham Lewes was his colleague, both
being Commoners; from that time a close friend-
ship sprang up between them, and continued
till the death of Mr. Lewes;—I think I am
right in saying that Disraeli was one of the
executors of his will. He had been an efficient
servant of the State, and through the sugges-
tions and influence of Disraeli, the title of
Viscountess Beaconsfield, in her own right,
was conferred on his widow; years after, she
became the wife of Disraeli. The Queen had
desired for some time to raise him to the peer-
age, but he had always firmly but respectfully
declined the honor; but on his marriage her
wishes became commands, and he then was in-
vested with the title of Earl of Beaconsfield,
and after his return from signing the treaty
of Berlin, Her Majesty conferred on him the
Order of the Garter, which is the highest honor
of the English crown. "Honor to whom honor
is due" is the Scriptural injunction, and we
feel gratified that it was largely bestowed on
one who, step by step, and by an indomitable
will and a far-seeing judgment, had nobly
earned it all. He is pronounced by friend and
foe to have been the greatest statesman Eng-
land has possessed since William Pitt; he has
left a position none can at present take up.
His loss can only be estimated by time, and
the experiences it will unavoidably bring. At
the present time England could ill spare her
noble pilot from the helm of the Ship of State,
with his calm, clear brain, his strong hand and
unflinching will. "Although the leading spirit
has departed, those remain who, by long asso-
ciation, have drunk deep at the fountain head,
and can still diffuse its essence. He it
was who rescued England from her
degraded position, and placed her high in the
councils of the world. He taught nations to
respect her name and honor her traditions. His
manly courage and firmness enforced respect
and confidence. The high position then at-
tained remained with the great Tory chief un-
til his death, and all the world is ready to do
homage to his loyalty to his sovereign, and to
his patriotism to the country of his birth and
fame!" It is a remarkable result in the case
of one who had nothing but his genius to aid
him. He had no patron in high life, no college
connection, no friendship in high places to help
him; indeed, he had the prejudice of poverty
and race against him. Nothing but the high-
est courage sustained him, and the Christian-
Jew became the embodiment of nearly all that
is noble and great in the English character.
Mr. Disraeli became a Christian in faith at a
very early age—it is said at twelve years—and
maintained it to the end of his mortal career.
As a young man he showed no particular apti-
tude for anything except literature; he disliked
business, but cultivated his mind by travel,
which the comparatively slender means of his
father enabled him to enjoy. He began life as
a politician, determined to win his way to fame
and greatness. He was most emphatically a
self-made man. By his perseverance and in-
domitable will he succeeded, step by step, in
winning the high positions he for years has
filled, and was twice Premier of England, the
one position nearest to the throne. His per-
sonal qualities had also a great deal to do with
his success. "Little children loved him, wo-
manly hearts worshipped him, and strong men
held his right hand lovingly and loyally when
he died."

[Column 2]
	During his illness several letters were writ-
ten to him by children, hoping "his Lordship
would soon be better." Such were the best
tributes that could be paid to any one. It is
not by what strangers say, or what they think,
that character can be tested, it is the home cir-
cle; and there this most remarkable man was
beloved in a most remarkable manner. Some
years ago a lady friend of both himself and
his Viscountess died and left him a handsome
estate on condition of her remains being laid
side by side with her beloved friends in their
family vault at Hughenden!!—this wash was
complied with—the name of this Lady was
Mrs. Brydges Willyams; here is a speciman of
the tenacity, and appreciation of friendship,
that is most expressive and unique! it is said
that he never made a personal enemy—party
ones he had bitter ones—but at his death it is
remarkable every opposing feeling seemed laid
aside, and the daily callers in Curzon Street were
all that had ever known him, and admired his
wondrous abilities; the most delicate atten-
tion was shewn him, even to leaving their car-
riages at the top of the street, and walking to
the house that no noise might desturb him.
Ladies, Marchionesses and Duchesses observed
this attention. At his own Manor of Hugh-
enden, the Vicar of which the Rev. Henry
Blagden M. A. spoke of him in high terms at
the Vestry meeting saying, "I rise to give ex-
pression to our regret at the great loss our parish
has sustained by the lamented death of the Earl
of Beaconsfield; during the twelve years that I
have been Vicar, no one could be more kindly
or liberally disposed toward the parish than he
was. I never applied to him for help without
his meeting me in the kindest, and most gener-
ous way; and I know how dearly he loved this
place and always had the well-being of Hugh-
enden at heart. In his last illness he pined for
his beloved Home, and although he knew that
the honor of a public funeral in Westminister
Abbey might be his, he always set his face
against it, because he desired that his body
should lie here in the place he loved so much.
I can safely say that those who knew him best,
loved him best; and I never heard one of his
Tenants, or one of those who served him, say
an unkind or bitter word against him. No
public man was ever able to call forth such an
amount of devotion as he did, not only among
his political supporters, but still more when we
come to the narrower circle of his own place;"
the Vicar then proposed resolutions to record
the irreparable loss the nation, and especially
the Manor of Haghenden had sustained by the
death of the Earl of Beaconsfield etcetera; in
speaking to the resolution Mr Thomas Coates
said, "as a Tenant of the late Earl for a quart-
er of a century he endorsed all the Vicar had
said"—of course I have merely given a synopsis
of what aught every word to have been quoted,
as coming from one who as the Clergyman of
the parish had been brought into much of the
inner life of the Disraeli family. Demonstra-
tions of respect were held throughout the
country the day of the funeral and services held
at most of the Churches and the most eulogistie
remarks made,the burden and refrain being that
"the country had lost a very great man and
the Queen one she regarded as her friend, and
counselor."
	I now give clippings from London, papers
which speak for themselves—

	"A well-known diplomatist was not long ago
conferring with Prince Bismarck in the latter's
private cabinet, when the conversation chanced
to turn on the Berlin Congress and the conspicu-
ous part which the chief Plenipotentiary of
Great Britain had taken at it. 'There' said
the Chancellor, pointing to the wall, there hangs
the portrait of my Sovereign, there on the right
that of my wife, and on the left that of Lord
Beaconsfield."
	"Everywhere there are signs of true sorrow

[Column 3]
and respect; friend and foe alike have striven
to emulate each other in mourning a national
loss, while the foreign Press teems with eulogy
on the great man just passed away. To merely
quote what has already appeared would require
more than one edition of this paper. It is re-
markable, however, that among so many autho-
rities there should be so little that is censorious.
If we acept a few ill-conditioned Radical papers,
there has been nothing but universal praise.
It would be foolish to suppose that the late
Earl had not many and bitter political oppo-
nents, but under the shadow of sorrow so recent,
nearly all unite in setting forth the better side
of the great man's career. Of the many flatter-
ing notices that have appeared in the foreign
newspapers, that in the Bersaglieri of Rome is
the most picturesque. The writer says—
	"The man whom Mr. Gladstone had re-
proached as not having a drop of English blood
in his veins has given to the English Gladstone
a terrible lesson in patriotism: he found Eng-
land reduced, as Lord Russell said, to a Power
of the third order, and he replaced her in her
ancient position.	-	-	-	-	His end
was ever the greatness and prosperity of Eng-
land. To the domesticity loving Queen this
ambitious man, this remoulder of Empires, was
extremely dear. The daughter of the Bruns-
wicks and Tudors leaned in glad security on
the arm of the Hebrew's son."

	"A man who did not know how to hestitate or
vacillate when he saw what he believed to be
duty; who did not undo to-day what he had
done yesterday; fearless and independent, true
to conviction and bold in action; one who
would rather look defeat in the face than be
false to his principles."

	The following is a clause in his will and he
desires that the words "in her own right," shall
be inscribed even on her Tomb—trifles truly
speak character!

	"I desire and direct that I may be buried in
the same vault in the churchyard of Hughen-
den in which the remains of my late dear wife,
Mary Anne Disraeli, created in her own right
Viscountess Beaconsfield, were placed, and
that my funeral may be conducted with the
same simplicity as hers was".

	The last extract has a ring in it that causes
my whole soul to vibrate and respond to the
chords it strikes! why is this? "There are more
things in Heaven and Earth, than are dreampt
of in our philosophy or if some whisperings of the
Spirit of truth, give us glimpses of light, and
understanding through the crannies of the Soul,
they are given alone for our edification and
generally we find the language we now possess
even with all its wondrous power of communi-
cation is still inadequate to express that, which
by some invisible power is conveyed to us, and
with it a Lexicon of the same mysterious con-
struction by which we can comprehend and
define its meaning; and we are fed and en-
lightened, and edified and we go on our way re-
joicing, we acknowledge it the voice of God, and
we heard it without fear, but with joy and glad-
ness! well may our minds go out into the Elysian
fields, leaving the things of "the earth earthy"
and in the vision of those minds we see the
hand of God, almost as did "the brother of
Jared"—"God moves in a mysterious way"
"He raises up instruments, He fills them with
intelligence that is of no earthly school; the
portion of His Spirit that he has conferred up-
on them, draws all men unto them," and wo-
men too, and even children," pluck their robe
to gain their smile; and so they pass thro' life,
with all eyes fixed upon them, all minds trying
to read them, all imaginations engrossed by
them, living meteors that cross our path in
their glory and their brightness, they rush on—
till like the masse of humanity they are swal-
lowed up in the Maelstrom of Death!—and there
the door is shut,and we are left dazzled by their


glorious transit, recalling the days of their life,
and the glory of them, recalling their words,
their looks,their power of attraction their power
to benefit, and elevate mankind, to benefit and
elevate nations, recalling that last speech those
last words that last look,that last pressure of the
hand.—Leave me alone for I will weep yet
longer.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 3


THERE'S A STRANGE WILD GLEAM.

[-]Y M. J. TANNER.

There's a strange wild gleam in the moonlight's glow,
	And a soft low voice in the air to-night;
As it glimmers across the drifted snow,
	That carries me back to the old starlight.
When the moon shone down so cold and clear,
	And the hoar-frost glistened on tree and bough;
And memory pauses to drop a tear
	O'er the buried hopes of the long ago.

There's a strange glow comes to my heart to-night,
	And wild and sharp its depths are stirred
And my pulses thrill with a strange delight,
	Awaked by the sound of a little word.
For Oh! in the past, there are graves so deep,
	Where skeleton forms are hidden from view
And sadly we've paused o'er the sods to weep
	As the long swift years have carried us through.

The spirits that glide o'er the waters may weep,
	And the cold dark waves a requiem swell:
But the low wild wail,of the waters keep,
	The secret their voices may never tell,
Though the sounding surge of the watery main,
	Will awaken thoughts that had gone to rest,
And the sighing wind o'er the sandy plain
	Will sob like a child on its mother's breast.


[Column 1]
PEN SKETCH OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS
WOMAN.

ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.

				CONTINUED.
	Sister Eliza's visits while in the Holy Land
to the places of note are all thrillingly set forth
in the Book of Letters published some time
after the return of the Palestine party, and
would be instructive to our young people. On
Sunday March the 2nd. 1873, President George
A. Smith and party, Sister Eliza included,
went on horseback to the Mount of Olives, and
ascended the summit. They sent before them
tent, table, seats and carpet. On this Mount is
the "Church of Ascension" which they visited;
it is said to stand on the very spot where Jesus
ascended. The tent was pitched and service
was conducted there after the manner of the
Holy priesthood as revealed in this dispensa-
tion; strange must it have seemed to those
Pilgrims,so to speak,to gather upon this sacred
Mount, so famed in Scripture, and renowned
throughout all civilized lands, and where Jesus
spoke to the people, hundreds of years before,
dedicate and consecreate that land anew, to the
gathering of the Jews and the rebuilding of
Jerusalem. Strange too that a woman should
take part in this peculiar work as did Eliza at
that time in worshiping in that holy place, per-
mitted to wander where in that remarkable era
wandered Mary the mother of Jesus and
Elizabeth. A sort of link to bind the women
of that wonderful age to the women of this
latter dispensation.
	The day following the Sabbath spent upon
the Mount of Olives, Sister Eliza visited the
"Mosque of Omar" famous among Moham-
medans. She says "it is the best Edifice in Jer-
usalem." There were many interesting places
and things to attract one like her in traveling
up and down this land of the past. On the
evening of the 4th, the Jewish Rabbi Abraham
Askenasi and three others called upon President
Smith's party at their tent, and the "Mormons'
and Jews had a most interesting interview

[Column 2]
Sister Eliza was charmed "with the scenic view
of the surroundings of this ancient site of time-
honored memories," and a "feeling of reluctance"
that she bade Jerusalem farewell.
	On the 5th, the party resumed their journey,
passed the "Gibbeah of Saul," and rode on to
Bethel, the place of Jacob's vision, and en-
camped in a mountainous romantic spot where
clear, pure water flowed from the almost per-
pendicular rocks. The next day they passed
the Mosque of Shiloh; the country was exced-
ingly picturesque: they stopped at Jacob's
Well near the entrance to the valley, between
Mt. Ebal and Mt. Gerizim. Here the party
took every bit of cord and rope attainable and
drew water from this celebrated well, Near
this well is the place where it is supposed Jesus
asked the Samaritan woman for water.
Traveling on and passing Scriptural places al-
most continuously, they reached at length "the
memorable city of Nazareth. Sister Eliza says
Nazareth is a dirty town almost filthy and con-
tains a large number of beggars; and that she
was forcibly reminded of the question of Nath-
aniel "Can any good come out of Nazareth?"
Notwithstanding the poverty of the place the
people in personal attire are cleanly, many of
them dressing in pure white from top to toe,
and in this respect do not at all correspond
with the views of their dwellings from the out-
side, which are neglected and untidy in appear-
ance- But the city (Nazareth) is immortalized
as being the home of our blessed Savior here
upon the earth. While there Sister Eliza tells
us of a large company of Armenians on a pil-
grimage to Jerusalem. She says, "I walked
into their midst and the closer view increased
my heart-ache for poor, degraded hummanity."
Leaving Nazareth the Palestine tourists passed
over the plains of Galilee; and from time to
time saw many wandering Arabs, or Bedouins,
traveling from place to place,with their fam-
ilies, flocks and herds, and camping as con-
venient for agriculture,pasturage and such like
purposes.
	Possibly Sister Eliza herself, scarcely con-
ceived all the peculiar grandeur of this journey,
or realized its bearing in full force while travel-
ing over these once consecrated, but now some-
what desolated plains and places of renown;
but we will venture to assert that no woman
holding the same rank and prestige, be she
queen or princess, has ever trod those immor-
talized plains since the days of Mary and Eliza-
beth. Eliza has been permitted "by the grace
of God," to stand in holy places, and pause by
the surging waters, memorable forever from
historical association with Jesus, Mary and
their co-laborers in that dispensation. To even
mention all these points of interest would
scarcely be consistent with our space, but we
must pause at the beautiful Sea of Galilee, so
famed in the history of our Savior. Here as at
almost all the eminently, remarkable points in
the journey, the inspiration of the Muse drew
forth from this "Mormon" poetess, sojourning
in the Hebrew land what we designate a song
of the sea. It is however entitled, "At the Sea
of Galilce." No doubt the most sublime and
holy emotions filled the soul of this gifted wo-
man, as she stood as it were entranced in the
visions of the marvelous past, the fruitful
present and the glorious future. Endowed with
blessings and powers from under the hands of
the prophet of the last dispensation she pos-
sessed a talisman to unravel much that would be
closed to others, and like a daughter of the
Psalmist she poured forth in musical rhythm a
few of her thoughts by this Scriptural Sea, of
which we give a verse or two.

"I have stood on the shore of the beautiful sea,
The renown'd aud immortalized Galilee,
When 'twas wrapp'd in repose at eventide,
Like a royal queen in her regal pride.

[Column 3]"I thought of the present—the past; it seem'd
That the silent sea with instruction teem'd;
For often, indeed, the heart can hear
What never, in sound, has approached the ear.

*		*		*		*		*		*

"There's a depth in the soul, that's beyond the reach
Of all earthly sound—of all human speech,
A fiber too sacred and pure to chime
With the cold, dull music of Earth and Time.

*		*		*		*		*		*

"Again when the shades of night, were gone,
In the clear bright rays of the morning dawn,
I walked on the bank of this self-same Sea,
Where once our Redeemer was wont to be."

	While Sister Eliza walked by the Sea of
Galilee, there came a young daughter of Juda,
who after the oriental custom filled an earthen
jar with sea-water, placed it on her head and
walked away; she followed her and by signs
gave her to understand she wished to accompany
her home. The girl was pleased and on enter-
ing her home the young Jewess introduced her
to her mother, they showed her their garden,
and the young lady taking from her the pretty
wild-flowers she had in her hand gave her some
green branches of hyssop to which shrub she
says, they seem to attach a great deal of con-
sequence.
			To be continued.


THE WILL OF "GEORGE ELIOT."

	The will (dated May 6th, 1880) of Mrs. Mary
Ann Cross (George Eliot),the wife of Mr. John
Walter Cross, late of No. 4, Cheyne-walk, Chel-
sea, who died on December 22nd last, was
proved on the 9th inst., by Charles Lee Lewes,
the sole executor, the personal estate, limited to
the property she had power of appointment
over by virtue of a settlement (dated May 4th,
1880) and under the will of Mrs. Mary Evar-
ard, being sworn under £40,000. By the set-
tlement referred to not only was the property
she then possessed settled, but also any she
might hereafter acquire by exercise of her lite-
rary skill. The testatrix bequeaths £5,000 to
Miss Emily Clarke, £1,000 to Vivian Byam
Lewes, an annuity of £100 for her life to Mrs.
Caroline Bray, and an annuity of £40 for her
life to her housekeeper, Mrs. Mary Dowling.
The sum of £12,500 is to be set aside, in the
names of her executor and her husband as
trustees and the income paid to Mrs. Eliza
Lewes, the widow of Herbert Arthur Lewes,
for life or during widowhood, and on her death
or second marriage, as to one moiety of the cap-
ital fund for her son, George Henry Lewes,and
as to the other moiety for her daughter, Marian
Lewes. As to the residue of her property, the
testatrix gives the same to the said Charles Lee
Lewes, his heirs, executors, administrators, and
assigns absoluely.—Itlustraled London News.


BIRTHDAY.

	April 26th, 1881 being the 76 anniversary of
Sister Ann Gardner. a teacher in our Relief So-
ciety; the officers and a number of members
met at her house to give her a surprise each ex-
pressed her love and good wishes in a short
speech. A poem written for the occasion was
composed and read by Mrs. Christina Higgins.
several of the sisters gave Sister Gardner a
useful present as a token of their respect. All
partook of a nice supper, social chat intermixed
with singing during the evening, all felt well
and enjoyed a goodly portion of the Spirit of
the Lord. Sister Gardner is a Widow and
emigrated to Utah with her family from Scot-
land, with the hand cart company in 1856.
She has always been a good and faithful mem-
ber of the Church and is respected by all who
know her.
					LOUISA TAYLOR, Sec'y.


4	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY,	—	JUNE 1, 1881.


[Column 1]
BRIGHAM YOUNG.

	This people doubtless remember that to-day,
June 1st, is the birthday of Brigham Young, one
of the most distinguished men of the nineteenth
century, and for more than thirty years Presi-
dent of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter
day Saints. His remarkable works are living
monuments to the memory of the illustrious
man who led the hosts of Israel through the
wilderness, and sought out a safe abiding place,
where towns and cities have been built, peace
and plenty multiplied and temples reared to the
Most High, and the standard of Zion unfurled
to all nations. Honor to the name of Brigham
Young. The children of the Saints should be
taught to revere his memory. It seems only a
slight tribute to the memory of such a man,that
the day of his birth should be remembered
by the people for whom he labored. The suc-
cessor of Joseph Smith, the great Prophet of the
last dispensation, and himself Prophet, Seer and
Revelator of the Church for so long a period. In
the journeyings of the Saints from Nauvoo, he
displayed the greatest ability as a leader, endur-
ing in common with the masses of the people
the toils and hardships incident to pioneer life,
ever encouraging and cheering them under all
trials and difficulties.
	To Brigham Young also belongs the credit of
practically establishing the institution of Celes-
tial Marriage, revealed through the Prophet Jo-
seph and taught during his lifetime, yet never
proclaimed publicly or the revelation published
to the world, until after the people had perma-
nently settled themselves in this Territory. It
took almost superhuman courage to face the op-
position which such an innovation upon tra-
dition and custom aroused. But Brigham Young
proved himself equal to the emergency, and
maintained the dignity of a man called of God
to bring about His divine purposes, through ev-
ery struggle brought to overthrow the practice
of this patriarchal law designed to benefit and
bless the human race.
	At an advanced age in life, he traveled exten-
sively, north, south, east and west, to organize
and strengthen the Stakes of Zion, and perfect
the order of the quorums of the Holy Priest-
hood. He was a true friend to the Indians, and
his policy was ever to preserve peace with them
and aid them in the path to civilization. Feed
them and clothe them, instead of fighting them,
was his manner of treatment. But for the wis-
dom and prudence he manifested towards these
savages at an early period in the settlement of
the country, there can be no doubt the lives and
property of the people would have been jeopar-
dized.
	Brigham Young re organized the Relief Soci-
ety, which placed woman upon a higher platform
than she had been heretofore considered entitled
	He originated the idea of Mutual Improve-

[Column 2]
ment Associations, such as exist for our young
people throughout the Church at the present
time. He set the pattern in his own family,and
called upon Sister Eliza R. Snow to organize his
own daughters into an Association. He after-
wards called upon Junius F. Wells to organize
the young men into Associations. He believed
in women holding the ballot, and was anxious
that the women of this Territory should enjoy
the franchise, and was instrumental in securing
to them this privilege. President Young was
also desirous the women of Zion should publish
a paper in their own interest, and was solicitous
that it should be extensively circulated,and that
the sisters should preserve their volumes and
have them bound, for, said he, "it will contain a
portion of Church history, the record of the
works and experiences of women," and in honor
of him the paper was first issued on his birthday,
the 1st of June, 1872. He also called upon the
sisters to store up grain against a day of need,
to use their influence to dissuade their husbands
from sending it out of the country. In short,
his life was made up of the excellencies of labor
in the interests of Zion. To enumerate all his
strong and marked characteristics and unwearied
labors would require greater ability than we pos-
sess, and would fill volumes. He was indeed a
man of the people, raised up when there was
desperate need of strength of character and a
will indomitable in surmounting difficulties
brought to bear against the chosen people of God.
The mantle of Joseph fell upon him, and
he was, it seemed, instantaneously endowed with
power from on high, preparatory to the great
work assigned him to do. His labors were in-
deed arduous, we might say the burdens laid up-
on him wore grievous to be borne, but his
strength was equal to his day. He has finished
his work here and passed behind the vail to join
Joseph and Hyrum and the hosts who are
awaiting the morning of the first resurrection.
In closing, we will quote a stanza from the poem
written upon his death and burial, by Eliza R.
Snow:

There sleeps, the weary flesh, and rests in peace,
While he, the master-spirit of the age,
Associates with the first great leader of
This Dispensation in the ocurts above.

He loved his people—their high destiny
Will be a monument to Brigham Young.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	SISTERS E. R. S. Smith, E. C. S. Clawson
and L. B. Felt went to Granite yesterday to or-
ganize a Primary Asssociation in that Ward.

	Sister Zina D. H. Young and M. Isabella
Horne left for Richfield May 23d to attend the
Sisters' Conference of Sevier Stake, which
was expected to convene the 27th ult. They in-
tend to visit through the settlements of Sevier
County before returning.

	Ladies Conferences: Weber Stake Conference
will be held in Ogden, 9th, 10th and 11th of this
month. Tooele Stake Conference will be held
in Grantsville on the 11th and 12th of June
Box Elder Conference in Brigham City the 13th
and 14th of June. Utah Stake Conference was
held the 27th of May; Sisters Eliza R. Snow and
E. S. Taylor, of this city attended.

	VOLUME TEN of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
commences with this number. We recommend
to our agents throughout the country to make an
effort to collect subscriptions dne, and also to use
their utmost influence to promote the circulation
of the woman's paper, by seeking to impress up-
on the sisters the necessity of speaking for them-
selves and defending their position from the on-
slau[---] [--] [---] who so basely misrepresent
their social rela[--]s. There is every reason to


believe that during the nine years since the pa-
per was established, much good has already been
done and much more remains to be done by
means of woman's pen.

	Sister Armella C. Bigler, of Nephi, sends us
items of a surprise party given there on the 10th
of May, in honor of Sister Ellen Miller, Presi-
dent of the Teachers. The Teachers of the
Ward went supplied with good things, and with
their smiling faces and merry hearts sought to
cheer her loneliness, as her husband is away up-
on a mission. After the supper was over, Sister
Miller expressed herself exceedingly grateful for
the good feelings shown to her, and blessed the
Teachers who were associated with her in her
labors, and related some very interesting inci-
dents from her early experience in the Church.
Several sisters bore their testimony, expressing
her love and esteem for Sister Miller, for her
faithful labors in the Relief Society, in the Pri-
mary Association and in the Sabbath School.
There were songs, recitations and toasts, and the
company dismissed with singing and prayer.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	UTAH COUNTY.—The total number of names
enrolled for the Utah County Primary Associa-
tion, and deposited in the Jubilee Box, are two
thousand two hundred and forty-seven. Twen-
ty-four Associations in this county are in a flour-
ishing condition, and are thus represented.
					NETTIE SOUTHWORTH,
								Secretary.

	THE Conference of R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. and P.
A. of Salt Lake Stake, will be held on the 17th and
18th insts., in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms.
The presidents and officers of all the branches of
these organizations in the County are earnestly
soliclted to be present, as also all the members
and others who can attend. The Presidency of
the Stake and Bishops are cordially invited to be
present. Secretaries should send in their reports
as early in June as possible.

	MR. and Mrs. A. J. Boyer, both newspaper
correspondents from San Francisco, are spending
a few days in this city. Mrs. Boyer for four orfive years edited the "Golden Dawn," a very
able magazine, devoted to woman's work. She
is best known by her nom de plume, "Dora
Darmoore." The lady is a talented writer of both
prose and poetry. The lady is on her way to
visit friends in the East. We wish them a
pleasant sojourn in the City of the Saints.

	ON Sunday afternoon, May 22nd, a
Primary Association was organized in Big Cot-
tonwood Ward. Bishop and Counselors were
present, also Sister Elizabeth Howard, presi-
dent of the Relief Society of the Ward, and Sis-
ters E. R. S. Smith and E. B. Wells, of Salt
Lake City. Bishop Brinton selected the officers
and Sister Eliza organized. Esther H. Davis,
President; Mary Nielsen and Mary W. Brinton,
Counselors; Mary Sutherland, Secretary; Brana-
ham B. Bitner, Assistant Secretary; Louise
Brockbank, Treasurer. Ninety-six names en-
rolled.

	TUESDAY, May 17, a Primary Association was
organized in the 21st Ward, Bishop Burt and
Counselors being in attendance. A large num-
ber of the leading sisters were present and much
good instruction was given to the children and
parents on the training of the little folks. Sister
Eliza R. S Smith effected the organization:
Bishop Burt making the selection of officers.
Mary Davis, President; Elizabeth Gange and
Mary Ann Higham, Counselors; Fusion Smith,
Secretary; Alice Steers, Assistant Secretary;
Arthur Castleton, Treasurer. One hundred and
thirty names were enrolled.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 5


A REORGANIZATION of the Primary Associa-
tion of South Cottonwood was effected on Mon-
day, May 24th, the former President, Mrs. Mar-
tha G. Young, having resigned, on account of
leaving the Ward. Mrs. Young has labored dil-
igently in the position, and been very successful
in bringing the children forward. Bishop Raw-
lins selected as her successor, Mrs. Elizabeth
Davis, President, and a complete new board of
officers. Mrs. Ellen C. S. Clawson organized.
The meeting was an interesting one. Much
good instruction was given by Sister E. R. S.
Smith and other sisters. The Bishop made a
few closing remarks.

	THE Old Folks' Excursion this year will take
place on the 22nd of June, the birthday of the
veteran, Bishop Edward Hunter. On that day
this illustrious father in Israel will be 88
years old. It has been decided that the excur-
sion go to Ogden, which seems to offer better fa-
cilities for enjoyment than any other place. Bro.
C. R. Savage, who is on the committee, tells us
they will take in old folks by the way at all the
stations on the route, and that the party will be
lemonaded and serenaded. One must feel sure
of the success as far as arrangements for en-
joyment is concerned, knowing the committee
to be Bishop Edward Hunter, George Goddard
and C. R. Savage. Particulars will be given in
full in due time.

	ON Wednesday afternoon, May 24, Mrs. R. B.
Pratt, M. D., delivered a most interesting and
instructive lecture in the Social Hall, exclusive-
ly to ladies, for the benefit of a sister who is
about to graduate at Ann Arbor, Mich. Mrs.
Pratt is a pleasing speaker and her manner of
delivery is easy. The lecture was indeed mul-
tum in parvo, but we regret to say it was not
very well attended. The subjects of hygiene and
physiology of the human system must be more
generally understood ere that progress can be
made in race and condition which is expected
will be the result of a higher education. The
young ladies and mothers would do well to de-
vote some time and means to acquire knowledge
upon these subjects and not leave it to the phy-
 sicians alone. It is an imperative duty that every
woman should know something concerning the
forces and attributes of her own being. Towards
the close of the lecture the Dr. laid before the
audience some plain facts substantiating physi-
ologically the system of plural marriage, from
which we will make a few extracts in our next
issue.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.

APRIL CONFERENCE, 1881.

	[The Relief Society report was read and ac-
cepted as follows:]
	Officers of the Relief Society central organiza-
tion Eliza R. Snow Smith, President; Zina D.
Young and Elizabeth Ann Whitney, Counselors;
Sarah M. Kimball, Secretary; M. Isabella Horne,
Treasurer.
	Stake Presidents who have sent in their er-
ports: Bear Lake, Julia P. Linsey; Davis, Sarah
Holmes; Juab, Amelia Goldsburgh; Kanab,
Elizabeth Nuttall; Millard, Belinda M. Pratt;
Morgan, Lydia Rich; Parowan, Ellen W. Lunt;
Salt Lake, M. Isabella Horne; St. George,
Minerva W. Snow; Summit, Sarah S. Richards;
Tooele, Mary Ann Hunter; Utah, Margaret T.
Smoot: Weber, Jane S. Richards; Sevier, Eliza-
beth Bean; Box Elder, Harriet A. Snow.
	The following organized Stakes not reported:
Beaver, Cache, Wasatch, Arizona, Little
Colorado and Eastern Arizona.
	Total of teachers, 1,530; members, 9,650; of-
ficers and members, 12,288; meetings held, 1,532;
average attendence, 3,834.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT taken, 960.
	On hand at date of last report: Cash, $3,342.21;
property, $24,099.23; wheat, 9,859 bushels.
	RECEIPTS—In cash, $3,279 28; in property,
$3,513.20; in wheat 670 bushels.
	DISBURSEMENTS—To the poor, $3,468.31; emi-
gration, $210.43; temples, $1,214.11; home in-
dustries, $689.97; books, 143.13; missionary, $98.
70, buildings, $1,617.47; Indians $66. 45.
	Totals on hand in cash, property and wheat,
$36,822.24.
	President Cannon passed a high encomium on
the neat and comprehensive report the ladies
had presented, and also on the labors that the
sisters have so zealously performed, and consid-
ered there can be no one at all acquainted with
the good being accomplished by them but must
highly appreciate them.


AT REST.

	Another faithful Saint has been called from
this world of care and sorrow to share in the joy,
blessings, and enjoy the society of the just made
perfect by suffering. On the 18th of May, at
her residence in the 4th Ward, Provo, Mrs.
Hannah Booth, wife of Bishop J. E. Booth, and
daughter of George P. and Edith Billings, after
an illness of three weeks, passed away from
earth to her eternal home. The funeral services
were conducted at the Provo meeting house,
May 20th. Mrs. Booth was born March 12, 1852,
in Provo. Sister Hannah will be missed from
the ranks of those who are patiently striving to
labor for the advancement of God's kingdom on
the earth. She held the dual offices of Counsel-
or to the Y. L. M. I. A. and President of the 4th
Ward Primary Association for several years.
During the past year she has faithfully discharg-
ed the duties of a school teacher in the Ward.
She accepted the position as she did all other re-
sponsibilities, from a sense of duty, discharging
them faithfully and humbly. That her labors were
appreciated, was made manifest by the loving
attentions of friends, and the groups of anxious
little faces which came during her illness to en-
quire how their dear teacher was. Truly has it
been said of her, "She served the Lord in sober-
ness and purity," and was a true, devoted, loving
wife and friend; her faithfulness can only be ap-
preciated now that she is beyond all earthly cures.
O, what a satisfaction it is when we see a
Saint go to rest, surrounded by husband, parents,
relatives and friends, who watch the departing
spirit with the knowledge that "the loved one"
has lived to merit all the blessings which mor-
tals are entitled to, who have lived in accordance
with all of the commandments given to the
Saints. Never was the divine principle of Ce-
lestial Marriage more honored than by Sister
Hannah.
	She sang the hymn, "I'll praise my Maker
while I've breath," a few moments before she
died, her countenance revealing the bliss her
spirit had caught a glimpse of. All outward
emotions were suppressed, for we knew we stood
in the holy presence of angels who had come to
bear to her heavenly home the celestial spirit of
our beloved Hannah.
								A FRIEND.

	Whereas, By the dispensation of Providence,
Sister Hannah T. Booth, the First Counselor of
the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associ-
ation, of the Fourth Ward, Provo; daughter of
Edith and George Billings, and wife of our be-
loved Bishop, John E. Booth, has been called
from our midst by death; and,—
	Whereas, we realize that the labors of our
beloved sister, in our association, have always
tended to set us a praisworthy example to
strengthen us in our faith, and lead us in the
path of truth, virtue and eternal life.


Be it Resolved, That we, the young ladies of
this Association, mingle in sympathy our sor-
rows with the bereaved husband, parents and
family of our dear departed sister, and express
our united prayer and sincere hope, that the
Lord, in his mercy, will comfort them by re-
doubled blessings of His holy spirit, and
	Be it further Resolved,. That a copy of these
resolutions be furnished the husband and par-
ents, be published in the Enquirer, WOMAN'S
EXPONENT and spread on the records of the As-
sociation.
				EMILY G. CLUFF, Pret.
				OTTILIE MAESER, Sec'y.


OBITUARIES.

	DIED: in Evanston, Wyoming Territory, April
13th, 1881, of heart disease, Mary Ann Schopp,
daughter of Thomas and Ann Hewitt, and wife
of Phillip Schopp, born Febuary 4th 1827, at
Sutter Leasdel, Derby, England. Baptized July
14th, 1849. Was the mother of 11 children 8 of
whom are now living: deceased was a faithful
member of the Relief Society and died a true
Latter-day Saint. 

	DIED: in Evanston Wyoming Territory, May
8th, 1881, of Paralysis, Sarah Whittle aged 74
years one month and 11 days; she emigrated
from Botton Lancashire, England, September
13th, 1876. Sister Whittle died in full hope of a
glorious resurrection; was a faithful teacher of
the Relief Society of the Evanston Ward, was
always found in the path where duty called her,
and when the message from the Master came,
she was ready with her lamp trimmed and
burning.
		MRS. H. BURTON President R. S.
		MRS. MAUD BURTON, Secretary.
				Millenial Star please copy.


CHILDREN'S FAIR.

	Editor Exponent:—In reading a notice in your
last paper of a Children's Fair, which is in con-
templation, to be held in Salt Lake City this
coming fall, also of one that was held in Farm-
ington last June, 1880, I felt prompted to write
and correct a wrong impression as to where the
first fair was held. Mrs. Ann Dustin, President
of the the Primary Association of East Bounti-
ful, was the originator of the idea, and the first
CHILDREN'S FAIR was held in that place a few
days previous to the one in Farmington.
Through some mistake no visitors were there
from Salt Lake City, therefore no mention was
made of it.					A. S. ROGERS.


ANNIVERSARY.

	The Primary Association of the 10th Ward
held its second annual meeting on Friday. May
20th commencing at one o'clock, in the Ward
meeting house, Mrs. Jennie McLean presiding.
Bishop Adam Spiers and Counselor James
Woods were present, also many brethren and
sisters of the Ward. There were many visitors
on the platform—Sisters E. R. S. Smith, B. W.Smith, S. M. Kimball, M. I. Horne, M. P.
Young, E. S. Taylor, Agnes Park, Mary Gray,
Louie Felt, E. C. S. Clawson, and E. B. Wells,
also Pres. George Teasdale, of Nephi. The
meeting opened with singing, "Open the door
for the children." Prayer by Mrs. E. B. Wells,
Singing, "Dare to do right." The children re-
cited in concert the "Articles of Faith;" Birdie
Paul and Hannah Sanders sang "Jesus loves
me;" Theodore Nistrom recited the "Ten com-
mandments;" children sang "Nay, speak no
ill;" Oscar Nistrom [---] the "Lord's Pray-
er;" Mandie Paul, recitation: dialogue by six
little girls; Brigham [---] "I'll never use to-
bacco;" Edith Braby, recitation; Arthur
Woods; solo; Phil[---] Woods and two other girls
sung and played an accompaniment; children
sang, "Joseph Smith's first prayer;" Joseph
Pool and Alma Strong sang; Willie Harry, reci-
tation; Lottie Paul, song composed for the occa-
sion:


6	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


We are little, I know, but that's no reason why
	We cannot enjoy ourselves here,
And if we are good, and serve God as we should,
	Then we will have nothing to fear.

We love our dear meetings, our President too,
	And pray for her every day,
That long she may live, good counsel to give,
	That none of us here go astray.

*		*		*		*		*		*

	Arthur Woods, recitation; Rosa Bonquist, re-
citation; Mabel Park recited, with the peculiar
Scotch accent, "Noo barnies, cuddle doon;" Eli-
zabeth Braby, "Word of Wisdom;" Edgar Spiers,
four years old recited, "Stop, stop that rain
till I go out to play."
	Sister Eliza and other ladies addressed the child-
ren upon faith, virtue, prayer and other subjects
of importance and commended them for the
good order they had observed, and also for ren-
dering their respective parts so creditably to
themselves and those who presided over them.
	President Teasdale in a pleasing manner made
a few interesting remarks, and sung a hymn,
previously requesting the children to join in the
chorus, "Let the Saints prepare to meet Him."
Bishop Speirs made appropriate remarks, also
Miss Edmunds one of the Counselers: sang
"Praise God from whom all blessings flow."
Benediction by Counselor James Woods.
	During the exercises Mrs. E. B. Wells was
presented with a vase of delicate white wax
flowers,—gracefully entwined around a cross—
blue-bells, morning glories, calla lily, pond
lily, heliotrope, ivy etc., all exquisitely artistic
in design and very beautiful in workmanship.
Miss Blanche W. Woods delivered the following
address, in a very happy manner:
	SISTER E. B. WELLS, in behalf of the 10th
Ward Primary Association permit me to say
that we remember with pleasure that two years
ago the 15th of this month, we were honored
with your presence in this house, at which time
you organized the children of this ward into a
Primary Association, with Sister Jennie McLean
as President and Sisters Edmunds and Speirs as
Counselors, since that time we have held meet-
ings regularly, and have been greatly blessed,
and though as children we have been at times
a little wayward, yet we hope that under the
wise and prudent counsel of our president, and
the excercise of a great deal of patience on her
part, we have made some improvement in our
manners, in our habits, and that our faith in
God our Father has increased, and that we are
better able to understand the gospel of His Son,
Jesus Christ.
	We feel assured, therefore, that your labors
have not been in vain, and we pray for you that
you may live long upon the earth, that your
valuable services in the defence of truth and
right may thus be continued, and that you may
have joy in your labors, for we know that you
will ever be remembered in the hearts of the
children of the Latter-day Saints in the Tenth
Ward, and that many in the future will rise up
and call you blessed.
	We now, therefore, ask you to accept this
slight token of our regard, as a memento to
which you may in the future refer and know
that you are remembered by the Primary Asso-
ciation of the Tenth Ward.
	The president, Mrs. McLean, was presented
with a handsome motto, "Praise God from whom
all blessings flow," etc., wrought with silk and
beautifully framed, made and given by Miss
Lydia Bullough.


PRIMARY ASSOCIATION.

	The following notice will show what Primary
children can do for Zion.
	On the 23d of April, 1881, the Primary Asso-
ciation of East Bauntiful held their second an-
nual meeting. The children met at half past
one o'clock. After the opening exercises the
time was taken up by the children. Songs were
sung, recitations given, also select reading and
dialogues. Brother Anson Call then addressed
the children and gave them some very good
counsel and expressed himself very much pleas-
ed with the proceedings. A few of the parents
were present. After the meeting closed Presi-
dent Ann Dustin, with her assistants passed
round refreshments to the children, oranges,
candy, cakes, etc., all partook cheerfully and
were well satisfied and left the tabernacle much
pleased. 
	On the 16th of March previous the Primary
Association gave an entertainment in the


tabernacle, the proceeds, $22,30 was donated for
the benefit of the missionaries.
			MISS SARAH H. STODDARD, Sec'y.


[Column 1]
LIFE INCIDENTS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

[CONCLUDED.]

	There are no doubt many still living who
remember the perilous times in Kirtland. I
can recollect a time when it was unsafe for a
woman or child to be found alone on the street
after sundown, and when the graves had to be
closely guarded or they were robbed by students
who came from Willoughby, and thought it no
sacrilege to dissect a "Mormon" dead or alive.
To illustrate, I will relate one or two incidents.
A young girl named Rhoda Ballard (who was
living in the family of Bishop N. K. Whitney,
and was afterwards married to his brother Ly-
man) started near sundown to go to her Aunt's
who lived on the opposite side of the river that
runs through Kirtland, there was a foot bridge
across it; but just as she came to it two young
men riding in a buggy stopped and invited
her to ride across which she declined, they then
urged her and she was about to accept when
the horses commenced rearing and being fright-
ened she started to run when one of them who
had got out to help her in tried to put a plaster
over her mouth, but missing his aim, her
screams were heard by a man near by who
came to her rescue; when the fiends saw him
they dropped her and drove swiftly across the
river towards Willoughby. This is no fiction,
as the following will also be remembered by
many, more especially by members of Ezekiel
Johnson's family who were then living near
neighbors to us under the hill as we came
down from Chagrin southeast of Kirtland.
Several of them died from consumption and
were buried on the hill near their house, they
had to be guarded and I was informed that for
weeks they were in the habit of tying a strong
rope to a bier, which was turned over the grave
and the other end to the arm of some one who
slept up stairs; for each one who died, this
course was pursued; three or four of that family
are now living in the southern part of this
Territory.
	One of their sisters that died had beeu our
teacher in Sunday School which she kept at
their house. We were in the habit of reciting
portions or whole chapters to her from the
New Testament and how delighted we felt
when she presented us with pretty little Prim-
ers containing "Babes in the Woods," "Robin
Hood" etc., etc. The mention of this brings to
mind so many sweet remembrances of "the
long ago" when life and all was new and bright
and fair.

"And all was sunshine in each little breast."
'Twas there we chased the slipper by the sound;
And turned the blindfold hero round and round.
'Twas here at eve, we form'd our fairy ring,
And fancy fluttered on her wildest wing,
Giants and genii chain'd each wondering car,
And orphan sorrows drew the ready tear.
Oft with the babe we wander'd in the wood,
Or view'd the forest-feasts of Robin Hood:
Oft fancy led at midnight's fearful hour,
With startling step we scaled the lonely tower;
O'er infant innocence to hang and weep,
Murder'd by rufian hands when smiling in its sleep."

"Lull'd in the countless chambers of the brain,
Our thoughts are link'd by many a hidden chain.
Awake but one, and lo, what myriads rise!
Each stamps its image as the other flies.
Each as the various avenues of sens[--]
Delight or sorrow to the soul dispense,
Brightens or fades yet all with magic art,
Control the latent fibres of the heart."
		Roger's Pleasures of memory.
	These lines from that beautiful little Poem
are so expressive and they remind us of our

[Column 2]
own infant years. Dear are the memories of
childhood of the old familiar faces and scenes
that we loved so well, but all, all are gone from
our sight, and should not this remind us that
"life is but a span?" Then let us see that we are
walking in the straight and narrow path that
when our journey is ended, we will not feel
ashamed to meet our Maker.
	On the 13th, of June at nine A. M., my
father and brethren bade adieu to their famil-
ies and friends in Kirtland and started without
purse or scrip to preach the Gospel in a foreign
land, the first Elders to Great Britain. My
mother and children with a number of brethren
and sisters accompanied them to Fairport.
Sister Mary Fielding, who afterwards became
the wife of Hyrum Smith, gave my father five
dollars with which he paid the passage of him-
self and Brother Hyde to Buffalo. If I rem-
ember rightly she lived with my mother from
that time until married to Brother Hyrum.
	The following is the preface to a pamphlet
published by Robert B. Thompson giving an
account of my father's first mission to Great
Britain and the commencement of the work of
the Lord in that land.
	"It is well known to the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints as well as to the
community in general; that the labors of the
Elders have not been confined to this conti-
nent, but that the sound of the Gospel of Jesus
Christ has been heard upon the Islands of the
Sea; and in Great Britain numbers have heard
and rejoiced in the same. Some communica-
tions have been published by the Elders who
have visited that land, which were read with
deep interest by the Saints, who were informed
in the last number of the "Elders Journal,"
published in Far West, Missouri; that I in-
tended to publish a pamphlet giving a detail of
all the principal transactions of the Elders.
while in England; which publication was ar-
dently desired by the Church, and more par-
ticularly by those who had formerly dwelt, and
whose friends yet resided there. But on ac-
count of the unparalleled persecution which has
taken place, and the scattered condition of the
Saints, the publication of the same has been
delayed. Although the Saints have endured
great afflictions, and suffered many things yet
their desire for the prosperity of the cause of
truth and righteousness, is not abated; and their
anxiety to hear of the labors of the servants of
the Lord in a distant nation is probably greater
than ever. A belief that the persual of the
Journal of Elder Kimball would be a source
of comfort to the Saints, and a cause of rejoic-
ing to those who have had to drink of the cup
of sorrow and affliction, and likewise a source
of information and instruction to the Saints
generally, has induced me to publish the same
to the world. The generality of the Saints are
acquainted with Elder Kimball, whose labor of
love and humility is known by all who have
had the pleasure of his acquaintance: while
his uniform conduct and humility since he has
been a member of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, while engaged in different
offices, and in circumstances the most trying
and painful, render it superfluous for me to
attempt to pass any eulogium on his character,
and speak louder than volumes in his praise.
My acquaiutance with him commenced in the
spring of 1837. Feeling a deep interest in the
mission about to be taken to my native country,
I cultivated an acquaintance with all those who
were going there; and it was no small gratifica-
tion to me when I learned that Brother Kim-
ball was to have the superintendence of that
mission. The day appointed for the departure
of the Elders to England having arrived, I
stept into the house of Brother Kimball to
ascertain when he would start, as I expected to
acompany him two or three hundred miles; in-
tending to spend my labors in Canada that sea-
son. The door being partly open, I entered.


[Column 1]
and felt struck with the sight which presented
itself to my view. I would have retired, think-
ing I was intruding, but I felt rivetted to the
spot: The father who was appointed to super-
intend the mission to England, was pouring out
his soul to that,

"God who rules on high,
	Who all the earth surveys;
That rides upon the stormy sky
	And calms the roaring seas."

that he would grant him a prosperous voyage
across the mighty ocean, and make him useful
wherever his lot should be cast, and that He
who "careth for sparrows" and "feedeth the
young ravens when they cry," would supply
the wants of his wife and little ones in his
absence. He then, like the Patriarchs, and by
virtue of his office, laid his hands upon them
individually, leaving a father's blessing upon
and commending them to the care and
protection of God, while he should be engaged
preaching the Gospel in a foreign land. While
thus engaged, his voice was almost lost in the
sobs of those around who tried in vain to sup-
press them. The idea of being separated from
their protector and father for so long a time
was indeed painful. He proceeded, but his
heart was too much affected to do so regularly;
his emotions were great, and he was obliged to
stop at intervals, while the big tears rolled
down his cheeks, an index to the feelings which
reigned in his bosom. My heart was not stout
enough to refrain, in spite of myself I wept, and
mingled my tears with theirs; at the same time
I felt thankful that I had the privilege of con-
templating such a scene.
	I realized that nothing could induce that man
to tear himself from so affectionate a family
group, from his partner and children, who are
so dear to him—nothing but a sense of duty
and love to God, and attachment to his cause,
I prayed that the Lord would bless the labors
of his servant, give him a prosperous voyage,
make him a blessing in my native land, by
bringing many into the kingdom of Christ; that
He would be merciful to his family, and when
it was wisdom in God that he should return,
that he might be brought home in safety, and
rejoice with his beloved family in recounting
the mercies of the Lord. This the Lord has
done in a remarkable manner, and few, if any,
have been as successful as Brother Kimball.
Yet we do not find him boasting in his own
strength; no, he knows it is the Lord's doings,
and that he was only an instrument in his
hands, notwithstanding the great success which
has attended the labors of this servant of the
Lord, the same humility characterizes him, for
which he has been so frequently admired.
The Elders of Israel would do well to copy his
example, and I hope they will receive some
instructions from a perusal of this work par-
ticularly those who may visit Great Britain.
One great cause of his usefulness was, that he
attended closely to the commandments of
heaven, and preached the Gospel in its simplicity
and plainness; without meddling with abstruse
and dark passages, which are only a source of
speculation and tend to strife rather then sal-
vation. It undoubtedly would be pleasing to
the Elders who returned from distant lands to
find their families enjoying the blessing of
peace; but this was denied our brother; for
after a hard and laborious mission, enduring
great fatigue in traveling, and his body reduced
by sickness, he in common with the Saints had
to be driven from his home and be subject to
all the hardships and trials consequent on a re-
moval in the depth of winter from the state of
Missouri. Yet none of these things moved him,
for no sooner was his family in a place of safety
and amongst the Saints, than he prepared for
another mission, and with the Twelve Apostles,
excepting Lyman, Wight, John C. Page and
William Smith, takes his journey to the scenes
of his former labors.

[Column 2]
	The success which has attended the ministry
of the Elders in England and Scotland, is cer-
tainly encouraging and hardly has its parallel
in the history of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints. Although it has been
principally received by the poor, who have
flocked to hear the tidings of salvation, yet
there are some men of wealth and influence,
who have embraced the Gospel with all their
hearts, and who rejoice in its precious truths.
The information received from the Twelve and
Elders who are now in that land, is of the most
cheering character. A circumstantial account
of which will be found in the Journal."
	From what has been already accomplished,
the Saints can look forward with assurance that
the purposes of the Almighty will be accom-
plished, and that the streams of knowledge
shall flow throughout the world, at which every
honest heart shall drink and satiate until the
knowledge of the Lord shall cover the earth,
as the waters cover the deep.

When at first the work began,
	Small and feeble was its day;
Now the word doth sweetly run,
	Now it wins its widening way:
More and more it spreads and grows
	Ever mighty to prevail,
Sins strong hold it now o'erthrows,
	Shakes the trembling gates of hell.

					ROBERT B. THOMPSON.

[Column 3]
more choice of it than she of her one sack of
flour; but alas, for the hopes founded on the
perishable things of the world, flour as well as
gold fails us sometimes. She thought for sev-
eral days that something about the house
smelled peculiar; and determined to find out
the meaning; on investigation she found a
mouse in her sack of flour. The smell had
thoroughly impregnated the flour and ren-
dered it unfit for use. She felt the loss severely,
and those who have plenty and waste their
hundreds of pounds yearly would scarcely
sympathize with her, or understand her feel-
ings. It was the staff of life and even money
could not replace it. Minnie owned a small
pony which her uncle had brought her and she
had succeeded by the help of her friends in
holding claim on it when he went away. It
was a great favorite, and she spent many
happy hours on his back galloping over the
hills and enjoying the pure air of her mountain
home. She was a good horse-woman, and
could saddle and care for him as well as any
one, and he was so small, just right for a lady's
pet; but she must part with him, for she could
no longer afford him food, and if turned on the
range he would do her no good and would very
likely be lost. They were in need, and the
paetty pony must be sold. She shed many
tears at parting with him, but necessity is a
stern master and brooks no delay. All was gone
now but the gold watch and jewels her father
had sent her, and she would suffer much before
parting with them. Minnie was pretty and at-
tractive and, young as she was, she had plenty
of opportunities of marrying; but she felt too
childish to entertain such ideas, she scarcely
knew what love was except the love of kindred,
neither did marriage offer any indncement cal-
culated to induce her to accept the conditions.
The young men were poor, and if one could
build him a cabin and get a team, he was
thought to have a good start, and indeed it was
all one could expect in a new country like this. 
The young people married and went to work
together to make a living, as early settlers
must do everywhere. Land was plenty and
they could raise their provisions, and other
things came but slowly: but somehow children
do not wait for that, but come just as fast as if
their coming made no trouble or expense, and
large families are common in such cases living
in a small house, with very few superfluities
in the way of clothing, but although simply
clad healthy, happy and often hungry without
a care or thought for the future. Marriage
under such circumstances was not alluring even
for one with so poor a home, and as Minnie was
not in love she saw no beauty in it. 
	Several kind friends offered to take Mary
under their protecting care and make a suitable
home for her children; but her feelings revolted
at the thought of marrying again under any
circumstances, and she was not at all in the
humor to accept attentions from the other
sex; her heart was too sore over her recent
disappointment.
				To be continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 7


JESSE BURNS,
OR,
WAS IT FATE?

A Sketch of the Exodus from Nauvoo, and the
early Settlement of Utah.

CONTINUED.

	Minnie was then fifteen, proud and sensitive,
and she felt the change deeply, though she
could not comprehend the full meaning of the
situation as Mary did. She felt keenly the
seperation from her father. He had repudiated
them, cast them off, turned them out on the
cold charity of the world, and she would never
see him any more. Day after day those two
poor, lonely hearts sorrowed and wept with each
other. Minnie tried to be brave and comfort
her mother; but in their darkness and weari-
ness there was no comfort but God, no hope
but heaven. There was little time for indulg-
ing their grief, some provision must be made
for the winter. A house must be provided to
live in, which was a difficult thing to get, as
people had not yet built more than their nec-
essities required. They must labor in some
way for a subsistence. Through the summer
she had a few boarders but they had left and
she could not expect any assistance in that
way as boarders were transient and could not
be depended upon. Those who had no homes
of their own, generally hired out for wages and
board, the country being new offered few re-
sources, farming and building were the chief
industries. The women spun and wove and
attended to all the work and the comfort of
their families. Minnie tried to get a situation
as teacher but wherever she applied she was
too late, or thought to be too delicate to manage
a school, as many of the boys, from having no
training in school, having had to herd cattle and
sheep, had become rough and unruly. Failing
in that, there seemed no recourse except a little
sewing from the neighbors, which procured
them a few of the bare necessaries of subsist-
ence.
	They had a sack of flour which they had not
yet opened. It was carefuly reserved for fu-
ture use, and Mary would not open it as long as
they could get any in other ways. She had
learned in years past the value of bread, and
the rich man with his hoarded wealth was not


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

HARRISVILLE.

	On Tuesday May 3rd, 1881, the presidency
of Relief Society, also of Y. L. M. I. A., and
Primaries of this Stake met with the people of
Harrisville Ward in the East School House to
perfect the above named organizations and to
organize a Primary. The Ward being very
large wisdom dictated that for convenience two
Societies should be organized. After perfect-
ing the Y. L. and Relief Society organizations,
Sister Stanford, Counselor to Sister Josephine
West, proceeded to organize a Primary in the


[Column 1]
east part of the Ward with the following
officers.
	Mary E. Taylor, President; Flora Taylor,
and Marie Saunders Counselors; Annie E.
Shirtliff, Secretary; Elizabeth J. Taylor, Treas-
urer. The speakers were Sister Jane Richards
R. S. Pres., of Weber Stake, her Counselors
Sister Brown, and Sister Herrick, Pres. of Y.
L. M. I. A., and Counselor Stanford of the
Primaries. Also Bishop P. S. Taylor, of this
Ward. It was remarked that the organiza-
tion of these Associations were designed to
throw a safe-guard around the young to pre-
serve them from the evil influences and vices of
the age; and to this end it needed the coopera-
tion of mothers, and that the officers should be
efficient women and versatile in their selections
of subjects, so the children might be full of in-
terest. All the speakers were spirited in their
remarks. Sister Richards, spoke at some
length but was specially interesting. 43 mem-
bers were enrolled and more added at a meet-
ing held Saturday last.
				ANNIE E. SHIRTLIFF, Sec'y.
	P. S. The Society in the West part of the
Ward was organized the week previous, when
Apostle F. D. Richards Sister Josephine R.
West and all of the above named sisters were
present.

SAMARIA.

	EDITOR EXPONENT:—The second annual
meeting of the Primary Association of Samaria
was held Friday evening May 6, 1881, in the
meeting house before a large and well filled
audience several of the Priesthood of the Ward
being present; the evening's entertainment con-
sisted of a song by ten little girls entitled
"Jesus once of humble birth" prayer by Bishop
Evans, singing by the children; "Work for the
night is coming," recitations, songs, dialogues,
were then spoken. Five little girls were then
catechised and songs were sung. Essay on Ob-
edience, one song by a boy and some little girls
between three and five years of age, one recita-
tion a boy four years of age. We then had a
song from ten little girls entitled "God speed
the right." My thoughts went back to the
time of the organization and I could see then
that we had made a little progress since; it
is true it seems slow work with the little ones
while laboring with them, but I feel thankful
to the Lord for his Holy Spirit; that enables
us to persevere in this great and important
work, having faith and praying to the Lord for
strength to lead and guide us all; realizing that
the time will come when these associations will
stand forth a great and mighty host battling
for truth, and they petition to God for blessings
on those that organized them and placed them
in a position where they could be taught in the
laws of their Heavenly Father while they were
young that as they grow in years they may be
preserved from outside influences and from
wolves in sheep's clothing who seek to draw, the
young from the fold, and to bring destruction
upon the people of God. Oh, mothers I would
say, assist your children in their organizations
encourage them to attend their meetings, and
also attend them yourselves do not think it too
much trouble they will repay you in the future;
becoming bright and shining lights crowned
with immortality and eternal lives; may our
Heavenly Father bless all that strive to teach
the young and rising generation is the prayer
of your co-laborers.
	Mrs. Amy Davies, President P. A., Mary
Ann Williams, and Annie Camp Counselors,
Agnes E. Bowen, Secretary, Rebecca Morse,
Asst. Sec'y. George Davies, Treasurer.
	Members enrolled 53; average attendance 35;
meetings held during the year 25; testimonies
borne 111; number of books 2; chapters read
from the Bible and Book of Mormon 12; sec-

[Column 2]
tions from the Doctrine and Covenants 8; read-
ings from miscellaneous 17; essays, recitations,
61; songs 6; classes catechised 2; wheat gleaned
5 bushels; home industries, straw braiding,
							A. E. BOWEN.

PRICE WARD WASHINGTON COUNTY.

	The Sisters of this place were organized into
a Relief Society on the 21, of Feb. 1879,
Sisters Minerva Snow, Anna Ivins, and Hannah
Romney, of St. George being present. Sister
Hannah M. Miles, President, Lydia Blair, and
Lenora Gardner, Counselors; Ruth Fawcett,
Secretary; Margaret Andrus, Treasurer. We
have two teachers and 18 members enrolled;
hold our testimony meetings every fast-day.
We are all trying to do the best we can, we are
knitting socks, making quilts, which we donate
to the Manti Temple. We donate monthly
for the P. E. Fund.
	Sisters E. R. Snow Smith and Zina D. Young,
visited us Feb. 5 1881, held meeting at 10, A.
M., which was highly appreciated by all. Met
at 2 P.M. Sister Eliza R. Snow then organized a
Primary Association with 30 members enrolled.
Our meetings are held Saturday afternoons
which are well attended; the children highly
appreciate their meetings and will never forget
those honorable sisters, and if we strictly hearken
to their counsel it will prove a great blessing to
us both here and hereafter.
							RUTH FAWCETT


8	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


"ITS all very fine to have a ready-made rich
man, but may happen he'll be a ready-made
fool; and its no use filling your pocket full of
money if you've got a hole in the corner. I
allays said I'd never marry a man as had got
no brains; for where's the use of a woman hav-
ing brains of her own if she's tackled to a gock
as everybody's laughing at? She might as well
dress herself fine to sit back'ards on a donkey."
—GEORGE ELIOT'S writings.

	AT Madrid, Spain, April 30, the superior
council of education, after a considerably spir-
ited debate of several weeks, decided to admit
women and girls to lectures and degrees of
universities and faculties. Spain has been
looked upon as the very highest type of old
conservatism, but she is in advance of some of
the countries of Europe celebrated for their
learning, in recognizing woman's higher educa-
tion. America, with all her recognition of wo-
man's equality, has not advanced so far as Ma-
drid in making them eligible to degrees.


[Column 1]
﻿ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE on Main St.; Old Consititution Buildings.
RESIDENCE on South Temple Street, between 9th and
10th East Streets.
	Special attention given to Obsterics, Diseases of Children
and Diseases of the THROAT, HEART and LUNGS.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE—Up Stairs In Old Constitution Building.
RESIDENCE—Six Blocks East of Post Office, South side
of street.
☞ Special study has been given to Obstetrics, Diseases of
Women, and DISEASES of the EYE and EAR.

HAVE YOU SEEN THE
NEW VICTOR SEWING MACHINE?
	If not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction. The New Machine
is elegant in appearance and admirable in operation, runs
very easily and without any noise and confusion, although
the rate of speed is very high. Its self-setting and self-
threading shuttle, and absence of springs and cogs, renders
it both simple and durable. Be sure to see it, for its
general advantages will make you its friend.
VICTOR SEWING MACHINE CO., CHICAGO, ILL.
YOUNG BROS. Agent, Salt Lake City.

[Column 2]
PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP.
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
	OFFICE and RESIDENCE over Contributor Office, north of
Z. C. M. I.
	Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children as special-
ities.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
be found in the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Spring and Summer Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING, BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77 & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
[image of dentures]
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:—MAIN ST OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P. O. BOX, 541.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 10.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 15, 1881.	No. 2.


[Column 1]
REMINISCENCES.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

Memory like music, steals upon the ear,
And wraps us in the visions of the past.

Silence oft is eloquence! and while the
Lip moves not, the heart and soul are bowed
In worship at a consecrated shrine,
Composed of admiration and respect.
Memory holding still her mystic reign,
And gathering the Past into her sto[--]
Till, culminating at a point, the door
Of language is unsealed, and tries to tell
The garnered thoughts, long there as relics lain;
Its rosary too is sacred hold, on which
Are daily counted well-remembered,
Scenes and forms, gestures, actions, words and looks,
Making palpable ONE who is not dead,
But passed behind the Veil o'ershadowing
Mortal Vision, mortal touch, or hearing!

June! Yes June, the glorious, regal month,
When earth was strewn with flowers, and the sun.
Shone forth in full effulgence, bright and warm,
And Spring put on her crown and courtly robe—
A robe in all the varied colors gay;
With wreaths of beauteous flowers on her head,
And gems of morning dew studding each one;
In all the rich profusion June displays!
And in her grand and queenly step went forth,
And stretching out her beauteous arms received
Within their [---] hold a baby boy
Just struggling into life! She caught him up,
And printed on his cheek a zephyr kiss;
And said her presence never should depart
From out the atmosphere surrounding him!
Even that the June should be infused
Within his infant soul in coming life!
She'd throw her genial influence around
His earthly path, and smile on him for aye!
His name should indicate immortal youth,
And tho on earth his years should many be,
He still, through all, should be forever YOUNG!
That age should beautify, and not destroy,
That Time should have the power to renovate,
His eye should not be dim, nor hair turn grey,
His mind, illum'd and clear should ever be:
That wives, and children, should from him receive
The patent brand that made them; ever YOUNG!
And that his name should far and wide be great,
Around the circumnavigated globe!
That friends in truth and love, should round him cling,
And even foes should feel the mystic charm,
And serpents, dumb, before the charmer be!
And One, above cadorsed His handmaid's words,
And sealed them with Jehovah's signet ring.

And forth he went upon the earth, and met
A spirit even mightier than his own!
They looked into each other's eyes and saw,
They clasped each other's hand and knew,
That God to them a mission on this earth
Had pre-ordained, and given them to bear
To every nation, every land and clime!
And hence, they laid the rudimental plan,
And carried out the angel's words to them!
And organized Christ's Church on earth,
No more—no, nevermore to be thrown down!
This history all have read—by practise know.
Time rushes on with almost noiseless stream;
And bears us on the bosom of its wave:
Long years have passed—that treasured one is gone!
The June has come and gone, and come again,
And Memory rises from her thousand cells,
And in phantasma brings the past once more
Like Banquo's Ghosts before the peering mind.
And we [--] thought live o'er the times of old,
And [---] the future [---]
And, REVELATION slightly draws the veil,
And Faith, and Hope, and Love we do behold!

[Column 2]
Come forth to bless, and comfort, and sustain
Those left on earth, oft dreaming on the past;
Waiting reunion in the heaven above,
With all those lost on earth—and gone before!
	June 1, 1881.


[Column 1]
CLOSING PARAGRAPH OF LIFE IN-
CIDENTS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	Every promise made to my father concern-
ing himself and family were realized during
his absence. He with his brethren arrived in
Kirtland May 22nd, 1838, having been absent
eleven months and nine days. He says, "I
found my family in good health, and as com-
fortably situated as I could expect; our joy was
mutual. The Saints likewise welcomed us
home, for which I felt thankful to my heavenly
Father.
	But my journey was not yet ended; for soon
after my arrival in Kirtland, I commenced
making preparations to move my family to the
State of Missouri, where brother Joseph and the
greater part of the authorities of the Church,
and almost all the members who had any faith
in Mormonism had already removed. The
cause of their removal to the West was the
persecutions to which they were subject in
Kirtland. Most of the brethren who yet re-
sided there, although very kind and affectionate,
were weak in the faith, in consequence of trials
and temptations. This caused us to grieve ex-
ceedingly and we resolved to cheer them up as
much as we possibly could. We preached in
the House of the Lord a few times, recounted
our travels, and the great success which at-
tended our labors; also the marvellous work
which the Lord had commenced in England;
they began to take courage, their confidence
increased, their faith was strengthened, and
they again realized the blessings of Jehovah."
	"About the first of July I commenced my
journey with my family accompanied by
Elder Orson, Hyde, Erastus Snow and
Winslow Farr, two brothers by the name
of Badger, with their families, and the Widow
Beeman and her two daughters, Artemissa
and Louisa, and Sarah Millekin num-
bering to about forty souls. We took
wagons to Wellsville, on the Ohio river, about
130 miles, then took steamboat to St. Louis,
also from thence to Richmond on the Missouri
river." Before we arrived at St. Louis, we
were nearly all sick from the intense heat of
the weather, and having to drink water from
the muddy Missouri they took every op-
portunity when the boat stopt, to wood up, to
go for clear water, which the boat hands had
warned them against, telling them it would
make us sick. The cabin passengers had ice to
use with it but we were not able to indulge in
the luxury. The boat would often start before
the brethren could get back but when they
came running and shouting with their pails of
water they would go ashore and take them in
and roar with laughter at their ludricous ap-
pearance more especially Brother Hyde who
was very fleshy.
	The water being very low the boat was con-
stantly running upon sandbars which made
the journey very tedious.
	Lyman E. Johnson, Sister Hyde's brother
who had formerly been one of the Twelve
Apostles, was living in Richmond and he or-
dered a dinner at the Hotel for all of his old

[Column 2]
friends, and treated us with every kindness—
Brother Hyde and family remained there sev-
eral days. Wagons were procured there to
take us to Far West, where we arrived on the
25th of July.
	The manners and customs of the Western
people and many things there were quite dif-
ferent from any thing I had ever seen or heard
of. The first peculiarity that I recollect was
when we first landed in the West. Some or-
ange girls came on to the boat and when the
price of them was asked and they began talk-
ing of Bits and Picayunes how we stared, it was
all "Dutch" to us, and we had to get an inter-
preter. We stopt one night on the road from
Riehmond where they had negroes and it was
quite a novelty to hear them call the cows
"Sook Cherry" etc., and see them tote, as they
called it, the pails or tubs of milk on their
heads and also water, a thing I had never seen
before. Pails with bails was something un-
known among them.
	The meeting between my father and the Pro-
phet and others of his brethren was a happy
one some of whom were moved to tears when
they took each other by the hand. Father was
very weak and continued feeble for some time. 
He writes in his Journal.—"Sunday July 29th,
I met Joseph, Sidney and Hyrum. on the pub-
lic Square, as they started for Adam-ondi-
ahman, Joseph repuested me to preach to the
Saints and give them a history of my mission,
saying it would revive their spirits and do them
good, which I did, although I was hardly ableto stand. I related many things respecting my
mission and travels, which were gladly received
by them, whose hearts were cheered by the re-
cital, while many of the Elders were stirred up
to diligence and expressed a great desire to
accompany me when I should return to Eng-
land."
	Having continued longer than I anticipated
I shall now close Life Incidents, but not before
expressing the gratitude I feel for the privilege
of belonging to the unpopular sect called
"Mormons." I never saw the time that I felt
more joyful and more willing to bear the stigmas
which are heaped upon us than I am to-day. 
Jesus and his Apostles and Saints were also
hated, and they suffered a great deal more than
the Latter-day Saints, and were finally des-
troyed from off the earth, but we have no fears
of a similar fate, for we know that God has set
his hand for the second time and that He
will live to fulfil his purposes, and though
hundreds may apostatize and join our enemies,
they will accomplish nothing but their own
ruin, for apostates are looked down upon by
the Gentiles and despised, as traitors always are. 
The wicked only use them as tools to overthrow
the work of the Almighty. It is only those
who are weak in the faith that fear and tremble.
"The wicked flee when no man pursueth," and
they judge the Latter-day Saints by themselves.
The bitterness that is manifested by the world
towards this people is the greatest proof to me
that this is the true Gospel of Jesus Christ. If
my homely description of scenes and incidents
among the Saints prove beneficial to others I
will feel amply rewarded and can say as the
Poet,

"If one soul improve I have not lived in vain."


A WOMAN whose ruling passion is not vanity
is superior to any man of equal capacity.
Lavater.


10	﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
PEN SKETCH OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS
WOMAN.

ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.

				CONTINUED.
	In our last we left Sister Eliza at the Sea of
Galilee with a bunch of hyssop in her hand,
given her by the young Jewess. The next day
some of the party with whom she was travel-
ing went by boat across the Jordan, while she,
with the others, went on horseback to the place
of destination, about two hours' ride along the
seashore, passing the ruins of Magdala, said to
be the place where Mary Magdalene formerly
lived, arriving nearly four hours ahead of those
who went in the boat. Meantime, Sister Eliza
was enjoying the interval gathering shells, or
pebbles, by the seashore. "Here the snow-
crowned Mount Hermon" was in sight, and
the travelers "ascended to the height of five
thousand feet," over rough passes and trails,
rocks smooth as glass in some places; but the
party rode animals trained to keep their foot-
ing. Sister Eliza says though she had to be
all the time on the watch, she was much
amused. Before reaching Damascus, for a long
distance "the way was lined on each side with
grape vines, seemingly well cultivated." The
noise of the dogs in the city of Damascus is
very annoying, and it is said there are forty
thousand of them in the city. Here, on Sun-
day, the Sacrament was administered by the
brethren. Monday President Smith and party
called upon the sub-American Consul, who
treated them with great courtesy, offering each
of them coffee in a tiny cup, as a national
token of friendship, which courtesy obliged
them to accept. The Consular Agent could
converse some in the English language, and is
not a Mahommedan. He enquired ot Pres.
George A. Smith concerning the "Mormon"
faith, and being told they believed in the pa-
triarchal order of marriage, informed him that
the Mahommedans could marry four wives and
buy as many as they pleased. The Turks, he
said, would not allow women to vote as "Mor-
mons" did, it would be "placing them too
nearly on an equality with men."
	"March 19," Sister Eliza says, "we left the
old city of Scriptural celebrity—the scene of
many former striking incidents, particularly
that of the miraculous conversion of Paul, and
having walked on the 'Street called Straight'
(which, judging from the gate leading into it,
was much broader formerly than now), with
its one hundred and fifty thousand inhabitants,
without shedding any tears of regret. Now,
instead of narrow trails, we travel on the
broad, smooth 'diligence road,' through a nar-
row gorge between high, rocky ridges, over-
looking narrow strips of fertility along the
beautiful Abana river, which skirts the almost
perpendicular bluffs for many miles." The
party camped at a little village called Dimas.
Sister Eliza was rather amused the next morn-
ing, while the mules were being packed, to
watch "numerous goat herds starting off to the
mountains, and especially as numbers of the
goats issued from the doors of the houses—the
same doors the men, women and children came
through, and were intermingled as they passed
out. The next day passed through an exten-
sive and fertile valley, cultivated, and seem-
ingly occupied by civilized people, with the
most charming "landscape scenery." The
party camped for the night in full view of "the
celebrated mountains of Lebanon, covered with
snow." This range the lady says instinctively
struck her with admiration and sublime awe.
"I was so captivated with the bold, majestic
scenery of nature exhibited in an interminable
variety of forms, before, behind, all around
me, that many times I stopped my horse, that
I might feast my eyes on the surrounding beau-
ties of nature—the almost uncultivated 'Glory

[Column 2]of Lebanon.' " The road, the lady tells us
was winding and zigzag, and the vegetation,
shrubbery, shade trees and flowers in full bloom
were a marked contrast to the white limestone
that paved the road. All these descriptions of
places by Sister Eliza are exceedingly vivid,
and one may feel, in reading her Book of Trav-
els, almost conveyed to the spot and enjoying
the picture, proving that her power of descrip-
tive delineation is admirable.
	About ten miles before reaching Beyrout,
the road is lined on both sides with fields of
mulberry trees. The city of Beyrout has of
late superseded Damascus in the manufacture
of silk. At this place there was a public dem-
onstration in favor of a German Prince just
entering the city, and it was quite interesting
for the "Mormon" party, who really seemed to
attract the most attention of the two. The
two ladies, Sister Eliza and Miss Clara Little,
daughter of Mayor Little of Salt Lake City,
who was one of the tourists, were called upon
by multitudes of ladies, some of them urging
them to accompany them to their homes. They
called at a few places, and found them, though
very simple homes, very neat.
	On the 22d of March the tourists bade adieu
to tent life, mounted their horses and rode to
the hotel. On the 25th embarked on the
Steamer Mars, of the Austrian Lloyd line, en-
route for Constantinople. Sister Eliza had
been, at her somewhat advanced time of life,
enduring "twenty-nine days of tent life, and
twenty-one of riding on horseback." While
remembering she was in her seventieth year,
one cannot help thinking she was a woman of
fortitude and remarkable powers of endurance.
She arrived at Constantinople on the first of
April. On the way there passed the island of
Cyprus, and had a view of Mount Parnassus,
the ancient site of the Temple of Venus, also
Rhodes Cos and Scio—the last named is now
the scene of devastation frem the recent terri-
ble earthquakes. They also passed Samos, the
birthplace of Pythagoras, and long the resi-
dence of Herodotus. The Steamer anchored
at Smyrna, of Bible celebrity. At Constanti-
nople she visited all the attractions, and they
are numerous; had a fine view of the exterior
of the Sultan's palace, which stands on the
shore of the Bosphorus. This city, it is well
known, is beautified with mosques, domes and
minarets in abundance, and thousands of luxu-
riant, tall cypress trees, it being a Moslem cus-
tom to plant one of these trees at the birth
and death of a child.
	After leaving Constantinople, on deck one
has a full view (on the Asiatic side) of the
immense barracks used for a hospital in the
Crimean war, where Miss Florence Nightingale
made herself famous, world-wide, by her gen-
erous services as a nurse.
	The Steamer cast anchor in front of the
Grecian Piræus, and the party rowed ashore,
then rode five miles to Athens, once the seat of
learning and renown, famous for its past great-
ness. Here Sister Eliza roamed about among
the grand and interesting ruins, and with such
active imaginative powers as she possesses, she
no doubt almost saw this ancient classical seat
of wealth, magnificence and splendor in its
original beauty. On visiting 'Mars Hall' Sis-
ter Eliza might have fancied the Apostle Paul
occupying the position, boldly addressing his
idolatroas hearers, surrounded by the various
brilliant temples dedicated to these heathen
gods of man's device. In Athens the tourists
took tea with Mr. Francis, the American Min-
ister, and his amiable and accomplished wife;
they also met there the American Consul Gen-
eral to Constantinople; all were social and
pleasant. Another celebrity whom the party
had the opportunity of seeing there was George
I, King of Greece, in plain citizen costume.
	From Athens, the tourists went to Trieste,

[Column 3]
Austria, by steamer, thence to Verona, and on
to Munich, in Bavaria.
	At Munich Sister Eliza visited several
schools with Kindergartens for the little ones,
who have in this department the most perfect
training. Munich is the birthplace of Mrs.
Paul A. Schettler of this city, at that time she
was at home on a visit and through the courtesy
and kindmess of her brother Mr. Geirisch who
was in "His Majesty's service and confidence"
the party were assisted in gaining admittance
to places of special interest. They were con-
ducted through the King's Palace and shown
apartments not open to general visitors. Some
of the rooms the lady tells us represented the
sixteenth century, others a later date, and some
of the present style of architecture. In this
Bavarian palace there are magnificent brocaded
window curtains of the most beautiful colors
made wholly of glass. One room had its four
walls hung with portraits of ladies called the
"beauties of Munich." It happened to be a very
favorable time for sight-seeing as prepara-
tions were being made for the wedding of the
Prince of Bavaria and the Princess of Austria
and members of the Austrian Court. On the
afternoon of the 28th, these royal people were
expected and all Munich must see them. It
was judged there were from forty to fifty thous-
and people on the streets and sidewalks, eager
to get a glimpse of the pageantry of royalty.
From Munich the party went to Vienna. Here
Sister Eliza says, "by ascending some four
hundred and twenty steps in the spire of St.
Stephen's Church; we had a magnificent view
of the city and surroundings, including the
unrivaled Palace of the Exposition, or World's
Fair which had just then been opened, though
its arrangements were not nearly completed.


GEORGE ELIOT'S FACE.

	The face was one of a group of four, not all
equally like each other, but all of the same
spiritual family, and with a curious interde-
pendence of likeness. These four are Dante,
Savonaola, Cardinal Newman and herself.
We only know one such other group, and that
consisting of three only. It is that formed of
the traditional head of Christ (the well-known
profile on a coin), Shakespeare, and St. Igna-
tius Loyola. In the group of which George
Eliot was one, there is the same straight wall
of brow; the droop of the powerful nose; mo-
bile lips, touched with strong passion kept reso-
lutely under control; a square jaw, which
would make the face stern were it not counter-
acted by the sweet smile of lips and eye. We
can hardly hope that posterity will ever know
her from likenesses as those who had the honor
of her acquaintance knew her in life. Only
some world's artist could hand her down as
she lived, as Bellini has handed down the doge
whom we all know so well on the walls of the
national gallery. The two or three portraits
that exist, though valuable, give but a very
imperfect presentment. The mere shape of the
head would scarcely be possible to represent it
without giving the idea of disproportion to the
frame, of which no one ever thought for a mo-
ment, when they saw her, although it was a
surprise, when she stood up, to see that, after
all, she was but a little, fragile woman who
bore this weight of brow and brain.—C. Ke-
gan Paul, in Harper's for May.


WOMEN DOCTORS IN OLDEN TIMES.—It is
said there is in the British Museum an illumi-
nated manuscript, bearing the date of 1470,
which illustrates the history of Tobit. One of
the scenes represents a chamber wherein the
old Israelite is lying blind and sick upon his
couch, while his wife Anna sits by the fire pre-
paring medicine for him, with an open book by
her side.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 11


A SONG OF SUMMER.

The summer has come, with its sunshiny hours,
	The fields in their verdure are smiling and gay;
The air is perfumed with the breath of the flow'rs,
	As the soft, wooing breezes in gentleness play.
The violets blossom in low, meadows green,
	And daisies are nodding to us as we pass,
The buttercups, glowing like gold in its sheen,
	Are shining like stars among tangled grass.
Away to the hills for a moment we'll stray,
	Where wild flowers offer their tribute so sweet;
The hedges are blooming along the rough way,
	And red clover blushing under our feet.

Ah! here let us pause, and drink in our fill
	From Nature's clear fountains, so calm and so deep;
Till twilight is hanging o'er valley and hill,
	The world, as it were, enchanting to sleep.
List to the nightingale's song in the wood,
	Waking sweet mem'ries of "love's golden dream;"
The dear ones departed, the tender and good,
	The joys and the sorrows of life are his theme.

Yes, the nightingale's notes, so clear and so high,
	Wake to life all emotion that's ling'ring still;
E'en the fountains of love, we may have thought dry
	To the passion of music, instinctively thrill.
The freshness of June is within us once more,
	We're clasping again the fond and the true;
The present is ours—a bright future before—
	The friendships of life, then let us renew.
Sing on, thou brave songster of fair, rosy June,
	Thy voice has a charm sweet peace to impart;
To the passionate chords of the soul 'tis attune,
	And it strengthens and cheers the weary of heart.

The silvery moon has kissed the warm hills,
	With beauty she's clothing the midsummer night,
But sees her sweet face in the sparkling rills,
	And lingers, embracing the earth with delight.

The charm of the summer, so silent and grand,
	Pervading all nature with consummate skill,
Shows plainly the touch of a great Master-hand,
	Who fashioned the universe unto His will.

And while we adore this infinite power,
	That wakened to life and to motion the earth,
And called into being each bird, tree and flower;
	And gave to creation this exquisite birth—
Oh, when, blessed Father, shall we know the truth,
	The mystery deep that envelops the whole?
Whence cometh this yearning for immortal youth,
	This love for the beautiful, thrilling the soul?
'Tis a heritage, surely, "Our Father" has given,
	Which links us unseen to a happier sphere;
A faint recollection of what was in heaven,
	That clings to us ever while lingering here.
											EMILE.


[Column 1]

D'ISRAELI.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

		"Can that man be dead
	Whose spiritual influence is upon his kind?
	He ever lives in glory, and his speaking dust
	Has more of life than half his breathing moulds."
		L. E. L.
	I feel it would be casting insidious reflections
upon my readers, were I to attempt an apology
for a few more words upon the great man just
departed; bear with me, then, while I give my
pen-ultimate upon this engrossing subject.
	The greatest among the greatest nations of
the earth are speaking with one voice in rich
appreciation of his transcendent abilities and
his pure patriotism; and every pulpit, from
Canon Farar in Westminster Abbey, and
throughout London and the Provinces, and
foreign countries also, have each and all sent
forth the voice of sympathy and eulogy, regret
and commendation of him, who was a Palla-
dium in the Cabinet of England; and sister
nations felt the power and reflection of his
genius! He was ever a devoted servant to his
sovereign and his country, "Sans peur et sans
reproche." He worked through long years of
mental travail, until he had attained the goal
his prophetic eye had seen afar off, even in his
early youth—until he stood at the right hand

[Column 2]

of the sovereign, her acknowledged and appre-
ciated friend and counselor—the restorer of the
nation to the proud rank from which she had
fallen by the false policy of those who had pre-
ceded him. Bismarck, the great, the fastidious, 
the exacting Bismarck, took him into his heart
and gave him in that a loving and eternal
niche. Children loved him, women were his
devoted and efficient friends, and a mighty
galaxy of great, grand men were his brothers
on the stage of action; he had the art of mak-
ing "even his enemies to be at peace" with him.
In his illness and his death only one feeling
was apparent, which was made up of love, ad-
miration, sympathy and regret! When the
curtain fell on the grand actor, the silence of
grief alone spoke the absorbing feeling of all;
every tongue was silent, or spoke only the
words of eulogy and love!
	Does not this tell of nobility of soul? May
not we, as a people, with our boasted superiority
of religion over the world, take a lesson of how
to treat our great and noble dead, whose lives
were spent in our service?
	The Queen and royal family of England
must have risen in the estimation of all think-
ing people, in seeing them become "kith and
kin" in a loving brotherhood and sisterhood
with a mourning nation, showing it forth by
every demonstration of love and respect during
the sickness of the treasured one, and then
reverently following the remains to their hum-
ble resting place, and laying with their own
hands the wreaths of choicest flowers, inscribed
with each one's own handwriting; even the
Queen employed no secretary, but with her
own hand wrote on the card attached to the
wreath she presented words that her own heart
dictated. Such deeds are worthy of all imita-
tion.
	The country and the Queen were desirous
he should rest in Westminster Abbey, but when
the Will was opened it was found expressly or-
dered that he should be interred at his beloved
Hughenden, by the side of his wife, to whom
he had ever been most devotedly attached;
and here it would be apropos to allude to one
ever prominent feature in his character, it is
conspicuous in all his writings; I refer to his
chaste, almost reverent appreciation of woman!
He attributes to her that unseen, unsleeping
influence that makes her a power, often even
behind the throne; and he ever portrays this
power for good, never for evil! and even her
foibles and frivolities he turns to account, in-
corporating them in the Mosaic, and making
them elaborate and beautify it. In no instance
do you ever meet sarcasm or inuendo; he
was also a stauuch advocate for woman suf-
frage.
	It was through his powerful voice and in-
fluence, that the country was redeemed from its
imbecile vandalism in omitting to raise a public
monument to the author of "Childe Harold's
Pilgrimage"—in 1875 Lord Beaconsfield stood
forth as the determined advocate of a public
monument for Lord Byron—it was commenced
forthwith, and the Queen at once offered a site
for it in Hamilton Gardens, which is an enclo-
sure railed in within Hyde Park, London, thus
endorsing the movement and conjointly with
him removing the just reproach of foreigners
in regard to the apparent neglect of Byron's
memory by his own countrymen. And this
reminds us of a long and most eloquent speech
of Mr. Gladstone in the House of Lords, sec-
onding the motion of Earl Granville that an
address be presented to Her Majesty, entreat-
ing her to give directions for a monument to be
erected in Westminster Abbey to the Earl of
Beaconsfield. This address is so admirable it
should be printed in pamphlet form. Sir Staf-
ford Northcote, who responded to it, remarked
regarding it: "We feel that a monument of a
higher character than any that could be carved
in marble has been already erected to Lord

[Column 3]

Beaconsfield in the speech we have heard this
evening! That speech has been nobly ex-
pressed and still more it has been nobly con-
ceived!"

	Here follow a few of the floral testimonials
placed on the coffin of the one so mourned:
	"The Queen had testified her regret and es-
teem in many ways, and among others by send-
ing a wreath of wild flowers, primroses plucked
in the Isle of Wight, and such as he delighted
to see blooming on the grassy banks of Hughen-
den Park. On a card affixed to this wreath
was written, in her Majesty's own handwriting, 
'His favorite flowers; from Osborne, a tribute
of affection and regret from Queen Victoria.'
The wreath was placed on the coffin by Prince
Leopold on behalf of her Majesty. The flow-
ers had been gathered that morning in the
beautiful lawns of Osborne, and the wreath
was sent by special messenger. It seemed
wasteful to condemn these fair and perishable
flowers to fade unseen in the dark vault, and
after the burial they were brought out again
and hung upon the railings of the tomb, where
all the evening throngs of country people col-
lected and had the mournful satisfaction of
contemplating the Queen's last gift to her de-
voted servant. Her Majesty gave also another
wreath, but this one of everlasting flowers and
bay leaves. On the ends of the white satin
bow with which this wreath was tied were a 
few words embroidered in gold—on one, 'From
Queen Victoria;' on the other, 'A mark of
true affection, friendship and regret.' The
Prince of Wales was personally present at the
funeral, and placed with his own hands upon
the coffin two wreaths of white roses and ca-
melias, saying as he did so, 'This is from my-
self, and this from the Princess of Wales.' The
Prince of Wales' wreath bore the inscription,
'From his Royal Highness the Prince of Wales
—a tribute of friendship and affection,' and
the writing was that of his Royal Highness.
The Duke of Connaught, who strode beside his
Royal brothers in the procession, laid also, just
before it started, a wreath upon the coffin from
the Duchess of Connaught, on which a few
violets showed their scented petals, emblemati-
cal of the soul, among white camelias and eu-
charis. It bore the inscription, 'A token of
regret and respect from her Royal Highness
the Duchess of Connaught.' Prince Leopold
offered on his own part a wreath bearing the
words, 'A mark of friendship and respect from
Leopold.' Also upon the coffin there was laid
an immortelle of pure white flowers, inscribed,
'A mark of respect from Beatrice.' Other
wreaths from the royal family were—one which
bore a card on which the words were written, 
'A mark of esteem from her Royal Highness
the Duchess of Cambridge;' a wreath from
Prince and Princess Christian, inscribed, 'A
token of deepest respect, gratitude and affec-
tion from Prince and Princess Christian;' from
the Duke and Duchess of Teck, marked, 'A
last tribute of affection, regret and admiration
from Mary Adelaide.' The Baron von Pawel
Rammingen attended the funeral and brought
a wreath from the Princess Frederica."


THE Khedive of Egypt is interested in the
education of women, and is about to build in
Cairo, at his own expense, a school for the in-
struction of girls of the higher classes.
	"CONKLING and Platt have behaved like two
boys who refused to go to a picnic, becanse
their superiors thought it best for one to hold
the lines and the other the whip. They wanted
to go 'dreadfully,' but wanted worse to be
stubborn." The editor of "The Colorado Ante-
lope" says, "This fight is nothing to us, but we
cannot help thinking that if women ever be-
have as ridiculously, there is one consolation—
men have set us a variety of examples, to say
the least."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELL,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates; Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JUNE 15, 1881.


[Column 1]

WHAT THEY SAY ABOUT UTAH.

	Everybody's talking of Utah! The "Mormon"
question is sorely agitating the public mind.
	The pulpit, the platform and the press are each
pouring forth volumes upon the subject until a
very ocean of bitterness, whose waves run moun-
tain high, seems to have flooded the hearts of
the people. Who is there to pour oil upon the
troubled waters? Who will speak a good word
for those "despised, outcast exiles?" Who dares
open their mouth, or even take up their pen in
defense of a few—a handful of people gathered
into the fastnesses of the Rocky Mountains for
protection against their foes; against the mobs
of a country which invites all nations to its
standard, where waves the glorious flag of liberty.
	Societies are being organized by different re-
ligious bodies, beseeching Congress, and his
Excellency the President of this great common-
wealth, to break down, root up and destroy this
"terribly iniquity," "twin brother of slavery,"
which "so afflicts this great nation." The "Mor-
mons are fast becoming a power in the land,"
ere long they will "creep into the Union," and
"Utah will become a State" and "sanction poly-
gamy." How dreadful it would be in their
eyes, for the "Mormons" to have a spot of earth
to dwell upon in peace; after they had sought
out and cultivated the desert, half-fed and half-
clad, exiled from their home and country,
banished with women and children, to an
unknown, unexplored region, where the Indians
and wild beasts held sole dominion.
	Woman, the "fair sex," whose benevolence
and charity, and whose sympathy for the un-
fortunate has ever been proverbial, are organized
into societies "to protest against the Mormons
and their institutions;" and they send abroad
their Testimonials, their Letters and Circulars,
setting forth the "degraded condition of Mormon
wives and Mormon children." Many who sit by
the hearthstone in their far off homes in igno-
rant innocence of this people, or their affairs, are
horrified to hear these sensational stories of
"Life Among the Mormons;" and all their in-
dignation is aroused to think such
corruption should exist, away off in
Utah, thousands of miles from them, and
they are ready to subscribe to any set of resolu-
tions, got up by those who carry on the crusade,
and to give of their means to help in the endeav-
or to suppress "Mormonism," thinking there-
by to do God service.
	Some of these wiseacres proclaim that "poly-
gamy destroys the home," it "sa[-]s the founda-
tion of social life," the basis of true govern-
ment and of prosperity and happiness. Does
the outside world know much about this? Can
they speak intelligently on this subject? A few
perhaps who are here know something by look-
ing on with jaundiced eyes, but there
are many who are in total darkness in

[Column 2]

regard to the matter. The "Mormons" might
boast if they would, of their happy homes in
the valleys of the mountains. Homes which
their own thrift and industry have created.
Even strangers who have come here prejudiced,
have acknowledged that "a spirit of peace
brooded over the place," such as they never felt
elsewhere. Does this bespeak contention and
strife in the family circle? No, it is due to the 
harmony of social relations and domestic institu-
tions, and the strong band of union which char-
acterizes the whole people, and is the outgrowth
of the very principles which the world condemn.
	Family life after the patriarchal order is
something approaching the sublime. It is
broad, liberal, expansive and gives the same
tone to the inmates of the home circle.
	The ladies engaged in the crusade against po-
lygamy characterize the condition of plural wife-
hood, concubinage, and speak of it, and of them,
to the world in the most reproachful terms pos-
sible. The Scripture says: "By their fruits ye
shall know them." In these mountain vales, 
and through the system of marriage the world
so loudly condemns, there has grown up a race
of the most perfectly developed young men and
women any country can produce. Healthy,
strong and vigorous in mind and body, with a 
knowledge of the principles of life and health,
and of their own mission upon the earth, which
no other class of people in the present day so
thoroughly comprehend.
	The fruits of this method of life will be more
apparent in the next generation than even in
this Social science will yet be glad to deal with
this subject, in the light of reason and common
sense.
	The women who are interested in this great
Latter-day work are laboring earnestly and faith-
fully in an organized capacity, to develop all the
talents which they possess mentally, morally
and spiritually; and to lay the foundation for the
prolongation of human life. They teach and in-
struct each other and their children; and ex-
pound doctrine and precept, and are in the best
sense of the word home missionaries. They are
more very much more sorry for their sisters in
the world, who are seeking to pull down and de-
stroy their institutions, and heap shame and ob-
loquy upon them and their offspring, than it is
possible for them to be for these "poor, deluded
Mormon women," and certainly the "Mormon"
sisters have no desire to injure or persecute
them, but would do them good all the day long,
and have, whenever brought in contact with
them, sought to maintain the most harmonious
relations, and perfect courtesy. In the mean-
time they do protest against the misrepresenta-
tions that are continually being sent abroad con-
cerning their domestic and social relations. The
Latter-day Saint women have no time, nor have
they the inclination to examine into the home
life of their Gentile neighbors, but occasionally,
some of these Gentile ladies, whose lives have
not been wholly free from sorrow, open their
hearts to a "Mormon" woman, perchance a plu-
ral wife, and portray the social system that is
known in Gotham as "modern civilization." It
is ill befitting this class of women to cry out
against "the great ulcer of Polygamy," especial-
ly when it is well known that women in this
Church accept celestial, or plural marriage as a
divine revelation from heaven, given to benfit
and elevate the human family, and receive it in
their hearts and in their lives as a sacred coven-
ant of marriage for time and for all eternity.
"Mormon" women embrace this principle with
the same purity of motive and sincerity of pur-
pose that they do the principle of baptism
for the remission of sins, or baptism for the
dead, or any other principle given to exalt the 
human family.


INEERESTING CONFERENCE.

	The Ladies' Conference of Weber Stake of 
Zion was held in the Tabernacle in Ogden City,
the 9th, 10th, and 11th of June. There was a
most interesting series of meetings, commenc-
ing on Thursday, at 10 o'clock A. M., with the
Relief Society, Mrs. Jane S. Richards presiding. 
The meeting was addressed by Sisters Jane S.
Richards, Hattie Brown, E. R. Snow Smith,
and E. B. Wells; also Apostle F. D. Richards,
Pres. D. H. Peery and Bro. Eggleston. The
Presidents of the various branches of the Relief
Society in Weber Co., made verbal reports,
which were very favorable, and much good in-
struction was given during the day.
	On Friday the Y. L. M. I. A. of Weber Stake
held their Conference, Mrs. Sarah A. Herrick
presiding. The young lady presidents who rep-
resented their respective organizations, evinced
forcibly to every observing mind the rapid prog-
ress which has been made during the last year,
and the benefit, mentally and spiritually, which
will eventually result from these Associations.
Mrs. Sarah Herrick and her Counselors, Mrs.
Emily S. Richards and Mrs. Josephine R. West,
each made a few excellent remarks, in a spirit
calculated to carry conviction to every heart.
Addresses were also made by Sisters E. R. Snow
Smith, E. B. Wells and E. B. Ferguson.
	Saturday the Primary Associations convened
in the Tabernacle, which was well filled, with
the little folks. There were present from Salt
Lake City, Pres. Joseph F. Smith, Eliza R.
Snow Smith and Dr. Ellen R. Ferguson; also
Apostle F. D. Richards, Pres. D. H. Peery and
several Bishops. Mrs. Josephine R. West pre-
siding. Exercises by the children were ably ren-
dered, and the meeting was addressed by Sisters
Jane S. Richards, Eliza R. Snow Smith and
Pres. Joseph F. Smith instructing the children
in a tender and attractive manner. Dr. Fergu-
son also made a few pleasing remarks, and alto-
gether the Conference was an interesting one,
and a season long to be remembered, of which
fuller particulars may be given in our next issue.


[Column 1]

HOME AFFAIRS.

	PRIMARY Blanks for making up reports, for
sale at Deseret News Office.
	"THE Word of Wisdom" essay, by Florence
Ridges, published in our issue June 1, instead of
11th Ward should have re[--] 19th Ward.
	SISTERS B. W. Smith E. Howard and R. R.
Grant attended the Tooele Stake Ladies Confer-
ence held Saturday and Sunday 11th and 12th,
of the present month.
	SISTERS E. B. Snow Smith and Zina D. H. 
Young, are in Brigham City, attending the Con-
ference of Relief Society, and Y. D. M. I. A., and
Primary Associations which occured the 14th and
15th of June, It is expected they will visit the
organizations in towns adjacent previous to re-
turning home.
	THE Clerk of the House of Representatives
has placed the name of Hon. George Q. Cannon
upon the roll of that House, notwithstanding
all his enemies have done to oppose it. The
women of Utah, as well as the men, [---] cast
their votes for the Delegate of their choice, will
rejoice that one important step has been gained
in favor of the man elected by the people.
	WE hope the following will stimulate the peo-
ple of Utah to setting out mulberry trees and
raising cocoons. We are pleased to be able to
state that a large quantity of home-made silk,
suitable for netting, etc,, it now ready and for
sale, as per advertisement in our columns. The
silk is the natural color, but will make beautiful


[Column 1]

ties, mitts, gloves and other useful articles, and
will wash and wear even better than the col-
ored material.
	THE Sisters Conference of this Stake of Zion
will be held this week commencing on the 17th,
at 10 o'clock A. M., in the 14th, Ward Assembly
Rooms. The next day 18th, will be devoted to
the Primary Association in the morning and in
the afternoon to the Y.  L. M. I. A., and it is
expected will be held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall. Bishops, parents and all those who are
interested in the work of these organizatrons are
cordially invited to attend these gatherings.
	THE Old Folks' Excursion, according to previ-
ous notice, will take place on the 22nd anniver-
sary of Bishop Hunter's birthday. The place of
destination will be Farr's Grove, Ogden. The
affair being in the hands of such an efficient
committee cannot fail to be a complete success.
There will be a special choir for the occasion, who
are now practicing so as to be able to cheer and
inspire the old people with some stirring melo-
dies suitable for such an occasion. God bless the
Old Folks and those who respect age and seek
to comfort their lonely years.
	MONDAY May 23d, Sisters Zina D. H. Young
and M. Isabella Horne left this city to attend
the Sisters Conference of Seveir Stake and 
visit the various settlements in the vicinity.
At Gunnison on the way down they held two
meetings witht he Relief Society and Primary
Association. At Salina they held a general
meeting and then went on to Richfield, where
the conference was held the 26th and 27th of
May. They also visited Monroe, Glenwood, El-
sinor, Joseph, Vermillion, and all the other
towns in the county. At each of these
places the sisters held two meetings, and at
Redmund, Sister Zina organized the young la-
dies. In Sevier Stake, the sisters held about 30
meetings. From Sevier Stake the ladies went
on to Sanpete expecting to hold meetings in that
county, but Sister Horne was taken sick and
obliged to return home. An appointment hav-
ing been given out in Manti, Sister Zina filled
the appointment. Sister Horne's health has im-
proved since her return.
	THE second annual meeting of the Primary
Association of West Jordan was held on Tuesday
June 7, in the Ward meeting house at 10 o'clock.
Ther was a very full attendance, of the children
and quite a number of parents. The children
performing their respective parts of the pro-
gramme admirably. There were also several
articles on exibition made by the children which
prove that great interest is being taken in de-
veloping their talent and ability for active use-
fulness. The Association has a very efficient
board of officers. Mrs. Mary Bird President,
Mrs. Maria Goff and Mrs. Mary Ann Turner
Counselors. There were quite a number of ladies
from the city present who were all most hospit-
ably, entertained and feasted with strawberries.
In the afternoon the children had a dancing party
in charge of the ladies of the Primary Associa-
tion and Brother Samuel Bateman, who pre-
served most excellent order with two hundred
children, many of them very young. Refresh-
ments were distributed in the Hall to all present.
Altogether the affair was an enjoyable one.
Bishop Gardner came during the afternoon.
We will publish at another time the programme
of exercises.
	"GEMS for the Young Folks:"the fourth book of
the "Faith Promoting Series," has been recently
ssued from the office of the "Juvenile Instruct-
[-]r." It is quite as interesting as either of the
others, and they are certainly an acquisition to
the libraries of the young people, and indeed to
the Saints old and young. This last book con

[Column 2]

tains the almost marvelous story of Abraham
Kimball, which is every word true, and the half
is not told. We were acquainted with the
mother and grandparents of this young man,
and have always considered that his history was
a grand testimony of the truth of this Latter-
day work, and especially so of Plural Marriage.
His grandfather's confession to him every one
ought to read. The book contains many strong
testimonies to the truth from several traveling
Elders—stories of their missions, trials and per-
secutions. A chapter entitled "Overcoming
Diffidence," by G. Q. C., will be an excellent
lesson for the young people. Altogether the
book is most entertaining. The "Instructor"
Office is doing an excellent work in publishing
suitable reading for the Saints. For sale at the
office of the "Juvenile Instructor" and "Deseret 
News."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARIES.

	DIED: at Littleton, Morgan County, Utah, of
heart disease, May 13, 1881, Harriet [-]ayne, wife
of Elder Joseph Spenblove.
	Deceased was born at Medburne, Leicesterhire, 
England, April 14, 1833. She was baptized into
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
by Wm. Mellows, March 6, 1853, and confirmed
by James Mason. She emigrated with her fam-
ily to Utah in 1865. The same year she came to
Littleton where she resided until her death. On
the 15th of September 1878, she was appointed
President of the Milton Ward Relief Society
over which she presided with dignity, honor, and
credit until the time of her demise.
	The funeral, which was very largely attended,
took place in the Molton meeting house on Sun-
day, May 15th. Addresses were delivered on
the occasion by Bishop Eli Whitear, and many
others, who spoke in the highest terms of com-
mendation of the life, character and usefulness
of the deceased. Sister Spendlove was widely
known, and much beloved by the people of Mor-
gan County. She lived the life of a true Saint,
and died with the sure and certain hope of a re-
surection of eternal life.

	DIED:—In Mormoni, Sanpete Co. April 29 1881.
Sarah Kellet of dropsy. She was born in Ash-
ton Underline Lancashire England 1842. She
was the wife of John Kellet deceased. After an
illness of several months which was borne with
resignation to her Father in Heaven, her faith
in the priesthood being firm and unshaken to
the last. She left four orphan children com-
mending them to the Lord and to the care of
her parents. She was a member of our Relief
Society and when able to attsnd meeting always
bore a strong testimony to the truth of the Gos-
pel of Jesus Christ. She has passed through
many trials for the sake of her religion and
worked hard in order to support her children.
May she rest in peace until she is called forth in
the morning of the first resurrection.
	JANE BAILEY.


AMANDA SMITH.
			[CONTINUED.]
	During the time we lived in Nauvoo, President
Joseph Smith organized a Relief Society.  Sister
Smith became a member of its first organization
and greatly rejoiced in the benevolent
work; much good was accomplished by it. 
The women of our people know how
to sympathize with suffering humanity and "to
weep with those that weep," and are well cal-
culated to minister to the needs of their fellow
creatures temporal and spiritual.  There were
many sick and poor in Nauvoo in consequence
of the mobbings and drivings they had just past
through, ond ague was prevalent all along the
river and indeed inland as well.  So that the
people had the fever and ague to contend against
in the midst of all their other difficulties. 
 The Relief Society did much good work in
many ways although at that time it was a new
thing for a woman to lead out in any public mat-
ter.  President Smith had confidence in wom-
an's ability to performe errands of importance as
the following will prove; in July 1842 it was sug-
gested that some measurs be taken by the Re-
lief Society to interest the Government of Il-
linois in protecting the Prophet Joseph from his
enemies in Missouri; it was decided that a peti-
tion from the Relief Society be presented to
Thomas Carlin Govenor of the State of Illinois
claming his protection as chief magistrate.  The
Governor's residence was in Quincy fifty miles
south of Nauvoo.  President Joseph Smith 
wished the ladies to make the effort themselves,
and himself named the sisters who were to be
the bearers of the petition.  Mrs. Amanda Smith, 
the subject of this biography, was honored by
him as one of the three ladies chosen to fill this
mission.  The petition was signed by every
member of the Relief Society.  The Governor re-
ceived the ladies with "cordiality and polite-
ness,"  assuring them that "the laws and con-
stitution should be his polar star in case of any
difficulty." However it was afterwards ascer-
tained that at that very time he was "secretly
plotting against the rights and safety of Pres.
Smith."  But whatever the result the ladies had
nobly manifested their zeal and courage and the
Prophet appreciated their efforts.  This instance
is worthy of record as it is the first mission of 
the kind undertaken by the women of this
Church.
 "In July 1847 we started from Nauvoo intend-
ing to go with the Saints to the Rocky Moun-
tains, but for the want of sufficient means for
so long a journey we were compelled to stop in
Iowa. We remained until the year 1850 when 
we took up our line of march for Salt Lake City,
arriving on the 18th, of September safe and well.
Shortly after we arrived in this city my husband
who had been for some time dilatory in his
duties; apostatized from the faith and we sep-
arated.  I took the children with me and pro-
vided for myself.  I managed my own affairs
and succeeded by practising industry and econ-
omy in taking care of my family until Alma
grew to manhood; he has been more than a son
to me.  In 1856 my son Alma was called upon a
mission to the Sandwich Islands.  He had been 
married a year or two previous and had already
one son."
	Sister Smith is a woman of exceeding great
faith, she seems to have possessed the gift of
faith in a wonderful degree; her life abounds
with incidents in which the power of God has
been manifested in the healing of the sick.  She
says "I have drank the bitter dregs of the cup of
sorrow and affliction, as well as partaken of the
blessing of an all merciful God.  I have drank
from the fountain of the waters of life freely.  I 
have seen the Lord's power manifest to a great
degree. I have seen the lame leap as an hart,
the eyes of the blind open, and as it were, the 
dead raised to life--all in my own family since I 
have been a member of the Church of Jesus 
Christ.  I have born six children since receiv-
ing the Gospel, and of these five were born
without pain through the power of the priest-
hood of God, and I feel that of all women I have
the greatest reason to rejoice and thank my
Heavenly Father; and I do thank and praise his
holy name for his blessings to me; and I do de-
sire that I may ever be kept faithful unto the end
that I may receive the reward of the just.  I 
will relate one or two occurrences which tran-
spired in my own house showing the power of
faith or healing."
	Willa[--] [---] when about twelve
years old was thrown from a horse and taken up
for dead.  He lay until men ran from a half
mile away to help him, and they carried him
back the half mile, before there was any appear-
ance of life.  By the administration of the Elders
and the power of the holy priesthood he was
brought back to life.  His skull was cracked
and his head very much injured.  For some
days he lay perfectly unconscious, and no one
except those who had faith in the Gospel could
beleive that he could ever be restored to health
and strength."  "When my son Alma was about
two years old he had sore eyes until he was actu-
ally blind, and a film grew over both eyes, 
which destroyed the sight.  This film was re-
moved by the power of God in an instant and no
weakness even was left.  These are only a few
of the numerous instances of the power of God,
which I have witnessed in my own family."
			To be continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CORRESPONDENCE.

SAN JUAN RIVER NEW MEXICO, MAY 27, 1881.

DEAR EXPONENT. It is sometime since I wrote
last and as this is my third place of residence, I
fancy some of our friends will think we are seek-
ing a country to suit us, more than trying to fill
a mission. I will say every move has been ac-
cording to the wishes of those whose authority
we are pleased to acknowledge as the word of the
Lord to us, and I trust we may not forget why
we are here and for what purpose we came.
There are only eight families at preseut located
here, but we hope to be reinforced the coming
fall. Our townsite is less than a mile from the
river and there are ample facilities for making a
thriving settlement. As we have no Relief or-
Improvement Association we will welcome with
joy more settlers so that we may be blest with
such institutions. I for one, think I could ap-
preciate them, being deprived of the same for
nearly four years. We have a day, and Sabbath
School and meeting every Sunday afternoon.
We are located six miles above Bowen's ferry
and ten miles below the town of Farmington. I
understand it is near a hundred miles to the
nearest Mormon settlement. We have a few
Gentile neighbors who patronize our school as it
is the only one near the vicinity. The railroad
is within sixty miles of us, and we hope to be
visited during the summer by some of the Saints
from Utah. We are only a few sisters here but
we take three numbers of the EXPONENT, and
feel as if we could not do without it for any price.
Our husbands enjoy the reading of it quite as
much as we do, though there are some of our
brethren (I am sorry to say) speak of the paper
as if its whole mission was to depreciate men and
place women at the head, while it deplores the
idea of wives being subject to their husbands at
all. To such I would say please read our paper
and you will find you are mistaken. Do not
condemn it simply bacause you have read, or
perhaps heard now and then an article in which
the writer has been somewhat enthusiastic over
"woman's rights." If you refuse to do this but
ignorantly judge of its contents I must say you
are somewhat like the enemies of the Saints in
general who are unwilling to investigate our
doctrines lest they find good in them. In the
above I have no reference to any one in particu-
lar but to all who are not thoroughly acquainted
with the merits of the EXPONENT. If I have
been tiresome please forgive, and remember the
writer is only,
	MARY STUART.


R.S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
		REPORTS.

		LOGAN.

EDITOR EXPONENT:—We have failed to re-
port ourselves to the Exponent in the past,
yet we have not been idlers, and will try in the
future to keep you better posted in regard to
our progress.
Our brethren have recently overlooked and
reorganized the Relief Society of Logan.
Cache Valley Relief Society has now a Stake
President in the person of Libbie Benson and
her Counselors are Sisters Louisa Benson and
Lucy Cardon; Sister Caine Sec’y.
A few days since a pleasing event in the
shape of a surprise party gotten up by sister
Ricks, then President of the first Ward now
Pres. of the Logan Relief Societies, and other
sisters, in honor of our dear Sister Libbie Ben-
son, took place in the Logan Hall. Bishop
Lewis, Brother Thos. Cordon some others and
a (almost) host of ladies were present; an
elegant pic nic was provided. A pretty Au-
tograph Album and a chain for the neck were
presented by Sister Ricks from the sisters of
the first Ward as a small token of esteem.
speeches were short but full of brightness.
  Instructed by Bishop Prestou and his Coun-
selors assisted by the Bishops, Sister Benson
has organized Primaries in some of the wards
in Logan of which you will hear more anon.
I am yours very respectfully,
E. L. Crowther, Ass’t.Sec’y.
RICHMOND.
 Minutes of the Annual Meeting of the Pri-
mary Association held June 1st, 1881. Pres.
H. Brown presiding, singing “Marching to the
Temple,” prayer by Counselor Maria Monson,
singing “Always Cheerful.” Minutes of the
last annual meeting read and aproved, yearly
report read and accepted, after which our pro-
gramme was announced for the occasion, which
consisted, of a choice selection of songs, recita-
tions, select readings, compositions &c. Which
were got up and promptly given, and that won
applause from the parents and all who attended.
It being our late President Young’s Birthday
Sister M. Monson read an article composed for
the occasion, on his faithful labors in leading
his people as did Moses of old.“ The workiwng
bee” was sung by Pres.H. Brown,after which a
very touching piece entitled “My Mother’s last
kiss” was read by Counselor Maggie Thomp-
son, appropriate remarks and instructions were
given by some of the parents. Singing “Never
be late.” Meeting adjourned until June 1st,
1882. Benediction by Pres. Hannah Brown.
	ELIZABETH MERRILL, Asst., Sec’y.
Annual Report of the Primary Association
from June 1st. 1880, to June 1st. 1881.
Amount remaining in treasury from previous
year $3,60; received in donations from members,
$2,48; on proceeds of l quilt,pieced by children,
$3,00. Disbursements, July 22nd, 1880, mat-
erials for making a banner, $1,45; Sept. 9th,
1 blank book 20, cts, Oct. 12th, calico for
quilt, $1,16; Nov. 9th, writing paper, 20.
Total amount received $9,08; total amount
expended, $3,01; total amount remaining in
treasury, $6.07.

ST. JOSEPH, APACHE CO.

EDITOR EXPONENT:—At the request of our
President I write to inform you that we have a
Relief Society organized here with Sister Mary
Richards as President and Sister Jane Allen
and Lois A. Bushman as Counselors. We have
eighteen members all young in experience, but
who endeavor to do what they can to progress
this great and glorious work in which we are
engaged. We meet regularly once a month
ana hold sewing meetings whenever necessary.
We have made several quilts, have at present
$4.15 in the treasury—we live in the Order
and have no poor and a good Spirit prevails in
our midst—our Sunday School and day school
are both well attended. We take the Expon-
ent and appreciate the good instructions it
contains and say success to the Exponent and
to its contributors. Our prospects for the com-
ing season are moderately good.
		Lois A. Bushman.

		HYRUM.

EDITOR EXPONENT—Thinking a line from
Hyrum would not be amiss, we submit our re-
port. We held our Thirteenth Annual meet-
ing on Monday, the 9th ult; On the stand
were Bishop O. N. Liljenquist and Counselors,
Sister Benson, President of Stake, her Coun-
selors and Secretary. Sister C. Liljenquist
presiding. After the usual exercises and read-
ing reports the sisters from Logan addressed
us, and spoke words of encouragement. Said:
“Your reports show that you are united in
ministering to the poor and building temples.”
Exhorted us to continue in well doing.
Bishop Liljenquist gave good counsel on the
subject of obedience to the Priesthood and the
order to be maintained in our organizations.
Counselors G. Unsworth and J. McBride made
a few remarks. Sister Liljenquist exhibited a
fine specimen of reeled silk from Sister J.
Neilson, of Hyrum. The officers were then
elected, after which meeting adjourned. Bene-
diction by Bro. J. C. Thorison.
After meeting the sisters sat down to a boun-
teous repast that was prepared in the Hall.
In the evening a party was given, in which the
young folks joined, the profits to go to emigrate
a poor boy from Denmark.	
Praying for the success of your valuable
paper and for every noble enterprise, we sub-
scribe ourselves,
L. Liljenquist, Pres’t..
N. M. Neilson, Sec’y.


JESSE BURNS,
OR,
WAS IT FATE?

A Sketch of the Exodus from Nauvoo, and the
early Settlement of Utah.

CONTINUED.

	James Wyvil was a man of good standing
well known and respected by all. He had
traveled across the plains in the same company,
and made the acquaintance of Jesse and Mary
under the most trying circumstances. He had
been kind in extending any assistance in his
power to his fellow travelers, and although
having his own team to look after, had found
many opportunities of rendering services to
Captain Burns. Jesse being his Captain in the
traveling organization, He had often admired
Mary's fortitude under trying circumstances,
and considered her one of the noblest and best
of women. He was from Massachusetts and
had a beautiful family; his wife and daughters 
being raised amid the refinements of good so-
ciety. Mary found much happiness in their
company,while they in turn,had extended to her
many courtesies and kindnesses during Jesse’s
long absence. As the time passed he grew to
admire her noble and unselfish principles, and
perhaps he was just a little glad when he
learned that she was finally separated from
Jesse. Be that as it may, he often found op-
portunities of going to enquire after her welfare,
or render her some service which he knew her
lonely situation would cause her to appreciate.
His wife joined him in his kind attention and
Mary and Minnie were often invited to their
house or to attend some social gathering in their
company. At length he proposed taking her
under his protection by making her his wife.
She knew no one she could esteem higher, and
she had been so long deprived of a husband’s
sheltering care and companionship, that it
seemed to her a haven of refuge. She felt that
it was impossible to ask charity of the Bishop
and it seemed her only alternative. She could
not wrong Jesse by doing so, for he had forsaken
her and cast her from him; the law had divid-
ed them and given her an honorable release.
It was not dishonorable to become James
Wyvil's second wife. Such marriages were of
frequent occurrences, and no wife was honored
less because she was not the first wife. She
would have suffered untold miseries, would
have given her life rather than her honor, but
there was no such question at stake. In marry-
ing him she sacrificed no social principle, or
moral standing,yet it was with some misgivings 
she scarcely knew why, that she became James
Wyvil's wife.
	Why is it not given us to foresee the future?
How different we should sometimes plan our
lives: and yet could she have known "what
might have been," she would have been con-
tent, perhaps, to accept her fate as it was
instead of rebeling at her lot. James moved
her to his own home,and was so kind to Minnie
and Nellie that they felt as though he was a
friend indeed to protect and care for them.
"While her father lived Minnie could never
give another that title, but she was ready to
appreciate kindness and give the respect that


was due. Mary felt as if she too had a friend
who would care for her,and provide for her and
her family.
 She had not long enjoyed her tranquility
however, when it was broken up by a letter
from Jesse, calling her every endearing name,
and craving her forgiveness for his haste in
writing under the influence of excitement. He
had just received her letter and learned from
her own hand the reason of her not coming.
His brother had inflamed his mind with jealousy
and in his bitter disappointment he had written
as he did; but all was forgiven with him, and
money sent for her and the children, for he
began to realize that they must surely be in
want.
	Oh Jesse! had you but realized that sooner!
had you reasoned calmly, and trusted her that
was so true to you, that she would have laid
down her life rather than sacrifice her dignity,
or your honor: her who had never spoken to
any other man save in the common courtesy of
friendship; how much might have been spared
to your self, to her and her innocent children.
But Oh! the desparing voice of the heart, when
it echoes the cry, “too late!” How quickly
would the wounded spirit have fled to his ten-
crembrace, and the home ties been gathered
which had so long been parted asunder, but it
was too late, Mary was the wife of another,
her children were taken away from their father,
the home ties were broken and her heart was
ready to break, as it echoed the refrain, too late!
too late! She had taken the fatal step that
could not be retraced. His tender letter had
wiped away all feelings of resentment, and she
could not forget that he was the choice of her
youth, the father of her children. It seemed
to her that if she could lie down and die, it
would be sweeter far than to live and know
that she had taken the fatal step that separated
their lives forever. She forgot the long years
of suffering, the agonized prayers, the angry
letter, the threat of taking her little one from
her which was the cause of her haste. If he
had not said that, she might have waited still;
but even the wild beasts will turn when its
young are taken from it, and the mother-heart
dictated her to defend her child. What could
she do? She could not retrace her steps, She
must hold her life as it was, and walk the way
for she could not turn back. No matter how
weary or heart-sick; no matter how dark the
road, she must travel it, though the thorns
should prick her tender feet, and the light of
her soul be turned to darkness and despair.
She was the wife now of James Wyvil and she
must not chill the fountain of his tenderness,
nor wean his feelings from her by useless re-
grets. She had taken upon herself new obliga-
# tions, and she would be true to her trust Like 
the Spartan youth she must conceal the fox in
her bosom, though it gnaw her vitals. She
wrote to Jesse of what she had done and why
i she had done it. That henceforth their lives
must be apart. The money he had sent should
be saved for his children, and she hoped let
what would transpire, he would not forget
them.
[To be Continued.]


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE NATIONAL SUFFRAGE ASSOCIA-
TION.

	The National Woman Suffrage Association
held its thirteenth annual meeting in Tremont
Temple Boston. It has every reason to be
gratified and satisfied with its reception. The
distinguished women who have been at the
head of that association for many years, Mrs.
Stanton, Miss Anthony, Mrs. Joslyn Gage, Mrs.
Hooker, and Mrs. Blake, were sure to attract
interest and draw an audience. The younger
and less known women, Mrs. Merriwether, of
Memphis, Mrs. E. L. Saxon of New Orleans,
Mrs. May Wright Sewall of Indianapolis, Mrs.


McClellan Brown of Pennsylvania, and Mrs.
Belva Lockwood of Washington, were all for
the first time pleasantly introduced to a Boston
audience, while Rev. Olympia Brown was wel-
comed by a large circle of old friends, who will
always hold her in honor. Several New Eng-
land speakers united with them, so that they
had ample force for their six sessions. The
speeches were abundantly and cordially re-
ported by the Boston press, which did not fail
to report, also, the rich dresses of velvet, satin
and lace, and the distinguished appearance of
the different speakers,
	During the session a gold cross was presented
to Miss Anthony by the Citizen’s Suffrage As-
sociation, of Philadelphia, in a graceful speech
by Mrs. May Wright Sewall, who characterized
Miss Anthony as the “saint” to whom the
beautiful gift, with suitable inscriptions and
date, was especially due.
	Governor Long gave the association a recep-
tion at the State House. Mrs. May Wright
Sewall said it was the first time, any Suffrage
Association had been received by a Governor.
Mayor Prince received them at the City Hall.
Jordan & Marsh invited them to the rooms of
his work-women, which were so ample and com-
fortable as to elicit much praise. The working-
women danced, and sang, and recited to the
ladies, who in turn made them speeches.
	Mrs. Fenno Tudor also offered her elegant
parlors for a reception to the association. Mrs.
Johnson, of the Sherborn prison for women,
invited them to visit that institution, which
they did. The Bird Club invited Mrs. Stan-
ton, Miss Anthony, and others, to their regular
Saturday dinner. The invitation was accepted.
Eleven years ago, a similar invitation was ac-
cepted by Mrs. Stanton, from the same club.
Altogether the association was feted and feasted
in a manner to show that Woman Suffrage, at
least in Massachusetts; holds an honorable
place.—Ex.


DISRAELI’S SENTIMENTS ON WOMAN
SUFFRAGE.
 “I say that in a country governed by a woman
—where you allow women to form part of the
other estate of the realm—peeresses in their
own right, for example—where you allow a
woman not only to hold land, but to be a lady
of the manor and hold legal courts—where a
woman by law may be a church warden and
overseer of the poor—I do not see, where she
has so much to do with the State and Church,
on what reasons, if you come to right, she has
not a right to vote.”
	In 1873 a memorial, signed by upwards of
1,000 women, was presented to Mr. Disraeli
through the late Mr. Gore Langton, M. P., to
whom he addressed the following reply:
	“Dear Gore Langton—I was much honored
by receiving from your hands the memorial
signed by 11,000 women of England, among
them some illustrious names, thanking me for
my services in attempting to abolish the anom-
aly that the parliamentary franchise attached
to a household or property qualification, when
possessed by a woman, should not be exercised,
though in all matters of local government,
when similarly qualified, she exercises this
right. As I believe this anomaly to be inju-
rious to the best interests of the country, I
trust to see it removed by the wisdom of Par-
liament.
		Yours sincerely, B. DISRAELI.”
 The following resolution was passed at a
meeting of the executive committee of the
Manchester National Society for Women's
Suffrage, held April 26, 1881.
	“That this committee in expressing their deep
sense of the loss which Parliament and the
country have sustained by the lamented death
of the Earl of Beaconsfield, desire to record


their gratitude for the services the deceased
statesman rendered to the cause of the enfran-
chisement of women by stating in the House
of Commons, during the debates which pre-
ceded the passing of the hist reform bill, his
opinion that women having property ought to
have a vote, and by his steady and uniform
support of the bill to remove the electoral dis-
abilities of women so long as he remained a
member of the House of Commons."—Ex.


THE STAGE OF LIFE.
This earth is a stage upon which we are all
acting a part; we, ourselves cannot see so well
how we are playing our respective parts as
those who are looking on and observing us can;
we sometimes think that we will turn aside a
little from the plan which the Great Designer
has laid down for us to go by in his programme,
thinking that perhaps, we can find a better
method whereby we can benefit ourselves; while
upon the stage; never thinking that we will
need assistance after we step down off from the
stage and enter in upon the reality of another
life; we will then find that by taking our own
course that we had only sought to appear well
while upon the stage; but then alas, had nev-
er reflected upon the future, but if we had been
wise enough to follow the good advice given us, 
thereby we would have lain up treasures more
durable, which would have lasted us through-
out eternity. So now my dear sisters the Gospel
has taught us to obey the perfect law, let us try
to play our part well and lay up for ourselves
treasures in heavens “where moth and rust do
not corrupt” and let us be wise in improving
our time; and not spend all the precious mo-
ments in making fine apparel to adorn ourselves
with here, but give a portion of our time to
caring for the poor among God’s people and
informing our minds upon all subjects pertain-
ing to our pure religion; and never let our
minds go so far astray after the fashion and
folly of this world, that we will render ourselves
unfit to enter in upon the realities of a higher
and better life and lose the crown which is laid
up for the faithful Mothers in Israel. Let us
above all things not neglect the tender little
ones whom God has given and entrusted in our
care; do not let them run and take care of
themselves all day and lie down at night with-
out teaching them to pray; and thus let them 
go on until after a while we will see the fruit of
our neglect. Yes, see a son or daughter grown
to youth and maidenhood; it is not much use
then, to tell them to pray they will be ashamed
so to do, and if one does prevail on them it
will be much harder than it would have been,
if they had begun earlier; and ten chances to
one if parents succeed at all; it is written that
“children should obey their parents,” but do
parents always set an example worthy of imita-
tion; if they do children will seldom if ever be-
come disobedient. A whipping now and then
is not all that is required,it is not the best way
to rule over our children but be kind and firm,
truthful and honest with them, and they will
love and obey the parents. I have written
some of the scattered ideas of my mind, which
may not prove interesting, but they arc written
with a desire for good.
S. T. B.


OLD FOLKS’ PARTY.

On June the first, in commemoration of the
birthday of our departed President, Brigham
Young, a party of aged persons sat down to a
sumptuous repast in the City Hall at Spanish
Fork, which had been kindly furnished for the
occasion. The brass band was in attendance,
and at 2 p. m. called together the invited
guests. It was a peculiarly interesting sight,
as the aged ones, some very weak and tottering,


wended their way on foot, or were conveyed in
vehicles, assembled at the place of meeting, all
well and suitably attired, not one bearing
marks of poverty, their faces aglow with se-
rene joy and peace. Many of the number were
over eighty, and some verging on ninety years
of age.
	Bishop George D. Snell and Counselors were
present. After the usual opening exercises,
Patriarch Zebedee Coltrin addressed the assem-
bly, and in a most touching manner related
many incidents connected with the life of our
late Prophet, from his personal acquaintance
with him, dating back fifty years. Several of
the aged brethren spoke testifying to the mis-
sion of Brigham Young as the leader of this
people for over thirty years, and of their
knowledge of the truth of the Gospel, and of
the blessings which have accrued to us as a 
people through those labors. Sister Mary Isaacs
sang, in a very effective manner, "Will you
love me when I'm old." Some verses written
for the occasion by Mrs. Hannali Coraby
were then read. The brass band discoursed
sweet music at intervals during the exercises.
	At five p. m. the company were seated at
three long tables, on which was tastefully
spread an abundance and variety of creature
comforts; the tables were ornamented with beau-
tiful vases of flowers. It is estimated that
about two hundred and fifty enjoyed the feast,
and an abundance was left to distribute to the
sick and those not able to attend. The eve-
ning was spent in dancing. Through the whole
of the proceedings a most delightful spirit of the
Gospel.
	The affair was wholly designed and got up
by the Relief Society, four committees of sis-
ters having been appointed to carry out the
arrangements. The people liberally responded
with means to assist the enterprise. All verg-
ing into and over seventy were invited, it being
especially a party for the old folks.
	HANNAH CORNABY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EXTRACT FROM DR. R. B. PRATT'S
					LECTURE.

	"The duties and requirements of a woman,
fulfilling her sphere of motherhood, absolutely
demand certain periods of continence, which
if not granted  through thoughtful solici-
tude for her welfare by her husband, or herself
assumed, by virtue of the dignity of woman-
hood, or by the divine right of free agency, the
principle of her life and health is encroached
upon, and she is forced to perform her ever in-
creasing labors and duties with a decreasing
store of vitality.
	"There is nothing tn the economy or require-
ments of a man's life which requires this ab-
stinence beyond the temperate limit of his
powers of vitality, and this to me is a proof
unanswerable and prima facie on the spheres of 
manhood and womanhood, of the divinity and 
I believe is a necessity for the salvation of the 
human race, of the truth and divine origin of 
the principle of plural marriage.
	With this principle universal, but limited
and governed by laws of marraige inhibiting
sensuality and selfishness, insuring to the
wife the literal fulfilment of that part of 
the marriage ceremony which provides that
she shall be 'nourished and cherished and be
provided for, and the children be hygienically
and physiologically clothed and fed and prop-
erly educated, the solution to the growing so-
cial civil would be found. Every woman could
be what every true woman's happiness depends
upon, a happy wife and mother, queen over
her own increasing posterity, and then, honored
patriarchs, which are divine rights of both
given by God as a law unto man on earth and 
throughout all eternity. Were this the order


of the world, abortions, foeticides, infanticides,
seductions, rapes and divorces would be relics
of the barbarous age, while intelligence, light,
peace and good will and love would be the
motor forces of the world– in short, the Mil-
lennium would have come.'"


BBIGHAM YOUNG ACADEMY.
PROVO CITY UTAH, MAY 30, 1881.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Dear Sister:— Permit me to express through
the medium of your esteemed paper the thanks of
this Faculty for the interest shown and efforts
made in behalf of the Brigham Young Academy
by Sisters Eliza R. Snow, and Zina D. H. Young,
and as  result of which the sum of seventy-three
dollars and sixty cents, donated by various Relief
Societies south in Scipio and in Washington and
Kane Counties has been placed at the disposal of
our Treasurer, to assist in procuring the neces-
sary apparatus for our chemical laboratory.
	Not only is this donation a substantial aid
financially to our hard struggling institution,
but also a testimonial of sympathy with, and
faith in our efforts to prepare the youth of Zion
for that great, future in which they are destined
to fill so conspicuous a part.
	The Board, Faculty, and Students  of this
Academy will, with the help of God, endeavor
to deserve always the confidence and support of
the Authorities of the Church and of the Saints
generally, and thus show their appreciation for
all acts of kindness, of which they are in so
many ways of late the happy recipients.
	With kind regards, your brother in the
Gospel.
				KARL G. MAESER.


Mrs. Sarah Andrews Spencer has organized
a Social Science Association at Washington,
D. C. Mrs. Spencer is a woman of the great-
est magnanimity of character. Her benevo-
lence and generosity are almost without par-
allel. In the clevation of woman and the cause
of woman suffrage she has labored earnestly
and courageously for years against prejudice,
ridicule and all sorts of obstacles. We bid
her God speed and offer our prayers for her suc-
cess in benefitting the condition of woman.


FOR SALE
Home-Made SILK
AT
CUTLER'S COMISSION STORE.
ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon.
OFFICE on Main St., Old Constitution Buildings.
RESIDENCE on South Temple Street, between 9th and
16th East Streets.
Special attention given to OBstetries, Diseases of Children
and Diseases of the THROAT, HEART and LUNGS.
ROMANIA B. PRATT,
Physician and Surgeon.
OFFICE-Up Stairs, in Old Constitution Building.
RESIDENCE--Six BLocks East of Post Office, South side
of street.
 Special study has been give to Obstetrics, Diseases of
Women, and DISEASES of the EYE and EAR.
HAVE YOU SEEN THE
NEW VICTOR SEWING MACHINE?
 If not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction. The New Machine
is elegant in appearance and admirable in operation, runs
very easily and without any noise and confusion, although
the rate of speed is very high. Its self-setting and self-
threading shuttle, and absence of springs and cogs, renders
it both simple and durable. Be sure to see it, for its
general advantages will make you its friend.
VICTOR SEWING MACHINE CO. CHICAGO. ILL.
YOUNG BROS. Agent, Salt Lake City.
PALACE OF FASHION, NO 17 EAST TEMPLE ST.
MRS. C. E. DYE.
 Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!
DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
OFFICE and RESIDENCE over Contibutor Office, north of
Z. C. M. L.
Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children as special-
ities.
THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS.
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes
be found in the West. Your Orders are selected
GEO. DUNFORD.
F. AUERBACH & BRO.
HAVE
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
Spring and Summer Goods.
DAVID JAMES
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.
Z.C.M,I.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS. NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.
AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
mare and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.
A LARGE STOCK
OF HOME MADE TRUNKS for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS; Old
Constitution Building; alson HOME MADE.
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,  Cotton Batting
Flannels, White Yarns,  Wool Batting,
Shawls, Colored Yarns, Brootns,
Linseys, Cassimers, Washboards;
Jeans, Tweeds,  Brushes,  Etc. Etc.
H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN 
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
AND
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.
DR. A. B. DUNFORD
DENTIST
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the 
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit end Times First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:--MAIN ST. OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P.O. BOX, 518.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1, 1881.


TO THE PRESIDING BISHOP ED
WARD HUNTER,

ON THE EIGHTY-EIGHTH ANNIVERSARY OF
HIS BIRTHDAY

Hail, our worthy, aged Bishop,
On your Anniversary,
You have won unfading laurels,
Thro' your staunch integrity.
Rich in gifts of grace and wisdom-
With celestial light imbued;
By supernal beams of knowledge,
From the eternal Source of Good.

Our first Prophet loved you dearly-
Well your sterling worth he knew;
He in holy bonds of frienship
Still retains his love for you.
Your large heart with gen'rous impulse
Unrestrained by selfish greed,
From your ample store, imparted
Freely to the Prophet's need.

When unhallowed persecution,
Waged against the Saints of God;
You, unflinching and undaunted,
Firmly as a bulwark stood.
Men of trust--of faith and courage,
When the sky was dark and drear;
Were esteemed most choice and precious,
By our noble, martyr'd Seer.

You have blessed the lonely widow--
Soothed and cheered the orphan's heart;
You, with kindness, faith and patience,
Have performed a brother's part.
As a fond and loving father,
You alleviate distress--
When officially presiding,
You decide in righteousness.

You have made a noble record,
Filled with useful service here,
Where the name of Edward Hunter,
Many "hearts and homes hold dear.
You have reached a mark of honor,
Far above all earthly fame--
You require no sculpted marble,
To immortalize your name.


[COLUMN 1]
PEN SKETCH OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS
			WOMAN.
		ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.
			CONTINUED.
	As Sister Eilza was returning home from
her travels abroad, having seen much of life in
different countries, the extremes of wealth and
poverty, she appreciated more and more the
blessings enjoyed by the Latter-day Saints in
their peaceful mountain homes; and her heart
seemed to reach out after her dear friends who
were awaiting her coming.
	From Vienna,where we left the party in our
last chapter, they went to Berlin. The wea-
ther was cold and stormy, but one sunny day,
which they improved by sight-seeing. Sister
Eliza mentions one principal promenade called
Linden Street, from the street being lined on
both sides with four rows of lime trees. She
also speaks of an extensive public ground
called the Thier Garten, with artificial forests.
shrubbery and delightful avenues, walks, etc.
Here were multitudes of people of all classes.
	The tourists from Salt Lake visited the great
German Parliament; saw Count Bismarck and
Gen. Moltke; both members at that time. (The
House of Parliament is not so large as that of

[COLUMN 2]				
the French Assembly, but there was a larger
attendance. Sister Eliza says the gallery was
crowded with ladies and gentlemen. She great-
ly admired the dress of the Prussian ladies,
and thought they exhibited the most womanly
good sense in their style of dress of any na-
tionality she had seen in her travels, and adds:
“Inasmuch as dress is acknowledged to be a
legitimate index to the mind, I feel authorized
to pronounce in favor of these German ladies.”
	From Berlin to Hamburg, the great com-
mercial centre—Sister Eliza greatly admired
the Hamburg soldiers; but the lady refers to
the continent of Europe as “a land of soldiers,"
and says while the Latter-day Saints are la-
boring to establish a kingdom of peace, the
sword is the watchword among the nations of
the earth. On the evening of May 16, 1873,
the party took steamer from Hamburg to Lon-
don. After arriving there. Sister Eliza attend-
ed the Conference with the Saints in the Grand
Amphitheatre, Holborn, May 25, and left for
Liverpool May 27, and on the 28th embarked
on board the steamer Wisconsin.
	Writing while out at sea, Sister Eliza pours
forth in verse some of those deep emotions that
swell up in the human soul, and to which poe-
try perhaps gives the most perfect expression:

		We’ve sailed on many an ocean,
		And entered many a port.
		Viewed many a Princely Palace,
		And	many a Lordly Court.

		Seen many Mosques and Churches,
		And witnessed service there;
		And how unlike the Gospel
		Their modes of worship are

		By undisputed tokens
		His favored people know
		That God again has spoken
		From hearen to man below.

		And that the glorious Gospel
		Meets every mortal need;
		While truth eternal triumphs
		O’er every human creed.

	Sister Eliza remained a short time visiting
relatives in the Eastern States; found one bro-
ther she had not met for more than twenty
years, not since he was a mere boy. The lady
speaks most feelingly of visiting the scenes of
her childhood, and of the wonderful changes
time had made during a period of thirty-seven
years. “Many had gone the way of all earth,”
bat those who remained welcomed her with
“affectionate cordiality.” Indeed, Sister Eliza
says that through the counties of Portage,
Geauga, Cuyahoga and Loraine in Ohio, it
was one continued ovation. This is proof posi-
tive of the high esteem and honor in which
herself and Apostle Lorenzo Snow were held,
after all these long years of absence, they
were not forgotten. In writing of this, Sister
Eliza says:
		Our former loved associates
		Have mostly passed away,
		While those we knew as children
		Are crowned with locks of gray

		We saw Times' varied traces
		Were deep on every hand;
		Indeed, upon the people
		More mark'd than on the land
[COLUMN 3]
		And thus as in a mirror's
		Reflection, we were told
		With stereotyp'd impressions,
		The fact of growing old.

	Sister Eliza and her Brother, Lorenzo Snow,
succeeded in gathering many genealogies of
both the living and the dead of their relatives.
	Their return home was quiet and unpreten-
tious, as the following from the EXPONENT of
July I5, 1873, will show:
	“So carefully and silently was the closing
portion of the return trip of Eliza R. Snow
concluded, that not until Thursday, the fourth
day after her arrival, when the return of her
brother, President Lorenzo Snow, to Brigham
City, was noticed in the daily papers was it
suspected by many of her friends that she was
again safe at her home in this city, which she
reached on the evening of Sunday, the 6th
inst.” 
	Immediately after her return, she resumed
her labors among the people. In the EXPO-
NENT, August 1, she published a “Salutation
to the Ladies of Utah," expressing her joy and
gratitude at being once more at home in Zion,
and the thankfulnes and pride she felt while
absent that her home was in the valleys of the
Rocky Mountains. Referred to the absurdi-
ties existing abroad in regard to the down-trod-
den women of Utah, which she had invariably
opposed with the fact that nowhere on earth
had woman such large responsibilities and
powerful influence. The "Salutation" was time-
ly and appropriate, and was addressed to all as
an expression of her good feeling and sisterly
love.
	Shortly after her return, on the 17th of Au-
gust, she addressed a very large assembly of
ladies in the Ogden Tabernacle, also about the
same time in Provo; traveled through Cache
Valley in the month of September, visiiting
societies, holding meetings, giving instruction
and doing woman’s missionary work wherever
she went. Her labors have been abundantly
blest, and wherever she has traveled she has
sown the seeds of love, union, kindness and hu-
mility, and they are springing up and bearing
much rich fruit in the hearts and lives of the
women and children throughout the valleys of
the mountains.


RETROSPECTION.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

 In looking over my past life I can plainly see
the overruling hand of providence and realize
that I was favored in being blessed with par-
ents who when they heard the voice of the true
shepherd, listened and followed Him and were
willing to accept of salvation at the risk of
losing their good name. As I grew up I was
more or less fascinated by the allurements of
the world and there was many a hard struggle
between my love for them and desire to be
saved. The germ was there but it took time
and patient care, and much watering from
the pure fountain before it gave evidence that
it had taken root or would spring forth to bear
fruit. There were times when I wondered if
religion by some other name would not do just
as well. I thought of the contrast between our
circumstances and those of our kinkred who


[Column 1]
were enjoying wealth and worldly homes while
we were not only enduring privation but were
looked down upon and despised by the most of 
them and the people at large, and I saw a dif-
ference even in our own midst; those who could
dress the finest were the ones who were most
respected and admired, and they in turn looked
upon those that did not dress and make as fine
an appearance as themselves; this had always
been the case; as a sample I will relate a little
circumstance that happened to me when a little
child, which no doubt helped to mold my fu-
ture character. 
   School was out for noon and I having an
apple one of my mates asked me for a piece of 
it when I handed her the apple, as she was
biting it another girl some five years our senior
whose parents were well off and had not as yet
been called to leave their home or sacrifice any
property, with a proud look said- "I wouldn't
touch her apple;" one of her companions asked
why? When she said why "her father's poor,"
the other laughingly replied "I'm sure he don't
look very poor," meaning in flesh. Having a 
proud and sensitive nature her words stung
me and though I said nothing I remembered
It. This was the first time that I ever realized
that I was poor or that poverty was considered
any disgrace. We had a comfortable home
and orchard and I had not wanted for any 
thing, and was much better off than numbers
of my little mates, but to the sequel. Years
passed which brought many changes and when
in my teens this same girl took a great fancy to 
me and sought me for a companion though I 
was so much the youngest. Our acquaintance
ended in a deep and lasting friendship; and
though our circumstances were afterwards re-
versed I never referred to it and she most likely
never knew how she wounded me, when I was
a poor man's child. I am very sorry to have it
to say that there is too much of this spirit
manifested among us now, not only in the hearts 
of some of the children but older ones are
guilty who bear the name of Latter-day Saints
and should be more exemplary but instead are 
stumbling blocks to the weak, as well as a re-
proach to the cause which we have espoused. 
I confess that there were times when I wished
that my father had never heard of "Mormon-
ism" and then we might have been rich instead
of which he had given his money and all his 
time from the beginning, and left us with barely
enough to subsist upon. I thought that worldy
riches would bring happiness, and I believed that
if my father would only leave the "Mormons"
and return to his former home, he would soon
accumulate wealth and I fancied that life there
would be one round of pleasure and worldy
enjoyments; but these temptations were only
momentary, being of a hopeful nature the cloud
would soon burst and I could see a bright fut-
ure in imagination. I was always indulging in 
castle building, and my pleasures were too of-
ten anticipated and very seldom realized, until
experience taught me to take such things as
they came and enjoy to-day and let to-morrow
take care of itself. Until my faith was estab-
lished and I knew for myself that this work
was true, and that my future happines or misery
depended upon the course I took here whether
I received or rejected the principles contained
in the everlasting Gospel, I was like a ship
without an anchor liable to be tossed to and fro
by the various trials and temptations that beset
me. When a child I had perfect faith and
confidence to ask  God because I knew no-
thing of the opposite power and my faith had
not been tested. I believed this to be the true
church because my parents did and I trusted
to their judgment believing all they told me to 
be true. What a responsibility there is resting
upon parents. I can truly say the Lord has
been very good to me and I consider that I 
was exceedingly fortunate in being blessed with
affectionate and wise parents who gave me

[Column 2]timely advice and admonition, though it was 
not always agreeable and I was incapable of ap-
preciating it at the time, but how often I look
back with a grateful heart that I was preserved
from falling into the snares set to lead the youth
of Zion down to perdition. To my young
friends who may have experienced similar
trials I will say "seek first the kingdom of God 
and its righteousness and all other things shall be
added thereto;" for this is the only legitimate
way for us to obtain happiness; I kvow this to be
true and would that it were possible for me to
impress it upon the minds of the youth that
they might not have to suffer sorrow and per-
haps despair and everlasting woe. How truth-
ful are the following lines from Pollock's Coures
of Time. Love God, love truth, love virtue, 
and be happy. 
	"These were the words first uttered in the ear
	Of every being made, and made
	For thought, or word, or deed accountable.
	Most men the first forget, the second none. 
	Whatever path they took by hill or vale,
	By night or day, the universal wish,
	The aim, and sole intent was happiness:
	But erring from the heaven-appointed path,
	Strange tracks they took through barren wastes,
	And up the sandy mountain climbing tolled,
	Which pining lay beneath the curse of God,
	And naught produced: yet did the traveller look,
	And point his eye before him greedily,
	As if he saw some verdant spot where grew
	The heavenly flower, where sprung the well of life,
	Where undisturbed felicity reposed;
	Though wisdom's eye no vestige could discern,
	That happiness had ever passed that way.

	Wisdom was right, for still the terms remained
	Unchanged, unchangeable, the terms on which
	True peace was given to man; unchanged as God,
	Who, in his own essential nature, binds
	Eternally to virtue happiness;
	Nor lets them part through all his Universe."
   This book if read with care, might prove a 
great benefit to the young and thoughtless in
bringing their minds to reflect upon what is of
the greatest importance; the day "when all will
be called to give an account of the deeds done
in the bodg," and not wait until, the day has
come and, "The hour of grace,
	"The final hour of grace is fully past.
	The time accepted for repentance, faith,
	And pardon, is irrevocably past;
	And justice unaccompanied, as wont,
	With mercy, now goes forth, to give to all
	According to their deeds. Justice alone;
	For why should mercy, any more be joined?
	What hath not mercy, mixed with judgement, done,
	That mercy mixed with judgment and reproof,
	Could do? 'Did I not revelation  make,"
	Plainly and clearly, of my will entire?
	Before them set my holy law, and give
	Them knowledge, wisdom, prowess, to obey,
	And win by self-wrought works, eternal life?
	Rebelled, did I not send them terms of peace,
	Which, not my justice, but my mercy asked?-
	Terms costly to my well-beloved Son;
	To them gratuitous, exacting faith
	Alone for pardon, works evincing faith?
	Have I not early risen, and set my Seers,
	Prophets, apostles, teachers, ministers,
	With signs and wonders, working in my name?
	Have I not still, from age to age, raised up,
	As I saw needful great religious men,
	Gifted by me with large capacity,
	And by my arm omnipotent uphled,
	To pour the numbers of my mercy forth,
	And roll my judgments on the ear of man?
	And lastly when the promised hour was come,
	What more could  most abundant mercy do?"
   I hope to be pardoned for quoting so much
from this Poem but much that he describes I 
know to be true having been taught these great
and important lessons in the school of experi-
ence. The principles contained in this the
Gospel of Christ are so clearly set forth and
explained by Him that no Latter-day Saint
who will read this work can doubt that he was

[Column 3]gifted with inspiration for his mind soared above
the vain things around him. On the first page
he writes,
	The muse, that soft and sickly wooes the ear
	Of love, or chanting loud in windy rhyme
	Of fabled hero, raves through gandy tale
	Not overfraught with sense, I ask not; such
	A strain befits not argument so high.

	"Hold my right hand, Almighty! and me teach
	To strike the lyre, but seldom struck to notes
	Harmonious with the morning stars, and pure
	As those of sainted bards, and angels sang,
	Which wake the echoes of eternity-
	That fools may hear and tremble, and the wise
	Instructed listen of ages yet to come."
   The Author of this book was certainly a re-
markable man raised up and inspired to write
it but the labor was so arduous that it affected
his health and cost him his life he dying in the 
twenty-ninth year of his age. His grave bears
the following inscription:

"The Grave of
Robert Pollock, AM.,
Author of "The Course of Time,"
His Immortal Poem
In His 
Monument.
Erected by Admirers of His Genius."
   If the mist or vail which hides the Eternities
from our view could only be removed for a mo-
ment and we could have a slight glimpse of 
things as they are there oh, how vain and worth-
less the things around us would seem. Would
any of us condescend to read novels or be will-
ing to waste a moment of the time allotted to 
us to prepare ourselves to dwell there? I think
not, then why not listen and obey the voice of 
wisdom, and ever seek for the spirit that can
lift our hearts above the paltry things around
us enabling us to cultivate that love which sur-
passeth all understanding that will fill our
hearts with meekness, mercy and charity to-
wards our fellow beings. Our Savior said "If
you do right in all other things and lack charity
ye are not mine," and also "To do unto others
as you would have them do unto you." Every-
thing in the world is so uncertain and change-
able that a person who is wealthy to-day may
be a beggar to-morrow and vice versa; so would
it not be better for us all to show civility and
even politeness to one another? Jesus said,
"This is my commandment, that ye love one
another, as I have loved you," and "If the
world hate you, ye know that it hated me before
it hated you, "If ye were of the world the world
would love its own. "If they have persecuted
me, they will also persecute you:" The people
of the world must be very blind not to see the
facts as they are or how can they deny that
this is the true Church of Christ! I hope that
these few scattered ideas and reflections may
help to stimulate and stir up the pure minds
in the way of remembeance that in the last
day we may not be found on the left hand of 
our Father when He utters these awful words,
	"Ye knew your duty, but ye did it not."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


IN the university of Kansas a woman fills
the chair of Greek language and literature,
Miss Kate Stephens, she has held the position
three years.
 JENNIE June has gone to spend the season in
Europe. Miss Sprague "The Earnest Trifler"
has gone abroad for the summer. Bishop Hav-
en at the American Woman's Rights Meeting
at Des Moines, Iowa said "Only the ballot in the
hands of women can save this nation from
bankruptcy in finances, minds and morals. As
a nation of drunkards they will entail heredi-
tary diseases and vitiated tastes not upon sons
oply, but upon the daughters, the mothers of
men also.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


A LETTER TO A GIFTED SISTER

	BY HANNAH T. KING.

Think not my dear Sister, tho' silent l’ve been.
I've forgotten that sweet, and remarkable scene,
That a week ago yesterday gladden’d my eyes,
And fill’d me with rapture, with joy and surprise! 
With rapture and joy that thy spirit was free,
With surprise—for I knew not such gift were in thee;
And thy prayer was so humble, so childlike and pure,
It had power the Spirit of God to allure!
It softened each one, and awaken’d a tear
In every eye—as it fell on the ear;—
The chords of sweet love bound us, body and mind
And made us feel loving, forgiving and kind.
No spirit was there but the spirit of love,
His presence we felt tho’ we saw not the "Dove"
This essence of God on that meeting did fall
And richly, and lovingly blest one and all!
With love in our hearts and faith In our prayers;
The “wheat” was so full, there was no room for tares.
It seemed that one spirit pervaded the place,
So richly the spirits, commingled by grace!
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ fill’d each heart 
And Unity, concord, and peace did impart!
Hush! now you broke forth in that heavenly “tongue"
And rapture, in silence [heared] every one!
It seemed to my rapt, and recipient ear—
That a spirit had come from a holier sphere
To bring such glad tidings to comfort my heart 
To build up my soul, and fresh strength to impart;
For I’d been in deep waters for some time before
Tho’ that day, my bosom its bright feelings bore;
As tho’ a sweet foretaste was over me cast
Of good things to come, and of those that were past; 
And I joined in the circle to work for the poor;
Little dreaming such blessings were for me in store!
How free was your spirit! how fluent your tongue!
Twas plain by whoso sweet inspiration you sung;
You seemed to my fancy an Angel on earth
Or rather your speech seemed of heavenly birth;—
But if faith, love, and prayer can Inspire a heart
No marvel you bore such a wonderful part;
For all the assembly upheld you, by these
Without any effort, so much did you please;
And each heart on its tablet has noted the day
In its own prism tints, that will ne’er pass away!
Oh! may we all live for the blessings you spake
And carefully watch every movement we make;
For we know that the tempter all people will try
But in Israel’s God, all his arts we defy;
Our hearts are all right but frail nature is weak,
For wisdom to guide let us faithfully seek;
Her paths lead to pleasure, to peace, and sweet joy.
Her coin Is all sterling and needs no alloy!
And by her sweet aid we may hope to attain
The rich blessings of life, with much less of the pain;
For when we walk wisely, we ever walk well, 
'Twas for lack of this wisdom whenever we fell.
Like children we sometimes get reckless and free,
And forget for the moment how wise we should be.
Forget that the battle is yet to be won,
And the race to the swiftest has yet to be run!—
We never can say, that our warfare Is done,
That the race is completed, the battle is won,
Till death comes along with his scythe and his dart,
And closes the pulses, and seals up the, heart— 
Then let us like watchmen, be ever awake, 
Beholding each movement our enemies make,
Let us see that our armor is ready and bright,
Let us muster our forces by day and by night,
And let us remember the talents He’s given,  
If rightly expended will help to make Heaven!
Tho’ trials await us on every hand,
By strength from above we’re enabled to stand;
And every trial, like waves of the sea
Roll over and leave us, both stronger and free!
We learn to sit loose to the baubles of Time
And all the frail treasures each fondly calls “mine,”—
But now I must close up this heart felt address
And in blessing I ask the great Father to bless
You my Sister with wisdom, with meekness to bear
The trials of life, and escape every snare,
That Satan or wicked ones artfully lay
To entrap us if we but a moment should stray;
Let your mind be a kingdom, to you has been given
Such talents as fit and prepare one for Heaven!
If rightly expended, if rightly laid out
Your own exaltation, they will bring about;
Where the goal of Eternity all can obtain,
There crown’d as a Queen, with the righteous you'll reign.


JESSE BURNS,
			OR,
		WAS IT FATE?

A Sketch of the Exodus from Nauvoo, and the
early Settlement of Utah.

CONTINUED.

	She told Mr. Wyvil of Jesse's letter and of
her answer. She prayed fervently and stead-
fastly that she might be enabled to do her
duty and trust in God that all might turn out
for her best good. She consoled herself by
thinking that if Jesse drank, as she was told
he did, life with him would not be as happy as
it had been, and no doubt she was better off
where she was.
	Minnie went to school that winter, and the
following spring secured a position as teacher
in a district school. As she lived some dis-
tance from the schoolhouse, and her health
was poor, she made arrangements to board with
some friends, in order to avoid the long walk.
	One morning, while preparing for school, a
little girl came in and said that a gentlemau
was waiting at Brother Jones' to see her. The
child was so mysterious and excited that Min-
nie began to suspect who the stranger might
be, and went chasing across lots at a very un-
dignified pace, to be caught in the arms of her 
own father. They were both so delighted to
meet that it took some time to calm their ex-
citement. When at last she thought of her
school and proposed to going to attend to it, her
father bade her dismiss it. He had plenty of
means, he said, and his children were all he
had to care for now; he would provide for
them, and the should not work for a living.
His business had prospered, and they should,
at last, be repaid for their long years of priva-
tion, and never again, while he was blessed with
means, should they want for anything necessary
for their comfort or happiness.
	Minnie felt under obligations to fill her en-
gagement; but he would not listen to it, so she
gladly complied with his commands, and going
to the schoolhouse called the pupils together and
dismissed them. The children gathered around
her, many of them weeping, and expressed
their regret at losing her for a teacher, for they
all loved her. Minnie herself could not regret
it, for teaching was trying work, both to her
health and patience; but in the midst of  her
rejoicing, she could not forget that there was a
skeleton at the feast. It was the position of
her mother as the wife of another man. It
was deep grief to her that her mother could
not share in her rejoicing. From the school-
house she went home to break the news to 
mother, and bring Nettie to see her father. It
was a strange day for Jesse- to be near Mary
after so many years' separation, and know that
she was not his. To meet her as the wife of
another, and know that he must not fold her
in his arms as he so longed to do; but he must
be content to see his children. He had thought
he could not bear it, but his longing for his
little girls overcame every other feeling, and
for their sakes he came.
	Poor Mary could no longer conceal her feel-
ings; Jesse had come and she must not see
him; he was near her and not for her. Oh,
how dreadful to her in her hour of trial seemed
the ties that bound her. She had never been
estranged in her feelings. She had accepted
the inevitable, and given him up because she
must, but her love for him was as deep as ever.
Now she was bound to another, and an insur-
passable barrier lay between them. Her forti-
tude deserted her, and she could only weep
and deplore the fate that separated them.
How small and mean then seemed all the con-
siderations that had influenced her to marry
again. She would have waited and striven to
get along some way, if she had only known he
would come to her. "She might have known
it!' SHe might have known that he did not
get her letter! that he was jealous and angry
when he wrote, but he would feel better when
he received her letter. She should have waited
and shown him there was no foundation for his
jealousy; but she had not done so, she had
taken a course to prove to him that his suspic-
ions were correct. "She had lost his confi-
dence, and he would always think meanly of
her." All the long day she tortured herself
with these reflections. It mattered not what
any one thought, she was broken down and her
feelings were beyond control.
	Jesse brought the girls home at night in a
carriage. He had taken them shopping, and
bought them a great many nice things, besides
the presents of silks and jewelry he had brought
from California.
	Never before had Minnie known what it was
to spend money without stint, without calculat-
ing just what was need and how much it would
cost. It was a happy day after all; for what
young heart, with so much to brighten it, can
long remain in the shadow. She was not self-
ish in her demands, every one was thought of and
remembered with a share of her good fortune. 
Her mother was generously provided for, and
none of James Wyvil's family were neglected
or forgotten. She also made nice presents to
some of her associates. It was a day long to
be remembered by Jesse's thoughtful kind-
ness and generosity. She had, to, a source
of happiness in the welfare of her children, for
what mother can fail to be pleased when her
children are made comfortable and happy. 
	He called to see her, and talked with her on 
indifferent subjects, giving her his money to
take care of with the oldtime trustfulness, for
following days were a round of holidays for
the children. Rides, theatres, dressmakers, 
and such enjoyments as they had always been
limited in, for they had never, since leaving
Nauvoo had an opportunity of sharing much
but the cares and responsibilities of life, with-
out much pastime or amusement.
To be continued.


INDIVIDUALITY IN DRESS.
				----
	The efforts of intelligent women to adopt a
style of dress more conducive to health and
comfort than now prevails, have been thwarted
by the inexorable conservatism of a majority of
women and men. The Boston Advertiser re-
marks:
	“Dresss reform, as reform, has never made
much progress in this country, nor indeed in
any other. So far as dressing is a matter of
taste or personal comfort, the reformers have
never been able to justify their mission. In-
deed, the laws of dress are made in a court
where the reformers have no standing what-
ever. Recently an attempt has been made in
London to release ladies from the tyranny of
mere fashion by an association called the “Rat-
ional Dress Society.” The association proposes
to assist ladies that desire to be free, through
the agency of drawing-room meetings, the dis-
tribution of “rational” patterns, and by friendly
advice given in pamphlets and the newspapers.
Every lady is to be permitted to consult her
own taste and convenience, with the sole con-
dition that her attire shall be pleasing to the
eye and conducive to health and comfort.
	One thing should be said for English women
in the matter of dress. There is much more
freedom felt and exercised by them than shown
in the United States. Women consult their
own taste and convenience far more generally
there than here. We hope the “Rational Dress
Association” will encourage individuality in
dress; If it do nothing more it will have done
a good work -- Ex.					JANE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		  THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
______________________________________________

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,		Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00.  Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonperall space, one
time, $2.50 per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street.  Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher Woman's Exponent.
				Salt Lake City Utah.SALT LAKE CITY,		-		    JULY 1, 1881.


THE MEMORABLE FOURTH.
				-----
	The fourth of July, 1831, the anniversary of
the birth of a great Republican nation, is to be
celebrated here with patriotic enthusiasm. It
is a day of national rejoicing, and should be
honored and regarded by the people who sustain
the principles upon which this government was
founded. Freedom for all, whatever their reli-
gious faith may be. It was for this our forefa-
thers suffered, fought and many died, that they
might establish a government and found a
country wherein all might "worship God ac-
cording to the dictates of their own consciences.”
The celebration is to take place at Mill Farm
Park, which on that occasion is to be christened
Liberty Park. Tables will be spread under the
trees, and no doubt every luxury of the season
will be furnished by the several committees on
picnic. A number of oxen and sheep are to be
roasted whole and served up to the company. It
is a charming spot and the trees will afford grate-
ful shelter under the July sun. The exercises
are to be short and appropriate. “The Star
Spangled Banner” will be sung by the choir,
Hon. John T. Caine will read the Declaration
of Independence, and Orson F. Whitney, Esq.,<j., will="" be="" the="" orator="" of="" day.="" '="" tliere="" some="" other="" <exercises,="" alsogames="" ,and,general="" amusemenisof="" various="" kinds,jand="" dancing,="" for="" which="" a="" platform="" has="" peen="" made.="" it;="" is;="" antic!-="" patl,="" that,="" celebration="" an="" enjoyable="" affair,="" v...="" <="" div="">
will be the Orator of the Day.  There will be
some other exercises, also games and general
amusements of various kinds, and dancing, for
which a platform has been made.  It is antici-
pated that the celebration will be an enjoyable
affair.


HONOR TO THE SILVER GREYS.
				------
	The annual excursion for the old folks of this
city and vicinity took place June 22d, the 88th
anniversary of the birth of Presiding Bishop
Edward Hunter.  The place of destination was
Farr's Grove, Ogden City, distant by train forty
miles, and about three miles' ride from the de-
pot.  The old people were "as happy as happy
could be," meeting each other and exchanging
friendly greetings; many of them were over the
age of three score and ten.  A careful commit-
tee had arranged everything for the comfort and
enjoyment of the party.  Presidents John Tay-
lor, George Q. Cannon and Wilford Woodruff,
also Bishops Edward Hunter and L. W. Hardy,
of the Church authorities, were with the party,
and participated in the enjoyments of the day.
There were thirteen cars well filled.  Two ladies
and two gentlemen of the company were over
ninety, and fifty were over eighty years old.  
The whole company, it is said, numbered six
hundred and fifty persons.
	Each person over ninety received a silver
medal with a ribbon attached, and when the 
gifts were presented, they wept for joy like chil-
dren.  Refreshments were handed through all
the cars on the way, and a special choir sang
suitable songs, making sweet melody, which was
and excellent treat for all.
	The good people of Ogden City had prepared
carriages and wagons to convey all from the de-
pot to the grove, where tables were spread and
ample provision made to make them comfortable
for the day.  Apostle F.D. Richards, President
D. H. Peery and other local authorities of We-
ber County, also Hon. Lorin Farr, were present
doing all in their power to entertain their guests.
	After partaking of refreshments, the
company assembled for the exercises, where a
large platform and benches had been arranged to 
seat the people.  The choir sang the anthem,
"Come, let us go up to the mountain of the
Lord," composed by Bro. E. Stevens, of Willard,
a young man of considerable musical and poeti-
cal genius.
	Prest. Woodruff offered prayer, music by the
Ogden brass band, a speech of welcome from
Weber County by President Peery, in which he
referred to the great honor paid to Bishop Hun-
ter.  "Few men lived, " said he, "who could ob-
tain such respect as was paid now to this veteran,
born in 1793, who had lived in the days of Wash-
ington."  Bishop Hunter followed in an elo-
quent speech, relating some of the pleasant reminis-
cences of the past, and congratulating himself
upon being associated with the Saints in these
mountain vales.  Spoke feelingly of the glorious
Constitution of our country and the Declaration
of Independence, and told the people he enlisted
as a volunteer as soon as he was old enough, and
served faithfully seven years, receiving an hon-
orable discharge, which he had still preserved.
He had always been imbued with the spirit of a
patriot, but after joining this Church and gather-
ing to Nauvoo he was accused of treason, al-
though he had broken no law or given any cause
for the accusation, etc., etc.
	Supt. Monch, in behalf of the Sunday Schools
of Ogden then presented, with a pleasing
speech, a testimonial to Bishop Hunter, as a
token of their appreciation of his useful life and
labors.  It was a large memento, handsomely
framed, containing the portraits, appropriately
arranged, of Presidents Joseph Smith, Brigham
Yonng, John Taylor, and of the aged Bishop.
At the top of either corner are the book of Mor-
mon and Doctrine and Covenants.
	The whole, with the exception of the photo-
graphs, is elegantly executed with the pen by
Prof. A. J. Phelps.  
	Below are the following words, and the poem
we have published on the first page:
	"Testimonial to Bishop Edward Huntr, pre-
sented in behalf of the Sunday Schools of Og-
den City, on the 22nd of June, 1881, being the
88th anniversary of his birthday, when he visit-
ed Ogden with the Old Folks' Excursion.  This
presentation is tendered as a token of affection
and esteem, in which the faithful veteran, to
whom it is made, is held by the donors. The
world at large hold up the lives of their great
men, that the young may follow theri illustrious
footsteps.  The Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints can proudly do the same, furnish-
ing some of the brightest examples that grace
the pages of history.  Among the individualities
that will be thus presented, Bishop Hunter will
always find a prominent place.  His purity and
simplicity of character and untarnished integri-
ty should be never failing objects of emulation
by the youth of Israel.  May the God of our
fathers bless him forever."
	President Taylor made a short pithy speech,
speaking in terms of great reverence of the
Bishop and his faithfulness and integrity, and
closed by blessing the whole congregation.  Pre-
sents of different kinds were distributed to the
oldest people present and those from different
localities, consisting of parasols, canes, dress pat-
terns, packages of tea and coffee, and a variety
of useful things.
	Elder George Goddard, in behalf of the com-
mittee, tendered thanks to the people of Ogden,
and prayed that God might bless them a hun-
dred fold.  Hoped to acknowledge their kindness
by inviting them all next year to enjoy them-
selves at Mill Farm Park, in Salt Lake City.
Choir sang "Auld Lang Syne," and benediction
was pronounced by President George Q. Cannon.
	The party returned home in safety, feeling re-
freshed and strengthened in body and mind.


THE COMET.
				----
 It is needless to announce the appearance of a
comet in the heavens, as it is the talk of the
town at present, and it seems to be greatly ad-
mired. It is indeed very beautiful as well as
wonderful. Notwithstanding the researches of
astronomers and scientists, there is still some
mystery about the appearance and disappear-
ance of these heavenly bodies. They are very
erratic in their course, and one’s ideas and theo-
ries on the subject are very likely to be upset, if
positive calculations are made of their coming
or going. Anciently comets were looked upon
as sure precursors of dire disaster by land or sea,
but people have become so matter-of-fact now-
a-days, that it is unpopular to express a belief in
any of these old fashioned signs. But certain it
is the scripture says: “There shall be signs in the
heavens,” etc.


HOME AFFAIRS.
	THE Ladies' Conference of this Stake of Zion
was held in this city, June 17th and 18th.  Full
particulars will be published in our next issue.
	THE machinery for weaving silk, ordered from
Patterson, New Jersey, by the Utah Silk Asso-
ciation, has arrived in Provo.
	PROF. J. G. Lemmon and wife from California
Academy of science have been spending a few
days about the country looking up Utah plants,
at the same time getting a few items about the
Mormons.
	SISTER M. Isabella Horne and her daughter
Miss Mattie Horne started for Bear Lake Valley
Monday morning June the 27, to visit friends in
that vicinity, and do a little missionary work
among the Societies in that locality.
	SISTERS E. R. Snow Smith, Zina D. H.
Young, Ellen C. S. Clawson and Louie Felt,
went to Sugar House Ward on Wednesday June
19th to attend a special meeting called by the
Bishop, for the purpose of organizing a Primary
Association in the Ward.
	THE sudden death of Mrs. Fanny Decher Lit-
tle, wife of Mayor Little, of this city, has cast
a gloom over many besides the bereaved house-
hold.  She was a most devoted mother and af-
fectionate wife.  She will be deeply and sincere-
ly mourned by a host of true friends.
	WE have had the pleasure to meet of late
some very interesting people, who have been
visiting this city, seeing the sights and making 
the acquaintance of a few Mormons. Among
them the sister and daughter of the famous
Julia Ward Howe, of Boston, Mass.  Mrs. Annie
W. Milliard, of San Rafael and her neice Miss
Maud Howe, of Boston;  the young lady accom-
panied her mother in her travels on the conti-
nent of Europe and in the holy land, and to all
appearance adapts herself well to the life of a
tourist. She was on her way to California to
spend a few weeks with her aunt at her home in
the West.


WE acknowledge with thanks the invitation
received from Washington to attend the meet-
ing of the Social Science Association, at the
residence of Mr. and Mrs. H. C. Spencer, in that
city, June 25th, and regret that circumstances
prevented our being present on that occasion,
but heartily wish the ladies and all engaged in
the work "God speed."
	JUDGE Daniel Tyler of Beaver has been in the
city a few days, making arrangements for the
publication of the History of the Mormon Bat-
talion, wkich he has for some time been occupied
in preparing for the press.  It is to be published
at the office of the Juvenile Instructor.  Due
notice will be given of the time of its being is-
sued.
	SESTERS Sarah M. Kimball and Sarepta M.
Heywood recently made a short visit to the
Southern Settlements in Juab and a part of San-
pete Co.  They met with the Relief Society and
Primary Association in several places. They
report crops looking well, people prosper-
ous and a good spirit pervailing among the
Saints; the thrift and industry being something
wonderful.
	ON the 24th, in company with S. M. Kimball
and M. I. Horne we went to Mill Creek to at-
tend an annual meeting of the Primary Associa-
tions of the four districts.  Mrs. E. C. S. Claw-
son and Camilla Cobb also attended.  There
were two sessions, forenoon and afternoon.  In-
teresting exercises by the children and speeches
by the ladies.  These Associations were organ-
ized just one year ago and they show a marked
improvement already.
	FRIDAY morning June 25 we had the pleasure of
being called upon by three gentlemen who came
direct from Paris the Comte de Eurgot, Charles
Boggio and F. Osorio.  The last named is a native
of Madrid Spain and Secretary of the Spanish
Legatin at Paris.  They expressed themselves
much pleased with the city and the mountain
scenery, said it reminded them of Heidleberg
Germany.  They have started on a trip around
the world.  We wish them a safe and pleasant 
journey.
	SISTERS Eliza R. S. Smith and Zina D. H.
Young returned Saturday evening June 25th
from their visit to Brigham City and Malad
Valley.  They were absent about 13 days, at-
tended the Conference of R.S. Y.L.M.I.A.,
and P. A., of Box Elder Stake held in Brigham
City, and afterwards held meetings in adjacent
settlements, and them went on to Malad valley
holding meetings and giving good counsel and
instruction, wherever they traveled among the
people.
	IT is exceedingly painful to record the acci-
dental death of our dear friend, Mrs. Josephine
Schettler, which occurred June 19th, caused by
being strangled in the salt water at the Lake,
before any one could render her assistance.  We
deeply sympathize with her lonely and bereaved
companion, and her beloved mother, from whom
the light of day has been shut out so many
years, her husband also being an invalid and
greatly dependant upon his wife, needs the
comfort and consolation of the Holy Spirit to
bear him up under this severe affliction.
"Whom the Lord loveth He chasteneth, and
scourgeth every soul whom He receiveth."  
	ON Thursday, the 7th inst., a grand benefit
entertainment is to be given, in the 21st Ward
Meeting House, to the widow and children of
the late Wm. E. Knight, who was accidentally
killed in E. Brain's brickyard in this city, on
Saturday, June 25th, 1881.  The programme
will consist of songs, recitations, etc., concluding
with the laughable force of "The Omnibus."
Prof. Jos. J. Daynes has kindly consented to pre-
side at the organ.  Sister Knight, with her hus-
band and family recently came from New Zea-
land to this city, having emigrated with a small
company of Saints under the direction of Elder
George Batt, who arrived in this city about six
weeks ago.  The enterprise is a laudable one, and
we hope the entertainment will be well patron-
ized.
	A METEOR.--On Tuesday evening, June 28th, 
about 9.30, as a lady was watching the comet,
which is now attracting public attention, she
was surprised at seeing her shadow vividly pro-
jected on the ground, and supposing some person
had come up with a lantern, turned quickly and
to her amazement saw a magnificent meteor
flashing across the western hemisphere.  It re-
sembled a globe of fire and passed from north to
southwest, describing an arc of a circle just be-
neath Ursa Major.  The meteor was visible
about three seconds and a half, and divided just
before it disappeared into three distinct portions.
Two magnificent falling stars accompanied the
phenomenon.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM

"Then fell upon the house a sudden gloom,
  A shadow on those features fair and thin;
	And softly from that hushed and darkened room,
	Twon angles issued where but one went in."
								-LONGFELLOW.
	The announcement of the death of Mrs. Ann
Maria Whitney Hall, which took place June 27,
1881, will be read with sorrow by a host of friends
of former days, as well as many who have been
intimately associated with her in later years.
Mrs. Hall was widely known in this city and vi-
cinity, and was highly respected by all. She
was especially endeared to her friends and rela-
tives on account of the many attractive and ge-
nial qualities of her noble heart, which emin-
ently fltted her to shine in the social and domes-
tic circle. In her younger life she was what the
world would term a magnetic woman drawing
all hearts towards her instinctively. Although
perhaps not designated as beautiful as some wo-
men, yet possessing in a wonderful degree the
womanly power of fascination which is always
so charming. A pleasing address and melodious
voice qualified her to entertain easily and grace-
fully; and an innate refinement of manner won
all hearts, and many of the sterner sex bowed at
her shrine. The lady, who is the subject of this
sketch, was born in an early day in the history
of this Church October 1st, 1836, in Kirtland,
Ohio. Her parents were Bishop Newel K. (de-
ceased) and Elizabeth Ann Whitney. While
she was yet a babe they left Kirtland to go up to
Missouri, but hearing while upon the way that
the Saints had been driven from their homes,
stopped in Carleton, Illinois, until Commerce
(afterwards Nauvoo) was settled, when they re-
paired thither. In the beautiful city of Nauvoo,
Ann Maria passed her childhood. At the time
of the exodus, when she was nine years old or
not quite ten, the writer remembers well her
cheerful, happy manner and her kind attentions
to parents, brothers and sisters, and her affabili-
ty to all those in any way connected with the
family.
	She was married May 2d, 1866, to Erastus F.
Hall, the ceremony being performed by Presi-
dent Heber C, Kimball. Mrs. Hall has been
the mother of five children, four sons and one
daughter; three of them have died in infancy;
two remain, one fourteen and the other six years
old, and they mourn as kind and indulgent a
mother as ever lived. Her devotion as a wife
and mother of a family was most exemplary,
and her tender watchfulness of her aged mother,
to whom she was fondly attached, approached
the sublime.

	Mrs. Hall died from puerperal fever nine days
after her confinement.
	The funeral was held at the residence in the
17th Ward, and was attended by many of the
dear friends of former days. The services were
conducted by Bishop John Tingey, and were
opened by singing, “O, my Father, thou that
dwellest.” Prayer by the Bishop. Singing,
“Sister, thou wast mild and lovely.” Remarks
by Dr. Doremus, Counselor D.H. Wells, Presid-
ing Bishop Edward Hunter and Elder Joseph
C. Kingsbury. The last two very old friends re-
ferred to the friendship and associations of for-
mer days. Services closed by singing, “Fare-
well all earthly honors.” Benediction by Elder 
Joseph C. Kingsbury.
	The coffin was literally covered with exquisite
flowers, of which Mrs. Hall was a passionate ad-
mirer. The remains were followed to the ceme-
tery by a large number of sorrowing relatives
and friends, where the last sacred rites were
performed. Prayer was offered and the grave
dedicated by Counselor D. H. Wells. May our
Heavenly Father bless the bereaved family, the
loving husband, the dear lonely children, the
aged mother and all who mourn their dear friend
and sister. The writer was intimately acquaint-
ed and fondly attached to Mrs. Hall, and feels
that she has truly parted with a sister.

“What a world were this,
How unendurable its weight, if they
Whom death had sunder'd, did not meet again."
								—Southey.
								E. B. W.


SERICULTURE.

	Report of some of the settlements of Sevier
Stake of Zion, which was organized May 6,
1879, for the purpose of sericulture.
			RICHFIELD.
	Receipts.--By donation, $104.43; potatoes
raised to the amount of $18.00; parties,
$17.90; received from Grass Valley, $4.50;
fencing material donated, $8.41; labor, $34.66;
total, $187.90.
	Disbursed for city lot, fencing material, la-
bor, etc., $144.83.
	We have some silkworms, under the able
superintendency of Sister Annie Hansen,
agent.
				ELSINORE.
	Received, $5.00; disbursed for trees, books,
silkworm eggs, $3.10; on hand, $2.00.
			ANNIE C. LARSEN, Agent.
				SALINA.
	Donations, $8.32; oats raised to the amount
of $3.67; received by parties, $10; total,
$21.99.
	Disbursements.--Deeds on city lot, $8.55;
other expenses, $6.83; total, $15.38; on hand,
$6.61.
		CATHERINE F. MARTIN, Agent.
				MONROE.
	We have some eggs, and are trying to raise
some silk this summer; The sisters take quite
an interest in planting mulberry trees, and are
trying to make a success of silk raising.
				MARY SWINDLE, Agent.
			GLENWOOD.
	Received to purchase with, $6.00. We have
also obtained a piece of land, but it is not yet
under cultivation. We hope to make a suc-
cess of this branch of home industry.
			LOUISIANNA HEPPLER, Agent.
			MARY MARSH, Secretary.


The Marquis of Lorne, it is said will return
to England in the fall.  The Princess Louise
will not visit Canada this summer.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[COLUMN 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
	REPORTS

	JUAB STAKE, P. A. 

	Report of the Primary Association of Juab
Stake of Zion. The Primary Associations of
the South and North wards of Nephi held their
second annual meeting May 30th, 1881. Stake
President Mrs. Hannah Grover presiding.
The stand was occupied by the officers of the
Relief Society and Primary Associations, also
some of the brethren. After the usual open-
ing exercises, Sister Grover made a few appro-
priate remarks. The remaining time was taken 
up by songs, recitations, dialogues and a select
reading which were rendered in a very credit-
able manner. Under the able presidency of
Sister S. R. Andrews of the South Ward and
Sister Caroline Bigler of the North Ward, the 
children are visibly progressing.
	The Mona Primary Association held their
anniversary meeting June 1st, 1881. The 
meeting was conducted by Sister Eleanor Som-
erville, Pres. of the P. A. singing "Little
birdie in the tree," prayer by Brother W. Mc-
Conkie, singing, "God is always near me;"
which was followed by songs, recitations and 
dialogues from the members. Brother Thos
Robertson from Ordervile addressed a few en-
couraging remarks to the children; after which
Bishop Hawes spoke for a short time, also Sis-
ters H. Grover and M. A. Cazier from Nephi.
Candy, raisins and nuts, were then handed 
round to the children. The entertainment
showed the lively interest the little ones take in 
their Association. All enjoyed themselves and 
manifested a good spirit.
	The annual meeting of hte Levan Primary
Association was held May 28th 1881, commenc-
ing at 10 o'clock A.M. President E. Gardner
presiding. Bishop Aaggard, and Counselors,
the officers of the Relief Society were present, 
and a number of their parents. The meeting
opened by singing "Gladly meeting kindly
greeting," and "Open the door for the child-
ren." The President made a few remarks and 
gave a verbal report of the Association. The 
exercises of the meeting consisted of songs, re-
citations, dialogues and questions on the ten 
commandments. Bishop Aagard encouaged
the children to live pure and holy lives, said
he was pleased to see the progress made, and
commended them for the good order and  their 
willingness to perform their parts.
	Prizes were then awarded. An entertain-
	ent was given by the children in the evening
the proceeds of which went for the benefit of 
the Association.
	ADDIE SCHOFIELD, Stake Sec'y

	PROVO.

	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference of the 
Relief Society of Utah Co., held in Provo City 
May 27th 1881, Present on the stand, Pres-
ident Margaret T. Smoot, Counselor Mary-
John, Secretary and Corresponding Sec'y. Sis-
ter E. R. Snow, from Salt Lake City, was also 
with us, and as usual a few of the brethren of
the Priesthood met with us. Meeting opened
by singing and prayer. President Margaret T-
Smoot said, I am pleased to meet with you
again and see so many familiar faces. I am 
thankful that we are able to meet together, 
and that we are favored to-day with the pres-
ence of our beloved Sister Snow, for we all 
claim her; she is the head of our Relief Socie-
ties to counsel advise and guide us. I have 
been used to call on the brethren to speak first,
when there were any with us, but Sister Snow
says it is proper for us to speak first, and let
 the stronger follow the weak, that if we say 
anything that needs correcting it can be cor-
rected.

[COLUMN 2]
	Sister Snow said, I am pleased to behold so
many that I am favored to accept as fellow
laborers in this great cause. I respect the 
Priesthood as much as any one,  but if they speak
after us they can correct our errors if we make
any. We are all striving to do right. Obedi-
ence is our motto, there is no other safe ground
but perfect obedience, to every principle which
God has revealed. I consider this is a sacred
organization, and if we do not avail ourselves
of it , it will be our loss, I think it is im-
portant. Those duties that pertain to temporal
things are apt to engross our time, and we neg-
lect our eternal interests, and unless our minds
are stirred up continually we lose sight of them,
but by coming together our spirits gain strength.
We need spiritual food, and sometimes I fear 
our spirits witll be small, will not mature, and
will not be worthy to enter the presence of our
Father. We want to perform every duty for
He does not require more of us than we can
perform. When there is a duty to perform
the Lord gives us our own agency and then if 
we try to do it He will be sure to help us, but 
we must be willing, and this is a surety to suc-
cess, never neglect a duty, never leave a loop
hole for Satan to enter. The sisters are doing
a good work. We do not know what we would 
have been without these societies. Joseph
Smith said they always existed wherever 
there was a perfect organization of the Church,
and the Elect Ladies meant the Presidents of 
these Societies. The speaker advised the sis-
ters to read the revelation in the Doctrine and 
Covenants given to Emma Smith. We do not 
want to stop short of Celestial glory, for that 
is the only glory that secures to us our family
ties, that opens to us all our happiness, nothing 
should get between us and our religion, let the
spirit govern us instead of the flesh, there is no
dividing our interests, and to attain Celestial
glory will take all our powers, let us be up and 
doing; it will be our good works that will 
save us at last; let us try to encourage and 
save those that tare on the back ground and 
bring them back into the fold. Let us never
be discouraged and we will never fail. We
want to be as near like our heavenly Father
as we can. Let us have faith for our families
when they are sick, and let every mother teach
her children the principle of faith, or else they
cannot stand in the day of trail. If any of us 
lack faith in God let us seek to the Lord dil-
igently, "that we may receive of his holy Spirit."
I feel that we do not live as near him as we
should. What a comfort to know that our 
Heavenly Father has passed through the same 
as we are now passing through and can feel for 
us. We should be humble and prayerful our 
hearts lifted up to God continually and it will
soon be second nature. I feel that I love you 
all, and hope to meet you all and not one lost
is my desire, Amen.
	Pres. M. T. Smoot then introduced to the as-
sembly Sister E. S. Taylor, from Salt Lake
City, President of the Young Ladies Mutual
Improvement Associations in all the Church. 
Sister Taylor said, I feel that we are not 
strangers for I have been associated with these
societies for 14 years-but it is the same faces
that generally meet us. The faithful few.
We do not lose anything by attending these
meetings, we feel our spiritual strenght re-
newed we learn a great deal. We feel that we 
have something worth living for. We cannot
attain to Celestial glory in ingnorance. I wish
to meet wit hthe Young Ladies of Provo this 
evening and hope to see as many as can come
out, etc. 
	Sister John endorsed all that had been said 
by the speakers this morning, and thought that 
we should all try and have faith in God in this 
trying time; etc. Prest. Sister Smoot said, we 
will now close our meeting and come together 
again this afternoon. I feel and suppose you
[COLUMN 3]
all do, that it is good to be here. Benediction
by Sister John. Afternoon, 1 P.M. Confer-
ence commenced by the usual exercises, after 
which Sister Snow gave the sisters some special
instructions. Bishop Johnson followed with a 
few remarks, endorsed every word of the the
remarks to-day, it is the word ofhte Lord to 
us. Sisters Holden and Tanner made a few
good remarks, followed by Mother Duke. Sis-
ter Zina Y. Williams spoke of the postponement
of the Primary Jubilee on account of so much
sickness in Provo at the present time, said the 
Primaries were doing well. There were 2227
names of the children put in the Jubilee box.
Ma Smoot said we are all engaged as we 
should be, let us purge our hearts that we be
not barren or unfruitful, let us lay aside the 
cares of the world and come to these meetings
and enjoy the full fruition of the Spirit of the
Lord. Let us live every day that we may be 
ready if called to-morrow. When we contem-
plate what we should be to enter our Father's
Kingdom, I fear we shall be lacking in many
things. I feel that we are blessed to-day in
the instructions we have received, I extend an 
invitaion to all the Bishops of the County to 
meet with us, we should be pleased to have 
them do so. It was proposed that the Jubilee 
box be kept by the President of the Society
and left by her in car in care of her successors in of-
fice, and a vote of the Conference was taken to
that effect. Conference adjourned for three
months. Benediction by Bishop Johnson. 
	CAROLINE DANIELS, Sec'y

	RICHFIELD

	We have lately been blessed by a visit from 
Sisters Zina D. Young and M. Isabella Horne,
and have so enjoyed it-I thought it might be
interesting to some of the readers of the EX-
PONENT.
	They arrived in Richfield on Wednesday;the 
25 of May and if one were to judge from their 
appearance,he would think their ride had been
in the pleasantest of cars, instead of a light,
spring carriage, over rough roads, they looked 
so cheerful, bright and pleasant.
	Thursday and Friday were spent in attend-
ing Conference, the first day being occupied by
the Relief Society, and the second day by the 
Y. L. M. I. A., and the Primary. The instruction 
and counsel given was good, and the Spirit of 
God filled our hearts with joy and peace. In 
the afternoon of hte second day, Miss Clara
Horne (who with her father and sister Mattie
were also visiting Richfield) arose and spoke in
tongues, and I never heard a sweeter language,
or a more melodious voice.-"The Spirit of 
God  like a fire was burning." There was scarce-
ly a dry eye in the congregation. Sister Young
interpreted it, and it was a poem of great and 
rare worth. It was the strongest testimony I 
have ever heard, and I have heard many here 
express themselves in the same manner. Miss
Mattie Horne, at the urgent request of the 
President, addressed the young ladies for a 
short time,  which went straight to the heart and
won the admiration and esteem of all present.
	On Saturday, Sister Young, the Sisters Horne, 
and the Presidencies of the R. S., Y. L. M. I,
A., and P. A., of this Stake visited Glenwood, 
and met with each of hte above named socie-
ties. Had a pleasant meeting,and a flow of the 
good Spirit, and all seemed edified and blessed.
We returned to Richfield in the evening, and 
remained over Sunday, and then the same
party, with the exception of the Misses Horne,
who had started home, visited the Southern
part of the County, which comprises, Inverury,
Elsinore, Joseph, Monroe ond Annabella, held 
three meetings in each place, (with the excep-
tion of Aunabella, where there is no organiza-
tion of the Y. L. M.,) one meeting with the R.


S., one with the Y.L.M., and one with the
P.A.
	The gifts of the Gospel were manifested both
in Elsinore and Monroe, and it was a great
source of pleasure and edification to the Saints,
and especially the young, many of them never
having heard anything of the kind before.
	We returned to Richfield Thursday evening,
and Friday was spent in rest, but on Friday
evening the sisters were surprised by a party
of brethren and sisters who met in the R.S.
hall, and enjoyed a few hours of talking, danc-
ing and music, and the partaking of a beautiful
picnic.  Saturday morning the sisters started
for home, intending to go through Sanpete, and
hold meeting in some of the settlements on the
way.
	The visit will never be forgotten, and I feel
safe in saying, our beloved Sisters Young and
Horne will ever have the love and prayers of
the sisters of this Stake of Zion.
	Minutes of the 7th Quarterly Conference of
the Relief Society of Sevier Stake, of Zion.
Richfield, May 26, 1881.
	Present on the stand, Sisters Zina D. Young
and M. Isabella Horne, of Salt Lake, President
Elizabeth Bean and counselors of the Sevier
Stake, and Presidents of the different Wards.
Pres't Spencer, and Bros. A.K. Thurber, G.
W. Bean, J.S. Horne, and others of the Priest-
hood.  Pres. E. Bean presiding, singing, prayer
by Pres. Thurber; singing.  sister Bean felt
peased to see so many present, and that we
had the Sisters from Salt Lake with us, and
hoped we would retain and put in practice
their counsel and instruction.  Said we needed
an Asst. Secretary for the Stake, and Miss
Annie Bean was sustained in that position.
Minutes of last Conference read and accepted.
Comppiled report read.  Sister Zina D. Young
felt her dependence in rising to address a
congregation; was thankful that so many of the
brethren were present that they might know
what was being taught their wives, daughter
and sisters.  Said the responsibilities of the
sisters were great, and their calling the most
noble of women.  They were to mould the
characters of future generations, not only for
time but for all eternity.  Contrasted the la-
bors and conditions of the sisters of the Relief
Society and the women of the world.  Said we
came together to learn to love and bless each
other, and among the women of Zion could be
found purity of heart, firmness of mind, depth
of character and sterling worth, while the wo-
men of the world were constantly struggling for
rights they could not tie to and she pitied
them.  Said we should be careful to set before
our children reading matter of our own pro-
duction.  By her request Sister Heppler read
the revelation contained in the Doctrine and
Covenants (to Emma Smith.)  Sister Young
deemed it good to read such things, said it
would enrich our souls.
	Sister Horne said this was the era for women,
and the time was nigh when they would enlarge
their minds, and increase their capacity to do
good.  This work was progressive.  Joseph
Smith had said this Church was never com-
pletely organized until the Relief Society or-
ganization was effected.  God was no respecter
of persons, and his daughters were endowed
with gifts and talents, as well as his sons, and
the gifts and blessings of the Gospel would rest
upon them, as well as upon the brethren. Said
the sisters should look after the poor, and com-
fort and bless the afflicted.  We should under-
stand business matters, and keep our books in
order, which was a very difficult matter.  We
are so constituted that we require three
kinds of food temporal food to sustain our
bodies, spiritual food to sustain our spirits, and
intellectual food to sustain our minds.  Prayed
for the blessings of God to rest upon all.
	Pres. Spencer felt like talking for a few min-
utes for the sisters benefit.  Said they were the
teachers and instructors of the youth, and he
appealed to the mothers to teach their child-
ren the principle of tithing, for it was one of
the grandest principles of the Gospel.  Spoke
very strongly upon the subjects of governing
the children, and keeping the children out of
the streets.
	Singing.  Benediction, by Bishop Jensen.
	2 P.M.	After the usual opening exercises
the Presidents of the different wards gave ver-
bal reports of their societies; reported as being
in good condition, and doing well.
	Sister Horne said she had been requested to
give the officers of the Society a few instruc-
tions in regard to their duties, which she did in
a spirit of gentleness and humility, and also
spoke of storing grain, and that we should not
sell nor use it but store it for famine.
	Sister Young spoke upon the subject of silk
culture, and the duties of the officers of the
Silk Associations.  Reported the condition of
the Silk Associations in the northern part of the
Territory.  Encouraged the Sisters to use
energy and diligence in establishing silk in-
dustries.  Said for us not to let our talents lie
dormant, but to cultivate them.  Spoke of the
ability manifested in many of the Primary As-
sociations.  We should never get in a hurry,
but take time to be kind and reasonable, and
never strike it child in a passion but teach our
children to knit, sew, cook, and do all kinds of
work.  Advised us to study the laws of health,
and teach our daughters to observe them.
Portrayed the dangers of high-heeled shoes
and tight lacing.  Discouraged the use of
Babylonish fashions.  There were two things
she always felt like running from and that was
a house on fire, and a fault-finding tongue.
The greatest source of sorro is sin; "Those the
Lord loveth He chasteneth."  But don't borrow
trouble.  "Never cross a bridge until you
come to it."  Asked the blessings of God upon
all Zion.
	Sister Bean was greatly pleased and edified
at what had been said, and thankful for the
instructions; desired to do what was right.
Urged the sisters to vote, and to know where
their children were at night. &c.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Sang "How beauteous their feet."  Benediction
by, Pres. A.K. Thurber.
			CELIA E. BEAN, Sec. Protem.
				------

	The Quarterly Conference of the Weber
Stake of Zion was held in the Tabernacle, Og-
den City, Thursday, June 9, 1881, Mrs. Jane
S. Richards presiding.
	On the stand were Apostle F.D. Richards,
Prest. D.H. Peery, Counselor Middleton and
several Bishop of the city and adjacent settle-
ments also Prest. Eliza R. Snow Smith and
Mrs. E.B. Wells of Salt Lake City, and the
officers of the presiding board of Weber Stake
R.S. and Y.L.M.I.A.
	The verbal reports of presidents of the sev-
eral societies were very satisfactory and showed
much had been accomplished by the sisters in
various charitable labors, also a marked im-
provement in speaking.
	Sister J.S. Richards gave the audience kind-
ly greeting, made preliminary remarks express-
ing her great pleasure in having Sister Eliza
present after so long an absence, and her desire
to receive and hearlen to the instructions she
might give on the occasion.
	Sister E.R. Snow Smith gave a very enter-
taining account of her trip to St. George and
the southern settlements, the enjoyment she
realized in officiating in the Temple, and in or-
ganizing the children in the Primary Associa-
tions.  She referred feelingly to the affectionate
remembrance of the societies of Weber Stake
in preparing the excellent party given in honor
of the anniversary of her birthday, and her
gratitude to all who assisted, but felt humble
and weak in having so much honor heaped up-
on her.  She exhorted the sisters to faithful-
ness and diligence in the performance of duties
as wives and mothers, and earnestly entreated
mothers to be loving and tender and guard
carefully the precious souls of their little ones,
and throw around them every possible safe-
guard to protect them from evil influences;
throught the Saints should be indefatigable in
their labors in this respect; urged the sisters to
hold fast to the "iron rod," and never lose sight
of the exaltation they had set out to obtain.
	Apostle F.D. Richards spoke in terms of the
highest commendation of the good work that
was being done by the sisters, and alluded to
the fact of their labors being greatly appreci-
ated by the Bishops and other brethren.  He
spoke of the bitter opposition that was being
exhibited toward this people by various de-
nominations of professed Christians throughout
the country.  The speaker then read a copy of
some remarks made by the Prophet Joseph
Smith a short time previous to his martyrdom,
and the prophecy uttered on that occasion of
the Saints migrating to the Rocky Mountains.
He recounted some of the severe trials and per-
secutions through which the Saints had passed
in the earlier days of the Church.  One of his
own brothers had been killed by the mob in
Missouri, and thrown with other dead bodies
into the dry well at Haun's Mill, vic-
tims of that fearful massacre, in 1837.  An-
other brother of his, one of the famous Mor-
mon Battalion, had died of the hardships of
that fearful march across the desert.
	In the afternoon of the same day, Elder
Richards read from the Millennial Star, vol.19,
concerning the first organization of the Relief
Society in Nauvoo, by President Joseph Smtih.
These articles treated of the nature of this or-
ganization, its object and bearing, and also of
the special duties of woman in relation to the
position they occupy in this Church, and the
blessings which they might obtain through
faithfulness and obedience.  The power which
should be manifested in the healing of the
sick and performing other good works, and ex-
plained the meaning of "Elect Lady," Brother
Richards made a few explanatory remarks up-
on what he had been reading; said it was all
easy to be understood and carried conviction
to every honest heart.  Spoke of the spiritual
influences which had been brought to bear up-
on the young men and boys by means of the
Mutual Improvement Associations, and gave it
as his opinion that through these spiritual
channels the improprieties of youth might in
time be corrected, and they would apply them-
selves to obtaining knowledge and intelligence.
Realized there had been a great improvement
since these organizations had been established.
	Mrs. E.B. Wells spoke upon the importance
of selecting good reading matter to put into
the hands of young people; urged the sisters to
avail themselves of every opportunity for cul-
ture, to read good books and the news of the
day, so they might be able to converse intelli-
gently upon all general topics, and to instruct
their children at home and be companionable in
the family circle, that their minds and hearts
might expand and enlarge and light be given
them and wisdom to aid them in the duties of
every day life and the high and holy responsi-
bilities which devolve upon woman.
	Bro. Samuel Eggleston made some remarks
upon Nauvoo days and his acquaintance with
the Prophet Joseph Smith, which were very in-
teresting.
	Mrs. Hattie Brownmade a few well-timed
remarks; and President J.S. Richards closed
with some suggestions to the sisters in an ap-
propriate but brief speech; and after the usual
exercises of singing and prayer, the Conference
adjourned for three months.
				-------
	Friday, June 10th, was the Quarterly Con-


ference of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Weber Stake,
Mrs. Sarah A. Herrick presiding.
	The same brethren and sisters occupied the
stand as on the previous day, except a few
young lady presidents and Dr. Ellen B. Fergu-
son, of Salt Lake City. 
	The spirit of the meetings in both forenoon
and afternoon sessions was elevating and the
instruction was highly edifying.  The speakers
were Prest. S. A. Herrick and her counselors, 
Emily S. Richards and Josephine R. West. 
Several young lady presidents of various wards
and settlements spoke intelligently upon the
principles of the Gospel, proving how benefi-
cial for spiritual improvement had been the
training they had received in these Associa-
tions. 
	Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith, E. B. Wells
and E. B. Ferguson, M.D., each addressed the
congregation.  As we have not space for all, 
we give below an extract from the speech of
the last named:  
	The speaker appealed earnestly and elo-
quently to the young, urging them to appreci-
ate the blessings they enjoyed in the Gospel,
and not listen to the allurements of those in
the world who seek to lead them aside from the
path of duty; urged them to beware of the lib-
erty which they so fascinatingly portrayed. She
had lived in the outside world and could speak
experimentally of both the conditions of soci-
ety.  If we go back to our Father with our
souls dwarfed, uncultivated and undeveloped,
we will be clipped of the glory it is our privi-
lege otherwise to enjoy in eternity.  Spoke up-
on the care of the physical organization of the
body, how necessary it was in order to do the
work of life; she referred to the evil tendency
of late hours, round dancing, tight shoes and
other things which destroy the health; alluded
to the misrepresentations of ministers in their
conferences abroad, and appealed to the young
ladies who kept Gentile company to know what
their fate would be in the morning of the res-
urrection.  She thought woman's greates mis-
sion was to bear the souls of men, and the
practices which existed in the world tended to
destroy offspring, women continually trying to
avoid the condition of motherhood.  The speak-
er gave some of her experience in the outside
world previous to embracing the Gospel, and
said that the pleasures of the world, though
fair to all appearance, had, like the apples of
Sodom, turned to ashes on her lips and were
bitter afterwards.  She entreated the young la-
dies to live their religion, considering well the
terrible consequences of going astray, of for-
feiting their birthright.
	Sister E. R. Snow Smith addressed the meet-
ing, expressing her joy in being with the sis-
ters here in Ogden again, after so long an ab-
sence.  She felt greatly attached to them, and
she observed a material growth among the
young sisters in these organizations, mental and
spiritual; she realized it forcibly here to-day;
referred to the first Association of young la-
dies which she had the honor of effecting by
direction of the Holy Priesthood; these young
sisters are respected now.  The parents had 
come to realize the benefit of these meetings by
the result.  The heart must be cultivated as
well as the head; our spirits must be matured
as well as our bodies; she had sometimes
thought there were those who called themselves
Saints who thought they might enter the King-
dom of God without doing this.  Inasmuch as
we direct our time and attention to the things
of this world, and neglect our spiritual wel-
fare, we will lose by it.  What is the wealth
of the world compared to the knowledge that
God has spoken and the intelligence that has
been revealed from heaven?  Urged the sisters
to continue reading the Bible and Book of
Mormon and Doctrine and Covenants; they
will show you how strict the Lord was with His
servants; exhorted the young ladies to read
carefully the revelation given to Emma Smith,
and notice at the close of this revelation that
what was said unto her was said unto all. It
gave her advice in regard to her duty to her
husband; in order to carry out this in our
lives, we need great cultivation.  You will obtain
this by applying your minds to reading the
scriptures and cultivating yourselves in these
meetings by the aid of the Spirit of God.  Sis-
ter Eliza also made allusion to the evils which
were entering in among our children, and the
necessity of taking care of the little ones and
preserving their bodies and souls pure; spoke
upon the Gospel and how we should obtain a
perfect knowledge of it; signs follow the be-
lievers and are not given to convince unbeliev-
ers.  The Savior said, "In my name they shall
cast out devils."  We have precisely the same
Gospel Jesus and His disciples taught. We
are philosophers enough to believe the same
causes produce the same effects; referred to the
various sects professing to have the authority;
but if they had, it must have come from the
mother church.  We have our authority from
another source, direct from heaven.  Our reli-
gion covers everything in heaven and upon
the earth.  The Lord has given us perfect prin-
ciples, but it will require the practice of these
as well as the profession.  In conclusion she re-
lated a conversation with a lady from Boston,
who thought the railroads would make great
changes in our religion.  Sister Eliza answered,
"O, no, the principles of our religion are eter-
nal--there can be no change."
	Conference was adjourned for three months.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FOR SALE.
	Home-Made SILK,
	   	AT
CUTLER'S COMISSION STORE.

	ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon.
	OFFICE on Main St., Old Constitution Buildings.
RESIDENCE on South Temple Street, between 9th and
16th East Streets.
	Special attention given to Obsterics, Diseases of Children
and Diseases of the THROAT, HEART and LUNGS.

	ROMANIA B. PRATT,
Physician and Surgeon.
							   ----
			OFFICE - Up Stairs, in Old Constitution Building.
RESIDENCE--Six Blocks East of Post Office, South side
of street.
	Special study has been given to Obsterics, Diseases of
Women, and DISEASES of the EYE and EAR.

	HAVE YOU SEEN THE
NEW VICTOR SEWING MACHINE?
	If not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction. The New Machine
is elegant in appearance and admirable in operation, runs
very easily and without any noise and confusion, although
the rate of speed is very high. Its self-setting and self-
threating shuttle, and absence of springs and cogs, renders
it both simple and durable. Be sure to see it, for its
general advantages will  you its friend.
	VICTOR SEWING MACHINE CO., CHICAGO, ILL.
		YOUNG BROS. Agent, Salt Lake City.

PALACE OF FASHION, NO. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
	MRS. C. E. DYE,
Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call her at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet and Ribbons in the latest,
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

	DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP.
		PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
	OFFICE and RESIDENCE over Contributor Office, north of
Z. C. M. I.
	Obsterics and Diseases of Women and Children as special-
ties.

		THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicialty will and the LARGEST and
		BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS.
	Also, full and desrialbe lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
she found in the West.		Your Orders are Solicited. 
			GEO. DUNFORD.

	F. AUERBACH & BRO.
		--HAVE--
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
		CALL AND EXAMINE
	Spring and Summer Goods.

	DAVID JAMES, 
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.
	Agent for Rumsey's celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

		Z. C. M. I.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY & SHELFT HARDWARE,
		GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC. 

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY. 
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves. 
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P.  TEASDEL. 

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building also HOME MADE
Blankets,
Flannels,
Shawls,
Linseys, 
Jeans,
Brown Yarns,
White Yarns, 
Colored Yarns,
Cassimers, 
Tweeds,
Cotton Batting,
Wool Batting,
Brooms, 
Washboards, 
Brushes, Etc., Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
--AND--
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD, 
DENTIST.
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID 
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE: --MAIN ST OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
		P. O. BOX, 541


﻿The report of the Primary Conference in Og-
den is crowded out of this issue, but will appear
on our next number.


﻿It will be remembered that at the signing
of “The Treaty of Berlin,” in l878, there
were “ten men" present representing their dif-
ferent nations and courts, the Earl of Bea-
consfield being the “head and front" of the
whole affair.  I have no room for further com-
ment, but will just say, compare this with the
last verse of the 8th chapter of Zechariah, and
give me your opinion.		H.	T.	K.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15, 1881.


ODE TO LIBERTY
                ________
  RY ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.
                ________
Hail, the day when Freedom, first,
Proud oppression's fetters burst--
Hail, their shades, who boldy durst
	Liberty proclaim. 
		CHORUS
Here, amid the mountain sky, 
Freedom's Flag is waving high---
Let the heav'n-born echo fly;
	God and Liberty,
Hail, the Banner of the brave,
Streaming o'er the patriot's grave:
Here, forever shall it wave 
	To protect the just. 

			CHORUS.

Glorious Fourth!  The day is ours-- 
We have nourished Freedom's powers,
And with us, her standard tow'rs 
	To Jehovah's throne.
		CHORUS,
God, who moved our worthy Sires,
When they kindled Freedom's fires, 
Utah's noble sons, inspires
	With the sacred flame. 
		CHORUS
Here, with God-like grasp, and bold,
We, the Constitution hold,
Pure as when its sacred fold
	Was, at first, bequeathed.
		CHORUS,
 Peace, the gift that Freedom gave, 
When she crowned the wise and brave,
Bids her royal banner wave
	O'er or mountain home. 
		CHORUS
Freedom spreads her wand abroad,
Prompting all to worship God,
Fearless of  the tyrant's rod:
	Glorious liberty!
		CHORUS
Freedom, Justice, Truth and peace, 
Shall in Utah's vales increase:
Shout, O Shout, till time shall cease,
	Truth and Liberty!
		CHORUS.
Here, amid the mountain sky,
Freedom's Flag is waving high--
Let the heav'n-born echo fly--
	God and Liberty.


PAST, PRESENT, AND FUTURE.
	BY HANNAH T. KING.

	We are accustomed to consider these as dis-
tincttinct epochs, but they are links in a mighty
chain of being; and when the finite, merges
into the infinite.  we suppose they will form an
eternal present; we are urged sometimes to lay
aside the Past;-- and even Byron says, "The
past is nothing;" and Shakspere says "Let
bygones be bygones."  Yet I have an intuitive
knowledge that at other moments they would
have ignored these assertions! With regard to
some things, there may be truth in them; but
not all, oh ! no, not all ! some parts of the past,
are very precious.  Why forget the good of 
any epoch ? In it we have drank of the halcyon
cup of happiness, we have lived in it, we have
suffered in it, and each and all have endeared it to
us--for in the bitter there was the sweet-- and
in the sweet, oh!  most sweet, the bitter was
surely mingled! wisely mingled, we are com-
pelled to say!  All these formed our individu-
ality--our identity if you please!  In the past
we became acquainted with our Father, 
and our Mother, and in our early days they
were as god to us--we knew no others, we
knew them, and loved them with a degree of
worship! they were the Shrine before whom
we offered up our prayers to our Father in
Heaven--they supplied all our wants, if we
were sick they nursed, and comforted  us, and
loved us thro' every scene of life.  We also
became acquainted with our brothers and our
sisters, we grew up together in the Parental
Home, and they became our friends, the sweet-
est the purest friendship existed between us.
We also made acquaintance with our children,
all these became our Lares and Penates, the
"Lines fell to us in pleasant places," an atmos-
phere of happiness was around us, tho' like
Paul we were "preserved from being too highly
exalted" -- by some spirits "sent to buffet us,"
to preserve for us an equillibrium.  We saw
and acknowledged the hand of God in all; our
parents inculcated in us the love of truth, the
principles of obedience and humility were our
earliest lessons; that humility that taught us
to listen to the counsel of those above us, and
to do to others as we would they should do
unto us; these lessons helped us to obey the
Gospel when we heard it, they help us to stand
to day, and endeavor "to hold on to the rod of
iron" thro' evil report and good report, all this
laid a foundation for the future.  Who then
can say,
	'The past, is nothing?" few can say,
	Their star of life has shed no ray,
	That o'er their retrospective view,
	Cast glowing tints of pinky hue! --
	Yes, yes the present will reveal
	The past is something-- woe or weal--
	Is built upon the mighty past
	Which thro' eternity may last! 
	The future is within the veil,
	Obscure in its unfolded tale.--
	But yet, what e'er our God's behest;
	Let's bless Him, for we have been blest. 

	The present, which to me com-
menced when entering the Church of Jesus
Christ, has realized many of the day-dreams of 
the past, it is good; if only the mind, the heart,
the understanding can grasp, and realize its
teachings, this we are trying all the time to do.
this we want to do! May our Father accept
this in place of our perfect obedience!  I con-
fess I cannot separate the past, and the future, 
from the present, they make a whole, that can
have no quartering, it simply acknowledges
the law of progression.  The Future ! a veil
hangs over it! no doubt it is wisely hiddem
from us in our present imperfect and ignorant
state.  Yet I believe it is inherent in the hu-
man composition to desire to pry into futurity;
some desire it from a love of truth, and know-
ledge that they may be guarded against the
 quick-sands that beset every pathway, some
from an idle curiosity, arising from a restless,
unhappy spirit, that have little or no confidence
in themselves and consequentle little in their
God? Such was Saul, when he applied to the
Witch of Endor, having by his conduct closed
the revelations of heaven against himself;--and
she was allowed to shew him--
		"Crownless, headless, breathless fall"
	"Son, and Sire, the House of Saul."

	To desire to gain knowledge lawfully, is per-
fectly just and praisworthy; when so obtained, 
it will be ours for eternity!  but enough
is revealed even now to excite enthusiastic
perseverence, even in the most flegmatique
to the sanguine to reach even "the anchor with-
in the Veil," and to shed its rich effulgence
over the homeliness of earth, and earthly things;
to surround the past, and present by a Halo of
light reflected back by the grand future, and
enable us to press forward "to the prize of the
high calling that is before us," till we attain
the Presence-Chamber of the great "I am"
and realize an eternal present in the kingdom
of our Father, and our God!

	The future, present and the past,
		Are subjects all should seek to scan,
	For the contain the first and last
		Of all thats precious unto man,
	An woman too, and every child
		In these grand epochs, hold a stake,
	And Heaven's love and mercy mild
		Are needed every move we make;
	Then let's be wary, let's be wise,
		For, no child's play is human life--
	We may not trifle or despise
The present with salvation rife.


﻿ THE LATE MRS. ANDREWS
	Mrs. Elizabeth Andrews, the venerable
mother of Mrs. Sara Andrews Spencer, whose
funeral services were held at the residence of
her daughter yesterday, was widely known and
highly honored east and west. President Gar-
field sent to the funeral a magnificent wreath
of the choicest flowers from the White House
conservatory, and wrote to Mr. and Mrs.
Spencer:
 “Dear Friends:—In the midst of my great
anxiety for the dear life which is the fight of
our home, I send you this word of sympathy
for the loss that death has brought to you.
						J. A. G."

	Mrs. Andrews was a woman of tremendous
brain power, and being left early a widow in-
western New York, with a family of six chil-
dren, she conquered obstacles that would have
made the stoutest heart to quail, and gave
every one of her children a superior education
and every social advantage.  For more than
half a century, as a conviction born of her
struggles in life, she was a profound believer
in the right of woman to a voice in the laws
that govern her, and when she heard in her St.
Louis home that her daughter, Mrs. Spencer,
was working zealously for that cause she said
“She is doing what I longed to do when she
was a child in my arms."
	She came to Washington to die and to be
buried at Glenwood, where her daughter, at
her request, had ten years ago selected her
resting place.  She attended the inauguration
of Gen. Garfield, to whom she was much at-
tached for many years, and never left her room
again.—The Evening Star, Washington, D.C.


MRS Mary A. Livermore is in England
June 17th, she delivered a lecture to an im-
mense audience in St. George's Hall, London.
Subject the "Duties of Woman to the Nation"
She also spoke at St. James Hall and Memorial
Hall.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


<jtf horseback,="" and="" i="" must="" say="" that="" he,"being="" afflicted="" with="" ague;="" looked="" a="" more,="" fit="" iubject="" for.a="" hospital="" than="" he="" did="" like="" missionary.="" pur="" parents="" expected="" to="" be="" there="" nearly="" as="" goon="" we="" were,.="" but="" reclamed="" in="" quincy="" two="" or="" three="" days="" longer="" 'visiting="" among="" their="" friends;="" each="" day="" william'="" .1="" walked="" the="" upper,="" landing,="" which="" was'="" 'miles="" more="" from;="" place="" where="" settled,="" being="" no="" houses="" between="" made="" distance="" seem="" still="" greater,="" and-="" haying="" return;="" at="" bight="" without="" thehlt="" felt="" homesifck="" aud="" sick="" of="" country.”="" contrast="" between,="" quincy,="" had="" spent="" the'="" spring="" summer="" so="" pleas-,="" antlypand="" .everything="" seemed="" delightful="" me="" it.="" dreary="" .looking="" .any-="" thing;="" hut"="" interesting;="" scene="" changed="" as:="" it,were,="" by="" magic,'through.'="" persevering,="" industry,="" .the="" saints,="" soon="" .instead,="" .a="" forest="" country="" was="" dotted="" over="" houses,!="" an'd="" gardens="" flowers="" were,="" under="" .cultiya-="" tiohq="" "="" shortly="" after="" -="" my="" father’s="" departure.="" tor="" europe,="" little,="" brother,.="" upon="" whom="" had'="" depended,to="" bring="" us="" water="" to,="" drink="" lay-="" sick.="" chills="" fever,="" came="" ip="" yd.th="" his="" usual.="" pail="" water,="" and.="" setting="" it.'.iipdn="" ,ihe="" floor,="" laid="" down="" "by="" it.and="" said:="" “i="" b’eye="" i’s="" go-="" in’to="" bay="" e.agu’="" too;”="" .="" .andi="" sure="" enough="" fellow="" shaking="" it..="" ..is="" an="" old="" saying="" "misery="" loves="" company,”="" certainly="" lack-="" it="" ih;.nauvoo.="" every="" remedy="" could'.be="" thought="" heard="" fried;="" even="" resort;="" ed.="" tricks="" strategems,="" some="" ,'which="" were="" ludicrous="" extreme,="" afforded="" considerable,="" fun="" amusement.="" some-!="" times="" tried="" selling="" giving="" ague="" ones="" who="" willing="" ttf="" risk="" chances,="" .purchaser="" sometimes="" t="" cause="" repent="" her="" bargain;="" doctor’s="" .pre-="" scriptions="" ;="" they="" often="" failed.="" following="" one,="" hqd="" a.striking="" effect'="" -me;="" when;="" began="" feel.the="" symptqmswe="" were"foi="" start="" run="" across="" floor="" if="" going="" on="" teethe="" bed,="" go="" instead,="" thus="" cheating="" gentleman.who="" would="" usual="" —="" -to".="" k="" -bed.="" that.lime="" regular="" chill="" otherevening,="" when="" first="" symptoms="" started="" from="" fireplace,="" .but,="" 7="" dodging="" to-govunder,thojiedxgavnjmylhea(la="" frightful,blow,="" .fejt="" no,="" of,="" chiy?="" anafever'fbr="" weeks;="" -but="" whether--it'-wasl'="" —duc-to-the-4=""><xiurtrials iand="" :privation3,="" they="" appeared="" cheerful="" even="" imtheir="" afflictions,="" and="" would="" talk="" upon="" the="" bright="" side;="" taught="" me="" prihciple'of="" patiencebnd="" '="" forbearance="" —virtues="" which1!'%'as'rather-="" deficient-in—and="" also="" to="" exercise="" fait&="" -'iif="" :="" god:'="" their="" sympa-="" thies="" were="" often="" exercised="" m="" my1="" behalf—being="" blessed="" with="" an="" elder="" brother="" whose="" happiness="" seemed="" neyer,="" .so.,comjaiec:="" ag,="" .whentgrwen="" ting="" his="" only="" sister;.)'qh="" frequently="" .put.="" ;tq;jhe!;fe,buvjiq="" thought="" any="" one="" else="" was="" trjlug'to.="" imp.e="" nphn="" ber,="" be="" ready="" fight.="" although="" father="" bad="" left="" us="" so="" sick="" .in="" .nodi'="" circumstances,="" we="" had="" of="" some="" assistance—wmt6f="" ws="" "oji;="" jis:="" i="" being="" shoeless,="" aunt="" laura="" asked="" if="" not="" better="" go="" thelord-and-makehim="" acquainted="" rou="" -icondition="" andshe,feltsure,="" that;="" he="" would'move="" heart'="" 'bishdp="" vinson="" knight,="" and.="" i.="" would,="" ,get="" new="" shoes.="" heeded="" her="" counsel,="" ana="" in="" a="" few="" days="" accom-="" panied="" .my="" mother,="" and;="" wiijiam="" seqrthe="" burpanti="" ere.="" all.supplied;="" sorafetimes="" ,raihqr="" grpt="" iq="" his.'maun.qrs,="" being;="" harassed,tby'his="" many="" spares="" .considerable="" tryhis="" pa-="" fipnee.="" ina="" years="" from,="" that="" tirrief,he'two="" sisters="" became="" ;menie,rs.="" .‘of.="" quratasy="" bcul4r-iy;jif="" shqtjsaw="" '(rpubledm="" temporal="" matters,="" she,if="" 'to="" 97fill="" 07)="" l="" ?="" -xhjo="" '.'of:<="" div="">[Column 1]
SCENES IN NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	The site of Nauvoo from the river was con-
sidered one of the most beautiful on the Miss-
issippi, and appropriately named Nauvoo, the
beautiful. Previous to being settled by the
Latter-day Saints it was called Commerce, or
Upper and Lower Commerce, there having
been two landings, which were quite a distance
apart; the Prophet Joseph lived at the lower
one, and our house was one mile from the river.
When my father left us to go on his second
mission to England there had been but very
few houses built, and there were none within a
half mile of us. We were surrounded with
trees and hazel and other underbrush. The
whole country was quite wild, and wolves being
plentiful we were treated nightly to their sere-
nades, commencing at sundown and continuing
at intervals till morning. In the winter hun-
ger made them very bold, but they were gener-
ally harmless. My first impression concerning
the place was anything but pleasing; the cir-
comstances attending my arrival there were
probably the reason—the weather was exces-
sively warm, and the bottom land being
swampy, nearly every one who had come there
was sick upon the bank of the river; my
mother being in delicate health, father took
her, with their youngest child, up by water,
sending me and my eldest brother by land in
charge of a hired woman and the driver; we
were two days on the way, and the journey
was quite pleasant; we put up at night with
Father John Smith's family; Brother George
A., their son, who was starting for England,
accompanied us to Commerce on horseback,
and I must say that he, being afflicted with
ague, looked a more fit subject for a hospital
than he did like a missionary. Our parents
expected to be there nearly as soon as we were,
but remained in Quincy two or three days
longer visiting among their friends; each day
William and I walked to the upper landing,
which was two miles or more from the place
where we settled, and there being no houses
between made the distance seem still greater,
and having to return at night without them I
felt homesick and sick of the country. The
contrast between that place and Quincy, where
we had spent the spring and summer so pleas-
antly, and everything seemed so delightful to
me that it made the dreary looking place any-
thing but interesting; but the scene changed
as it were by magic, through the persevering
industry of the Saints, and soon instead of a
forest the country was dotted over with houses,
and gardens and flowers were under cultiva-
tion. 
	Shortly after my father's departure for
Europe, my little brother, upon whom we had
depended to bring us water to drink as we lay
sick with chills and fever, came in with his
usual pail of water, and setting it upon the
floor, laid down by it and said: "I b'eve I's go-
in' to have agu' too;" and sure enough the little
fellow was shaking with it. 
	There is an old saying that "misery loves
company," and we certainly had no lack of it
in Nauvoo. Every remedy that could be
thought or heard of was tried; we even resort-
ed to tricks and strategems, some of which
were ludicrous in the extreme and afforded
considerable fun and amusement. We some-
times tried selling or giving the ague to the
ones who were willing to risk their chances, and
the purchaser sometimes had cause to repent
his or her bargain; but like the doctor's pre-
scriptions they often failed. The following
one had a striking effect upon me: when we
began to feel the symptoms we were to start
and run across the floor as if going on to the
bed, but to go under instead, thus cheating the
old gentleman, who would go as usual on to the

[Column 2]
bed. At that time my regular chill came on
every other evening, and when I first felt the
symptoms I started from the fireplace, but in
dodging to go under the bed, I gave my head a
frightful blow, and I felt no more of the chills
and fever for three weeks; but whether it was
due to the blow on my head or my faith in
the trick I could never quite decide. 
	The skin of a rattlesnake wrapped around
the head was said to be an excellent remedy
for the headache. One of our neighbors, Sis-
ter Bentley's father, killed an old one near our
house, and after dressing it they cut it in
pieces, and I saw the meat fried and eaten by
her father and husband; they invited me to
partake with them, but I had no hankering for
snake meat, though it was as nice looking as
fish, but the thought of it and the sight of the
picees squirming in the frying pan made me
feel quite nervous; but when the fever was on
and my head distracted with pain, I was per-
fectly willing to have it bound up with snake
skins, or anything else that would give relief.
None but those who have passed through simi-
lar sufferings can realize our condition, as the
days and weeks dragged on, and most of the
Saints were destitute of the commonest com-
forts, and were wanting for beds and even cov-
ering, having been robbed in the State of Mis-
souri, and the nights were very cold. We
know how the ague weakens and reduces a
person's strength in two or three days, but
there we had it for weeks and months at a
time, and there was no alternative but to sub-
mit and make the best of it.
	Wrapped in our shawls or quilts we would
sit cramped and shaking to the very marrow,
hovering over the fire, which only increased
the shivering, but would not leave it as long as
we could sit up, and when the fever came on
the pain and suffering were so intense that the
patient generally became delirious. Brother
Joseph, seeing the condition of the Saints, es-
pecially those on the bank of the river, where
the water was unfit for drinking purposes and
they were dying like sheep, his sympathies
were so wrought upon that he told them to
make tea and drink it, or anything that they
thought would do them good; and he often
made tea and administered it with his own
hands. That was the commencement of their
using tea and coffee; previous to this the
Saints had been strict in keeping the Word of
Wisdom.
	Soon after my father left us Brother Charles
C. Rich, who purchased five acres of land ad-
joining ours, and Brother Charles Hubbard,
with their wives, befriended my mother and
her children, and were truly brothers and sis-
ters. Brothers Winchester, Benson, Uncle Jo-
seph Young and many more brethren, with
their families, soon became our neighbors, and
were equally kind to us. During the first
winter my mother invited them to hold meet-
ings on the Sabbath day at her house, it being
one of the most convenient in the neighbor-
hood, though it had but one lower room and
that was shared with Sister Pratt. The breth-
ren and sisters enjoyed many glorious seasons
together, and under the influence of the Holy
Spirit they rejoiced that they were considered
worthy to suffer for so pure riches, and they
could say with truth, "My yoke is easy and my
burthen is light;" even the children partook of
that influence, and were glad when the Sab-
bath day came round.
	The following amusing incident happened
the winter that Sister Pratt was living with us.
One Saturday evening she left a plate of large
sweet cakes, or buns, upon her table by the
cupboard when she retired, and in the morn-
ing the plate being found empty caused quite
an excitement; we thought maybe they had
been taken to pa or some of his brethren,,who
might be in want, as in Elijah's case; but Sister
Pratt, being more practical than religious,

[Column 3]
thought it more probable that they had been
stolen by a rat than taken by a raven, and so
made a search by having one of the planks of
the floor taken up, and sure enough there we
discovered the buns stowed away one upon the
other, as neatly as if done by human hands.
	The next fall, Sister Pratt having been pro-
vided with a house, Sisters Laura and Abigail
Pitkin came to live with us, and remained un-
til their house was built. They were among
the Saints who were driven from Jackson Co.,
Missouri, and passed through all the trials in
Far West, and were driven out of that State
into Illinois. They supported themselves by
working at the tailor's trade. Were natives of
New England, and like many of the Saints
they had sacrificed wealth and worldly honors
for the pure Gospel of Christ. They had been
carefully trained and educated in all that was
necessary to make them good and useful citi-
zens. When they obeyed the Gospel they had
a supply of linen of their own spinning and
weaving, for bedding, wearing apparel, etc.,
sufficient to last them their lifetime; some of it
was of the finest texture that could be woven
in the loom. When Aunt Laura, as we called
her, died she had a few articles left, which
were sent by her request to her brother's chil-
dren living north of this city.
	They were living in Quincy when my father
started upon his mission, and being prostrated
with chills and fever he staid most of the time
while there at their house, and they bestowed
every possible kindness upon him, and his
brethren. They were always doing good and
trying to stimulate others to faithfulness and
good works; were refined, gentle and affable to
every one, as well as dauntless and unflinching
in the cause of truth. They were also among
the aged and infirm who were driven by brute
force across the Mississippi river into Iowa.
Sister Abigail had been an invalid for years,
and she sank under all her accumulated suffer-
ings, and was buried on the west side of the
Mississippi. I remember the kind teachings
and exhortations which I received from them
in the midst of our trials and privations, they
appeared cheerful even in their afflictions, and
would talk upon the bright side; they taught
me the principles of patience and forbearance
—virtues which I was rather deficient in—and
also to exercise faith in God. Their sympa-
thies were often exercised in my behalf—being
blessed with an elder brother whose happiness
seemed never so complete as when tormenting
his only sister, patience and forbearance were
frequently put to the test; but if he thought
any one else was trying to impose upon her, he
was ready to fight. Although father had left
us so sick and in poor circumstances, we had
seldom been under the necessity of calling upon
the Bishop; the second year we were in need of
some assistance—winter was on us and I being
shoeless, Aunt Laura asked me if I had not
better go to the Lord and make Him acquainted
with our condition, and she felt sure that He
would move upon the heart of Bishop Vinson
Knight, and I would get some new shoes. I
heeded her counsel, and in a few days accom-
panied my mother and William to see the
Bishop, who was living in Upper Commerce,
where the storehouse of the Lord was kept. 
We found him remarkably kind, and our wants
were all supplied; he was sometimes rather
gruff in his manners, being harassed by his
many cares and had considerable to try his pa-
tience. In a few years from that time the two
sisters became members of our family, and
Aunt Laura, who came with us to this valley,
often reminded me of this circumstance, par-
ticularly if she saw me troubled in temporal
matters, she would ask if I had lost my faith
in prayer.


THE biography of Sister Amanda Smith will
be concluded in our next.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


A REVERIE. 
		PART FIRST. 
I wandered through a ruin, old and grand, 
Where ivy twined across the massive door, 
And shadows fell around on every hand, 
And mellow sunbeams played upon the floor. 

It was a picture for an artist's eye, 
And one that lives within my soul to-day;
I cannot understand the reason why
"It haunts me still," like scenes of some old play.

It was deserted, desolate and lone, 
The owls and bats made nests within its walls; 
Its inmates to some other land had flown, 
And left forever their ancestral halls.  

All trace is gone to those who do not know, 
Who come and gaze, and go upon their way; 
May be they wonder how it happened so, 
And why the house was left there to decay.  

Those hemlock groves, the gentle streams that glide
So smoothly on, why tell they not the tale?
Aye, one may wander by the brooklet's side, 
And listen to the songsters in the vale, 

Or the soft summer winds, that seem to sigh-
But none of these the mystery reveal;
The mournful echoes in the distance die, 
And all conspire the secret to couceal. 

The daffodils are blooming, bright and gay, 
And buttercups and cowslips thickly grow, 
And from afar, the scent of new-mown hay
	Is waited as the gentle breezes blow.  

Beyond's the forest, with its giant trees, 
Where we may ponder in profoundest thought, 
Till, startled by the whispers of the breeze, 
We realize our minds are overwrought.  

There's soft green pastures, where the lilies grow, 
And sunset's glory's resting on the hills;
How beautiful the picture in the glow
Of fancy's radiance, which my bosom fills.  

We wander back again, as in a dream, 
Thro' an old orchard, where the birds are singing, 
Back to the hemlock grove and pearly stream;
	But hark!  the village bells methinks are ringing!

O merry bells, I ken ye know I've come, 
Ye wake so many memories which have slept, 
Say, can ye tell me of my childhood's home, 
And where the records of the house are kept?

Ah; in the background, swinging to and fro, 
Creaking and moaning, as 'twere fain to tell, 
The oldest fashioned sweep of long ago, 
Is dangling over a moss covered well.  

And there's a bucket, let me take a drink-
How sweet it tastes, wil't bring me back my youth?
Or help me of the conscious past to think?
Alas! I need not ask. I know the truth.  

I linger near the place, as tho' a spell
Had fallen on me, and I fain would weep, 
Such strange emotions in my bosom swell; 
Is this a reverie, or is it sleep?
							EMILE.


PEN SKETCH OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS
WOMAN.
ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH. 
			CONTINUED. 

	Ever since the return of Sister Elize from
her travels abroad she has been doing home
missionary work among the Latter-day Saints.
By Pres. Young's connsel she has assisted the
Bishops in organizing Relief Societies in var-
ious towns and villages in the different Stakes
of Zion.  She has herself organized most of the
Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Associa-
tions.  As an organizer she has wonderful
ability. Her keen eye and quick perception
are a great benefit to her in this respect and
she knows just what is wanted and can decide
and execute well this sort of work.
 Sister Eliza has continued to write for the
press and  public although her labors have
been very arduous, and on public occasions she
is expected to contribute a poetica effusion.
For the 24th, of July 1875 she wrote "A Jub-
ilee Poem," from which we make a brief ex-
tract.
	"This day on history's page will live
	With honor's purest diadem, adorned
	With life's chaste gems of beauty and of youth,
	We now embellish it.
			This is the day
	On which the Pioneers of Utah first,
	Not yet three decades since, with thankful hearts
	Entered this vale.
		Twas dry and desolate-
	But they had come, searching their way across
	The trackless desertplains, to find a home
	For persecuted Saints; and here they found
	A parched and sterile waste- the hertiage
	Of crickets, and the Indian's stamping ground;
	Which none but those who fully trusted in
	The living, speaking God of Abraham,
	Would have essayed, or struggled to redeem.

	God will establish in these mountain vales,
	The Kingdom Daniel saw in visionn, which
	He likened to a "little stone," that rolled
	Down from the montain- growing, moving on,
	Until it filled the earth.

		A portion of
	The elements are here before us, in
	This blooming choir- this mammoth Jubilee.
	Where youth and childhood- pure and innocent
	As vestal offerings and beautiful
	As ideality's brigh pencilings,
	Unite their voices in Jahovah's praise."
This is only an item from the Poem and
scarcely coveys an idea of its beauty or
strength. Our readers will find it in full on the
144th page of "Poems by Eliza R. Snow," Vol-
ume 11.  Sister Eliza is the recognized leader
of the women of the Latter-day Saints and per-
sided over all the largest gatherings of women
for any particular purpose that special occasions
demand.  When the women of Utah have
memorialized Congress with mammoth peti-
tions signed by 27000 women citizens, she has
been the leading spirit and an active worker
in preparing and forwarding.  In all that con-
cerns the good of Israel wherever woman's 
help is needed she is first and foremost.
	Her mind is very contemplative and she has
written much upon subjects requiring depth of
thought and pertaining to a higher life. From 
one of her poems entitled Immortality we
quote a few stanzas.
	Yes immortality; That bosom word
	To me has inspiration in it.

	But thanks to God there is an end decreed
	To human sorrow; pain and misery.
	I aim- I live for immortality,
	Life, knowledge, bliss without one stopping point.

	A thought that I should ever cease to be
	Would paralyze all other, thoughts'twould dim
	The brightest beams of joy, and would crush out
	Each holy aspiration of the heart-
	Eradicate that precious organ; hope-
	Embargo enterprize, and dry up all
	The tributary streams of happiness.

	There's nothing short of Immortality,
	Can satisfy the earnest cravings of
	That spark of pure divinity, which God
	Implanted as the fine constitutuent part
	Of beings organized with attributes
	Like His- the germ of an eternal life.

	Crown of all wisdom, sum of good to man,
	Scheme of the God's, redemption's glorious plan;
	This, through the resurrection's power combines.
	Immortal bodies and immortal minds.

 On the 27th of July after Sister Eliza re-
turned from her travels abroad, only having
arrived on the 15th in S. L. City, she went to
Brigham City where she was greeted with the
greatest enthusiam.  The people turned out in
crowds to meet her and the word WELCOME in
flowers was arranged over the gateways.  She
held meetings in several towns in Box Elder
Co., returning home after about ten days spent
among the people, meeting with the Societies,
organizing and reorganizing.  After returning
from there she visited other parts of the Terri-
tory in the interests of Relief Societies and Y.
L. M. I. A.
 Shortly after she began compiling some of
her poems, preparatory to publishing her sec-
ond volume.  And as soon as that was com-
pleted she began gathering the letters written
by the brethren and herself while traveling,
ready for publication.  This book she also
compiled carefully for the press.  It is called
"The Correspondence of the Palestine Tour-
ists," and is not only methodically arranged
but all the letters are written in a very clever
style, and better still they are true to facts in
every particular.  Those who are acqnainted
with this class of work will realize that Sister
Eliza had wonderful executive ability to do
this kind of labor while, we might say almost
constantly attending meetings where she was
always expected to speak, if she did not preside-
and very often did both.  Not only that, but 
was visiting through the country from time to
time, as circumstances and the needs of the
Societies developed.  She has a true motherly
charge over all the organizations, and watches
their movements and progress closely. We
had almost forgotten to mention that the lady
also resumed her duties as Priestess in the
House of the Lord immediately after her return
from abroad.  There are perhaps few women in
teh world who at the age of seventy and over
could accomplish so much work in so many dif-
fereut directions.  Sister Eliza is not only lit-
erary but domestic in her tastes, and while do-
ing public duty has performed her own house-
hold labors, which has no doubt been beneficial,
and prolonged her life, she has also been a good
walker, seldom riding unless the distance was
considerable, and very frequently when in the
country prefering to ride in a lumber wagon,
considering it conductive to health. Occupied
constantly in doing good, comforting the bowed
down, administering to the sick and distressed,
she has realized the full import of the Scripture
"In blessing ye are blessed.
	[To be Continued.]


ASSOCIATED CHARITIES IN' WASH-
			INGTON.
	Editor Journals:--Last evening, the fifth
meeting to consider a plan of associated chari-
ties was held in Washington, D.C., at the rooms 
of the Bureau of Education.
	Popular interest has awakened somewhat
slowly, although a few devoted souls, of large 
experience and sympathy with the poor, wel-
comed the plan from the first mention of it. 
Mrs. Walling, of Cambridge, brought it to the
notice of a few pious Jews and Gentiles, on
whose shoulders the enormous charitable work
of the District largely comes.  Last night a
constitution was adopted, based upon that of
the Boston society, and after some discussion
as to the epithet qualifying, "charities," we
chose for the name of our society that singu-
larly felicitous one of yours--"Society of As-
sociated Charities."
	A public meeting is called for next Tuesday, 
in the parlors of the Riggs House, where many
a valuable conference for  public weal has been 
entertained before.  Wish us God speed!
							STACY. 
	Washington, D. C., June 7, 1881.	--Ex.


THE Woman's Suffrage Association of Neb-
raska held a Convention in Omaha July 6th
and 7th.  It sends out tracts for distrbution.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, -	-	Editor. 

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms:  One copy one ear, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.oo Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street.  Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
					Salt Lake City Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, 	-	JULY 15, 1881.


THE ASSASSINATION.

 The Assassination of the President of the
United States has been the topic of conversa-
tion, the theme of discussion, ever since it trans-
pired. News of the terrible occurrence was
telegraphed all over the world almost imme-
diately, and condolences and messages of sym-
pathy telegraphed back again with lightning
speed.  It was a time that tried men’s souls;
strong men trembled like an aspen leaf, and
great men wept.  Thousands of men and women
offered the most earnest prayers to heaven that
his life might be spared, that the country so
glorified for its liberty might not again be left to
mourn its Chief Executive, slain by the hand
of an assassin; that his wife might not be left to
mourn a husband, his children bereaved of a
loving father and protector, his fond and aged
h:' mother grieve the loss of a son,of whom she had
been so justly proud.
 The distressing event, which took place on the
2d of July, has been published in all the papers
over and over, and every separate detail given to
the anxious public, who have ever since been
most eager to learn of his condition in every
particular.  The people have never for a moment
seemed to lose their interest in the minutest de-
tails.  If President Garfield or his friends had
any doubts how he stood in the affections of the
people of this Republic, they ought to be satis-
fied, now in the manifestations of love, of solici-
tude and attention from every portion of the
United States, as also foreign lands.  That he is
 most sincerely beloved by the people has been
sufficiently demonstrated In a thousand ways
during his illness.
	It is indeed dreadful that the spirit of Nihilism
has reached this fair and boasted land of free-
dom, and stained the American soil with the
blood of one of its bravest and most heroic
patriots—a man who distinguished himself so
admirably in the wars of his country, and who
was held so high in the hearts of the people as
 to secure his election to the highest office in the
gift of the nation—that such a man should be
attacked, at such a time and place, seems not
only improbable but utterly impossible.  And
yet such are the facts which must be recorded
In history, forever a blight upon the fair escutch-
eon of the Republic.
 While the people were desirous of celebrating
the national day, and preparations for festivity
and rejoicing were being made everywhere, sud-
denly there fell a crushing blow, and a dark
and solemn pall, as it were, settled upon the
whole land.  Faith, bright harbinger and hand-
maid of Hope inspired the soul, while the best
skill the country afforded was concentrated on the
one grand and important matter of saving the
precious life that hung as it were upon a 
thread.
	In the midst of this great sorrow, Mrs. Gar-
field bears up with the dignity born of trial, the
self-possession of true womanhood, and con-
stantly encourages and stimulates her husband.
“O woman! In our hours of ease,
Uncertain, coy, and hard to please,
And variable as the shade
By the light quivering aspen made;
When pain and anguish wring the brow,
A ministering angel, thou! ”
 President Garfield is a thousand times more
endeared to the people from what he has suf-
fered, and every hour of uncertainty is fraught
with increased affection, and his hold upon the
people will be greatly strengthened in conse-
quence of the injury he has sustained.
 May the God of heaven, he who holds the
destinies of nations in His hands, preserve him,
that this Republic may not have to suffer the
stain of another martyrdom like that of Abra-
ham Lincoln.  There is at present every hope of
the recovery of the President, and the people
rejoice; and when the glad news is telegraphed
that all danger is past, the sounds of mirth and
joyousness, the shouts and acclamations that
were hushed with sorrow upon the nation’s glo-
rious day of Independence, will resound through-
out the land, and ringing peals of fervent ho-
sannas to God for his restoration to health and
happiness will rise from ten thousand voices in
one grand swelling chorus, not only from the
nation’s capital, and where the great and wise
gather to celebrate a nation’s gratitude, but the
people in their humble homes and lowly cottages
will pour forth their rejoicings like sweet incense
to heaven.
	The latest news up to date Is most favorable
for the President’s recovery.


THE PRESIDENT'S ASSASSINATION.

AN EYE WITNESS' NARRATIVE.

 “Mrs. Sarah E. White, the lady in charge of
the waiting room at the Baltimore depot, was
the person who first reached the President after
he was shot, and saw the whole thing.  The
man came in from this door, pointing to a door
at the east, entering the ladies' room from the
main waiting room, Just as the President entered
the middle door from B street, when he ap-
proached within five feet of the President and
fired, aiming as though at the President's heart
and missed him.  The President did not seem
to notice him, but walked right on past the
man; he fired again and the President fell.  He
fell right at the turn of the second row of seats.
I was the first to reach him and lifted up his
head.  The janitor rushed in and called police!
I held him till some men came and lifted him
up; he did not speak to me or anybody until a
young man, who I think was his son, came.
After he had vomited I think he said something
to him when he was lifted upon a mattress.  No
words passed between them; the man walked
deliberately out of the centre door, where some-
body headed him off.  He then turned and
walked back the way he came, and was seized at
the door by a policeman.  I have seen the man
once or twice before.  One time in particular I
noticed him a few days ago.  He promenaded
up and down just as he did to-day, wiping his
face and apparently excited.  I thought he was
waiting for some friends.  This morning he
waited an hour, walking up aud down.  There
were few people in the room when the shot was
fired.  After the shooting, the President was
laid on the floor until a mattress could be pro-
cured, and at once was removed to a room in
the second story of the depot.  Mr. Garfield’s
son was with him at the time, and as his father
fell, he burst into a paroxysm of tears.  Secre-
tary Blaine, Hunt and Lincoln and Postmaster-

General James, were all at the depot at the time.
The waiting room was crowded at the time, both
with northern and southern passengers, and
when the shot was fired, Mr. J. W. Wheeler, of
Hampton, Virginia, was seated with some ladies
close to the President. He heard the whizzing
of the ball uncomfortably near him.  He states
at the time of the first shot the assassin was not
over seven to eight feet from him.  Mr. Garfield,
when he fell, turned deadly pale, and soon after
he was carried up  stairs, he vomited.  Guitteau
was locked up and physicians were summoned.
On the arrival of the prisoner at headquarters
he was at once locked up, and word having been
sent in every direction for physicians. Dr. Town-
send, health officer, responded, and subsequently
Dr. J. H. Baxter, of the army, Dr. Tell, of the
navy, and Dr. D. W. Bliss responded.  Guitteau
did not throw the pistol away, but had it in his
hand when arrested.  The crowd outside the de-
pot seemed at a loss whether to go to the police
headquarters and lynch the party, but about
9:45 word came out of the room in which the
President had been taken that the wound on
the body was not necessarily fatal, but that the
ball could not be probed for until after, and that
one ball had wounded him in the right arm just
below the shoulder.  This seemed to relieve the
crowd somewhat, and while it became more and
more dense it quietly awaited further news. At
about 10 o’clock p. m. the chief of police, having
consulted with Sherman, ordered out a large de-
tail of the police force.  The police ambulance
was driven to the front door of the depot.  The
President appeared to be sleeping, and was
deathly pale, but just as he was placed in the
ambulance he opened his eyes.  The streets in
the neighborhood of the depot were lined with
people, everybody was very quiet.”


AN AFFECTING SCENE.
MRS.GARFIELD’S ARRIVAL AT THE WHITE
HOUSE AFTER THE ASSASSINATION.

 “As the hour approached at which Mrs. Gar-
field was expected to arrive, a sorrowful group
gathered on the south portico of the White
House to receive her.  A few minutes before 7
o’clock she arrived and was met at the front
door by Attorney General McVeagh, Mrs. Post-
master-General James and Mrs. Garfield’s eldest
son.  Her son placed his arm about her waist,
and led her into the house,sobbing. Strong men
who witnessed turned away and wept as they
heard the heart-broken sobs of the President’s
wife. Mrs. Garfield was imedately taken to the
bed-side of her husband who quieted her with
affectionate cheerfulness.  The scene that fol-
lowed was indescribable.  The presence of Mrs.
Garfield seemed to cheer her husband, and the
favorable turn in his condition which was ob-
served within an hour after her arrival was at-
tributed by the physicians to that fact. The
President’s pulse, which had been for some time
at 140 ran down to 128 and soon afterwards to
112.  At 9.40 he was reported to be sleeping
quietly, and Mrs. Garfield felt considerably en-
couraged, although the physicians shook their
heads and maintained the opinion that the case
was hopeless.”


HOME AFFAIRS.

 MRS. M. I. Horne and her daughter Miss Mat-
tie, retnrned Saturday evening from their trip
to Bear Lake Valley, much improved in health.

   THE Quarterly Conference of this Stake of
Zion was held in this city Saturday and Sunday,
9th and 10th of July.  The speakers seemed to


be especially endowed with the Spirit of God, to 
give instruction and connsel to the people. 

	THE County Central Committee met pursuant
to call in the Council House, Saturday, July 9,
at 12 M.  Hon. John Sharp, Chairman.  A ma-
jority being present, it was decided that Primary
meetings be held in the several county precincts
on Monday evening, the 18th inst., at 8 P.M.,
for the purpose of electing delegates to the
County Convention, which will be held in the
County Court House on Saturday, July 28,
1881, at 11 A.M.
				Wednesday July 13, 1881.
   DEAR SISTER WELLS:  Lest it should not be
understood will you please say through the EX-
PONENT that the 240 pages in type which is two 
sizes smaller than the small pica which I had
intended to use contains more lines of reading
matter than the 275 pages of small pica would
have done.  The books in leather binding will be
$1.50 cach, in cloth $1.25 cach. Those who have
advanced $.175 will have the 25 cts remitted to
them, and those who have remitted 1.00 can
forward the remainder when their books will be
promptly sent post paid. The books can be ob-
tained at the EXPONENT Office.
			AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
	"WILD Flowers of Deseret," just issued from 
the Juvenile Instructor Office, is a collection of
Poems, from the pen of the gifted lady, Mrs. 
Augusta Joyce Crocheron, of this city.  We
commend this beautiful little book to the public,
The pieces contained in this volume were many
of them written when the author was very
young. She has one of those exquisitely sensi-
tive natures which need encouragement.  The
poems are upon a variety of subjects, sentimental,
pathetic, moral, religious  &c., with only a few
personals.  They are rich in pathos and full of
sweet melody.  The lady hesitated greatly in
presenting her work feeling herself only a wild-
wood plant, secluded from the great busy world,
but her numerous friends were anxious her poet-
ical efforts should be known and appreciated.
One of the best of her longer poems is "The
Coming of the King," a very pathetic piece.
Parintha's Ride and a true story, the facts
being known to the author.  The poems are all
strictly in keeping with true religion.  Mrs. C.
though modest even to diffidence is a woman of
cultured thought and talent which has given ex-
pression to ideas, opinions, sentiments and facts,
and clothed them so beautifully that they cannot
fail to please, to edify and to elevate the reader.
We heartily recommend the book to old and 
young, and feel positive it will be a desirable ac-
quisition to the libraries of the people.  One of
the quaintest pieces we ever read is "The Lost
Thought" on page 223. It perusing this preci-
ous little book we find it difficult to select the
best and speak of them.  Wild flowers were
always sweet to us and as the book has been
dedicated to the writer, perhaps we may be ex-
cused from saying more than expressing our
heartflet gratitude for the honor conferred, of
which we feel most unworthy.  Accompanying
the Book which was the first intimation of the
facts was a most exquisite bouquet of real flowers
arranged artistically by the same hands, which
have written the many pretty and tender lines
the book contains.  The presentation was made
by a third party, a lady exceptionally gifted in
language. Such manifestations of frendship
and sisterly love, call forth from the heart emo-
tions that no words can truthfully express.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


VISIT TO BOX ELDER AND MALAD.
	The Ladies Conference in Ogden City closed
on the evening of the 11th, of June.  On the 12th, 
in company of Sister Jane S. Richards, attended


meeting in Plain City, returned to Ogden, (after
administering to some sick) and in the evening
went to Brigham City.
	On Mon. the 11th, in company of Sister H. A
Snow, Stake. Pres, of the Relief Society of Box-
Elder Co., Went to Harperville, met with the
Relief Society at 11 A. M., and in the afternoon
organized Primary Associations—one in the
East and one in the West Districts.
	On the l4th attended Box EIder Conference
with the Relief Society, and on the 15th with
the Y. L. M. I. A., and the P. A.  All well at-
tended. 16th met with Relief Society at 10 A.
M., and at 2 P.M. organized a P. A. in Honey-
ville.-- 17th Went from Brigham City to West
Portage and on the 18th to Malad City. 19th
met with  the Relief Society at 2 o'clock P.M. At
half past 7 met with the officers of the three
organizations R. S., Y. L. M. I.A., and P.
A.--had a very interesting time.  
	On the 20th went to Samaria met with the P.
A. at 9 A. M., and the Relief Society at 10--dined
and went to West Portage, met with the P. A. 
at 4 and the Relief Society at 5.  21st called at
Br. Zundell's on the "Indian Farm" -- from there
to Br. Standing's--met with the R.S. full meet-
ing, and returned to Brigham City. 
							E. R. S. S.


TO THE LADIES. 

	The ladies of this Territory who are native-
born or naturalized citizens, and who wish to
exercise the privilege of the ballot, should attend
the meetings of their respective Primaries and
get a correct understanding of the matter in
question, viz., the nomination of officers to be
voted for at the August election.  Every woman 
who values liberty should be punctual at the
polls, and cast her vote intelligently for the can-
didate of her choice.


OBITUARY
	Died: at Mt. Pleasant aged 22, June 20th 1881, 
Annetie Amelia Halsett, after a lingering illness
of 3 months; she was a patient sufferer, and a 
faithful Saint, and died in full hope of a glorious
resurrection.  She was a native of Norway and
emigrated to Utah with her family.  She came 
among us a stranger, but we can say of her that
she endeared herself to all who became ac-
quainted with her.  May she rest in peace.


APPRECIATION.
		SALT LAKE CITY, May 20,1881.
MRS. HANNAH CORNABY, 
	Dear Sister--I have been reading your little 
book, and knowing that appreciation is accept-
able to an Author, I tender you my sincere ad-
miration of  your life, writings, and spirit as a 
Christian lady, Latter-day Saint, and mother.  I 
am truly glad your book was offered to the pub-
lic, and it seems to me that if generous persons
would distribute some of these among those not
of our faith, they would do a missionary work, in
showing by your "life," that the women of Zion
are pure in heart and steadfast in purpose.
	Hoping that this may be recieved in the spirit
in which it is written, and that I may some day
have the pleasure to meet you.  Wishing you
further health and happiness.  I remain,
	Your sister in the Gospel
				AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.


BIRTHDAY PARTY.

	Sister Mary A. Frantzen, Pres. of the R. S.
of Spring City with a number of the sisters of
the Society, met at the residence of Mrs. M. A.
Hyde July 1, at 8 o'clock P. M. and gave her a
surprise party, many expressed their thankful-


ness and appreciations of her most beneficial
counsel.
	Bishop Frederic Olsen was present and blessed
and encouraged the sisters with all the energy
of his soul. Pres Hyde was too overcome by
her feelings to say much, but made a few grate-
ful remarks in love and appreciation of the con-
fidence which the sisters showed for her. Most
earnestly wished she might prove herself worthy
of the implicit confidence with which they con-
fide in her.
	A number of nice presents were made her as
tokens of love and respect. We have also been
favored with a visit from Sister Sarah M. Kim-
ball, and S. M. Heywood, who met with our
Primaries in conference. Their report showed
that under the management of their Pres. their
Society is in a flourishing condition and is doing
a good work among them. They addressed the
children giving them much instruction which
will be like bread cast upon the waters. They
afterward met with the R. S. and addressed a
crowded audience of both sexes. Much good ad-
vice was given which if put in practice will prove
a lasting benefit to all those who were present.
Bishop Olsen heartily endorsed all that had
had been said, and asked God to bless and
strengthen them. 
	Success to the EXPONENT it is ever a welcome
visitor, and to all who are working for the estab-
lishment of truth is the wish of your sister in
the covenant.
						FANNY KOFFORD.

	A meeting was called on the afternoon of the
5th of June 1881 by Bishop W. S. Seely, at the
instigation of the sisters connected with the Re-
lief Society of Mt Pleasant, Sanpete Co., for the
purpose of giving a surprise to our esteemed Pres-
ident, Mrs. M. F. C. Morrson it being her 58th
birthday.
	Sister Morrison has labored untiringly in ful-
filling every duty that devolved upon her as
President of our Society for the last twelve years,
and it can truly be said of her, she has been a
Mother indeed, and as such we can fully appreci-
ate the good she has done in our midst; and pray
our Father in heaven that she may live long
and enjoy many returns of her natal day.
	She was presented with a handsome black silk
dress pattern and trimmings also a lady's valise. 
And what made the gift appreciated by her was
that almost every sister in Mt Pleasant contri-
buted so much towards the presents, thereby
showing their respect and esteem for one they so
dearly loved.
	An address in behalf of the sisters was read by
Sister Hasler. Sister Morrison replied in a very
affecting manner, yet fully appreciating the
spirit in which it was given; (for surely it was a
surprise.) Appropriate remarks were made by
Bishops Seely and Madsen, also Brother Morri-
son, (who was sent for by the sisters, without
the knowledge of Sister Morrison) and made one
of the party.
	Our young ladies sung some beautirul songs
suitable for the occasion and meeting closed with
prayer, all feeling well and much gratified with
their afternoon's entertainment.
				A. LOUISE HASLER, Sec'y.

	The family and friends of Sister Jane Baily,
President of the Relief Society Moroni, gave her
a surprise party on her 71st birthday July 4, 1881,
the tables were loaded with the bounties our
heavenly Father bestows upon his children. 
Songs, speeches and some very good instructions,
and many presents were given her as tokens of
respect for her faithful labors. One beautiful
chromo with the following inscription "There is
no place like home." Sister Baily thanked all
very kindly who had aided in making her 71st
birthday so pleasant and hoped that the Lord
would bless them. All enjoyed themselves
throughout the evening. Some verses were
written for the occasion by Sister A. M. Nielson.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

HONEYVILLE.

	Report of the organization of our Young
Ladies Mutual Improvement Association which
was organized by Sister Minnie J. Snow the
20th of last March, with officers as follows:
President, Sarah N. Hunsaker; Counselors,
Lucina Jensen, and Belle Tolman; Secretary
Maria Hunsaker; Assistant Sec'y., Minnie


Booth; Treasurer Eliza Hampton. We had
a very pleasant and instructive visit from
Sisters Eliza R. Snow Smith, Zina D. Young,
Harriet Snow, and others from Brigham City
the 16th of June. They organized a Primary
Association in the forenoon with officers as
follows, President Mary Hunsaker; Counselors,
Mary Grant, and Julia Hunsaker; Secretary
Mary Ann Graham, Assistant Sec'y. Emily
Orme; Treasurer Freddie Graham.
	In the afternoon they met with the Relief
Society; and imparted excellent instructions to
all. The EXPONENT is a welcome visitor and
is doing much good toward allaying prejudice
against woman's cause. Ever praying for
its success, and the welfare of Zion.
	Your Sister in the Gospel of Christ.
					LAURA N. HUNSAKER.

RICHMOND.

	Our organization has at last been completed.
At our last monthly meeting Sister Frances
Teasdale was voted in as second Counselor to
President Myra Merrill, and Sister Rosina
Hyers as President of the Teachers. We have
the rock foundation laid for our house and hope
to have it built and finished ere winter sets in,
where we can hold meetings more comfortably
than we are now doing altho' we enjoy our-
selves very nicely in our Meeting Hall. On
the 4th of June we held our annual meeting
when we had the pleasure of having our es-
teemed friend Sister Libby Benson, President
of Relief Societies of Cache Valley Stake, pre-
sent with her first Counselor Sister Louie Ben-
son; had the comfort and blessing of our sisters
which made us rejoice. I am pleased to say
there is very little sickness here tho' we have
had very serious times, having had six deaths
occur within a short time of each other lately.
		Yours in the truth,
					BETSYBROWER, Sec'y.

FAIRVIEW.

	The Relief Society of Fairview held their
13th annual meeting on June the 14th, com-
mencing at 10 o,clock A. M. The forenoon
was occupied with the usual exercises, reading
of reports, voting in officers. A few cheering
remarks from Bishop Tucker, Counselor Lar-
son and others. The programme gotten up by
the committee was carried out and we had a
most enjoyable time, ended with a picnic, in
which all were invited to participate. A danc-
ing party was given in the afternoon and even-
ing.
	One of the enterprises in which our sisters
are engaged is making cheese on the coopera-
tive principle which so far has been a success.
	On the 19th of May, Sister M. A. P. Hyde
and Sister Kofford of Spring City and Sister
Petersen of Ephriam with several other sisters,
visited our place and held meetings with the
Relief Society and Primary Association in the
afternoon and met with the Young Ladies in
the evening. The Spirit of the Lord attended
them and they gave much good counsel which
we hope to see carried out. Such visits from
our sisters come like refreshing dew and we
pray that in blessing they may be blessed.
				M. A. PRITCHETT, Pres.
				LOIS A. WILSON Sec'y


30	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SALT LAKE CITY.

	The Conference of Relief Societies of Salt
Lake Stake was held June 17, 1881, in the
14th, Ward Assembly Rooms. Mrs. M. Isa-
bella Horne presiding. Opening by singing,
"Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation,"

[Column 2]
Prayer by Mrs. Elizabeth Howard. Singing
"Let Zion in her beauty rise &c."
	Mrs. Horne made some opening remarks,
and expressed her intense interest in the work
of the Latter-days.
	1st Ward reported by Mrs. Margaret Steele,
2nd Ward, Sarah Mac Gregor, 3d Mrs. Eliza-
beth Weiler, 4th, Mrs. Jane Smith, 6th Mrs.
R. Fulmer, 7th, Mrs. Alice Needham, 8th, Mrs.
Barney, 9th Mrs. Sarah Groo, 10th, Mrs. Jane
Earle, 12th, Mrs. Julia Druce, 13th, Mrs. B.
W. Smith, 14th, Mrs. M. A. Wilcox, 15th,
Mrs. R. Jones, 16th, Mrs. Diana Reid, 18th,
Mrs. Ellen Barton, 19th, Mrs. Whipple, 20th,
Mrs. Miller. After hearing from these branches
of the organization the meeting closed by sing-
ing Doxology, Benediction by Mrs. B. W.
Smith, adjournment until 2 P. M.
	Afternoon Session; meeting opened by sing-
ing "How firm a foundation ye saints of the
Lord" Prayer by Mrs. E. S. Taylor, singing
"O my Father thou that dwellest" &c. Mrs.
Spencer reported North Jordan Ward, Sugar
House Ward, Mrs. S. B. Gibson, Union Mrs.
Griffiths, Pleasant Green, Mrs. Elvira Hirst.
Brighton Mrs. M. A. Hazon. Mrs. Horne
after giving some special instructions to Presi-
dents said, the Lord has called his handmaidens
to help in this great work, and it is worth liv-
ing for and working for, but we are too much
engrossed in looking after the things of the
world but as Latter-day Saints it is not the
most important matter, it would be better for
us to look after the kingdom of God and its
righteousness and everything else will be added
unto us. We realize the more we come together
the more we will love each other and we will
get stirred up to come and meet together, and
every time we come to meeting we feel warmed
up and think we will try and perform this duty.
I understand many in the country are raising
silk and many making an effort in gathering
wheat. Let us be wise in these things. The
Lord blest Sister Zina and I when we were
traveling South. There were showers of rain so
that many brethren were able to hitch up their
teams and come with their families to meeting,
which they could not have done if it had not
rained. We hope all the sisters will respond
to making the 4th of July a day of rejoicing.
We want all our sisters who are citizens and
have the right to vote to do so and not be care-
less about this privilege. Let us appreciate
this blessing which we have had put into our
hands.
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor spoke of the Conference at
Provo which she had recently attended, urged
the Sisters to attend the Conference and the
Saturday semi-monthly meetings. We must
work for our exaltation ourselves. There are
many things for us to do, we have been coun-
seled in regard to storing up wheat, let us en-
deavor to carry this out, and also let me say to
the sisters to take an interest in the coming 4th,
let us help to make a rousing good time, and
let us show our patriotism and willingness to
help the brethren in this celebration. Spoke
of the healing power of God and told some of
her experience.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball, I have been pleased at
hearing the sentiments expressed here to-day, I
was gratified to hear Sister Taylor speak as she
did about the coming celebration, we ought to
read and get an understanding of the principles
of government and become familiar with the
Declaration of Independence, for our own
benefit and the benefit of our children.	*	*	*
*	Let us get ready and have rousing good 4th;
I like the barbacue, I like to have company in
eating.
	I have just returned from a visit to Sanpete
we had large congregations everywhere we
went, it caused me to feel very humble and to
depend altogether on the Spirit of God.	*	*	*
The way I understand life is to do all the good
we can and make all as happy as we can.

[Column 3]
	Mrs. B. W. Smith said, I believe I could
speak better if this house was full. I have just
returned from a visit to Grantsville, where we
attended Conference and we had large congre-
gations and a very good turn out of the breth-
ren at every meeting.
	Dr. E. B. Ferguson, I rejoice in meeting
with you all this afternoon and in bearing tes-
timony to the work of God. I hope we will
not get careless and indifferent concerning
that which is for our good. I have read with
surprise the letter which has been referred to,
written by a lady in the United States declin-
ing public work because she was a wife and
mother—We, who are in this kingdom feel that
it is because we are wives and mothers that our
hearts and sympathies go out to all humanity
and we seek to bless and benefit others besides
those of our own household. It is as wives and
mothers that we desire to stand side by side
with our husbands and sons in building up this
kingdom. If we shrink from our duty who
will take it up? Let us take hold of this com-
ing celebration, and show the government that
we understand and appreciate our privileges by
making it a success. The time may come when
we may be called to celebrate a woman's day
of independence, and as women of this Repub-
lic let us be alive to our duties whatever our
enemies may have to say against us. I pray
that we may be united, and that we may seek
to be fed at the fountain of all truth—our
spirits require to be fed with food that will
promote our eternal growth—the body could
not exist long upon one meal of food a week,
neither can our souls exist without spiritual
nourishment. Those who attend their meetings
punctually will be fed and will grow in know-
ledge and usefulness. Mrs. E. C. S. Clawson Pres.
of the Primary Associations of Stake, spoke of
the Children's Conference to be held the next
morning in the Assembly Hall and invited
children parents and grandparents to come &c.
	Mrs. Rachel R. Grant spoke of the good
time she had in St. George last winter.
Thought we should interest ourselves in getting
up our records, we have many principles in
the Gospel. We will feel very happy when
we meet with our loved ones who are gone, and
let us so live that we can be happy and joyful
all the time. The Spirit of God will bring us
joy and peace all the day long. Felt that the
Primary Associations would do much good,
and realized we should set our children a good
example, our experience will be profitable to
the rising generation, all may not have to pass
through the same. We should know very
little about the hereafter only for the Gospel.
Our young people would be much more happy
and enjoy themselves better if they had the
spirit of the Gospel in their hearts.
	Mrs. Horne was much pleased with the spirit
of the Conference and said, I do not know of
any family having suffered by the sisters being
called to fill an office. The Lord will always
open a way for us to fill our positions if we op-
en our hearts and do aM the good we can for
the good of all the community. Spoke against
the sisters sendiug their children to outside
schools, parents would be held responsible, ad-
vised mothers to know where their children
were at night and have them retire early;
hoped the Lord would enlighten the minds of
of his handmaidens, said she felt a care over
the sisters of this Stake.
	Mrs. Kimball made a few remarks on the
subject of hired help. thought something could
be done that would materially benefit young
girls who needed employment and those who
employed them &c.
	Conference adjourned to September 16, sang
"Lord dismiss us &c." Benediction by Mrs.
M. P. Young.
					E. HOWARD, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 31


[Column 1]
SPANISH FORK.

	On Saturday June the 11th ult. the Primary
Association of Spanish Fork had a Jubilee.
Arrangements had been previously made to
spend the day at a grove a short distance from
town, but in consequence of the weather being
unsettled, it was deemed wisdom to conduct the
exercises in the meeting house. The children
assembled at 10 A. M. dressed in holiday attire,
their countenances beaming with pleasure and
anticipation. The members of the brass band
kindly left their occupations and enlivened the
scene with sweet music. All being ready, the
little ones were formed in line, and headed by
the band marched up Center street and coun-
termarched to the meeting house, when they
were called to order by their President, and
the following programme was rendered in a
manner that reflected much credit to the child-
ren, and indicated great labor and care on the
part of their instructors. Singing "In the
Chambers of the Mountains;" Lord's prayer in
concert. Singing—"Joseph Smith's First
<ljosepb. smith’s-'first="" prayer.’="" -="" questions="" on,="" church="" history.="" singing-“cbeautifui="" fountain="" -jhome,t(from="" sister="" hannah,="" icornaby’s="" .pppms="" and.="" .songs)="" i)="" iet="" byiiss="" .maggie="" and="" htastrxndrew="" .mor?="" gan.="" v="" remarks="" by-elder="" a.="" ferguson="" jsinging="" “gatherlfoemjnfco="" the="" fold?'="" elder="" jra.lewis,="" -singings="" “in="" our-lovely-deseret."="" benediction="" i,="" tke="" employers="" offhocoop="" "fatorefur="" disked="" a="" bountiful="" supply="" of="" candyaod="" raisins="" to="" up-="" yfafdsfo="" childfenl,'="" !'="" 1="" %="" 'tile="" mumoal.oxprxii,="" were="" (conducted'="" by="" prof.="" wm.="" r%="" jones,="" who="" labored="" assiduously="" in="" training'ther’litlle="" folks;="" 'r,t="" on="" sunday="" morning="" jmembers="" primary="" were-invltedby="" loun.choir="" leader="" leadj.thecongregational="" siugmgwhich="" they,-="" did="" admirably;="" astoriishirigjind="" delighting="" all="" who.hearil="" -them..="" brothercof-naby.,:="" accom-="" panied-themon="" tbe="" organ.-="" -:="" :="" 1-="" primry="" ci="" ation;="" spanish="" .fprjis="" prosperous="" condition'under'="" able="" man-="" agement="" its="" pridentjjiss="" m.="" mclean="" her;="" faithful="" assistants,-="" -“="" "="" t="" .-i..:="" .7..="" ...="" h.="" c.="" '11j="" ,7trrrn="" .="" --="" h="" avmyopodenv="" a.vl,="" onajuriayfyunqiuti’was-="" &e;="" 'cbnfereuce="" associations,at="" which’="" prest.'joseph="" ft="" smith="" was="" present,="" request="" chil-="" dren="" cfcogdeff="" ctk3="" meetlngwasbnducted="" prest.="" josephitie="" k.="" w&ti;="" presided="" with="" quiet="" dignity.="" after="" singing="" ths="" .chil-="" dren,="" lana-pyphjby.apostlq.="" f-tlichards,="" again,="" minutes="" tad,="" followed="" imterestipg="" ;exercie3="" iyltbevlituelhlks.="" mrs.="" jan:j5="" richards="" addressellhe="" drenajew..minutes,="" praising="" their="" good="" order-="" attentiop.="" sisterxelizg,="" rjjshow="" aid.she.was="" very="" pleased="" meet="" children="" see="" bright,="" happy4ace="" she="" told="" them'="" of1="" ser-="" vices="" at'="" kirtlan'd;="" whn="" father="" grandfather="" joseph="" f.="" smith'was="" there,="" paid="" they="" had="" four="" services;="" every="" day;.jit="" temple;="" sick'and="" lame="" came'to="" be="" healed,="" wouhhhr'orraway="" crutches="" gorhotnawhoiea="" ond="" ‘day="" fathersmith="" tpifestation="" cof="" spirits="" od'the'="" day="" pehtecost,’="" 'and="" his="" grayer="" answered,="" and.thetemple="" filled="" ith="" spirit="" god,="" sound="" as="" %mg...of,wind?="" roaring,="" pf-flamea.="" irsheskedjtha="" feveraluestions,="" ivluch'ere="" promptiymnawered.loj-,-="" r="" presttjoseph="" then="" spoke,="" ex-="" -----o="" v.auv.10w="" ttliu.="" llio="" .----)thaur.,'j="" iriie.j;pointed="" -nut-'the="" blessing="" sister-el="" r.="" snow="" jsinlth="" fhad="" wn="" zion="" employing="" her="" tal-="" ents="" in-writingfor="" and.othersand.="" organizing="" these="" associations.-="" he="" wished="" impress="" upon="" the.="" fact="" ‘="" beidg="" sons="" daughters="" the-="" saints,-born="" new="" everlasting="" coven--="" ant;-'by="" which="" became="" legitimatfe="" heirs'.tbi="" thb-pnesthood--heirs="" god="" and’="" joihb="" heirs="" with-ohri't;.="" there="" a,command="" given="" ehilcfrerr="" ancient="" israel="" to.'="" honor="" fathers="" mothers,="" urged="" it3;ful-="" filment’-upon-="" bf="" modern="" israel.="" jesus'="" christ,="" when="" earth,="" gave="" great-="" estcommandment,="" -“thou,="" shalt="" love="" lord="" thy="" heart="" neighbor="" thyself.”="" keep-this="" command-;="" merit="" will="" rieyer="" fell="" lie,="" steal,;curse="" or="" swea'r,.="" and-if="" thus="" keep-god’s="" wordy="" heal="" them="" are="" sick="" through;="" faith="" the'="" laying="" hands="" elders.="" eldeysmith="" children;="" mob="" murdered="" prophet-joseph="" brother="" hyruin,="" drove="" saints="" from="" homes="" across="" the'pldiris,="" now-that="" we="" here="" valleyshf="" mountains,="" mobbers="" coming="" teach="" our="" boys="" girls="" religion.="" speaker="" emphatically="" not="" go="" their-="" schools="" nor="" as-="" sociate="" any="" gentiles="" anywhere,="" con-="" cluded="" biasing="" name="" christ.--="" ’v-="" r,="" ’="" in'="" the’afternoon="" exercises="" continued;="" sistereliza="" r;="" smith;="" pjest.="" smith,="" apostle="" d.="" dr.="" ellen="" b.="" each="" addressed="" meeting="" advice'="" niuch'-eh-="" cquragement="" persever'd="" course="" pursuing,="" become="" valfarit="" in:="" the'1="" 3)rd?s="" army,-="">Prayer." Questions on Church History.
Singing "Beautiful Mountain Home," (From
Sister Hannah Cornaby's Poems and Songs)
Duet by Miss Maggie and Master Andrew Mor-
gan. Remarks by Elder A. Ferguson, singing
"Gather them into the fold." Remarks Elder
J. A. Lewis, singing "In our lovely Deseret."
Benediction.
	The employers of the Coop Store furnished
a bountiful supply of candy and raisins to up-
wards of 400 children.
	The musical exercises were conducted by
Prof. Wm. R. Jones, who labored assiduously
in training the little folks.
	On Sunday morning the members of the
Primary were invited by our choir leader to
lead the congregational singing, which they
did admirably; astonishing and delighting all
who heard them. Brother Cornaby accom-
panied them on the organ.
	The Primary Association of Spanish Fork is
in a prosperous condition under the able man-
agement of its President, Miss M. A. McLean
and her faithful assistants.
								H. C.

PRIMARY OF OGDEN.

	On Saturday June 11th was the Conference
of Primary Associations, at which Prest. Joseph
F. Smith was present, by request of the chil-
dren of Ogden. The meeting was conducted
by Prest. Josephine R. West, who presided
with quiet dignity. After singing by the chil-
dren, and prayer by Apostle F. D. Richards,
and singing again, minutes were read, followed
by imteresting exercises by the little folks.
	Mrs. Jane S. Richards addressed the chil-
dren a few minutes, praising their good order
and attention.
	Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith said she was very
pleased to meet with the children and see their
bright, happy faces; she told them of the ser-
vices at Kirtland, when Father Smith, the
grandfather of Prest. Joseph F. Smith, was
there, and they had four services every day in
the Temple, and the sick and the lame came to
be healed, and would throw away their crutches
and go home whole. One day Father Smith
prayed for a manifestation of the Spirit as
they had on the day of Pentecost, and his
prayer was answered, and the Temple was filled
with the Spirit of God, and a sound as of a
rushing of winds and roaring of flames was
heard; she asked the children several questions,
which were promptly answered.
	Prest. Joseph F. Smith then spoke, and ex-
pressed his pleasure at meeting with the
children and hearing their exercises and the
speeches made to them. He pointed out the
blessing Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith had been
to the children of Zion by employing her tal-

[Column 2]
ents in writing for the children and others, and
in organizing these Primary Associations. He
wished to impress upon the children the fact
of their being sons and daughters of the
Saints, born in the new and everlasting coven-
ant, by which they became legitimate heirs to
the priesthood—heirs of God and joint heirs
with Christ. There was a command given by
God to the children of ancient Israel to honor
their fathers and mothers, and he urged its ful-
filment upon the children of modern Israel.
Jesus Christ, when on earth, gave as the great-
est commandment, "Thou shalt love the Lord
thy God with all thy heart and thy neighbor as
thyself." Children who keep this command-
ment will never tell a lie, steal, curse or swear,
and if they thus keep God's word, He will heal
them when they are sick, through faith and the
laying on of hands of the Elders. Elder Smith
told the children of the mob who murdered the
Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother Hyrum,
and drove the Saints from their homes across
the plains, and now that we are here in the
valleys of the mountains, the children of these
mobbers were coming to teach our boys and
girls religion. The speaker told the children
emphatically not to go to their schools nor as-
sociate with any Gentiles anywhere, and con-
cluded by blessing the children in the name of
Jesus Christ.
	In the afternoon the exercises of the children
continued. Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith, Prest.
Joseph F. Smith, Apostle F. D. Richards and
Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson each addressed the
meeting and gave good advice and much en-
couragement to them to persevere in the course
they were pursuing, and become valiant in the
Lord's army,
	Closed by singing, benediction, and Primary
Conference adjourned for three months.


[Column 1]
JESSE BURNS,
OR,
WAS IT FATE?

A Sketch of the Exodus from Nauvoo, and the
early Settlement of Utah.

CONTINUED.

	But what of James Wyvil! his feelings may
be more easily imagined than described. It is
written "Thou shalt not covet thy neighbors'
wife." He had not intended to do so, and had
not thought of sinning. He had waited until
she was free from Jesse and never expected to
see him any more. He had taken such a
course as could not place him under condem-
nation. He thought God would not condemn
him and his own conscience approved, but he
had plucked the fruit and it had turned to
Dead Sea apples. How many lauded him
when he married her, they would gladly have
done the same, but now they were ready to say
"it served him right he might have known
it." "Such is life" it is the way of the world. 
Jesse Burns was too true a man to desert
his wife and children, said those who had been
loudest in condemning him. It was a peculiar
situation to be placed in. Even had he chosen
to have given her up, he could not say to Jesse,
"here she is you can have your wife back
again;" for she was not land nor gold, nor
household goods, and the marriage covenant by
which she was bound to him was an eternal one.
Weeks and months went by. The sun shone,
the showers fell, the days dawned and darkened,
and the summer passed away. To Mary it all
seemed a wretched farce. She could not see
the hand of providence, the clouds so darkened
and obscured it. She could not see that Jesse
was drifting away, being carried farther, and
farther on the tide of prejudice and unbelief.
She could not see that the demon of strong
drink was binding him, stronger and firmer in

[Column 2]
his degrading bands, for intoxication had not
yet conquered his manly pride; but the
destroyer was there, and the chains were being
forged no less strong and sure, because in
silence and in darkness. In James Wyvil she
had a rock of refuge, but she blinded by her
idolatrous love failed to realize it. Her pride
was wounded by the position she was placed in.
How few could know how really blameless she
was. How many who were first to counsel her
were now ready to condemn.
	To Minnie who was proud and sensitive to a
fault the position was a trying one, and her
grief was not lessened when her father informed
her that he intended to marry again. He
called for her one Sunday morning to go to
meeting, and on the way informed her that he
had chosen a wife who would share his destiny.
Minnie could say but little, for surely he had
as much right to marry again as her mother
had. She could only weep and beg him to con-
sider well his choice, for some subtle instinct
told her that it would bring no happiness to
himself nor to his children.
	He said, he was yet a young man and should
not live his life alone; no doubt the lady he
had chosen would make him an intelligent
companion. As neither of them knew any
reason why she would not, it was as well per-
haps that it should be her as any one.
	She was a widow lady some years younger
than Jesse. Her mother dying left the family
in her care. It consisted of a brother eighteen
years old at that time, two sisters, fourteen and
sixteen and a little boy of ten. She worked at
dressmaking, and it was by employing the lady
in that way that Minnie and her father became
acquainted with her. She was not a handsome
woman, but her intelligence and address made
her a pleasant companion when she chose to
exert herself. Jesse made short wooing and
they were soon married. He did not take his
wife from her charge, but went to live with the
family and built them a nice house that fall.
	When it was finished he invited Minnie to
live with them, which she was glad to do, as
she could no longer feel at home in James
Wyvil house. It was a bitter blow to Mary,
but she could only suffer in silence.
	Minnie went to school that winter and was
also thrown much in society, for her father's
wife moved in the best circles and held a pos-
ition which Minnie's mother's long isolation
had deprived her of. Not that Mary failed to
draw around her intelligent and refined com-
panions, but she did not feel like going much in
society.
	The two girls Grace and Maria were nice
agreeable girls, although sometimes a little jeal-
ous of the attention shown Minnie for she was
well received and much sought after. In the
spring Jesse said he must return to California
to look after his business as he had left it in
the hands of his partner. Preparations were
accordingly made to take his wife and leave
Minnie with the rest of the family. She felt
very bad to have him go away. There was no
love between her and the present Mrs. Burns
but she felt that she would be lonely indeed
when her father was gone.
	The day came at last for starting, and Minnie
watched them with a feeling of dumb agony,
until her father came and kissed her good-bye,
when she went away to hide her grief, for she
felt that it was too sacred for any one to wit-
ness, and her extreme sensibility caused her to
fear their ridicule.
	When she came in again they were gone
and she felt inexpressibly lonely, for she re-
alized that she had perhaps, parted with her
father for the last time.
	She kept a brave heart and a merry one, to
all outward appearance; but none knew the
loneliness, the aching void, nor the silent tears
that were shed when others were sleeping. Nor
how often she envied her associates who were


blessed with homes where a father and mother
guarded over them, and love and union held its
sacred influence in their hearts.
	She was not without admirers, but there was
no one with whom she felt to trust her life's
happiness.
	When another year had passed Mary was
again left alone, with an infant daughter of
James Wyvil's she felt something of the old-
time desolation at being thrown once more on
the world. She felt deeply the parting with
James, for she had long since given up all
thoughts of Jesse. He too had placed a barrier
between them that could not be overlooked.
Was he happy in so doing. How many of us
in our anxiety for a change ever make one for 
the better.
	On going to California he resumed his busi-
ness and, for awhile prospered. He built a
large hotel and rented it, which brought him
a good income.  He often wrote to Minnie and
sent her money.  He also informed her that he
had made a will giving the hotel to his children.
Nettie and herself were all he had. To his
wife he gave a valuable farm. Minnie knew
little of them except what he chose to write, but
rumors came that he was drinking hard, then
there was a long silence broken now and then
with word that he was going to the bad.
		  To be continued.


32	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
NOTES AND NEWS.

	SOCIAL SCIENCE ASSOCIATION.—The sixth
regular meeting of the District of Columbia
Social Science Association was held at the resi-
dence of Prof. and Mrs. H. C. Spencer, Satur-
day evening, June 25, at 8 o'clock. Perma-
nent officers were elected as follows: President,
Mrs. Sara A. Spencer; Vice-Presidents, Hon.
John Eaton, Mrs. Maria T. Walling, Hon.
John Hitz; Secretary, Dr. Wm. Tindall; Treas-
urer, Rev. A. Floridus Steele. General John
Eaton was elected delegate to the general
meeting of the American Social Science Asso-
ciation at Saratoga, September 5, 1881, and
Hon. John Hitz was elected alternate. Mrs.
Spencer, who, at the May meeting, was elected
delegate to the convention of the Associated
Charities Department of American Social
Science Association at Boston, July 25, re-
quested that an alternate be elected. Mrs.
Walling was elected alternate. Instructions
were then given as to the subjects the District
association desired their delegate to represent
at this Boston conference. It was especially
urged that the duty the whole country owes to
the charities and other interests of this national
capital be clearly stated. The resident mem-
bers of the American Social Science Associa-
tion in Washington are Pres. Garfield, Gen.
Francis A. Walker, Hon. John Eaton, Presi-
dent Welling, of Columbia College, President
Gallaudet, of the Deaf Mute Asylum, Charles
Nordhoff, of the Herald, and (ex-officio) the
president, secretary and treasurer of the Dis-
trict of Columbia Association.—The Evening
Star, Washington, D. C.
	SPENCERIAN Business College Commence-
ment, May 25, 1881. Lincoln Hall, Washing-
ton, D. C., was beautifully decorated in honor
of the graduating class of 1881. "The stage
was gracefully draped with flags and streamers,
and adorned with the shields of the States and
nations represented by the graduates, and in
the foreground were banks of floral offerings
from admiring friends."
	There was music by Donch's orchestra, and
Professor and Mrs. Spencer, Rev. Chauncey
Giles, President of the Swedenborgian Conven-
tion, Hon. Francis A. Walker, Superintendent
of the Census, and other distinguished people
were upon the platform. The salutatory was
delivered by D. E. McIlhinny, in which he

[Column 2]
made a hit at the lavish waste of time by the
U. S. Senate, which was heartily applauded;
Following this a piano solo, Oberon, and then
"the ladies' valedictory was delivered by Miss
Adele M. Garesche, of Missouri. It was a fine
production, teeming with rich thought, the
chief idea being that although woman's pur-
pose in life will ever be to secure the happiness
of those dear to her, yet all humanity should
be dear to her, and her sphere limited only by
her capacity."
	Valedictory in behalf of the gentlemen
graduates gave evidence of original thought
and close observation of men and events. "He
made a strong argument in favor of business
pursuits as developing the resources, founding
and sustaining the charities and improving the
condition of the whole world. His voice and
bearing and the fine points he made won re-
peated applause."
	Piano solo, The Storm, by a young lady.
	Mrs. Sara A. Spencer addressed the lady
graduates, telling them the world needed them
somewhere, and she trusted they would not
cheapen the value of their labor by besieging
members of Congress for "influence" to get a
chance to earn their bread. A Cabinet minis-
ter (Secretary Windom) had told her three-
fourths of his time was consumed in this man-
ner. She said Gen. Francis A. Walker had
reformed the civil service by setting an exam-
ple which other departments must soon follow,
of appointing women and promoting them
upon merit and efficiency on equal terms with
men."
	Prof. Spencer addressed the young gentle-
men, "calling their attention to the inspiring
history of James A. Garfield."
	"Rev. Chauncey Giles gave them an open
secret to business success—a worthy purpose."
	"Gen. Francis A. Walker then made a brief
but eloquent address, in which he stated his
own personal experience with the graduates of
the Spencerian Business College. He said the
work in his bureau was for a limited time, but
being statistical it was a severe test of mental
training and executive ability. He presented
a schedule containing the names of seventeen
graduates of this college in his bureau. Of
these not one had proven unreliable or incom-
petent or inefficient. All were ranked above
the average, and nine had attained the highest
possible record in their divisions. In behalf
of the public service it gave him pleasure to
say he would regard a diploma of graduation
from the Spencerian Business College as a suf-
ficient guarantee of qualifications without fur-
ther endorsement. It gave him peculiar pride
and pleasure to award the diplomas to this class
of '81."
	"He then, in a most pleasing and graceful
manner, awarded the diplomas."


RESPECT.
				  -----
	A surprise party took place June 27 at Bro.
Jones’ residence Hoytsville in honor of his
daughter, Sister Emma Webb, who is about to
leave this Ward. She has been President of
the Young Ladies Association for a long time
and Assistant Sec'y. of the Relief Society and
a faithful teacher in the Sunday School ever
since its organization. The Young Ladies and
and sisters of the Relief Society met and spent
a pleasant evening, we had singing and a re-
citation and the sisters expressed their good
wishes and thanked her for past services. The
President of the Relief Society presented her
with the book of Sister E.R. Snow’s Poems,
and the young ladies with other presents to
which she responded gratefully, and exhorted
the young ladies and rising generation to be
faithful, honest, truthful and virtuous. We
closed by singing and prayer at ten o’clock.
				MARTHA WILENSON.


IT is expected that Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson will
lecture in Ogden, Logan, Kaysville, Farming-
ton and Salt Lake City, during the coming
month. Sister Ferguson's ability as a lectnrer
is highly spoken of both here and in the States
where she resided before coming to Utah.


PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
				MRS. C. E. DYE,

	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
	to call  her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
	NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
	nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
	Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
	shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
	Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP.
		PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
Office and residence over the Contributor Office, north of Z.C.M.I
	Obstetrics and Diseases of Woman and Children as specialities.

THE LADIES	
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
			      BEST SELECTED STOCK of BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS.
	Also, full and desirable liines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
found in the West			 Your Orders are Solicited.
					GEO. DUNFORD
_________________________________________________________

				    F. AUERBACH &BRO.
		HAVE
REMOVED THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
Spring and Summer Goods.

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.

Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
	PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired on short notice.  Orders from
	the country promptly responded to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City

Z.C.M.I.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
		     DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
			    HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE, GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
		     AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, Etc.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
		 Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
		 Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hardware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S.P. TEASDEL.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
					      FURNITURE,
  SPRING BEDS, WIRE, MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
AND
BABY CARRIAGES,
75,77, & 79, FIRST SOUTH STREET, 
SALT LAKE CITY

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.

OFFICE-- Up Stairs, in old Constitution Building.
Residence--Six blocks East of Post Office, South side
of street.
Special study has been given to Obstetries, Diseases of
     Women, and DISEASES of the EYE and EAR.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations
VOL. 10. 		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1, 1881.		NO. 5.


[Column 1]
AN INDIAN AT THE BURIAL-PLACE
		OF HIS FATHERS.

	MRS. E. B. WELLS:—Will you please copy into the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT, the following poem from the pen
of Wm. Cullen Bryant.
	When in St. George I promised a copy to some of my
friends in that place, and feel assured that its re-publica-
tion would be a gratification to many.		E. R. S. S. 

	"It is the spot I came to seek—
	My father's acnient burial-place,
	Ere from these vales, ashamed and weak,
	Withdrew our wasted race.
	It is the spot I know it well—
	Of which our old traditions tell

	"For here the upland bank sends but
	A ridge toward the river-side;
	I know the shaggy hills about,
	The meadows smooth and wide,
	The plain, that, toward the southern sky
	Fenced east and west by mountains lie

	"A white man gazing on the scene,
	Would say a lovely spot was here,
	And praise the lawns, so fresh and green,
	Between the hills so sheer.
	I like it not, I would the plain
	Lay in its tall old groves again.

	"The sheep are on the slopes around,
	The cattle in the meadows feed,
	And laborers turn the crambling ground,
	Or drop the yellow seed,
	And prancing steeds in trappings gay,
	Whirl the bright chariot o'er the way.

	"Methinks it were a nobler sight.
	To see these vales in woods arrayed,
	Their summits in the golden light
	Their trunks in grateful shade,
	And herds of deer that boundless go
	O'er hills and prostrate trees below.

	"And then to mark the lord of all,
	The forest hero trained to wars,
	Quivered and plumed, and lithe and tall,
	And scamed with glorious scars,
	Walk forth, amid his reign to dare
	The wolf, and grapple with the bear.

	"This bank in which the dead are laid,
	Was sacred when its soil was ours;
	Hither the silent Indian maid
	Brought wreaths of beads and flowers,
	And the gray chief and gifted seer
	Worshiped the God of thunders here.

	"But now the wheat is grown and high
	On clods that hid the warrior's breast,
	And scattered in the furrows lie
	The weapons of his rest,
	And there, in the loose award is thrown
	Of his large arm the mouldering bone.

	Ah, little thought the strong and brave
	Who bore their lifeless chieftain forth—
	Or the young wife that weeping gave
	Her first-born to the earth,
	That the pale race who waste us now,
	Among their bones should guide the plough.

	"They wast us—ay—like April snow
	In the warm noon, we shrink away
	And fast they follow as we go
	Toward the setting day—
	Till they shall fill the land, and we
	Are driven into the Western sea.

	"But I behold a fearful sign,
	To which the white man's eyes are blind;
	Their race may vanish hence, like mine,
	And leave no trace behind,
	Save ruins o'er the regions spread,
	And the white stones above the dead!

	"Before these fields were shorn and tilled,
	Full to the brim our rivers flowed;

[Column 2]
	The melody of waters filled
	The fresh and boundless wood:
	And torrents dashed and rivulets played, 
	And fountains spouted in the shade.

	"Those grateful sounds are heard no more, 
	The springs are silent in the sun;
	The rivers by the blackened shore, 
	With lessening current run;
	The realm our tribes are crushed to get
	May be a barren desert yet."


[Column 1]
THE PILGRIM MOTHERS AND HER-
	OINES OF THE REVOLUTION.

		BY M. ELIZABETH LITTLE. 

	The fortitude of the Pilgrim Fathers has been
praised for the last 250 years, and the daring
deeds of the heroes of the revolution have been
extolled ever since the great event of July 4th,
1776. But who has descanted on the virtues
and fortitude of the Pilgrim Mothers, and on
the moral courage of the heroines of the Am-
erican revolution. While the hearts of the
fathers and sons, in the struggle for the free-
dom of our country, were fired with the wrongs
they had received and they stood forth in bat-
tle array determined that it should be liberty or
death; where were the wives and mothers?
Were they not actuated by the same spirit?
Was not the yearning for liberty as strong in
their breasts as in those of the fathers and sons!
When the cry rang through the land, To Arms!
To Arms! Did they not like the Spartan
mothers with cheerful face though bleeding
heart commend them to the gods?
	Hark! to the distant roar of the cannon
the enemy is in the distance. The streets are
lined with the heroes of 76. The beating of
the drums and the clarion notes of the bugle
call them to action.
	The prancing of the horses and the bright
uniforms of the leaders, fires the hearts and
sends the warm blood thrilling through the
veins of the husbands and sons, and in the excite-
ment of the times, they think not of the danger
that awaits them. But, in times of danger,
woman's heart takes in the whole. While she
in part partakes of the same patriotic spirit
her racked brain conjures up untold miseries
for the dear ones, soon to pass from sight.
Look! at that wife with babe in arms and the
little ones around her. Note the pale face,
the tear in the eye, the anguish of that swelling
bosom as she bids God speed to the husband of
her youth, and father of her children. See!
the clinging embrace of that mother as she
clasps her only son to her breast, perhaps for
the last time. Picture to yourself the heart
sickening anxieties of the wives and mothers
in that long and dreary winter, when their
husbands and sons were suffering the greatest
privations at Valley Forge. When even the
frozen ground was marked with the bloody
foot prints of the dear ones. O, the watching
and waiting the sleepless nights and shadowy
days, the torture of that long dream of suspense
none but a woman's heart can feel. Think of
all the scenes, and tell me if the wives and
mothers were not as patriotic and self-sacrific-
ing as the fathers and sons. True they gave
not their blood on the battle field; but they
gave what is far more dear to a woman's heart—
their husbands and sons.
	With joy we hail the birth-day of our beloved
country and while we are partaking of the rich

[Column 2]
benefits derived from the glorious triumph
gained by the fathers of our country, let us not
forget the mothers.
	With joy we honor and reverence the mem-
ory of the heroes of 76. May their noble deeds
never be forgotten. And thrice blessed be the
memory of the heroines for like the widow
whom the Savior extolled, they gave their all.


MISS MATTIE PAUL HUGHES, M.D.
				------
	We publish below a notice from the Marine
City Reporter, Michigan, of a very delicate op-
eration performed by the young lady whose
name we give here, a girl well known and
highly esteemed in Utah. We rejoice in the
success she has achieved in the honorable pro-
fession she has chosen. Considering Miss
Mattie was so long a typo for the EXPONENT,
it is not remarkable that we should feel very
proud of her attainments. She is all the more
entitled to admiration, than she has by persev-
erance, industry and self-denial made her
own way in the face of difficulty, although she
has had many friends here, who have encour-
aged her and helped her forward and has gained
many among those with whom she has been
associated while absent.
	Utah has now quite a number of lady physici-
ans, who are practising very successfully among
the people. Strangers visiting here are quite
surprised when we tell them, that we have
graduated lady doctors, as they have been in-
formed previously we were all kept in ignorance
as regarded any of the higher walks of educa-
tion.  
	"A very skillful surgical operation pertain-
ing to vesico-vaginal festula was performed in
Algonac, on Wednesday, by Miss Mattie P.
Hughes, M.D., with the assistance of Drs.
Moore, of Algonac, and W.H. Smith, of St.
Clair. Dr. Slocum had been invited to take
part in the operation, but declined to play
"second fiddle" to a woman, nevertheless, neither
Dr. Moore, who is a graduate of McGill College,
Montreal, nor Dr. Smith, who ranked at the
head of his class when in Michigan University,
and who has since not only been an unusually
successful practitioner, but has received the
commendation of the scientific press and schol-
ars of the Old World for his writings, felt that
they were compromising their dignity by assist-
ing a lady in a very difficult operation upon one
of her own sex. Especially is this true, when the
lady in question is such a genial and accom-
plished woman as Miss Hughes, who not only
graduated from the Medical Department Mich-
igan University with a reputation for superior
scholarship but is possessed of a courage and
self-reliance, an obliging disposition and a lady
like deportment which at once commend her
to general favor. In the above case this young
lady physician took the principal part in the
work, and thus demonstrated by actual experi-
ence that some of her sex at least are capable
of performing the most difficult and complicated
operations in medical practice.


THIS year 612 female artists were represented
at the Paris Salon. One hundred and ninety-
eight exhibited pictures, 365 water-colors,
drawings, or faiences, and forty-nine sculptures.
Eight were among the medaled or Ihonorably
mentioned.


34	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SCENES IN NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	The second winter after my father left us
we were once more in the enjoyment of health
William and I attended school taught in a
room belonging to Brother Winchester by Jus-
tin Johnson brother to Mrs. Marinda Hyde,
who was living in our neighborhood. The
next summer William went to live with an old
friend Dr. F. G. William's, in Upper Com-
merce and by this means was able to clothe
himself and help mother. While living there
a circus came through and he knowing that I
had never seen one came up to take me with
him, but found me very sick, as I had been
again attacked with chills and fever and was so
delirious that I knew nothing about his coming.
I mention this circumstance to show how long
a time we were afflicted with this disease, after
a short recovery we would be again taken with
a relapse. Those who were strong enough wore
it out in time, but many died because they were
previously worn out and had not sufficient
vitality to battle with this and other diseases
brought on by suffering and privation and they
died martyrs to the truth.
	In the mean time the Apostles were perform-
ing a mighty work in Europe and many of the
Saints had come to Zion with songs of rejoicing
bringing welcome messages from the absent
ones, as well as many little gifts presented them
by the Saints in England. This seemed to les-
sen the distance between us and to make the
weeks and months pass more swiftly and our
bodily afflictions were less tedious to bear.
Brother William Clayton and his wife's family,
the Moons, were among them and also Thomas
	Walmesly and wife and many more who came
over were among my father's first converts.
They had powerful testimonies to bear, one of
them I will mention.
	When my father first visited Mr. Walmesly
he found his wife sick of consumption, and had
been for several years and was reduced to a
mere skeleton; and was given up to die, by the
doctors. My father after preaching the Gospel
to her, promised her in the name of the Lord
Jesus Christ if she would believe, repent and
be baptized, she should be healed. She was
carried to the water and after her baptism she
began to mend, and at her confirmation she
was blest, and her disease rebuked, when she
immediately recovered and in less than one
week she was attending to her household duties,
I have heard her bear testimony to this miracle
many times. They are now living in Bear
Lake Valley, Oneida Co. Idaho. When they
came to Nauvoo they found us sick and they
administered to our comfort. Among those
who came over were "well to do" people, and
they had assisted some of the poor Saints to
Zion. The majority of them were of the poor
and meek of the earth but none the less to
show their love they desired to give some little
token, if it was but a toy, and would insist
upon the brethren taking them to the children.
All who knew my father heard him speak of
his little girl, and many and various were the
things sent me, numerous handkerchiefs were
among them, which generally had Queen Vic.,
as she was commonly called, and Prince Albert
printed on them; her Majesty having lately
been crowned Queen of Great Britain.
	I also received a variety of pretty little china
dishes and a box of wooden ones as well as china
dolls; but during the time my father was absent
his little girl had grown to be a large one and
by her seniors was considered entirely too old
to play with them and pride forbade that I
should do what they thought improper so I gave
many away retaining only the useful and those
suitable for ornaments; but after I had laid
aside my own dolls etc., and childish enjoy-
ments I remember the pleasure I took in mak-

[Column 2]
ing and dressing them for others younger than
myself. I sometimes think it a mistaken idea
in American mothers to want their daughters
to become sedate and womanly before they
have fairly reached their teens. We can never
be young but once in this life and I like child-
ren to enjoy themselves while they can for they
will grow old soon enough.
	I will mention a little incident that hap-
pened the summer previous to my father's re-
turn. The Prophet and two or three brethren
had called at our house to hear a letter read
from father, and when they rose to leave, Jo-
seph, who stood by the bureau, where a couple
of china dolls were standing upon two large
salt cellars, which had also been sent from
England to my mother, while he was talking
took one up to look at, but in replacing it
sat it upon one side, when it fell, breaking the
head off; he merely remarked: "As that has
fallen, so shall the heathen gods fall." I stood
there a silent observer, unable to understand
or appreciate the prophetic words, but thought
them a rather weak apology for breaking my
doll's head off. My mother afterwards mended
it, and though like most of us it shows signs of
age, and that it has passed through many or-
deals, yet I have kept it, with two or three
other little tokens which I received from Eng-
land, and they serve as reminders of scenes
"some forty years ago."
	My brother William and I received each a
beautifully bound Book of Mormon from
Uncle Brigham Young, with our names printed
upon the back in gilt letters, and father sent
the same to Brigham Young's daughters, Eliz-
abeth and Vilate. I have read mine through
by course more times than any book I ever
saw, and each time it has proved more interest-
ing; I was never more deeply fascinated by a
novel than I have been with the Book of Mor-
mon. There is but one fault which I find with
it—the print is so fine that many times I have
been forced to stop reading it; and this, I be-
lieve, prevents many from reading it who
otherwise would, as some who are not of our
faith but are friendly to this people, have men-
tioned this to me, and said it was the only rea-
son why they did not read it. This I think is
a great pity.
	The following historical items are interesting
and ought to be known by our sons and daugh-
ters, and by the world, who think we are a low,
ignorant, degraded people, because our enemies
say we are, forsooth. "The charter for the city
of Nauvoo, including charters for the Nauvoo
Legion and the University of the city of Nau-
voo, was signed by Governor Thomas Carlin
on the 16th of December, 1840, and took effect
from the 1st of February.	*	*	*	The
24th section empowered the City Council to
establish within the limits of the city an insti-
tution for the teaching of the arts, sciences
and learned professions, to be called the 'Uni-
versity of the City of Nauvoo,' The 25th in-
vested it with power to organize the inhabit-
ants of the city, subject to military duty, into
a body of independent military men, to be
called the 'Nauvoo Legion.' The Legion was
to perform the same amount of military duty
as was then, or thereafter might be, required
of the regular militia of the State, and was at
the disposal of the Mayor in executing the
laws and ordinances of the city corporation, and
the laws of the State and of the United States,
and was entitled to its proportion of the public
arms. The Legion was exempt from all other
military duty." This act was considered a
very liberal one, and the Prophet said: "I con-
cocted it for the salvation of the Church, and
on principles so broad that every honest man
might dwell secure under its protective influ-
ence, without distinction of sect or party."
After laying this foundation for the gathering
of the Saints, the First Presidency and the
Twelve Apostles exhorted those who had capi-

[Column 3]
tal to establish manufactories in the city, that
employment might be given to the poor and
the laboring classes as they arrived; and the
Prophet, with Sidney Rigdon and Hyrum
Smith, issued a proclamation inviting the
wealthy to remove to Nauvoo and neighbor-
hood, and establish and build up manufactories
and to pnrchase and cultivate farms, that a
permanent inheritance might be secured and
the way prepared for the poor Saints who were
desirous of gathering to Zion. An early ordi-
nance passed by the corporation provided that
"all religious sects and denominations should
have free toleration and equal privileges within
the city, and that any person ridiculing or
abusing another on account of his religious
belief, should, on conviction thereof before the
Mayor or Municipal Court, be fined in any
sum not exceeding $500, or imprisoned not ex-
ceeding six months."
	"On the 3d of February ordinances were
passed organizing the Nauvoo Legion and the
University," and one was passed regulating the
sale of intoxicating liquors, with a view to pre-
vent the introduction of drunkenness into the
city. "On the 10th of March the State Legis-
latnre passed 'An act to incorporate the Nau-
voo Agricultural and Manufacturing Associa-
tion in the county of Hancock.'"
	Those who say that the "Mormons" came
out from civilization of their own accord and
desire, to indulge in wickedness, idleness and
degradation, should read and try to under-
stand the truth concerning us. We never
thought of withdrawing from the world until
they compelled us to. We never desired to
leave our homes and the graves of our loved
ones to seek a desolate, barren and secluded
spot like this. No; we desired to dwell in
peace with the world and to benefit all man-
kind. But they would not let us live with
them and enjoy the same liberty and rights
which they were permitted to enjoy with us in
our beautiful city; but we were driven away
from them in a FREE country, and we endured
suffering from fatigue, cold and hunger, and
passed through heartrending scenes which no
pen can describe, to seek a resting place be-
yond the Rocky Mountains upon Mexican soil,
because we loved our religion more than we did
our homes or our lives. We have proved how
we loved it and our husbands and children,
and would to God that every good man and
woman could see the door which is open for
their deliverance, more especially the "down-
trodden women" of the world. Now we are
blessed with homes of our own and an abun-
dance of God's mercies, we invite our good
sisters to come here and to put aside prejudice
and open their eyes and ears and understand
that the women of this Church are the true
Sisters of Charity," for they have no desire but
to benefit the human family, although the
course which is taken towards us is calculated to
tear open the old wounds, reminding us of the
bitter wrongs which have never been redressed;
but we know what a cup of bitterness awaits
those who have persecuted and slain the inno-
cent, and the worst feeling I cherish towards
any one of them is pity, because "they know
not what they do."

To be continued.


MRS. Mary A. Livermore has been tendered
a great many flattering receptions from distin-
guished people in London, Eng.  On account
of the cold, damp weather in that city she has
gone to the sunny hills of Switzerland, where
she hopes to recuperate thoroughly after her
hard winter's lecturing.  She will sail in the
"Scythia," for Boston, on the 20th of August,
making her sojourn in all about three months.
-Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
PEN SKETCH OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS
			WOMAN.

	   ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.

		     CONTINUED. 

 Although the life of the lady who is the sub-
ject of this sketch had always been full of labor
and good works, public and private, yet
after entering upon the seventies at a 
time when most people think they must retire
from active duty, her life seems to have been
more continuously occupied with arduous labors
than before.  In October 1875 when prepar-
tions were being made for the great Centennial
Exposition at Philadelphia the Executive De-
partment engaged in that work wrote to Miss
Eliza R. Snow under date of Oct. 29, 1875, an
official letter authorizing her to act as President
of the "Woman's Centennial Executive Com-
mittee" for Utah, and sent such papers and
documents as would aid her in the responsible
undertaking.  To effect the object of preparing
for suitable representation at the exhibition,
required a great deal of management and ac-
cordingly Sister Eliza issued a circular to the
Relief Societies, Young Ladies Associations
and the Women of Utah generally; soliciting
them to prepare "specimens of all useful and 
ornamental home industries of woman's work,
also all natural curiosities of their own collect-
ing etc., etc.  These were all to be forwarded
by the first of March to Mrs. E. D. Gillespie
Pres. Woman's Centennial Executive Com-
mittee at Philadelphia.  From that time she
spared no pains to bring about the desired ar-
rangements. It required more labor and cal-
culation than one might think perhaps, for
there were meetings to be held, letters to be
written to all parts, answers to be made to in-
numberable questions, verbal and by mail, and
many little items to be attended to, and the 
great burden of the responsibility and labor
devolving upon her.  I have often thought it
wonderful in looking back, how she accomplished
so much in that short time.  It proves how suc-
cessful were her methods of reaching the
people.
 During all that year there seemed to be an 
accumulation of labor pressing upon the L. D.
S., women of Utah, and all looking to Sister
Eliza as the head and front of the work, which
caused her to be more sought after and kept her
employed heart and hands, and required her
mind to be drawn out in giving counsel to others.
It was impossible to procure space for Utah to
be properly represented as we had desired, on 
account of the Gentleman's Executive Com-
mittee for Utah postponing their arrangements
for securing space until so late, and therefore
Sister Eliza and the Committee associated with
her deemed it the better plan to send only a
few of the best fabrics and materials to the
Centennial Exhibition, and open a Fair here
at home.  As there were many passing to and
from California and other parts visiting the
Centennial it would be an attraction for such
visitors, as well as a benefit to our own com-
munity.  Accordingly the Constitution Build-
ing was fitted up to display the articles on ex-
hibition.  Sister Eliza had charge of the affair
with some other ladies as assistants who were
valuable aids.  The Fair opened on the fourth
of July 1876 the same as the Centennial Fair.
President Brigham Young made an appropriate
opening address to a large and appreciative
audience.
 The Fair having been formally opened peo-
ple flocked in and for a few days it was crowded
constantly.  There were many things that at-
tracted the attention of strangers and tourists,
and Sister Eliza presiding there as she did with
the grace and dignity of a very queen and yet
with the simplicity of manner that bespeaks at
once rare nobility, made it very interesting for
all who called to see, or to purchase any of the
almost innumerable variety exhibited.
 During that year Sister Eliza conversed
with thousands of casual callers, among whom 
were people of celebrity from different parts of
the world, and in this way she did good mis-
sionary work, and has no doubt scattered the 
seeds of truth in the hearts of many.  On the
24th, of the same month, Pioneer Day, the
citizens of Salt Lake joined those in Ogden
and that vicinity in celebrating the advent of
the pioneers of '47 and Sister Eliza was called
upon to write the address, for that accasion,
which was read by David McKenzie, and was
said to have been one of the best things she
ever wrote, it was patriotic and inspiring; she
was also requested to write a song for the
Ogden choir to open the ceremonies with which
we publish in full.
			HYMN OF PRAISE.
COMPOSED FOR THE OCCASION BY MISS E. B. SNOW.

Great Source of Good- our Father God-
God of Eternity,
Who spread creation's form abroad- 
All praise is due to Thee.

This day in vast assembly met,
All hearts, as one, should raise
In grateful strains, to celebrate
Thy love, and sing Thy praise.

We know Thy voice- we own Thy hand,
We recognize Thy power:
Thy finger pointed to this land,
In persecution's hour.

Thy wisdom, man's unerring guide,
His bark of life to steer-
Thy people's trust, whate'er betide-
Thy wisom led us here.

Thy blessing crown'd our earnest toil,
And made the desert bloom;
And drew the products from the soil,
In this, our mountain home.

To Thee, the highest notes we'll raise- 
The noblest tribute pay-
To Thee devote the sweetest lays,
On this illustr'ous day.

 The Fair, opened by the ladies in Salt Lake
City lasted until the 2d. of September when
Sister Eliza expressed in a Valedictory the
result of the efforts and appreciation. 
 The following paragraph quoted here will
give the reader some idea of the labor.
 "The interest manifested by those who have
visited the Fair has been very gratifying, and
constitutes the most desirable present success.
We have taken pride in exhibiting from day 
to day the beautiful articles of taste and utility
(many of them produced entirely from the ele-
ments of Utah,) manufactured by the skill and
industry of the people of our Territory, and
humbly trust that our united efforts in our
Centennial Exhibition will prove instrunental
in stimulating to greater energies and be pro-
ductive of much good in encouraging home-
industries."
 To promote the growth and establishment of
home-industries among the people, President
Young called a meeting of the Sisters to be
held Oct. 4th, in the Council House, to make
some arrangements to establish a woman's store
for promoting the sale of home manufactures.
The meeting was so large that it was adjourned
to the Old Tabernacle.  Pres. Young not be-
ing able to attend he addressed to the sisters
a letter which was read and commented upon
by his private secretary, 'Elder George Rynolds.
At that meeting an organization was formed by 
electing Eliza R. Snow, President, also a Vice
President, Secretary, Treasurer and four direc-
tors constituting, a complete board of officers
and the organization was called "The Relief
Society Woman's Cooperative Assocation."
			To be continued.


You. cannot sin without sacrifice.-Buxton.

If there is any great or good thing in store
for you; it will not come at the first or second
call.—Emerson.


SOJOURNER TRUTH.
[SELECTED.]
 There are a great many things in the new
history of woman suffrage agitation, great
speeches, great advances of reform—but the
most splendid individual triumph was that of
Sojourner Truth, the Libyan sibyl, when she sa-
ved a Wwoman Suffrage convention from wreck.
 It was a meeting opened to debate,and the men
used to debating rallied in force and quite
abolished the courtesy to "the fair sex."  The
ministers were the worst of the lot, the most
dictatorial and insulting; one claimed that
man’s superior intellect entitled him to superior
privileges; one that Eye brought sin and
death into the world, and was therefore the
servant of man forever; another that the man-
hood of Christ was a sign of the leadership of
man, etc. The women were new to the buisness
and quite unequal to the fight;  they were in
fact ready to break down, get into a passion
and cry. Then, says Mrs. Frances D. Gage,
“slowly from her seat in the corner rose Soj-
ourner, who till now had scarcely lifted her-
head. ‘Don’t let her speak!’ gasped half a
dozen in my ear. She moved slowly and
solemnly to the front,laid her old bonnet at my
feet, and turned her great speaking eyes to me.
She spoke with those eyes piercing the upper-
air like one in a dream.” Hear a few of her
sentences—they have been printed before and
will bear to be printed many times more:
“Dat man ober dar say dat womin needs to
be helped into cahriges and lifted ober ditches
and to hab de best place eberywhar. Nobody
eber helps me into cahriges, or ober mud pud-
dles, or gibs me any best place.” And raising
herself to her full hight and her voice to a pitch
like rolling thunder, she asked, “And an't I a
woman? Look at me. Look at my arm,” (and
she bared her right arm to the shoulder, show-
ing her tremendous muscular power.) “I have
plowed, and planted, and gathered into Barns,
and no man could head me.  And an’t I a
woman?  I could work as much and eat as
much as a man—when I could get it—and bear
de lash as well. And an’t I a woman ? I have
borne 13 children and seen ’em mos' all sold off
to slavery, and when I cried out with my moth-
er's grief, none but Jesus heard me. And an’t
I a woman?
"Den dey talks about dis ting in the head—
what dis dey call it?” (“intellect,” whispered
some one near.) “Dat’s it, honey. What’s
that got to do with wimin’s rights or niggers
rights ? If my cup won’t hold but a pint and
yourn holds a quart, wouldn’t you be mean not
to let me have my little half-measure full ?
“Den, dat little man in black dar, he say
women can’t have as much rights as men cause
Christ wasn’t a woman!  Whar did your Christ
come from ?’ ’With outstretched arms and eyes
of fire, raising her voice louder, she repeated.
“Whar did your Christ come from? From God
and a woman!  man had nothin’ to do with
him!”


THE condition of the Czar is occasioning
great anxiety among the members of the Eng-
lish Royal family, plainly stated his Majesty,
it is feared, is mentally deranged. He suffers
from insomnia, with all the attendant con-
sequences of that disease. His face is described
as wan, and the whilom burly and muscular
frame as shrunken. He cannot eat, and sternly
declines to take exercise or recreation of any
kind, preferring to occupy his room, which is
strongly guarded, while its morbid and shrivel-
led occupant is a prey to the most active
fears.


36	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00 one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Connell
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, AUGUST 1, 1881.


[Column 1]

DEATH OF PRESIDENT JOSEPH YOUNG.

	The death of this great and good man occurred
on Saturday morning, July 16, about four o'clock,
at his home in the 18th Ward. Uncle Joseph,
as he was affectionately styled by the people,
had been suffering for the past two months with
weakness and general debility. It was only
natural it should be so at his advanced age. Sev-
eral times during the last year he has been una-
ble to leave home for several days together, and
sometimes not for weeks; still he was bright and
cheerful, glad to see his friends, and all the time
rejoicing in the truths of the Gospel he so dearly
loved. The last time he was out was at the fu-
neral of his niece, Mrs. Fanny Little, wife of
the Mayor, and there he preached an eloquent,
earnest and consoling discourse Brother Young
delighted in comforting and soothing sorrow and
distress, and was particularly gifted in this re-
spect. His heart was always full of blessings,
and his language never seemed to fail in giving
full and free expression to the sentiments of his
soul. He always seemed to have a calm and
peaceful spirit, and was most happily gifted in
imparting that feeling to others.
	It is said that this good man passed away with-
out a struggle or a gasp, and this seems in keep-
ing with his peaceful disposition. An angel of
peace seemed to hover over and attend him al-
ways, and when his time had fully come and the
heavenly escort was in view, his assurance was
no doubt so perfect that in the language of the
poet these words might be significant of his de-
parture to that "other shore,"
			"Sustained and soothed
	By an unfaltering trust, approach thy grave,
	Like one that wraps the drapery of his couch
	About him, and lies down to pleasant dreams."
Only Uncle Joseph is not dreaming, he has
passed the ordeal that gives him abundant en-
trance into the mansions of glory, where a host
of friends bade him welcome, and no doubt
shouted hosanna on his arrival.
	Joseph Young, Sen., the subject of this me-
moir, was born April 7, 1797, in Hopkinton, Mid-
dlesex County, Mass, and was the second son of
John Young and Nabbie Howe.
	He received the Gospel while residing in
Canada, and was at that time an earnest and
devoted Methodist preacher. His brother, the
late President Brigham Young, brought him the
glad tidings of the Everlasting Gospel and of the
Latter-day work, and he received it readily and
was very soon after baptized. He gathered with
the Church in Kirtland at a very early period,
and was one of the first Seventies ordained.
February 28, 1835, he was called by the Prophet
Joseph Smith to be the First President of all the
Seventies, which position he held from that time
until his demise. He was one of the famous

[Column 2]

Zion's Camp, which went up to Missouri in 1834,
and endured at that time much privation and
hardship. He was at the horrible massacre at
Haun's Mill, and barely made his escape alive;
on the following day he returned and helped to
bury the dead, although he was one of the most
tender-hearted men who ever lived, yet he as-
sisted at that dreadful burial, the details of which
are too horrifying to mention.
	Brother Young was one of the first settlers in
Nauvoo, where he had a comfortable home and
surroundings, after the persecutions of Missouri,
but was forced to leave it and become again an
exile, in 1846, when the Saints were compelled
to leave their beautiful city in the middle of
winter. He remained at Winter Quarters until
1850, when he crossed the plains with his family
in ox teams, and settled in Salt Lake City, where
he has ever since resided. He has traveled and
preached extensively in the Territory, and in
1870 visited the British Isles, and preached
in the old world. He was greatly beloved by
the people everywhere, and was one of those
lovable dispositions that always attract those
with whom they are associated. He was a benev-
olent and merciful man, full of kindness and
good works. He was full of integrity to the
cause he had espoused, and never wearied of
proclaiming its principles.
	He has lived a life of virtue, purity and up-
rightness, and his loss will be sincerely mourned
by thousands. He had attained the advanced
age of eighty-four years, three months and nine
days, and in the language of Scripture, "has
gone as a shock of corn fully ripe," to receive
the crown prepared for the faithful who serve
God and keep His commandments.
	The funeral of Pres. Joseph Young was held
in the large Tabernacle in this city on Tuesday,
July 19, at eleven o'clock a. m., and was attended
by thousands of the Latter-day Saints. The
services were conducted by Elder Horace S. El-
dredge, who had been intimately associated with
him in his office.
	There was music by the brass band, followed
by the choir (Uncle Joseph was passionataly fond
of music). Prayer by Apostle F. D. Richards.
Singing. The speakers were Pres. Wilford
Woodruff, Pres. George Q. Cannon and Pres.
John Taylor, all expressing the highest regard
for the deceased, enumerating his many excel-
lent qualities of heart and mind, and extolling
his integrity to the Gospel. There was solemn
music by the Careless Orchestra, the choir sang,and the benediction was pronounced by Pres.
Joseph F. Smith, which concluded the ceremo-
nies at the Tabernacle.
	The casket containing the remains was pro-
fusely ornamented with exquisite flowers, artis-
tically arranged in crosses, crowns, anchors and
bouquets, and a sheaf of wheat fully ripe, em-
blematical of the full life, was bound with a
white ribbon, on which was printed in gold let-
ters the appropriate words, "Well done, good
and faithful servant." Above it was a sickle
decorated with pure, white flowers. It was a
beautiful tribute to the memory of the de-
parted.
	Brother Young leaves a large family, who will
miss his fatherly counsel and affection, but they
have a noble example to follow, and may well
be proud of such an illustrious man.
	It is impossible to do justice to the life and
labors of such a man as was President Joseph
Young in words, language fails, but we deeply
reverence his memory, and feel assured it will
be ever fresh in the hearts of the Saints. Let
us who remain emulate his virtues and strive
to attain that heavenly patience, resignation
and humility that characterized the life of
Uncle Joseph Young.





LADY OFFICERS.

	Having been often inquired of in regard to
the names of ladies holding offices in the Presid-
ing Board of Latter-day Saint women's organi-
zations, it has been thought proper to publish
them, for the benefit of those living at a dis-
tance, that no mistakes need occur.
	RELIEF SOCIETY CENTRAL BOARD.
Eliza R. Snow Smith, President.
Zina D. Young,				Counselors.
Elizabeth Ann Whitney,
Sarah M. Kimball, Secretary.
M. Isabella Horne, Treasurer.

	Y.L.M.I.A. CENTRAL BOARD.
Elmina S. Taylor, President.
Maggie Y. Taylor,
Mattie Horne,					Counselors,
Louie Wells, Secretary.
Fannie Y. Thatcher, Treasurer.

	PRIMARY ASSOCIATION CENTRAL BOARD.
Louie Felt, President,
Matilda M. Barrett,			Counselors.
Clara C. Cannon,
Lillie Freeze, Secretary Minnie Felt, Treasurer.


[Column 1]

	HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE latest news from the Executive Mansions
is favorable to the recovery of the wounded
President. There has been great anxiety on ac-
count of the relapse in his condition.
	ABOUT the middle of September there will be
a Children's Fair held in this city. It is ex-
pected that all the Primary Associations in the
County will assist in making it a success.
	SISTER Elizabeth Ann Whitney, better known
among the Latter-day Saints as Mother Whit-
ney, who has been very ill at the residence of
her daughter, Mrs. Groo, in the 9th Ward, is
much better.
	SISTERS M. Isabella Horne and Elmina S.
Taylor attended the Quarterly Conference of Re-
lief Societies, Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary Asso-
ciations of Morgan Stake, held at Morgan City,
Saturday and Sunday, July 30 and 31.
	THIS is Election Day, when it is expected all
native-born or naturalized citizens interested in
the best welfare of the people of Utah, will go
to the polls and cast a vote for the People's
Ticket. Women should show their appreciation
of the franchise by turning out en masse to the
polls.
	IN regard to publishing Relief Society reports
and minutes, we wish to say, there is not space
for anything more than Stake Conference re-
ports, unless it is a new organization or re-
organization or change of some officers. It
must be clear to every one that with all the sev-
eral organizations and their multitude of
branches, it is impossible to give them all space
for representation. If there is a large gathering,
or special meeting, that is an exception. The
same will apply to the Y. L. M. I. A. and Pri-
mary Associations, except when Primaries have
quarterly meetings or Conferences, in their re-
spective wards; we might give space to such
minutes, or synopsis of meetings.
	A MISSIONARY in Alabama, writing to Sister
Hannah Cornaby after perusing her "Autobiog-
raphy and Poems," says concerning it, "It gave
me much pleasure and brought many scenes to
my mind; sometimes solemn thoughts, then a
smile, again the tears would fill my eyes, &c.
&c. Altogether I feel to say I was very much
entertained; it was like a spring of pure water
in a thirsty land; it made me think of "home


[Column 1]

sweet, sweet home," the home of the Saints of
Prophets and Apostles of God—noble men and
noble women, sons and daughters of Zion."
	No person can read this little book without
feeling better for it, and every honest person who
reads it, must be assured that the writer is a
Saint of God, full of integrity, whatever her pe-
culiar faith may be. To the Latter day Saint
it is full of comfort, and we heartily commend
the book to the people, and would also say that
we believe the book to be a good one to send
abroad. By all means put it into the hands of the
young people of this Church. The Y. L. and
Y. M. Associatious who are getting libraries
should not fail to have this excellent work upon
their list.
	ON Sunday, July 24, we had the pleasure of
attending the services of the dedication of the
Fifteenth Ward Hall of Worship. It is a hand-
some structure of modern architecture, and is
elegantly finished and furnished in every particu-
lar. The Relief Society of the Ward, we are
informed, assisted in the furnishing. It
has large gothic windows with stained glass,
which throw a beautiful light into the apart-
ment; the chandeliers are very handsome, tire
stand is nicely fitted up and is quite spacious;
at either side, upon the same platform, are seats
for officers, or places for reporters' tables. Alto-
gether it is the most unique Hall we have seen
in the city. The members of the Ward have
been dilligent and energetic in getting it com-
pleted and meeting all the expenses of building.
	The dedicatory services commenced at 10
o'clock. Opened by singing, "Softly beams the
sacred dawning." The dedicatory prayer was
earnest and fervent, offered by Pres. George Q.
Cannon. The choir sang "This house we dedi-
cate to Thee." Pres. John Taylor then ad-
dressed the congregation upon the creative
power of the Almighty, and His authority in
the earth, and the necessity of obedience to Him
and His laws. Made reference to the pre-exis-
tence, and also the glorious exaltation which
awaited the faithful behind the vail.
	Elder John Clark read the report of the build-
ing committee, stating that two years previous to
that very day the foundation of the house was
commenced, and now it was completed and free
from debt—at a final cost of $10,644.75.
	Pres. George Q. Cannon made a few remarks,
blessed the people for their liberality, and said
God would bless them. Choir sang the anthem,
"Jehovah's Praise," in which Mrs. Maggie Hull
sang a solo very sweetly, and a duet with Mrs.
Sarah O. Langford, their voices blending harmo-
niously and filling the house with melody. Bene-
diction by Apostle John Henry Smith.
	LADY LECTURERS—Sisters Zina D. Young,
widow of the late President Brigham Young,
and Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson expect to leave this
city on Saturday, the 20th inst., for the Eastern
States. These ladies will speak on the platform,
presenting the Mormon question from a woman's
standpoint. This will be a new departure, as
heretofore "Mormon" women have not gone out
into the world to defend the principles of their
faith. Many inquiries have been made in ref-
erence to the women of Utah socially, politically
and religiously, this they propose to present in
its true light. Mrs. Zina D. Young has been
connected with the Church from an early period
lived in Kirtland, Missouri and Nauvoo, was
with the Saints in the exodus, and has been in-
timately acquainted with all the leading men
and women, as well as the details of Church
history. She is an attractive and pleasing nat-
ural speaker. Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson is an ex-
perienced lecturer, having been in the lecture
field several years before she came to Utah. She
is a woman of fine ability, superior education,

[Column 2]

and is in every way qualified to do justice to the
subjects she may present.  These sisters go with
the approval of the highest quthority, and we
trust will be sustained by the faith and prayers
of the people.
	Sister Zina D. Young will visit her old home
and relatives in the State of New York, and also
the home of her forefathers in New Hampshire,
and gather up genealogical records of her pro-
genitors. Dr. Ferguson expects to attend the 
clinics at Bellevue Hospital, New York during
the coming session of that institution, in order
to obtain a thorough knowledge of the intest
surgical improvements. These sisters are pecu-
liarly well adapted to the mission they are ex-
pected to fill. They are women full of intelli-
gence and thorougly aquainted with "Mor-
mon" themes. There has been so much misrep-
resentation on this subject that it seems only
just and right that our sisters should speak in
their own defense, and place truth in the field,
where error has so long held away.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


OBITUARY.

	The Y. L. M. I. A. of Marriott Ward has sus-
tained a great loss in the death of Mary A.,
daughter of Silas H. and Almina Tracy, who
was born in Weber County April 21, 1857, and
was baptized in the year 1867. Her life was one
of usefulness; she was ever ready to do good,
assisting her parents, helping the poor, and
obeying the counsels of those placed over her in
the Lord. She has been circumspect in all the
walks of life, and consequently above reproach.
She held the office of Assistant Secretary of our
Association, was also an efficient teacher in the
Sunday School, which offices she faithfully filled
until her sickness (consumption) forbade her
attendance. She had been through the House
of the Lord, and received her blessings therein.
Also had been baptized for about thirty of her
relatives. Her life was filled up with purity and
kindness. She endured her long and severe
sufferings with great fortitude, and passed peace-
fully away at her home on the 8th of July, 1881,
aged 24 years, 2 months and 17 days. Her fu-
neral was largely attended, and her remains
were followed to their last resting place in the
Ogden cemetery by a numerous concourse of
relatives and friends. The young ladies decked
her coffin with beautiful wreaths of flowers, of
varied hue, as a token of their respect and high
esteem for their departed friend.
	FRANClS PARRY.


[Column 1]

AMANDA SMITH
[CONCLUDED]
﻿
	Sister Smith has not only been a woman of
great faith and heroism, but she has always been
public-spirited and philanthropical, and on many
occasions rendered efficient aid to others under
trying circumstances, though she earned her
own support with the help of her little boys.
	On the 24th of January 1834, a number of
ladies met together to consider the importance
of organizing a society for the purpose of making
clothes for the Indians and other charitable work,
which was properly organized Feb. 9th. Sister
Smith was one of the officers of the Society,
which resulted in much temporal good being
accomplished. At the time of the reorganiza-
tion of the Relief Society, Sister Smith being a
member of the 12th Ward and known to be a
woman of ability and enterprise as well as charti-
able work, was chosen and set apart by the Bish-
op as First Counselor to the President of the 12th
Ward Society, Mrs. Priscilla M. Staines. She
was an indefatigable laborer in this capacity for
many years, among the poor and sick minister-
ing to both their spiritual and temporal needs.
She never shrank from any duty however ardu-
ous, while her health permitted her to fill the
position. In the hour of death she was always
equal to the emergency encouraging those who
were called to part with their friends and rela-
tives, pointing out to them the glorious hope of

[Column 2]

the Latter-day Saints and in that tender
motherly way which only women of intense
human sympathies can do, softening and alle-
viating the pangs of poignant grief. Thus has
her long and useful life been filled with good
work, and now as the evening time of life appro-
aches, she is still armed with sublime courage
and rich in the faith of the glorious Gospel of
the Son of God.
	In consequence of the many harships
she endured through the persectuions in
Missouri which were heaped upon her and
her family by a relentless mob, her health was
undermined, and as years increased, infirmities
settled upon her which rendered her unable to
retain the position she had held in the Relief
Society. She was honorably released and will
ever be remembered by the Bishop and his Coun-
selors and the members of the ward for her be-
nevolence and self-denial in ministering to the
unfortunate.
	Sister Smith has much to rejoice over even in
her present affiction for she has raised her family
in the principles of the Gospel of Christ and the
fear of God, and they remain true and steadfast
to the faith of the Latter-day work. A good wo-
man who has reared to manhood and womanhood
a large family almost without a father's help is
certainly worthy of commendation and must
have great satisfaction in her life and labor. No
higher compliment, in our opinion could be
paid a woman than that she had succeeded in
raising a good and honorable family; this Sister
Smith has accomplished. She has a comfortable
home in her old age and can "sit under her own
vine and fig tree" figuratively spekaing, the re-
sult of her own hard labor. She has been for
more than fifty years a member of the Church
of Jesus Christ of latter-day Saints, having been
baptized April 1, 1831,—by Elder Simeon D.
Carter.
	There are very few now living who have a
record of more than half a century in this
Church. Sister Smith has endeared herself to a
very large number of the Latter-day Saints, who
are ever read to do her honor for her faith,
integrity, and they many estimable qualitites which
have beautified and adorned her life.
	On the fiftieth anniversary of her baptism,
Mrs. M. A. Freeze addressed a poem to Sister
Amanda Smith, giving a history in verse of
some important events in her life, but it is too long
for publication here. She most appropriately
styles her a veteran in Zion. Such exppressions
of friendship are comforting to those who have
labored hard and long in assisting to establish
the kingdom of God upon the earth. Her testi-
mony of the massacre at Haun's mill in Missouri
is that of an eye witness and participator. In-
deed she might with all propriety be termed the
heroine of that fearful tragedy, for her sublimity
of courage surpassed that of ordinary mortals.
God was with her in his power in her hour of sev-
ere trouble, and she was indeed a host in herself.
In listening even to the recital of those fearful
days, one's heart almost stands still, strong men
tremble and grow pale, and women weep. In
conclusion we would say may heaven's choicest
blessings rest upon her the remainder of her
days, here upon the earth, her heart be filled with
joy and peace ontinually and may she continue
to bear a faithful testimony to the truth and
live until she has accomplished all she has ever
anticipated for the living and the dead.
	E. B. W.


Y. L. M. I. A.

	The Quarterly Conference of Y. L. M. I. A. Salt
Lake Stake was held in the Assembly Hall, Sat-
urday June 8th, 1881. Mrs. M. A. Freeze pre-
siding. Singing. Prayer by Mrs. M. I. Horne,
singing, Minutes of previous Conference read
and accepted, verbal reports given. First Ward
represented by one of the Counselors, 2nd ward
by Miss McGregor, 3d, ward Mrs. Della W. Eardly
9th ward Mrs. Maggie Groo, 10th ward Mrs.
Joslen, 11th ward Louie White, 15th ward Miss
S. E. Russell, 19th ward Caroline Raleigh, Sugar
House ward Mrs. Harriet Hardy, Taylorsville
one of the young ladies. Pres. Freeze said we
used to recite in school "Large oaks from little
acorns grow;" and thinking of this I gather
encouragement. In one of the revelations we
read that if a man labor all his days and save
one soul how great will be his joy. We have
saved more than one. I do not feel to relax my
efforts but to renew them. I would again urge
that our sisters ask their Bishops to aid us. We
have Sister J. S. Richards from Ogden here, we
may receive good instruction from her. Let us
give her our faith and prayers."


[Column 1]
	Sister Richards. "I have a testimony though
I did not expect to be called upon to-day. We
all want to be favorably regarded by our Father.
I have never had any doubts as to this being
the Gospel of the Son of God. If any opportun-
ities to testify to are neglected, I set a bad exam-
ple to the young. I feel a little grieved to see
so few here, for I know how many have been
reared with fond hopes in this direction, and
yet how few are realized; I have been pleased to
hear the reports, to learn the determination on
the part of the few to continue. How pleasing
this is to us. Every day I feel a renewed zeal to
live my religion. We wish to do all in our power
to guard our young people. How much pleasure
we could have enjoyed if we had had these
organizations in our youth. I accost every girl
I meet if I know her, and ask her if she attends
her meetings If she is working out and cannot,
I advise her to work for less where she can have
the privilege of going to meeting. Let us live so
that every day's labor will be guided by our
Father. Let us do all we can to encourage the
young ladies in their Associations. How I
would have rejoiced to see all who should have
been here. I wish to listen to the sisters; it is
two years since I attended your Conference. I
had hoped to attend the Primary Conference but
found I was too late."
	Sister Nancy A. Clark, Pres. Y. L. M. I. A.
Davis Stake, said she regretted to see so scant a
representation; "it is not my prerogative to find
fault but it seemes to me that the parents should
insist on their children attending their Associa-
tions. This is not a matter of choice or taste,
but a command to us as much as to the brethren.
We must practice what we preach. For the lack
of knowledge, and by the bands of tradition we
seem to be fettered and falter in going forward.
It should be our aim to carry on the labor ap-
pointed to us. God has given us each a talent,
if we have only one, greater zeal is required lest
we lose even that. He who has ten talents has
acquired others by faithfully improving one.
We will come forward in the last day lacking
those blessings we might have received. Some
seem to consider these meetings [-]nnecessaay.
We look to the commands of the present oracles.
That we may understand these things and teach
our children is my prayer. Let us persevere and
we will accomplish many good things. I can
give a good report of Davis Stake, we have good
Conferences and meetings. There is work for
every one in Zion to combat evil." Pres. Joseph
E. Taylor: "I am pleased to meet with as many
as are present. I did expect to find the house
full but I am not going to find fault. Sister
Clark has touched on many topics. One is, 'is
there any work for the Sisters?' Yes! To define
that work would require more time than I have
to occupy with you this afternoon. To attempt
anything outside of that for which weare by
nature qualified would be a mistake; but to
follow our individuality, we shall satisfy our-
selves, our associates and our Father. If we are
laboring to build up Zion, we have a right to
claim the aid and blessings of heaven. Is there
a field for the sisters among the youth of Zion?
There is! There are more to-day here who love
[---] and extremes than there were five
[---]rs ago. I have been questioned as to my
[---] on this. The unseen influences that
[---]o potent, they are on the side of evil
[---]owerful. We find a command, "let your
[---]ts be plain, and the workmanship of your
[---]nds." Any departure from the will of
[---], in any person, young or old is destruc-
[---]n discard his word in part we lessen
[---]n upon Him. In this there is a large
[---]	*	*	*	The tendency to immor-
[---] increasing. In this respect the in-
[---]s of evil are tireless. These labors are in
[---]y with the nature of evil.
[---] A. M. Cannon: "I feel gratified in being
[---]tted to address you. What I have heard
[---]ratified me much. What I may say I hope
[---]be for good. I might from my own exper-
[---]give some advice. There is work for the
[---]rs, man is not without the woman in the
[---]d nor the woman without the man. A joint
[---]mand was laid down on both. It would be
[---]ll if young women would encourage their
[---]sbands in their duties; she would thus help
[---]tablish his position in the Church. I know
[--]here women have used an influence against
[-]aying tithing and other rules, these families
have drifted backwards. There is the objection
to plain attire, that the best-dressed girls receive
the attention of the gentlemen. I would
prefer my daugghters to marry working
men, no matter how poor, rather than be-
come the wives of men who only seek employ-
ment as professional peddlers. We should seek to

[Column 2]
promote industries among us, I would like to see
knitting resumed. I wish that some of these
Associations would develop some of these old
talents. These cardboard ornaments are a pre-
vailing industry in Zion but it is hard to find a
pair of home-made socks. I would like to see
these industries encouraged in Zion. Look after
the boys." Referred to finding the boys smoking;
to mothers driving their children into the street
instead of drawing them round them, advised
mothers not to screen the faults of their children
from their fathers. Teach your children to respect
the father's instructions, there are enjoyments
which are also industries; you will find the sat-
isfacation with plain clothes and moderate means
will be the path to prosperity. Look at the
Saints from Swtizerland and other countries of
hard labor, and see them gather the comforts of
life around them. &c.
	Pres. M. A. Freeze: "I have enjoyed this
meeting, I have been impressed to urge the As-
sociations to use an influence to stem the tide of
extravagence. It is time, it has gone too far. I
heard Pres. Young say an angel would pass by
those who were fashionably and foolishly dressed
if one came to visit the earth. We will have
written reports next Conference. Conference
adjourned for three months, sang "Come thou
fount of every blessing." Benediction by Pres.
Joseph E. Taylor.
		AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ELEVENTH WARD PRIMARY.

CHILDREN'S FAIR.

	The Qurterly meeting of the Primary Asso-
ciation of the 11th Ward, this city, was held
Wednesday, July 20, in the Ward Meeting
House. At 2 o'clock p. m. the house was
opened for the exhibition of the children's
work, which has all been made for the chil-
dren's County Fair, which will be held in this
city during the month of September. The
articles exhibited were made by children from
four to thirteen years old, and were indeed
wonderful. One boy ten years old made a neat
little cradle for a doll; one 11 a mouse trap;
an ingenious jumping-jack was made by a boy
12, and a boy nine years old a handsome pic-
ture frame, made of heavy brown paper, cut
and folded, then varnished, giving it the ap-
pearance of a leather frame. Then there were
a variety of mottoes, worked in perforated
card board, comb cases, letter cases, card re-
ceivers, tidies. mats, pincushions, wax flowers,
wool flowers, hair flowers; one little girl who
has but one arm had made a child's stocking
with only her left hand; a little girl 4 1/2 years
old had worked a very pretty motto and cross
all herself. Then there were frosted cakes and
pie made by little girls seven years old, and
vegetables of almost every kind raised by
boys nine and ten. There was a handsome
piece of ornamentation in plaster made by a boy
12 years old.
	The meeting was conducted by Mrs. Louie
Felt, President of the Association, and there
were 145 children, all under 12, and nearly all
under 10 years old, yet the order was excellent.
Mrs. Felt has a peculiar faculty in managing
children. Exercises commenced with singing
"O my Father," &c. Minutes read and ac-
cepted. Essay on "Kindness," Lawrence
Berg. Recitation, May Dangerfield. Song,
"A Mormon Boy," Willie Tucket. Recitations,
George Colum and Charlie Tucket. Song,
Nellie and Ettie Penrose and little Louie Felt.
Three little girls sang "Gather up the sun-
beams." Essay, Susie Simons. Dialogue by
two little girls. Song by Janie Cameron and
Hattie Felt. 18 children recited in concert,
"Gather them into the fold."
	Sister Zina D. Young then addressed the
children, speaking principally of the Savior.
Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs. E. S. Clawson, Mrs. E.
Howard and Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson each made
a few remarks. Mrs. Felt then talked a little


to the children, and the congregation joined
with the children in singing, “Lord dismiss us
with thy blessing.” Benediction by Johnnie
Sears.
 This is one of the best Associations in the
city, or in fact anywhere, and we have taken
pains to publish considerable about it, in order
that those who live at a distance might have
an idea of the routine of exercises, and per-
haps be benefitted in the management of their
respective organizations.
	E. B. W.


THE DAYS WE LIVE IN.

	In conversation with a friend not long since,
I was asked if we did not read in Acts of the
Apostles, 2d chapter and 17th verse, that God
said in the last days He would pour out His
Spirit upon all flesh, and if I did not think
these were the days alluded to; "for," said he,
"was there ever a time when so many inven-
tions were attained to, as within the last fifty
years? Is there any acconnt in history where
so much has been accomplished in the same
length of time?" I think when we reflect we
could readily say the same. Believing as we
do that God our Father is the Author of all
science and the head of all intelligence, then,
accordingly, a great work must be done in
these days. This seems entirely consistent with
the plan of the Latter-day work. But we are
told that such or such a person had power to
become great, or skilled in invention, yet he
was an infidel—he did not believe in God, he
did not acknowledge Him, because he did not
know Him, never having seen Him, etc. I
would ask, did he know his earthly parents?
Is it not faith in what he has been told, besides
some marks of attention shown, which con-
vinced him that they were his parents. Chil-
dren are not capacitated to know this. Their
parents have a knowledge upon this subject,
but the children walk by faith. Even so is it
with man as regards the Heavenly Father. He
has a knowledge of us and will aid and assist
us, if we will have faith. If we have no faith
He will bless His children in laudable desires,
in studying and in gaining intelligence of His
works, and in this way we will learn something
of His great wisdom and power. Besides, we
read in holy writ that the gifts and callings of
God are without repentance. But can we
draw near to, and become acquainted with our
Heavenly Father without repentance and faith?
I think not. This is the pattern our Savior set
for us. He kept His Father’s laws, which is
an example for us. Those laws we believe are
superior to all other laws.
	It seems that a reckless spirit is ripening in
these days, which brings confusion and strife,
and many young people suppose that a person
is not manly unless he possesses this daring
and reckless, independent, uncontrollable spirit.
Watch the result, and then ask where is the
wisdom in cultivating such wayward feelings?
I would rather adhere to that spirit which
brings peace, although I must sacrifice my own
feelings by doing so. It is better to be subject
to laws and regulations, than to pursue a reck-
less, independent course; and shows more and
greater nobility of character.
	What has the would-be assassin gained by
shooting President Garfield? A reckless,
wicked spirit, one not subject to law or order,
must have taken possession of Guitteau, and
he was under its control; and there seems to be
many wicked spirits abroad in the earth, who
would destroy the good and the pure were it in
their power. What had President Garfield
done to deserve such a fate? Was he tyran-
nical? No, not that we can learn. He had
not been in office long enough to show this trait
of character, had he possessed it. While visit-
iting our city and our people, we formed quite


a different-opinion-of Gen. Garfield. Those
who made his acquaintance thought him to be
a man, of sound mind and good principles, one
who would not condescend to a mean action.
'Tis true, he made some harsh remarks in his
message about what the fate of the Mormons
would be, but we cherished not the least ill-
feeling towards him on account of that-these
days are in many respects like those in which
the Gospel was preached in the days of Jesus,
and a strange fancy took possession of my mind
upon reading the President's message; it was
this: Is not President Garfield in the same po-
sition that Pilate was in the days of Jesus, and
are not his feelings the same-to please the
people? This may well be called a strange
fancy, because he has not expressed his feelings
in this way; but it is my impression, and I
might almost say faith.
	The spirit of daring and recklessness mani-
fested by Guitteau is what will bring destruc-
tion and desolation, sorrow and distress upon
the earth; and how much better for men to
cultivate the spirit of peace and humility and
gentleness, than to sow the seeds of discord
and anarchy and contention. Our lives are
frail at best, easily snatched from us; good men
and women would rather die than bring a blot
upon their character, or prove disloyal to their
integrity in a just cause. Such persons are
pleasing in the sight of God.
	We as a people feel that we are in the hands
of God, and we acknowledge His goodness and
power. He knows the frailties of the human
family, and will cause all things to work to-
gether for good to those who love Him and are
called according to His purpose to serve Him,
and who are trying to keep His command-
ments.
	But says one, "Did the Savior teach polyga-
my? I do not read that He has ever spoken
upon this subject." I would reply, it was a
custom of the Jews anciently, when they were
a nation.  Our Savior denounced sin in all its
forms, but never spoke upon plural marriage,
which should be a testimony that it is not sin.
Undoubtedly He knew if people believed and
practised the laws given to govern His kingdom,
they could live in any position without strife
and confusion, because these laws require genu-
ine love, and a person cannot be a Saint with-
out that. Is not plural marriage a good test
whereby to prove who can love his neighbor as
himself? and also who can deal out even-
handed justice to those under their care? Those
who can do these things are godlike, and de-
 serve to be loved and revered. They are the
nobility of the earth. A people who will gov-
ern themselves by the best rules given to man,
are in my opinion of true noble birth, although
born in polygamy. The Savior's lineage is
traced direct to this form of marriage, and He
never denounced it as unholy or impure.
When I express these views and sentiments to
others, I find their feelings are in every respect
the same as those of your friend and sister in
the Gospel of Christ.
					M. E. KIMBALL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


NATURE'S BEAUTIES

THE MANTI ROCKS.

	Many years ago a large number of beautiful
ornaments were made from a rock that is found
at Gibraltar; it was marked in the prettiest
stripes of all sorts of colors, and as no mineral
had been found like it, it received the name of
"Gibraltar Rock." It is a very compact and
easily worked substance, and thousands of or-
naments and trinkets were made of it, which
were sold very cheap. The mineral is Calcite,
a lime rock, and is technically called Aragonite,
its mottled figures and bandings being caused
by the infiltration of water containing coloring
matter, while the rock was forming.


Now, there is a formation almost exactly like
this “Gibraltar Rock, found at Manti, in San-
pete County; and there are other beautiful
rocks found in many of our canons and caves.
Suppose that our youth were to employ their
time in collecting them, and even in manu-
facturing them into useful articles, such as
ink-stands, watch-stands, paper weights, trink-
ets and other fancy goods, they would sell, and
a branch of business could be opened up that
would be remunerative after a time. Such
kind of light wares and fancy articles are made
in many of the old cities, and thousands of
people are supported by such industries.
	"What can I buy here of Utah make?" This
is the constant inquiry of the strangers who
visit our city. These people want little things
to take with them as mementoes of the place,
just as when toursits go to the cities that are
famous in other places. Why, there is no city
better known than that of Salt Lake; "Can't
we get some fancy things as a present from
Salt Lake?" asked a party of ladies.
	Yes, ladies, there are some pieces of granite
from the Temple we are building here. These
were taken, but had a very little labor been
expended upon them they would have sold
readily, and the tourists would have been bet-
ter pleased.
	Who would believe it? fancy goods made of
gypsum in England; pretty rocks from Lake
Superior; paper-weights made of "California
Marble," are sold in this city to strangers. And
the prettiest minerals, some of the most skilful
artizans in the world!		AVONDALE.


WISDOM.

	Wisdom is what we should all have; it is very
needful and desirous and folks cannot aspire
in this world to what they could without it, and
I think the Lord is anxious, we should learn
all that we possibly can in order to serve him
more acceptably. But there are people good,
honest, honorable folks who know but very
little and do not seem to appreciate intelli-
gence. Their childhood has perhaps been neg-
lected by their parents, and now that they have
grown to manhood or grown to be women, they
have to work hard for their daily bread and
perhaps have families that need their attention
and care. Do you think that the Lord has
forgotten them? No! He thinks just as much of
them as He does of the learned. It is not edu-
cation alone that makes the man or woman; it
all depends upon the use it is put to. Now for
instance there are some who you might say are
all education; I know some of that class my-
self; all they can do is to be waited upon and
lounge around and talk; oh yes, they talk very
nice, but they would not work a day to save
one's life. Such milk and water folks I think
are a very great distance from our Heavenly
Father's ideas of intelligence, a much greater
distance than those who know less, that are
honest, industrious, earnest and true. Though
some folks intimate that not to have much ed-
ucation is an unpardonable crime. I think
folks that are so silly as to talk so, had better
think a little longer before they speak. There
is no excuse for children to go unschooled now
a days, they can be educated now, and it is
a most excellent thing. I am sure thirty years
ago when we first came here it was very differ-
ent, we had to work hard to raise something to
eat, and get comfortable homes. It is a good
thing to have sound sense, industry and honesty
for a foundation for a good education, or else
your time and money will be wasted; and you
will come out in the end worse off than those
that have the foundation but have not the learn-
ing, but would have improved the advantages for
education if they had the chance; some will be
like the butterflies, make a gaudy show for a


short time and then pass away without having
anything left as a token of remembrance.
God gives wisdom and knowledge to all who
are honest in heart; and at the judgment day
those who are termed by some aspiring people
low and ignorant will arise and shine.
							   C.S.G.


JESSE BURNS
OR,
WAS IT FATE?

A Sketch of the Exodus from Nauvoo, and the
early Settlement of Utah.

CONCLUDED.

	Minnie staid on with the girls about two
years, when, her hero coming, she gave herself
to his keeping.
	She wrote for her father's consent to the mar-
riage but he treated the matter lightly sending
her no means as she thought he would for so
important an event. She was deeply grieved
to be so ignored, the more so as she could only
infer that it was due to his wife's influence.
On marrying she removed to another county
and for many years saw very little of the girls
who married and settled at Salt Lake.
	Her mother came to live with her, and after
awhile accepted the proposals of a man whose
first wife was dead, his children were grown up,
and shortly after married; she lived with him
eighteen years, and at the age of sixty-four, sur-
rounded by her husband, and three daughters
she passed to the better world, one of her last
hopes being that Jesse would meet her there.
	She died in full faith of the Gospel, and ex-
pectation of a resurection with the just.
	She often said "everything would work to-
gether for good to those who loved God, and
kept his commandments."
	Jesse meantime gave his wife great uneas-
ness by willing the hotel to his children.  It
was her intention to get it into her own hands
for the benefit of herself and her brothers and
sisters, she having no children made them her
special charge.
	After Minnie's marriage herself and sister
were entirely ignored except by an occasional
letter from her father. He felt very bitter to-
wards the Church and towards Mary and the
children. His wife made determined efforts to
gain her point, which resulted in sending him
deeper in the slough of intoxication. As men
always do who use liquor to excess, he vainly
thought it would make life more endurable, but
it rather blinded his intellect, until she, by her
scheming brought things to a crisis. The hotel
was mortgaged and finally sold. The will
burned, and all Jesse's available means was
laid out on the farm. He went to the Sand-
wich Islands where he remained several years;
Mrs. Burns in the mean time making herself
a home in San Francisco. He sent her money
from time to time, but they seldom met. There
was no harmony of feeling existing between
them or sympathy such as should influence
husband and wife.
	After living in this way for several years and
squandering the fine property which he had
amassed, she died of a lingering and painful
disease.
	Jesse lived a few years longer and died
alone in San Francisco at the age of seventy,
and but for the kindness of his friends, would
have been laid in a pauper's grave.
	And now patient reader if you have followed
this little narrative to a close; and listened to
the trials of two loving, generous hearts, that
ever beat truly for each other; you will see how
time and circumstances could so blend, that
they could finish their lives in separate ways.
This is a true story and I have given it no ficti-
tious coloring.


As I reflect on the circumstnces of their
lives, and see Mary's children honorable and
respected, filling happy homes, and send my
mind to that far off land, the center of so many
bright romances and bitter disappointments, and
think of the lonely old man, whose late years
were filled with bitterness and sorrow, and re-
flect on what was and what might have been,
I am led to wonder of the hand of an overruling
Providence guided the life of Mary Burns, or,
"Was it Fate?"
	By the author of Pipsy Papers &c.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.
				----
	A COMET is now visible in Australia. It is
believed to be identical with that of 1861.
	Mexico is undergoing a wonderful trans-
formation at the hands of American enterprise
and capital.  It is estimated that in the in-
credible short space of seven months, $78,000,
000 has been invested in railway and mining
enterprises.
	THE PRINCE OF WALES AND THE POOR:--
Arrangements for the opening of the Maryle-
bone Workhouse Infirmary, London, having
now been made, the Prince and Princess of
Wales will attend for the purpose of perform-
ing the ceremony.  A guard of honor, composed
of the West Middlesex Volunteers, will be
mounted at the main entrance to the infirmary,
and after the address has been presented to the
Prince the Bishop of London will offer up
prayer.  The infirmary benig declared open, an
inspection of the building will be made by the
Royal visitors.
	The Woman Suffrage History is receiving
extended notice from both the secular and
religious press.  It is almost universally con-
ceded that the work is a capable, necessary
and important one, and that its editors have
performed it in a spirit of fairness, as well as
of high literary merit.  It is also generally
conceded by the reviewers that the time had
arrived in which such a work was necessary,
and that in preserving such "an arsenal of
facts" in regard to one of the great moral and
political questions of the day, its editors have
done a work of rare historical value.--Ex.
	MR. Edwin Booth drew a handsome sum
from the Lyceum exchequer for his recent en-
gagement at the theater; but it is not correct
that he recieved [-]2,000. The arrangement
was that the American actor should take [-]60
for every performance, and as there was
twenty-one representations of "Othello," his
share of the proceds amounted in all to [-]1,
260. The success of Mr. Irving's experiment
should warrant its repetition, and the public
will be glad if in the course of the next year or
two, Mr. Booth resumes that position at the
Lyceum which has so greatly raised his reputa-
tion in this country.


ENGLAND DEMOCRATS, FOR WO-
MAN SUFFRAGE.

	Attempts are being made in England to or-
ganize a new party which shall be entirly in-
dependent of both liberals and conservatives,
A delegate meeting of some 200 representat-
ives of metropolitan and provincial radical
clubs and associations has just been held in
London, and a common platform agreed on;
to wit, (1) adult (i.e. male and female) suffrage
(2) equal constituencies; (3) paid members; (4)
bribery to be made felony; (5) home rule for
Ireland; (6) abolition of the House of Lords;
(7) nationalization of the land. Miss Helen
Taylor, step daughter of the late John Stuart
Mill, an active member of the London school
board, spoke very ably in favor of the female
franchise; while Mr. Justin McCarthy, M. P.,
the novelist and historian, contrived to secure


"legislative independence for Ireland." No-
body knew exactly what the comforting phrase
"nationalization of the land" meant, but it
evidently smacked of revolution, and that was
recommendation enough. One or two stray
individualists, disciples of Herbert Spencer, beg-
ged for a definition, but they were promptly
ruled out of order. This section of ultra liberals
will henceforth be known as "the democrats."
—Ex.


MISCELLANEOUS. 

	SOLITUDE is the audience chamber of God.
—Landor
	ON the day of victory no weariness is felt.—
Arabic Proverb.
	EXTRAORDINARY afflictions are not always
the punishment of extraordinary sins, but
sometimes the trial of extraordinary graces—
Matthew Henry.
	The old home of Alice and Phoebe Cary, com-
prising twenty-six acres, near Cincinnati, has
been purchased by Alexander Swift, and is to
be converted into a beautiful memorial park.
Mr. Swift is a wealthy citizen and a brother-in-
law of the Cary sisters.—Ex.
	GEORGE Eliot had, as is well known, a great
love and capacity for music, and a voice
of rare sweetness. She once said that if
she had had her choice of surpassing
gifts she would have chosen the career
of a great musician. A somewhat apocry-
phal story is told in illustration of this bent
of her mind. She was in a garden one day
reading some French work aloud to a child.
A lady passing stood still to listen. Gorge
Eloit looked up, "Do you understand this?"
she asked with a smile. "Not at all," was
the answer, "but I am charmed by your beauti-
ful voice." "Ah!" said George Eliot, "I would
rather you loved my voice than my Romola'!"
The incident is a little strained, as George Eliot
was the last person in the world to talk in this
style to a stranger; but the story probably ex-
pressed faithfully enough what was often in
her mind, if not on her lips.


FOR SALE.

Home-Made SILK,
	AT
CUTLER'S COMMISSION STORE.

	ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon.
	OFFICE on Main St., Old Constitution Buildings.
RESIDENCE on South Temple Street, between 9th and
16th East Streets.
Special attention given to Obstetrics, Diseases of Children
and Diseases of the THROAT, HEART and LUNGS.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
	DENTIST.
		SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
		to Filling and Preserving the
		Natural teeth.  Teeth Carefully
		Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
		from one tooth to a Full Set in the
		Most Approved Manner. PRICES
		to Suit te Times and First Class
		Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE--MAIN ST OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
		P. O. BOX, 341.

		HAVE YOU SEEN THE
NEW VICTOR SEWING MACHINE?
	If not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction.  The New Machine
is elegant in appearance and admirable in operation, runs
very easily and without any noise and confusion, although
the rate of speed is very high. Its self-setting and self-
threading shuttle, and absence of springs and cogs, renders
it both simple and durable. Be sure to see it, for its
general advantages will make you its friend.
	VICTOR SEWING MACHINE CO., CHICAGO, ILL.
	YOUNG BROS. Agent, Salt Lake City.

	A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
Culer, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME Made

	Blankets,		Brown Yarns,		Cotton Batting,
	Flannels,		White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
	Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
	Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
	Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
		MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons to the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

	DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP.
	PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
	OFFICE AND RESIDENCE over Contributor Office, north of
Z. C. M. I.
	Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children as special-
ities.

	THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
			BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
		Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obe found in the West.		Your Orders are Solicited.
			GEO. DUNFORD.

	F. AUERBACH & BRO.
			HAVE
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
			CALL AND EXAMINE
	Spring and Summer Goods.

	DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the coutry promptly responded to.
	Address, David James, Box 396, Salt Lake City.

			Z. C. M. I.
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

	AT TEASDEL'S
		SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
		S. P. TEASDEL.

	H. DINWOODEY,
		WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
	FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS, WALL PAPER
			AND
	BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
		SALT LAKE CITY.

	ROMANIA B. PRATT,
Physician and Surgeon.
	OFFICE--Up Stairs, in Old Constitution Building.
RESIDENCE--Six Blocks East of Post Office, South side
of street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, Diseases of
Women, and DISEASES of the EYE and EAR.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 10	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15, 1881.	No. 6.


THE RIVER OF LIFE.

 BY HANNAH T. KING.

	The river of life
	With variety rife,
Bearing Vessels of every kind—
	Bound to deliver,
	To the Great Giver
The freightage none can leave behind:

	Often rough is it,
	Often cold is it,—
On! On! flowing river of Time!—
	Arks float upon it,
	Barks float upon it,—
On! On! to Eternity's clime!

	Alas! wrecks are there,
	The great and the fair,
That were sailing along in their pride!—
	Yet many find rest
	In a Haven so blest
Yes, the Haven where rest doth abide.

	I love thee great river!
	I thank God the giver,
That I sail on this river sublime!—
	God keep the argosies,
	With their rich merchandise,
All safe in the heavenly clime.

	Pray for them pray for them,
	Ferfently say for them,
May the great Pilot decree,
	Though deep in the Gulph stream
	O'er whelm'd it would surely seem,
At last in His Haven they'll be'!

	All hail to the river!
	Life's deep, mighty river!
The bold rushing river of Time!
	May each vessel be found
	Sea-worthy and sound,
Bearing freightage for Heaven's own clime!

	Our God is above
	The sweet God of love,
His spirit broods over the river?
	Row down life's stream
	Beneath His bright beam,
In the light and the love of such Giver!

Salt Lake City Aug. 3rd. 1881.


[Column 1]
"THE CITY OF THE SAINTS"

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	Burton, the great traveler and historian of
the 19th century, visited Utah some few years
ago, and spent some time in Salt Lake City,
and afterwards wrote and published a large
volume of his travels, observations, and experi-
ences therein, and named his book "The City of
the Saints." Truth and common sense views of
all he saw, embellish its pages. Burton must
have possessed naturally a large heart, and a
broad brain, and his life of travel, his inter-
course with people of different nations, and his
experiences therein, had expanded still further
those noble organs, and rendered him, in his
views, and in his judgment cosmopolitan; the
Book is decidedly the finest and most just ac-
count that has ever been given by an "out-
sider;" his descriptions are graphic, and hu-
morous, and show that he had made a study of
that nucleus of the human family he found
located in this remote region; he viewed them
with the eye of a philosopher, if nothing high-
er, and had arrived at an extraordinary com-
prehension of the problem embodied in this
peculiar people, and candidly acknowledged

[Column 2]
that there was an under current, a Gulph-stream,
if you please, that was not fathomed by a cur-
sory view of the surface of things, etcetera.
The picture he drew of President Brigham
Young is most complimentary, and apprecia-
tive as a governor and a ruler; no low sar-
casm, or inuendo blurs its pages, it seems the
clear comprehension of his mind gave no room
for anything but truth, and he honestly por-
trayed the same. It is years since I read his
book but the spirit of it will never leave my
mind. I borrow Burton's title of his book for
my little essay, and feel I honor him by so
doing. It seems to me that every candid,
truthful mind cannot stand in this city, and
walk or ride through its environs without be-
ing singularly impressed with the conviction
that there is a spirit broods over it, breathes in
its atmosphere, encircles it daily and nightly,
intactible, invisible, yet impressing every mind
that is pure, venerative, and open to receive
its revealings. I remember the time when I
heard tales about this location that eclipsed
"The Arabian Nights," and indeed many
doubted whether it had a tangible existence, or
whether it was not a chimera of some visionary
romantic brain, on which "marvelousness"
over-ruled every other organ! But years have
passed, a little world has been gathered here,
explorers have come from the East and from the
West, the North and the South, and to-day
Salt Lake City, the metropolis of Utah, is as
well known all over the world as London,
the metropolis of England.
	On July 21st, 1847, six persons rode on to the
spot of ground around which now stands this
beautiful city, they were the "outriders" of the
Pioneers. They threw themselves from their
steeds, and weary and worn reclined on the
bosom of Mother Earth. My readers, I leave
you to imagine the unspeakable feelings of
those wanderers! It seems I can conjure them
very near the truth, though not one of the first
pioneers—all may well take lawfully that name
—pioneers all and each have been in their own
individuality, and feeelings of the same calibre
and nature, have more or less inflated every
one as they set foot on this consecrated
ground! What volumes might be written,
what romantic incidents, thoughts, feelings,
aspirations, what absolute devotion, might be
the subjects for these volumes, but I realize
there is assuredly a "Recording Angel," and I
glory in the conviction; glorious, mighty being
though he is, he has dropped many a tear over
the trials, the lacerating, soul-harrowing trials
of a true Latter-day Saint.
	But the city!! It is the beautiful city I took
pen in hand to endeavor to describe. When
those six human beings came upon this spot,
—not a tree, not a shrub, not a blade of grass
were seen—sage brush and the appearance of
an arid desert were all that met their eyes.
Then! and Now! What volumes might be
filled from the interim! It does seem to me
that a thinking mind, a business mind, that
does know something of how cities are laid out,
and then built, also that this people were com-
paratively a poor people—bone and sinew were
their capital, that they were an ignorant peo-
ple, that is, a man might be an artist, unac-
customed to rough work, he joins the Church,
he comes to the gathering place of the Saints.
	Utility is the watchword. Will he not feel
his ignorance when he finds no place for his
studio, no use for the fine arts? but he bravely
strips of his coat and takes the spade, or th

[Column 3]
mortar hod, and does his best and God helps
him. Blessed is the poor man who has been
used to labor, his trial here is comparatively
small. But I was marveling how intelligent
minds cannot see and feel, that there is a power
with this people that the world does not pos-
sess. I believe that many do see and feel all
this, but they wilfully shut their eyes, they
stop their ears, yea even "to the voice of the
charmer!" Yes indeed there is something
mysterious and singular in this obscure and
isolated people, and the homes that they have
built by "the sweat of their brow" with mea-
gre facilities, and small means of every sort,
cash at a premium, yet here stands a city to-
day of no mean pretensions. Here are some
beautiful mansions and lovely gardens, and
fruit and flowers in abundance. Here is go-
ing up our sublime Temple, the most unique,
the finest in every sense of the word, the most
stupendous of any building in the West. Or-
nament and embellishment had for years to
stand back, till utility had accomplished her
mission, but they have been peeping out all
the time like children waiting to be admitted
to the dessert.
	Now they stand out in bold relief, and every
year sees our city putting on her "singing
robes," and she will yet be the prima donna of
the political American Theatre. Our location
is said to be 4,000 feet above sea level, a per-
fect nest, most aptly called "The Great Basin,"
and hence we have a pure, rarified atmosphere,
calm, without supineness, bold without reck-
lessness, strong, without rage, and clear even to
marvelousness, and this will continue unbroken
for weeks, perhaps months; it is full of the ele-
ments of health, so much so, that none can long
remain sick; if persons with pulmonary disease
come here they are soon restored, or the grave
receives them; but if the constitution is good, res-
toration is certain. The high altitude causes
an increased action of the heart, and hence the
whole system responds to the impetus, and pro-
duces a change which on some individuals is
marvelous, especially upon the European.

To be continued.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The next Woman's Congress will be held in
Buffalo, October 19, 20, and 21, The topics
for discussion are, "Scientific Openings for Wo-
men.", by Miss Mary Watson Whitney, N.
Y.; "Outdoor Occupations; Sericulture, by
Mrs. Caroline M. Severance; "Factory Girls,"
by Mrs. Elizabeth Chace, R. Il; "Position, Oc
cupation and Culture of Indian Women," by
Miss Susette La Fleche. Neb.; Influence of
Foreign Study on American Girls," by Mrs.
Lucinda H. Stone, Mich; Political Education
of Women," by Miss Mary F. Eastman, Mass.,
Guardianship of Children, Status of the Moth-
er," by Mrs. Belva A Lockwood, D. C.; Work
of Women in the Reforms of the past Century,"
by Mrs. Lois G. Hufford, Ind.; Temperance,"
by Antoinette Brown Blackwell, N. J.; "Rescue
Work," by Dr. Elizabeth Blackwell, England:
"The Ideal Home," by Mrs. Ednah D. Cheney,
Mass., "The Pursuit of Art," by Mrs. Sarah
W. Whitman, Mass.
	These topics cover a wide field, and will, no
doubt, receive the careful attention they de-
serve. Miss Ella E. Lapham, of Buffalo is at-
tending to all the arrangements in that city,
and acts as chief hostess.—Ex.	L.S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SCENES IN NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	Lately in looking over some of my old letters
I found one written by my mother to her step-
mother who previous to marrying my Grandpa,
we had learned to call by the endearing name
of Aunt Fanny. She was then living in the
Town of Winchester Scott Co. Ill. She had got
this far on her journey from Kirtland to Mis-
souri when she heard of the Saints being driv-
en out. Grandpa left her there to go back in
company with my father to pay a visit to his
children in the state of New York where he
died soon after. The letter contains items that
may prove interesting to some of the old time
Saints particularly so to Bro. Evan Greene and
his wife Susan whom she speaks of; his mother
as well as Aunt Fanny were sisters to Presi-
dent Brigham Young. It was a daughter of
Bro. Evan Greene's who first edited our WOM-
AN'S EXPONENT. This letter is dated "Nau-
voo Feb. 16th, 1841. "Dear Mother:—I am glad
to hear from you once more that you are yet
alive and as comfortable as what you are. We
had anticipated much pleasure in having a
visit from you this winter but in this have been
disappointed, I still hope that you will come
the first opportunity. I have spent this day at
Bro. John P. Greene's; his children were all at
home and I had a good visit with them; but
there is a vacancy there, that never can be
filled. I have not been there before, since the
day that dear Sister Greene was buried. I re-
gretted that you could not have come before
she died, it would have been such a satisfaction
to her and you too, but do not cast any reflec-
tions upon yourself about it for I'm sure that
you would have come had it been in your pow-
er. Sister Greene and I had many a good visit
together since we came to Commerce; although
her health was so poor, yet I would sit down by
her bedside and we would take sweet counsel
together. We often wished that you were here
with us. She has now gone to rest and we
have nothing to regret but the loss of her so-
ciety which is very great. She had everything
for her comfort that she could have had, if
Brother Greene had been worth thousands and
you know he is one of the best nurses in the
world. Her children were all as kind as they
could be, especially Rhoda; she merits praise
from every beholder. I never saw such un-
ceasing care and tenderness as she manifested
for her mother during her whole sickness".
	"I shall not be particular to write all the news
as Evan and Susan can tell you more than I
can write.	*	*	*	I have not had
any news from Victor since receiving those
letters which I shall forward to you by Evan I
have perused them with great satisfaction and
feel perfectly reconciled and thankful that
father was there instead of here—If he had
died here, perhaps the children would have cast
reflections upon us for fetching him to this
sickly country; so I feel that it is all for the
best. As for myself and family we enjoy com-
fortable health this winter. I received a letter
from Heber last week bearing date of Dec. 12th
he and Brigham and the rest of the brethren
were usually well, with the exception of
George A. Smith, his lungs are so affected that
he raises blood; he is not able to preach. The
work is still rolling forth in mighty power and
persecution increasing as the work advances.
Heber says if things continue as they have for
a short time past, they shall been driven from
that land—Joseph has been afraid of it by
the spirit and has written for them to come
home in the spring. He says they will make
their escape and that is all".
	"I have many anxious feelings about them but
try to commit them into the hands of the Lord
and look forward with anticipation to the time
when we shall meet and rejoice together. We

[Column 2]
have many things to cheer and gladden our
hearts while sojourning in this vale of tears.
The Lord is again revealing his will to the
Church through his servant Joseph; there has
been a very lengthy revelation given of late
concerning the building up of this place; also
concerning all the different Quorums in the
Church. The Lord says there has been a day
of calling and now cometh a day of choosing—
I understand that the revelation is to be read
at the April Conference. I hope that you will
be here. I must now close as I have promised
Helen one page to write you.
		Yours affectionately, Vilate Kimball.
	On the 6th, of April 1841 the corner-stones
of the Nauvoo Temple were laid which I had
the privilege of witnessing,—it was a day the
Saints had anxiously looked for and was ushered
in by peals of artillery calling together the
Nauvoo Legion consisting of fourteen com-
panies and two volunteer companies of militia
from Iowa. The military were first reviewed
by Lieutenant General Joseph Smith then the
procession was formed, and marched to the
Temple grounds in the following order, which
I copy. Lieut. General Smith, Brig. Generals
Law and Smith, aides-de-camp and conspicu-
ous strangers, general staff; 2nd, Cohort (in-
fantry) ladies eight abreast, gentlemen eight
abreast, 1st. Cohort (cavalry.)
	The oration was delivered by President Rig-
don. The S. E., corner was laid by the First
Presidency; the S. W., by President Don C.
Smith and his Counselors of the High Priest
Quorum; the N. W., by the High Council. re-
presenting the Twelve Apostles who were in
Great Britain; and the N. E., corner by the
Bishops. The vast assembly then separated,
the whole having passed off in harmony and
no contention or discord having appeared."
A great many strangers from other parts were
present on this occasion and all lost sight of
their prejudices and entered into the enjoy-
ment of it with the Saints.
	On the 1st day of July my father with Presi-
dent Young and Brother John Taylor arrived
home from their mission; the families of the
latter who were left in Montrose sick, were then
living in Nauvoo on the Flat enjoying a more
comfortable degree of health. My brother,
who was still living at the landing was the first
to meet and embrace my father. The Prophet
and many more were there ready to greet and
welcome them home again, Joseph would have
them go home with him to dinner and William
hastened home to tell us the same; we thought
this almost an unkindness for it seemed so long
a time to us who were waiting and watching
with impatience to see him but soon we discov-
ered a company of horsemen coming with all
speed and when my mother saw them she made
a hasty retreat behind the door to hide her
confusion, where in a moment after father found
her overwhelmed in tears. Joseph it seemed
had ordered several horses to be saddled while
they were eating and by the time dinner was
served, which was a hasty one, the horses were
at the door and he with Brother Hyrum and
three or four brethren accompanied my father
home. My mother felt the presence of others
at such a time almost an intrusion but Brother
Joseph seemed unwilling to part with my father;
and from that time kept the Twelve in Coun-
cil early and late, and she sometimes felt nearly
jealous of him but never dreamed that he was
during those times revealing to them the prin-
ciples of Celestial Marriage and that her trials
and sacrifices which she had flattered herself
were nearly over, had scarcely begun, and they
little realized the meaning of his words when
he said "he was rolling off the kingdom from
his own shoulders on to the shoulders of the
Twelve."
	A few days after their return to Nauvoo their
Prophet's Brother Don Carlos Smith died, and
being an officer in the Legion as well as a Free

[Column 3]
Mason he was buried with Masonic and Mili-
tay rites. Those of the Masonic fraternity
marched next to the family to the grave which
was in a little grove at the foot of the hill
south west of the Temple. My mother's baby
being too sick for her to leave I went in her
stead and marched with my father in the Mas-
onic procession; and may I be pardoned for
saying it, but when he gave me his arm as we
started from home that Sabbath morn I felt
justly proud of the honor of walking with so fine
a looking gentleman as was my father and not
only that, but knowing that his constant humil-
ity and faithfulness to his duty, had won for
him the love and confidence of the Prophet and
all who knew him. Besides the sorrowing
family of Bro. Don Carlos he had a host of
sincere mourners and I felt deeply impressed
by the grand and imposing ceremonies that I
witnessed that day. The Legion and a large
procession of citizens formed hear the Temple,
and as they marched in slow and solemn order
to the house of the dead the Martial Band with
muffled drum beat to the notes of a dead
march.
	The following from Sister E.R. Snow's Poem
describes the scnen.

"I gazed upon the grand procession, till
It disappear'd amid the dwellings which
Stand thickly cluster'd near the river's edge.
I listened! all was still the music notes
No longer sounded on the pensive breeze:
But hark! the notes awaken'd, and I saw
The mighty host returning with the same
Slow, melancholy tread! A hearse was borne
Along with solemn yet bold martial pomp,
That plainly signified a MIGHTY ONE.
One of no ordinary rank, had fallen!

*		*		*		*		*		*

In nature's temple with no other wall
Than the horizon, and no other arch
Than the broad canopy of heaven shaded
With clust'ring boughs whose foliage waves around,
Is rais'd an altar to the living God.
There the procession march'd; it halted there.
And in the front of weeping relatives,
The hearse of him was plac'd who there in life
Had been a fervent constant worshiper.
His arms and armor on his coffin lay,
And other swords than his lay crossing there,
His brother officers, who form'd with him
The noblest military staff our fair
Columbia has to boast, were seated by,
In shining armor clad."

	In the morning I remember that the sky had
looked somewhat thretening but it cleared away
until near the close of the service, dark clouds
began to gather over the city, and as the pro-
cession was again forming to follow his remains
to their last resting place, the rain fell in tor-
rents but this did not prevent us from standing
by his grave while his brethren, one by one
deposited therein a green bough, as a last tri-
bute of respect to one, whose life had been free
from blemish, and whom Zion deeply mourned.

To be continued.


GREEK MONUMENT.﻿

	A London paper, "The Ladies Pictorial"
announces in its last issue, something of the
following:—Probably it is well known that the
Heart of Lord Byron was buried at Missi-
longhi, where he died, and now on that very
spot a monument is being erected to the im-
mortal Poet! It is to consist of a Statue
covered in Pentelic marble by the eminent
Sculptor Vitalis of Syracuse; a large sum of
money has been secured for the purpose and as
the monument is intended to be a memorial of
Hellenic gratitude to one who gave his song, his
life for Greece—so only Greeks have been
allowed to contribute to the fund.
	So Harold ends in Greece his last Pilgrim-
age.	H. T. K.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LEONA.

BY JAMES G. CLARK

	Competent literary critics have pronounced the follow-
ing poem unsurpassed by any other production of its
class in our language. It is perfect in rhyme, beautiful
in figure and expression:

Leona, the hour draws nigh,
	The hour we've waited so long,
For the angel to open a door in the sky,
That my spirit may break from its prison and try
	lts voice in an infinite song.

Just now, as the slumbers of night
	Came o'er me in peace-giving breath,
The curtain, half lifted, revealed to my sight
Those windows which look on the kingdom of light
	That borders the river of death.

And a vision fell solemn and sweet,
	Bringing gleams of a morning-lit land;
I saw the white shore which the pale waters beat,
And I heard the low lull as they broke at their feet
	Who walked on the beautiful strand.

And I wondered why spirits could cling
	To their clay with a struggle and sigh
When life's purple autumn is better than spring,
And the soul flies away, like a sparrow to sing
	In a climate where leaves never die.

Leona, come close to my bed,
	And lay your dear hand on my brow,
The same touch that thrill'd me in days that are fled,
And raised the last roses of youth from the dead,
	Can brighten the brief moments now.

We have lived from the cold world apart,
	And your trust was too generous and true
For their hate to o'erthrow; when the slanderer's dart
Was rankling deep in my desolate heart,
	I was dearer than ever to you.

I thank the great Father for this,
	That our love is not lavished in vain;
Each germ in the future will blossom to bliss,
And the forms that we love, and the lips that we kiss
	Never shrink at the shadow of pain.

By the light of this faith am I taught
	That my labor is only begun;
In the strength of this hope I have struggled and fought
With the legions of wrong, till my armor has caught
	The gleam of Eternity's sun.

Leona, look forth and behold
	From headland, from hillside, and deep,
The day-king surrenders his banners of gold.
The twilight advances through woodland and wold,
	And the dews are begining to weep.

The moon's silver hair lies uncurled
	Down the broad-breasted mountains away;
The sunset's red glory again shall be furled
On the walls of the west, o'er the plains of the world,
	And shall rise in a limitless way.

O! come not in tears to my tomb,
	Nor plant with frail flowers the sod;
There is rest among roses too sweet for its gloom,
And life where the lilies eternally bloom,
	In the balm-breathing gardens of God.

Yet deeply those memories burn
	Which bind me to you and to earth,
And I sometimes have thought that my being would
		yearn
In the bowers of the beautiful home to return
	And visit the home of its birth,

'Twould even be pleasant to stay
	And walk by your side till the last:
But the land-breeze of heaven is beginning to play—
Life shadows are meeting Eternity's day,
	And its tumult is hushed in the past.

Leona, good-by; should the grief
	That is gathering now, ever be
Too dark for your faith, you will long for relief,
And remember the journey, though lonesome is brief,
	O'er lowland and river to me.


THE Spanish government has issued a decree
permitting the Jews to return to Spain. This
concession has been granted at the suggestion
of an influential Israelite to the Spanish minis-
ter at Constantinople.


[Column 1]
PEN SKETCH OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS
			WOMAN
	ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH
		CONTINUED
	Sister Eliza entered upon her duties as su-
perintendent of the Woman's Store immedi-
ately after the October Conference, 1876, and
by her careful and prudent management and
her practical executive ability, succeeded in
establishing without money, a home manufac-
ture mercantile department, which still exists
as proof positive of her eminent success in this
line of labor. President Young fully acknow-
ledged she had done what he had been trying
for years to get one or more of the brethren to
do, but could not persuade them to undertake
it without capital. Sister Eliza thus demon-
strated the fact that women have faith and
courage to undertake what men would consider
a hopeless enterprise. Goods were sold on
commission, lady clerks were employed, and a
lady sat at the desk and kept the books. Sis-
ter Eliza not only looked after the minutest
details of work, but actually performed some
of the real labor herself.
	During this year she had also much literary
labor to do. Her second volume of poems was
about to be published, and required some time
and attention, and in the autumn of the same
year arrangements were made to publish a
book containing sketches of Mormon women.
The money was to be furnished in shares by
Relief Societies or individuals as the case
might be. Sister Eliza set about the work in
good earnest. There were writings to be
gathered up, as well as money to be collected,
and manuscript to read and revise, requiring
not only considerable labor, but a great deal
of tact, discrimination and judgment. She
read and prepared many hundreds of pages of
all kinds of writing for Mr. E.W. Tullidge, to
cull and select from afterwards and work into
the book he was writing, to be called "The Wo-
men of Mormondom," and when the type set-
ting commenced she was expected to give all
the proof one reading at least. Let the reader
remember this work was done while Sister
Eliza was superintending the store, from eight
o'clock in the morning until six in the evening
daily. This constant employment hindered
her from traveling among the settlements as
much as formerly, but she still kept up her
regular work in the House of the Lord, weekly
or semi-weekly and also attended meetings in
the city and suburbs from time to time.
	Early in the year 1877 the two books upon
which the lady had been so arduously engag-
ed during the winter evenings, were sent to
press. Her second "Volume of Poems" here
in the Deseret News Office and the "Women
of Mormondom" in New York City. Both
works contain a steel engraving of the lady,
executed in New York, with her autograph,
Eliza R. Snow, beneath the picture.
	The book of Poems was very delicately dedi-
cated to Brigham Young, the dedication being
in verse; but two months after, and while the
manuscript of the poems was still in the hands
of the printers, Brigham Young passed behind
the veil, and the same volume finishes with a
poem entitled "Funeral of President Brigham
Young," which is touchingly sublime in its
description of that solemn and imposing occa-
sion. We give here a few extracts:
		*	*	*	*	*
"From morn till noon, the body lay in State
And thousands came, a tribute of respect
To pay, and take a last—a parting view
Of the illustrious dead.
				The funeral rites
Were on the Sabbath day. At service hour,
The spacious tabernacle densely filled
Was thronged by anxious multitudes without:

[Column 2]
Within one vacant chair remained
Enrobed in folds of solemn drapery
		*	*	*	*	*	*
"But men of God were there—men who had 'borne
With him, the heat and burden of the day.'
Apostles, Prophets, Revelators, Seers,
Brave, noble men, whose hearts had never quailed;
Who knew no fear when times were perilous,
But now, when speaking of their leader's worth—
Their love for him—their loss and Zion's loss;
The firm lip quiver'd and the dew of grief,
Beneath their eyelids gathered. Strong men wept."
	*		*		*		*
"All Israel were mourners; but the corse
Was followed by a num'rous weeping train
Of those, by dear and filial ties, his own."
	*		*		*		*
"Ne'er was a father more affectionate
Nor yet an earthly father more beloved."
	*		*		*		*
"He loved his people. Their high destiny.
Will be a monument to Brigham Young."

	A short time previous to the death of Pres.
Young, 'The Women of Mormondom," on
which Sister Eliza had spent much precious
time and to publish which she had used her
influence with the Relief Societies, was issued.
Pres. Young had the opportunity of examining
the book and expressing his opinion of the
value of the publication. He had an inter-
esting conversation with Sister Eliza upon the
matter the evening before he was seized with his
last sickness, and manifested a great in-
terest in the work which appeared to him to be
opening up for women in the world. He sug-
gested that a number of the sisters should go
but into the world and speak upon the plat-
form advocating the principles of our faith and
named one or two suitable persons for the lec-
ture field.
	Sister Eliza has always interceded for the
good of the women of Utah, whom she so ably
represents, and often when she might have
enjoyed pleasant associations on her own ac-
count, such as every woman naturally desires,
she sacrificed it for the sake of benefiting
others and promoting the advancement of the
work for woman's higher culture and progres-
sion, instead of her own personal interests.
Such has always been her life and character.
Sister Eliza, by her unbounded faith in the
capacity of women and by prompt and ener-
getic action at any and all times when possible,
has greatly influenced the destiny of "Mormon"
women; how much so, will probably never be
known.
			To be continued.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	WE are given to understand that the Princess
Louise of Lorne is the composer of the new set
of valses on old Scotch airs, published under
the name of Louise Campbell.
	M'DLLE SARAH BERNHARDT already gives
out that she intends to make a second tour in
America by-and-bye, when she hopes to play to
the Americans in their own language. She is
now hard at her English studies.
	THE Rev. Timothy Flint used to say that,
"If this world is ever to become a better and
happier world, Woman, properly enlightened,
aware of her influence, and disposed to exert it
aright, must be the prime mover in the great
work."
	Is M. Gambetta about to declare on the side
of Woman's Rights? It would seem so, from a
speech of his at the Trocadero in which the
following passage occurs:—"Without exaggera-
tion, it is certain, gentlemen, that reforms ought
to be introduced into our legislation which
shall give to woman all her prestige, all her
authority, all her rights, and the power to ex-
ercise them."


44	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	—	AUGUST 15, 1881.


[Column 1]

WOMAN SUFFRAGE IN UTAH.

	THE August election is over. The votes have
been cast and counted. The members of the
Legislature and other officers nominated, have
been elected. Who did the voting? A few of
the registered voters of the People's party.
Who attended the Primary meetings in the
several precincts?  A very few men, scarcely
any women, barely enough to transact the ne-
cessary business, viz., to elect the given num-
ber of delegates to form a County Convention.
Is this right? Is it consistent with the princi-
ples of "life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness"
about which we hear so much said? We think
not! Have women no interest at stake in these
matters. Have they no homes to guard, nor
families whose future well-being is dearer to
them than their own life? Here is an oppor-
tunity opened for woman to exercise a privilege
which gives her power in the government. Is
it possible that women of intelligence, women
who have had great experiences and great know-
ledge of right and wrong, of injustice and oppres-
sion, can hold such grand responsibilities light-
ly? It is a matter of wonder and astonishment.
Is it even good policy to be indifferent to one's
highest interests in times of peace and prosper-
ity? Assuredly not. "Eternal vigilance is the
price of liberty." Would that these grand words
were framed in large and glittering letters, and
hung upon the walls in the home of every
family, that they might be ever present in the
minds of the household. Are not those who
sit at their ease and do not attend to the duties
which devolve upon them in the common walks
of life culpable? Freedom is a precious boon;
it is worth making strenuous efforts to retain,
indeed it is worth almost any sacrifice. Then
why this lethargy in regard to voting? Is it for
want of thought? In this Territory, where the
privilege has been granted women of exercising
the right of franchise, and with all the teaching
and instruction that has been given from time
to time, verbal and written, it is remarkable
that women do not comprehend the power
which is in their hands for good, and come for-
ward in their united strength and help main-
tain the rights; which will secure to them and
those they love, and their children, the homes
and the liberty of which in times past they
have been so unjustly deprived; yes, when they
had not the opportunity of representation they
now enjoy. Women of Utah! do you reflect
upon these things? Do you appreciate the bless-
ing of the ballot? If you do, why do you not
manifest it by your works? Have you no rights
to maintain? Have you no apprehension of
danger from neglect of these duties?
	Then, again, how few comparatively of those
who are foreign-born become citizens. It
seems unaccountable, that knowing as they

[Column 2]

must know, how important a thing it is to be a
citizen of the United States, one could be con-
tent until he or she had taken the necessary
steps towards naturalization. Be advised and
step forward, that you may not be held respon-
sible for any neglect of duty in political matters;
for be sure they have a bearing upon your best
interests; your homes, your rights, your liberty
and all that makes life happy or desirable.
Arouse yourselves; read and reflect. Take pains
to become enlightened upon these subjects, and
see if they are not of more consequence to you
than many of the things about which you take
so much trouble, and upon which you spend so
much time. Some may ask do men need the
help of women in political affairs? Are they
not disgusted with women who push them-
selves forward in public meetings? This is not
a question of preference as we understand the
matter. It is an imperative duty. The women
of Utah understand how the the suffrage was
bestowed upon them—and knowing this, as they
do, can they for one moment think, they are
not called upon to exercise that right? We
have sufficient confidence in the character of
men to believe they respect women most, who
respect themselves; who regard their rights as
sacred, whether political or otherwise; who
would exert their utmost influence to protect
their homes, and maintain the institutions of
freedom, which every free-born man and woman
in possession of ordinary intelligence holds dear-
er than life itself.


HOME AFFAIRS.

 REMINDER: Relief Society Stake Secretaries
are expected to forward semi-annual reports to
September 15th, 1881, for the approaching Con-
ference.
 THE Secretaires of the several Branch Relief
Societies of this Stake, will please send in their
reports no later than the 5th of September, 1881.
Direct to, ELIZABETH HOWARD, Stake Sec'y.
	Mrs. Zina D. Young and Dr. Ellen B. Fergu-
son expect to leave this city for the East about
the 20th inst.  We wish them a pleasant jour-
ney and trust they may do much good where-
ever they  may have an opportunity of speaking
in public or in private.
	The Children's Fair for Salt Lake County
Primary Associations will be held in this city
Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, September
15, 16, and 17, under the auspices of Mrs. Ellen
C. S. Clawson and her Counselors and assist-
ants.  There will be no charge made except the
price of admission to visitors, which will be for
adults 10 cents, under 12 years of age 5cts.  All
the associations are invited to bring specimens
of work.  It is anticipated that this Fair will be
held in the Social hall.
 CLASSES in Obstetrics: Dr. R. B. Pratt's class
in this branch of the medical profession, consist-
ing of six ladies have just finished their course
of study and lectures, and passed their examina-
tion satisfactorily, with credit to themselves and
the Dr.  The ladies are Elizabeth M. Jones,
South Cotton Wood, Sarah J. Banks, Spanish
Fork, Jane M. Howell, Clifton, Idaho. Lucy
Ann H. Woolf, Hyde Park. M. E. G. Vanschoo-
ven and Lucy Pratt Russell of this city.  The lad-
ies were blest and set apart for their professional
work, Saturday, August 13th, by President Jos-
eph F. Smith and counselor Daniel H. Wells.
	Their certificates are signed by Doctors Ellen
B. Ferguson and Romania B. Pratt.  These
sisters are going out among the people to enter
practically with due appreciation of its import-
ance upon this work.  They are women of experince
and accustomed to attending upon the sick.


THE following notice from the "San Francisco
Chronicle" was received, with a card bearing the
compliments of the lady and gentleman and a
pretty Japanese napkin, fine and soft as crape.
The lady is the daughter of Judge W. W. Phelps
(deceased) and an occasional contributor to the
EXPONENT.
		A TIN WEDDING.
	Mr. and Mrs. J. C. Lane were agreeably sur-
prised at their residence, No. 404 Capp street,
on Saturday evening last by a large party of
friends, who reminded them that they intended
to celebrate the tenth anniversary of their wed-
ded life by showering on the still youthful
couple a varied assortment of tinware, sufficient
in quantity to sink a ship. Prominent among the
presents were a large tin cradle, a complete din-
ner service, also of tin, on which the surprisers
afterwards served a bountiful collation, and a
gigantic tin star, emblematic of Mr. Lane's con-
nection with the Police Department. After do-
ing justice to the good things provided a most en-
joyable evening was spent by the assembled
guests in exchanging reminiscences of the past,
dancing, singing, etc.


UNIVERSITY OF DESERET.

	The first Term of the Academic Year 1881-82
of the University will begin Monday, August
22d, at 9 A. M., in the University building.
	In addition to the regular courses of study,
classes will be formed in French, German, and
in Music and Harmony under the tuition of Mr.
A. Andre: and others, also, in Drawing and in
Painting, under the tuition of Mr. W. Armitage.
	For circulars, or further information relative
to the Institution, address,John R. Park, Pre-
sident of Faculty.


FINE SPECIMEN OF UTAH SILK.

	PAUL A. Schettler, Esq., of this city, has
shown us a very superior quality of silk goods
manufactured from the cocoons raised at his
farm south-east of the city. Mrs. Josephine
Schettler (deceased) raised the cocoons and
reeled the silk from which it was made; it was
doubled and twisted at the new silk factory, a
little way up City Creek Canyon. Not being able
to get the silk woven here, Bro. Schettler sent it
East some time ago, and the work was done at
Patterson, New Jersey. The cloth is 33 inches in
width, very superior in quality, and is pure in
fabric, unlike the imported silk, which always
contains some proportion of other material.
These two pieces of silk are by far the most ele-
gant we have seen of the home raised article.
One is plain grey and the other is a handsome
brocade.


COFFIN RE-UNION.

MBS. ELMIRA P. TUFT.

	DEAR MADAM: Your letter and the one from
Prof. Barfoot, apprising me that specimens of
your vast wealth of minerals had been forward-
ed for the benefit of the Coffin Re-union, were
duly received. The box arrived the following
day, and the specimens appear to be in very
good order. Please accept through me (as far
as I am able to express the sentiments of the
association,) its profound gratitude to you for so
kindly remembering it in so generous a gift.
	I am very truly yours,
				ALLEN COFFIN,
						Secretary T. C. R. A.
	P. S.—I personally very much regret that we
shall not have your presence and that of your
family at the Re-union, but we shall remember
you kindly.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


IN MEMORIAM.

		ELIZA WOODS WALLIN.

	"Yet less of sorrow lives in me
	For days of happy commune dead;
	Less yearning for the friendship fled,
	Than some strong bond which is to be.”

	It is always painful to record the death of
those we love and particularly sad when the cir-
cumstances are harrowing. A mother in the
prime of life taken from the bosom of her fami-
ly seems lamentable, yet God's ways are not as
our ways and we can only bow our heads in
meek submission and say, "Thy will not mine
be done O Lord,"

	"And if, through patient toil, we reach the land
	Where tired feet with sandals loosed may rest,
	Where we shall clearly know and understand,
	I think that we will say, 'God knew the best.'"

	Mrs. Eliza Woods Wallin, whose death occur-
red in this city at ten minutes past six o'clock
Wednesday morning, August 3d, 1881, was the
beloved wife of C. E. Wallin and only sister of
Major W. W. Woods, also the neice of Counselor
D. H. Wells. Mrs. Wallin died of puerperal
peritonitis, one week after her confinement, and
left an infant daughter which only survived the
mother two days. The deceased lady was the
daughter of James and Catherine Wells Woods,
and was born in Burlington, Iowa, February 10,
1843, and was aged 38 years, five months and 23
days at the time of her death. Mrs. Wallin
came to Utah previous to her marriage in the
spring of 1872, and has resided here ever since.
She was married to C. E. Wallin in October
of the same year, and has been the mother of
four children, three daughters and one son.
Three of them live to miss the love and atten-
tion of as kind and devoted a mother as ever
lived. They are too young as yet to realize the
dreadful loss they have sustained.

				"There is none,
In all this cold and hollow world, no fount
Of deep strong deathless love, save that within
A mother's heart!"

	Mrs. Wallin was indeed a tender, watchful,
solicitous mother, a true and affectionate wife,
a wise, prudent and efficient counselor to her
husband. She was amiable and exemplary in
character, and greatly endeared herself to her
relatives and friends for the many estimable
qualities of heart and mind which she possessed.
The lady has an aged father residing in Ham-
burg, Iowa, who will be deeply affected by her
sudden death. Mrs. Wallin was tenderly cared
for in her last illness by her brother's wife, Mrs.
W. W. Woods, assisted by other dear friends.
	The funeral was held in St. Mark's Church on
Thursday, at four o'clock p.m., Rev. Mr. Kirby
officiating. The hymn "Nearer my God to
Thee," was very beautifully rendered by the
choir. Mrs. Wallin was buried by the side of
her brother, N. P. Woods, Esq., who died in
this city a few years ago. On Saturday morn-
ing, Aug. 7, the grave of Mrs. Wallin was open-
ed and her infant daughter, Mabel Blanche, was
placed in the tomb with her mother.
	There are many dear relatives and friends
here and elsewhere who will sincerely mourn
the death of the dear departed one. May hea-
ven bless the bereaved family and especially the
little ones so early deprived of a loving mother's
care and tenderness.			E. B. W.


A GOOD MAN  GONE TO REST.

 Died at his residence in the 20th Ward, Salt
Lake City, Thursday morning, August 4th, 1881,
at six o'clock, Elder William C. Staines, who for
many years has held the important position of
emigration agent for the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints.  Bro. Staines has been ill
for some months, but only recently confined to
his bed.  His sufferings were very great, seem-
ing to be a complication of diseases which baffled
the skill of the most eminent physicians.
	Deceased was born on the 26th day of Septem-
ber, 1818, at Higham Ferries, Northamptonshire,
England, and had nearly attained his 63d year.
 Bro. Staines has been a member of this
Church ever since the days of his youth.  He
first heard the gospel in his native land when
he was scarcely twenty-three years old and was
baptized a year afterwards.  He gathered with
the Saints at Nauvoo, in April, 1843.  He passed
through the trials of the eventful days which
subsequently took place, and left that beautiful
city with the first company of exiles in the dead
of winter, in 1846.
 While journeying westward with the Saints,
after the famous Mormon Battalion had started
for Mexico, a small company was fitted out to
make an effort to cross the Rocky Mountans be-
fore the winter should set in.  Bro. Staines was
one of that number.  President Young after-
wards deciding it would not be practicable for
them to proceed the entire distance, advised them
to winter on Grand Island, a few miles west of
the Platte River.  However the little company
were visited by some Ponca chiefs who invited
them to winter with their camp.  The Ponca
Indians were about to start for their winter
hunting-ground and some of the brethren were
invited to join them.  Bro. Staines was one of
that number; he accepted the mission, for such
it was, and during that, to him, memorable
time, he experienced not only hardship, fatigue,
sickness and privation, but most wonderful
manifestations of the power of God.  He arrived
in the valley in September, 1847, with the
pioneer companies of families who followed the
first pioneers.  He was sent on a mission to his
native land in 1859 and had charge of the Lon-
don Conference until the spring of 1863. In
that year he commenced his labors in New
York as agent for the emigration, which position
he left to return home on account of his failing
health this season.
 He was a man of sterling integrity, and un-
bounded faith in the principles of the gospel and
the work of the latter-day dispensation. His
eminent ability to transact business and his po-
liteness, courtesy and kindness to all classes of
people, his shrewdness, tact and excellent judg-
ment are all abundantly proven from the fact,
that for the eighteen years he managed the
emigration affairs, having immigrated 50,000
people, he has had no difficulty of any kind,
although he transacted business with railroad
men, steamship companies, and dealt with peo-
ple of all nations, yet he was held in the high-
est esteem and won the respect and friendship of
many thousands, by his affability of manner,
his amiability and uprightness of character and
his untiring patience for the good and well
being of others.  Too much cannot be sa-d in
his praise; he was a man of fine education and a
high order of intelligence which rendered him a
pleasant and entertaining companion to all
with whom he was associated.  There are thou-
sands to bless his honored name had reverently
cherish his memory for his many kindly deeds
of unostentatious charity.  He was fondly at-
tached to home and fireside companionship, and
his refined taste was apparent in the exquisite
though simple elegance of his houses and
grounds which he was every year improving.
He was a natural horti- and flori-culturist, and
his home surroundings were ever an attraction
to all, as well as an ornamentation to the city.
	Brother Staines had many warm friends who
sincerely mourn his absence, but he has passed
to endless life, and joined the hosts of those who
await the first resurrection, many of whom he
knew and loved upon the earth.
 We deeply sympathize with his bereaved
household, and pray that they may be com-
forted in their loneliness by the Holy Spirit and
the assurances which the gospel imparts to all
who obey its precepts and endure faithful unto
the end of the race.
	"Weep not for him that dieth,
	For he wath ceased from tears,
	And a voice to his replieth-
	Which he hath not heard for years."
 The funeral of Elder Staines was held in the
Salt Lake Assembly Hall on Friday, August
5th, at three o'clock p. m., when Pres. Joseph F.
Smith preached an eloquent and consoling fu-
neral discourse.  The magnificent walnut coffin
was delicately decorated with lovely flowers, of
which the deceased was such an appreciative ad-
mirer, and a star and crescent ingeniously woven
of the the choicest white flowers adorned the cen-
tre of the casket.  Hundreds of people in car-
riages followed the remains of Br. Staines to the
cemetry.
 Though absent he will not be forgotten, but
the rememberance of his generous deeds and no
ble life will live forever in the hearts of those
who knew and loved him.			E.B.W.


SARAH SHIPLEY.

		"Whom the gods love die young."
	DIED in Brighton, of heart disease, at the re-
sidence of Major Stephen B. Rose, at six o'clock
a. m., August 5, Sarah Shipley, aged 22 years,
three months and two days. Deceased was the
daughter of Joseph and Elizabeth Shipley, well
known in this Territory, and was born at Amer-
ican Fork, Utah Co., May 3d, 1859; was baptized
when eight years old, and about a year ago re-
ceived her endowments in the House of the
Lord. She was a girl of great faith and estima-
ble in character, gentle, affable and kind; she
won all hearts, and was never known to have a
single enemy. She was a wise and able coun-
selor in her father's family and could always
comprehend well the condition of affairs, and
judge correctly. In her last illness she called
for the Elders, and was often administered to.
She called all her fathers' family around her pre-
vious to her departure, which she knew to be
imminent, and gave them each advice and
counsel, beseeching them to continue faithful to
the gospel, and keep the Spirit of the Lord. She
had no fear of death, but the utmost confidence
in her Heavenly Father's love.
	Her remains were taken to American Fork
on Saturday, the 6th inst., and on Sunday the
funeral services were held in the meeting house
in that city. Bishop Harrington and Elder
Whittaker were the speakers. Miss Shipley
was buried by the side of her little sister Eliza
in the American Fork graveyard. We deeply
sympathize with the sorrowing family, while
we are assured that with Sarah all is well.
	E. B. W.


A REMINISCENCE.

WINTER QUARTERS.

	Shortly after the settlement at Winter Quar-
ters, I do not remember the date, living next to
the Historian's Office, I had the privilege of
seeing a copy of a vision, President Young had
at that time and being permitted to take items
from it, I copied what I felt would be a com-
fort and benefit to me on my long journeying,
about to take place, for I was about to visit
England my native land, with my husband who
was going upon a mission, and I felt I needed
something to say to the people. I give it here


as near as possible having copied it from the
original manuscript.
	Joseph stepped towards me and looking very
earnestly, yet pleasantly said, "Tell the people
to be humble and faithful, and be sure to keep
the spirit of the Lord, and it will lead them
right; be careful and not turn away the still
small voice: it will teach you how to do and
where to go; it will yield the fruits of the king-
dom: Tell the brethren to keep their hearts
open to convicton so that when the Holy Ghost
comes to them, their hearts will be ready to re-
ceive it, They can tell the Spirit of the Lord
from other spirits; it will whisper peace, and
joy to their souls; it will take malice, hatred,
strife and all evil from their hearts; and their
whole desire will be to do good, bring forth
righteousness and build up the kingdom of God.
Tell the brethren if they will follow the Spirit
of the Lord they will go right.
	Be sure to tell the people to keep the Spirit of
the Lord and if they will, they will find them-
selves just as they were organized by our Father
in Heaven, before they came into the world.
Our Father in Heaven organized the human
family, but they are all disorganized and in
great confusion." Joseph then showed me the
pattern, how they were in the beginning. This
I cannot describe; but I saw it, and saw when
the Priesthood had been taken from the earth,
and how it must be joined together so as to make
a perfect chain from Father Adam to his latest
posterity. Tell the people to be sure to keep the
Spirit of the Lord, and follow it, and it will lead
them just right."
	It seemed that Brother Young was shown
into a place where he saw Joseph sitting a little
higher than the floor where he stood, with some
persons around him, but being so overjoyed to
see Joseph he went straight to salute him when
he found a barrier of some kind which pre-
vented him approaching nearer. Joseph said,
you cannot come now, but must wait awhile
till your work is done; and then conversed a
good while with him concerning events past and
to come, when about to leave, he, Brigham,
asked Joseph what he should say to the people
from him, upon which the piece I have now
copied from the manuscript was the answer.
								S. G. R.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
			REPORTS.

		BELLEVUE PRIMARY.

﻿	When Sisters E. R. Snow Smith and Zina
D. Young, passed through Bellevue on their
way north last March, they called the few
families who are here together ([-]ix in number)
and organized the Primary and Relief Societies.
Twenty children's names appeard on the roll,
but only about ten or twelve attend; s[-]me be-
ing mere babies. During the few months w[-]ich
have passed, much has been accomplished
comparatively speaking. Through donations
the sum of $3.40, has been put in the Treasury;
$3.10 having been spent for books and tracts
leaving 30 cts. in the Treasury. The tiny
library contains eighteen books and tracts; be-
sides which, each child has a Primary Hymn
Book. The meetings are held on Sunday
morning, presided over by Mrs. Mary W. Gates,
and although never having had any previous
experience in this line, Sister Gates has a nat-
ural aptitude and an attractive motherly way
with the children, which eminently fit her for
the place she occupies. I must say I admire
her practical way of giving the little ones ideas
that they can lay hold of, instead of boreing
them with abstruse subjects and preaching
that they cannot understand. The usual
programme is carried out and although not cul-
tivated in music herself her children are
natural muscians and singing is one of the prin-
cipal features. Minutes are strictly kept and

[Column 2]
the President tells me a good record-book is
an aim for the near future. The writings of
E. R. Snow Smith and the little pamphlet of
Hannah T. King's Women of the Scripture,
are read weekly to the little ones. Also "Gems"
"My First Mission" &c. &c. A little Jubilee
was planned and executed by the Pres., and
Association for the Faculty and Twenty-
Fourth, which was the first thing of the kind
ever attempted in this settlement. Programme
of the Twenty-Fourth: Song, Joseph Smith's
First Prayer, by the children, prayer by Elder
Jacob Gates, song "In our lovely Deseret," by
four little girls; all the children joining in the
chorus, dialogue by Luella Hanks and Claude
Gates, recitation by George Anderson; song
"Put me in my little bed" by three little ones—
Dancing—song. "Here we stand, hand in hand,"
by five little ones from two years old to five,
recitations, by four little girls, recitation by
Minnie Gates, recitation by Irona Hanks.
	The children having done their part most
prettily Elder Jocob Gates was invited to sing,
which he did rendering the song "The old oak"
with much spirit and vigor. Brother and
Sister Goold followed with "hard times" and
Bro. and Sister Sylvester with another
song, and Bro. McDougall with a recita-
tion.	The picnic supper followed and
full justice was done to the excellent viands,
after which Master Claude Gates sang "We
are the children of the Saints, the children
all singing the chorus, and Bro. Sylvester closed
with prayer. Thus ended a spirited, pleasant
entertainment, showing what energy and tact
can accomplish when guided by the Spirit of
God.
				SUSA YOUNG GATES.

		     BEAVER STAKE.

	The R.S., of Beaver held their Quart-
erly Conference at Minersville, on the fifteenth,
of July. Sister L. Howd presiding. There
was a good attendance of brethren and sisters
from the other settlements. After the opening
exercises the morning was occupied with the
reading of reports, and some excellent instruc-
tions from the sisters. In the afternoon Bishop
McKnight and other brethren made some
cheering and instructive remarks, commending
the sisters for their diligence in well doing. A
spirit of love and union prevailed, which
exist nowhere but among the Saints. The so-
cieties throughout the County were reported in
a prosperous condition, the members all feeling
to rejoice in the blessings they possess through
the goodness of God.
				E. A. FARNSWORTH, Sec'y

	     PRIMARY CONFERENCE

	The Salt Lake Stake Primary Conference
was held in the Assembly Hall in this city
Saturday morning, June 18th, Mrs. Ellen C.
S. Clawson presiding. Opened by singing,
"We thank thee O, God for a prophet." Prayer
by Mrs. M. Isabella Horne. Singing "Children
do you love each other." Minutes of previous
Conferen[-]e read and accepted. Verbal reports
given from [-]he 3d, 10th, 11th, 12th, 13th, 14th,
15th, 16th, 1[-]h, 18th, 19th, 20th, and 21st,
Wards of the ci[--]. Singing by the children at
intervals during the time the reports were be-
ing given. Seven or [-]ight little girls sung
"Hope of Israel" and ag[-]in "Come and join
our army." This was done [---] order that the
meeting might not be so mono[---]ous for the
children. After the reports the following
ladies addressed the children upon o[--]dience
to parents, punctuality, truthfulness, and [-]ther
appropriate subjects in simple language sui[--]d
to the capacity of children, Sisters Louie Felt,
Camilla Cobb, M. Isabella Horne, E. C. S.
Clawson.	The Children's Fair to be opened in

[Column 3]
September was spoken of and the children were
urged to prepare articles for exhibition.	Con-
ference was adjourned for three months. Sing-
ing "Gather up the sunbeams." Benediction
by Mrs. Phebe Woodruff.
			VILATE C. YOUNG, Sec'y.

	     18TH, WARD PRIMARY.

	The Eighteenth Ward Primary Association
was organized by Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith
and at the present time the officers are as fol-
lows. President, Anne B. Snow; counselors,
Hannah M. Wright and Margaret P. Young;
secretary, Rachel Patrick; treasurer Eliza
Edmonds. Number of members 87. Order of
exercises singing, prayer, singing, minutes of
the previous meeting read, and then the pro-
gramme is in order, which consists of select
reading, from the Old and New Testament,
Book of Mormon and miscellaneous works also,
songs, recitations, dialogues, questions, to be
answered by the little ones. The Secretary
then calls the roll, and if there are any who
wish to become members they are voted in; if
there is no other business,meeting is adjourned
for one week with singing and prayer. I would
also state that there have been several things
made by the children of the Association for the
County Fair.
				RACHEL PATRICK, Sec'y

		      TOQUERVILLE.

	We had a visit at Toquerville last
spring from Sisters E. R. Snow Smith, Zina D.
Young and Minerva Snow. They gave us
some good instructions and organized a Pri-
mary Association, which I think will be the
means of much good. About that time we had
a visit from sister Mary Nebeker from Bear
Lake, she attended our meetings and seemed
to enjoy the visit very much; she has a sister
in this settlement. The sisters in our society
one and all express a desire to live their re-
ligion and do all they can in assisting to build
up the Relief Society and other organizations
in the kingdom of God. We have sent for a
Church Organ using the money we had in the
treasury for that purpose, thinking it might
be a benefit to our Primary Association in en-
couraging the young to attend meeting. The
weather is oppressively warm at present; we
are anticipating a good time on the 24th.
	Ever wishing for the success of the EXPON-
ENT, I remain your sister in the everlasting
Gospel.
			ELISABETH W. LUNT, Sec'y.


WHILE at Hampton on Friday the Prince
of Wales suddenly found himself hailed as
King of Egypt. Some gypsies got round the
Royal carriage, but her Royal Highness de-
clined to inquire too curiously into the future.
The Prince of Wales propitiated the dark-skin-
ned children of Pharaoh by purchasing from
one of the fraternity a couple of cubs. From this
act of generosity he was promptly hailed by
the queen gipsy as King of Egypt.  Prophecy
had probably little to do with the cry, and in
Mr. Gladstone's time of non-intervention it will
possess no meaning; but with Lord Beacons-
field in power the apostrophe of the gipsy wo-
man might have had some significance.


MRS. C. T. COLE, of Mt. Pleasant, Iowa, at
Council Bluffs, June 23, read an excellent paper,
in which she made a plea for the ideal home.
	MME. ADELINA PATTI is really coming to
America, and passage for herself, her attend-
ants and M. Nicolini, has been engaged on the
Servia, sailing October 22.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MY LITTLE FRIEND,

				-----
	My little friend, plainly dressed in black
and white, comes to see me twice a month.
How the visit of this tiny one is desired by my
children and by myself.  Eyes grow brighter,
as feet fly faster, to anounce her coming.  Im-
patiently, the moments fly until a respite in
work, gives time for us to sit and hear the
choice words stored up for our hearing.  Her
coming is usually when the sun has sunk into
the legendary "hole in the ground," of the red
man, of the mountains, and twilight comes the
mellowest time of the day.  The hot air of the
south is cooled, and birds dart hither and
thither after their insect prey.
	Darkness comes on, the lamp is lit, and
gathering around our friend, the friend of all,
the expounder of principles of life and salva-
tion, speaking in poetry, and prose, and eloqu-
ently giving us the words of our sisters that
are far away, we listen.
	Little friend, how looms up before me faces
that are distant, and the echoes of voices that I
hear not.  Silent is she, until she finds some
one to give a voice to the innermost expressions
of her heart, her noble thoughts, and sympa-
thetic words.  As she visits me so do her numer-
ous sisters visit other families at the same hour,
laden with the same instructions, counsel, love,
and pity.  Who is she?  What is her name?
					EMILY B. SPENCER.


[Column 1]

THE DAYS OF OUR GRANDMOTHERS.

	The fact can scarcely be overlooked that in
the matter of fashion in many respects we are
a hundred years back in the days of our ances-
tors. This has been brought about principally
through the Centennial Exhibition of 1876,
when people were called upon to rake up every
old styles, and garrets and worm-eaten chests
and drawers were ransacked and revising and
renewing drew out the beauty and utility of
those old clothing materials, crockery, furniture
etc., and now we have the same styles and col-
ors with various improvements, and all the old
designs of crockery, furniture and tapestry.
	It is a great pity that withal we have not
initiated ourselves into those habits of industry
and economny that characterized our fore-
mothers and also adopted the elegant manners
and deportment of the ladies and gentlemen of
that age. This would have been greatly to our
credit, for with the vast improvements in all
the departments of life and labor, it is ap-
parent to the observer in modern society every-
where that to a great extent the true elegance
of modest manners has departed. I know there
are some who say it is the fault of women more
than men; that girls are so forward now-adays
placing themselves on a footing with men, and
certainly men will not pay them the same a-
mount of deference they were wont to do, when
they were more modest and retiring.
	It may be hard in the midst of a revolution
in society such as the agitation of equal suf-
frage is making to maintain a proper balance,
it is always so with all radical changes, but I
protest against this decay in manners being
due to the influence of suffrage at all. The
young women of to-day in what is termed polite
society, and it is the young women who rule
and not their elders, and this is another evil of
which we may justly complain are not what
may be turned suffragists, O, no, they do not
believe in it—in fact they do not comprehend
the subject at all—it is too fatiguing for them
to understand they would not worry their
brains with it they are willing to leave all that,
to those who are acquainted with the subject.
They would not be considered as belonging to a
reform, the word horrifies them; indeed their
health would not admit of so much exertion as
voting and attending meetings would require.
No, these young ladies would dance all night

[Column 2]

figure at watering places and public resorts of
that character, but could not possibly bear to
go to the polls or speak in public.
	It may be that there was a little too much
formality in days gone by, and in dispensing
with a portion of it we have gone to the other
extreme.
	Free Americanism we often hear, made the
cause of all this license in manners. "We don't
bow the knee to any living one" and so on,
but the Scripture says "honor to whom honor
is due" and one of the Ten Commandments
expressly declares "honor thy father and
thy mother" etc. It is sometimes said this
is the homage of the heart and does not consist
so much in action, but I persist in believing
that there is much in manner. Rudeness and
coarseness in manner is offensive to a sensitive
nature, and there is no doubt it is also dispeas-
ing to God.
	Every one must acknowledge upon reflection
at least, that to go into the presence of angels
or great and holy beings, one would need be
qualified, and yet go on from year to year,
here below where there is every facility for
improvement totally regardless of advancement
and actually sneering at those who are making
efforts towards a preparation for a higher
sphere.
	Politeness is conducive to kindness and also
to peace and good order, and gentleness of man-
ner is indicative of a noble heart. Rudeness
and uncouth manners tend to confusion and
disorder, and are not a sign of genuine, sterling
qualities of soul, although I know it is some-
times so interpreted. Deference to others even
in one's own family begets in return the same
kindliness and engenders a better feeling, than
so much familiarity and disregard of ceremoney
We reveal ourselves perpetually in our deport-
ment, and it is the standard by which we must
in some measure be judged, at least by those to
whom we are not intimately known.
	The Apostle said "shun the appearance of
evil," which must have related to one's actions
or manners. What a man or woman does,
tells what they are; words are not always to
be relied upon, for often actions do not corre-
spond with them. The pretty little formalities
and courtesies of life which were customary in
olden times, at least a century ago, tend much
more to grace of manner and refinement, than
the brusque and forward manners which pass
muster in the present day. A moderate amount
of diffidence, is preferable to over much con-
fidence, and a prudent reserve in one's behavior
is much more elegant and impressive than the
attempt at breaking down all restraint, regard-
less of the principles of order which must be
maintained if people would preserve their self-
respect. Therefore I will say again, let us
encourage some return to the manners of the
past, as well as the colors, patterns and styles
of dress and ornimentation.
	The industries too of our ancestry are dying
out, and giving place to ease and luxury, which
are fatal to the highest culture of the mind or
soul. Ladies of leisure do not now apply them-
selves to the useful employments they once did.
Industry amounts to a virtue, for idleness is as
much the parent of vice in the palace of the
rich as in the cottage of the poor. The woman
who spends her days in idle dreaming, fritters
her time away in promenades, balls and such
like places is just as culpable as the poor ignor-
ant creature who revels in gossip and retails
scandal.
	We talk of our daughters becoming like
polished stones, but unless we change our tacties,
they are very likely to fall short of the high
standard of attainment we had marked out.
Solomon said "Give her of the fruit of her
hands and let her own works praise her in the
gates." We are not told that this applies to
the poor only, we understand it like all other
Scripture as applying to the rich as well as the

[Column 3]

poor. There are a class of people who seem
to think money is an excuse for all manner of
rudenesses to others, and by their tone of voice
and insolence of manner toward the industrious
who earn their own living, betray their lack of
politeness, and respect for genuine ability.
	This class of ladies and gentlemen cannot
compare with the high-bred and well-bred gen-
tlemen and gentlewomen of the days of our
grandmothers; notwithstanding all the im-
provements of the age and the grandeur of our
modern society.
	AUNT EM.


SUFFRAGE PETITION OF ITALIAN
				WOMEN
				    -----
	The following is a translation of the petition
for the franchise which is now being circulated
for signatures in Italy by the Milanese "League
to promote Woman's Interests."  The greatest
care is being taken in the collection of signa-
tures, as in a former session, the petition, which
was to the Upper and Lower House, was re-
jected on the ground that by some misunder-
standing all the signatures were not autographs,
although their good faith was guaranteed by
both Houses.  There will be no fear of a similar
mistake this year;--
To the Italian Parliament.
 HONORABLE GENTLEMEN!--Women citizens
not having been included hitherto in the right
of voting, even when that vote is called univer-
sal, appears to us no argument why the justice
and folly of such exclusions should be con-
tinued.
	Women have the same relations towards the
State as other citizens.  They are subject to
the same civil and penal laws; they pay the
same taxes.  The measures which provide for,
affect, or punish men, provide for, affect, and
punish us also.
	The influence of good or bad laws, the pros-
perity of peace and the disasters of war, ed-
ucational institutions and social customs are
equally felt by us; while more disastrous for
us are the effects of bad laws, such as those
made in our absence cannot fail to be, express-
ing only present interests, and sacrificing or
imperfectly understanding absent interests.
	That if women might be resigned to their
exclusion so long as the reform of the franchise
was based on circumstances accessory to citizen-
ship, they cannot and ought not to be resigned
when this right is based upon natural capacity
and is called university.
	It is impossible not to acknowledge that the
agricultural laborers, from lack of communica-
tion with other classes, isolation from cultivated
and civilized centres, and the nature of their
labor, live in conditions opposed to intelligence
and comprehension of national interests.  They
cannot be compared to the mass of women, who
are spread through every social scale, and con-
tain multitudes devoted to teaching, to industry,
to commence, to professions which require gen-
eral or special culture, and who live in active
centres of public life and continued social fric-
tion.  How can the exercise of the vote be
accorded to the less capable and refused to the
more intelligent?
	In all arguments based on the difference of
our duties, we cannot accept our exclusion as
the legitmate conclusion, but rather an increased
urgency for claiming the vote.  If the conserva-
tion and guardianship of the race be ours, if
our mission demands of loftier range of ideas--
then neither war, assassination, libertinism,
drunkenness, violence or arbitrary force of
any kind can find any class more interested in
their repression, because it has everything to
lose in barbarism and all to gain in civilization
our mission to guard and sustain the human
race renders everything, which degrades and
injures that race most abhorent to us.


48	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


The example of various American States in
which women exercise the political vote with
so much advantage to the public; of England
where they are electors in the municipalities,
and are eligible to the School Boards, and
where they are on the eve of gaining the politi-
cal vote, guarantee, Italy from taking that
famous leap in the dark which has become the
consecrated formula of stubborn conservatism.
	While we claim the right of voting with the
conviction that we claim a right inborn with
human individual, and reject opposition based
on historical precedents as antagonistic to our
modern civilization, we declare it is unjust to
impose laws, to apply penalties, to assign to us
responsibility or want of responsibility, capacity
or incapacity, admission or exclusion in our
absence, without a question, without a hearing,
without permission to explain our own needs,
make our own demands, defend our own inter-
ests, not even permitting us to confide our
cause to persons in whom we have confidence—
we declare this to be a violent and despotic
oppression of natural rights, and irreconcilable
with the nature of representative governments.
	We record our conviction that the right to
vote is a human right, and that law is a social
compact, and that no one is held to the condi-
tions of a contract to which he has not been a
contracting party, or to submit to a state of
things that he has not desired.
	You do not consider yourselves sufficiently
represented by your equals, although your in-
terests compared with ours are paramount in
every social degree; still less can we be repres-
ented by you, we, who are sacrificed by all
your laws and rules.
	We wish for the vote because, as a part of
humanity, we belong to its life and history, and
we have a right that our ideas, our interests,
our necessities, our views, should have an in-
fluence directly from our conscience and re-
sponsibilities, and not indirect through your
passions and weakness; we wish for it that our
daughters may be happier than we, and may
rejoice with their husbands and brothers in the
advantages of having a country; we wish it be-
cause it is our duty to wish for it, and not to
cease from the claim till reason and justice
have found the way to your conscience.
	We, Italian women, submit these reasons to
you, Italian legislators, who are our fellow-
citizens, fathers, brothers, husbands, friends and
sons, nourished, educated, and loved by us, and
children of that generation which has fought
for liberty.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	MRS. Ednah D. Cheney at the Concord
School of Philosophy read a paper on "The
Relation of Science to Poetry."  Mrs. Julia
Ward Howe also read a paper,on the Philosohpy
and Philosopher of Europe and America."
	MRS AMELIA BLOOMER (after whom the
Bloomer costume was named),of Council Bluffs,
Iowa,was invited by the Territorial Legislature
of Nebraska, 1855, to address them on the sub-
ject of Woman Suffrage.  As the result of her
address, a bill in favor of it passed the House
and came to its third reading in the Council
and was only lost because some members talked
to kill time, to prevent the passage of a bill for
removing the Capitol.

 THE dream of the greediest avarice has been
outdone, and the Morning Post, the organ of
the aristocracy, and the favorite paper, accord-
ing to all the society novelists, of the Duchess
and the Marchioness,may be bought in the bye-
ways for a penny, like any such lesser lights of
journalism as the Telegraph or the News.  Sir
Algernon Borthwick has changed neither the
shape nor the appearance of his paper.  It is
still printed exactly as it was, retains its details.


of the movements of the Upper ten thousands,
and tries to look superior to the democracy in
journalims. But its success in this respect is
less amazing than the fact that, after all, it is
only going back like the English Constitution
to the beginnings of its history for its latest de-
velopment. The Post is like the Seventh Clause
of the Land Bill. It has returned to the or-
iginal intention of its founders. "In the
hundred and ninth year of its existence," it
says in its explanatory article, "the Morning
Post reverts to the price at which it was orig-
inally published on the 2nd of November, 1772.
The pressure of stamp duties, paper duties, and
advertisement duties compelled a rise in the
price of journals, so that at the close of the
last century the cost of the Morning Post was
sixpence, and in the early years of this century
it rose to sevenpence. The successive reduc-
tions of taxation brought about corresponding
changes to fivepence, fourpence, and lastly
threepence. It has become evident that by
returning to the original price we can gain a
vast extension of political influence and yet
continue to provide our readers with a paper
in every way as excellent as that, which for up-
wards of a century has maintained its position."
Then, with a declaration that the newspaper
with its million of metal types, its latest news,
and its rapid comments, is one of the greatest
achievements of the human mind, the Post con-
cludes that he would be bold who would define
the horizon which "the Future opens to the
newspaper." It is true. We never though 
to see the Post at a penny. After that, all is
possible. Still there is room for everything.
The Post of our boyhood is dead. Long live
the Post.


LITTLE LETTER.
				----
			      LOGAN, August 12th, 1881,
EMMELINE B. WELLS:
	DEAR EDITOR: I belong to the 5th, Ward
Primary Association of Logan and I love to go
for we have such good meetings, and we have
our President Priscilla Jacobs and her Counselors
Mary Kent and Mary Adams, they are so good
and kind to us, they come every Saturday and
some of our fathers and mothers.  They give us
many good instructions and sing us good songs,
we learn many good things.  I am only a little
boy 8 years and 2 months old to-day but I am a
Mormon boy and never drink tea nor coffee.
Will you please put this in the paper and I will
try and do better next time.
						THOMAS WILLIAM PIKE.
	This little letter was accompanied by a pretty
bunch of grasses and rose leves tastefully tied
together.  We acknowlege the gift with grateful
appreciation and hope there are many little child-
ren in the Primary Associations who feel as in-
terested as this little fellow.  If he continues to
cultivate his facilities as he is now doing, he will
be a great and good man.


FOR SALE
Home- Made SILK,

	CUTLER'S COMMISSION STORE.
DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
		DENTIST.
			SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
			to Filling and Preserving the
			Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
			Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
			from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
			Most Approved Manner. PRICES
			to Suit the Times and First Class
			Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE -- MAIN ST OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE
		P. O. BOX, 541

	A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building also HOME MADE

	Blankets,		Brown Yarns,		Cotton Batting,
	Flannels,		White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
	Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
	Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
	Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.
PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST.
		MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desiree the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet.  Also, a nice selection in 
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velbet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes.  Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches.  Good Work Guaranteed!
	DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP.
		PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON
	OFFICE and RESIDENCE over Contributor Office, north of
Z. C. M. I.
	Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children as special-
ities.
		THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and 
			BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS.
	Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obe found in the West             Your Orders are Solicited.
				GEO. DUNFORD.
	F. AUERBACH & BRO. 
				HAVE
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS. 124 & 126
				CALL AND EXAMINE
		Spring and Summer Goods.
	DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER,
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPs. Pumps Repaired on short notice.  Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.
			Z. C. M. I.
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
		HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
			GLASS & QUEESWARE,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

AT TEASDEL'S
		SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
					   S.P. TEASDEL.
_______________________________________________________

					H. DINWOODEY,
		WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
	FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WI[-]E MATRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
						AND
				BABY CARRIAGES,
75,77, & 79, First South Street,
		SALT LAKE CITY.
	ROMANIA B. PRATT,
Physician and Surgeon.
	OFFICE-- UP Stairs, in Old Constitution Building.
RESIDENCE--Six Blocks East of Post Office, South side
of street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, Diseases of
Women, and DISEASES of the EYE and EAR.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 10.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1, 1881.	NO. 7


TO MY FRIEND.

Into my bosom dropped a star,
From out the Heaven's vast firmament,
And there so pure and bright it lay,
I scarce believed to me 'twas sent.
I clasped it close with wild delight,
I bathed its crimson rays with dew,
I wondered much, for love was blind,
But now I know, dear friend, 'twas you.

Into my bosom breathed a song,
From spheres celestial, pure and clear,
Its harmonies my soul entranced,
And life stood still its strains to hear.
My saddened heart it filled with joy,
Breathed o'er my spirit strength anew,
I wondered much, for love was dumb,
But now I know, sweet friend, 'twas you.

Into my bosom crept a flower,
Entwined around my heart to kiss,
Its glorious beauty charmed my eyes,
Its fragrance steeped each sense in bliss.
Perfumes of Araby the blest,
Exhaled from out its petals blue,
I wondered much, till love confessed,
That star, and song, and flower were you.
	ANONYMOUS.
SALT LAKE CITY, February 10, 1881


[Column 1]

A FEW INCIDENTS.

	Desiring to inspire faith in the minds of our
young people, I have decided to publish some
items from manuscript which I have in my
possession, that I think will be interesting to
the readers of the EXPONENT. It will also
give to the young some idea what their mothers
and the veteran women of this Church have
endured for the principles of this faith, or for
the Gospel's sake. These items are from the
writings of a lady now deceased, Louisa B.
Pratt of Beaver.
	"I have had deep experience in this kingdom:
having spent over 40 years in active service. I
was raised under the influence of the Episcopal
Church; continued steadfast in that faith until
I heard the fulness of the Everlasting Gospel,
revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith in
this our day. And verily it was by the power
and goodness of God that it was made known
to me, for I would not believe the testimony of
the Elder who taught me, although I knew him
to be a man of candor and truth. I had known
the Scriptures from my childhood, and I knew
his teachings were in strict accordance with the
apostolic doctrines, yet I would not acknow-
ledge it to him. At length I resolved to know
independent of any human testimony. So with
all the energy with which my soul was endowed,
I cried unto the Lord, and suddenly the light
burst upon my heart like the sun breaking forth
from behind a dark cloud when the sky is
clothed in blackness; the Bible was in my hand
and had it been printed in golden capitals and
been of doubtful meaning it would not have
looked half so beautiful; joy unutterable, per-
meated my whole existence. One week passed
away, I was conscious of realizing more true
joy in that short time than in all the years of
my life, which numbered 35.
	We were living on the banks of Lake Erie,
enjoying all the comforts and many of the lux-
uries of life. Jackson County, Missouri was
then the centre of attraction in my mind. My
husband was an unbeliever. He invited a Bap-
tist preacher to visit us, hoping by powerful
arguments he would convince me of my error,

[Column 2]

as he listened to our discussion he saw the fal-
lacy and lameness of his reasoning, and dis-
cerned that the Bible was a sealed book to the
noted preacher. He went to Kirtland on pur-
pose to learn what he could of the origin of the
work which was creating such excitement
through the country. While there became
convinced of its truth and was baptised. He
returned, and testified to his astonished breth-
ren of the Presbyterian order of the great
things he had seen and heard, but they would
not believe. In process of time we found our-
selves﻿ identified with the Saints in Nauvoo; en-
listed hearts and hands to build the Temple. In
1843 Mr. Pratt was called on a mission to the
Pacific Isles. Our property was invested in
land, in the State of Indiana; there was no
ready means to be left for my support, with
four young children, all daughters. I felt that
I must nerve my heart to contend "against the
world, the flesh and the devil." The Saints
were poor, I must "paddle my own canoe." I
formed my plans and commenced in earnest;
great was my trust in God. I had never
learned to distrust men who had the reputation
of being just; but I found that even such ones
sometimes failed, while others were better than
their promises.
	I adopted a rule which I have ever since
found to be invaluable. I determined that my
word should be my bond, and though I promised
to my loss, I made that promise good. This
more than all else of my experience in battling
the storms of life alone, I wish published, for
the encouragement of numbers of my sisters
who like me are left to manage their own busi-
ness and provide for their families. I had
acquired a tolerable education in the govern-
ment schools in Lower Canada; was capable of
teaaching all the common branches, besides I
was a good seamstress. I was left in a small
log house, I immediately set about building a
framed house, buying the lumber on credit.
By the time the building was completed I had
won the reputation of being a punctual business
woman. I was proud of my house, lived in it
three winters, had to make a sacrifice of it when
we left Nauvoo; never realising but $15,00 in
exchange for the house and two City Lots.
Soon after my companion left home, serious
accidents happened to my children, one was
nearly crushed to death by the fall of a seat
loaded with people. The young children who
were with her ran through the crowd asking for
Elders to come and administer to the poor girl:
they did so, and she was brought home to me as
from the dead. I never thought of a Doctor,
but there was earnest pleading with Him who
has power to heal; and before the dawn of the
coming morn she was cheerful and able to re-
late the whole affair; and soon she was wholly
restored, and my heart comforted. The next
that happened the small pox was brought to
the place by the return of my brother-in-law
from Mass. coming up the Miss., on a Steamer.
Hearing of his return, I hurried with my four
children to the house to see him. My two
eldest had been vaccinated the other two had
not. I myself had been, likewise my sister, 17
years before. I stood by his bedside, gazing
upon him with wonder; the children standing
by. He told me to be on my guard, he feared
what it might be; and I withdrew. The neigh-
bors were alarmed when they found I had
been exposed, they would not venture them-
selves into my house.
	The fears of my friends excited faith in me

[Column 3]

to resist the power of the destroyer. I reasoned
with them, that they should help me to have
faith in the power of God, that He would not
suffer such an affliction to come on me when
my husband had been called on a foreign mis-
sion to preach the Gospel of Christ, and left
me to bear the burdens of life alone. My faith
increased as I uttered the words, and I declared
in the name of the Lord that the small pox
should not come under my roof that I would
claim the right to resist it by the power of
God! one child I watched closely, praying
continually that I might not have to recall my
words. At the close of the 9th day I saw symp-
toms of fever, a tremor in the neck. I laid
the girl in the upper room, and struggled with
my determination. At length I discovered on
the knee and fingers of the child nine very
small pimples; still I did not waver or doubt.
Seeing a brother on the street whom I knew
would not be afraid, I took the child to him
to be examined, he having been acquainted
with the disease pronounced it an attack, in
mild form, that it would not enlarge, nor do
her harm, but would prevent in all future her
taking the disease. The same proved true to
the letter as she was afterwards exposed in Cali-
fornia when the tyrant was making fearful
ravages. Then did I render thanks that my
daughter was proof against the direst of all ail-
ments.


EXPRESSION OF THANKS.

	DEAR EDITOR: Every number I receive of
your valuable paper seems to me more and
more interesting and instructive. The noble
ladies who write for the paper I for one feel
to thank for their kindness in making it so
truly valuable in the cause of truth and right-
eousness, and I sincerely wish it was patroniz-
ed by all who love the truth. I also thank
that lady who gave us such a graphic descrip-
tion of what our little children are doing in
the Primary Association. It was very pleas-
ing to read it, I assure you. I also have wished
many times to thank, through the EXPONENT,
those noble ladies of the Woman's Suffrage Asso-
ciation for their good and generous feelings to-
ward the women of Utah. I know we all
really appreciate their acts of kindness towards
us, and I feel my sentiments are those of many
others of our people.
	I, too, often thought with Sister Helen Mar
Whitney, that if the Book of Mormon was a 
little larger in print many would read it who
do not to-day. This has been a source of re-
gret to myself many times as my sight is fail-
ing me, and I always delight to read that book,
and think it a great blessing to live in such an
age, when truth has sprung out of the ground,
and righteousness has looked down from hea-
ven, for the good of a fallen world. Then let
us as sister struggle on in the cause of truth,
and never become weary in well doing, for in
due time we shall reap, if we faint not.
	Hoping for the future success of the EX-
PONENT, I remain yours in the cause of truth.
				MARY ELLEN MCKAY.


SOJOURNER TRUTH, who is now one hundred
and six years old, on receiving recently a pre-
sent of a silk dress from England, expressed a
hope that she might continue a sojourner here
below long enough to wear it out.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SCENES IN NAUVOO.
				-----
	   BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
				-----
	A great change had been wrought during
the time that the Twelve had been absent from
Nauvoo--My father writing from there in July
1841 described the appearance of the city at
that time--He says, "You know there were
not more than thirty buildings in the city when
we left about two years ago; but at this time
there are about 1200, and hundreds of others
in progress, which will be finished soon.  On
Friday last seventy Saint came to Nauvoo, led
by Lorenzo Barnes, from Chester County, Penn-
sylvania, in wagons, living by the way. On
the next day a company came in wagons, from
Canada, all in good spirits, and in two or three
days after, they all obtained places to live in.
They are coming in from all parts of the vast
continent daily and hourly, and the work is
spreading in all of this land and calls for preach-
ing in all parts.  You will recollect when
we built our houses in the woods there was not
a house within a half a mile of us, now the
place, wild as it was at that time, as converted
into a thickly populated village."
	The following account which was printed in
a St. Louis paper will show the thriving con-
dition of the city in 1842. "The population of
Nauvoo is between 8000 and 9000, and of course
the largest town in the State of Illinois. How
long the Latter-day Saints will hold together
and exhibit their present aspect it is not for us
to say.  At this moment they present the ap-
pearance of an enterprising, industrious, sober
and thrifty population such  a population  in-
deed, as in the respects just mentioned, have no
rivals east, and we rather guess not even west
of the Mississippi."  Before the close of 1842
the population numbered about 15,000 and
scarcely three years had elapsed since the Saints
came there so nearly destitute of every worldly
thing, and by their industry in spite of sickness
and the many obstacles which they had to con-
tend with, they had accomplished more than
any  other community had done in the same
amount of time, but notwithstanding all these
signs of industry, temperance and virtue the
same spirit of jelously and persecution which
had been manifested towards them in Ohio, and
Missouri was imbibed by a portion of the people
of Illinois, and many false reports were cir-
culated by them to injure the Saints, but often
they had the opposite effect and enlisted the
sympathies of many honorable people, and occa-
sionally persons who visited our city would be
so agreeably surprised that they would publish
accounts which contradicted the false reports.
The following one which was written by a
Methodist Minister who visited Nauvoo in the
Spring of 1843 gives such a fair description of
our city and people as they were, that I would
like to see it reprinted for the benefit of those
who listen to all the rumors that are started
about the "Mormons" and believe that they
have sunk so much lower in the mire of cor-
ruption, since coming out to Utah--He says--
"At length the city burst upon my sight and
how sadly was I disappointed; instead of seeing
a few miserable log cabins and mud houses
which I expected to find, I was surprised to see
one of the most romantic places that I had
visited in the west.  The buildings, though
many of them were small and of wood, yet bore
the marks of neatness, which I have not seen
equalled in this country.  The far spread plain
at the bottom of the hill was dotted over with
the habitations, of men with such majestic pro-
fusion, that I was almost willing to believe my-
self mistaken; and instead of being in Nauvoo, of
Illinois, among Mormon that I was in Italy at
the city of Leghorn (which the location of
Nauvoo resembles very much) and among ec-
centric Italians, I gazed for some time with
fond admiration upon the plains below.  Here
and there arose a tall majestic brick house,
speaking loudly of the genius, and untiring
labors of the inhabitants, who have snatched
the place from the clutches of obscurity, and
wrested it from the bonds of disease, and in two
or three short years rescued it from a dreary
waste to transform it into one of the first cities
of the west.  The hill upon which I stood was
covered over with the dwellings of men, and
amid them was seen to rise the hewn stone and
already accomplished work of the temple, which
is now raised 15 or 20 ft. above the level of the
ground.  The few trees that were permitted to
stand were now in full foliage, and were scat-
tered with a sort of fantastic irregularity over
the slope of the hill."  This grove that he
mentioned was where the Saints met upon the
Sabbath day to worship or to hold their public
meetings.  He continues--"I passed on into
the more active parts of the city, looking into
every street and lane to observe all that was
passing.  I found all the people engaged in
some useful and healthy employment.  The
place was alive with business, much more so
than any place I have visited since the hard
times commenced.  I sought in vain for any-
thing that bore the mark of immorality; but
was both astonished and highly pleased at my
ill success.  I could see no loungers about the
streets, nor any drunkards, about the taverns.
I did not meet with those distorted features of
ruffians, or with the ill-bred or impudent, I
heard not an oath in the place, I saw not a
gloomy countenance; all were peaceful, polite,
and industrious.  I conversed with many lead-
ing men, and found them social and well-in-
formed, hospitable and generous.  I saw noth-
ing but order and I regulation in the society.
Where then, I exclaimed, is all this startling
proof of the utter profligacy of Nauvoo?  Where
in the name of God, is the immorality charged
upon the citizens of it; and what dreadful out-
breaking crimes have given men the license
to depreciate this place as much as they do?
Where is the gang of marauders, horse theives
and ruffians, the drunkards and vicious men of
Nauvoo?  Where are the horrid forms of human
beings distorted with hellish rage and maddened
ire?  Where are the dark and diabolical sup-
erstitions?  Where are those specimens of cre-
dulity and ignorance?  Where are those damn-
ing doctrines of demons?  Where in fine is
this slough, this sink of iniquity of which I
have heard so much?  Surely not in Nauvoo!
They must have got the wrong place, or wil-
fully lied about it.  I could but blush with
disappointed shame for my friends who had so
misinformed me, and very soon made up my
mind, like the Queen of Sheba, not to believe
any reports of enemies but to always like her,
go and see for myself."  Here is the testimony
of another gentile who saw it at that time. In
a letter he says, "Look and see what they have
done at Nauvoo, during the comparative
short time they have been there.  If they are
enabled to proceed as they have commenced
their town ere long will become a mighty city.
I do not believe there is another people in ex-
istence who could have made such improvement
in the same length of time under the same cir-
cumstances."
	I wish there were more honorable men, who
when they come among us could see one side
as well as the other, and had sufficient moral
courage when they go away to publish the truth
about the "Mormons!" As far as ourselves are
concerned it matters very little what our en-
emies think or say of us for we expect nothing
better of them and we know that in the end
they will be the sufferers.  I think that we
have shown to the world that we could live and
thrive upon a desert land which they had never
dreamed of inhabiting as well as subdue and
dwell in peace with the savage without any of
their assistance; but we know there are many
honest souls who have not yet heard this Gospel
preached and if the servants of God who have
enjoyed such great blessings and manifestations
of His power should refuse to obey his man-
dates to go forth and warn the inhabitants of
the earth of the judgments which are right at
their doors, that they may repent &c., and
gather up to these mountains where He has
promised to protect his people, they would be
under condemnation and could not escape the
wrath of the Almighty.  The Latter-day Saints
when they receive this Gospel understandingly
are prepared for trials and to make sacrifices
which thousands of them have done in leaving
their homes and native lands, their friends and
kindred ties that had to be broken, and many
have sacrifized worldly riches and what was
dearer than all their good name.  Oh how little
the outside world know or can understand the
motive that prompts the Latter-day Saints to
gather from the different countries and nations
to this far off land, among a people whom all
manner of evil is spoken of, but they knew the
voice of the true shepherd who has said "Ye
shall be hated of all men for my name's sake:
but he that endureth to the end shall be saved;
He has also said to his servants "Behold I send
you forth as sheep in the midst of wolves: be
ye therefore wise as serpents and harmless as
doves.  But beware of men: for they will de-
liver you up to the counsels and they will scourge
you in their synagogues and ye shall be brought
before the governers and kings for my sake for
a testimony against them and the Gentiles.
Fear not them which kill the body, but rather
fear him who is able to destroy both soul and
body."  The world may prate about the ignor-
ant Mormons but the lowliest among us and
even our little children understand the Scrip-
tures and plan of salvation better than they with
all their worldly wisdom.
			To be continued.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

	Shall we not rejoice even in affliction? Do
we not see the mighty hand of God stretched
forth every day in our behalf? See the glorious
fields of grain, the sweet-smelling hay, the gar-
dens, the fruits; the flowers, all proclaim ye are
God's people! I have gathered, you from the
four quarters of the earth, and I will bless you!
I will pour forth into your laps the rich treas-
ures of the earth for ye are mine! Oh, be faith-
ful ye handmaidens of the God of heaven for
ye are indeed the blest wives and daughters of
the noble sons of Ephraim, who are ever seeking
for the welfare of Zion! let us help bear the
banners of mercy truth and justice in all meek-
ness, in all sincerity, let us do and dare in our
sphere of action: strive to bring forth a noble
race of sons and daughters, who will acknow-
ledge the hand of God, who will be more dili-
gent than we are in serving the Lord our God,
for they are heirs of truth, and will be lovers
of every good. They will go on conquering
and to conquer every influence that is not of
God, if we will live near unto Him who ruleth
the Universe. Then let us rejoice for we have
a glorious future before us, upward and ouward
be our motto! side by side with our husbands,
be our watchword! That we may receive the
blessed assureance that will be given to all who
strive to serve God and keep His command-
ments—"Well done good and faithful servants
enter thou into the glory of thy Lord."
	B. M.


THE American Woman Suffrage Association
will hold its next annual meeting in Louisville
Kentucky, Oct. 25 and 26. This will be very
soon after the Woman's Congress in Buffalo.
The Western and Eastern ladies who go to the
Congress in Buffalo will be able to attend the
Convention in Louisville on their return with-
out extra expense.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


"WAITING FOR MOTHER.

The old man sits in his easy chair
	Slumbering the moments away,
Dreaming a dream that is all his own,
	On this gladsome, peaceful day.
His children have gathered from far and near,
	His children's children beside—
And merry voices are echoing through
	The "Homestead's" halls so wide.

But far away, in the years long flown,
	Grandfather lives again:
And his heart forgets that it ever knew
	A shadow of grief or pain, 
For he sees his wife as he saw her then—
	A matron comely and fair,
With her children gathered around his board
	And never a vacant chair.

Oh! happy this dream of the "Anld Lang Syne,"
	Of the years long slipped away!
And the old man's lips have gathered a smile
	And his heart grows young and gay.
But a kiss falls gently upon his brow,
	From his daughter's lips so true:
"Dinner is ready; and, father, dear,
	We are only waiting for you."

The old man wakes at his daughter's call,
	And looks at the table near—
"There's one of us missing, my child," he says,
	"We will wait till mother is here."
There are tears in the eyes of his children, then,
	As they gaze on an empty chair:
For many a lonely year has passed
	Since "mother" sat with them there.

But the old man pleads still wilfully;
	"We must wait for mother, you know!"
And they let him rest in his old arm-chair
	Till the sun at last sinks low.
Then, leaving a smile for the children here,
	He turns from the earth away,
And has gone to "mother," beyond the skies,
	With the close of the quiet day.

	MARY D. BRIND.
Selected,


[Column 1]

PEN SKETCH OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS
WOMAN.

ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.

CONTINUED.
	Sister Eliza although intimately associated in
the family relation with Pres. Brigham Young
and having resided under the same roof more
than a quarter of a century, and assisted in
various ways to promote his domestic happiness
did not as many would have done, sit down and
spend her time in 'mourning' his death. She
was too much interested in the work in which
he had passed his lifetime; and seemed to renew
her diligence, if that were possible, in promoting
the growth of all the organizations of women
which existed in the Church.
	During that fall Sister Eliza R. S. S. visited
many of the settlements in Salt Lake and other
counties attended meetings and encouraged the
sisters to increase their efforts to do good, and 
help roll on the Latter-day work.
	On the 12th of Dec. a meeting was held to
discuss the best method to obtain signatures to
a petition for a 16th amendment to Congress,
the women of Utah of which she was the leading
spirit, haveing been solicited to aid the National
Woman's Suffrage Association in petitioning.
Sister Eliza suggested a special meeting to be
held Dec. 22nd. At this special meeting an
organization was effected of the Relief Society
of this Stake. Sister Eliza moving in the mat-
ter as President elect of women's organizations,
and making the nominations according to a
precedent established by Brigham Young at a
meeting held in Ogden City July 19, a short
time previous to his decease. This was a new
movement, but in strict harmony with the order
of the organizations and by the permission of the
presiding authorities of the priesthood, and
nothing could be more systematic or better cal-

[Column 2]

culated to further the growth of these institu-
tions than this method of associating together
and reporting in a conference. After this part of
the programme had been carried out, then the
arrangement was made to canvass the Territory
for signatures to the 16th amendment petition
to Congress. In this labor Sister Eliza assisted
not only by advice but actual work in writing
out petitions, receiving, counting names and
preparing the rolls to be forwarded to Washing-
ton. It was at the Convention held early in
January 1878, just following, that the ladies of
the N. W. S. A., spoke so emphatically in de-
fense of Mormon women, and by this work of
petitioning, these same ladies were enabled to
comprehend what power for good was in the
hands of Mormon women.
	It was about this time that the Deseret Silk
Association was making some rapid strides and
Sister Eliza was one of the most earnest workers
in the silk enterprise.
	Speaking of definite public work of organiz-
ing done by Sister E. R. S. Smith, much might
be said and written; however we can only men-
tion in a general way a part of what she has
really been instrumental in doing. Early in the
year 1878 having previously given the store in-
to other hands she commenced with renewed
energy traveling and holding meetings among
the different Stakes of Zion, and assisted in
perfecting the Relief Society organizations after
the same order as in Salt Lake Stake. May 2d
at a Relief Society Conference in Ogden, Apos-
tle Erastus Snow being present also D, H.
Peery and other local authorities of that Stake
which had only been partially effected, was
completed by electing a full board of officers.
	From Ogden Sister Eliza proceeded north
through Box Elder Co., and Malad Valley,
visiting the various towns and settlements or-
ganizing etc., and returning by way of Weber
Co. held two or three meetings in that Stake; in
all holding over thirty meetings in fifteen days.
In July of the same year she traveled through
Utah and Wasatch and in August through
Sanpete, Cache, Morgan and Summit Stakes;
performing as much missionary labor as it was
possible for any one to do; for everywhere she
spoke earnestly and prayed fervently and
words of counsel and instruction such as seemed
suited to the temporal and spiritual condition
of the sisters young and old, flowed from her
lips. Sister Eliza traveled hundreds of miles
during that summer in all kinds of weather, not
in an easy carriage waited upon by servants, but
as opportunity afforded in all sorts of convey-
ances furnished by the people among whom
her lot was cast, and it is scarcely possible to
say how many times she spoke in public. It
was in some respects an eventful year for Sister
Eliza and for Zion, for during that summer
while attending a meeting at Farmington the
idea of an organization for children, such as
now exists was suggested to her mind by some
remards make by Mrs. Aurelia Spencer Rogers.
This hint has since developed into something
tangible known as the Primary Associations,
due to the active, earnest, efficient and one
might almost say indefatigable labors of this
remarkable woman and her co-workers in these
enterprises for the good of Zion. These Asso-
ciations are in our opinion an important factor
in the kingdom of God upon the earth, for they
lie at the very foundation of the Hope of
Israel.
	The first organization was formed on the 11th,
of August 1878 in Farmington and the first
meeting held on the 25th inst. but as it was
not very successful the Association date their
organizations from Sept. 7, 1878. About the
same time some Associations were organized in
Salt Lake City the 11th Ward taking the
lead.
	To be continued.


THE PRIMARIES.

	EDITOR EXPONENT: Permit me through
your columns to say a few words that have been
suggested by visting the Primary Association.
I love to go there, I sometimes think that the
mothers do not appreciate the privileges their
children enjoy; if they did I think they could
spare an hour once in a while to encourage
them by their presence. I often think that I
would like to have our friends in the States
visit these little meetings, I think they would be
forced to take back what has been said in re-
gard to our children; the offspring of plural
marriage being the poor imbeciles, etc., which
they have been represented.
 At the last meeting I attended the President
called upon a little girl to preside, and I can
truly say that is surpassed any thing I had
ever seen in a child. She went through with
the programme with dignity; and then in a 
very pleasant manner said to the visiting sisters
"this fills our programme and we would like
you to talk to us," addressing herself to one who
was present. That programme was indeed
beautiful. Little ones lisping the Lord's prayer
and reading from the Old and New Testament
essays and dialogues on prayer and many other
good things that I cannot remember, and last
but not least the singing from their little Hymn
Books, it seemed like angels voices singing;
praises to our Father.
 John Quincy Adams, President of the United
States once said, when he was an old man he
loved to say the prayer that he learned at his
mother's knee,and do not think that these little
boys and girls will not remember their little meet
ings and the good things they have learned there,
and their President and her counselors that are
laboring hard to prepare them for the great
and glorious future that awaits them if faith-
ful.
 And Sister E. R. Snow Smith, they under-
stand that she was the first organizer and when
told that she will visit them their countenances
beam with joy and happiness, and everywhere
one goes it is the same; how beautiful is such
love and truly she is blessed among women; for,
she has not only the love and good will of every
Latter-day Saint but she has the prayers of the
little children ascending to our Father in her
behalf and Jesus has said "of such is the king-
dom of heaven." I rejoice in Woman's work
and that the restitution has commenced, and
that if we are faithful and seek unto our Father
for his divine aid and assistance, we shall gain
step by step, what we have lost and stand by
the side of our brother man, a wise counselor
and friend in helping to spread light and truth,
and in the redemption of the human race; and
we will take care of the babies too, but we will
pray to our Father for wisdom and ability to
assist in his work, but I must close, or I shall
say something on the Woman question, and it
is thought, by some, that that, had better be
laid on the shelf but it will not be fore our Father
has decreed it otherwise.		R. A. W.


MRS. Dominis, sister of King Kalakua of
the Sandwich Islands is acting as Regent while
the king is away.  Her brother has chosen her
as his successor to the throne.  Mrs. Margaret
Mitcheel and other "Mormon" ladies have had
the pleasure of meeting Mrs. Dominis while on
the Sandwich Islands and speak of her as a
most etimable lady, very kind in her manner
as well as very agreeable and attractive.
 A NEW book "Harvest Gleanings," by Miss
Anna Gardiner, is now in the hands of the
publishers, The introduction is by Rev. Phebe
A. Hanaford, and the book is dedicated to
Mrs. Charlotte A. Joy. These ladies are all
engaged in reform work.  We have no doubt
the book will prove a useful and instructive
one and a help to the advocates of Woman's
Suffrage and other kindred subjects.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT
EMMELINE B. WELLS, -- Editor
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00, one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50. Per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street.  Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY  SEPTEMBER 1, 1881.


WAITING,
	PRESIDENT GARFIELD, so long a severe suf-
ferer, and seemingly near his appointed time for
release from suffering, still lingers on the border
of the shaowy land. The physicians at the
present express considerable hope, and Mrs. Gar-
field, a firm faith in his recovery, a con-
viction that in his case a "a miracle will
be wrought." The sympathies of
the nation are with her in this trying
hour, and it must be a source of satisfaction in
the midst of such a fiery ordeal to know that all
the people are interested and thousands sending
up petitions to Him who rules and overrules and
holds the destiny of mations in His hands, that
He will sare the life of this great man, the
Chief Executive of the American Republic. Mrs.
Garfield's courage and fortitude in the midst of
her earnest solicitude for the welfare of her hus-
band is another proof of woman's strength of
endurance under more than ordinary affliction.
A few more days at least will determine the
important question, whether President Garfield
has vitality sufficient to rally after so great a
struggle with the grim monster death. Mean-
time, the nation is waiting in anxious and pray-
erful suspense, for that the people loved him is
evident on every hand.


LAY UP SOME GRAIN.
	In consideration of the bountiful harvest of
Wheat and other grain which the people in this
valley are blest with, we would suggest that the
sisters recall to mind the request made of them
by President Brigham Young in the fall of 1876,
through the columns of the WOMAN'S EXPO-
NENT, and put in practice the sound advice then
given, To be sure there has been a commenda-
ble effort made to save some grain each year, and
the sisters have not been unmindful of the
counsel they recieved, but in this season of
plenty there might be almost as much done as in
all the preceding years, the prosperity seems to
be so much greater.
  If this golden opportunity goes by, and the
people become careless and indifferent to coun-
sel, because of the great abundance which the
Lord has given, it might be a source of sorrow
in days to come.  Be wise in time and lay by a
portion of the grain with which your labors have
been crowned.  Do not think it of less conse-
quence because of its abundance.  This counsel
was not given for one season, or two, but in or-
der that there might be something reserved
against a time of scarcity, a time of famine,
which has been prophesied of by ancient and 
modern prophets, and will be sure to come soon-
er or later, notwithstanding that at the present
time there seems to be no lack of any good
thing.


The trees are loaded with fruit till they bend
beneath the heavy burden. Vegetation is more
abundant in all its forms than usual. Even the
flowers have been more luxuriant and full, and
fragrance sweeter in proportion. Never was
there a lovelier summer than the present one;
Nature has worn her most royal robes of beauty,
and hill, dale, grove and woodland have rejoiced
the heart, and cheered and gladdened the eye of
man.
	The sisters in their various organizations have,
from time to time, been accumulating in their
bins and storehouses, little by little, and it has
seemed up hill work, and sometimes their cour-
age almost failed. In this plentiful season per-
haps much larger quantities may be gathered
up and preserved. Everything seems to suggest
the approach of great changes in nations and
governments and in view of this, and the fulfil-
ment of the predictions of seers and wise men,
it is well to "lay up something against a rainy
day," a day of less prosperity. Bread is more
precious and desirable than gold, or silver, or
gems. It is the duty of every wife, of every
mother to use her influence to promote agricul-
ture, for unless the earth is tilled and its pro-
ducts cultivated, of what benefit would be all
the gold of Golconda, Utah, Nevada, or all the
precious gems of the whole earth? Then let
us encourage the dignity of the farmer, the gar-
dener and all who follow the profession of out
Father Adam, and maintain the dignity of
Ruth, who was not ashamed to go and glean.
Then, perchance, there may be some land-
owners liberal enough to leave a few sheaves
for the pretty gleaners in the harvest field.


SECRETARIES Y. L. M. I. A.

	The Stake Secretaries of Y. L. M. I. A. are
earnestly requested to send in complete reports
(which will comprise each branch) to the Secre-
tary of the Central Board, as early as the middle
of September, that an accurate report of all the
organizations may be presented to the October
Conference.  This has never yet been done, be-
cause Stake Secretaries have failed to send in
proper reports.  Those who have reported in full
from date of organization need only send from
date of former statistics.  It is an important
matter and should be promptly attended to.
The Secretary of the Central Board is expected
to hand in the full report two or three days pre-
vious to the October Conference.  Bear Lake
Stake, Box Elder and Weber sent very credia-
ble reports last year, but there were not any
from several other localities, so it would have
been very unsatisfactory to attempt a complete
report, and was therefore laid over to the pres-
ent year.  Be sure and state number of branches
in the Stake, as well as number of members, and
all other items worthy of mention,  not forget-
ting the editing of manuscript papers. Direct all
reports to the Secretary, Louie Wells,  Office
WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Salt Lake City.


HOME AFFAIRS.
  THE Primary Associations of Box Elder and
Utah Counties each expevt to have a Children’s
Fair this Fall
  SISTERS M. ISABELLA HORNE and Elmina S.
Taylor have gone North to attend the Sisters
Conference in Bear Lake Stake.
 Mrs. Zina D. Young and Dr. Ellen B. Fergu-
son arrived safely in New York City.  They
traveled in company with Lieut. Willard Young.
  SISTER ELIZA R. SNOW'S book, "Questions
and Answers,' which she has recently been en-
gaged in preparing, is now in the hands of the
printers at the Juvenile Instructor Office. 			

 ANNIE EVA FAY PINGREE, known as “Eva
Fay” among literary and scientific people, is
spending a few days in this city.  She will give
two of her special scientific entertainments in
the Theatre, Friday and Saturday evenings.

 ERRATA.--In the late issue of the EXPONENT
No. 6, in the article, "Scenes in Nauvoo," by
Helen Mar Whitney, a passage occurs in her
mother's letter like this; “Joseph has been
afraid by the spirit"--it should read: “appraised
by the spirit"

 WOMENS' CONFERENCES:  Cache Stake will be
held in Logan, Saturday and Sunday, the 3d and
4th; Weber Stake Will be held in Ogden, Thurs-
day, Friday and Saturday, 8th, 9th and 10th
Tooele Stake in T[--]ele City, Saturday and Sun-
day, 10th and 11th. Box Elder Stake at Brigham
City, 13th and 14th, and Sanpete Stake at Mo-
roni, 16th and 17th. Salt Lake Stake at Salt
Lake City, 23d and 24th inst's.

	THE Children’s Fair for Salt Lake County
will be held in the Social Hall in this City in
September, commencing Septemer 22d, and not
5th, as stated previously.  It will continue
three days, under the auspices of Mrs. Ellen C.
S. Clawson and her counselors and assistants.
Particulars will be given in the Deseret News
and the Exponent of September 15. Prices of
admission will be, adults 10 cents, children 5
cents.
	THE children of the Primary Assoclation of
West Jordan Ward have proven what can be
accomplished in  very short time by five cent
Temple donations. In three months their fund
amounted to six dollars and sixty cents, which
their president, Mrs. Eliza Bird, paid over to
Bishop Hunter on Thursday, August' 25th. It
is encouragin to see the little ones making such
noble efforts towards building up Zion, setting
an example worthy of imitation by many who
are negligent in these matters.
 THE semi-monthly meeting of the ladies in
the Fourteenth Ward, Assembly Rooms, Satur-
day. August 27th, was very interesting. Presi-
dent E. R. S. Smithr presided.  Opened by sing-
ing "We thank Thee, O God for a prophet;”
prayey by Counselor B. W. Smith; singing, "Let
Zion in her beauty rise.” Minutes were read
from the Y. L. M. I. A. of the Third Ward and
from two Primary Associations.  Sister Eliza
made some excellent remarks, which were very
gratifying to the sisters, and suggested those in
the audience should occupy the time. Many
testimonies were borne of the manifestation of
the healing power of God, and a goodly portion of
the Holy Spirit rested upon the congregation.
Towards the close of the meeting Counselors
B. W. Smith and Phebe Woodruff adressed the
meeting. Singing, ',O my Father,” etc.; prayer
by Counselor P. Woodruff. Meeting adjourned
for two weeks.

  A SELECT party of'the friends of Dr. Romania
B. Pratt, met at her residence on the evening of
August 8, ult., to celebrate the anniversary of
her birthday.  A few of her lady friends present-
ed her with a plain gold ring, as a slight token of
their sincere love and esteem, and some other
valuable presents.  A letter from one who was
unavoidably absent was read and its contents
accepted as the sentiment of those assembled.
The evening was passed in happy social con-
verse.
	Mrs. Pratt was the first woman graduate in
the medical profession among this people. At
a time and under circumstances which would
have seemed insurmountable to many, she left
her family of little children in the care of her
mother and went to Philadelphla, entered the
Woman’s Medical College, and graduated from
that institution with the title of M.D., which


she had faithfully earned, by her own energy
and perseverance.  She spent some time at the
Eye and Ear Infirmary, and at the Elmira
Water Cure Establishment, and a few months
at Bellevue Hospital in New York City. Mrs.
Pratt has a genuine love for the practice of med-
icine and surgery, and possesses within herself,
with the blessing of God upon her efforts,
all the possibilities of future success in
the profession she has chosen.  Though
small in stature she has already proven
herself a brave little woman and equal to the
emergency in some very difficult and complicat-
ed cases.  Utah may well be proud of her wo-
men doctors and in a Territory where women
have the ballot it is only proper to suppose that
they will make some proficiency in the higher
branches of education and advancement.
	On Wednesday afternoon, August 12th, in
company with Sisters E. R. S. Smith and E. C.
S. Cl-wson, we had the pleasure of attending a
meeting of the Primary Association in the 21st
Ward, Mrs. Mary Davis presiding.  Mrs. Emma
Tune and quite a number of the children from
the 20th Ward Primary Association were also
present, by invitation.  The weather was not
propitious, but notwithstanding the pouring rain
there was a goodly number assembled together.
Meeting opened by singing, "Children of the
Saints," prayer by Sister E. Gange; singing,
"Don't Kill the Birds."  The President made a
few remarks, and the minutes were read and
accepted.  The programme previously prepared
then began with a dialogue upon "Liquor Sa-
loons," by Eva Barfoot and Julia Webb; song, 
Robert Jones; recitation, Annie Broadbent;
song, Ella Olsen and Alice Sanders; recitation, 
Sarah Ann Rogers; recitation, Margaret Irish; 
flute duet, Joseph Smith and John Owen; reci-
tation, Herbert Folger; recitation, Emma Rog-
ers; duet, Bertha Bailiss and Kate Williams; 
recitation, Annie Irish; recitation, Amelia
Hanson; recitation, Emily Irish; song, Rose
Miller, "Little Acts of Kindness;" recitation, 
Elizabeth Nixon; organ and flute duet, Fewson 
Smith and John Miller. 
   The visitors then made brief remarks and
suggestions.  Sister Eliza referred to the book of 
questions and answers she was engaged in pre-
paring, that it would be a great help to the offi-
cers in imparting instruction.  Miss Emily
Hanson was nominated and sustained to act as
Counselor to the President of the Primary As-
sociation.  Mrs. Davis stated that they had
enrolled the names of 176 children, their average
attendance is about 75.  Meeting closed with
singing "We thank thee, O God, for a Prophet,"
prayer by Master Thomas Mulholland.  Ad-
journed for one week.  This association has only
been organized about three months, but is in a 
most prosperous condition.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 53


[Column 1]

OBITUARY.

	Died: in Salt Lake City, August the 6th,
1881, Sarah Beanland, wife of Joseph Bean, and
daughter of the late John and Elizabeth Bean-
land, of Springwood Place, Bolton, near Bradford,
Yorkshire, England.
	She was born September 1st, 1821, and shortly
after her husband received the Gospel as restored
in these latter days, she was baptized into the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, May
1st, 1843. She emigrated with her husband to
the United States in fulfillment of the divine
command "to gather out from among the na-
tions," in 1855, but could only proceed as far as
Cincinnati, for lack of means. Her determined
purpose in the great Latter-day work, and her
unswerving faith in the protecting care of the
Almighty were well exhibited in the fortitude
displayed by her on the voyage across the sea.

[Column 2]

Situated as emigrants were, in the steerage of
sailing vessels, under such unpropitions circum-
stances she gave birth to a daughter, her exu-
berant spirits never flagging, nor her rejoicings
ceasing in the faith and power of her holy relig-
ion.
	In 1859 she crossed the plains for Utah. On
account of the heavy loading of the ox teams
there were but few miles of the long journey
that she did not walk and carry her infant plod-
ding, day after day, through the burning sands
of the Black Hills, but never a murmur or com-
plaint was heard to pass her lips. When almost
exhausted herself she could be seen encouraging
others, of her wearied companions, in the good-
ness of God, and the bright prospects that awaited
them in glorious Zion. Arriving in Salt Lake
City, she with her husband and family, settled
in the 11th Ward, where she continued to reside
until her death. She filled the position of coun-
selor to Sister McRae, president of the Relief
Society, which position gave her ample oppor-
tunity for the exercise of those gifts so prominent
in her, being unbounded benevolence and solici-
tude for the welfare of others. Whatever the
vicissitudes of life, her uncomplaining nature
always wore the pleasing aspect of a contented
mind. She portrayed a meekness, and patience, 
and a devotedness to her husband and family,
her religion and her God, as becoming a Saint.
She was a faithful wife and mother unto death,
valiant in the testimony of Jesus, her hopes
never flagging nor her faith wavering in the
promises of eternal life. She was the mother of
eleven children and had nineteen grand child-
ren.  After an attack of cholera morbus, which
lasted two days, she succumbed to the power of
the destroyer. She retained her consciousness
up to the hour of her death, and passed away
as peacefully as in a gentle sleep, in the full as-
surance of a resurrection with the just, to reign
with Christ upon the earth.—Des. News.

	Sister Naomi R. daughter of David Lebaron
and Zuba King, and wife of James S. Holman,
deceased, after an illness of three days, departed
this life at 7 o'clock P. M., on Thursday the 11th,
inst at Holden Millard Co. Utah. She was born
in Leroy, Genesee Co. N. Y. Oct. 7th, 1816. Mar-
ried J. S. Holman, March 24th, 1833; joined the
Church in an early day and passed through all
the drivings and persecutions of those days; in
1836 received a patriarchal blessing under the
hands of Joseph Smith Sen., that has been a 
guide to her through her life, which has been a
very eventful one, and, but a few days before
her death she was heard to say that her life
seemed like a dream, when she thought of what
she had endured in her lifetime. She came to
Utah in 1848 with six small children, following
her husband who came the year previous;
	She was the mother of 12 children, her grand-
children numbering 52, and great grandchildren
16. She was a devoted wife and mother, a good
neighbor, and a faithful Latter-day Saint, and
has been for years an energetic member of the
Relief Society and was always willing to respond
to every call that was made of her. She passed
away peacefully surrounded by her relatives and
friends, and was laid away to await the resurec-
tion of the just.
	PAULINE LARSON.


AT REST.

	Another dear one has departed from this to a
bettter state of existence; our aged sister Patsy
Ann De Berry. She was familiarly known in
the 10th Ward, Salt Lake City, where she re-
sided as "Grandma Smith," having been sealed
to the late Samuel H. Smith, brother to the
Prophet Joseph Smith.  She was born February


4th, 1808, in Simpson County, Kentucky, and
was the youngest child of William Lowe and
Margaret Fare.  She was desirous of joining
herself to some church in her youthful days, but
her father desired her not to do so, as he said the
true church was not upon the earth, but that it
would be before long; he might not, he added, live
to see it, but she would, and become identified
with it.  She was baptized into the Church of
Jesus Chirst of Latter-day Saints, March 10th,
1835, by James Emmett.  She never gathered
with the Saints until the fall of 1875, owing to
her husband not having embraced the gospel,
she having lived with him until his death.  She
was well posted in all the affairs of the Church
in the mountains, as well as to a great extent
in the nations of the earth, as she took all the
publications of the Church as they were publish-
ed from time to time.  She lived the life of a 
true Latter-day Saint, full of faith and good
works, keeping very faithfully "the Word of
Wisdom."  I believe she never tasted tea, coffee
or intoxicants of any kind, not even home-made
wine.  She went to her rest at the ripe old age
of 73 years, 6 months and 9 days, on Saturday
afternoon, August 13th, 1881, at 2 p. m., with
the assurance of coming forth in the morning of 
the first resurrection.  "Peace to her ashes."
								T. C. J.


NAUVOO TEMPLE.

	Nauvoo, or "The beautiful," as it was some-
times designated, was formerly called Commerce
and sometimes the "City of Joseph." October
3rd, 1840, at a general conference it was resolved
to build a "House of the Lord" there, to com-
mence it within ten days of that date and to ap-
propriate every tenth day to the building of the
sacred edifice. April 6th, 1841, the first stone
was laid amidst the most straightened circum-
stances of the Saints. In the Spring of 1843, the
Temple was raised fifteen or twenty feet above
the level of the ground. October 6th, 1845, it
was so far finished as to allow a General Confer-
ence of the Church to be held in it. At this
conference the subject of the evacuation of
Nauvoo was canvassed before the Saints and
committees for the sale of houses, farms, lots,
etc., appointed. Sunday, the day before, 5,000
saints met in it for the first time. May 1st,
1846, public services were held in the Temple,
the amount said to have been expended on it by
the Saints exceeds $1,000,000. November 10th,
1848, it was fired by an incendiary, the light of
its fire was visible for 30 miles. May 27th, 1850,
a tornado blew down the north wall and so
shook the building that the Icarians who had
been engaged in rebuilding the edifice for their
use deemed it advisable to pull down the east
and south walls leaving only the west wall.
									A. F.


A PLEASANT SURPRISE.

			MILL CREEK, August 5th, 1881.
	Quite a number of relatives and friends, of
Sister Jeanette Park, assembled at her residence
in Mill Creek Ward, July the 20th to welcome
her home after a three months visit South.  At
about 5 o'clock P.M., the party assembled await-
ing the arrival of the Southern train, which was
to bring Sister Park home.  When it did arrive
her surprise and joy at meeting so many friends,
can better be imagined than expressed.  At 6
o'clock the party sat down to tables sumptuously
loaded, and partook of a repast that was elegant
to the eye as well as delicious to the taste.  There
were about 100 persons present.  Sister Park re-
ceived some very useful and elegant presents
well worthy of mention.  After supper was over
various amusements were engaged in; such as
music, dancing, singing etc., which lasted until
about 12 o'clock at night, when the happy as-
semblage dispersed, feeling they had enjoyed a
very happy time.


Sister Park likes the Southern country very
much, and while there she had a very nice time,
especially working in the St. George Temple for
her dead, and she feels to bear her testimony of
the Holy Spirit that surrounds the Temple, caus-
ing such a peaceful good feeling to prevail in and
around the Temple, and throughout the place.
							O. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
		REPORTS.

	The ladies regular semi-monthly meetings in
the 14th ward in this city are still continued
although of late we have omitted publishing on
account of so many conference minutes from
different parts of the Territory; but as these
meetings are of special consequence we deem it
wise to make notices now and then for the
benefit of those who have not the privilege of
attending.  These meetings may be compared
to the high school department of womens' or-
ganizations.  
	Saturday July 30. Counselor Sarah M. 
Kimball presided in the absence of the Presid-
ent M. Isabella Horne.  After the usual exer-
cises, minutes of the previous meeting were read
and accepted, also minutes of the 12th, and 11th, 
ward Primary Associations.  
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball was the first speaker, she
referred to this as the vacation season, and
thought the physical condition affected the
spiritual somewhat.  Mentioned that Sister
Eliza R. S. S., who had been so long away was
present also Sister Horrocks who had just re-
turned from St. George.  
	Sister E. R. S. Smith, said she had come more
particularly to electioneer, that it was an im-
portant point; she had been very little with her
sisters in the city for eight months, but realized
how beautiful was the love of sisterhood, es-
pecially when the tie is the Gospel.  Our Father
has appointed for our growth and advancement
our meeting together.  "These said the Savior
"will I make my jewels."  These blessings
which it is our privilege to obtain how impor-
tant.  What consequences depend upon our
course!  Everything else in comparison with
eternal riches is as nothing.  In arrang-
ing questions and answers for the children, 
when I find that only two were permitted to
enter the land of Canaan--it seems strange. 
But we find that these two wholly honored God.  
Even Moses took honor to himself.  When 
thirsting and God gave him the rod and told
him what to do, he spoke to the children of
Israel as though it was of his own power the
miracle was performed, the Lord showed that
He would be obeyed.  I feel that every one
present is a follower of the Lord.  It requires
great strength to do the will of God. Whether 
attending to home duties or as minute women
called to perform some extra service, we can
little by little, bring every power into the service
of God.  Cannot God avert the hand of the
destroyer?  We can feel affliction but cannot so
plainly see the wisdom thereof.  The little ones
are being gathered home.  Our Father has
said that in the last days He would lay up
much precious seed for Himself.  Let us my 
sisters try to draw a little nearer to God, hold
a little nearer communion with him.  I think
we can to a considerable extend mould ourselves
to his purposes.  The Spirit of God will not
approve of excessive grief.  The virtue lies in
overcoming grief.  Who has the same means
to assist them in overcoming the sorrow of death
that the Saints of God have.  I have wondered 
how those who have not the knowledge that we
have can bear up.  But there are worse ills
than death.  To turn away from the faith.  
	Remember to-morrow is election day.  It is
our duty to vote, sisters let no trifling thing
keep you at home.  So many brethren are
away, that every sister should be prompt, and
help sustain those in office that will sustain the
kingdom of God.  
	Sister C. Horrocks, spoke of her recant visit
to St. George. and that the remembrance of it
and her visit to the Temple almost overcome
her; said she felt to try and live to the teach-
ings given there, and here in the sisters meet-
ings.  
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt, felt it was good to
attend the meetings for she always had her
spirit fed and strengthened there.  It is a 
great privilege that we can go to the polls and
vote and elect those men who are best for such
trustworthy positions, It is the very end that
the most talented women of the world are
striving for.  It is particularly important in
Utah that we be careful who presides over us.
We are getting so comfortable that we are also
becoming careless when we find ourselves sur-
rounded and overcome; we will begin to call on
the Lord to deliver us.  But it is our duty to
help ourselves.  Every woman who has the
franchise should use it.  Sisters your individual
influence may be a lever in the community.
We are entitled to maintain honest men in posi-
tion.  We have the right so to do.  Let us
think what would be our fate were we once to 
lose power.  There is a set determination to
overcome this people.  If we would not have
past injustices repeated, we must look to our-
selves. 
	Dr. E. B. Ferguson. Spoke very eloquently
upon the suffrage question said she had been in-
terested in and engaged in working for suffrage
twenty years; when she came to Utah and
learned with what wisdom women used the
ballot; she wished those in the East could under-
stand the benefit. When the children of Israel 
departed from the teachings given them they
suffered in consequence.  If we prove negligent
the Lord may suffer us to become in bondage
to those who would oppress us.  Outside men
are elected by party rather than by the people.  
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball:  said she had intended
to go to the Primary Meetings but was hindered
by a caller she had since wished she had invited
him to go with her; felt we were under obliga-
tions to give attention to public matters.  
"Every privilege becomes a duty."
	"Mrs. B. W. Smmith thought all citizens
should go to the polls and vote the right ticket.  
If we sisters elect our party we may receive some 
favors we desire;  if our enemies are elected we
may be disfranchised.  Sisters use your influ-
ence with others for good.  
	Mrs. P. L. Kimball:  It is of vital importance
to us as a people that we hold the reins of gov-
ernment in our own hands as much as possible.  
Deduct the womens' vote and see what might
follow.  Leave your work on Monday morning
until you have voted, and be sure you have
the right ticket.  I have never missed voting
since the ballot was given to the women of Utah.  
Meeting adjourned for two weeks singing dox-
ology.  Benediction by Mrs. May A. Freeze.  
	14th Ward Saturday Aug. 13.   Mrs. M. I. 
Horne presiding.  After singing and prayer
minutes were read from 11th, 12th, 18th, 10th, 
ward Primary Associations.  Sister Horne
made some remarks upon principle and recom-
mended the sisters to use herbs and faith in-
stead of employing outside physicians, thought
faith and works should go together.  I believe in
our women employing midwives instead of male 
physicians, those that have the inspiration of
God many times to preserve, as Moses was saved 
in his day.  Those who are called to teach
should speak of these things and of existing
evils.  Doctors often extort from the poor un-
justifiably, such things should be remedied.  If
you employ a Doctor adhere to their direction.  
Dr. Ferguson has said that sulphur and cream
of tartar given twice a week to children would
prevent throat diseases.  The revelations given
by Joseph Smith are more particularly adapted 
to us.  We are to be tried, there is no excel-
ency attained without exertion.  Let us seek 
to perfect ourselves before the Lord.  
	Mrs. B. W. Smith, said those that attended
these meetings are the wheat; those that watch
and pray and try to set a good example and
try to live the religion of Christ.  We do not
exercise as much faith as we shouold.  The Lord
is able to do all things for our good and the
good of our children.  I hope the sisters who 
go out to represent us in the world may be 
belssed.  
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor, spoke of her visit to Mor-
gan Co., they had live institutions there, more
active than in Salt Lake, we ought to be more
appreciative because we have greater advan-
tages than the women of the world.   Why have
any of the Saints lost their former faith.  I
fear there is a wrong in some in placing too
much faith in physicians, who do not under-
stand as much as they profess.  God should be
our great physican.  
	Mrs H. C. Young, said we do not realize as
we should the responsibility that we bear be-
fore God to the people; we should enter the
house of God with pure minds.  Spoke upon
plural narriage and tithing, the organization of
the human system how supported etc. 
	Mrs. M. P. Young and Mrs. M. I. Horne
made some suggestive remarks and the meet-
ing was adjourned for two weeks with singing
and prayer by Mrs. Julia Howe.  

	ST. DAVID CACHISE CO. ARIZONA

EEITOR EXPONENT:  
	We send you a short account of our progres-
sion in this far away place, we held our third
Annual Meeting May 4th, 1881, our account
being read showed that we had accumulated
during the year $51.50; disbursed to missionar-
ies 10.50;  school house 9.25.  For quilt mat-
erial and other things 24.40.  Balance in the 
Tretsury 7.35.  Meetings held during the year
24; members, 15; average attendance 9. 
	We are trying to do all the good we can, our
President is alive to her duty and feels a great
desire for the advancement of the Relief Society
but it seems as though we have not much chance 
here at present.  Our settlement is growing in
numbers and we hope we shall be joined soon
by some good faithful sisters that can and will
assist us in our Society.  We have a very good
day school and Sunday School, and a Primary
Association so that our children ought to ad-
vance, we feel very thankful for the privileges, 
that we are enjoying at the present time in re-
gard to our children for they have had very
little chance for education, since we came here
over four years ago.  We are always glad to
receive the EXPONENT and wish there were more 
here that felt as though they could subscribe
for it.  Praying God to bless, and aid you in
your labors, we remain your sisters in the
Gospel.  
			CYRINA MERRILL.  Pres. 
			MARIA MCRAE, Sec'y.


AUCKLAND NEW ZEALAND

	EDITOR EXPONENT.—This branch of the
Relief Society was organized by Elder George
Batt, Dec. 22, 1880. Sister Isabel Lucy ap-
pointed President, and Sister Day and Fox her
Counselors, Sister Williams, Secretary, Sister
Miles Treasurer. We commenced to accumu-
late a fund which was cheerfully subscribed to
by most of the sisters, some giving money,
others articles of clothing, etc., un[-]il at the date
of writing, our books show[-] the sum of £10.14,0
as having been received, and disbursed, £105,0
to the poor, and remainder to assist the mis-
sionaries in their labors in this land; we feel to
thank God that we are considered worthy to
assist in the great work of redemption.
	In June 9, we bade farewell to our beloved
President and her counselors, viz., Sisters Lucy.


and Day, they leaving this place for the land
of Zion, whereupon Sister Hannah Cox was
called to preside and was sustained by unani-
mous vote of the Society, which now numbers
15 members, we are anxious to do our duty,
and are assisted in this at times by Elder
Romley meeting with and occasionally instruct-
ing us, in relation to the same; his motto is "if
we do but little, let us do that little well," which
motto we adopt and hope to be able to carry
out. The Society meets semi-monthly—once for
sewing and once for business purposes, we read
with pleasure in the EXPONENT of the efforts
of our sisters at home in Zion to assist in rolling
on the work of God, and anxiously look for-
ward to the time when we will be privileged to
be with you in person as we now are in spirit,
for with the poet we truly say,

"I know it is the promised land;
My home, my home is there."

	That God may bless you in your efforts to do
good and all who favor Zion and her interests,
is the prayer of your sisters in the Gospel of
Christ.
				HANNAH COX, Pres't.
				SARAH WILLIAMS, Sec'y.

WASATCH STAKE.

	Meeting of Relief Society of Wasatch Stake
held in Heber City Hall August 5th 1881.
Present on the stand, President Emma Brown
and Counselor Mary Daybell, the presidents
of the various Societies and Associations of the
Stake Pres. H[--] Bishops Foreman and
Murdock and other brethren. Meeting called
to order by Pres. Brown, singing, prayer by
Sister Duke, singing, "Spirit of God like a fire
is burning." Minutes of Conference read and
approved. Report read by Sec'y. The Pres.
of the several Societies gave verbal reports all
seeming to feel well. Presidents of Primary
Associations gave very favorable reports. The
children are striving to improve; Sister Brown
made some appropriate remarks. Adjourned
till 2 o'clock P. M.
	Afternoon session opened by usual exercises,
prayer by Sister Cluff. As the Sec. of the Y.
L. M. I. A., was not present one was chosen.
The Presidents of the Y. L. Associations gave
in their reports all seemed to feel well and im-
proving in good works. Sister Duke, from
Provo City, addressed the conference a short
time gave good instructions to mothers with re-
gard to training and instructing their children.
Spoke on Celestial Marriage, said it was a re-
vealed law from heaven, to the Prophet Joseph;
the speaker had heard the Prophet speak on
Celestial Marriage. Exhorted the sisters to be
faithful in keeping all the commandments of
God our Father leaving nothing undone that
might insure our salvation and exaltation in
the kingdom of Heaven. Sister Moulton gave
some very excellent instructions, Bishops
Foreman and Murdock gave good counsel said
mothers should be very watchful of their
daughters that they should not keep company
with outsiders and thereby be led astray.
Pres. Hatch was very much in earnest telling
the sisters to see after their daughters that
they are at home at night; and also to know
what company they are keeping. It is the duty
of mothers to look after their children. Sister
Brown expressed herself pleased, and endorsed
all that had been said. Conference adjourned
for 3 months.
				MARY BRONSON, Sec'y.
				AVIS M. BRONSON Ass't.

	AMELIA WELLS, the Queen of the Gypsies,
is said to be worth $60. 00.

	R. S. Stake Secretaries should remember to
send full reports by the middle of September.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

DRAWING ROOM MEETINGS.

BROMPTON SQUARE.

	On Thursday the 12th of July, a drawing-room
meeting was held at the residence of Miss Cour-
tenay, Brompton Square. Amongst those pre-
sent were Lord Stratheden and Campbell, Col-
onel Morrison, Mr. Newton Scott, Miss Frances
Power Cobbe, Miss Becker, Miss Tod, Miss
Biggs, Miss Courtenay, and several others.
	Miss BECKER, in opening the proceedings, ex-
plained that the object of the meeting was the
extension of the parliamentary franchise to
women who posessed the same qualifications
that entitled men to vote. They desired the
franchise not only as an act of justice, but be-
cause the denial of it created a great deal of
mischief to women and to society. Men often
call upon women to take part of certain duties,
but the part which they ask them to take con-
sisted principally in the relief of suffering, or
the mending or repairing of some blunder. She
hoped women would be willing always to come
forward to relieve suffering; but it was beginning
at least to be seen by the more thoughtful that
the prevention of suffering was more important
than the mere relief of it. To her mind women
should have a voice in the prevention of suffer-
ing as well as take part in the alleviation of it
when it existed. The Woman's Suffrage So-
ciety was very earnest in pressing forward the
movement of giving the suffrage to women, and
in endeavoring to circulate a knowledge of its
principles; and it was by means of gatherings
like the present meeting that those principles
were brought forward into quarters which the
ordinary channels—public meetings—for dis-
seminating information in regard to the views
of the society did not reach. Much benefit to
the movement might be brought about by such
gatherings as the one they were that day at-
tending. (Hear, hear.)
MISS FRANCES POWER COBBE spoke in sup-
port of the principle. She maintained that the
movement for extending the suffrage to women
had been generally represented by its opponents
as being highly revolutionary. Its opponents
seem to think that if the right of voting were
granted to women, disastrous results would
follow; and the friends of the movement very
naturally, when they heard such things, were
anxious to try and make out that the giving
the suffrage to women would be a very small
affair, and they went back to the ancient per-
iods, when women used to vote, to show that
formerly women did exercise the franchise.
She did not think either of the views represented
by these two classes were exactly the correct
ones. It simply amounted to this, that in all
ages and times the weaker races and classes
were subject to the stronger ones. It was so in
the days of ancient Greece and Rome. In
Rome the poor slaves had to do the work, and
when they attempted to revolt, 6,000 of them
were crucified. When they came to the feudal
times it was the same thing, the serfs being the
subordinate class. The idea which she wanted
to put forward was that the giving of political
rights to the weaker classes was a notion of
modern times. Women in former times evi-
dently had no political rights, but now a period
had arrived in which all classes were beginning
to assert their rights, and therefore, she looked
upon the affording the suffrage to women not
as a wonderful revolution, but simply as an
inevitable step in the gradual progress of free-
dom throughout the world. (Applause.)
Freedom was proceeding from class to class
and from sex to sex, and the consummation
would be reached when men and women en-
joyed equal privileges. It must not be im-
agined that it was a humiliating assertion to
say that women were a weaker class. As
regards enforcing their rights they were cer-
tainly weaker—they could not pull down park

[Column 2]

railings—(a laugh)—and make the same dis-
turbances that men could—and persons were
apt to confound the want of physical power to
asert rights with the lack of power to see
wisely and judiciously what was for the public
benefit. Now in her opinion these were two
distinct things. Miss Cobbe here read some
extracts from Mr. Kinglake's work upon the
Crimean war, pointing out how badly the sick
were managed in the hospitals out at the
Crimea, her object being to show the different
way in which the female brain worked to that
of man in time of difficulty. Everything she
said, was done by the officers to improve matters,
which instead of getting better got worse.
Ultimately female aid was sent for and ob-
tained, and the state of affairs began to bright-
en up. The speaker having read some other
passages from Mr. Kinglake's work eulogising
Miss Nightingale, and referring to the great
faculties possessed by that lady, concluded by
saying that if there were only one or two Miss
Nightingales, there might still however be a 
considerable number of women quite as good as
some of those who at present got a share in the 
government. (Applause.
	Miss TOD remarked that both of the preced-
ing speakers had alluded in an informal way to
the fact that women had taken a part in public
life, and perhaps a considerable part when it
was remembered  what had been done. This
empire could not have been created had it not
been for the large and important share which
women had taken in the efforts and sacrifices
which had been made to build up its grand
history. What they were then asking for wo-
men was much more new in form than sub-
stance. Until a comparatively recent date no
very large number of men of the ordinary
middle and lower classes had a voice in the
affairs of the State, except in an indirect way.
The Reform Bills actually lessened the political
influence of women, unless they too, upon the
same conditions as the men possessed the vote,
were granted the suffrage, because those Bills
gave the men power out of all proportion to
that possessed by women. Till a comparatively
recent date the difference in that amount of
political power possessed by men over women
was not nearly so great as it was at present,
and therefore it was of importance that the
balance should be restored by giving to women
the parliamentary franchise. Women had
duties to perform to the country at large, and
the qualities which they could bring into public
life were those which to a great extent were
needed. She remembered some years ago talk-
ing to a member of the French army who was
in favor of the Empire, and was very much
struck by what that gentleman said when he
stated "that Parliaments and Assemblies were
feminine modes of government." Government
by free and open discussion and not by force—
that was by force of mind rather then physical
strength—was undeniably one in which women
could take their full rights, and it must be re-
membered that the Government of England
was a government by discussion. It was in
Parliament that all the thoughts, feelings, and 
desires, all the wants, wrongs, and interests of
the nation were discussed, and the essence and
value of such discussion was not so much the
work done as the discussion itself—the free in-
terchange of opinion amongst reasonable people.
It was the duty of women to claim their rights,
and she wished to impress upon ladies that they
ought not to set aside their duties. It was nec-
essary that they should assert their rights, and
it was the duty of every woman householder to
endeavor to obtain for herself and for her sisters
the parliamentary franchise. (Hear, hear.)
	The discussion was continued by Mr. Newton
Scott, Miss C. A. Biggs, Miss Cobbe, Miss Tod,
Miss Becker, Colonel Morrison, and Miss Cour-
tenay, and after partaking of refreshment the
party separated.


FORE STREET. 
	On July 9th a meeting was held at the house
of Mrs. Vialls, Forestreet. Miss Downing and
others addressed those assembled,and a petition
in favor of the resolution was adopted.—Wom-
en's Suffrage Journal.


56	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RUSTICATING.

	There lies in the southeastern part of Utah,
high up in the mountains, a pretty lake called
Panguitch, or by some Fish Lake; about two
miles long by a mile wide. Its depths are lit-
erally stocked with fresh pinky-colored sal-
mon trout. We are up here paying a sum-
mer's visit, and right pleasant it is, too. I
have traveled through the territory a great deal,
but the scenery near this lake surpasses all
that I have ever seen in Utah in grandeur and
beauty. One scene is gemmed in my memory.
A little vale, soft carpeted with changing
greens, surrounded by the mountain tops,
whose sides hold sentinel-pines that rise in
lofty pride and frown upon the quaken-asp
that trembles at their wrath. The little vale is
checkered here and there with silvery spots
that show which way the streamlet runs.
Across the shepherd drives his murmuring
sheep into the fold, and the lone hut bids wel-
come home with open door and curling smoke
to weary travelers. The pale blue sky, with
banks of dusky clouds, the lovely scene spread
out below, the hush and calm of Nature's bo-
som thrills me with unknown delight.	*	*
I sit here in the doorway of our unpretentious
cottage, and at my feet the lake is rippling
and curling as only lakes can do. Sometimes
I see reflected in its calm clear eyes the brown-
faced mountains opposite. Around the lake
rise wondrous hills with wooded tops. A little
valley with its light green meadows goes up to
meet the mountains on the west. Around,
about, and overhead the scene is beautiful.
Sometimes at twilight, the boat comes in to
shore, and o'er the waters floats the sound of
music. My eyes are filled with tears, and as
the singers chant, "Nearer, my God, to Thee,"
my heart is all too full for utterance. Some-
times we ride up in the canyons, and one such
trip I may describe to you, although my words
are tame and poor, compared with what the eye
would tell to you were you but here. Get in
our wagon and we will take you to the pretty
spring, whose depth gives it the name of "Blue
Spring." The road winds through the pines,
past running streams, and crosses over a mea-
dow to the hills beyond. We climb up a half
mile, swing round a little plateau, and here we
are. A perfect circle full 50 feet across holds
down in its bosom a faultless spring of ice cold
water. We scramble down the rim and walk
out on the pine tree flung from side to side, and
look down into this lakelet's pretty eyes. We
gather at its brink wild roses and geraniums,
and climbing up its sides we spread our shawls
beneath the trees, and drink in all the loveli-
ness of this lone spot. The wind tells mourn-
ful stories in the pines. One tale it tells is this:
A maiden in the far-off olden time, with sweet-
est eyes of blue, laid all she loved beneath the
sod. Down her cheeks there flowed a stream
of tears, and raising oft her eyes, she prayed to
Jove to let her watch over that dear grave for-
ever. The prayer was heard, and eyes of blue
were circled round with earth's broad arm and
down the hill, the tears flowed as a silver
stream, while lofty trees caught up the maid-
en's voice, and with their boughs bore to each
other the oft-told tale of love and constancy,
and so the eyes of blue, the sighing voice are
ever near the spot.			HOMESPUN.


[Column 1]
	The mortality in Salt Lake City for the
month of August was unusally large.

[Column 2]
		FOR SALE
Home-Made SILK,
AT
CUTLER’S COMMISSION STORE.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
[Image of denture] SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully 
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:—MAIN ST OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P. O. Box, 541.

[Column 3]
		A LARGE STOCK,
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,		Brown Yarns,		Cotton Batting,
Flannels,		White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linaeys,		Casalmers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection [---]
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the late[--]
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP.
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
	OFFICE and RESIDENCE over Contributor Office, north of
Z.C.M.I.
	Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children as special-
ties.

THE LADIES 
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES AND SLIPPERS.
Also, full and desireable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obe found in the West. [Icon of hand pointing] Your Orders are Solicitied.
		GEO. DUNFORD.

F. AUERBACH AND BRO.
HAVE
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
[Repeated hand icon] Spring and Summer Goods. [hand icon]
DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.

[hand icon] Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice.  Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
[hand icon] Address, David James, Box 386, Salt Lake City

[hand icon] Z. C. M. I. [hand icon]

WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARD,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
	DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77, AND 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE—Up Stairs, in Old Constitution Building.
RESIDENCE—Six Blocks East of Post Office. South side
of street.
[hand icon] Special study has been given to Obstetrics, Diseases of
Women, and DISEASES of the EYE and EAR.


A WORD TO MOTHERS.

	Mothers talk much with your children and
little to them.  You whose "feet are beautiful
upon the mountains of experience can show to
them the path which led you hither, and speak
of the thorns that pierced your tender hands
when tumbling over some rock of mistake,
doubt or uncertainty, you fell by the wayside.
One tender looking confidential talk is worth
many stern admonitions.  Advice antagon-
izes and humiliates.  Sympathy encourages
and elevates.  The mother who steals her arm
gently about her darling and says, 'I made that
mistake, or I gave you way to that temptation, and
I would save you that pain which I have suf-
fered."  wins a lasting victory over the most
alluring temptation.  Rebuke rouses antagon-
ism and rebellion, and back of these is concealed
the adversary.  If the child is mother's confi-
dent the door is ajar for all good influences and
happy results, and the mother may make her
responsibility lighter by putting her children
upon their personal responsibility toward God,
and then saying I will go with you and aid you
all I can by my love, sympathy and instruction,
but the results of your actions are between you
and God.--Ex. 				M. F. R.


WHAT harm would it have done the Inter
National Medical College if the Queen had
withdrawn her name as patron? It would have
been worth while to find out. Real values do
not require names.—Ex.

	FOR a woman who has got on so well in the
world, it is decidedly mean in Queen Victoria
to object to the presence of women in the In-
ternational Medical Congress, who simply ask
the right to earn their own living in an humble
way.—Springfield Republican.

	During the past fifteen years, the Congres-
sional Library has doubled three times, and if
the present rate of increase continues, it will
not take long to reach a million volumes. In
1814, the library—founded in 1800—contain-
ed 3,000 volumes, and was burned by the Bri-
tish when they captured Washington.—Ex.

	Preston Powers' marble bust of John G.
Whittier has been placed in the East Room of
the Boston Public Library, and represents
the poet in a musing mood, with head slightly
bent. The same artist's bust of President
Garfield was begun in his studio at Florence on
the day of the attempted assassination.—Ex.

	The Boston Herald well says: "In setting
herself against the admittance of female phy-
sicians to the medical congress, the Queen has
shown herself illiberal, but in rather an absurd
light logically, unless she wishes to discounten-
ance the entry of women into one profession
most suited to them, and most needing them."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 10. 		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 15, 1881.


GATHERING AUTUMN LEAVES.
"So, so; you've been wandering over the hills,
To catch the music of rippling rills,
As they wind through the crooked and rocky ravine,
Like glistening ribbons of satin and sheen.

"Take care, little woman! to you it seems fine;
To me, you have only been wasting your time;
It would bring us, I think, more stockings and shoes,
It you helped in to gather the corn from the mews."

"Our time is our money, I've heard mother say,
In wasting our time we throw money away;
To waste not and want not was always out rule--
'Twas a copy-line written me when I was at school."

To the loving wife's face came a look of surprise,
The tears came unbidden into her brown eyes--
"Dear John, do not blame me," she said as she kissed
His hand with a grace that he could not resist

"I have hurried all day to be able to go,
I can make up the time after supper, you know;
But I wanted to gether some leaver and some moss,
And see the sun  in his cloudlets of floss.

"And then, as I gathered my autumnal leaves,
(Did you ever behold such beauties as these?)
I prayed to the Lord that our autumn of life
Might always be free from confusion and strife."

"That out lives, dear heart, may be glowingand bright, 
With a halo of love and heavenly light,
As the setting sun and these autumn leaves, 
Which I've gathered beneath the grand old trees.

"And John, I prayed that our boys and our girls
Might be as pure as these mountain pearls,
As clear and as bright as the rippling rills--
'Tis a glourious thing to go to the hills."

"John's voice was strangely soft and low
As he answered, "Dear Katie, next time you go
I'd like to go too, I think that I can,
You have made me think I'm a child again.

"But Katie, the heavens are full of days,
And I do not think it always pays
To work all day and at night work late,
So put it away as once, my Kate."
							E.A.B.


[Column 1]

PEN SKETCH OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS
WOMAN.

ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH

CONTINUED.

	From the time the first organization of a
Primary Association was effected in Salt Lake
City, Sister Eliza continued to go from ward
to ward and settlement to settlement, organiz-
ing wherever the Bishops and others interested
became converted to the new idea. She also 
visited other counties, organizing the children
everywhere it seemed practicable. A large
portion of her time has been devoted ever
since in promoting the interests of the little folks,
aiding in various ways those who have charge
of these Associations in their work, which la-
bor doubly entitles her to the name so honora-
bly earned, Mother in Israel. After the Octo-
ber Conference, 1878, Sister Eliza took a jour-
ney through a part of Morgan, Box Elder, and
Weber counties, visiting Relief Societies and
Young Ladies' Associations, speaking two or
three times every day: and organizing the chil-
dren in many places.
	Sister Eliza returned home, weary and tired,
about the middle of November, just in time to
preside at the grand mass meeting of 15,000
women, <the timeifthd="" first.="" .organizations="" of="" a="" tnpri="" ity?yva="" sgoraatioif="" rwaa="" :e5ectedbinrsalt.'lake="" -="" city="" sister="" eliza="" contintiedtoi="" gofrom-ward="" to-vai‘d-'and.settlement:toisettleiueiit6rgacizl="" "="" ing="" vherevedthedbisho'p3;and:others="" interested="" jiibecatq'erconverted="" td="" the="" new.="" idea="" 1="" she="" also="" i="" 'visited-other="" counties,="" :orgariizingrthe;children="" everywhere,="" it="" seemed="" practicable:="" ai="" large="" -portion="" ofi’her="" time="" lias-="" bedn="" devoted!="" river="" tsince="" in="" promoting="" ifaterets="" little,="" folks,="" aidinguri="" 'various,ways="" those="" who="" have9charge="" 5oh="" these-="" associations="" in,="" their="" ivorkiyhfch="" la-="" borcdoubly="" entitles="" her="" to="" name="" .so="" hohora-="" blrearned,="" mother="" xsrael="" after="" qcto-="" v="" io-?o="" —="" tre,="" !nov.="" 16,="" fererice="" and"="" ,.="" ,="" ..="" anti-polygamy="" society..="" this="" was="" largest="" yeoman’s="" meeting="" ever="" .held="" utah,="" and="" wa3.="" proper="" that="" one="" who,="" hid="" been,'connected="" with="" order="" plural,="" marriagerdm'lie.="" very="" beginning="" should="" preside="" oyer="" '="" vast="" assem-="" bly="" ladies="" deliberations.="" on.being="" called="" the,="" chair,="" responded="" (eloquently.although="" had="" hot="" had.a="" moment’s="" leisure="" prepare="" herself.="" uter="" qommand="" language="" is="" excellent,="" and.="" such'="" an="" occasion="" called'="" up="" host="" strong="" ai‘drfou:stirring.e.moi="" 'tioiis1.'="" stating="" briefly="" the!="" object="" pf="" -the="" meeting,="" "she="" 'enumerated="" some.="" trials="" throiigh:which="" saints="" passed.,="" andhe="" 'sacrifices="" they="" been,="" upo="" make="" frbmllme="" before="" celestial="" marriage="" given="" by="" revelation!="" commandment="" jo-="" seph="" smith,="" 'the="" prbphet.="" lye="" gtve="" below="" j'couple="" paragraphs="" from="" her!="" speech,="" delivered="" latrthat="" time:="" tast="" weber="" visiting="" kelief="" societies="" young="" ladies’rassociatiofis,="" spealring="" two="" three-="" times="" every,="" day.-="" arid.organiziiig="" the.chil-="" dreniii="" many="" places.oii-="" .="" d="" ij="" sistereliza="" retuinedihbme,="" weary="" arid,tired,="" about="" middle="" of’="" november,="" just="" preside-;="" ah'-the="" .grrind="" mass="" meetiripp="" of-15,000="" 'women.="">which was held in the Salt Lake Thea-

[Column 2]

tre, Nov. 16, 1878, to protest against the inter-
ference and misrepresentations of the Ladies'
Anti-Polygamy Society. This was the largest 
woman's meeting ever held in Utah, and it
was proper thet one who had been connected
with the order of plural marriage from the very 
beginning should preside over this vast assem-
bly of ladies in their deliberations.
	On being called to the chair, she responded
eloquently, although she had not had a moment's
leisure to prepare herself. Her command of
language is excellent, and such an occasion
called up a host of strong and soul-stirring emo-
tions. After stating briefly the object of the
meeting, she enumerated some of the trials
through which the Saints had passed and the
sacrifices they had been called upon to make
from time to time before celestial marriage was
given by revelation and commandment to Jo-
seph Smith, the Prophet. We give below a 
couple of paragraphs from her speech delivered
at that time:
	I am proud to state before this large and
honorable assembly that I believe in the prin-
ciple of plural marriage just as sacredly as I
believe in any other institution, which God has
revealed. I believe it to be necessary for the
redemption of the human family from the low
state of corruption into which it has sunken.
And I truly believe that a congress composed
of polygamic men, who are true to their wives,
would confer a far higher honor upon a nation,
and would perform better service to their coun-
try than a congress composed of monogamic,
unreliable husbands.  
	Virtue is the foundation of the prosperity
of any nation; and this sacred principle of
plural marriage tends to virtue, purity and ho-
liness. Those who represent the women of
Utah as ignorant and degraded are either aim-
ing to bring evil upon us, or they know not
what they are doing. Although I deprecate
the false and odious representations of our con-
dition and the vilification of our characters, I
view with pity and commiseration, those who
have banded together in our midst, to work up
a crusade that is calculated and designed to
subvert and to sever the most sacred tie ex-
isting between man and woman—to separate
husbands and wives, to put the reproach of
bastardy upon their children and trample up-
on the holiest affections of the human heart. I
say I look upon them with sympathy and com-
miseration. They are trying to measure arms
with the Almighty—they know not what they
do. Do I feel a spirit of revenge towards
them? I do not, my sisters, I do not. They are in
the hands of God, and to Him we submit all
these matters. Yet it is our duty, as far as
we have the privilege, to plead our own cause,
realizing fully that it is better to represent our-
selves than to be misrepresented; and leave
vengeance unto God, who has said, "Vengeance
is mine and I will repay." For this purpose,
my sisters, we have met together to express our
feelings and to plead our own cause."
	Shortly after, perhaps six weeks, the Su-
preme Court of the United States gave the un-
looked-for decision in the Reynold's case, which
coused such a revulsion of feeling and almost
appalled those who had looked upon the honor-
able members of that dignified body as just,
upright and invulnerable in equity and right.
	Sister Eliza was a patriot, the granddaugh-
ter of a veteran officer in the revolutionary
army, and she looked with dismay upon such

[Column 3]

an unjust decision. She had thought that at
least the religious exile might obtain redress
upon that one clause, "worship God according
to the dictates of their own consciences;" there
the law must hang, it could not pass that by.
She sat down and penned the following senti-
ments, which are now for the first time given to
the public:

DECISION OF THE SUPREME COURT OF THE 
	UNITED STATES, IN THE CASE OF GEORGE
	REYNOLDS.

"Let oureyes look upon Zion, let her be defiled."
	—MICAH.
	Let us enter the private scantuary of domestic
life, where to the honor of this great Republic,
the divinity of the marriage tie is acknowledged
and held sacred; and where virtue, the crowning
glory of the social circle, is bravely and success-
fully protected.
	There, let us with wanton cruelty defy the
sacred Constitution of our country, and by
trampling on the rights of conscience, sever the
holy bands of wedlock—separate husbands and
wives, parents and children and ignore the purest
affections of the human heart.
	Let us cause thousands of honorable loving
wives to be stigmatized as prostitutes, and their
offspring as bastards. Let us cause multitudes of
innocent children that are now tenderly cared,
provided for and educated, to be branded with in-
famy and deprived of heirship.
	Yea, let us desecrate the homes and extermin-
ate the only people of whom our nation can truly
boast as protectors of purity and innocence lest
their virtuous honorable example, shall, in the
present reign of corruption, rise up before us as a
burning reproof.
	Let us immure in solitary prisons those brave
men who, for the sake of worshiping God accord-
mg to the dictates of their consciences, left
their homes and the graves of their noble ances-
tors and sought refuge in the sterle American
Desert. Where, nerved by the power of faith in
the arm of Jehovah, in whom they trusted, for
awhile they battled with the elements for life,
and at length, with indomitable energy, over-
come the barrenness of the soil, and made "the
desert blossom as the rose."
	Those were the men who, with their stalwart
sons, the offspring of celestial plural marriage,
with a stern, unyielding persevereance established
a connecting link between the commercial cities
of the East and the rich mining districts of the
West, and made practicable for the nation, the
Continental transit of the "iron horse."
	Let us erase from the book of remembrance
the countless deeds of hospitality and generosity
bestowed by those early settlers of the wilder-
ness, on our perishing emigrants when their sup-
plies were exhausted as they were wending their
way through to California.
	Let us plant the seeds of devastation in a thriv-
ing, peaceful, insustrious community—a Terri-
tory brought into existence and made to flourish
without the aid, encouragement or protection
from the Government under which it exists.
	Yea, let us abrogate the rights of its founders
insomuch that henceforth it shall be controlled
by gamblers and speculators who have no in-
terest in common with the
	Instead of the Territory as it now is, a theme
of boast as a nucleus of peace, good orde


and happiness, let us, through our
crushing policy, present it to the nations
abroad, a spectacle of confusion, desola-
tion and woe.
	Let us tear asunder that mighty shield of the
rights of conscience, our glorious Constitution—
let us place our veto on the commands of the
Almighty and presume to measure arms with
the Great Ruler of the Universe.

	Thus saith the Supreme Court of the United
States of America, the court of final decision, the
highest Tribunal of a great and powerful nation,
the last earthly resort to which the oppressed can
appeal for protection, and suffering innocence,
for redress.
					ELIZA R. S. SMITH.

	Sister Eliza, as has been stated, like other
native-born American women, prided herself up-
on the Constitution, believing it gave religious
liberty to all of whatever creed, sect or de-
nomination. Her forefathers fought for liber-
ty and freedom, and she is strongly endowed
with the spirit of true patriotism. That deci-
sion was to her a disappointment, and she could
but give expression to her outraged feelings in
scathing sarcasm. It seemed impossible that
those wise and judicious minds, from whose
judgment there is no appeal save to One above,
should render such a decision, and one cannot
help exclaiming, "How are the might fallen!"
			To be continued.


58	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SCENES IN NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	The Prophet Joseph, being anxious to have
my father nearer to himself and his brethern, our
place on the hill was exchanged for one on the
flat, where father built us a more commodious
house of hewn logs containing three lower
rooms and a chamber, which we moved into
the fall after his return from Europe.
	Our city was then in its infancy, and no saw-
mills or brick kilns had been built. We liked
the situation of our new home much the best,
being in the vicinity of the Temple and grove
where the meetings were held, and also the
general traveling ground, as well as the Missis-
sippi river, where we could go to bathe any
evening without fear of intrusion.
	In the summer season the water was very
warm, but sometimes in the heat of the summer
it was considered unhealthy, and the Prophet
thought it advisable to abstain from indulging
too freely during the sickly season.
	For a time after we settled on the flat there
were but few houses built between ours and the
river, and "oft in the stilly night" waking from
our slumbers we would hear delicous strains of
music wafted by the breeze over our quiet city
from some steamer passing up or down the
river, as they were frequently accompanied by
minstrels, sometimes colored people and their
music was perfectly enchanting—"Behold how
brightly breaks the morning," "The Cracovion
Maid" and "Home, Sweet Home," and in many
Ethiopean airs they excelled. The following
verse will,no doubt, remind many beside myself
of their most charming serandades—

"My skiff is by the shore
	She's light and free,
To ply the feathered oar
	Is joy to me,
And as she glides along,
	My song shall be,
Dearest maid, I love but thee!"

	Negro melodies are always sweet, and there
is something most exqusite in the sound of music
from the water.
	We hardly realized the extent of our bless-
ings there, until we came to this far off deso-
late looking country. For a number of years
my heart, despite of myself would yearn for the
green woods and hills and delightful vales that
we had been exiled from,and most of all was the

[Column 2]
view of the broad Mississippi, where we could
see and hear the the steamers as they plied up
and down its quiet bosom. We did not know
how to appreciate them,nor those beautiful rich
prairies covered, as far as the eye could reach,
with tall waving grass, and decked with wild
flowers of various hues, with occasional groves
and streams of water; nor the woodlands where
grew a variety of native fruits and nuts, so near
us that they could be had for the plucking;
but here we had to go to the canyons and climb
mountains to obtain the service [-]erry and the
few indigenous fruits of the country.
	The few old settlers in Commerce had an
abundance of Apples, Peaches and Cherries, etc.,
but we were not allowed to stay there long
enough to enjoy the fruit from our own or-
chards.
	Had it not been for my kindred ties, and
what was of still greater value, my religion, I
am sure that I could not have reconciled my-
self to remain in this dreary and out of the
way place, and there were many more who,
had it not been for their faith in the promises
of the Almighty, who they knew had guided
his servants here by revelation, could not have
held out under the many trials and privations
that they were subjected to. There were a
few whose faith failed them and they sought a
more congenial clime. During our long
journey here from Nauvoo, we had been accus-
tomed to noise and bustle of camp life, and
many a time I longed for some quiet spot where
I could enjoy a little solitude; but after our
journey was ended and the Saints began to
to scatter over the valley and our men were
all gone to work in the Canyons or digging
ditches, building, planting, or doing what ever
was necessary, we had quietness and solitude
to our hearts' content. No one who was able
to work could afford to be idle, but I had been
and was still very sick when we entered the
Valley and no one but my father thought it
possible for me to live, and it was my misfor-
tune to be an invalid for a number of years
after, and oh, those long quiet days, sometimes
it seemed to me they would never draw to a
close. We lived then where we do now near
the mouth of City Creek canyon, which was
really the most romantic and delightful spot in
the Valley; there were two branches that ran
through the city but after they were changed
and all the willows and wild rose bushes which
thickly covered them and kept the water cold
as it came down from the mountains were dug
away, there was nothing left to admire but the
rugged snow capped mountains or to relieve
the eye from the everlasting sage brush and
sun flowers. I remember with what joy I
welcomed the whistle of the locomotive on the
day that it first entered this Valley; the first
car, by the by, that I had ever seen or heard,
as the Latter-day Saints had moved westward
in advance of the railroads. There had been
one commenced at Quincy, Illinois, before we
came there from Missouri; but there was
nothing more done to it until after we left the
States.
	When I reflect upon the past scenes and
some of the incidents in the early history of
the Saints and draw the comparison between
then and now, and see their present prosperous
condition, with our beautiful cities and farms
with flocks and herds and rich pastures spread
over this once desolate land,I am led to exclaim,
Oh how weak and shortsighted we mortals are
and how much need there is for revelation from
a higher power than man to guide us. Could
anything of a worldly nature induce me now to
leave my home in this lovely City? No, I would
not exchange it and the peace that I enjoy with
this people for all there is east or west of these
Rocky Mountains; at least until the time
comes for Zion to return to inherit the lands
whence she was driven, for to her I can say:
"Whither thou goest, I will go; where thou

[Column 3]
lodgest, I will lodge; thy people shall be my peo-
ple, and thy God my God."
	I seated myself to dot down incidents and
scenes in Nauvoo; but before I am aware of it I
find that my thoughts have carried me far away
from the subject: but to continue:
	Among the most pleasant of my early re-
membrances was the Nauvoo Brass Band
which was organized in the year 1842 by Bro-
ther William Pitt and also the Martial Band
under Bro. Levi W. Hancock and Dimick B.
Huntington, as Fife and Drum Major. Their
best drummer was Brother E. P. Dusette, with
whom we were previously acquainted in Far
West, Missouri. His performance on the drum-
I never saw equalled. Samuel D. Billings,
eldest son of Bro. Titus Billings was nearly as
good. In 1843, or near that time having be-
come a member of the choir, led by Stephen
Goddard, I became intimately associated with
the members of the choir and Brass Band in
the concerts of vocal and instrumental music
given in our Nauvoo Concert Hall. I shall
probably refer to them again, as we were asso-
ciated from that time and journeyed together
from Nauvoo to Winter Quarters.
			To be continued.


<gagar. andtiuns="" downnyour="" iace-="" you="" are="" not,as="" jwprpsswith="" the.="" beaqties.ttf="" wild="" ntuiorea,="" n="" ature="" thqpne="" ojsnottjiere.="" so="" we="" veri,="" dnougvmfsmblqriiiy.'the="" wagon,="" camprewr?,:="" bojces,.pails,opesj="" damp-="" kettles,="" babies="" and="" all.and="" rattle="" dismally="" down="" to="" $?&="" $!="" the="" watef’s="" eage.="" ,="" jiejfajge.="" ftmptyrpqm,="" pfiered="" us="" seemed="" a="" haven.pf="" restl-="" tlskawl="" whatif.="" ft="" was="" smoky="" an<tdirty.="" discovered="" an="" invalid="" bedstead,aiid="" mgehuityha'd="" it="" boanloon="" best="" of="" all,="" i="" did="" nof.7eak,..="" hereito="" ape="" safe,="" warm="" dry.="" thbre'were="" liiards,="" thd="" ‘bluff="" 'ao‘$n'6i-="" told="" us.="" “ouch,="" ouch,”="" uttered="" wo-="" men.="" “oh,="" whar8f-tkai”taid="" men,="" draw-="" jiogaheiy="" ftikcter="" taghay="" j<1="" svxlsq="" tfound="" that="" chance="" siirlrnaing="" across="" roof,="" sent="" dirt="" rattlingdown="" like="" hail.="" oh,well,="" got="" used-lo="" that,="" as.="" wellps="" piaster="" falling="" from="" stde="" wails'lnto'="" our="" food="" beds.="" arennr.="" necessity="" using="" broom="" semi-occaslonally,'="" out="" sugar,="" icandlekandictea,ihub="" ithecviewijs="" rsws$t,="" ijxrdotkdsmewiidctheairdaiajdgqtetiag.-="" so’me-="" tetimes-ieesaitqiaide;="" ithhfe="" areljbuf.iiicn’s="" lcsaddlek:(avbcatlthat)yahdweatebdtemu-="" jlate-anrni'aachliecmahneiij="" riding'="" gxcept="" uwheh="" alondnd="" away="" foohwobsersatioaj="" and,="" miahour.asyiridiag.animalshav'ecthosetiresome="" i.'sor-back’ioijoitii="" healthy,="" however="" io="" be="" vvjolted="">THE OTHER SIDE.

	I want to tell you a little of the prosy side
of our pictursque summer home resort. We
camped out in the pines when we first reached
the Lake, but the morning brought rain, steady.
drenching, penetrating rain. Camp-fires light-
ing up the beautiful scene, casting the shadows
of stately pines, and playing fitfully upon the
groups of lounging forms, around. But when
the rain puts out the coals, soaks the biscuts,
spoils the sugar and runs down your face you
are not as impressed with the beauties of wild
untutored nature as is the one who is not there.
So we were glad enough to scramble in the
wagon, camp chairs, boxes, pails, ropes, camp-
kettles, babies and all, and rattle dismally down
to where a few log cabins stand close to the
water's edge. The large empty room offered us
seemed a haven of rest. Pshaw! what if it was
smoky and dirty. We discovered an invalid
bedstead, and ingenuity and a few board soon
shaped another—the fireplace was large, and
best of all, it did not leak. Here we are safe,
warm and dry. There were lizards, the bluff
owner told us. "Ouch, ouch," uttered the wo-
men. "Oh, what of that," said the men, draw-
ing their feet closer together. We also found
that a chance squirrel running across the roof,
sent the dirt rattling down like hail. Oh,well,
we got used to that, as well as to the plaster
falling from the side walls into our food and
beds. We are under the necessity of using a
broom semi-occasionally. We are out of sugar,
candles and tea, but the view is sweet, the
mo[--] is new, and the air is invigorating. Some-
times we essay to ride; there are but men's
saddles (a favor at that), and we dare not emu-
late our masculines' manner of riding except
when alone and away from observation; and,
ah, our easy riding animals have those tiresome
sore backs. 'Tis healthy, however, to be
jolted. It is known here to have no wood, and
men out fishing on the lake. 'Tis there we rise
superior to the occasion, and raising up our
arms, we raise our muscle and hew the native
pine, and like our sister Lo, we are not grace
itself, but we cook the meal. Our health is
good, and so we sing. Our hearts are light.
and so we dance. Our fish is trout, and so we
eat. Our table's rickety, what matter. Our
skins are tanned, 'tis nothing. One night, our
merry Georgie took a ride, and, ah, when she
came back, we thanked our God. Far out up
in the lonely road, the horse lay dead and car-
riage splintered up, but she, our darling, lay
safe within our arms. And thus we live.
							HOMESPUN.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 59


THE LITTLE WHITE-HAIRED
MOTHER.

	The first act of President Garfield, after his inaugura-
tion, was to salute with a kiss the dear and venerable
mother to whom he owed so much:

With sudden praise, a mighty voice
	Sweeps all the continent;
Helpless, before the people's choice,
	The statesman's wills have bent;
It honors first, before all other,
A patient "little white-haired mother."

The day has come—the hour draws near;
	Look on, the listening land:
Who brings this ruler, peer with peer?
	Who stays him, hand in hand?
Honored by him above all other,
He brings his "little white-haired mother."

The glittering embassies of kings
	Are standing in their state;
Their tributes rank as lesser things,
	They and their kingdoms wait;
While, reverently, before all other,
The ruler greets his "white-haired mother."

All states may grow, and men may gain,
	And power and riches swift increase.
The brunt of every country's strain,
	Its fight for purity and peace,
Comes through its husbands, daughters, brothers;
At last on patient "white-haired mothers."

—Philadelphia Friends' Intelligence, May 21, 1881.


[Column 1]
THE MOTHER OF PRESIDENT GAR-
FIELD.

[SELECTED.

	Her maiden name was Eliza Ballou. She is
a descendant of Maturin Ballou, a Huguenot
of France, who was driven from his country
upon the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes.
He joined the colony of Roger Williams, and
settled in America. He built a meeting place
at Cumberland, Rhode Island, which is still
carefully preserved as a relic of the past, and
is known as the Elder Ballou Meeting-house.
At the time it was built there was no saw-mills,
no nails, and few tools in the country. Its
galleries and pews, and even its floors, were
hewn out of the solid logs, and put together
with wooden pegs.
	Abraham Garfield and Eliza Ballou both
emigrated from the State of New York, and
were married in 1821. They had gone in 1830
to Orange, Cuyahoga County, Ohio, where a
year later their son James was born, being their
fourth child. Their log-house was built when
the heavy forest was but partly cleared away.
the fences were not yet made about the fields,
when the father, in fighting a forest fire that
threatened the destruction of their home, over-
heated himself, was suddenly chilled, and in a
few days died. His last words to his wife, as
he looked upon his children, were: "I have
planted four saplings in this forest, I must now
leave them to your care."
	A happier family never dwelt in a palace
than had been in that cabin home. Little
James was but eighteen months old when his
father died—too young to understand the irre-
parable loss, or feel the pangs of grief that well-
nigh crushed other hearts. The neighbors
came—only four or five in a radius of ten miles
—and wept with the widow and fatherless.
With their assistance the lifeless form was en-
closed in a rough coffin, and buried in a corner
of the wheatfield near by—no sermon, no
prayer, except the silent prayers that went up
from aching hearts. Winter was approaching.
Could human experience be more dreary than
a woman left a widow, alone with her children
in a wilderness swept by wintry storms? The
howl of the wolves and the cry of the panthers
never sounded so terrible as during those long
desolate winter nights. It seemed to the weary
ones that spring would never come again. But

[Column 2]
at last it did come, and swept away the snow
and ice. The dead things of the field and forest
returned to life; save only the dead in the cor-
ner of the wheatfield, and hope was not revived
in the cabin, There was no money in the
house, there was a debt on the farm; and the
food supply was limited.
	Then Eliza Garfield sought the advice of a
neighbor, who had been kind to her in time of
trouble. He advised her to sell the farm, pay
off the dept, and return to her friends, believing
it to be impossible for her to support herself
and children there. Her reply was character-
istic—"I can never throw myself and children
upon the charity of friends. So long as I have
health I believe my heavenly Father will bless
these two hands, and make them able to sup-
port my children. My dear husband made
this home at the sacrifice of his life, and every
log in this cabin is sacred to me now. It seems
to me a holy trust that I must preserve as faith-
fully as I would guard his grave."
	Her neighbor left her, and she went to the
Friend who never fails, and asked God to make
the way of duty clear to her. And when she
came from her place of prayer she felt that new
light and strength had been given to her.
	She called her eldest son, Thomas to her and,
though he was only a child ten years old, she
laid the whole case before him. With the
resolute courage of his race, he gladly promised
he wonld plow and sow, cut wood, and milk
the cows, if she would only keep the farm. So
this brave mother and son commenced their
work. She sold part of the farm, and paid
every dollar of debt. Thomas, procuring a
horse, plowed and sowed and planted. The
mother with her own hands split the rails and
completed the fencing.
	But the harvest was still far away, and corn
was running low. The mother carefully
measured her precious grain, counted the days
to the reaping time, and finding it would be ex-
hausted long before that time at their present
rate of consumption, she resolved to live on two
meals a day herself that her children might
not suffer. Then as the little store rapidly
disappeared, she ate but a single meal herself,
concealing her self-denial from her children,
until the blessed harvest brought relief." That
year it was very abundant, and the wolf of
hunger never came so near their door again.
	Still there were many years of hardship and
self-denial, in which the brave woman had to
be father and mother, teacher and preacher to
her children. She was the wise and tender
friend, guiding them in the right way, and in-
spiring them to choose the best things in life.
She still lives to see her great reward, and "her
children rise up, and call her blessed."


INTERESTING ITEMS.

	A few weeks ago, a gentleman in the city
bought and sent to a lady friend, "Wild Flow-
ers of Deseret." The lady and her relatives
are friends, through long years, of President
Garfield and his family. Her father is a min-
ister of the church to which President Gar-
field belongs. Here is the lady's reply, and it
has more than a personal interest. I send this,
copied from the original, which the gentleman
sent me.					Your Friend
DEAR FRIEND E.:
	I have gotten so in the way of talking with
you all in my quiet leisure, that I come now while
F. has her sister. You have indeed furnished
me a treat in this modest little book of poems.
This morning I had time to read "Friend." It
is beautiful. Unless you are familiar with the
book; you will not know what gives me plea-
sure. "Through the Storm" and "Ruthie's
Child" are full of sublimity. "Flowers" touch
the heart. "Women of Zion" has a history.
For what was that mass meeting called? Is it


true that the Mormons had no part in the Cen-
tennial? I hope you have one of these books,
and will read with me at the fourth verse:
		"But we the outcast heirs,"etc.
	I thought of those exiles fleeing from before
persecution at Nauvoo, and earlier from Kirt-
land, so near my home. As I crossed the
country on the iron tramway, in many places
I could see the emigrant trail. At Salt Lake,
looked toward the city, 37 miles away. Thought
much all the live long way. Said of course
no woman could escape from that place if she
wanted to ever so much; but now the iron horse
is ready, harnessed and bridled. She can go if
she wants to. The faith born of persecution,
privations and perils, such as the early
pioneer Mormon women endured is a thorough
faith. I do not wonder that Brig-
ham Young is a power to them, but
what is their belief? I am becoming
strangely interested in this people; begin to
think there is some good "in Nazareth yet." If
you see the author of this little book, or her
husband, tell them I have taken comfort in
reading it; that I think it the production of a
good, pure mind; that it would be a pleasure
for me to take her by the hand as we move on-
ward to the Celestial Land.
		MARY W.
	We trust our readers will be pleased to know
the little book of poems, "Wild Flowers of
Deseret," has found appreciative readers
abroad. It certainly has merit, and will yet
find its way into many hearts and homes.﻿


&nbsp;QUEEN VICTORIA’S CROWN.

	The following description of Queen Victoria’s
crown has been furnished by Professor Ten-
nant, mineralogist to the Queen:
	The-Imperial State Crown of Queen Victoria
was made by Messrs. Rundel and Bridge, in
the year, 1838, with jewels taken from old
crowns, and furnished by command of Her
Majesty. It consists of diamonds, pearls, rubies,
sapphires, and emeralds, set in silver and gold.
It has a crimson velvet cap,with ermine border,
and is lined with white silk. Its gross weight
is thirty ounces, five pennyweights troy. The
lower part of the ermine border, consists of a
row of one hundred and twenty-nine pearls,and
the upper part of the band a row of one hun-
dred and twelve pearls, between which, in front
of the crown, is a large sapphire, partly drilled,
purchased for the crown by King George IV.
At the back are the sapphires, three on each
side, between them are eight emeralds. Above
and below the seven sapphires are fourteen
diamonds, and around the eight emeralds one
hundred and twenty-eight diamonds. Between
the emeralds and the sapphires are sixteen
trefoil ornaments, containing one hundred and
sixty diamonds. Above the band are eight
sapphires, surrounded by eight diamonds, be-
tween which are eight festoons, consisting of
one hundred and forty-eight diamonds. In
the front of the crown, and in the center of a
large Maltese cross, is the famous ruby said to
have been given to Edward, Prince of Wales,
son of Edward III.—called the Black Prince.
							—Selected


The heart is the only thing that is better by
being broken. -Persian Proverb.

	That which is the truth teaches the doctrine
of love to all persons, but by virtue of that
love it teaches also to hate the errors which
mislead and the delusions which blind
them. The truth, therefore, is necessarily ex-
clusive of its opposite; and to propose a peace
between them is simply a disguised mode of
proposing to truth suicide, and obtaining for
falsehood victory. —Gladstone


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1881.


THE PRESIDENT. 

	Everything connected with President Garfield
is intensely interesting at the present time to all
loyal Americans and to many others. The news-
papers were never so watched for unless in the
recent war as they are now. Yet the telegrams
are nearly all unsatisfactory and sometimes
one cannot help feeling they are also unreliable,
for the most contradictory reports are occasion-
ally received; one day one will become quite
elated with the idea of his speedy recovery and
the next feel he is sure to die. Strange, too, that
it was never even hinted before that the White
House was unhealthy; others seemed to thrive
exceedingly well in the malarial atmosphere if
such it be. If President Garfield had not been
wounded, the people would probably have been
in blessed ignorance yet of the unhealthy home
of the Chief Executive of the Republic.
	However, we are very glad President Garfield
has succeeded in his wish or desire to go to Long
Branch and sincerely hope the sea breeze will
prove invigorating to the Nation's invalid. The
latest news seems more favorable to his recovery
than any of recent date. To be able to sit up
even in an invalid's chair is encouraging, and
savors of convalescence. President Garfield has
shown himself a truly brave man by his patient
endurance of pain and confinement. It is hard
for a strong, active man to be laid low without
a moment's warning, and that he has never com-
plained or manifested feelings of hatred or re-
venge, endears him a thousand times more to his
friends and countrymen, as well as givi[-]g them
assurance he is not only a man of nerve and
great nobility of character, but patient, capable
of wonderful endurance and withal, a sincere
Christian.
	But what of the wife and mother, have they
not also suffered? Yes, if not physically, men-
tally and spiritually, this suffering must have
at times been terrible. But there are now strong
grounds for hope of speedy relief and restora
tion, yet not without doubts and misgivings in
the minds of those best acquainted with actual
facts. Still, the country stands as it were, and
waits for the issue. Life and death are in the
hands of Him, who knows what is best and who
doeth all things well.


[Column 1]
LOGAN AND OGDEN CONFERENCES.

	The Relief Society Stake Conference was held
in Logan, Cache County, Saturday and Sunday,
September 3 and 4, Mrs. Libbie B. Benson pre-
siding. President Wm. Preston and Counselor
Card were on the stand, ladies from Salt Lake,
Sisters Eliza R. Snow Smith, E. Howard and
E. B. Wells, and there was a large attendance
of brethren and sisters; the large and commo

[Column 2]
dious building was well fillled, both in the main
hall and galleries. Prest. Preston made a few
exceedingly appropriate and suggestive remarks
on Saturday, On Sunday a Stake organization
was effected of the Young Ladies' Mutual Im-
provement Associations of Cache County. Mrs.
Harriet A. Preston was nominated and sus-
tained as President, Miss Ida Ione Cook and
Mrs. Kenna B. Caine, Counselors, Allie Preston,
Secretary, and Kate Smith, Treasurer. Follow-
ing this, a Stake organization of the Primary
Associations was effected, by electing Mrs. Jane
E. Molen, of Hyde Park, President, Mrs. Ade-
line Barber, Smithfield, and Mrs. Mattie B.
Hanson, of Logan, Counselors, Lavinia Perry,
Secretary, and Ellen Lundberg, Treasurer. Af-
ter the close of the meeting these sisters were
blest and set apart to fill the office and calling
for which each one had been chosen, by Prest.
Preston and his Counselor, L. O. Card. The
Societies and Associations of Cache County are
now fully organized.
	At five o'clock p.m. a Primary Conference
was held in the Tabernacle. A large number of
children were assembled, two or three hundred;
Prest. Preston and other leading brethren were
present, and a large number of sisters. Sister
Eliza R. S. Smith conducted the meeting, and
gave much good instruction to the little folks.
Sisters Wells and Howard addressed them for a
short time. There was some delightful singing
by the children at the close, from a class under
the teaching of Bro. Stevens, about one hun-
dred and fifty joining in the choruses.
	On Monday the sisters drove over to Wells-
ville, held a special meeting at 4 o'clock p.m.,
and Sister E. R. S. Smith organized a Primary
Association with one hundred and two names
enrolled. Mrs. Maria Parkinson was elected
President, Sarah Jones and Emily Baugh, Coun-
selors, Kate Brown, Secretary, Charles Brad-
shaw, Assistant Secretary, and Jane Maughan,
Treasurer.
	On Thursday morning, Sept. 8, Weber Stake
Relief Society Conference convened in the Og-
den Tabernacle, Mrs. Jane S. Richards presid-
ing. Prest. D. H. Peery and Coun. C. F. Mid-
dleton were in the stand, also Mrs. Richards,
Counselor Mrs. H. C. Brown and Mrs. Sarah S.
Richards, President of the Relief Society of
Gentile Valley, and Mrs. Eliza R. S. Smith,
Mrs. E. Howard and Mrs. E. B. Wells, of Salt
Lake City. Sisters were assembled there from
all parts of Weber Stake. Minutes were read,
also written reports. Sister E. R. S. S. ad-
dressed the sisters a few minutes upon subjects
connected with the work in which they were
engaged.
	Prest. Peery spoke in a forcible and impressive
manner on the educating and training of chil-
dren, and gaining intelligence by reading the
news of the day and other kindred subjects,
the bountiful harvest, the signs of the times, &c.
Sisters E. B. W. and Jane S. Richards each
made a few remarks, and meeting adjourned
until afternoon.
	In the afternoon session Sister E. R. S. S. was
the first speaker. She made an eloquent address
on the suffrage, and appealed earnestly to the
ladies to exercise the privilege of the ballot;
many other subjects were also alluded to.
	Sister E. Howard spoke at considerable length
upon plural marriage, domestic life, the growth
of intelligence, and the suffrage in woman's
hands, its influence and power.
	Elder E. S. Richards spoke of the great change
that had taken place in the world since the
question of woman's position had been before
the public, the growth of opinions, the breadth
of intelligence; felt it was not only a blessing to
all, but was essential to the advancement and
progress of the human family that woman's

[Column 3]
political rights should be recognized. The con-
dition of woman now was very different to what
it had been, not only in Utah, where we have
the suffrage, but in several of the States where
they have school suffrage.
	Sister Sarah S. Richards said all the intelli-
gence we gain here we shall take with us, and it
will rise with us in the morning of the resur-
rection. Said, "let us set a good example before
all, speak kind words, give to the poor, and do
our duty in all places; go to the polls and vote,
as we would perform any other duty.
	Sister H. C. Brown made a few spirited re-
marks, and presented the names of the presid-
ing board of the Relief Society to the Confer-
ence, Mrs. Eliza R. Snow Smith, President, Mrs.
Zina D. Young and Elizabeth Ann Whitney,
Counselors.
	Sister E. R. S. Smith then presented the
names of the presiding board of Weber Stake,
who were unanimously sustained. Conference,
closed.
	Friday morning the Conference of the Y. L.
M. I. A. convened at the same place, Mrs. Sarah
A. Herrick presiding. Dr. Romania B. Pratt
and Mrs. Louie B. Felt, of Salt Lake City, were
present. Minutes were read and reports from
the several branch Associations. These reports
showed that good work had been done by the
young ladies. Home reading was also repre-
sented, which gave number of Bible chapters
5,393, Book of Mormon 1,454, Sections in Doc-
trine and Covenants 819, Miscellaneous 5,394.
One Society reported. testimonies borne 140,
chapters in history read in meeting 460, essays
written 12. The speakers who occupied the re-
mainder of the forenoon and the afternoon were
Sisters S A. Herrick, E. R. S. Smith, S. S.
Richards, L. Felt, R. B. Pratt, E. B. Wells,
E. Howard and J. S. Richards, respectively,
who gave excellent instruction to the young la-
dies, urging them to diligence, warning them of
evil and temptation, and encouraging them to
persevere in the way of well-doing.

PRIMARY CONFERENCE.

	On Saturday morning a beautiful sight was
presented—the large Tabernacle nearly filledwith beautiful, intelligent looking children, Mrs.
Josephine R. West presiding. After the exer-
cises of singing and prayer had been conducted,
the children all joining in the hymns, exercises
were rendered by some one or more of the mem-
bers from each Primary represented in the Con-
ference. The children acquitted themselves ex-
ceedingly well in their respective parts, in recit-
ing, singing, or playing. The presidents also
deserve great credit for their perseverance and
tact in bringing them forward as well as they
have done since the organization begun. The
sisters present made some short and interesting
speeches, and asked some questions, which were
very well answered from the audience.
	Mrs. Josephine R. West, who presides over
the P. A. of Weber Stake, spoke to the children
about their Fair, which is to be held in Ogden,
City 23d and 24th of September, in the Fire-
man's Hall. Conference was adjourned, and
the benediction pronounced by Master Johnnie
Hill.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE IN UTAH.

	Our editorial of August 15 called forth from
some of the active workers in woman's suffrage
considerable comment, and we have received
letters from a couple of very intelligent ladies
on the subject. One thing we would say in re-
ply is that although the ladies have had the
privilege of voting in Utah eleven years, yet it
cannot be expected that every one is so far con-


verted to the idea as to be always on hand and
diligent in the performance of this duty, any
more than other duties, which have been better
understood, and are no doubt by many more
highly appreciated. Therefore it becomes neces-
sary to talk a great deal on the subject, and also
to write and publish, "to stir up their pure
minds by way of remembrance" No doubt it
will always have to be done, the masses of the
people are inclined to forgetfulness in regard to
many things. People everywhere are apt to be
unmindful of those things that are not every 
day occurrences; and for that reason, we remark-
ed it would be well to have those telling words,
"Eternal vigilance is the price of liberty,"
framed and hung up in every dwelling.
	Miss Anthony says: "In short it must become
fashionable for women to attend school meetings
as well as the polls—before any considerable
numbers in Utah, or anywhere else, will assert
their constitutional rights." She also says: "I
believe the secret cause of this lack of interest
and consequent effort on the part of women is
their utter hopelessness of making any changes,
however much they may desire them. Men
have so long had absolute control, and though
the right to vote is conceded, every activity of
woman to shape matters in the primary meet-
ings and nominating conventions is still deemed
an obstrusion on her part, and made the subject
of disagreeable comment, in a way that intimi-
dates her from interfering in caucuses, and fail-
ing to shape matters there, it is of little or no
use to rush to the ballot box to help one or the
other set of candidates into office, neither of
which are pledged to the great reforms she deems
most important to the well-being of society."
	In Utah, we beg leave to say to Miss
Anthony and others, that women who 
have taken the liberty (if it be a liberty
to make use of the privilege conceded) to attend
primary meetings, school meetings, or con-
ventions, have been most politely treated, invit-
ed to speak and express opinions. Some have
been placed on nominating committees, and in
many precincts women have been chosen as del-
egates to county conventions, and also have been
chosen as delegates to territorial conventions.
Every office open to woman, she has been al-
lowed to occupy, but the statutes of Utah still
exclude woman from offices of trust or emolu-
ment. It is well known to Miss Anthony, Miss
Gage and others of the leading ladies in the suf-
frage movement, that at two successive sessions
of the Legislature of Utah, a bill has been pre-
sented to remove the only obstacle now in the
way to women's equality before the law in the
government of this Territory. The failure has
been due to the refusal of the Governor to ex-
tend the courtesy of his signature, and thus it
stand to-day. Whether the present incumbent
will be more liberal in his views and allow the
male to be expunged as regards the matter of
holding office, remains to be proved.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Mrs. E. Howard and Mrs. J. S. Richards are
in Brigham City attending the Ladies' Confer-
ences of that Stake of Zion.

	THE Primary Associations of North Ogden
will hold a Children's Fair in that place on
Wednesday, Sept. 21. Many very pretty and
useful articles have been made there for exhibi-
tion. 

	BRIGHAM Young College, in Logan, Cache
Co., Miss Ida Ione Cook Principal, opened on
Monday, Sept. 5, with more pupils than at any
previous commencement, and with a good pros-
pect of being well filled in a few days.


THE Logan Temple is progressing rapidly. It
stands upon a high eminence, and may be seen
from all the surrounding settlements.
	YESTERDAY Mrs. E. R. S. Smith, Phebe Wood-
ruff and E. B. Wells left on a tour through San-
pete County; intended holding meeting at Nephi
last evening, and go on to Moroni to-day, where
the Sisters' Stake Conference is to be held.
	THE large brick building in Ogden City, known
as the Central School, is a very handsome and
commodious structure, and gives Ogden some
prestige in the matter of school houses. We
understand there is an excellent graded school
there, under the management of Prof. Monch.
	THE National Citizen and Ballot Box for Au-
gust contains many newspaper notices from the
very best papers published of the "History of
Woman's Suffrage from 1830 to 1880." As we
have not seen a copy of the book yet, we beg to
be excused from expressing an opinion (by the
by we are notified there is one on the way for
our sanctum), though we believe from our know-
ledge of the subject and of the authors, it is a
book that might be safely recommended to all,
both for home libraries and public ones also.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	SISTERS Sarah M. Kimball and Margaret P.
Young attended the annual meeting of the Re-
lief Society of Brighton Ward on Thursday,
Sept. 8. Mrs. Mary A. Hazon presiding. 

	THE Secretaries of the Primary Associations,
of Salt Lake Co. are expected to forward a semi-
annual report to the Stake Secretary, Vilate C.
Young, in good time for the Conference.

	THE Stake Secretary of Y. L. M. I. A. wishes
all reports from the several secretaries forwarded
as soon as posssble, that they may be in good
time for the Conference Saturday, September 24,
in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall.

	THE Conference of the Primary Associations
of Salt Lake Stake will be held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall on Saturday morning, Sept. 24,
and it is earnestly desired there should be as
large an attendance of the Associations as possi-
ble from all the wards and settlements.

	IN answer to the many inquiries, made con-
cerning the little book prepared by Sister E. R.
S. Smith for the use of the Primary Associa-
tions, entitled “Questions and Answers,” we
would say, it is in the hands of the publishers at
the “Juvenile Instructor” office, and due notice
will be given when it is ready for sale.

	SECRETARY Sarah M. Kimball desires the
Stake Secretaries to forward semi-annual reports
as early as possible, other wise a complete general
report cannot be prepared for the October Con-
ference, proximo. Morgan and Bear Lake are
the only Stakes from which reports have been
received up to this date, Tuesday, Sept. 13, 1881.

	THE Secretary of the Central Board Y. L. M.
I. A. specially desires Stake Secretaries of Y. L.
M. I. A. in all the various Stakes of Zion to
send full reports immediately to her, that she
may prepare complete statistics for the coming
October Conference. Those who have sent re-
ports from date of organization, need only fur-
nish from date of last report. Direct to Louie
Wells, Office WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Salt Lake
City, Utah. Please be prompt, and give special
attention to all particulars.

	BY courtesy of the Salt Lake Herald Publish-
ing Company, we have received the Fair
Pamphlet, containing over 70 pages of cuts and
lists of prizes to be awarded at the coming fair
of the Deseret and Agricultural Manufacturing.


Society, commencing on the 3rd day of October,
1881. The book is got up in a neat and compre-
hensive style. Ladies' Work on page 55 includes
almost everything, and it is to be hoped that the
young ladies of Salt Lake City and vicinity will
make a good showing of these classes of work;
and also in art and other departments in which
they have an opportunity to compete.


﻿OBITUARY.

	Died, in the 10th Ward, Salt Lake City, Au-
gust 18th, 1881, of cholera infantum and teeth-
ing, Don Carlos Bailey, son of S. H. B. and
Mary C. Smith, aged 9 months and 27 days. His
last words were “mamma, mamma.”

Don Carlos, thou wert dear and precious;
	Thou hast gone in peace to rest.
But again I'll have my treasure
	When “mamma” is spared the best. 

Don Carlos, now I say farewell;
	My love for thee death cannot sever;
And when we meet in heaven to dwell,
	We'll meet to part no more forever.
					MARY C. SMITH.


﻿LYDIA GOMBER.

	In the 16th Ward of this city, Wednesday,
July 27th, 1881, about midnight, Miss Lydia
Gomber passed peacefully away to her rest, after
a lingering and painful illness of some months.
	Sister Lydia was born in what was then known
as Albany township, Berks County, Pennsylva-
nia, January 9, 1806. She was baptized into the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter day Saints, in
the summer of 1857, in the city of Philadelphia,
by Elder Angus M. Cannon, who was then
President of the Conference in that locality. The
lady emigrated to Utah in 1859, bringing with
her a younger sister, and has resided in this 
city ever since. Her death leaves her sister en-
tirely alone. The two lived together for many
years. The separation was painful, but He who
tempers the wind to the shorn lamb will not for-
get the lonely and sorrowing ones, and will min-
ister consolation in the hours of deepest trial.
	The funeral was held at the residence of the
deceased, on Friday, July 29th, 1881, and the
most intimate friends and some acquaintances
of the lady were present. The Bishop's Coun-
selor, Theodore McKean, took charge of the ser-
vices, and good music was furnished by the 16th
Ward choir. The speakers were Bishop Edward
Hunter and Counselor D. H. Wells, both of
whom had known Sister Gomber for many
years, and testified to her excellent character,her
sterling integrity and many virtues. She was a
woman of few words, but sound in her judg-
ment and had great energy and perseverance,
and an earnest desire to help in building up the
kingdom of God upon the earth. Her faith was
firm, and she died in the full hope of a glorious
resurrection.
	May the divine consolation of the Holy Spirit
rest down upon her aged sister, who is left to
mourn, and may she realize the truth of these
precious lines:
	"When thro' the deep waters I call thee to go,
	The rivers of sorrow shall not thee o'er flow;
	For I will be with thee, thy troubles to bless,
	And sanctify to thee thy deepest distress."
								E. B. W.


INDUSTRIAL PRIMARY FAIR.

	The Children's Fair for the Primary Associa-
tions of Salt Lake County will be held in the
Social Hall in this city, commencing on Thurs-
day, the 22d inst., and continue three days. It
will be held under the auspices of the President,
Mrs. E. C. Clawson, and her assistants. On


Tuesday and Wednesday, September 20 and 21,
it is expected all the articles prepared for the ex-
hibition will be brought in, ticketed with the
name and age of the child, and the Ward, or
place, to which he or she belongs. Such articles
as bread, cake, pie, preserves, etc., also vegeta-
bles or flowers, must be brought in on the last
day. It is anticipated that the President, or one
of her Counselors, of each Association, will take
charge of her respective department in the Fair,
in order to prevent any confusion. Price of ad-
mission will be, adults ten cents, children five
cents.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTICE.

	Secretaries of the various Primary Associa-
tions are requested to send reports to their re-
spective Stake Secretaries, who are earnestly
desired to forward Stake Reports immediately,
to be presented at the October Conference.
Stake Secretaries who have furnished complete
reports from date of organization, need only send
from date of former statistics. All others will
forward full particulars from date of organiza-
tion.
					LILLIE FREEZE,
	Secretary Central Board Primary Association.
Salt Lake City.


[Column 1]

R. S. Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

BEAR LAKE STAKE.

	The Relief Societies and Primary Associa-
tions of the Bear Lake Stake held a Confer-
ence at Ovid on the 27th and 28th of August.
The attendance was very good, and we were
much blessed with the presence of the good
Spirit.
	We were favored with the company of Sis-
ters M. I. Horne and E. S. Taylor from Salt
Lake City. Their instructions to the sisters,
both young and old, were very appropriate
and remarkably clear, and will doubtless be
long remembered.
	The Young Ladies' Associations have for
some time past been holding their Conferences
in conjunction with the Young Men's M. I.
Associations, but they were advised to meet in
Conference hereafter with the Relief Societies.
The reports given by the Ward Presidents
were generally encouraging, and showed that
much interest was taken by the sisters in as-
sisting to accomplish the purposes of our Hea-
venly Father.
	President Wm. Budge also favored us with
his company during both days and made some
very interesting repmarks.
	Presidents Julia Lindsay and Elizabeth Col-
lings made some instructive remarks, each ex-
pressing their good feelings and satisfaction
with the meetings, and that there were present
so many brethren to encourage them in their
labors.
	Sister Annie Laker, President of the Pri-
mary Associations, and Counselor E. Pugmire
and others also occupied some time in making
some very kind and profitable remarks.
	We had altogether a pleasant and encourag-
ing time.
	JULIA BUDGE, Cor. Secy.

	The Ladies' regular semi-monthly meeting
in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms convened
as usual Saturday afternoon, Sept. 10th, at 2
p.m., Mrs. M. Isabella Horne presiding.
	Sister Horne was the first speaker. She re-
ferred to the recent visit of herself and Sister
E. S. Taylor to Bear Lake Valley; spoke of
the interest the brethren manifested there in
leaving their harvesting and coming over 20
miles to attend the sisters' two days Confer-

[Column 2]

ence, which was held at Ovid; the brethren
built a bowery in which to hold the meetings.
Sister Taylor, when with her, was taken sick, and
she held meetings at Bloomington, St. Charles
and Liberty, without her help. Said she knew
of no other young ladies more wide awake than
the President and her two counselors of the Y.
L. M. I. A. of Bear Lake Stake; gave much
good spiritual instruction.
	Minutes of Primary Associations of the 11th
and 20th Wards were read.
	Sister Ellen C. S. Clawson made some re-
marks and announced that the Primary Fair
would be held in the Social Hall, Sept. 22, 23
and 24. Said she would like each ward or
settlement designated by its own banner and
in charge of its respective president. There
would be some considerable expenses, and
should charge 10 cents for adults and 5 cents
for children. Would like all articles brought
in the Tuesday and Wednesday previous. "If
we have a Fair next year, we shall give a prize
to the little girl who will make the best bread."
	Sister M. W. Wilcox made a few remarks and
said she realized the judgments of God were
being poured upon the earth; rejoiced in the
principles of the gospel.
	Mrs. M. P. Young said let us speak of the
good in each other and bury those things that
are evil; it is good to treasure up precious
things.
	Sister P. Kimball thought the sovereign of
the throne of England did not enjoy the peace
within her soul that was enjoyed by the daugh-
ters of Zion, the hand-maidens of the Lord.
"Look at our homes and fields. Would we
have thought when this Church was organized
of the positions women occupy to-day. My
duties are among the daughters of Zion. Some-
times I look beyond the veil toward those who
have gone before us, and wish to live to do a
work in the Temple for those who were mine
before the gospel came to me.
	Sister E. S. Taylor said she could not add
much to what had been said by Sister Horne
concerning the visit north, but felt that the
country people were very diligent; said also
she feared many of the Saints would be slum-
bering when the Bridegroom came, like the
foolish virgins. By our works would we be
judged.
	Sisters Ann Brimley, Sinah Bishop, Caro-
line Raleigh, Martha B. Young, L. Greene
Richards and Julia Howe each made a few in-
teresting remarks and bore faithful testimo-
nies of the truth.
	Meeting closed by singing. Benediction by
Sister Julia Howe.

TOOELE STAKE

	Mrs. Mary A. Freeze and Miss Mattie Horne,
of this city, attended the Ladies' Conference
of Tooele Stake, Saturday and Sunday, on
the last day they were joined by Mrs. Rachel
R. Grant and Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, also of
this city.
	On Saturday morning, September the
10th, the Primary Conference was held
was held, many brethren being present. Min-
utes of the previous Conference were read, also
written reports from the adjacent settlements,
followed by exercises from the children, among
which was a list of very suitable and interest-
ing questions, which were promptly answered
by the little folks. The best of order prevailed
during the meeting.
	In the afternoon, the Relief Society
held their Conference in the Meeting
House in Tooele, presided over by Pres. Mrs.
M. A. Hunter. The brethren were in atten-
dance and encouraged the sisters greatly. Min-
utes of previous Conference and reports were
read, and the various branch Societies were
represented verbally. The officers of the Cen-
tral Stake organization of Relief Society were

[Column 3]

sustained by the Conference. The remainder
of the time was occupied in speaking on sub-
jects connected with Relief Society work,
storing grain, etc.
	The Stake Conference Y. L. M. I. A. con-
vened in the evening. An excellent spirit and
feeling prevailed, and quite young ladies, who
were called upon to speak, acquitted themselves
admirably. Minutes and reports were very
interesting, and showed that the Associations
were in good condition. Many young brethren
attended the meeting and seemed especially in-
terested.
	The next morning the sisters from Salt Lake
City attended the Sunday School, and after
listening to the usual exercises, addressed the
children. The Sunday School was very in-
teresting indeed, and the children seemed to
be making rapid improvement.
	In the afternoon, after the Sacrament was
administered, the Relief Society Conference
was continued. Sisters Grant, Kimball, Freeze
and Horne were invited to speak, and much
good instruction was given to mothers, and to
the young people. There was a large congre-
gation assembled, and a good spirit was plainly
manifest. The sisters returned home feeling
well pleased with the visit and the good which
had been accomplished.


THE INFLUENCES OF HOME.

	What tender emotions cling about the word
home! What depths of human feeling are
stirred by the ba[-]e mention of the word!
Home is the place to which one ever turns in-
stinctively in times of trial, of sorrow, or ad-
versity. "Home is home, be it ever so homely,"
is one of the truest of homely phrases. Home
should be a place of happiness; that is, such
happiness as mortals may enjoy in this life; and
when it is really so, how doubly precious and
significant is the term. Home is said to be
where the heart is, and home is not home if
peace does not dwell there, and tranquility and
such influences as promote and strengthen the
growth of virtue and the elevation of charac-
ter. Home to us seems a real place of dwell-
ing, not a temporary shelter, which may be
changed every month; such is not THE HOME
one can turn to with strength of affection, and
cling to as the foundation of character. Home
is the place with which we were familiar in
the days of our youth, when we experienced
the joys and sorrows, the mortifications and
disappointments of childhood; where we were
taught the principles which tended to exalt
and strengthen character. The very nature
of one's surroundings have the most powerful
tendency over them, and the effect of scenery
upon character is a noticeable feature in the
history of nations. Those who dwell in cer-
tain localities partake of the nature of the
country, it is inherent in their very being, and
develop certain characteristics that impress
all their after life. Much depends upon home
discipline, the habits inculcated with tender
years, the principles taught at the mother's
knee, the impression made in such a way, at
times of quiet thought and restfulness, are al-
most ineffaceable throughout all time.
	Confidence in the home among the inmates
is one of the firmest pillars of strength in the
structure of the character of the young. The
father and mother must have the confidence of
the child, if they would keep him from the
paths of evil, for however pure the home may
be, evil exists outside, and the moment the
child steps out from that home influence, he
must meet it. It is for this the little child
must be strengthened, and in no way can he so
well be protected from, or helped in resisting
evil, as by having the full confidence of the
parents, to go to father or mother in any
doubt, or when tempted to do wrong


If the child feels there is perfect sympathy
or harmony between father and mother, there
will be a greater power for good, [---] organ-
ization of that child. Those who do no[----]
to have settled homes, but live in hotels or
lodgings, have very little idea, it seems to me,
of the impression made upon character by the
social influences of home and its appointments
and surroundings.
	Mothers cannot be too careful of the home-
life; children are very keen-eyed, very watch-
ful. They soon discover any discrepancy, any
lack of duty or respect from any one member
of the family towards another, and although
there are none of us perfect in this life; in fact
all are very imperfect, yet it is much better to
show a spirit of humility and forbearance
even towards our children than to attempt to
conceal or disguise that which is likely to mis-
lead or destroy confidence in the family rela-
tions.
	I do not think too much can be said of home
influences, for it is the homes of the people
that elevate the nation. We can never attain
any great degree of progression, as a people,
without neat, orderly, healthy, well-regulated
homes; those countries where strife, confusion
and oppression are the ruling elements have
miserable homes.
	The more refined the home,the more intense-
ly cultivated in heart and soul the inmates of
that household, and all who associate there
partake of that refining, elevating, purifying
influence, and the dwellers in that home carry
that elevation into other homes.

	"The world has nothing to bestow;
	From our own selves our joys must flow,
	And that dear hut—our home."

	Let mothers encourage their sons to have
homes of their own, be they ever so lowly and
humble; if love be the inmate, if sweet peace
and contentment sit with the happy pair by the
fireside; if the young couple work together to
promote each other's interest and enjoyment, the
poorest dwelling is a happier home than the
grandest palatial residence of the rich without
these essential elements of human happiness.

	"Domestic happiness! thou only bliss
	Of paradise that has survived the fall."

	How man are there who have lived a long
and useful life, who began with almost nothing,
but by energy and perseverance made them-
selves a home, perhaps built it with their own
hands, planted the trees, and watched them
year after year as they grew to maturity, and
as time rolled on, gathered little by little
the comforts and elegancies of prosperity in a
home where in the evening of life they may
rest after the struggles with labor and toil are
over.						AUNT EM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 63


HOME.

	Home, is the place to become refined, the
place to cultivate the mind, the place where
peace should always reign, and love and virtue
have dominion. Oh, how that one word Home,
strikes upon the tender chords of affection and
seems to awaken a memory of all the scenes of
life through which we have passed. Home
the place of our birth, the place where life
began, the place where we spent childhood's
happy hours, and many of the joys of youth.
'Twas also there where our sorrows began,
where we saw our innocent, childlike day-
dreams of the future vanish away, and we
learned the first lesson of the realites of life;
'twas there our characters were formed, and to
home we owe our reputation [--] was there we
learned to lisp our first prayer and to place
our trust in him, who rules and governs all
things, 'twas there we began to exercise the
talents which the Lord had given us, and our
minds began to expand and we began to grasp
after knowledge and understanding, 'twas there


<f strewn="" alashas="" oar-joy="" ,is,="" jncr.easednur="" sjorri)="" yjvnmu="" i,-="" -="" retnexhbef="" fhfit="" their;="" -stem's="" are="" jxnyyyi="" .though="" --they="" mayh.enonceafedbeneatlx="" )qauti="" ful;="" leaves.="" c...........................xij="" ei="" ay.="" i<="" div="">in youth that we looked forward with bright
hopes, to womanhood and thought that when
we arrive at that point all would be pleasure
and happiness. But as we advanced on the
journey of life and drew nearer to that era in
woman's life we began to realize that roses grew
on briery shrubs and with the flowers we found
the thorns. As it is through all the journey of
life, joy and sorrow are intermingled together,
and where good as well as evil always presents
itself but now as we glance back over the beauti-
ful hilltops of memory to behold the home of our
childhood and pathway of youth nothing but
the beautiful flowers and evergreens appear.
Memory has cast over the pathway a carpet
of green and all nature is covered with beauti-
ful foliage as we look back 'tis grand to be-
hold. Yet we know the thorns were also there,
for as we passed along they often pierced our
tender flesh and sometimes even our hearts and
had it not have been for that good spirit, the
guardian angel who bade us take courage and
live for something more noble and sublime than
this world could produce, we might have shrunk
from duty and sunk down by the way side to
spend our lives in folly seeking the vain things
of this life which would have produced, a multi-
tude of thorns to pierce us in eternity, but
those little trials that so sorely vexed us have
all been for our good and will no doubt prove
a blessing to us throughout all our existence,
and again as we look forward to gaze upon
scenes yet future hope brightens every object
that presents itself to view.
	Our future home appears in the distance
brightened with fresh rays of sunshine very
elegantly adorned and all the luxuries of life
abound there, the path appears to be strewn
with flowers we quicken our pace and hasten
on to obtain that long wished for treasure but
alas! as our joy is increased our sorrow is mul-
tiplied. So remember young friends as you
proceed on the journey of life, and extend your
hand to grasp those roses the pleasures of life,
remember that their stems are briery, though
they may be concealed beneath beautiful leaves.
								L. E. W.


ARTISTIC NEEDLE WORK.

	Among other revivals of the olden time we
notice that of artistic needle-work. It was
the favorite occupation many years ago of fe-
male royalty and ladies of high degree. Years
were spent in ornamental tapestry, and to excel
in work of this sort was deemed one of the
highest accomplishments. It is now being re-
vived as an industrial occupation for women.
We clip the following notice from one of our
Exchanges, which may be interesting to those
who admire exquisite work with the needle:
	"The New York Sun says that very few
persons are aware of the extent to which art
needlework and art decoration are now culti-
vated in that city. The Society of Associated
Artists, which includes among its members
some of the best-known names of American
painters and sculptors, now opens a wide field
for the employment of women of artistic taste
and talent. The enormous prices that are
cheerfully paid by men of large wealth for the
beautifying of their city and country homes,
has made it quite worth while for artists of no
mean reputation to turn their thoughts from
the production of unsalable oil and water-color
pictures to the frescoing of ceilings, the design-
ing of wall-papers, and, above all, to the execu-
tion of picturesque hangings and curtains for 
theatres, club-rooms and private dwellings up
town. The hangings and wall decorations for
the drawing-room of Cornelius Vanderbilt's
new house are already in the hands of Louis
C. Tiffany's large corps of lady embroiderers,
under the management and superintendance of
Mrs. Wheeler and Miss Cutler. For this one


room alone Mr. Vanderbilt has agreed to pay
from $8,000 to $10,000, the magnitude of which
sum will give some idea of the expenditure of
time, talent, and labor involved. The hang-
ings of the Union League Club House and the
curtains of the Madison Square Theatre, which
is, perhaps, the most beautiful specimen of art
needlework in the world, were designed and
executed by the above named ladies, with the
assistance of the band of artists who work
under them, To Mr. Lafarge has been con-
fided the manufacture of the portieres and cur-
tains for Mr. Vanderbilt's library and dining
room, and the full sized cartoons elaborately
drawn and painted, which are to serve as mod-
els to the ladies who are to reproduce them on
silks, satins and velvets, will soon be ready for
inspection in Miss Tillinghast's studio.—Ex.


INTERNATIONAL MEDICAL CON-
GRESS.

	The International Medical Congress com-
menced its sittings by a meeting in St. James's
Hall, on August 3d. With that contemptuous
gallantry towards women which is the distinc-
tive feature of the English branch of the Med-
ical Profession (though even in England there
are some honoarable exceptions), it was express-
ly ruled that ladies should only be invited by
the reception committee to attend the social
meetings, and rigidly excluded from the sec-
tions. We have no special objection to
the exclustion of the general public, pro-
vided such exclusion be impartially carried
out—though, even in this case, many of the
sections treat of questions which would be
deeply interesting to the non-professional hear-
er. Section XIII. in State Medicines had sub-
jects, every one of which is of general import-
ance, such as how to prevent the diffusion of
various diseases from country to country, and
Section VIII., which deals with mental dis-
eases, discussed problems which greatly con-
cern all philanthropists, such as new legal codes
as part of asylum treatment, cottage and vil-
lage treatment, the civil condition of the in-
sane, and the question of special asylums for
insane criminals. If, however, the Profession
claim their right to exclude the non-profession-
al public, they have no right to carry this ex-
clusion to the lawfully-graduated and diplo-
maed women doctors. This is the seventh In-
ternational Congress; the preceding six have
been held in foreign countries, and have ad-
mitted properly qualified women to be present
—acknowledging that they had equal know-
ledge of and similar interest in the subjects
discussed, as properly qualified men. They
had followed the same studies, passed the same
examinations, and the scuse of indecorum,
therefore, which would intrude if the unquali-
fied public were permitted to be listeners of the
debates, could not in this case be felt. Nothing,
as H.R.H. the Prince of Wales remarked in
his opening address, so promotes the increase
of scientific knowledge, as [---] in these
congresses: the practitioners of each nation by
attending the congress would have opportuni-
ties of acquiring knewledge that would be of
considerable value. Why, then, are women
doctors to be excluded from these benefits,
which it has been found by experience on the
continent, they can profitably enjoy.
	A protest was signed by all the ladies who
are registered medical practitioners, setting for-
ward their claim to form part of the congress,
but it met with no response. A story is cur-
rent in London that at the preliminary meeting
of the executive committee, the majority were
disposed to follow the precedent in this mat-
ter, but were dissuaded by Sir William Jenner,
who declared that he was empowered to re-
move the name of the Queen as patron of the
congress if ladies were admitted. The story


is not worthy of credence. It is likely enough
that Sir William Jenner made a most empha-
tic protest against the admission of ladies, as
he, happily without effect, strenuously opposed
the admission of female students to the exam-
inations of the London University; but it is
absolutely incredible that he had any authori-
ty to use Her Majesty's name to influence the
congress.
	The arbitrary manner in which this congress
has been summoned can do nothing to retard
the continually improving status of women
doctors. It is probably the last occasion on
which they will be excluded, and it will be re-
membered as a stupid protest against the ad-
vancing toleration and liberality of the age,
the expiring effort of bigotry and high-hand-
ed trades-unionism.—Englishwoman's Review


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	The devil tempts all; but the idle man
tempts the devil.—Italian Proverb.
	Language is not an instrument into which if
a fool breathe, it will make melody.—Godwin
Smith.
	It is strange that of all posssble tasks, sim-
ply to be what we are should prove not the
easiest, but infinitely the hardest.
	One of the most effectual ways of pleasing
and of making oneself loved is to be cheerful;
joy softens more hearts than tears.
	Faith, like light, should ever be simple and
unbending; while love, like warmth, should
beam forth on every side and bend to every
necessity.
	Our custom and habits are like the ruts in
roads; the wheels of life settle into them, and
we jog along through the mire because it is too
much trouble to get out of it.
	Depend upon it, in the midst of all the sci-
ence about the world and its ways, and all the
ignorance of God and His greatness, the man
or woman who can say, "Thy will be done,"
with the true heart of giving up, is nearer the
secret of things than the geologist and theolo-
gist.—George Macdonald.
	ENCOURAGEMENT.—Whenever you can con-
scientiously encourage any one, do so. You
would not leave those plants in your window-
boxes without water or refuse to open the shut-
ters that the sunlight might fall upon them;
but you leave some human flower to suffer from
want of appreciation or the sunlight of encour-
agement. There are a few hardy souls that can
struggle on stony soil—shrubs that can wait
for the dew and the sunbeams, vines that will
climb without kindly training—but only a few.
Utter the kind word when you can; give the
helping praise when you see that it is deserved.
The thought, that "no one cares and no one
knows," blights many a bud of promise. Whe-
ther it be the young artist at his easel, the
workman at his bench, the boy at his mathe-
matical problems, or the little girl at her piano,
give what praise you can, for many a one has
fallen by the way for the want of that word of
encouragement which would have "stablished
their feet."


[Column 1]
DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
[image of dentures]
Special attention paid
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:—MAIN ST. OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE
P O. BOX 541

[Column 2]
PROSPECTUS OF
THE CONTRIBUTOR,
Representing the Young Men and Women
of Utah.

VOLUME THREE.

	THE Third Volume of the Contributor will
commence with October, 1881, number.
Each number will contain Thirty-two Pages of
choice reading matter. The volume will make
a fine library book of nearly Four Hundred
Pages.
	The success attending the first and second
years of this magazine justifies the prediction
that the new volume will not be excelled by any
home publication. The following are a few lead-
ing features that will characterize Volume
Three:

SERMONS AND WRITINGS OF THE PROPHET
JOSEPH SMITH.

	These will appear in each number, being care-
fully selected from the discourses and composi-
tions delivered during the last four years of the
Prophet's Life. They are upon a variety of im-
portant doctrinal subjects, and are full of light
and truth, communicated in the most thrilling
sentences, which distinguished the delivery of
their inspired author.
	Every Latter-day Saint should be familiar
with the sayings of the Prophet.
	In connection with the sermons will be pub-
lished short Biographical Sketches of Joseph
and Hyrum Smith. Illustrated with

TWO MAGNIFICENT STEED PLATE
ENGRAVINGS.

	These engravings are said by the most compe-
tent judges to be the finest and most accurate
portraits of the Prophet and Patriarch ever pub-
lished. They are full page pictures, printed in
the most artistic manner, and are alone worth
half the price of subscription charged for the
magazine.
	The volume will contain Historical Sketches
of the Buchanan Campaign of 1857, being an ac-
count of the causes and notable incidents of the
Echo Canyon War, taken from original docu-
ments. There is no epoch of the history of Utah
more romantic and interesting than the period
treated upon in this series.
	Historical, Biographical, Scientific, Literary
and Miscellaneous matter, from the pens of
Utah's young people and other writers, will add
to the value of the new volume.
	The Department devoted to Association Intel-
ligence will be much improved, containing, be-
sides minutes of important meetings, Queries
and Answers, Brief Correspondence, Model Pro-
grammes, etc.
	All the members of Associations are requested
to employ this department in asking any proper
questions that they may desire.
	Officers of Associations are urgently solicited
to take an active interest in the Magazine, writ-
ing and procuring suitable matter for its col-
umns, and doing all in their power to extend its
circulation among the people.
	Presidents of the Y. M. M. I. A. will please
act as agents.
	Terms of subscription, invariably in advance:

One year—including Engravings,...Two Dollars.
Six Months,..................One Dollar and a Half.

	Steel Engravings of Joseph and Hyrum Smith,
India mounted on cards, 9 x 12 inches, for fram-
ing, One Dollar and a Half per pair.
	Agents getting up clubs of Fifteen Annual
Subscribers will receive an extra copy and a pair
of Engravings for framing, free.
	Associations getting up clubs of Ten will re-
ceive an extra copy free.
	Volumes One and Two, handsomely bound.
For sale at the Office. Price $2.50.
	Address—JUNIUS F. WELLS, Editor and
Publisher, Salt Lake City, Utah. P. O Box 305.
	Office, first door north of Z. C. M. I.
	Remittances should be made by P. O. Money
Order or Registered Letter.

FOR SALE

 Home-Made SILK,
AT
CUTLER'S COMMISSION STORE.

[Column 3]
A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

PALACE OF FASHION, NO. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes; Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP.
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
	OFFICE and RESIDENCE over Contributor Office, north of
Z. C. M. I.
	Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children as special-
ties.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS.
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obe found in the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited
GEO. DUNFORD.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Spring and Summer Goods. ☜
DAVID JAMES
TINNER, CAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED
S. P. TEASDEL.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE—Up Stairs, Old Constitution Building.
RESIDENCE—Six Blocks East of Post Office, South side
of street.
☞ Special study has been given to Obstetrics, Diseases of
Women, and DISEASES of the EYE and EAR.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 10.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 1, 1881.	NO. 9


MRS. GARFIELD.

Noble, honored, yet afflicted!
	As this morn I bow the knee,
From my heart unto our Father,
	Flows a pleading prayer for thee.

Though a nation sorrows with thee,
	Thousands all to thee unknown;
None can share thy secret burdens,
	Thy great loss is thine alone!

Ne'er were faith and courage needed
	More by man than by thee now;
Not e'en by the fallen chieftain
	Over whom you weepling bow.

Only He who "feeds the ravens"
	Can bestow that peace and rest,
Which may soothe the deep emotions
	Of a soul like thine oppressed.
Surely, surely He will aid thee
	All thy griefs to bravely bear;
Little children, pure as angels,
	Lisp to-day thy name in prayer.

Every wife and every mother,
	Bowing at the sacred shrine,
With a sister's tender yearnings,
	Feels her own heart bleed with thine!

	LULA.
Salt Lake City, Sept. 20, 1881.


[Column 1]

MAKE HOME BEAUTIFUL.

	The young ladies of to-day have many more
advantages and opportunities for cultivating
those little artistic talents which so beautify
and embellish the home, than did our parents.
There are now teachers in every branch of art,
and materials to work with.
	Among the most delicate and beautiful
branches of art may be classed hand embroid-
ery. All sorts of beautiful flowers, birds and
unique designs can be made with the needle
and silk on curtains, lambrequins, table and
chair covers, &c. Nothing can make a prettier
present than some little embroidered scarf,
handkerchief or nick-nack, with the words:
"It is not much, but I worked it myself;" and
you will find it highly appreciated. Among
the wealthy the drapery of rooms is all em-
broidered in beautiful colors, and at present
this class of work is quite fashionable as well
as beautiful. Ladies now-a-days are also tak-
ing a great deal to drawing and painting, in
both water colors and oil, and here in this
country, where the landscapes all around are
most lovely and charming, one would have
abundant advantage and encouragement for the
art. How exceedingly delightful it would be,
when out on a May-walk, or summer picnic, to
be able to sit down and sketch the scene you
visited, and returning home finish it up in the
life-like colors for your portfolio, as a remem-
brance of the pleasant day.
	Music is not less attractive aud fascinating
because it is mentioned among the last, but, on
the contrary, it seems to me it must be the
most delightful of all the arts. How happy it
must make one feel to be able to bring pleasure
and joyousness through the medium of the
voice, and how thankful that one ought to be
to his Creator; that he has such a gift. Yet
this talent, as well as the others, needs cultivat-
ing. The voice may be beautiful and clear,
but cultivation gives it a finish that renders a
naturally good voice capable of the most en-
chanting sounds.
	Elocution is a talent that until lately has

[Left Margin "Annie N. C[---]"]

[Column 2]

been neglected here, and there are many who
might make very good readers. It is indeed a
gift for one to be able to bring out the true
meaning, strong force and deep pathos of a
beautiful poem, and it is a delightful pastime
for oneself, as well as pleasing to one's friends,
to be able to read well and understandingly.
'Tis a pity that this talent has not been culti-
vated to a greater extent among our young
people, for the study is in itself most beautiful
and fascinating.
	My dear reader, would you like to visit a
friend with me to-day, and see her lovely little
home? Here it is; and the eye seems rested as
we enter and gaze at the pretty things around.
My friend, always busy, must keep us waiting
a little while for her coming, so we will amuse
ourselves by glimpsing around at the little par-
lor. First, here is the book-case—a neat, ele-
gant little piece of furniture of ebony and
glass, and completely filled with a miscellaneous
gathering of books, all the poets of course, a
few nice novels, such as Charlotte Bronte might
write, some fine histories, the best essays, per-
haps Macaulay's, Johnson's, Emerson's; beauti-
ful little books on art, travels and writers, and
all those treasures of the pen that a fine nature
would wish to possess. In the window is a
flower stand, filled with the most delicate and
rare flowers, and most of them in bloom; the
ivy creeps around the wires of the stand and
up higher, till it reaches the curtains and
forms a verdant wreath for the window case-
ment. In another nook rests a guitar; oh,
how we love the sweet strains that issue forth
from this little instrument! sometimes one
might almost think it had a soul, so touching
are the sounds. Further on, in the corner,
there is the piano, open of course, for in this
home it is for use, not show, and our friend
plays so beautifully; don't think she is a mas-
ter, but her music is quite thrilling, and her
selections are so sweet and pretty; simple it is
true, but, nevertheless, they are the kind that
touch the heart. And here, what is this? An
easel? Yes; and on it an unfinished picture;
nothing much, only a cluster of pure calla lillies,
yet how lovely and natural. The chairs are
all covered with fine embroidery, and little
trinkets adorn the shelf and tables that this
fair hand has made. But here, most beautiful
of all, comes our friend. It is needless to des-
cribe her, the room has done so already. We
were sure of what our greeting would be the
moment we entered, for no home could possibly
have other than the sweetest of women to care
for it.
	Yet, don't think for one moment that this
dear little woman, who cultivates all these
pretty, artistic talents, knows nothing of the
dire necessaries of life; oh, no, she is a capital
housekeeper, her bread, cake, preserves, pies,
&c., are the nicest you ever tasted, and I would
like to have you test them, but there is no time
now, for we have already stayed too long in
this enchanted spot, and the shadows of night
are gathering, and as the stars peep forth from
their hiding places and the flowers hold forth
their leaves for the sparkling dew, I bid you
good-night, with the hope that you will culti-
vate these lovely things, that more homes may
compare with the one just left.
	ANNIE.


IF every person would be half as good as he
expects his neighbor to be, what a heaven this
world would be.—Luther Norris.


DISPOSITION.

	Is there anything so beautiful as a lovely
disposition. In my mind there is no way in
the world in which one can do more good, and
surely nothing that can make all around us so
happy, as to be always kind and pleasant. It
is nonsense for any person to say that he does
not know when he has done a good act; for our
Father has made our bodies so sensitive that
we, as well as the one cheered, always feel the
good influence. When we see we have made
some one happier, that perhaps by one little
word we have raised a fellow being and kin-
dled the fire of ambition within him; if we see
a face grow brighter for a kind word from us,
do we not feel it all through our frame? We
feel, oh! so happy, hardly knowing the reason
why. How many times have we heard people
say, "If I could only do some good in the
world;" "If I only had something to give,"
and the poorest of us can give kind words and
pleasant looks, and these are oftentimes needed
more than the filling of the purse. What if
we do sometimes feel tired, feel that everything
has gone wrong, then is the very time when we
should try to be good-natured, and in that way
throw off the depressing spirit.
	The best way in the world to overcome this
feeling is to comfort others and try to feel
that we are doing some good to those around
us. If it is only to make some sweet little
friend feel that she is not alone in the world,
and that she has some one who knows and can
<hta1jrw many="" afching="" heart3="" hi’e-been="" soothed'.by="" confiding="" their="" troubles="" to="" somerdear="" friend,="" who:="" could="" feel;.deeply="" and="" realize="" sofrow.="" did="" ever="" any="" one="" go="" away="" from="" such;-a;="" friend:="" without="" :saying,‘i="" feel="" that="" a="" weight="" has="" lbeen-="" lifted="" off="" ray="" heart;-:and="" that.="" ii="" have-="" parted="" witbvhalf="" inyf="" sorrow.="" "wet="" can="" soon.="" cheer!those;who="" :are.,sad="" fand="" lonely,="" if="" wdgo.="" thdarightiway="" wqrk;="" comnaeiicing="" by="" a.little:="" svinpifthy="" .and="" thafrygraddally="" turriingvithe-="" thaught3jintoh)="" brighter="" ;channdl.="" i="" daresay-="" after="" ai="" wliilo;="" ,they="" willinbt="" "think="" it="" was:so:bad!="" olafter="" allbayhoicari="" belp.iadmiririg="" person,="" of="" this="" .kind?'="" noil="" onbi="" us.-="" they="" are="" pure="" in="" motives="" wei="" loves="" them="" as:="" sbon="" aaitbey-="" known;:="" id="" us.n="" -bow.beautiful-="" ,it.is="" al-="" ways="" buyable="" tor="" light!="" up="" the="" fades:="" bf="" our="" friends="" makb.ithem="" happidr="" byourpres-="" ence;="" -bd'aule="" lodk="" cnl="" the:briht="" bide!="" picture="" causes="" smiles,="" beam="" where="" .="" therewerei="" tdars="" beforetrrto="" show="" the;sorrowed="" -="" silver="" lining="" fttthc="" clolid..="" thereis.no="" higher="" aim="" than="" cultivate="" good="" .disposition,="" andipothing="" more="" praiseworthy="" xraelwhen="" thus="" cultivated;.="" god;="" love="" to'iee:="" usicheerful="" nad="" happyiand="" we!="" never="" bel.really<happy="" unless:-="" wel="" biiltivath?="" swdefc="" dispositiomorlby="" doing="" ibik="" wo="" notconly="" be="" so.="" okrsfelvds,="" but="" impaiftj="" tjoy="" had="" jdve="" tothe="" .hearty-of="" all-those="" witlb.whoinbwd="" come="" on-contact,="" '.lam--i.="" jliud="" fiu="a77.o">sympathize with her.
	Many aching hearts have been soothed by
confiding their troubles to some dear friend,
who could feel deeply and realize their sorrow.
Did ever any one go away from such a friend
without saying I feel that a weight has been
lifted from off my heart, and that I have
parted with half my sorrow. We can soon
cheer those who are sad and lonely, if we go
the right way to work, commencing by a little
sympathy and then gradually turning the
thoughts into a brighter channel. I dare say
after a while they will not think it was so bad
after all. Who can help admiring a person of
this kind? Not one of us. If they are pure
in their motives we love them as soon as they
are known to us. How beautiful it is to al-
ways be able to light up the faces of our
friends and make them happier by our pres-
ence; to be able to look on the bright side of
the picture and cause smiles to beam where
there were tears before—to show the sorrowed
one the silver lining to the cloud. There is no
higher aim than to cultivate a good disposition,
and nothing more praiseworthy than one, when
thus cultivated. God loves to see us cheerful
and happy, and we can never be really happy
unless we cultivate a sweet disposition. By
doing this we can not only be so ourselves, but
impart joy and love to the hearts of all those
with whom we come in contact.
	BEATRICE.


QUEEN Victoria does not approve of carpets,
and has India matting placed on the floors of
nearly all her private apartments.

	THE Ole Bull memorial fund concert at
Bergen, Norway was a great success. Mrs.
Bull (a Wisconsin woman) and family were
present, and Miss Emma Thursby was the
principal star of the occasion. The receipts
were $10,000.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SCENES IN NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	Soon after the return of President Brigham
Young and my father from Europe, they were
appointed chaplains to the Nauvoo Legion.
Their uniform was of black cloth, with cha-
peaus and plumes of the same color. After
the Prophet's assassination, President Brigham
Young was appointed in his stead as Lieut.-
General of the Legion.
	We were living but a little distance from
the training ground, where we witnessed many
grand displays, as well as on the prairie, where
they went to hold a three day's muster.
	I can call to mind many a pleasing reminis-
cence in the midst of our journeyings, while
others have grown dim in the lapse of years,
that have brought their various and trying
changes to all, more particularly to the Latter-
day Saints, who have been driven and scourged
for many years. The Lord has various ways
of bringing His children to repentance, and in
having to drink deep of the bitter cup, we
know better than any other people how to
sympathize with others when they are called
to suffer in a similar manner; and it has also
taught us how to enjoy the sweets as they come,
and I believe that we have been and are still
the happiest people living, for the Holy Spirit
has assisted us, and that with a clear conscience
is of more worth than the whole world without
it.
	In dwelling upon the early scenes in Nauvoo,
my mind reverts back to a time in Kirtland
when our brethren were in the habit of train-
ing every Saturday, and I can remember with
what joy and childish delight we would wel-
come that day, and I remember too how I
used to love to hear the old patriotic songs,
and to read or listen to the tales rehearsed con-
cerning what was then called "the late war"
with Great Britain, and also the revolutionary
war, where our liberty was bought with the
blood of our patriots.
	We were believers in an unpopular religion;
the founder was quite a young man, but was
called an old gold digger. Our claims to the
privileges guaranteed us by the Constitution,
though gained through long years of hard-
ships, suffering and privation, and the death of
many of our heroic sires, were denied us, and
my father and his brethren were obliged to
arm themselves; and for weeks were not per-
mitted to take off their clothes, and laid on the
ground with their firelocks night after night to
preserve the lives of the Prophet and their
families from those wicked traitors who were
threatening destruction upon them.
	The place where they daily mustered was in
a large meadow just behind our house, belong-
ing to Brother Ira Bond, and oh! how much I
enjoyed the training and music of their marital
band; it seemed one continual holiday for us
children, who had very little idea of the mean-
ing of it.
	Peace was restored for a little season, but we
had been in Far West just three weeks when the
brethren had to again rally together to defend
themselves from the mobbers of Missouri.
	We had moved into a portion of the public
storehouse, where we remained until father
built a small cabin, which he had intended for
a stable when our dwelling house was finished.
The storehouse stood on one side of the square
where the Saints had dug the foundation for a
Temple. This was the gathering place, where
the brethren mustered; they often came to our
door for a refreshing draught of water and to
rest in the shade of the house, as the weather
was extremely warm.
	I well remember the morning when the first
of the mobbers entered the city; we were at-
tending school, which was taught by Brother
Jesse Haven and his sister, who had lately,

[Column 2]
come there from Massachusetts. She was a
very sweet lady and greatly beloved by the
scholars and finally by all who became ac-
quainted with her. After we came to Nauvoo
she was married to Brother Israel Barlow, who
was among the first "Mormons," and they are
now living in Bountiful, Utah. The school-
house was a large, fine building, with an entry,
which the Saints had built on the outskirts of
the town. When the mobbers came in they
passed by the schoolhouse, and at the sound of
their bugle the excitement was so great that
we were allowed to go to the windows to see
them pass. Soon after this the school had to
be closed, in consequence of the mobbing.
During a portion of the next winter we at-
tended one taught by William Huntington in
a private dwelling house in the central part of
the city. I never realized any danger, but,
fired by the spirit of war, my eldest brother,
with my assistance, prepared for it by making
wooden guns, swords and flags, and the latter
were hoisted to the topmost part of our [-]ence or
cabin, where they could be seen fluttering in
the breeze, and at the martial sound of fife and
drum we would start to our feet and march
with as much enthusiasm as though we be-
longed to a regiment of soldiers. We realized
no danger, were probably too young; besides,
we were at headquarters. Many of the Saints
had fled to Far West for protection; not even
when the city was surrounded by the mob we
never knew that we were conquered, nor that
there were such fiends in a land that boasted of
freedom, professing Christianity, but no con-
sideration of justice or mercy could move their
stony hearts. Polygamy did not cause that, as
it had not been revealed.
	After many of the Saints had been massa-
cred, and others died through want and sick-
ness occasioned by their brutal course in the
dead of winter, the rest fled for their lives to
the then hospitiable State of Illinois, where
for a little season they enjoyed peace and the
privilege of organizing their men into a Le-
gion.
	Once more we could celebrate the glorious
and never-to-be-forgotten day of our nation's
Independence, the Fourth of July, which was
ushered in by the welcome peals of artillery,
and our martial and brass bands playing the
soul-thrilling airs that will never cease to in-
spire the heart of every true son and daughter
of freedom.
	Every act of our people from their first or-
ganization until the present time—although
they have been so cruelly persecuted and
driven from their homes, and many sealed their
testimony with their blood, and finally were
driven from out the United States—has proven
our loyalty to the Constitution, though opportu-
nities for forming other ties were not wanting,
which any other community under like circum-
stances would have accepted; but we had
brought with us the beloved stars and stripes,
which we had never deserted, no, not even
when Governor J. W. Shaeffer, to gratify his
spleen, prohibited the mustering of the Nauvoo
Legion. Our people considered it nothing
more nor less than a silly farce, which was
gracefully submitted to, as all other similar re-
quirements have been, thereby taking their
own weapons from out their hands; but when
required to give up our right to "serve God
according to the dictates of our own con-
sciences," and to accept of others' notions and
ideas of virtue and morality, that is quite an-
other thing; and though they may howl and
continue to heap upon us their contemptible
falsehoods, and call us bad names, they need
not flatter themselves that the "Mormon" wo-
men are so ignorant of the law, or so weak and
simple-minded as to be hoodwinked by any
man, not even a "Mormon." Our enemies
know as well as we do that we have broken no
law in practising Polygamy, it being a Bible

[Column 3]
doctrine, and we revive it as coming from the
Almighty, who sanctioned and honored it by
bringing forth our Savior through polygamous
lineage, and He declared that He was "the
root and the offspring of David."
	If people calling themselves Christians will
persist in denying this part of the Scriptures,
they had better burn up the whole. Before
my father ever heard that such a principle had
been revealed to Joseph Smith he said to some
friends in my hearing that if "all things were
to be restored again as they were in the begin-
ning," as the Scriptures declare them, the prin-
ciple of a plurality of wives must also be re-
stored; and he was heard to repeat the same
when on his second mission to Europe, but he
said he hardly expected it would come in his
day. And when he heard it taught by Joseph
Smith, he said the shock was similar to that of
an earthquake; and when he commanded him
to take another wife, if it had been his death
sentence he could not have felt worse, and
there were others who felt similar; and if it
could have been just as acceptable in the sight
of God, they would have chosen death. The
few humble Saints who heard the principle
from the Prophet's lips knew that he was a
true Prophet of God, for the Holy Spirit bore
witness to them that the principle was from
Him, and they knew too that Joseph Smith
would never have had the courage to introduce
such a doctrine, much less to command men to
enter into it whose traditions made it so obnox-
ious to their natural feelings, if it had not been
commanded by the Almighty, for he was fully
aware of the jeopardy in which he placed his
own life by doing it, and I know that life was
very dear to him, as much so as to any man
living, and that he was a devoted husband to
his first wife, Emma; and a more affectionate
father never lived; but he also knew that if he
disobeyed that command that he would be des-
troyed, and would also forfeit his eternal salva-
tion.
	If the few who believe this principle to be a
righteous one can afford to endure it, certainly
the stranger ought to leave us to ourselves to
work out the "problem," for we know that with
God's help we shall do it in spite of them.
We realize the greatness of the undertaking,
and also that many sad mistakes have been
made because of the foolishness of fallen man,
but that does not prove the principle to be in-
correct. We have been commanded to "try
all things and to hold fast that which is good,"
and we are trying to obey as far as it is possi-
ble in our weak and sinful states, and if it af-
fords any pleasure to our enemies to hurl their
wicked darts, and continue to waste their am-
munition upon us they are at liberty to do so.
We have learned long ago to keep cool, which
is the most aggravating of all, and I believe
that sensible people will in time become dis-
gusted.
	If those who call themselves Christians
would come to us with a spirit more in accord-
ance with their profession, if we could not all
see alike, we might at least be friends; but the
unrighteous and inhuman course taken to root
out what they please to call "The Twin Relic,"
only arouses in our hearts a more determined
spirit of opposition, and fills every virtuous
and sincere "Mormon" woman with indigna-
tion, and we tell them with the same spirit that
inspired the heroic defenders of liberty at
Bunker Hill, when they said to the infatuated
monarch of England, "We have chosen (re-
ligious) war in preference to voluntary slavery"
to their false ideas and the humbuggeries of ac-
knowledged Mormon-eaters and virtue and life
destroyers.


A LADY candidate is running for the office
of county superintendent of schools on the
Democratic ticket in Iowa County, Wis.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 76


NEVER AGAIN.

Never again! O never again!
Words that come to me ringing with pain,
Chasing the brightness ont of my heart,
Causing sad tears of anguish to start;
Coming in spite of me, ever the same-
Never again, O never again!

Never again shall thy cheery word
In loving counsel again be heard,
Teaching us how to be brave and strong,
To love the right and to hate the wrong;
Never again shall thy watchful care
Lead us away from the tempter's snare.

No more shall we hear thy earnest prayer
Ascend to the Father for watchful care
Over the loved ones, though they might be
Scattered away from the "Family Tree,"
That all might be kept from sorrow and sin,
And each a name in His Kingdom might win.

Never again shall thy voice be heard
Teaching the precious Gospel word,
Blessing the widow and helping the poor,
Dealing from out thy generous store,
Leading the feeble, and guiding the young,
Till blessings dwelt on every tongue.

Never again shall thy tender tones
Gather around thee thy little ones,
Under the shade of the spreading tree,
Thine own hands planted so lovingly;
The little ones answer in sobs of pain,
Never again, O never again!

Be still, my heart, and cease to repine;
Thy will, O Lord, be done, not mine.
His mission is finished, his labor is done,
His debt is paid, and his crown is won;
No more sorrow, and no more pain,
Never again, no, never again.

Look forth, sad heart, to a future day,
When all old things will have passed away;
When earth will be clothed with eternal bloom,
And we shall inherit a glorious home.
And then in a grand, unbroken chain,
We'll meet to be parted, O, never again!
						ESTHER A. BENNION.


[Column 1]

﻿LIGHT READING.

	By common consent, light reading is gener-
ally denounced, Perhaps the statement is too
sweeping as it stands, and for the purposes of
this brief paper it may be as well to state that
the light reading here intended to be under-
stood refers to that branch customarily desig-
nated as "novel-reading." While I do not
wish to recommend novel reading, I do wish to
say that it is not without its virtues; that how-
ever many evils some may discover in it—many
of which are undeniably genuine—it has at-
tractions that recommend it to the judicious,
and that, despite the evil results attending ill-
timed and excessive light reading, the benefits
that accrue to those who exercise wisdom in it
are manifold and lasting. Like some other
good things in this world which could be men-
tioned, it suffers from abuse; and to the super-
ficial, the truth that it is capable of injury is a
sufficient argument that it can be pursued to
no good end. They overlook the fact, that the
evil is in the person, not in the thing.
	The most popular recommendation in favor
of light reading, and the one which, on account
of a lack of wisdom, brings it into such gen-
eral disrepute—is that of relaxation. When
followed purely for the purposes of relief, it is
at once one of the most pleasing, profitable,
effective and healthful. It is pleasing for the
reason that it entertains; it is effective, because
the relaxation is complete, it is healthful in
that no strain upon the system is due to it, no
 effort is required to draw the mind from the
subjects that have occupied it for hours, and
made it weary, and it fits the mind, by exhil-
erating the tone, for other labors; it is profit-

[Column 2]

able, because, however light the reading may
be, if the person that peruses it it moderately
intelligent and ordinarily apt, something of
profit can be found in it. In fact, one might
go so far as to declare, with a reasonable satis-
faction that the assertion is susceptible of proof,
that, there is no class of light reading—unless
it be actually vile and vicious—but some good
may be derived from it, if the person is capa-
ble of making it profitable.
	But to give sounder reasons why light read-
ing is productive of good. All will admit that
there are many worse things than the reading
of novels, even though they come under the
ignoble appellation of "trash." Parents, if
they are of sound mind, should find actual
comfort in the reading of light literature by
their children, when it keeps their offspring off
the streets and away from the influences of
evil and vicious habits. There is some good in
it in this regard, is there not?
	If the habit of reading once becomes con-
firmed, it is rarely if ever broken; and after it
has once taken hold, if care be exercised, but,
little difficulty will be experienced in introduc-
ing a higher standard of literature. Persons
who read from the force of habit, if they can-
not obtain that which is not—for they
will read.
	Reading is one of the most potent factors in
the cause of education; because, while pursued
from love, or habit, it unavoidably disseminates
information. It is a labor of love, but it
proves an effective physic also. In teaching a
child anything, it is necessary to begin at the
rudiments, and light reading is one of hte rudi-
ments to the habit of general reading.
	Since it imparts knowledge even when un-
sought, so also does it develop intelligence, even
when there is no active desire for intelligence;
and this intelligence will manifest itself in the
gradual and voluntary—though almost imper-
ceptible—selection of a higher class of litera-
ture, providing the nature of the reader is pro-
gressive.
	On the principle that like begets like, the
reader of ideas must himself create ideas; and
taking this as a basis, in this fact alone can be
found much profit in light reading. These
should be sufficient in themselves to stand as
recommendations in favor of light reading.
Mind you, it is not claimed that light reading
is preferable to solid reading, but that it is bet-
ter than no reading at all. Neither is it held
that the reasons given will apply to all, but
they will stand as applicable for genereal pur-
poses. But there are still other reasons which
advise light reading for the actual benefits it
insures, and which can be secured more readily
through it than by any other means, I will
omit a repetition of the recommendation found
in it as a source of relaxation, which, being
within the reach of all, at all times and all
places, cannot be surpassed, and will place it
on the ground that it is indispensable to the
cultivated mind, and that it occupies the same
exalted position as the study of art—for it is
a study of art. The well-read person, whose
conversation possesses such a charm is not one
who has informed himself upon scientific sub-
jects and become conversant with the classics
alone, but he is a person of general reading,
who has found food for reflection, who has dis-
covered profound thoughts, eloquent ideas and
moving sentiments in the products of the
novel-writer. Such a person feels the power
for good that is wielded by the writer of the
novel, and he has but to point to the products
of the brain of such men as Sir Walter Scott,
Charles Dickens and Charles Read, in Eng-
land, and to Nathaniel Hawthorne and others
of our own country, for a confirmation. The
novel is a power, and in the hands of a man
of genius, imbued with correct principles and
noble aspirations, it is a power for great, for

[Column 3]

widespread good, than which none can be
greater. Of course it is abused, so also is the
pulpit—the footstool of hte Lord—abused, but
no one would ever think of overthrowing the
pulpit because it has been defiled, any more
than they would think of throwing away a
dollar whidch could be used to clothe or feed
the poor, or to do one of a thousand praise
worthy things—because some one had formerly
employed the dollar for a vile purpose. What
we want to do is to see if we cannot find some
thing useful in the novel, as we do when in
kinder words we weigh the character of some
erring soul, and confess the good when we dis-
cover it. We should cease to make up our
minds it is bad, and peruse it only for the pur-
pose of finding out that which is unwholesome.
	I did intend explaining why novel reading
occupied a similar position to the study of art;
but I would not have space to do so in this ar-
ticle, and will defer it to another time. I only
ask a suspension of judgment until the oppor-
tunity to explain is afforded, when I am con-
vinced, I can prove my claim to be based upon
liberal, beneficial and logical principles
	SIMPLE SIMON.


A WOMAN DELEGATE.

	At the Massachusetts Republican Conven-
tion, Mrs. Mary A. Livermore, the modest and
eloquent advocate of suffrage for women, was
not stopped by a policeman at the door of Me-
chanic's hall and banished to the gallery, there
to await an appeal to the convention, but came
in like every other fellow and made one in the
grand total of 1038 delegated reported by the
elegant Mr. Lodge, of Nahant, for the com-
mittee on credentials. The state central com-
mittee slept on their action of last night, and
thought better of the purpose to go behind the
returns and discriminate against the Melrose
woman delegate. This morning the committee
adopted the following resolution:—
	In view of the recent death of our beloved
President James A. Garfield, and the sad cir-
cumstances under which our state convention
to-day assembles, causing a universal desire on
the part of this committee to have no debate,
no discussion ofs pecial subjects in open conven-
tion; and also in consideration of the fact that
our chairman has upon his personal responsi-
bility directed the issuing of a ticket of admis-
sion to Mrs. Mary A. Livermore as a delegate
from the town of Melrose, without approving
her course or acknowledging her right to act
as a delegate in the convention, and without
rescinding from the opinions expressed by this
state central committee at its last session, viz.:
that no person has any right to act as a dele-
gate in the republican state convention who is
not a voter in this state and legally qualified
to vote at the polls for the election of those
state officers who might by their vote be nomi-
nated by the convention,— voted that the action
of this committee at its last session, refusing
admission to Mrs. Mary A. Livermore as a
delegate without the concurrence of the full
convention, be rescinded.
	The full language is given because the anti-
women faction distinctly and emphatically deny
that they "backed down." You may think
what you please about it. They repudiate the
"insiduendo." Some of them earnestly and
honestly stick for the principle that the partici-
pants in a political convention must be persons
who are legally qualified to vote for its candi-
dates. The certainty, however, of a row in the
convention should Mrs. Livermore be kept out
by express order of the state committee led
the valiant thirteen bitter opponents of her
admission to a compromise. This very dan-
gerous woman had not meditated taking any
part in the proceedings, and readily agreed not
to say anything if her admission was unchal-
lenged.—Springfield Republican


68	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	OCTOBER 1, 1881.


A WHOLE NATION MOURNING.

	A terrible blow has fallen upon the Am-
erican nation in the assassination and death
of its Chief Executive, President Garfield.
Weeks of prolonged suffering of the most in-
tense character, and anxiety and suspense for
the whole nation hovering alternately between
hope and fear as he, the victim of
the assassin, hovered between life and
death, constantly watching for the latest
news and praying earnestly that his life
might be spared, to his family and the whole
people. Never was there manifest a more
powerful element of sympathy and affection
from a great people than during the illness and
suffering of the late deceased President. And
now there is sincere mourning in all the land,
and everywhere are its emblems floating upon
the breeze.
	In Utah the people are as loyal in this respect
as anywhere else in the whole nation. The
feelings of this people are as tender towards the
departed dead, and their hearts are as full of
compassion for the living, who mourn the loss
of son, husband, and father, as any hearts are
capable of being, for none know better how to
sympathize.
	Memorial services were held in the large
Tabernacle, which was heavily draped in black,
and the whole congregation seemed bowed jn
humilation and mourning for the great and good
man departed and the heavy sorrow that has
fallen upon the entire country in which all alike
participate.
	It is a subject to call forth much thought as
well as feeling, but in the midst of all it should
be remembered God lives and holds the destinies
of nations in His hands.
	No President since the days of the immortal
Washington has ever been so sacredly enshrined
in the hearts of the whole people as James A.
Garfield.


THE CHILDREN'S FAIR.

	The Primary Fair of the Associations of Salt
Lake County was held in the Social Hall in this
city, and was open for exhibition five days, com-
mencing Thursday, Sept. 22, and continuing on
the 23d and 24th, and meeting with such excel-
lent success, was re-opened on Tuesday and
Wednesday, the 27th and 28th ult. Mrs. Ellen
C. S. Clawson and her Counselors, Mrs. Camilla
Cobb and Annie D. Watson, spared no pains to
make the affair as complete in every particular
and department as it could be made. The Pres-
idents of the several wards that had articles
from their respective Associations on exhibition
also lent a helping hand, by managing each her
own department, and thus facilitating the heavy
labor of Mrs. Clawson and her associates.

[Column 2]
	It would be utterly useless to attempt to men-
tion all the work of the little folks, and incon-
sistent under the circumstances to give names
or make comparisons, but there was much to be
admired and to arouse an ambition in others to
"go and do likewise."
	Every conceivable article of ornamentation
that could be made by little girls was there to
be seen in one or the other of the several spaces
allotted to the different wards. There were six-
teen quilts, of a variety of patterns, all well
made and nicely quilted. There were one or
two dresses very neatly made by girls about
thirteen years old; doll dresses by those much
younger, and aprons, pillow cases, and a few
other articles of this kind, lots of stockings of
home knitting, also mittens and dolls' stockings;
hoods for children, very handsome, crocheted of
wool, and one very elegant shawl made by a
child twelve years old.
	Almost innumerable mottoes, worked upon
perforated card-board in every form, wool, tarle-
tan and wax flowers in abundance; tidies of
every form and size, and of all available mate-
rials; several specimens of fine pillow lace and
ornamental embroidery, and work of all des-
criptions. Cocoons raised by the little girls, too,
of an excellent quality, which really deserve
special mention. Paintings on silk and wood
were also very creditable indeed.
	Then there was a department for cookery
where the "little women" displayed handsome
cakes, many of them frosted and ornamented,
pies, bread, butter, preseves, jellies, and so forth;
some of these articles were very "fair to look
upon," but as we were not permitted to taste,
one could not judge so well of their quality.
	There were vegetables of almost all kinds
which had been raised by the little boys, pota-
toes, corn, pop corn, turnips, -beets, squashes,
nearly every variety; and pea-nuts which were
really quite a curiosity to many. The boys had
sleds, book shelves, wagons, tiny cradles, and
clothes-horse and other such articles, and a pair
of shoes, the first shoe-making of some industri-
ous boy; there was ornamental plaster work too,
done by little boys, and many other things we
have not space to mention. Mrs. Clawson can-
not help but feel gratified with the success
of the Fair, and it has been so highly appreci-
ated by the people that it has been allotted space
in "The Utah Territorial Fair," to be held in
this city, commencing October 3d.
	The admittance to the Primary Fair was only
10 cts. for adults and 5 cts. for children, yet the
aggregate amount was considerable, and Mrs.
Clawson informs us that after paying the tithing
out of the funds, $50.00 has been donated to the
Logan Temple and the remainder reserved to
appropriate towards prizes for the coming exhibi-
tion another year.
	We would suggest to the children that next
year they exhibtt more needle work, plain and
ornamental, also darning, button-hole mak-
ing, and straw work, and also that
the little girls and boys both write essays
and poems; they will have a year to think
of it and we will offer now a suitable prize,
to any girl or boy under fifteen years of age who
will write the best original poem or essay; and
the decision to be made by five competent dis-
interested critics.
	Several persons have given prizes and render-
ed valuable aid to the commendable work of the
Primary Associations. President John Taylor
gave the use of the building to the Fair, and H.
B. Clawson, Esq., gave much assistance to the
ladies in getting up and carrying out the entire
arrangements.
	We trust the little folks will be encouraged
by the success of their work to persevere in
making and improving in all useful em-

[Column 3]
ployments. Industry is the road to wealth, and
to honor as well, and the children of Zion have
much to do and may they be able to do their
work well is my prayer.
	We tender our thanks to Mrs. Clawson, and
the ladies associated with her, for substantially
remembering the WOMAN'S EXPONENT in dis-
tributing the delicacies left from the Fair.
Many thanks for the same.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	Pen Sketch of an Illustrious Woman will be
continued in our next.

	MRS. ZINA D. YOUNG is visiting relatives and
gathering up genealogies at her old home in the
State of New York.

	DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON, was in New York
when last heard from, but expected to visit
Hartford, Conn., shortly.

	MUCH matter we intended publishing is left
out to make room for particulars concerning the
President's death and burial.

	THERE will be a Primary Fair in Utah County
October 15th, under the supervision of Mrs.
Zina Y. Williams and her Counselors.

	THE Book for Primary Associations entitled
Questions and Answers, by Mrs. Eliza R. S.
Smith, will be ready for sale at Conference,

	THE October Conference will convene in the
large Tabernacle on Thursday morning, October
6th. There will no doubt be a very large "atten-
dance.

	THE Primary Conference of this Stake of Zion
was held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, Sat-
urday, Sept. 24th. Mrs. Ellen C. S. Clawson,
presiding.

	THE Conference of Y. L. M. I. A. of this
Stake of Zion was held in the 14th Ward Assem-
bly Rooms, Saturday afternoon, Sept. 24. Mrs.
Mary A. Freeze, presiding.

	WE have had the pleasure of traveling through
a large part of Sanpete County recently in com-
pany with Mrs. Eliza R. S. Smith, of this city,
and Mrs. Amelia H. Goldsbrough, of Nephi,
but shall not be able to furnish our readers with
an account of our visit and the meetings we at-
tended, as we have not the space this time. In
our next issue we expect to give all the best
points of our journey, what we saw and heard.

	DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT left Salt Lake City,
en route for New York, on Monday morning,
Sept, 26, with the intention of studying under
Dr. Noyes, of Bellvue Hospital, who has made
her a very desirable proposition to instruct her
more fully in the use of the opthalmiscope for ex-
amining the interior of the eye, and also in the
adjusting of glasses in refractory cases of defec-
tive eyesight, two of the most difficult branches
in optics. Mrs. Pratt will be away about six
months.

	THE Utah Territorial Fair will open on Mon-
day, Oct. 3, at the same place formerly used for
that purpose, on West Temple Street, and will
connect with the Deseret Museum, which will
make it doubly interesting.  No pains has been
spared by the several committees to make this
Fair a successful one, and the awarding of special
prizes will be a noticeable feature. Everybody
should go to the Fair; no doubt it will be the
means of promoting home interests in every
department of labor, by stimulating the people
to renewed efforts in stock raising, agriculture,
inventing, home manufacture, and all that will
help develop the elements and resources of Utah.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 69


DR. J. M. BERNHISEL.﻿

	Died at his residence in this city about 11:40
a. m. on Wednesday, September 28, 1881, Dr.
John M. Bernhisel. His disease is said to have
been intermittent fever, from which he had been
suffering only five days. The Doctor was born
June 23, 1799, at Sandy Hill, Pennsylavaina, but
united with the Church of Jesus Christ in the
State of New York, where he was then residing,
and engaged in the practise of his profession.
He belonged to what is known as the "old
school" class of physicians, but he held his own
peculiar views on the subjects of health and hy-
giene.
	Dr. Bernhisel was a true gentleman in every
sense of the word; a man of learning, versed in
literature, and one who ranked high in the medi-
cal profession.
	Deceased was a most intimate and very dear
friend of the Prophet Joseph Smith, whom he
held in the highest reverence as a brother and
servant of God, and he knew, perhaps, more of
his home life than almost any other man, hav-
ing boarded in the family and attended upon
the household as family physician for several
years. He was true as steel to the interests of
the kingdom of God, and willing to endure all
things for the truth's sake. He was genial and
interesting in conversation, such a man as one
never tires of conversing with, for he had always
something to impart, was full of intelligence and
originality.
	Dr. Bernhisel was the first delegate to the
Congress of the United States from Utah, and
while in Washington made many staunch
friends, who still hold him in honorable remem-
brance. His days have been filled with useful-
ness, and he has passed away at peace with all
the world, in the full faith of the Everlasting Gos-
pel, to join the Prophet he so dearly loved and
hosts of Saints who have preceded him, to await
with them the glorious resurrection of the just.
	The funeral of Dr. Bernhisel was held on Fri-
day Sept. 30, in the 17th Ward Assembly Rooms,
of which we will publish particulars hereafter.
	May our Heavenly Father in His tender
mercy soften this sad bereavement to the sor-
rowing family, the widow and her children, and
may they be able to acknowledge the Divine
Hand even in this sore affliction, and rely upon
the arm of the Almighty for strength to endure
this trying ordeal, for though they have been
called to mourn a husband and father, he has
passed to his rest, and is now no doubt rejoicing
that he has gained the victory over death and
the grave.


GOVERNOR MANN DEAD.

	We regret to learn of the demise of Ex-
Governor S. A. Mann, of Utah, who died re-
cently, at Reno, Nevada, of dropsy, from which
he had been suffering for some time past. It
will be remembered that it was Governor Mann
who approved the bill granting suffrage to the
women of this Territory, and as a natural conse-
quence he has been held in high esteem by those
who appreciate political privileges. He deserves
to be honored and his name held in remem-
brance to the latest generations, for so excep-
tionally noble an act. He was a gentleman of
fine ability and generous impulses, and of bril-
liant attainments. He was well beloved and
greatly admired by those who had the pleasure
of his acquaintance, for he possessed genuine
nobility of heart and was highly endowed intel-
lectually. Whatever may have been his faults
or, failings (and none are without), he was the
friend and benefactor of woman, and as such we
should ever remember him. He certainly pos-
sessed extraordinary courage, when he dared to


do what was so unpopular, as to sanction the po-
litical rights of women.


RESOLUTIONS

Of Respect, to the memory of Sister M. Brim-
	hall, who died in Spanish Fork, Sept. 9th,
	1881; aged 15 years, 8 months and 17 days.

	Adopted by the members of the Y. L. M. I. A.
of Spanish Fork, Sept. 12th, 1881.

	Whereas, Our Father in heaven has seen fit
in the dispensations of His Providence to call
from our midst our much beloved and respected
friend and sister, Prudence M. Brimhall.
	Resolved, That we, the members of the Y. L.
M. I. A. have sustained the loss of a valued
friend and co-worker, who had become endear-
ed to us by her faithfulness, genuine piety,
and gentle, unassuming deporment.
	Resolved, That we sincerely condole and sym-
pathize with her afflicted family in their bereave-
ment.
	Resolved, That these Resolutions be spread
upon the record of the Society, and a copy be
sent to the Woman's Exponent, and our Sister's
sorrowing family.
	Resolutions of respect and condolence were
also adopted in the Sabbath School.
			MRS. MARY MORRISON, Prest.
			MRS. HANNAH CORNABY, Cor. Sec.


[Column 1]
﻿SOME DETAILS OF THE NATIONAL
CALAMITY.

	ELBERON, 19.—Everything seemed indicative
of a quiet night. At half-past 10, while Boyn-
ton was conversing at Elberon Hotel, a messen-
ger suddenly appeared and spoke to the doctor
in an undertone, and he immediately left the
table at which he was sitting and started on a
run for Francklyn Cottage. This movement
was a sequel to the representatives of the press
congregated at the hotel that something
unusual had occurred. But few moments
had elapsed when Mr. Warren Young, one of
the executive clerks, came to Elberon Hotel and
announced that the President was dead.
	Previous to his death, the only words spoken
by the President were that he had a severe pain
in his heart. It is supposed by the surgeons that
death was occasioned by clot blood formed in the
heart. Dr. Bliss was the first one notified of the
President's expression of pain, and upon enter-
ing the President's room at once saw that the
end was near.
	Members of the family were immediately
summoned to the bedside. All arrived and per-
fect quiet prevailed.
	Mrs. Garfield bore the trying ordeal with great
fortitude, and exhibited unprecedented courage.
She gave way to no paroxysms of grief, and
after death became evident, she quietly with-
drew to her own room. There she sat a heart-
stricken widow, full of grief, but with too much
courage to exhibit it to those about her. She
was laboring under a terrible strain, and despite
her efforts, tears flowed from her eyes and her
lips became drawn by her noble attempt to bear
the burden with which she had been afflicted.
Miss Mollie was greatly afflicted, and bursts of
tears flowed from the child's eyes, notwith-
standing her noble effort to follow the example
of her mother.
	The death scene was one never to be forgot-
ten. Perfect quiet prevailed, and there was not
a murmur heard while the President was sink-
ing. After death had been pronounced, the
body was properly arranged by Dr. S. A. Boyn-
ton.
	The ceremonies at Francklyn Cottage consist-
ed of Scripture reading, "Blessed are the dead
who die in the Lord," &c., followed by an elo-
quent and very affecting prayer by Rev. Charles
J. Young, of Long Branch.
	The body of the dead was dressed in the suit
President Garfield wore on Inauguration day, a
black, double-breasted frock coat, dark vest,
black trousers and black satin necktie. The
right hand lay by the side, and the left across
the heart. The casket was placed in the hall,
that the people who crowded the avenue might
see the remains. Two sentinels were posted at
the door, that but one person might pass at
time, and at 8.45 a.m. the file began to pass
through the hall. The casket was rich but sim-
ple, being covered with heavy black cloth, and
bearing silver mountings. The only decoration

[Column 2]
was a sago palm, extending upward from the
foot of the casket. As the file passed through,
the church bells tolled, and few could keep back
their tears. Those familiar with the President's
countenance could scarcely recognize him, so
pinched and haggard was the face, with its
drawn lines and changed contour. The solemn
silence was broken only by the sorrowful strokes
of the bells, the rustling of the awed people, and
occasional sobs.
	The train which was to bear the body and
mourners to Washington was drawn up before
the Francklyn Cottage at 9.30 a.m., engine and
cars being heavily draped. At the same time
there arrived Chief-Justice Waite,Secretary and
Mrs. Blaine, Secretary and Mrs. Windom, Sec-
retary and Mrs. Hunt, Postmaster-General
James and wife, Secretaries Lincoln and Kirk-
wood, and Attorney-General MacVeagh, and
the doors were closed to visitors. The casket
was placed in the same car that bore the suffer-
ing President to the shore, and the train moved
away at 10 a.m., reaching Elberon station at
10.12, where President Arthur and Gen. and
Mrs. Grant were taken on board. The railroad
was lined for half a mile with people, and as the
train swept by the men stood silent with bare
heads. The bell tolled, the draperies and half-
masted flags of the village fluttered in the breeze,
and Long Branch was deserted.
	One of those on the funeral train says that the
passage from Elberon to Washington was one
continued manifestation of sympathy and sor-
row. In the populous cities, in the smaller vil-
lages and even in the country through which
the mournful train passed, demonstrations of
sympathy were ever present. In the larger
cities multitudes of people assembled and stood
absolutely silent, with heads uncovered, as the
train passed by, while the tolling of bells, flags
flying at half-mast and the funeral drapery
which covered many buildings all added to the
solemnity of the scene. At numerous points
along the route beautiful floral offerings were to
be seen, and at several places the track was liter-
ally covered for a distance of more than 100
yards with ferns and flowers. Even in the
country, along the route of the railroad, there
was no lack of evidence of affectionate regard
and sympathy. Men, women and children col-
lected on the porticos of dwellings near the
track, at the crossings and on the embankments
commanding a near view of the passing train,
and with bowed and uncovered heads for a fleet-
ing instant, as the train rushed past, gave evi-
dence of their sorrow. Laborers in the fields
watched the coming of the train bearing the
dead President and with bared arms and uncov-
ered heads stood mute and sorrowful while the
funeral train passed. No incident worthy of note
occurred on board during the pasage, and at 4.35
p. m. the train slowly entered the depot, when
the casket was at once removed to the hearse in
waiting. The funeral party took seats in car-
riages, and under military escort the procession
at once moved toward the Capitol.
	A vast throng were assembled about the
depot, every avenue and approach being densely
packed with jostling, but in every instance quiet
and orderly citizens. A large force of police were
on duty, and the immediate approaches to the
depot were roped off and closed against all save
those participating in the ceremonies or who
held special cards of admission to the depot.
The military were drawn up against the east side
of Sixth street with the right resting on Penn-
sylvania avenue. Upon the opposite side of the
street nearest the depot was a long line of car-
riages, preceded by the hearse, whi[-]h was
drawn up directly at the main gate on the Sixth
street side. The hearse used was furnish-
ed by Undertaker Spears, of that city, and is
known as the centennial hearse, it having been
awarded the prize at the centennial exhibition.
It was draped in black of rich and heavy ma-
terial, wholly unrelieved by any other color, and
was drawn by six iron-gray horses whose trap-
pings were also draped in sombre black. Just
before the train entered the depot the platform
was cleared by the police, and the officers of the
army and navy to the number of 139 formed in
single rank upon the left, facing the train. As
the train slowly rolled into the depot every head
upon the platform was uncovered, and a still-
ness as of the grave pervaded the vast throng,
which for more than an hour had been patiently
waiting by the road side.
	Soon Mrs. Garfield, assisted by Secretary
Blaine, descended from the car, and taking his
arm upon her right and that of her son Harry
upon her left, she walked directly to the carriage
in waiting. Her face was completely concealed
by a heavy black veil which hung nearly to


[Column 1]
the ground, and whatever emotions she may
have experienced were sacred from the sight of
those who gazed upon her as the central figure
in the sad pageant. She entered the state car-
riage and was followed by her daughter, Mollie,
her son Harry, Mrs. Rockwell and Miss Rock-
well. The others of the Presidential party were
President Arthur, who leaned upon the arm of
of Senator Jones, of Nevada, Gen. Grant, Gen.
Swain and Mrs. Swain, Col. Rockwell, Col. Cor-
bin, Dr. Bliss, and daughter, Drs. Boynton,
Agnew and Hamilton, Attorney General Mac-
Veagh, his wife and two sons, Secretary and
Mrs. Hunt, Secretary and Mrs. Lincoln and
son, Postmaster General and Mrs. James and
Secretary Kirkwood.
	The first three carriages received those of the
party who did not accompany the procession to
the Capitol. After they had moved on a short
distance from the entrance,the casket appeared,
borne upon the shoulders of eight soldiers of the
2d artillery, detailed from the arsenal barracks.
On the right, in a single file and headed by
Adjt. Gen. Drum, were the officers of the army,
and on the left the officers of the navy, under
the lead of Rear Admiral Nichols, as the casket
was borne to the hearse, the Marine band sta-
tioned across the street played "Nearer My God
to Thee," while every head was bowed and
many eyes were dimmed. The sad strains of
the sweetly familiar hymn, the hush that had
fallen upon the scene and the grief mirrored on
thousands of faces marked the picture with
shadings that years cannot efface from the me-
mory of those who stood about the bier of the
dead President.
	After the casket had been placed in the hearse
the remainder of the party entered their car-
riages and took their places in the procession.
President Arthur's followed immediately after
the hearse, and in it were Mr. Arthur, Secretary
Blaine, Chief Justice Waite and Secretary Win-
dom. The carriage containing Mrs. Garfield and
daughter was driven down Pennsylvania Avenue
to Four and one-half street, and thence to the
dwelling of Attorney General McVeagh; whose
guest she was during her stay in the city.
	With muffled drums and solemn funeral d[-]ge
the procession moved slowly up the Avenue. A
dense mass lined the sidewalks all the way from
Sixth street to the east front of the Capitol, and
along this portion of the route the crowd was ap-
parently as great as upon the occasion of the late
President's inaugural procession. The compari-
son between the two occasions was doubtless in
many minds, and numerous expressions of sor-
row were heard at the sad contrast. As the pro-
cession moved up the Avenue scarcely a sound
was heard save that of the feet of moving men
and horses. Hats were removed and heads bowed
as by a common impulse of deep and unfeigned
grief.
	At the east front of the capitol building a vast
assemblage had congregated to view the funeral
cortege. At the foot of the steps there was a
double file of senators and representatives head-
ed by their officers, waiting in respectful silence
to escort the remains into the rotunda. At pre-
cisely 5.10 p.m. the head of the sad procession
moving around the south side of the capitol, ar-
rived at the east front, the arms of the military
being reversed and the bands playing a dead
march. The order was then given to carry
arms and the troops came to a front face, while
to a muffled beat of the drums the hearse and
its attendant train of carriages drew slowly up
in front of the escort. A hush came over the
multitude and heads were reverently uncovered
as the casket was carefully lifted from the
hearse. The officers of the army and navy drew
up in parallel lines on either side of the hearse
and the marine band played again "Nearer My
God to Thee," as with solemn tread the re-
mains of President Garfield were borne into the
rotunda and placed upon the catafalque, the
Senators and Representatives preceding and
ranging themselves on each side of the dais.
Close behind the casket walked President Ar-
thur and Secretary Blaine, who were followed
by Chief Justice Waite and Secretary Windom,
General Grant and Secretary Hunt, Secretary
Lincoln and Attorney General MacVeagh, Sec-
retary Kirkwood and Postmaster-General James,
Col. Rockwell and Gen. Swain and Col. Corbin
and Private Secretary Brown.
	At 5.25 p. m. the lid of the casket was opened
and the face of the late President was exposed
to view. Noiselessly President Arthur and Sec-
retary Blaine approached and gazed upon the
face of the dead, and then slowly and sadly
passed out of the hall. A line was formed by
Sergeant-at-Arms Bright, and one by one those
present advanced and glanced at the emaciated

[Column 2]
and discolored face. The public at large were
then admitted, and hundreds of persons testified
by their reverential conduct and mournful coun-
tenances the sorrow which they experienced in
looking upon the features of their murdered
president.
	The body lay in state day and night until
Friday evening. A detail of 40 members of the
Army of the Cumberland tendered their ser-
vices to act as a guard of honor.
	As the shadows of night began to fall, the vast
dome of the Capitol was illuminated and the dim
light, falling upon the mournful drapings of
the rotunda and upon the still face of the
dead President served but to heighten the
solemnity.
	At 11:20 two closed carriages drove to the esat
lower entrance of the Senate wing, and the
occupants alighted, and passed up the private
stairs to the Vice-President's room. All the
corridors and passage ways upon the main floor
of the Senate were quickly barred to all callers,
and instructions were given by the sereant-at-
arms, to employees and the captain of police on
duty, to keep themselves hidden in the recess
of the windows and doors while Mrs. Garfield
passed through to the rotunda. The rotunda
was entirely cleared, the guard of honor retiring
from view for a time. In a few minutes the
little procession emerged from the Vice-Presi-
dent's room and passed around through the
silent and deserted main passage way of the
building. Sergeant-at-arms Bright Lead-
ing. Then followed Mrs. Garfield, leaning on
the arm of General Swain; Harry Garfield,
Mollie and Miss Rockwell, Colonel and Mrs.
Rockwell and Attorney General MacVeagh and
Mrs. Swain. Not a sound was heard, save foot-
steps on the floor, as the little company entered
in sombre garments of deepest mourning, passed
silently on to mingle their tears and prayers and
pay the last earthly tribute over the casket which
sealed from view the form and features of the
dead and loved husband, father and friend.
After remaining about twenty minutes in the
rotunda they returned quietly and with the same
privacy that marked their entrance, and passing
through to the Senate wing, entered the carriage
and returned to the residence of the attorney
general.
	General Sheridan was selected as one of the
guards of honor to accompany the remains of
the late President of the United States from
the national Capitol, to Cleveland, Ohio, and to
continue with them until they were consigned to
their final resting place.
	About 12 o'clock, midnight, the stream of peo-
ple who visited the capitol to take a last glance
at the casket which contained the remains of
President Garfield was sensibly diminished, and
as the night wore on it ceased almost entirely.
A few groups of persons passed through the ro-
tunda after that hour but it was not until day-
light that the crowd augmented to any con-
siderable extent.
	The doors of the rotunda were closed at 10.50
and all persons except the sergeant-at-arms,
their assistants and the guard of honor were
obliged to leave the hall.
	The floral offerings had been rearranged, the
wreath, of Queen Victoria had a central position.
On either side were great floral crosses and a
magnificent floral pillow at their base, inscribed
"Our Martyred President," "The Gates Ajar,"
"Knights of Malta" and "Garfield Union Vete-
rans," all beautiful offerings. The whole ap-
pearance of the catafalque was tasteful and ele-
gant.
	Hundreds of bouquets were brought. One
from Richmond was a large white floral angel
about the size of a child five years old holding
a silver trumpet. It was suspended over
the coffin. This was the gift of James Worm-
ley, the colored hotel keeper.
	At 1.45 o'clock, the doors of the rotunda were
opened. The first section to arrive was Knights
Templars, Beauzanut Commandery of Balti-
more. They entered in full regalia, but did not
remain in the hall, simply passing around the
catafalque in double file. Four of their number,
Sir Knight Stevens, Lawton, Bieler and Jen-
nings, bore floral offerings in the shape of an im-
mense maltese cross, which was reverently
placed at the head of the dais.
	At 2.10, members of the Army of the Cum-
berland filed in by the door leading from the
Senate Chamber,and took the seats reserved for
them. Immediately after the doors were thrown
open to all holders of tickets. In 10 minutes
the chairs set apart for the general public were
completely filled. Soon members of the diplo-
matic corps arrived and were ushered to seats re-
served for them. The military portion of the

[Column 3]
procession, which escorted the remains to the
depot, formed in front, and facing the east front
of the Capitol, with the district military hold-
ing the right of the line.
	The crush for admittance into the Capitol re-
sulted in breaking down the ropes placed to re-
strain the crowd, and before they were replaced
many without tickets obtained an entrance.
The seats in the rotunda were soon filled and
further admittance denied. The entrance of
President Arthur, accompanied by Gen. Grant,
caused nearly the whole audience to rise in or-
der to get a good look at them. They advanced
slowly to their respective seats in the front row,
next to that of the cabinet. Arthur was grave
and dignified, his tall figure dwarfing that of
Grant. The latter wore his usual fixed expres-
sion. Ex-President Hayes entered soon after
and took a seat near Grant. The silence of the
crowded rotunda was unbroken except by the
rustling of ladies' fans. Arthur, in entering,
leaned upon the arm of Secretary Blaine. Im-
mediately after followed by ex-Prest. Hayes,
Secretary and Mrs. Windom, Secretary and Mrs.
Lincoln, Secretary and Mrs. Hunt, Attorney
General and Mrs. MacVeagh, Secretary Kirk-
wood and Postmaster-General James. Mrs.
Garfield and the immediate family were not
present at the ceremonies. There was some
little confusion in seating the diplomatic corps,
representatives of the army and navy, senators
and members of the House of Representatives,
occasioned by a change on the part of some one
in charge of the arrangement in not reserving a
sufficient number of seats. At 3 o'clock every
seat was filled and all available standing room
occupied. The services were opened by Rev.
Dr: Powers promptly at 3 p.m. He ascended
the dais, and briefly announced the opening
hymn, "Asleep in Jesus, blessed sleep," which
was rendered by a chorus of fifty voices.
	Rev. Dr. Rankin ascended the platform at the
head of the catafalque and read, in a clear, dis-
tinct voice, the following selections of scriptures:
"The Lord reigneth: the floods have lifted up
their voice, the Lord on high is mightier than
the voice of many waters; clouds and darkness
are around about him, righteousness and judg-
ment are the habitation of his throne; by him
kings reign and princes decree justice; he chang-
eth times and seasons; he removeth kings and
setteth up kings, for there is no power but of
God. The powers that be, are ordained of God.
Whosoever, therefore, resisteth the power, re-
sisteth the ordinance of God, and by that resist-
ance shall receive to themselves damnation,"
and some passages from St. John and the Gos-
pels with exceeding effect.
	Rev. Dr. Isaac Everett then offered prayer.
He spoke in a clear but low tone, and with much
evidence of deep feeling. As the closing words
of the prayer died away, the Rev. F. D. Power,
of Vermont Avenue Christian Church, of which
President Garfield was a member, delivered a
feeling address. He spoke in a clear voice and
was distinctly heard in every portion of the
hall.
	At the conclusion of Dr. Powers' address, Rev.
J. G. Butler offered a prayer. The reverend
gentleman, in conclusion, paid an eloquent and
touching tribute to Mrs. Garfield, referring to
the noble and Christian spirit which she had
exhibited in her hour of sorrow and tribulation
and exhorted her to look to God in the days of
her affliction. He invoked divine blessings on the
fatherless children, that the sons should, under
the benediction of God, grow up to noble man-
hood, and that the bereaved daughter might
rise into glorious womanhood and live to be a
comfort to her widowed mother. He besought
God to have pity on the dear old mother over
the mountains, waiting for the dead body of her
darling son, now that she was old and gray
haired.
	The funeral ceremonies were concluded at
about 4 p. m., when the casket was at once
removed to the hearse, in waiting at the east
front of the Capitol. A few minutes later the
procession marched through. A military escort
preceded the hearse, which was followed by a
long line of carriages, two abreast. The military
marched up the avenue to the depot and dis-
persed, and the casket was taken at once to the
train in waiting at the Baltimore and Potomac
depot. The sidewalks of the avenue at and
intersecting the street corners were thronged
with thousands of spectators.
	Mrs. Garfield was taken on board the train
without attracting any attention. The funeral
train was the same used on the trip from Long
Branch with two additional cars. The first was
a baggage car and the second was occupied by
Mrs. Garfield, her daughter and son, Mrs. Reed,


[Column 1]
General Swain, Colonel Rockwell, Dr. Boynton,
Stanley Brown, Warren Young and Mr. Judd.
The third carried members of the cabinet and
their wives, ex-President Hayes, Justices of the
Supreme Court and S. A. Brown, chief clerk of
the state department. Upon the fourth car
were General Sherman and Generals Hancock,
Meigs, Drum and Sacket, Admiral Porter, Vice-
Admiral Rowan, Commodore English, Surgeon-
General Wales and Pay Director Tooker. The
fifth car bore the remains of the President and
a military guard composed of six soldiers and a
sergeant, from the Second Artilery. 
	The funeral train arrived in Ceveland at 1:12.
It was met by an immense concourse. There
was no confusion. The ladies took carriages.
Mrs. Garfield was supported by Secretary Blaine,
and Harry Garfield was the guest of Jas. Mason.
Mother Garfield and other relatives were at the
house of Gen. Sheldon. The body was taken
from the car by a detachment of the regular
army in uniform, and borne to a special hearse,
followed by a distinguished guard of honor, Gen-
erals Sherman, Sheridau, Hancock, Dunn,
Meigs and naval officers, the Supreme Court,
Cabinet, Governor Foster and staff, and a large
number of army and navy troops. The route
takes down Euclid avenue, and the remains
were placed without ceremony in the pavillion
to lie in state in a bed of flowers.
	The catafalque on which Garfield's remains
laid in state occupied the centre of Monu-
mental Park and was imposing in architecture
and dimensions. A platform was erected
five feet six inches above the ground, approach-
ed by a gentle incline from the east and west.
Upon this square was a pavillon, covered by
a canopy, at the apex of which was a large
globe, upon which stood the figure of an
angel represented in the attitude of blessing,
the hands extended in sorrow and benedictive
love over the mourning throng below. Its
wings were extended, the snowy tips approach-
ing above. Dimensions of pavilion—main part,
45 feet square; on each of the four sides an open
arch, 24 feet wide and 30 feet high; the canopy
tapered to an apex 72 feet above the ground;
globe nearly five feet in diameter; statue, 24 feet
in height, its wing tips being at a total altitude
of 96 feet above the ground. The keystone of
each arch was an eagle decorated with the
emblem of mourning. The four columns of the
angles of the pavilion were surmounted by
minarets 22 feet high, fashioned of festooned
flags. Projecting from each corner was a
magnificent banner. Around the entire pavilion
was a decorated cornice. The whole struc-
ture was profusely festooned with black and
white drapery blended with artistic simplicity.
Florists impoverished their greenhouses in
furnishing floral decorations. These were
most elaborate. Laurel wreaths filled up the
niches in the structure. Draped cannons were
at each corner of the platform. imposing
projections were constructed at the base for
this purpose. The casket containing the re-
mains was placed in the centre of this
pavilion, upon a slight elevation and guarded by
a force of soldiery. 
	The casket was placed by pall bearers on the
dais underneath the canopy supported by four
gilt Egyptian columns. On account of the feel-
ings of the widow the face was not exposed,
but instead was placed an admirable copy of a
likeness taken by J. T. Ryder on Garfield's re-
turn from the Chicago Convention, a most
natural portrait. On the shelves of the pavilion
on either side were a multitude of floral offerings,
conspicuous among which were a cross from
Erie Commandery Knights Templars, inscribed
in flowerets, "Garfield," a unique monogram
emblem with an inscription in flowers, "Detta
Ipsilon fraternity to the memory of our brother;"
a floral piece surmounted by a dove with the seal
of Cincinnati wrought in blossoms, "Juiaia Ju-
vant;" a piece from Washington, in elaborate
design representing the gates ajar; an open book
with "God reigns," in roses; a broken column
from Washington, a cross and a crown; an ex-
quisite piece from Cincinnati; representing a
field, a broken wheel, a sheaf of wheat and the
motto, "The harvest is over;" a floral standing
scroll surmounted by a white dove; a floral pillow,
with "Rest in Peace," similarly wrought; a
magnificent floral representation of a ship
stranded and dismantled; an open book with a
cross and dove; a pillow surmounted by a white
dove, and "Our Martyred President," inscribed;
two handsome lyres; another broken column; two
shields; another anchor and a cross, at the base
of which is the inscription, "Gone, but not for-
gotten;" a scroll with "Peace" worked in buds;
a lyre, pillow and shields; a broken column, with

[Column 2]
a card marked, "With the Sympathies of the
Washington Council, True United Americans;"
a crown over a pillow; a floral urn; a broken col-
umn of tube roses, from Joseph Perkins; an
urn; a large dove perching upon an anchor and
a crown; a large broken column on a pedestal; an
open book, inscribed, "Thy Will Be Done;" a
lyre and laurel wreath; a wheat field with wheat
in the corner, and the inscription, "Gathered;"
a column as a headstone of a grave, with the
inscription, "Garfield, a Bearer to Posterity;" a
large green cross with a wreath: an anchor,
chain and a motto, "Rest in Peace;" a floral rep-
resentation of the gates ajar, and a withered,
broken column. Because the pavilion decorations
were not entirely finished, none outside of the
committee were admitted to the pavilion during
the night. According to the wish of the widow,
the casket was not opened, and when the
lines were opened to the public, spectators
had to be content with observing the casket
with the portrait at the head, and the inscrip-
tion:

"Life's race well run,
Life's work well done,
Life's crown well won;
Now comes rest."

	The morning opened cloudy, but by 8 o'clock
the sky was cloudless and the day a perfect one
throughout. The streets were thronged with
surging crowds. 
	It seemed as if Cleveland was in the cen-
tre of the world. Every individual that
contributed to compose the largest crowd that
was probably ever assembled in Ohio, seemed to
feel this. From the great public square in the
central part of the city to the hills and solemn
dales of Lakeview Cemetery, a distance of six
miles, there was a continuous wall of people on
either side. The funeral train passed nearly
the whole way along that magnificent broad and
grand avenue which the great American travel-
er, Bayard Taylor, pronounced the finest in the
world. The abodes of luxury and wealth on
either side appeared heavily draped in the habili-
ments of mourning. A favorite view which
Garfield took of humanity was that of the great
Pascal. He was often heard by his friends to
compare the nation to one colossal man. Were
he alive again, and could he have seen crape
on the door-posts of the entire country that day,
he would have been better satisfied with the
truth of his favorite illustration than ever
before. He would have seen the colossal man
with uncovered head, bent in tears and inconsol-
able in his grief. The modest unassuming wife
of the President desired no display, but her dead
husband is glorious now and famed," and the
people must give proper expression to their great
grief. She remained away as long as possible
from the park devoted to the obsequies, and her
grief seemed only aggravated by what was done
there. A mass of anxious people sixteen years
ago in the same place beheld the form of the
martyr Lincoln. That was a time of excite-
ment and of war almost, and it took but a spark
to ignite a great fire. But the crowd of that day,
while it was far greater than ever before in the
city, was docile and solemn and seemed only
desirous of contributing its small mite toward
properly burying a dead hero in whom it had
more than a passing interest. 
	Promptly at 10:30 the ceremonies at the pa-
vilion began. The immediate members of the
family and near relatives and friends took seats
about the casket, and at each corner was sta-
tioned a member of the Cleveland Grays, each of
whom stood like a statue during the entire pro-
gramme. The committee members about the
pavilion were almost cloaked in crape, their
draping being very heavy. The exercises opened
by the singing by the Cleveland Vocal Society
of the "Funeral Hymn," by Beethoven, as
follows:
Thou are gone to the grave, but we will not deplore
		thee,
	Tho sorrow and darkness encompass the tomb,
The Savior has passed thro' its portal before thee,
	And the lamp of His love is thy light thro' the gloom.

	Passages from the Scripture were then read
by the Right Rev. Bishop Bedell, of the Episco-
pal diocese of Ohio:
	"Man that is born of a woman is of few days,
and full of trouble.
	"He cometh forth like a flower, and is cut
down: the fleeth also as a shadow, and continu-
eth not," etc.
	The Rev. Ross C. Houghton, pastor of the
First M. E. Church, then offered up prayer. 
	At this point the vocal society sang, "To Thee,
Oh Lord, I yield my Spirit," etc. Rev. Isaac

[Column 3]
Everett, of Cincinnati, then delivered an elo-
quent address, taking for his text, II Chronicles,
xxxiii, 23, 27. This is a time of mourning that
has no parallel in the history of the world. 
Death is constantly occurring, and every day,
and every hour and almost every moment, some
life expires, and somewhere there are broken
hearts and desolation, but we have to adopt mor-
tality, and we stay a moment and drop a tear
and away again to excitements and ambitions
and forget it all. A man is called that plunges
a large community in mourning, and sometimes
whole nations mourn the loss of a king, or a
wise statesman, or a friend, or a great philoso-
pher, or philanthropist, or a martyr, who has
risked his life on the altar of truth and won for
himself an anxious immortality among the sons
of men; but there was never a mourning in all
the world like unto this mourning. I am not
speaking extravagantly when I say it far surpas-
ses the result of calculation carefully made from
such data as is found that certainly not less than
300,000,000 of the human race shared in the sor-
row and lamentations that belong to this occa-
sion here to-day. Its piercing chill has extend-
ed itself into every home in all this land, and
into every heart, and that has projected itself
over vast seas and oceans into distant lands, and
awakened the most sincere and profound sym-
pathy with us in the hearts of good people of all
nations and among all people. 
	The whole discourse was eloquent and ex-
pressive and was listened to with most earnest
attention. 
	The Rev. Jabez Hall then read President
Garfield's favorite hymn, which was beautifully
rendered by the vocal society, beginning:

"Hot reapers of life's harvest,
	Why stand with rusted blade,
Until the night draws round thee
	And day begins to fade?"

	President Hinsdale, of Hyrum College, made
a short and impressive prayer. Dr. Chas. T.
Pomeroy delivered the final benediction. Then
the Washington Marine Band played "Nearer
my God to Thee."
	The funeral procession moved from Monu-
mental Park at 11.53 o'clock. The time occu-
pied in moving the casket from the pavilion to
the funeral car was about 15 minutes. A corps
of United States marines from the steamer
Michigan formed parallel lines from the east
side of the pavilion to the the east entrance to the
park, through which the casket was borne on
the shoulders of United States artillerymen,
under the command of Lieutenant Weaver to
the funeral car, followed by mourners, who took
seats in the carriage. Grandma Garfield bore the
services remarkably well, as did also the widow
of the President. The only incident which oc-
curred at the pavilion was the request of Grand-
ma Garfield for a drink of water. Many people
construed this as an indication that the old lady
was faint, but such was not the case.
	Re-entering their carriages, the mourners
drove hurriedly back to avoid another shower
which threatened. Tke military and Masonic
escort left the cemetery in the same order in
which they entered, and kept in line until the
catafalque was reached, where they were dis-
missed. General Smith, adjutant-general of the
State, will furnish a guard as long as the body
remains in the vault. The sexton thinks it will
be but a few days until the final interment takes
place. Mrs. Garfield, while at the cemetery,
said she did not think there was sufficient
time to prepare the grave for interment,
and the ca[---]t was therefore placed in a
vault at the cemetery. At 10 o'clock in the
morning there were 5,000 on the ground; at 12
o'clock the Fourteenth Ohio National Guard,
500 in number, arrived and cleared the grounds
of all strangers, and no one was allowed to en-
ter until the funeral party arrived. At the
vault were Company D, of the Fourteenth Ohio
N. G., and a number of ladies engaged in trim-
ming the dais and draping the vault in deep
black crape. The dais used to lay the coffin on
in the vault was covered with velvet, trimmed
with black broadcloth and deep black fringe.
The pathway from the carriageway, where the
cortege stepped into the vault was covered with
ceder-laid lawn, neatly sewed together. On the
top of this was scattered white flowers, immor-
telles, tuberoses, etc.; right in front of the gate
at the emtrance to the vault was spread a large
piece of carpet covered with tuberoses and other
white flowers. This is covered over with a
canopy of deep black broadcloth. Just outside
the vault, at the gate, there was a crown of ele-
gant white flowers placed with the motto "dead,
but not forgotten." It was from the Bolivian
delegation.


70	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 71


72	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


After the procession had departed toward the
cemetery in the afternoon,an order was given the
guards to admit all who desired into the pavilion,
and they passed through the building, casting
lingering glances at the deserted bier. The
scene was one of the most expressive of the
entire day. Despite the rain fall which
occurred between 3 and 4 o'clock, people filed
in unprotected. Not less than 30,000 souls paid
this unusual tribute to the glory of the dead
President.


<i yii="" ra="" ul="" gu<="" l.="" 3l="" l="" a.="" and="" reports,="" primary="" il!="" tiht="" i="" bora="" we,="" could,="" fiiake="" them="" lighter,="" would="" not="" be;="" so="" weary,="" &c-="" mrs.="" presendia="" h.="" kimball,="" in="" her="" remarks,-="" thought-we="" were="" living="" in'a="" curious="" day;="" ever="" since,="" this="" chiirch="" had="" been="" organized="" w.e="" a="" peculiar="" time.="" we="" have="" called,="" .upon="" to="" lose="" the="" president="" of="" church="" by="" assassin’s="" “handy="" know;="" how-="" sympathize="" with="" -the="" nation="" for="" dur="" prophet="" was="" 'slain.="" hope="" and!="" pray="" that="" god="" will="" soften="" heart="" arthup="" toward="" ibis="" people,-="" all="" things="" may.="" work="" together="" good="" the.="" whole="" human="" fam-="" ily,="" &c.="" ’="" thvs="" emi-anbual="" relief="" society="" -conference="" '1="" m;="" wt1:wilcox="" expressed="" aher‘interest="" of!salt;lsake-stake="" wasr-held-in="" the-14th="" ward-ffi="" tlfttthejwork="" sisters;="" feltthebe'.eonfer-="" assembly="" rooms="" in.="" this1="" city="" friday,'="" sbpt.'23,="" -commencing="" at.="" ten.="" o-’clock,="" m.="" isabella="" -horne="" presiding7.-="" -="" 'after="" usual="" exercises="" singing-="" prayer,="" minutes="" last="" quarterly="" conference="" read,="" followed="" remarks="" from-="" pfes.="" 31..="" i.="" horne="" upon="" du-="" ties'="" labors="" jthe="" sisters="" improving..="" themselves="" helping="" great="" w.ork="" latter="" days,="" much="" good,="" counsel="" 'instruction.-="" 4="" '“.counselorelmina="" si'tbylorexhorted="" 'the="" sisters-most="" earnestly="" he.="" alive="" tothejimpor-="" tance="" in,which="" theyaaff="" enlisted.="" gave="" a-glowing="" :description="" iof="" ;ladies’="" she="" 'had="" recently="" attended="" bear="" lake="" stake'and="" diligence="" 6t="" locality;="" gav"?)hie="" 'good="" timely="" in-:="" struction,="" sectaries,="" urgd="" tbem="" jences="" ivjsre="" the,="" places="" where,="" wp.="" received="" in-="" structions="" regard="" special="" departments="" assisting="" build="" up="" kingdom="" theearth.-="" '="" 3irs.="" elizabeth="" howard="" 'urged="" greater="" diligence'in'="" spmtuat="" duties,="" make="" ore="" progress="" 'that,="" pertains="" [="" higher,="" life.="" exhorted="" them;="" to;-uiliy"="" meekness="" beware.="" proud="" haughty="" spirit.<;,="" --h;="" mra.r="" ii.="" spoke="" very="" 'forcibly="" hnd="" eloquently="" .the="" great'events="" now="" tak-="" ing="" place="" this,="" nation,="" said="" lord="" bnng.about.his.="" purposes="" no="" matter="" whorpjes.="" referred="" prophecies="" joseph="" .smith,="" 'all="" world="" -would="" be="" against="" its;="" read="" j?="" some="" paragraphs="" frdiii="" book="" "of="" doctrine="" ?="" covenant,and="" advised="" tb,r6ad="" tne;p="" rpwplutmno-="" morln="" 1..="" prompt="" ppjfrect.="" making="" out="" reports.="" ;="" b="" these="" revelations;-="" madc="" further="" interesting="" re-="" ...="" .="" 1="" z="" r="" il="" -1="" 11.="" fl="" w="" nlrn'="" nnnn="" +="" v,="" rl="" spoke,="" too="" changes="" trans-="" piring'in="" thfe,’atrth="" among="" nations,="" thought="" it,="" should="" inspire="" saints="" zeal="" -iv="" rie="" perforn?ancc.="" all-good="" works;="" t.many="" .other="" $htngsv="" 8i;="" alter="" singing="" .and="" prayermeeting="" adjourned="" until="" two'o’clock="" p.falm="" '-’afterhopn="" sessibn:="" y="" after="" usual’,opening="" marks'upon="" other="" subjects.!="" mary="" a-freeze="" thought-'there="" was'="" force="" words="" “be="" weary="" well-="" doing,”.and.entreated,the="" sit’crs'="" live="" every="" known="" .duty,="" foreyery.one="" must="" answer="" himselff="" or="" herself,="" power.can="" .take="" away="" our="" reward="" if1="" pi'ove="" faithful.="" cannont:="" he-="" often="" exercises,="" .treasiirer’s="" ‘report'="" stake="" ,j="" thoiight="" sisters’="" meetibgs,‘and="" wdufd="" organization="" k="" s’,="" read.="" and.yhccepted..="" h="" :glad="" attenpthem="" oftener.,="" hp="" bathsheba="" wi.="" smith="" .then="" made,="" few="" tn,r="">[Column 1]
R. S. Y. L. M. I. A.<i yii="" ra="" ul="" gu<="" l.="" 3l="" l="" a.="" and="" reports,="" primary="" il!="" tiht="" i="" bora="" we,="" could,="" fiiake="" them="" lighter,="" would="" not="" be;="" so="" weary,="" &c-="" mrs.="" presendia="" h.="" kimball,="" in="" her="" remarks,-="" thought-we="" were="" living="" in'a="" curious="" day;="" ever="" since,="" this="" chiirch="" had="" been="" organized="" w.e="" a="" peculiar="" time.="" we="" have="" called,="" .upon="" to="" lose="" the="" president="" of="" church="" by="" assassin’s="" “handy="" know;="" how-="" sympathize="" with="" -the="" nation="" for="" dur="" prophet="" was="" 'slain.="" hope="" and!="" pray="" that="" god="" will="" soften="" heart="" arthup="" toward="" ibis="" people,-="" all="" things="" may.="" work="" together="" good="" the.="" whole="" human="" fam-="" ily,="" &c.="" ’="" thvs="" emi-anbual="" relief="" society="" -conference="" '1="" m;="" wt1:wilcox="" expressed="" aher‘interest="" of!salt;lsake-stake="" wasr-held-in="" the-14th="" ward-ffi="" tlfttthejwork="" sisters;="" feltthebe'.eonfer-="" assembly="" rooms="" in.="" this1="" city="" friday,'="" sbpt.'23,="" -commencing="" at.="" ten.="" o-’clock,="" m.="" isabella="" -horne="" presiding7.-="" -="" 'after="" usual="" exercises="" singing-="" prayer,="" minutes="" last="" quarterly="" conference="" read,="" followed="" remarks="" from-="" pfes.="" 31..="" i.="" horne="" upon="" du-="" ties'="" labors="" jthe="" sisters="" improving..="" themselves="" helping="" great="" w.ork="" latter="" days,="" much="" good,="" counsel="" 'instruction.-="" 4="" '“.counselorelmina="" si'tbylorexhorted="" 'the="" sisters-most="" earnestly="" he.="" alive="" tothejimpor-="" tance="" in,which="" theyaaff="" enlisted.="" gave="" a-glowing="" :description="" iof="" ;ladies’="" she="" 'had="" recently="" attended="" bear="" lake="" stake'and="" diligence="" 6t="" locality;="" gav"?)hie="" 'good="" timely="" in-:="" struction,="" sectaries,="" urgd="" tbem="" jences="" ivjsre="" the,="" places="" where,="" wp.="" received="" in-="" structions="" regard="" special="" departments="" assisting="" build="" up="" kingdom="" theearth.-="" '="" 3irs.="" elizabeth="" howard="" 'urged="" greater="" diligence'in'="" spmtuat="" duties,="" make="" ore="" progress="" 'that,="" pertains="" [="" higher,="" life.="" exhorted="" them;="" to;-uiliy"="" meekness="" beware.="" proud="" haughty="" spirit.<;,="" --h;="" mra.r="" ii.="" spoke="" very="" 'forcibly="" hnd="" eloquently="" .the="" great'events="" now="" tak-="" ing="" place="" this,="" nation,="" said="" lord="" bnng.about.his.="" purposes="" no="" matter="" whorpjes.="" referred="" prophecies="" joseph="" .smith,="" 'all="" world="" -would="" be="" against="" its;="" read="" j?="" some="" paragraphs="" frdiii="" book="" "of="" doctrine="" ?="" covenant,and="" advised="" tb,r6ad="" tne;p="" rpwplutmno-="" morln="" 1..="" prompt="" ppjfrect.="" making="" out="" reports.="" ;="" b="" these="" revelations;-="" madc="" further="" interesting="" re-="" ...="" .="" 1="" z="" r="" il="" -1="" 11.="" fl="" w="" nlrn'="" nnnn="" +="" v,="" rl="" spoke,="" too="" changes="" trans-="" piring'in="" thfe,’atrth="" among="" nations,="" thought="" it,="" should="" inspire="" saints="" zeal="" -iv="" rie="" perforn?ancc.="" all-good="" works;="" t.many="" .other="" $htngsv="" 8i;="" alter="" singing="" .and="" prayermeeting="" adjourned="" until="" two'o’clock="" p.falm="" '-’afterhopn="" sessibn:="" y="" after="" usual’,opening="" marks'upon="" other="" subjects.!="" mary="" a-freeze="" thought-'there="" was'="" force="" words="" “be="" weary="" well-="" doing,”.and.entreated,the="" sit’crs'="" live="" every="" known="" .duty,="" foreyery.one="" must="" answer="" himselff="" or="" herself,="" power.can="" .take="" away="" our="" reward="" if1="" pi'ove="" faithful.="" cannont:="" he-="" often="" exercises,="" .treasiirer’s="" ‘report'="" stake="" ,j="" thoiight="" sisters’="" meetibgs,‘and="" wdufd="" organization="" k="" s’,="" read.="" and.yhccepted..="" h="" :glad="" attenpthem="" oftener.,="" hp="" bathsheba="" wi.="" smith="" .then="" made,="" few="" tn,r=""><i yii="" ra="" ul="" gu<="" l.="" 3l="" l="" a.="" and="" reports,="" primary="" il!="" tiht="" i="" bora="" we,="" could,="" fiiake="" them="" lighter,="" would="" not="" be;="" so="" weary,="" &c-="" mrs.="" presendia="" h.="" kimball,="" in="" her="" remarks,-="" thought-we="" were="" living="" in'a="" curious="" day;="" ever="" since,="" this="" chiirch="" had="" been="" organized="" w.e="" a="" peculiar="" time.="" we="" have="" called,="" .upon="" to="" lose="" the="" president="" of="" church="" by="" assassin’s="" “handy="" know;="" how-="" sympathize="" with="" -the="" nation="" for="" dur="" prophet="" was="" 'slain.="" hope="" and!="" pray="" that="" god="" will="" soften="" heart="" arthup="" toward="" ibis="" people,-="" all="" things="" may.="" work="" together="" good="" the.="" whole="" human="" fam-="" ily,="" &c.="" ’="" thvs="" emi-anbual="" relief="" society="" -conference="" '1="" m;="" wt1:wilcox="" expressed="" aher‘interest="" of!salt;lsake-stake="" wasr-held-in="" the-14th="" ward-ffi="" tlfttthejwork="" sisters;="" feltthebe'.eonfer-="" assembly="" rooms="" in.="" this1="" city="" friday,'="" sbpt.'23,="" -commencing="" at.="" ten.="" o-’clock,="" m.="" isabella="" -horne="" presiding7.-="" -="" 'after="" usual="" exercises="" singing-="" prayer,="" minutes="" last="" quarterly="" conference="" read,="" followed="" remarks="" from-="" pfes.="" 31..="" i.="" horne="" upon="" du-="" ties'="" labors="" jthe="" sisters="" improving..="" themselves="" helping="" great="" w.ork="" latter="" days,="" much="" good,="" counsel="" 'instruction.-="" 4="" '“.counselorelmina="" si'tbylorexhorted="" 'the="" sisters-most="" earnestly="" he.="" alive="" tothejimpor-="" tance="" in,which="" theyaaff="" enlisted.="" gave="" a-glowing="" :description="" iof="" ;ladies’="" she="" 'had="" recently="" attended="" bear="" lake="" stake'and="" diligence="" 6t="" locality;="" gav"?)hie="" 'good="" timely="" in-:="" struction,="" sectaries,="" urgd="" tbem="" jences="" ivjsre="" the,="" places="" where,="" wp.="" received="" in-="" structions="" regard="" special="" departments="" assisting="" build="" up="" kingdom="" theearth.-="" '="" 3irs.="" elizabeth="" howard="" 'urged="" greater="" diligence'in'="" spmtuat="" duties,="" make="" ore="" progress="" 'that,="" pertains="" [="" higher,="" life.="" exhorted="" them;="" to;-uiliy"="" meekness="" beware.="" proud="" haughty="" spirit.<;,="" --h;="" mra.r="" ii.="" spoke="" very="" 'forcibly="" hnd="" eloquently="" .the="" great'events="" now="" tak-="" ing="" place="" this,="" nation,="" said="" lord="" bnng.about.his.="" purposes="" no="" matter="" whorpjes.="" referred="" prophecies="" joseph="" .smith,="" 'all="" world="" -would="" be="" against="" its;="" read="" j?="" some="" paragraphs="" frdiii="" book="" "of="" doctrine="" ?="" covenant,and="" advised="" tb,r6ad="" tne;p="" rpwplutmno-="" morln="" 1..="" prompt="" ppjfrect.="" making="" out="" reports.="" ;="" b="" these="" revelations;-="" madc="" further="" interesting="" re-="" ...="" .="" 1="" z="" r="" il="" -1="" 11.="" fl="" w="" nlrn'="" nnnn="" +="" v,="" rl="" spoke,="" too="" changes="" trans-="" piring'in="" thfe,’atrth="" among="" nations,="" thought="" it,="" should="" inspire="" saints="" zeal="" -iv="" rie="" perforn?ancc.="" all-good="" works;="" t.many="" .other="" $htngsv="" 8i;="" alter="" singing="" .and="" prayermeeting="" adjourned="" until="" two'o’clock="" p.falm="" '-’afterhopn="" sessibn:="" y="" after="" usual’,opening="" marks'upon="" other="" subjects.!="" mary="" a-freeze="" thought-'there="" was'="" force="" words="" “be="" weary="" well-="" doing,”.and.entreated,the="" sit’crs'="" live="" every="" known="" .duty,="" foreyery.one="" must="" answer="" himselff="" or="" herself,="" power.can="" .take="" away="" our="" reward="" if1="" pi'ove="" faithful.="" cannont:="" he-="" often="" exercises,="" .treasiirer’s="" ‘report'="" stake="" ,j="" thoiight="" sisters’="" meetibgs,‘and="" wdufd="" organization="" k="" s’,="" read.="" and.yhccepted..="" h="" :glad="" attenpthem="" oftener.,="" hp="" bathsheba="" wi.="" smith="" .then="" made,="" few="" tn,r=""> AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

	The Semi-Annual Relief Society Conference
of Salt Lake Stake was held in the 14th Ward
Assembly rooms in this city Friday, Sept. 23,
commencing at ten o'clock, Mrs. M. Isabella
Horne presiding. After the usual exercises of
singing and prayer, the minutes of the last
Quarterly Conference were read, followed by
remarks from Pres. M. I. Horne upon the du-
ties and labors of the sisters in improving
themselves and helping in the great work of
the latter days, and much good counsel and
instruction.
	Counselor Elmina S. Taylor exhorted the
sisters most earnestly to be alive to the impor-
tance of the work in which they had enlisted.
Gave a glowing description of the Ladies'
Conference she had recently attended in Bear
Lake Stake, and the diligence of the sisters in
that locality; gave some good and timely in-
struction to the secretaries, and urged them to
be prompt and correct in making out reports.
She spoke, too, of the great changes now trans-
piring in the earth and among the nations, and
thought it should inspire the Saints with zeal
in the performance of all good works; and said
many other good things.
	After singing and prayer, meeting adjourned
until two o'clock P. M.
	Afternoon session: After the usual opening
exercises, the Treasurer's report of the Stake
organization of R. S. was read and accepted.
Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith then made a few
suggestive and encouraging remarks.
	Mrs. Phebe Woodruff exhorted the sisters to
so arrange their household matters they might
have time to attend these meetings, which
would help to educate them, and give them
spiritual strength; said, "let us be careful to
perform the smallest duties in our daily lives."
Spoke of the work to be done in Temples for
the living and the dead.
	Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball said this is an event-
ful time; there is much to be done by all. It
is refreshing to witness the zeal manifested by
the people of Sanpete County in helping to
build the Temple at Manti. She had lately
visited the Woman's Conference at Tooele;
there were large congregations, many brethren
attended the meetings and seemed to enjoy
them. She then related a very interesting cir-
cumstance about a Peace Conference held in
London about forty years ago. If we act well
our part we have nothing to fear. There never
was a time when there was such universal
mourning as there is now in this nation. Presi-
dent Garfield was not shot down from personal
spite, it was an attack upon the government,
and on all governments. The "Doctrine and
Covenants" says, "Pray for the leaders of the
government;" I think we should all pray for
them, that they may act wisely and peacefully.
I pray God to bless President Arthur and his
Cabinet, that they may rule in righteousness,
and that we as a people may be able to live in
righteousness and peace.
	Mrs. Sarepta M. Heywood said: We are a
part of the great American nation, and if our
prayers are offered up in a right manner they
will tend to good; if we are humble the Lord
will help us. If we could only understand we
are a great spoke in the wheel of government.
If we could learn to systematize our many la[-]

[Column 2]
bors we could make them lighter, and we would
not be so weary, &c.
	Mrs. Presendia H. Kimball, in her remarks,
thought we were living in a curious day; ever
since this Church had been organized we had
been living in a peculiar time. We have been
called upon to lose the President of the Church
by the assassin's hand, and we know how to
sympathize with the nation, for our Prophet
was slain. I hope and pray that God will
soften the heart of President Arthur towards
this people, and that all things may work
together for good for the whole human fam-
ily, &c.
	Mrs. M. W. Wilcox expressed her interest
in the work of the sisters; felt these confer-
ences were the places where we received in-
structions in regard to the special departments
of work in assisting to build up the kingdom
of God upon the earth.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Howard urged the sisters to
greater diligence in spiritual duties, and to
make more progress in all that pertains to a
higher life. Exhorted them to humility and
meekness, and to beware of a proud and
haughty spirit.
	Mrs. M. Isabella Horne spoke very forcibly
and eloquently upon the great events now tak-
ing place in this nation, and said the Lord will
bring about His purposes no matter who rules.
Referred to the prophecies of Joseph Smith,
that all the world would be against us; read
some paragraphs from the Book of Doctrine
and Covenants and advised the sisters to read
these revelations; made further interesting re-
marks upon this and other subjects.
	Mrs. Mary A. Freeze thought there was
much force in the words "be not weary in well-
doing," and entreated the sisters to live up to
every known duty, for every one must answer
for himself or herself, and no power can take
away our reward if we prove faithful.
	President A. M. Cannon said he often
thought of the sisters' meetings, and would be
glad to attend them oftener. He had been
much pleased with the children's Primary Fair,
thought it would result in much good. Said,
"As I heard Sister Horne read the word of the
Lord to us, I thought mothers should prompt
their children to noble acts, and especially to
be honest and upright in every act of their
lives." Exhorted mothers to make such im-
pressions upon the little ones as would be last-
ing, and counsel girls in regard to marriage,
that they might not degrade themselves by
allying themselves to those not in the covenant,
but seek to keep the first estate by being
faithful; made many excellent remarks upon
this subject. Was much gratified to see the
improvement being made among the good of
this people; the line was being drawn by our-
selves.
	Some special business was transacted, and
Pres. M. I. Horne reminded the sisters of the
responsibility resting upon them in regard to
storing up grain and purchasing all they could
with the money they had now on hand; also to
recollect the silk industry, and try to influence
as many as possible to take hold of this em-
ployment. Said Sister Woodruff had sug-
gested that we make a little carpeting in each
society for the Logan Temple. Conference
was then adjourned until December next.
Singing, Doxology. Benediction by President
A. M. Cannon.
					E. HOWARD, Sec'y.

MEDOWVILLE.

	The Primary Association held their Quar-
terly Conference Saturday, September 10, 1881.
The exercises consisted of selections, dialogues,
recitations and songs. A dialogue was spoken
by three little girls, one aged nine years, who
was the author of it. After these exercises,
there was an exhibition of the things that the

[Column 3]
children had made for the Paris Fair, which
consisted of scarfs, tidies, mottoes, wool flowers,
chair cushions and stockings; all were very
nice, as our Association is small.
		MARGARET J. ELDREDGE, Sec'y.


AN order for a bas-relief bust of the late
Dean Stanley has been given by her Majesty
the Queen to Miss Grant, the dean's niece.

	THE "father" of the English House of
Commons is Mr. Christopher Talbot, who has
sat continuously for Glamorganshire since 1830.

	BERNE, Sept. 12.—A land-slip occurred last
evening near the village of Elm in the canton
of Glarus. Two hundred persons were killed
and thirty houses destroyed.

	GEROME's latest picture represents Raphael
admiring from a scaffolding Michael Angelo's
frescoes on the ceiling of the Sistine chapel.
The perspective is said to be something won-
derful.

	YOUNG Mr. Hoar is a big boy now, but he
should think of his mother when tempted to
compare Mrs. Mary A. Livermore with a trained
monkey. A man of the people, now mourned
by the wide world, never forgot to pay respect
to his mother and to women. Let it be remem-
bered that this excellent woman who helped
represent the town of Melrose in yesterday's
republican convention at Worcester has done
more to serve the republican party than the
son of Judge Hoar, of Concord. More, too,
than Mr. Henry Cabot Lodge of Nahant.—Ex.

	GOVERNMENT APPOINTMENT OF A LADY IN
MADRAS.—The Calcutta correspondent of the
Times says: It has been reserved for Madras,
the so-called benighted Presidency, to be the
first to recognize the claims of women to im-
portant official positions. The Gazette an-
nounces the appointment of a lady, Miss Pog-
son, to be meteorological reporter to the Gov-
ernment of that Presidency. Miss Pogson has
for some years discharged with great ability
the duties of Assistant Government Astrono-
mer.—Ex.


A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt, and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Spring and Summer Goods. ☜
DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Department for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods; Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 10.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1881.	NO. 10.


WRITTEN IN SICKNESS, WHEN VERY
YOUNG.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

Oh! death! when thou art sent to call.
	My lagging Soul away,
Come not enwrapt in funeral pall
	And all thy dread array;

But friendly, softly, gently come,
	And whisper in mine ear—
I come to bear thy spirit Home
	Fly with me! never fear!

Enwrape thy form in sweet disguise,
	Thy voice, in sweetest tone—
Stand not before my startled eyes
	In thy gaunt case of bone?

But if I must thy form behold
	In palpable array,
Drop one by one, each screening fold.
	And fear shall flee away;

So, kindly, gently draw my breath,
	Point upward to the throne
Of Him, who laid Him down in death,
	And in the silent Tomb—

Why should I fear? Since He has died
	To rob thee of thy sting?—
Come hither Death what e'er betide
	I'll soar beneath thy wing!

Thou art His Voice to call me hence
	His Spirit guides thy Hand,
His power alone thy shafts dispense,
	Thy Mission—His command!

No more I strive—I'll go with thee,
	Gaunt Spectre! bear me hence,
My passive Soul would gladly flee
	To rest—and love intense.


[Column 1]
PEN SKETCH OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS
WOMAN.

ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.

			CONTINUED.

	In the Spring of 1879, Sister Eliza com-
menced visiting the settlements in the interest
of woman's organizations and towards the last
of April attended a large Conference in Ogden
City, thence to Box Elder for the same pur-
pose and from there proceeded on the first day
of May towards Malad valley, stopping at each
settlement in that vicinity. In each of these
places where there were a sufficient number of
children she organized a Primary Association,
and in mnay places reorganized the Y. L. M. I.
A. In Malad City assisted the presiding au-
thorities in reorganizing the Relief Society of
that place; her labors seemed indeed arduous for
one of her years, but she heeded neither cold or
storm, traveling in all kinds of weather always
cheerful and ever ready to attend to the duties
of her mission, and administer to the sick and
afflicted when ever called upon in the places
she visited.
	During the ensuing summer she made an-
other tour through a large portion of Cache,
and all of Bear Lake County, returning by
the way of Rich County. While absent she
organized Primary Associations in the different
settlements she visited, and held something
near forty meetings; assisting in organizing
other Associations in several places. In her
journeyings from place to place among the
people she has in her remarks in public and

[Column 2]
private specially dwelt upon the necessity of
home industries and home manufacture en-
couraging the [---] all in her power to set
out mulberry trees and persevere in spite of
every obstacle in the raising of cocoons, and
promoting the silk enterprise, also in braiding
straw and wearing hats and bonnets made in
Utah, instead of sending for them from abroad,
and in all matters of becoming self-sustaining
she has ever used her utmost influence.
	Traveling among the people and meeting
them in their homes Sister Eliza has become
intimately acquainted with many thousands,
and her name is a household word in the dwell-
ing places in Zion. By thus associating she
became more than ever conscious of the need
of suitable books for the children of the Saints
to use in the Primary Associations, and accord-
ingly she decided to prepare a hymn book for
the little folks, and begun gathering together
material to be used for such a work.
	In August after returning from the fatiguing
journey through the northern settlements Sister
Eliza traveled through Wasatch Co. She as-
sisted the President of that Stake in organizing
the Relief Societies, and Y.L.M.I.A., in a Stake
capacity and also aided several Bishops in
making reorganizations of Relief Societies in
their respective wards. In addition to this she
organized the children in each of the settle-
ments she visited.
	The same fall the lady visited Sevier Co., and
while there organized and performed like duties
organizing Primary Associations etc. It was
at that time she took what she facetiously
terms her "famous ride." Going over to Glen-
wood through the canon the charioteer took
the wrong route or lost his way, and drove over
places where "man never trod before" at least
not in this day and age; the road was so rough
it was impossible to keep one's seat and the
party were well jumbled up. The ladies all
took the joke or mistake good-humoredly and
Sister Eliza, it is said frequently expressed her-
self as desirous they should come out of the
forest glen "into a place where they at least
spoke the English language." Remember dear
reader this lady was at that time seventy-five
years old, and yet she made no complaint of
fatigue or weariness; and she has often told
me since how magnificent the scenery was
through which they passed in that eventful
ride.
	In December of that year she visited Ogden
and spent two weeks in going through Weber
Co., attending meetings with Relief Societies,
Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary Associations.
	At the residence of Sister Jane S. Richards
in Ogden Sister Eliza was the happy recipient
of two surprise parties arranged by the Primary
Associations of that city. The first was given
by the Third Ward P. A., and the next by the
Second Ward. There were from sixty to sev-
enty children on each occasion. who went
through a variety of exercises, singing, music,
recitations, dialogues, answering questions. etc.
	Sister Eliza in speaking of these occurrences
to me said "I never shall forget those two even-
ings." She also referred to the Conference of
the four Primary Associations of Ogden City
at that time as the crowning event of her
visit.
	In the early part of the year of 1880 Sister
Eliza spent much time in attending meetings
and organizing Primary Associations in Salt
Lake and adjoining Counties, and in assisting
the officers of these new organizations in prac-

[Column 3]
tically carrying out the counsel given by which
to conduct their meetings.
	In March Sister E.R.S.S. attended the
Conferences of Relief Societies, Y.L.M.I.A.
and P.A. of Weber Stake and took part in the
proceedings with Pres. John Taylor and Apos-
tle F.D. Richards.

To be continued.


WOMAN'S CONGRESS.

To the Members of the Association for the Ad-
vancement of Women:
	With the revolution of the year, the time
has come to invite you to attend the annual
meeting of the association. This year's Con-
gress, the ninth in order, will be held at Buf-
falo, N. Y., at St. James Hall, October 19, 20
and 21.
	These meetings were originally devised in
order to supply a need long felt and recognized,
the need of more extended intercourse, and
better acquaintance among the women who are
at once best able and most desirous to enlarge
the opportunities of their sex, and to raise the
standard of its hopes and attainments.
	The coming together from a vast and varied
extent of country of women devoted to these
objects cannot fail to do much in removing
the limits and barriers of local prejudice and
in bringing the best knowledge of each within
the reach of all.
	As years roll on the accumulation of exper-
ience makes it more and more possible for wo-
men to learn how they can best help each
other. Every good undertaking; moreover,
opens the way for some good work. The val-
ued record of our past meetings leads us to
hope that in the future their usefulness may
be increased rather than diminished; and that
we working in our day and generation, may
leave behind us results which will be helpful
to generations yet to come.
	In this hope we commend the Woman's Con-
gress of 1881 to the best efforts and best wishes
of all the members of the association.
		JULIA WARD HOWE, President.
		KATE GANNET WELLS, Secretary.


CORALIE at the Theatre Friday evening.

	THE ladies engaged in the practice and study
of medicine gave a garden party on the 5th of 
August, in the grounds of the London College
of Medicine for Women. It was attended by
a large and fashionable company of ladies and
gentlemen, many of the more prominent mem-
bers of the International Medical Congress—
especially the French, German and Russian
representatives of the profession—being among
the guests.

	MRS. Noyes, wife of the ex-Minister, during
her residence in Paris, her health being not
robust enough to permit of her going much
into society, was frequently confined to her
rooms. The thought occurred to her to unite
amusement with usefulness during her enforced
leisure. So, she sent for those well versed in
the art of making the finest artificial flowers,
and took regular lessons until she perfected
herself in that industry, intending on her re-
turn to Cincinnati to found there a class of
poor women, whom she will instruct in making
the finest artificial flowers used by ladies.


74	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SCENES  AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	The following narrative I write in words of
soberness and truth, for the benefit of the
Saints, particularly the youth in Zion, as well
as those who have been so long seeking for the
exposition of "Mormonsim," or "Polygamy,"
but have failed, because they sought not the
truth,  but have preferred to believe the extrav-
agant tales told by those who misrepresent us.
	To such as believe "Mormon" women to be
the dupes and slaves of men, I will relate the
testimonies of my sainted mother and father,
which I heard repeatedly from their own lips
in days gone by. My mother said she could
not doubt that the principle of plurality of
wives was of divine origin, for the Lord had
shown it to her in answer to prayer.
	She was a very consciencious woman, and of
such strong faith that she never doubted after
once being convinced of the truth, but she had
to be convinced before accepting any principle.
It was three weeks after my father was bap-
tized into this Church before she saw the nec-
essity of again submitting to that ordinance 
(they had both been previously baptized into
the Baptist Church), and during that period
my father mourned for her as one would mourn
for the dead.
	In Nauvoo the Prophet's life was in constant
jeopardy, not only from outside influences and
enemies, who were seeking some plea to take
him back to Missouri, but from false brethren,
who had crept into his bosom and then be-
trayed him. Therefore, when he told my fa-
ther to take a second wife, he requested him to
keep it a secret and not divulge it even to my
mother, for fear that she would not receive the
principle. Father realized the situation fully,
and the love and reverence he felt for the
Prophet was so great that he would rather have
laid down his own life than have betrayed him.
This was the greatest test of his faith he had
ever experienced.
	When first hearing the principle taught, be-
lieving that he would be called upon to enter
into it, he thought of the two Sisters Pitkin,
who, as they were both elderly ladies and great
friends of my mother's, he believed would cause
her little if any unhappiness. The woman he
was commanded to take, however, was an En-
glish lady nearer my mother's age, who came
over with her husband and two little girls with
a company of Saints in the same ship in which
President Brigham Young and my father were
returning from their second mission to Europe.
She had been reared in luxury, but had the
misfortune to be married to a man who, though
of respectable and wealthy parents, and capa-
ble of carrying on a large business in the pot-
tery line, was a very dissipated man and ran
through with his own means and all of hers
that he could obtain. She had three wealthy
brothers, who took charge of her property, to
prevent her husband from squandering it. He
loved his wife and children with all the affec-
tion of which he was capable, but was so brutal
to them when under the influence of liquor,
that twice she had been obliged to leave him
and seek refuge in the homes of her brothers;
but after many professions and promises of re-
form she was induced to return. This was pre-
vious to their hearing of "Mormonism," so they
could not very well lay it to "Polygamy."
	Upon hearing the Gospel she received it; as
also her husband, but he was not sincere. Her
brothers considered this step unpardonable, and
thought they were more disgraced by her join-
ing the awful people called "Mormons," than 
in living with a drunken and dissolute hus-
band.
	The first time I ever saw him was a few days
after their arrival in Nauvoo; he was then half
intoxicated. She was proud and very sensi-

[Column 2]
tive, and being among strangers in a strange
land, it placed her under  very peculiar and
trying circumstances. My father and mother
and the neighbors were very kind to her. They
rented a log house of a Mr. Hibbard, an old
settler in Commerce. While living in their
house, Mr.—came home so drunk that his
abusive treatment of his wife and children out-
raged the feelings of Mr. Hibbard and family,
and they interfered and drove him from the
house. His wife could no longer live with him,
and soon after he returned to England.
	This, no doubt, was the cause of father's be-
ing told by the Prophet to take her and the
children, to provide them with a home; but
the thought of deceiving the kind and faithful
wife of his youth, whom he loved with all his
heart, and who with him had borne so patiently
their separation and all the trials and sacrifices
they had been called to endure, was more than
he felt able to bear. He realized not only the
addition of trouble and perplexities that such 
a step must bring upon him, but his sorrow
and misery were increased by the thought of
my mother hearing of it from some other
source, which would no doubt separate them
forever, and he shrank from the thought of
such a thing, or of causing her any unhappi-
ness. Finally he was so tried that he went to
Joseph and told him how he felt—that he was
fearful if he took such a step he could not
stand, but would be overcome. The Prophet
went and inquired of the Lord; His answer
was: "Tell him to go and do as he has been
commanded, and if I see that there is any
danger of his apostatizing, I will take him to 
myself."
	Father was heard many a time to say that
he had shed bushels of tears over this ORDER,
the order of "Celestial or plural marriage."
	The Prophet told him the third time before
he obeyed the command. This shows that the
trial must have been extraordinary, for he was 
a man who from the first had yielded implicit
obedience to every requirement of the Prophet.
	My mother had noticed a change in his
looks and appearance, and when she enquired
the cause he tried to evade her question, say-
ing it was only her imagination, or that he was
not feeling well, etc. But it so worked upon
his mind that his anxious and haggard looks
betrayed him daily and hourly, and finally his
misery became so unbearable that it was im-
possible to control his feelings. He became
sick in body, but his mental wretchedness was 
too great to allow of his retiring at night, and
instead of going to bed he would walk, the
floor, and the agony of his mind was so terri-
ble that he would wring his hands and weep,
beseeching the Lord with his whole soul to be
merciful and reveal to his wife the cause of his
great sorrow, for he himself could not break
his vow of secrecy. His anguish, and my
mother's were indescribable, and when unable
to endure it longer, she retired to her room,
where, with a broken and contrite heart she
poured out her grief to Him who hath said:
"If any lack wisdom let him ask of God, who
giveth to all men liberally, and unbraideth
not." "Seek and ye shall find, knock and it
shall be opened unto you."
	My father's heart was raised at the same
time in supplication, and while pleading as one
would plead for  life, the vision of her mind
was opened, and as darkness fleeth before the
morning sun, so did her sorrow and the grov-
eling things of  earth vanish away; and before
her she saw the principle of Celestial Marriage
illustrated in all its beauty and glory, together
with the great exaltation and honor it would
confer upon her in that immortal and celestial
sphere if she would but accept it and stand in
her place by her husband's side. She was also
shown the woman he had taken to wife, and
contemplated with joy the vast and boundless
love and union which this order would bring

[Column 3]
about as well as the increase of kingdoms, 
power and glory extending throughout the
eternities, worlds without end.
	Her soul was satisfied and filled with the
Spirit of God. With a countenance beaming
with joy she returned to my father, saying,
"Heber, what you kept from me the Lord has
shown to me.
	She related the scene to me and to many
others, and told me she never saw so happy a
man as father was, when she described the
vision and told him she was satisfied and knew
that it was from God. She covenanted to
stand by him and honor the principle, which
covenant she faithfully kept, and though her
trials were often heavy and grievous to bear, 
her integrity was unflinching to the end.

To be continued.


A GOOD READER.

	There is one accomplishment, in particular,
which I would earnestly recommend to you.
Cultivate assiduously the ability to read well.
I stop to particularize this, because it is so very
much neglected, and because it is so elegant,
charming and ladylike an accomplishment.
Where one person is really interested by music,
twenty are pleased by good reading. Where
one person is capable of becoming a skilful
musician, twenty may become good readers.
Where there is one occasion suitable for the
exercise of musical talent, there are twenty
for that of good reading.
	The culture of the voice necessary for read-
ing well gives a delightful charm to the same
voice in conversation. Good reading is the
natural exponent and vehicle of all good
things. It is the most effective of all commen-
taries upon the works of genius. It seems to
bring dead authors to life again and makes us
sit down familiarly with the great and good of
all ages.
	Did you ever notice what life and power the
Holy Scripture has when well read? Have
you ever heard the wonderful effects produced
by Elizabeth Fry on the criminals of Newgate,
by simply reading to them the parable of the
Prodigal Son? Princes and peers of the realm,
it is said, counted it a privilege to stand in the
dismal corridors, among felons and murderers,
merely to share with them the privilege of wit-
nessing the marvelous pathos which genius,
taste and culture could infuse into that simple
story.
	What a fascination there is in really good
reading. What a power it gives one! In the
hospital, in the chamber of the invalid, in the
nursery, in the domestic and in the social cir-
cle, among chosen friends and companions, how
it enables you to minister to the amusement,
the comfort, the pleasure of dear ones, as no
other art or accomplishment can. No instru-
ment of man's devising can reach the heart as
does that most wonderful instrument, the hu-
man voice. It is God's special gift and endow-
ment to his chosen creatures. Fold it not
away in a napkin.
	If you would double the value of all your
other acquisitions, if you would add immeas-
urably to your own enjoyment and to your
power of promoting the enjoyment of others,
cultivate with incessant care this divine gift.
No music below the skies is equal to that of
pure, silvery speech from the lips of a man or
woman of high culture.
—Ex.					JOHN S. HART.


IF man, or woman either, wishes to realize
the full power of personal beauty, it must be
by cherishing noble hopes and purposes, by
having something to do and something to live
for.—Prof. Upham


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 75


OUR JUDGE.

So many different lives, have different phases
	Wherefore we cannot tell, but this we see—
To some, "the lines have fallen in pleasant places"
	While others, day by day, must martyrs be.

Who is so perfect, who so free from guile—
	To judge another, every way aright?
God only sees, each circumstance and trial,
	And knows the warfare that His children fight.

"Tis well, the lives of all, are understood—
	By One! whose judgment, is both wise and even.
If unto some, "tis easy to be good—
	Unto the sorely tried is much forgiven.

But none of us are privileged to ignore—
	Our sense of Right, the monitor within;
The duty being nearest to our door
	We must perform, although no praise 'twill win.

E'en though misunderstood, or blamed by others,
	We must be ever to our conscience true
And from the heart, this ceaseless prayer must offer—
	What is it Lord that thou wouldst have me do?

And when to heaven, with trusting hearts and tender—
	We guidance seek, and tread the path we see—
Not unto Man, excuses need we render,
	Who reads his brother, so imperfectly.

It matters not, if high or low our place is;
	Nor even if one sky be black or bright;
Sufficient 'tis to know that One! most gracious,
	Doth in compassion, judge us all aright.

God bringeth down, He also lifteth up;
	"Promotion! cometh not from East or West"
If sweet or bitter our appointed cup—
	Shall we not drink it? trusting it is best.

Be sure of this, where much is freely given—
	There much will be expected, much, required,
But who 'gainst fearful odds has bravely striven—
	Shall be rewarded, with the bliss desired.

					EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
		S. L. City.


[Column 1]
THE GIFT OF HEALING

	Feeling a desire to inspire my sisters, and
more especially the rising generation, with faith
in the gifts and blessings of the Everlasting
Gospel, which has been restored in the day and
age in which we are privileged to live, I desire
to make a faithfal statement of a few incidents
in my life, both before and after I embraced
the Gospel, where the prayer of faith in con-
nection with the anointing with holy oil, has
been answered.	
	In the year 1840 Brothers Phineas Richards,
Samuel Parker, Joseph Ball and Wm. W.
Burt camo to the town of Mansfield, Tolland
County, Conn., my native home, bringing with
them the glad tidings of the Everlasting Gos-
pel, declaring that it had been restored with
all its gifts and blessings, and that the Lord
had spoken to an unlearned boy, had made
known His mind and will unto him, that he
was to be the honored instrument in His hands
of laying the foundation of the great Latter-
day work.
	I had at that time a dear and only sister,
who had been prostrated for three weary years,
with disease of the spine, being much of the time
[---] helpless as an snfant, only being moved from
her bed to her easy chair while her bed was
made. My father employed the best medical
assistance that could be found in that region.
One very skillful physician constantly and at
times a council of physicians. She was seven-
teen years of age when she was confined to her
bed, and the circumstance. I am about to relate
transpired when she was twenty. In all the
three years during which she had been under
medical treatment, I feel safe in saying she
had suffered death a hundred times in having
caustic preparations bound on her back to
cause issues, also blisters, se[-]ons and other se-
vere remedies known to old school physicians.
When the sores caused by this treatment were

[Column 2]
running she, was able to walk a few steps other-
wise she was as helpless as an infant until the
ordeal was repeated.
	The day previous to Brother Richard's visit
to my father's house, the physician who had
been her constant attendant for three years
told her he had done all he could for her, and
that he did not think it possible that she could
ever walk.
	Father Richards, being in the neighborhood,
heard of her affliction, visited her, and told
her it was her privilege to be healed, if she
would only have faith in God. Said the Gos-
pel had been restored, and with the gifts and
blessings whtch had been enjoyed in former
days. He spent some time in conversing with
her and my mother, trying to inspire them
with faith. He finally told them that he
should "stop with one of our neighbors over
night, and if they could exercise sufficient faith
in God and desired him to administer to her,
he would do so in the morning. He came,
anointed her with oil, administered unto her,
and to our surprise and delight she arose and
walked out into the orchard, and on the fol-
lowing Sabbath walked one and a half miles
to meeting.
	Previous to Brother Richards' administra-
tion she made a covenant, that in case she was
healed she would embrace the Gospel, which
she did.
	I well remember when I first heard a song
of Zion. It was at a prayer meeting in my
father's house when my dear sister arose and
sang as I never heard mortal sing before. She
was always of a delicate constitution, but after
she received the Gospel she seemed almost too
happy for earth, and said if she could be al-
lowed to gather with the Saints and behold the
Prophet Joseph she would be willing to die.
This privilege was granted her in the fall of
1841.
	In the summer of 1842 a gentleman from
St. Mary's, twenty-eight miles east of Nauvoo,
came there for assistance to carry on the silk
business. Sister Laurinda Robinson, who now
lives in Farmington, and my sister went to St.
Mary's for that purpose, as they were familiar
with that branch of business. On their way
there the flies annoyed the horses to such a de-
gree that they became nearly unmanageable,
so that they were afraid to ride. My sister not
being strong enough to bear the unusual fa-
tigue and exertaion of walking so much, was
taken ill upon her arrival at St. Mary's and
lived only two weeks, and was brought to Nau-
voo and buried with the Saints. There are
those in Utah who can testify to the truth of
what I have written. At the laying of the
corner stone of the Manti Temple Apostle
Franklin D. Richards visited me, and told my
mother that his father had the circumstance
written in his journal.
	I will now relate another circumstance which
occurred in my own life, after I had gathered
with the Saints at Nauvoo. I arrived there in
the spring of 1841, while my father's family
did not come until November of that year.
When they arrived I was confined to my bed
with canker in the mouth and throat. My fa-
ther procured a house as soon as possible, and
I was taken there on a bed. I continued to
get worse, and my life was despaired of. My
throat was eaten full of holes, and I could take
no nourishment, not even water, without suffer-
ing great pain in the effort to swallow. We
were living in a house with Brother Benjamin
Brown's family; he was absent in the State of
New York, on a mission, Sister Brown told
mother, that Bro. Brown had been wonderfully
blessed with the gift of healing. He came
home in a few days, and administered to me; I
was too low to exercise faith for myself, but
mother felt that I would be healed uuder Bro.
Brown's administration, which was the case, as
I was instantly healed after taking a spoonful

[Column 3]
of consecrated oil, so that I could eat anything
I desired.
	I can bear testimony that I know for myself
that the gifts and blessings of the Gospel are
received and enjoyed by the Latter-day Saints,
and that the consecrated oil is a healing balm
for every affliction to which mortals are heir;
and if the rising generation are properly
trained, they will net require drugs and medi-
cines, but will live by faith in the ordinances
of the Everlasting Gospel.
		Your sister in the Gospel,
					REBECCA WAREHAM.
	Manti, Oct. 9, 1881.


DANTE'S DREAM AT THE DEATH OF
BEATRICE.

	Probably the most important, and certainly
the largest, of Mr. Rossetti's pictures, that
called "Dante's Dream." is now for the
first publicly shown, being included in the
Liverpool Exhibition. This noble gallery
picture, the only one by the artist which is
monumental in size, has been thus described by
the painter: "It embodies Dante's dream on
the day of the death of Beatrice, in which, with
many portents and omens, he is led by love
himself to the bedside of the dead lady, and
sees other ladies covering her with a red veil
as she lies in death. The scene is a chamber
of dreams, where Beatrice is lying on a couch
recessed in the wall as if just fallen back in
death. The winged and glowing figure of love
(the pilgrim Love of the 'Vita Nuova,' wearing
the scallop-shell on his shoulder) leads by the
hand Dante, who walks, unconscious but
absorbed, as if in sleep. Love carries his arrow
pointed at the dreamer's heart, and with a
figurative apple blossom too early plucked.
Love bends over Beatrice and kisses her, as
her lover had never done. Two dream ladies
hold the pail, full of may bloom suspended for
an instant before it covers her face forever."
The pathos of this fine picture lies of course in
the consummate sadness and grave, mournful
character of the design,the dignified tenderness
of the ladies' faces as they look on the life-
parting of those who had been lovers of the
heart and mind; the stately grace of their at-
titudes, and the sober, glowing and wonderfully
rich coloring of their broad, almost statuesque
draperies, are among the most striking qualities
of this superb painting. In no technical re-
spect has it higher merits than in its style, that
rarest of all qualities in English art. The or-
iginality and power of the work affect the
visitor exactly as a first-class specimen of an old
master of high degree affects him. In saying
this we bear very high testimony indeed to the
picture's merits. In one respect this exhibition
is almost unique, no other painting of equal
pretensions by Mr. Rossetti has before been
shown in a public gallery.—London Athenosum.


O. F. Whitney's benifit at the theatre Fri-
day Evening the 21st inst.

	AN old home is like an old violin, the music
of the past is wrought into in—Catherine Sedg-
wick.

	THE Lancet says.—"The Princess Frederica
is about to establish a convalescent home for
poor women after childbirth in the neighbor-
hood of Hampton Court.

	THE bridal veil for the Princess Victoria of
Baden, who has just been married to the Crown
Prince of Sweden, was six yards long; the ends
display alternately the arms of Sweden and
Baden, and the general design is composed of
oranges and myrtles, the borders representing
work, even the foundation, has been done with
the needle at a Hirschberg lace factory.


76	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms; One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the prices of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West. Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY.	OCTOBER 15, 1881.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.

APOSTLE ORSON PRATT.

	The venerable and beloved Apostle, Orson
Pratt departed this life on the morning of Octo-
ber 3, at twenty minutes to nine o'clock. "He
has been about a year in feeble health, and at
times suffered severely with pain of a most ag-
gravating nature. Occasionally he would rally
considerably, and his frisnds entertained fond
hopes of his recovery to health and strength.
The Lord in His providence seems to have or-
dered it otherwise, and this great, grand and no-
ble man has gone behind the vail, to join the
Prophet Joseph, Hyrum the Patriarch, and
hosts of Saints who are laboring in another
sphere for the redemption of the human family.
	Brother Pratt had attained the age of three
score and ten, and on the 18th of September, the
day previous to his birthday, he spoke to a large
congregation in the Tabernacle in this city for
about twenty minutes. Many who heard him
on that occasion seemed to be deeply impressed
with the idea that it would be the last time he
would ever address a public meeting, alhough
hia voice was clear and his manner earnest and
forcible.
	"Orson Pratt was born in Hartford, Washing-
ton County, New York, September 19, 1811, and
was the son of Jared and Charity (Dickinson)
Pratt. His father was a descendant of William
Pratt, who, with his brother John, came to this
country from England with the Pilgrim Fathers,
and afterwards located at Hartford, Connecti-
cut, in June, 1636, having, as supposed, accom-
panied Rev. Thos. Hooker and others of his con-
gregation from Newton, now called Cambridge,
Massachusetts, to settle at Hartford. William
Pratt was a member of the Connecticut Legis-
lature during some twenty-five or thirty sessions,
and was one of the Judges of the first court in
New London County."
	"During Orson Pratt's boyhood "the family re-
moved to New Lebanon, in Columbia County,
where he attended school until 1825, acquiring a
common school education, and becoming famil-
iar with arithmetic and book-keeping. He also
studied the Bible. From the time he was eleven
years old, he worked at farming in different
places, attending school in the winter, going to
Lorain County, Ohio, in the fall of 1827, and in
the fall of 1828, performed a journey of nearly
seven hundred miles to Connecticut, went
thence to Long Island, and in the winter of
1829-30 studied geography, grammar and survey-
ing at a boarding academy.
	"In September, 1830, his brother, Parley P.
Pratt, who had embraced the Gospel taught by
Joseph Smith the Prophet, came with another
Elder to the place where Orson was residing, who
received their testimony and was baptized Sep-
tember 19, 1830, his birthday, being then nine-
teen years old. In the following month he
raveled two hundred miles to see the Prophet

[Column 2]
Joseph, in Fayette, Seneca County, New York,
and on the 4th of November received through
that servant of God the revelation to be found
in the Doctrine and Covenants, Section xxxiv,
lastest edition, in which he was called of God to
preach the Gospel, to lift up his voice both long
aud loud, to cry repentance, and prepare the
way before the coming of the Lord.
	"He was confirmed and ordained an Elder, De-
cember 1, 1830, and went on his first mission to
Colesville, Broome County, New York, and in
the early part of 1831, went on foot to Kirtland,
Ohio, where the Prophet had removed, a dis-
tance of seven hundred miles. He then per-
formed several missions in Ohio, Illinois and
Missouri, baptizing many converts. At a con-
ference in Amherst, Ohio, he was set apart June
25, 1832, to preside over the Elders, and was sent
on a mission to the Eastern States. February
1, 1832; he was ordained a High Priest.
	"He then traveled and preached without purse
or scrip, through Ohio, Pennsylvania, New Jer-
sey and New York City to Long Island, thence
northeast through part of Vermont into New
Hampshire, preaching and baptizing by the way
and making many converts in Bath, N. H.,
Charleston, Vermont, and then proceeding to
the southern part of Connecticut, with contin-
ued success. After laboring in these parts till
the fall of 1832, he started west, traveling some
three or four hundred miles, preaching, baptiz-
ing, ordaining men to the ministry, and laboring
in many parts of New York, and arrived in Kirt-
land, Ohio, Feb. 17, 1833, having traveled on
foot about 4,000 miles, baptized 104 persons, and
organized several new branches.
	"Here he attended the School of the Prophets
and again went East, performing another suc-
cessful mission, traveling 2,000 miles in six
months, and baptizing over fifty persons. After
laboring on the House of the Lord, he started
on Nov. 27, to visit the eastern churches, and
returned to Kirtland Feb. 13, 1834, having trav-
eled about 1,000 miles.
	"In thirteen days he was started out again, with
Elder Orson Hyde on a special mission, being
absent about two months, traveling 800 miles.
He next traveled with Zion's Camp to Missouri,
being captain of a company. July 7th he was
ordained one of the standing High Council in
Zion, visited the scattered churches in Clay
County, and in August was sent eastward, trav-
eling through Illinois and Indiana to Ohio, suf-
fering severely through fatigue and ague, arriv-
ing in Kirtland April 26, 1835, on which day he
was ordained one of the Twelve Apostles, under
the hands of David Whitmer and Oliver Cow-
dery. On May 4th he went on another mission
to the Eastern States, being absent a little over
six months. During the winter and early
spring he taught a grammar school in Kirtland,
and also studied Hebrew, and then received his
endowments in the Kirtland Temple. His next
mission was to the Canada West, on which he left
April 6, 1836, baptized many persons and raised
up several branches of the Church.
	"On July 4th he was married to Sarah M.
Bates, whom he had baptized in Sackett's Har-
bor, June 13, 1835. In the fall, having returned
to Kirtland, he studied algebra, and after pro-
viding a home for his wife, went to the State of
New York and labored in the ministry during
the winter of 1837-8. In April, 1838, the Saints
having been driven from Far West, he went
there to fulfil a revelation, and with several of
the Twelve, met at the cornerstone of the Tem-
ple, whence they parted to preach the Gospel to
foreign nations.
	"In the fall he preached through the eastern
churches, and in the spring of 1840 embarked
for England, preached nine months in Edin-
burgh, Scotland, raised up a branch of over 200
persons, and in the spring of 1841 started to re-

[Column 3]
turn to America. He went to Nauvoo, where
he took charge of a mathematical school; then
took a mission through the Eastern States in the
summer of 1843, and on his return in the fall
was elected to the City Council; helped to draw
up a memorial to Congress, and went to Wash-
ington to present it in the spring of 1844. He
labored among the churches east till the news
of the martyrdom of the Prophet was received,
when he returned to Nauvoo.
	"During the difficulties that succeeded the
death of the Prophet and Patriarch, he labored
with the Twelve, which was the presiding quo-
rum of the Church, in the management of its
affairs, shared in the expulsion from Nauvoo,
crossed the plains with the pioneers in 1847, and
on the way, when weather would permit, took
astronomical and other scientific observations,
determining, by the aid of the sextant and cir-
cle of reflection, the latitudes and longitudes of
the most prominent places, the changes of ele-
vation above sea level, etc., in anticipation of the
great highway which even then it was expected
by the Saints would span this vast continent.
He was the first to enter Salt Lake Valley, hav-
ing preceded the main body of the company
three days.
	"In 1848 he was appointed President over all
the branches of the Church in England, Scot-
land, Wales, Ireland, and adjacent counties,
starting on the 11th of May. The number of
Church members then was about eighteen thou-
sand, which, during his presidency of two years,
was increased to about twenty-six thousand. In
this short period he chartered and fitted out
from fifteen to eighteen ships loaded with Saints
for Utah. In the midst of this press of business,
he wrote some fifteen pamphlets, and published
and circulated several hundred thousand of
them in different languages. At the same time
he edited the Millennial Star, and increased its
circulation from less than four thousand to nearly
twenty-three thousand. He lectured, at differ-
ent times, to large audiences in the principal
cities of England and Scotland.
	"He returned in 1851, and in the winter of
1851 delivered a series of twelve astronomical
lectures to crowded audiences in the old Taber-
nacle, which were published in the Deseret
News. He was elected a member of the Legis-
lative Assembly during its first session, and at
each successive session when he was in the Ter-
ritory, and seven times was chosen Speaker of
the House.
	"In 1852 he was appointed on a mission to
Washington, to take the Presidential charge of
all the churches in the United States and Brit-
ish Provinces east of the Rocky Mountains, and
there published the Seer. In the spring and
summer of 1853 he again went on a mission to
Europe, returning the following year. On the
22d of April, 1856, he again went to England
and presided over the European mission, pub-
lishing more pamphlets, and returned by way
of California while the army was en route to
Utah, arriving home in January, 1858. On Sep-
tember 22, 1860, he was called on a mission to
the United States, being gone about one year.
On the 24th of April, 1864, he was set apart for
a mission to Austria. He went to that land,
but in consequence of the stringent laws was
unable to open the door of the kingdom to that
nation, but bore his testimony to the authorities
and left, going over to England, where he vis-
ited the conferences and labored assiduously, re-
turning August 4, 1867. In 1869 he went to
New York City and transcribed and published
the Book of Mormon in phonetic characters,
called the Deseret Alphabet.
	"In August, 1870, he held the famous three
days' discussion with Dr. J. P. Newman on the
subject of Polygamy, which; is printed in book
form and for sale.


[Column 1]
	"At the adjourned General Conference in 1874'
he was appointed and sustained Historian and
General Church Recorder, which position he re-
tained till his decease.
	"On the 18th of July, 1877, he once more left
to cross the ocean, this time to transcribe and
publish an edition of the Book of Mormon in
the Pitman phonetic characters. He was soon
called home, and returned on the 27th of Sep-
tember. On the 3d of September, 1878, he went
East with Apostle Joseph F. Smith, visiting
the Whitmers in Missouri, the Hill Cumorah
and other places figuring in the history of the
Church, and returned on the 3d of October. On
the 3d of December he started again for Eng-
land, to stereotype the Book of Mormon and
Doctrine and Covenants, which he arranged in
verses, with foot notes and references. From
this important and laborious mission, he returned
September 2, 1879. He visited a number of
Conferences, attended the Legislature, acting in
his usual capacity of Speaker of the House.
After that time his health was poor, he could do
little in the Historian's Office."
	He preached often afterwards in the Taberna-
cle, thrilling his hearers with his wonderful and
powerful eloquence, and also traveled and
preached considerably in the Territory, visiting
Stake Conferences, etc.
	"He was the last of the original Council of
the Twelve Apostles of this Church. He
crossed the ocean sixteen times on missions of
salvation. He found time to study the higher
mathematics, and in addition to his published
scientific books, has left an elaborate work in
manuscript on the Differential Calculus, con-
taining original principles. He was the father
of sixteen sons and sixteen daughters, and leaves
forty three grandchildren.
	"Following is a list of most of the works
which he has published: 
	Divine Authority; Kingdom of God, in four
parts; Remaakable Visions; Divine Authenticity
of the Book of Mormon, in six parts, Reply to
'Remarks on Mormonism;' Great First Cause;
New Jerusalem; Absurdities of Immaterialism; 
The Seer, in eighteen numbers; Eight Tracts
on the First Principles of the Gospel; Cubic and
Biquadratic Equations; Key to the Universe, or
a New Theory of its Mechanism; etc., etc."
	The funeral services of Apostle Orson Pratt
were held in the Tabernacle on Thursday, Oct.
6th, commencing at one o'clock.
	Directly after the morning services of the
Conference, the casket containing the remains
of the deceased was placed in a position for the
people to have an opportunity of looking upon
the face of the departed Apostle, whose voice
had so often resounded through that Tabernacle 
and in various places among the nations, and
whose arguments had carried to so many hearts
convincing proof of the truth of the everlasting
gospel. The coffin was covered with the most
lovely and fragrant flowers, woven in a variety
of beautiful designs, appropriate as symbols of
the life and labors of one who had filled the
measure of his days with honor and useful-
ness.
	The Large Tabernacle was filled in every part
by the appointed time, and it seemed appropri-
ate that the funeral services of one so long con-
nected with the Church should be held at its
semi-annual Conference, that the people from
all parts of the Territory might thus have the
opportunity of paying their last respects to one
who had been so widely known and so sincere-
ly beloved by the Latter-day Saints.
	The choir sang, "Hark from afar a funeral
knell."
	Prayer by President Joseph F. Smith.
	The choir sang, "Thon dost not weep to weep
alone."

[Column 2]
President Wilford Woodruff read from the
Book of Doctrine and Covenants, a revelation
through the Prophet Joseph Smith to Orson Pratt,
given November 4th, 18[-]0, and then proceeded
to make some remarks upon the life and labors
of his fellow-laborer. Said Brother Pratt's gar
ments were clean from the blood of this genera-
tion, and that he had studied and written mor'e
upon the Gospel and upon science than any man
in the Church. His remarks were consoling,
and his exhortation to the living earnest and im-
pressive.
	Apostle Lorenzo Snow said his feelings were
very similar to those of Bro. Woodruff; said
"Could Brother Pratt have the privilege to com-
municate with us he would say, 'Mourn not for
me, I have passed through the fiery ordeal, I
have, through the blessing of God, obtained the
victory, and there is secured to me the privilege
of receiving a body glorified. That body through
which I have ministered shall be made glorious.
I have been enabled to pass through affliction
and temptation, and obtained the victory."
	Apostle F. D. Richards also occupied a few
moments. Said Bro. Pratt's life had been dis-
tinguished by the labors of over half a century
in this cause, and spoke of him as a studious
and assiduous worker, and of the opinions of Prof.
Proctor that Bro. Pratt's works on astronomy
were entitled to the admiration and respect of
the scientific world.
	President John Taylor then addressed the con-
gregation, dwelling upon the labors of those who
bear the holy priesthood, and the mission men
had to perform who held that priesthood, both
here and behind the vail. The speaker also
made allusion to the death of Elder F. L. Young,
for whom memorial services were being held in 
connection with those of Apostle Orson Pratt.
	Prest. George Q. Cannon spoke of his feelings
on hearing of the death of Bro. Pratt, immedi-
ately followed by the sad message, bringing tid-
ings of the demise of Bro. F. L. Young, and
during the same day the accidental death of
Bro. Pullen, who fell from the top of the Tem-
ple to the ground. He spoke feelingly of Bro.
Young, his purity of life and nobility of charac-
ter, his integrity to the kingdom of God, and
expressed heartfelt sympathy for the bereaved.
	The choir sang, "Mourn not the dead who
peaceful lay." Benediction by Coun. D. H.
Wells.
	"The vast assembly remained seated while the
families of the bereaved and the leading author-
ities of the Church withdrew to attend to the
interment.
	"The remains of the departed Apostle were
then convey d to their resting place, there to
sleep until called forth by the trump of the res-
surrection. A carriage containing members of 
the Twelve, preceded the hearse in the proces-
sion; the First Presidency of the Church and
Bishop Hunter occupied the carriage which was
fifteenth from the head. Then followed an ex-
ceedingly large cortege, the whole comprised of
fifty-nine carriages filled with mourners.
	"Farewell, Brother Orson Pratt, until we meet
you in the Paradise of God, or until the bright
morning of the glorious day when they that
are in Christ shall come forth to greet the Sun
of Righteousness, and enter into their domin-
ion as Kings and Priests unto God for ever."

FERAMORZ LITTLE YOUNG.

	News was received in this city, by telegram,
on Monday morning, Oct. 3, of the death at sea
of Elder F. L. Young, of typhoid fever, one
hundred miles out of Havanna as he was re-
turning from a Mission to Mexico, in company
with Apostle Moses Thatcher. Elder Young
left home to fill this mision with Elder Thatcher

[Column 3]
November 17, 1880. While in Mexico he labor-
ed diligently, studying the Spanish language,
and assisted Elders Thatcher and Stewart in
publishing articles and pamphlets in Spanish,
to promote the spread of the gospel in that
language. His health was delicate and he
had written home to that effect,
but no serious apprehensions of immedi-
ate danger were entertained concerning him,
and he was expected home on the evening of the
2nd inst., and in fond anticipation of his arrival,
his sisters and some others went to the depot to
welcome him.

"Expecting still his advent home,
And ever met him on his way
With wishes, thinking, here to-day,
Or here to-morrow will he come."

	From this it may be imagined how unex-
pected was the news of his death the following
morning. A whole household plunged momen-
tarily into the depths of sorrow and mourn-
ing for a brother and son.
	Ferrie Young was so noble, so angelic in his
nature, so attractive in his manner, and possessed
so many manly virtues and characteris-
tics of the highest type, that to know 
him was to love him, therefore he had hosts of
friends to mourn the loss of his society. 
	Feramorz Little Young was the son of the late
President Brigham Young and Mrs. Lucy
Decker Young, and was born in Salt Lake City,
September 16, 1858. He was a studious boy, al-
ways religiously inclined and thoughtful beyond
his years. His early education was received at
the Deseret University in this city, where he
made rapid progress, and when he was scarce
sixteen, he was sent to the Naval Academy at
Annapolis, Maryland. He remained there two
years and then entered the Polytechnic Insti-
tute at Troy, New York, from which he gradu-
ated in 1880. He was greatly beloved by his as-
sociates at home and abroad.
	Brother Feramorz sleeps beneath the ocean
waves, but his rest will be as tranquil and as
sweet as though his body lay in the grave in his
own mountain home, and in the morning of the
first resurrection, when the sea gives up its
dead, he will arise and receive again the body
he laid down with the Gospel armor on—in the
service of his Lord and Master.
	May the peace of heaven rest upon the be-
reaved ones, the joy and consolation of the Holy
Spirit fill their hearts, and the bright anticipa-
tion of the future meeting behind the veil com-
fort them in their hours of grief and mourning
for the loved one gone before.

BISHOP EDWIN DILWORTH WOOLLEY.

	DIED, at his residence in the 13th Ward of
this city, just past midnight, Friday, Oct. 14,
Bishop Edwin Dilworth Woolley, aged 74 years,
3 months and 16 days.
	Bishop Woolley was well known and highly
respected among the Saints. He was born at
West Chester, Chester Co., Penn., on the 28th
of June, 1807, and was raised a Quaker. He
was baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints at Rochester, Ohio, in 1837,
emigrated to Quincy, Illinois, in 1839, and re-
moved to Nauvoo in 1840. Shared in the perse-
cutions of the Saints at the time of their expul-
sion from that ill-fated city, leaving on the 5th
of June, 1846, and proceeded with his family to
Winter Quarters. He came to Utah in Presi-
dent Brigham Young's company in 1848, and 
has ever since resided in S. L. City.
	In November of 1853 Brother Woolley was or-
dained Bishop over the 13th Ward, which office he
held at the time of his death. Deceased leaves a
large family to mourn the loss of a kind father
and friend; he was a most excellent husband and
father, honest industrious, and upright in all


respects. Bro. Woolley has filled several impor-
tant missions in the Church at different times,
and has served several sessions as a Representa-
tive in the Legislative Assembly of Utah. He
was an intimate friend of the Prophet Joseph
Smith and his integrity to the Gospel was un-
questionable. We deeply sympathize with his
bereaved family in the loss of his society and
counsel, but he has gone to join the companion of
his youth and many dear friends on "the other
shore" where there is no more parting forever.
The faithful and honest man, the persevering en-
ergetic and prudent Bishop has gone to rest.
"Peace to his ashes;" May the remembrance
of his upright and honorable life inspire his
children and others to follow in his foot-steps.
His funeral will be held in the large Taberna-
cle, Sunday morning Oct. 16, at 10 o'clock A. M.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 77


78	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
HOME AFFAIRS.

	MRS. ZINA D. YOUNG attended the Vermont
Woman's Temperance Convention and was in-
vited to speak, but as the time was limited she
only occupied a few minutes.
	LOUIS VIALLET, the French dyer, solicits the pat-
ronage of the ladies at his store on First South
Street, No. 47, near the Theatre. Silk and
woolen dresses, gloves and other articles of
wearing apparel cleaned and dyed. Orders will
be attended to promptly. Br. Viallet is experi-
enced in this business and ladies need no longer
be under the necessity of sending dresses East to
be cleaned and colored.

	A MEETING of the Y. M. and Y. L. M. I. A.
was held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, Sat-
urday evening, Oct. 8; excellent instructions
were given by Prest. John Taylor and Prest.
Wilford Woodruff. An earnest and stirring ap-
peal was made to the young by Elder Junius F.
Wells. Mrs. E. S. Taylor, President of the
central organization of Y. L. M. I. A., ably and
eloquently represented the interests of the
young ladies.

	THE Fifty-first Semi-Annual Conference of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
was held in the large Tabernacle in the city,
commencing Thursday, Oct. 6, at 10 o'clock a.
m., and continued four days. Much good in-
struction was given by the Presidency and
Twelve Apostles on all subjects pertaining to
the work of the kingdom of God. The congre-
gations were very large, many having come
from a great distance to attend the Conference.

	THE fifth volume of the "Faith Promoting se-
ries" is now offered for sale to the public. It is
entitled, "Jacob Hamblin," and is a thrilling
narrative of the life of a man, who has had great
faith and trust in God, and whose life has been
replete with strange and miraculous interposi-
tions of Providence. Many years of his later life
has been spent in missionary work among the
Indians, and the marvelous manifesetations of
the power of God in his behalf are almost unsur-
passed in history. We recommend this book to
the youth of Zion as one of the most powerful
agents to inspire them with faith they could pos-
sibly have, and have no doubt it will do much
towards strengthening the faith of both old and
young. The book is for sale at the office
of the Juvenile Instructor and the Deseret
News establishment. It contains 140 pages of
reading matter. Price 35 cts.

	Mrs. E. R. Shipp M. D., advertises her class in
Obstetrics to open Nov. 1st. proximo. This will
afford an opportunity for those sisters who desire
to become proficient in the profession of mid
wifery, which is really a branch of science that
should receive special attention. Mrs. Shipp's

[Column 2]
terms for students are stated in the advertise-
ment and also cost of books etc. Dr. Shipp is
well known among the Latter-day Saints, she
graduated at the Woman's Medical Collage in
Philadelphia and has had considerable experience
as a physician in this city and many parts of the
Territory, and is fully capable of giving the re-
quired instruction in this important branch of
her profession.
	It would be well for those who expect to prac-
tise as midwives to be thorough in their studies,
in order to avoid any evil results from lack of
knowledge of the human body, and the various
conditions of the system as relating to mater-
nity.
	DR. Ellen B. Ferguson, of this city, was in
the city of Hartford, Conn., visiting Mrs. Isa-
bella Beecher Hooker, at the time of the Memo-
rial Services for President Garfield. Rev. Mr.
Kimball, of Unity Church in that city, invited
her to take part in the services with Mrs.
Hooker, which invitation she accepted, and oc-
cupied twenty minutes in speaking. While
visiting in Hartford she has had the opportu-
nity of meeting many noted persons, who are
much interested in her efforts to remove preju-
dice from the minds of the people concerning
the Latter-day Saints.
	Dr. Ferguson has been invited to attend the
Woman's Congress to be held at Buffalo on the
19th, 20th and 21st of this month. She will
read a paper there entitled, "Can Women Or-
ganize," in which she will incorporate the vari-
ous women's organization in this Church, in-
cluding the very successful efforts made in seri-
culture.

	"BIBLE Questions and Answers," the new
book for the Primary Associations, edited by
Eliza R. Snow Smith, is now ready and for sale
at this Office and at the Office of the Juvenile
Instructor, where it was published. This little
work will greatly facilitate the labor of the offi-
cers of these associations, and the author has
taken great pains to make the answers brief and
simple, that the children may comprehend
them and commit them to memory readily.
The most interesting and important incidents
concerning the most noted Bible characters, and
the dealings of the Lord with His people an-
ciently, may thus be engrafted upon the minds
of the little folks. Every Association should
procure two of these, that one of the officers
may ask the question and another answer it, the
children repeating the answer in concert after
her. About twenty chapters treat of Old Testa-
ment subjects, the next twenty of the New, and
the others of the Latter-day dispensation and
the prophecies of Joel, Isaiah, etc. The book
contains 44 chapters, 129 pages, and is suitable
for Sunday Schools as well as Primary Associa-
tions, or for family use. We heartily recom-
mend it to the Latter-day Saints. Price twenty-
five cents.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

BOX ELDER.

	Quarterly Conference of the Primary Asso-
ciation of Box Elder Stake opened at two p.
m. Wednesday, Sept. 14, 1881, in Brigham
City Meeting House, Pres't. Abagail S. Rosen-
baum presiding. Present on the stand were
officers of the P. A., the President and officers of
Relief Society; also Superintendent of Y. L.
A., Patriarch Box, Superintendent Kelly, Sis-
ters E. Howard, of Salt Lake City, and J. S.
Richards, from Ogden. Singing, "Come, chil-
dren, come," &c. Prayer by Coun. M. E.
Wilde.  Singing, "In the chambers of the
mountains." Minutes of the previous Confer-


ence read and approved. Condensed report of
the Stake read by the Secretary; also a report
read stating the condition of the Societies
which had been visited since last Conference;
all were reported favorably. The Treasurer's
account was then read. Sister Genie S. Pierce
was then sustained as Corresponding Secretary
of the Stake by a unanimous vote, also Miss
Amelia Graehl as Stake Organist.
	The Program consisted of songs and reci-
tations from the children. Sisters Howard
and Richards gave some excellent instructions,
which the children and all present seemed to
appreciate, followed by Supt. Kelly, Pres't.
Harriet A. Snow and Patriarch Box. Officers
of the Primary Association were then sus-﻿
tained and Conference was adjourned for three
months. Singing, "Joseph Smith's first
prayer." Benediction by Coun. Phebe W.
Snow.
	Condensed report of the Primary Associa-
tion of Box Elder Stake, viz., the First, Sec-
ond and Third Wards of Brigham City, Man-
tua, Willard, West Portage, Snowville, Three
Mile Creek, North Ward, Lake Side District,
Bear River City, Calls Fort, Malad Ward and
Samhria.
	Number of officers presiding over the above-
named associations, 76, Members enrolled,
1,093. Average attendance, 484. Number of
meetings held, 700. Amount donated since
the organization, $156.70. Amount disbursed,
$128.04. Receipts from the various associa-
tions for emigrating a poor child from Eng-
land, $50; $40.50 has been sent for the child
		A. S. ROSENBAUM, President.
		GENIE S. PEIRCE, Cor. Sec'y.
	P. S. We have had a three days' Fair of
the P. A. of this Stake; will send particulars
in a few days.


S. L. STAKE Y. L. M. I. A.

	Minutes of the Semi-Annual Conference of
the Y. L. M. I. A., held in the Assembly Hall,
S. L. City, Sept. 24, 1881, Pres't. Mary A.
Freeze presiding. Meeting opened by singing,
"Come, come; ye Saints." Prayer by Pres't.
E. S. Taylor. Singing, "Come all ye sons of
Zion." Minutes of previous Conference read
and accepted. Reports from several branch
associations were also read.
	Pres't. Freeze said: I am thankful and
pleased to hear the reports that had been sent
in; I feel encouraged. I am sorry to see so
few of the young ladies present, but am thank-
ful for the presence of the older sisters. I
wish every ward had been represented. After
this we will require only half yearly reports.
I feel that the Spirit of the Lord is here. I
have sought earnestly to the Lord for some-
thing by which we might awaken the negli-
gent. Most of the young feel that these asso-
ciations are good, but do not feel obliged to
attend. We should feel it an obligation to
go, to learn, to assist and lend an influence.
Sister Rogers told the children this morning
that we are blessed in blessing others. To
know that we are approved by our Father in
heaven is a blessing. Let us not delay because
some one else can do better; we cannot all
stand at the top, we begin at the foot. We
would feel better to have more testimony meet-
ings; testimony bearing brings a joy beyond
that afforded by writing, or other efforts. I
know these meetings are a grand school; I have
received great blessings from the experience I
have obtained in them. I often say that Moses
became great because he sought God in the
days of his youth. Seek to God, if you lack
wisdom, He will not upbraid you; you may
tell Him your weakness without shame. Sis-
ter Eliza R. Snow Smith feels very anxious to
see an interest awakened among these young
people; she suggested that the officers hold a


monthly meeting to discuss and decide what to
do. The place of meeting will be announced
through the press. Let us not turn backward.
There are many here we would like to listen
to. That we may be blessed is my desire.  
	Coun. Louie Felt. My sisters, I feel my
weakness in standing before you. I wonder
how it is we need to be urged so. I know
Pres't. Freeze does all in her power, but she
cannot do it all. It is our imperative duty to
inquire if we are doing all we can. Every
young lady has an influence, and should use it
for good. How happy we are in our meetings
together, and how soon we become careless. I
do not wish to take up your time. I wish an
interest in your faith and prayers, and that God
may help us is my prayer.
	Pres't E. S. Taylor said: It seems strange to
me that we are not more earnest in the work
in which we are engaged. Whether officer or
member, each has an immortal soul, for which
salvation is the reward, if we will strive to
gain it; we cannot depend on parents friends,
or others, we must accomplish it for ourselves.
The mother can do more than the officer can,
if she will inspire a desire in her children to
learn the ways of the Lord. If a daughter is
busy at home, the mother will, by her over-
sight and advice, see that it is properly done;
how much more important than common du-
ties is attention to spiritual matters. Each
sister should exert an influence also with her
husband. Convert him to the idea that God
has given you, too, a mission, side by side with
him. That God may give us confidence, that
we may improve the talents He has given us,
and bring also usury, is my prayer.
	Mrs. E. Howard: I see many mothers and
grand-mothers here. Cannot they use an influ-
ence with the girls? I think I see an influence
growing among us, the spirit of which is pride
and worldliness, and a little arrogance. In our
ward we had an association, but I know that
through frivolity and fear of ridicule, or bash-
fulness, the meetings have died out. We never
can accomplish anything in this way. I have
found good in all the meetings I have attended.
I am not in favor of adjourning the meetings.
The evening is a time all might spare a few
hours. Let them speak on domestic subjects,
or on any good topics. These meetings are for
everything that is good. I heard a young lady
say she had not been specially instructed in re-
gard to personal neatness. Neatness and
cleanliness are conducive to good health. Can
we not speak of the ill effects of tight lacing,
high-heeled shoes, etc.? Where is the happi-
ness of a companion who is suffering continu-
ally with wrecked health? These complaints
are good news to the evil one, who takes ad-
vantage to work upon the mind. Let us rest
when we need it. May the Lord bless you
who are here to-day, and don't adjourn your
meetings; discourage the proposition. You
can lay aside your work for beaux—and have
a care, girls, who you keep company with.
	Related an incident of rude familiarity she
witnessed and advised girls concerning the
course they should take to preserve their wo-
manly dignity. Urged the observance of the
Word of Wisdom.
	Pres't Freeze said: I see many who could
give us good advice, but our time is short.
Let me urge you to avoid extravagance and
cultivate industry.
	Conference was adjourned for three months.
Sang, "The time is far spent." Benediction by
Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith.
	AGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON,
		Stake Secretary Y. L. M. I. A.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 79


[Column 1]
LIGHT READING.

	The intention was to prove that novel-read-
ing is a study of art; in the last I mentioned

[Column 2]
that it could be proven, and now I shall en-
deavor to bring forward the necessary argu-
ments. If it can be proven that novel writing
is an art then the admission that the intel-
ligent and observant reading of a novel is a
study of art cannot be avoided. When the sculp-
tor fashions a form or a group of forms from
the amorphous marble, he does it for the pur-
pose of expressing some idea, which, whether
it is inspired or is the result of cool and
collected reflection, has incited him to his
exalted labor. His art is judged by the idea
and by the genius displayed in forcing the
stubborn marble to express that idea. The
thought is the inspiration, and if the execution
is in keeping with the idea, it becomes a work
of art. It looks simple enough. A student of
sculpture is not necessarily one who devotes his
time to sculpturing, but is one who thinks
deeply of it, and whose researches and examina-
tions give weight to his opinions on sculp-
ture. The same is true of the painter. He
gives expression to an idea and as the thought
and execution are admirable, or otherwise, he
is held to be more or less of an artist. What
is true in these respects is true in music, is true
in every branch of art; and he who seeks to
acquire information on any or all of these
branches, whether he puts that information into
practical use or not, is a student of art. Web-
ster may not give this definition, but it so near
the general acceptance of the word that it
would be useless to discuss the matter.
	The assumption is that the novel writer has
an idea; he wishes to give it expression, and
to do this he writes a book. As the idea and
its realization in the work are excellent or poor,
the writer is judged to be a praiseworthy or un-
worthy author. Is not the comparison a rea-
sonable one? If it is true that there are ten
good novel writers to one good sculptor, or ar-
tist, or musician, it does not make the work of
the novel writer less difficult, less arduous, than
that of the others mentioned; nor does it call
into play less intellect, or require less exper-
ience, or less inspiration. In many respects, if
not in a vast majority, the labor of the novelist
is incomparably more difficult than that of any
others; and for two reasons: the duty in itself
is more arduous, and his power with the people
far greater for evil, is a thousand times more
potent.
	The novelist is a creator. He makes his own
worlds, peoples them with beings of his own cre-
ation; they appear as he desires; they speak,
move, think, and act as he directs, and at his
bidding quit forever the scenes in which they
have played a part, more or less important, as
he may have designed.
	Every play written by Shakespeare consti-
tutes a world in itself; and every novel, if it is
entitled to the appellation, is a world in itself. 
An inspiration rests upon the author, in his
minds eye a world appears before him, and his
glowing imagination pictures a people inhabit-
ing it who live, who do good and bad acts, and
who are actuated by good and bad motives.
He sees what incites a man to action, how, in
the pursuits of the several ends, which are de-
sired by the several inhabitants men come in
contact, and how they harmonize; he beholds
the events that lead some men to wealth and
power, and sees how a train of circumstances
will change a man of originally good motives
to a being desirious of securing certain results
even if they must be proven by unjust means.
The heart is open to his gaze, its desires and as-
pirations are exposed, and when the thoughts of
the active mind reveal themselves the source of
the tears and joys of his world cease to be mys-
teries and its book of life is opened to his vision.
In writing the novel he strives to express these
ideas that others may see them as he does. If
his thoughts are consistent and based on rea-
son, and if the execution be good he is a good
novelist. Every being in the world of the

[Column 3]
author is one of a class of people which forms
the whole. Is it not a sublime art to create
such a work? And is it not a study of art to
read the products of such a mind. By means
of novels many wide-spread abuses have been
corrected in nations. The abolition of the
debtors prison in England is alleged to be due
more to the writings of Dickens in "Little Dor-
ritt," and other of his works than to any other,
for the reason that he brought the evil so
vividly and so forcibly before all that it had to
be corrected. Charles Read has performed like
services by means of the oft despised novel; and
a host of other instances might be cited.
	The gift of the novelist—in the exalted sense
of the word—is the gift of true insperation, and
in the hands of a sound man, it is a form for
good which should not be ignored. There is
enlightenment in the good novel; pleasure and
profit and food for thought for the laborer and
pleasure and profit and food for reflection for
the philosopher and the scientist. It teaches
the desires that move us in life, portrays more
clearly the advantage and the blessing of noble
aspirations and thoughts; and paints the evils
that follow a yielding to vicious and unholy
acts; leads to better walks in life, makes the
world more sympathetic, inculcates benevol-
ence; it is a work of grand art. Its persuit is a
study of art. There are more virtues in a novel-
reading than are dreamt of by the average
philosopher.
						SIMPLE SIMON.


GARFIELD'S FATALISM.

	Those who are most familiar with General
Garfield say that for many years he cherished
the belief that he would not live to be older
than his father was and that he would die in
some sudden and violent manner. His friends,
with all their persuasions, were not able to
make him dismiss this thought. He would
say in answer to their claims that such a belief
was foolish: It seems to me as foolish as it
does to you. I do not know why it haunts me.
Indeed, it is a thing that is wholly involuntary
on my part, and when I try the hardest not to
think of it it haunts me most. It comes to
me sometimes in the night, when all is quiet.
I think of my father, and how he died in the
strength of his manhood, and left my mother
to care for a large family of children, and how
I have always been without his assistance and
advice, and then I feel it so strong upon me,
that the vision is in the form of a warning that
I cannot treat lightly.
	For many years he believed that he should
some time fall between cars or be killed in
some way while traveling. When he reached
the age of his father at death and passed that
point safely he seemed to forget the idea that
had given him so much trouble. He is now
forty-nine, nearly five years older than his fa-
ther when he died. It is said by those who
know the general best that he was ever to a
greater or less degree a believer in fatalism.
He was a man who invariably had the strong-
est impressions, and it is believed that it was
an impression that prevailed with him for
many years that he would be President some
time. He never sought the office, and never
intended to do so.—Ex.


NRS. GARFIELD AND OTHER WOMAN.

	The very cordial and general recognition of
the brave, quiet way in which Mrs. Garfield
has sustained her trying position, has called
out this sensible and just comment from the
Boston Post.
	But we hope the mistake will not be made
of placing Mrs. Garfield in an isolated niche
among American women and American wives.
She is no distinguished exception endowed with


the stern courage of Roman matrons beyond
other women, but a fine representative of her
sex and class. In the sympathy that is felt for
her and the admiration of her domestic virtues
and wifely devotion, let us learn to appreciate
more truly the women that are nearer to us
than the President's wife."
	The Post is right. In a majority of homes
in the United States are wives discharging
their daily duty as faithfully as Mrs. Garfield
does hers. They do this, too, without the sym-
pathy or praise of the people. Patiently they
toil on, often in poverty, and under difficulties
which they would never surmount but for the
affection they feel for those for whose sake they
stand so bravely in their lot.
	The advice of the Post is good also, viz.: 
"Learn to appreciate more truly the women
who are nearer to us than the President's wife."
Now will not the Post aid the application of its
good counsel by supporting for women their
claim to the full and equal rights which are
guaranteed to all decent men, viz., the right to
the ballot? No appreciation can be so valua-
ble as this, and no other is so much needed.
	Woman's Journal.	L. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

UTAH TERRITORIAL FAIR;

	On Monday October 3d, at 10 o'clock the
Fair formally opened and Hon. George Q.
Cannon delivered an appropriate address. He
spoke upon the importance of proper represen-
tation such as was there represented to encour-
age the growth of home ability and manufac-
ture, and promote industry which lay at the
foundation of success in life. The people had
been urged from the beginning to exert them-
selves to make within the Territory all those
things which their necessities required for
home consumption, as well as articles for ex-
portation. The speaker felt pleased at the in-
terest now manifest upon various matters per-
taining to the development of the resources of
the country and thought all who sought to
create labor for the people should be stimulated
by the result which had already been reached
to make still greater efforts in the future.
Pres. John Taylor made a few brief remorks
referred to the benefits of united or cooperative
effort in all the branches of manufacture.
	The Fair contained articles of almost all
kinds that can be made or produced within
<yithb1teriitoxyj vegetables="" and.fruits="" ofan="" ex-'="" vcellehtquality;="" good="" butter="" and="" cheete.j.idthe="" kjdisplay,="" of="" furniture="" svai?quite="" elaborate="" dndj="" -="" 4="" showed'="" well="" fbrthis="" branch="" ofindustry.="" soap,="" fattier,bniahes="" 'and="" -mirble="" i="" work,="" were="" very="" f%itdb’loy="" 'represented.="" woolen="" dressjgoods,="" 3'and="" heavy="" ‘cloth="" all="" kinds,="" blankets="" danbels'="" i'yafirdf="" oil="" colors'="" arid="" varieties="" making="" this="" dis-="" '"may="" fink="" s="" m'="" iru="" -ril="" ladies'department="" was="" greatly="" admired'="" v="" °4by-alli-quilts,-and="" rugs="" in.="" the:="" varieties,="" a="" patterns,-="" embroidered="" cushions;="" in="" fact="" fancy1="" wool;="" work-="" andimany.="" sorts;="" &']’="" s'-bfneedle'vorki'knitting,'crochet,<etm-v.="" ;il="" fnw="" “the;="" homemade="" bilk="" .perhaps="" more="" mt-="" 0ri.c'ttye'i'="" than="" anything="" '="" else-1="" tostrangers="" '"espebiairyladies="" vyho="" profus&.in="" their="" .ex-:="" 1="passions of" admiration="" at="" the.="" energy="" and;="" .in-;="" '!="" dustry="" those="" ladies="" who-had="" been="" persevering="" enough="" to="" abcomplwh--so-much="" by="" own="" vi="" daborfrofiitbeixery="" &anisa-hifeorm'="" egg3-="" one="" show="" case="" contained="" reeled="" silk="" lo="" manu&cturdd'="" by,="" hapdonepound="" pfnwhich="" bhwaarinade'by-imiss="" nellie="" type.pffhis="" ity="" ;="" hdiagedas,="" ,thejreel="" uscd.by="" her="" waftplso="" on="" ,ex-="" odjhibitibri="" land..="" was.ihagtily,="" (wnstrucfed="" ..from="" pieces="" broken="" chair="" thqspokpf="" '"="" :'&r--wheel.,="" miss.nerie’sjgilk="" took="" the="" pmgand="" sd="" oifcdid="" reel-="" appng="" somq="" thrimtbptable="" 5="" uuifrl-qt="" dtrwa3,a.handsomp.nettd,jshawl="" made="" by.="" mrs.="" b1="" ..="" bergman="" from="" sillc="" raised="" reeled’by'thblate="" 'j="" irs.="" ann="" b.="" dunyon.="" it="" elegant="" r"rijjiii.'ii;="" 'jti="" ;11.="" vjinn="" for="" shoulders-="" oflanydadyidn)="" <laadj="" 'thererwasva="" child’s="" hood="" fall‘of="" 'silk,'ia="" verysexr="" quisite="" affair,-="" c;="" ievari's="" nephii="" haridsomd;="" rietted="" ,="" fscii‘f'made="" it.="" warehairi'="" manti-j;="" 'uthfere1="" worerspecimeris-bf="" 'silk:="" lace="" mahufubtrircd="" a;="" ‘variety="" .patterns="" by1="" .the="" famous="" lacd="" maker="" lizzje-="" urseri-="bacb" oomptori="" of;-morgan.'="" there="" many="" '‘other="" specifneris(arid="" articles="" ofhome-ipade="" silk,="" collars,="" ri6cktiesjrprirses,-etoi="" alsd="" reihibitl6rifiwakiridstifdressoods,="" 70="" 'yards,of-="" home'sptiri.="" which="" was;="" date="" mts.="" josepbifid="" schottler,="" brie'="" plain="" 'bther="" brocade.="" first?silk-="" dross="" goods="" ever="" manii-="" factured="" iri="" utah="" -was-="" bymrs.-="" eanririda="" rcbirisori="" fatmingtoriy="" who:raised="" the’="" co-="" coons="" from1="" worm!'oggs,="" reeledi="" thp.'silk="" afld="" did="" workherselfl'i-!mil="" “'="" article-ftfr="" sale-manufactured'efroimthe="" home-spun="" cari="" be="" -'obtairied'at'="" mrs="" betsy="" long’s="" faricy:storc="" cri'first="" south="" street="" near="" theatre.-="" manyhf="" :exhibi-="" 'tion="" manufactured="" cocoons="" raisedtby="" mesdames="" dunyon-,’'susan'="" string-="" ain="" mary="" ann'="" rockwpod,-'--at;="" :="" forest="" farm'cocoonery.="" ''="">the Territory, vegetables and fruits of an ex-
cellent quality, good butter and cheese. The
display of furniture was quite elaborate and
showed well for this branch of industry. Soap,
leather, brushes and marble work were very
creditabley represented. Woolen dress goods,
and heavy cloth of all kinds, blankets flannels
yarn of all colors and varieties making this dis-
play very fine.
	The ladies department was greatly admired
by all, quilts, and rugs in all the varieties of
patterns, embroidered cushions and in fact
fancy wool work of all kinds, and many sorts
of needle work, knitting, crochet, etc.
	The homemade silk was perhaps more at-
tractive than anything else to strangers
especially ladies who were profuse in their ex-
pressions of admiration at the energy and in-
dustry of those ladies who had been persevering
enough to accomplish so much by their own
labor from the very foundation—the silk worm
eggs. One show case contained reeled silk
manufactured by hand, one pound of which
was made by Miss Nellie Pyper of this city
aged 13, the reel used by her was also on ex-
hibition and was hastily constructed from
pieces of a broken chair and the spoke of a
wheel. Miss Nellie's silk took the prize and so
did the reel. Among some of the most notable
articles manufactured from the home spun silk
was a handsome netted shawl made by Mrs. S.
Bergman from silk raised and reeled by the late
Mrs. Ann B. Dunyon. It was elegant enough

[Column 2]

for the shoulders of any lady in the land.
There was a child's hood all of silk, a very ex-
quisite affair, made by Mrs. O. Evans of Nephi.
A handsome netted scarf made by Mrs. R.
Wareham of Manti. There were specimens of
silk lace manufactured in a variety of patterns
by the famous lace maker Mrs. Lizzie Ursen-
bach Compton of Morgan. There were many
other specimens and articles of home-made silk,
collars, neckties, purses, etc. There were also on
exhibition two kinds of dress goods, 70 yards, of
home spun silk which was reeled by the late
Mrs. Josephine Schettler, one plain the other
brocade. The first silk dress goods ever manu-
factured in Utah was made by Mrs. Laurinda
Robinson of Farmington, who raised the co-
coons from silk worm eggs, and reeled the silk
and did all the work herself.
	The articles for sale manufactured from the
home-spun silk can be obtained at Mrs Betsy
Long's Fancy Store on First South Street near
the Theatre. Many of the articles on exhibi-
tion were manufactured from cocoons raised by
Mesdames Ann B. Dunyon, Susan A. String-
am and Mary Ann Rockwood, at the Forest
Farm Cocoonery.
	The Primary Department in the Fair at-
tracted considerable attention because all the
articles were the work of the "little people."
Perhaps the most wonderful was the picture of
a child by a girl Clara Bradford 9 years old.
A copy of a photograph made by the child her-
self and painted very artistically. That child
is certainly a genius and ought to have an op-
portunity for art cultivation. A handsome
breakfast shawl knitted by Georgina Toone, 12
years old, took the prize, and there were several
other articles very ingeniously made; the indus-
try of the little folks is very commendable.
Handsome wax flowers made by Louie Sloan,
and many other fancy articles by little girls.
Some excellent cocoons were on exhibition
raised by a small boy, which were of superior
quality, and another lot raised by a girl 13
years old which took the prize.
	The picture gallery or art department re-
cieved a good share of attention and elicited
considerable admiration. Many of the paint-
ings by home artists were very fine, especially
scenes from nature. The Mormon Battalion
was seemingly true to life, and quite touching
to those who knew its history. The painting
of the Savior and the woman in sorrow was a
beautiful illustration of the tenderness of the
divine Master and the depths of love for hu-
manity which abounded in his nature. It was a
grand picture and a glorious subject. "He
wipeth the tear from every eye." None but a
true artist could design it.
	Master Samuel Barratt's pictures show tal-
ent of no ordinary character in one so young
and he may justly be proud of them.
	Miss Jennings' paintings were very fine, one
or two real gems.
	Some specimens of crayon drawings were ex-
cellent and displayed real talent. There were
many other choice specimens of work in this
department which were really meritorious.
	There are many very beautiful and roman-
tic places in Utah that form excellent material
for subjects for the artist to delineate upon canvas.


[Column 1]
H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES, FEATHERS WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

[Column 2]
NOTICE.
HAVING PROCURED A MANNIKIN CHART SPE-
cimens, etc., I am now prepared to give instructions
in thr art of Obstetrics and other branches connected there-
with. My class will open Nov. 1st, 1881. Those wishing to
join this class will please communicate with me at once, it
being necessary to send east for books. Terms: Tuition, 60
Lessons, $30; books, three in number, $12. Address,
					E. R. SHIPP, M. D., Salt Lake City,
	OFFICE and RESIDENCE in Contributor building first door
north of Z. C. M. I.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS.
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obe found in the West. ☞ Your orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

FOR SALE.
Home-Made SILK,
AT
CUTLER'S COMMISSION STORE.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
[image of dentures]
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:—MAIN ST OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P. O. BOX, 541.

A LARGE STOCK.
	Of Home Made trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

PALACE OF FASHION No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Spring and Summer Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSRY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly reponded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies and Children's Shoes. Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED
S. P. TEASDEL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.﻿

VOL. 10.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1, 1881.	NO. 11.


SUNSET PICTURES.

What a wondrous painter is the King of Day!
The Master Artist, we all must say;
Such skillful blending of light and shade,
Such rich, rare tints hath his pencil made,
That he who would copy despairs at last,
And aside the brush and colors cast;
Yet man, too, wonderful works hath wrought,
But to rival the sun in vain hath sought.

Shall I try to tell what I saw afar
In the sky one night, ere the twinkling star
P[--]ped forth to tell that the setting sun
The course of another day had run?
My eye first saw, as I looked above,
On a deep, dark cloud, God's sign of love—
His seal of covenant—rainbow bright,
Like a coronet fair on the brow of night.

But the scene soon changed, 'till glowing red,
Like a prairie fire, the flames on sped;
The smoke rolled high—then a change again—
Behold, an ocean with stormy main;
A rock bound coast, with a vessel tossed
By the [-]itiless wave, while the cry "We are lost!"
In fancy I hear, then, "Peace, be still,
'Tis the wind and the water obey my will."

You may call it fancy, yet I can find
Much to please and instruct the mind
In those sun-wrought pictures on cloudy sky—
His parting gift—his last good-bye;
Given to cheer through the night's dark hour,
'Til he comes again in his mighty power,
Cheering the earth and the weary heart;
Bidding the shadows and mists depart.
		HOPE.


[Column 1]

CONVERSATION.

	Conversation is a great art, and one in which
few excel. It is an accomplishment which
every one should try to acquire. Few people
study this art, and many think it is not neces-
sary, simply because they are great talkers—
great talkers in one sense of the phrase, but
small talkers in another. Good conversation
does not depend on the number of words, but
on the choice thereof. How often have I spent
an evening among my friends, pretty, bright,
intelligent young ladies and promising young
men, and never heard one single sentence ut-
tered that manifested thought, or edified one
in the least, and from these same little socia-
bles have returned home thinking what a 
worthless evening I had spent, listening to and
talking a host of nothings.
	I think it is a duly every one owes to him-
self and to society to make a study of conver-
sation. It is as true an art as painting, or
music, and it includes all the arts, for one who
is a perfect conversationalist has to understand
them all, so as to speak intelligently about
them.
	During Napoleon's life, the ladies of his
court were especially noted for their brilliant
conversational powers, and none more so than
the fair Empress herself; even when the wife
of Beauharnais, her home was the rendezvous
of politicians and men of letters, and never
was court society more brilliant than under her
sway. She encouraged all the arts and sciences
to a great extent, and excelled in them herself,
but in none did she display so much excellence
as in conversation.
	Among the most noted of her sex for this
power, perhaps the greatest, is Madam De
Stael, even as a child she displayed wonderful
talent in that direction. Her father's home

[Column 2]

was a place where assembled the greatest and
most learned of men, and all, even old, gray-
headed men, used to hover round this little
prodigy, and listen to her arguments and wit
with the deepest interest; she was but eleven
when she entertained her father's guests in this
manner. At the age of twenty she had gained
a great reputation as a wit, and she always
during her life, not only in Paris, but also in
foreign countries, was surrounded by an admir-
ing throng of the literati; she was singularly
eloquent, and her conversation was brilliant in
the extreme. This woman brought into society
in a most philosophical manner the history of
art, literature, manners, genius and national
taste. The French, as a people, have always
excelled in conversation, and their women es-
pecially have been noted for their brilliant ac-
quirements. Yet the Americans are not far in
the lurch, and noteworthy among them may
be mentioned Margaret Fuller. In her girl-
hood her zeal for good literature was most re-
markable. Her facilities for reading were
good, and she was surrounded by a circle of
highly cultivated young people, therefore, as
might be expected, she became a highly cul-
tured conversationalist. Though she did not,
perhaps, possess the natural abilities for con-
versation to so great an extent as Madam De
Stael, yet she cultivated that art to its highest
attainment. She gained high intellectual
reputation, for she was a great student. She
not only loved the art of conversation for her-
self, but also wished to instruct others in that
direction, and for this purpose she instituted a
remarkable conversational class, which stimu-
lated the minds of the more cultivated women
of Boston, her native city, and even now some
leaders of thought date back their first enlight-
enment to her, and wish their daughters might
have such guidance.
	Utah may still produce a Margaret Fuller,
perhaps it has; but few, comparatively, are the
young people here who interest themselves suf-
ficiently in the art of conversation to entertain
and edify those with whom they converse, even
upon interesting topics. I am sorry to have
to acknowledge that there is too much gossip
existing in society here, and would advise that
this be discountenanced, and the study of the
true conversational powers be instituted in its
stead. I am sure there is plenty of natural
ability, all that is lacking is the adaptability.
Our Young Ladies' Associations might be a
place where true conversation could be in-
dulged in to a great advantage. The President
could perform the part of a Margaret Fuller,
by choosing the subject and conducting the
conversation. All things that tend to elevate
the mind are in themselves religious, and the
principles of the Gospel certainly include all
high and worthy subjects; through proper con-
versation judiciously managed we might make
ourselves familiar with all the principles of our
religion, and combine with them the highest
thoughts of the most eminent men and women
of all ages.	ANNIE.


[Column 1]

CORRESPONDENCE.

	ST. JOHN, APACHE, ARIZONA CO.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	This far-away place is the home of some of
our sisters, (and some very good ones too)
therefore it should be represented in your col-
umns. There are very good people here, good

[Column 2]

neighbors and kind friends, and I am pleased﻿
to say many are moving out on their city lots,
a little apart from the "outside element" by
which they were before surrounded.
	The inhabitants of St. John (the old town)
consist mostly of Mexicans, consequently their
houses are not calculated to please the eye of a
person used to the neat and tasteful homes in
Utah; and as our people have as yet had only
time enough to build rude shelters from the
elements, we have the better opportunity of
admiring the natural beauties of the country,
which is indeed lovely at this season of the
year. The grass completely covers the hills,
and also the city plot, making good pastures
for the calves close to the houses. Many kinds
of beautiful wild flowers are in bloom—they
seem to be doing their best, making good use
of the time by springing up in every available
place, as if aware that the time will be short
until they will be replaced by our cultivated
garden flowers. A few miles from here, on
the mountain road, the whole country is in
bloom with "morning glories"and"four o' clocks,"
together with many other kinds of flowers,
until it seems a perfect paradise.
	We have a beautiful site for a city, and with
the superior natural advantages and resources
of the country to those we have had in some
parts of Utah, causes me to feel that in a few
years, by the blessing of God, we shall have a
lovely city and prosperous homes.
	The Little Colorado, which a few months
ago was little indeed (as a person could step
across it), and it seemed to those who had
newly arrived a burlesque to call it a river,
has since the rainy season begun, become a
raging, foaming torrent, whose roaring could
be heard at quite a distance. It presented a
grand appearance as it dashed madly over the
rocks, showing how uncontrollable this little
stream could become, not a bad similitude, I
think, to the Kingdom of God, which, though
small at first, shall finally become irresistible
in its onward progress.
	The sisters here seem to be doing the best
they can under the circumstances, and a good
spirit prevails in our meetings. Our President
is Sister Richie, who seems to take a lively in-
terest and to faithfully discharge her duties in
that capacity, aided by her Counselors, Sisters
Ramsey and Tenney—the former well known
to many of the sisters in Utah, for her ability
and skill as a doctress, and the latter a woman
who is loved and respected by all who know
her. All the members seem desirous of per-
forming every duty and requirement, and to
labor unitedly with our Bishop and all the
brethren.
	We were favored last week with a visit from
our Stake President, Sister East, and some
others of the sisters from Snowflake and Tay-
lor. Sister East is well known in your city as
a woman of superior ability and great integ-
rity. She seems highly qualified for her posi-
tion, and gave us some excellent instructions,
as also did the sisters associated with her. Our
Bishop, who was present at our meeting, also
made some very excellent remarks for our in-
struction and encouragement, showing that he
appreciated the labors of the Relief Society,
and the sisters, as well as the brethren, cer-
tainly respect and appreciate the labors of
Bishop D. K. Udell; all seem to feel that he
is the right man in the right place, and his
equal could scarcely be found for the position
which he occupies.		ETKA.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]	
	PEN SKETCH OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS
	WOMAN.

ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.

		CONCLUDED.
	Early the same spring, 1880, Sister Eliza
attended the Sisters' Stake Conference in
Tooele City, and immediately after the Stake
Conference of R. S., Y. L. M. I. A and P. A.
in this city. She also attended meetings here
and there in the interest of the various or-
ganizations, and in several of the towns adja-
cent to the city branch organizations were ef-
fected, auxiliary to the parent Silk Associa-
tion, which had been completely reorganized
the same spring. One would think these meet-
ings and regular duties of her position as
Priestess in the House of the Lord were suffi-
cient tax upon the energies of a woman at her
time of life, but during this busy time she pre-
pared the copy for the Children’s Primary
Hymn Book for the press, and in the month
of June the manuscript was all in the hands
of the printers.
	At the time of the Ladies’ Quarterly Con-
ference held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall,
Saturday morning, June 19, Sister Eliza, the
subject of this sketch, was formally elected to
preside over all the organizations of Relief 
Societies in the Church, whether here or
abroad in the world. Prest. John Taylor made
the nomination himself, which was sustained
by a unanimous vote of the Conference. Presi-
dent Taylor then asked her whom she would
choose for her Counselors; she replied, Sisters
Zina D. Young and Elizabeth Ann Whitney,
who were then also nominated by Prest. Tay-
lor, and sustained by the vote of the Confer-
ence. Sister Sarah M. Kimball was also
chosen by Sister Eliza to fill the position of
Secretary, and Sister M. Isabella Horne as
Treasurer; these sisters were also nominated
and sustained in the same manner. Sister
Eliza made choice of these sisters to form a
central organization, to work with her in the
interest of Relief Societies. In the afternoon
of the same day Sister Eliza effected a central
organization of the Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary
Associations, and gave much special instruc-
tion to the officers upon the duties of the cen-
tral board of the each of these organizations.
	About the last of June Sister Eliza attended
the Children’s Fair in Farmington, which was
very satisfactory in all respects, and specially
gratifying to one who had organized and
worked so continuously and arduously in the
interest of the little people. Shortly after, in
the month of July, the Children’s Primary
Hymn Book was issued. These books have
been household treasures, causing Sister Eliza’s
memory to live in the hearts of the children,
and her songs will be sung to the latest gener-
ation by the children of Zion.
	On Saturday, July 17, at a meeting in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, President
Taylor ordained Sister E. R. S. Smith to the
office to which she had been elected, saying:
	“Eliza Roxie Snow Smith, I lay my hands
upon thy head in the name of Jesus, and by
authority of the Holy Priesthood I set thee
apart to preside over the Relief Societies of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
and I confer upon thee this power and author-
ity and ordain thee to this office, that thou
mayst have power to expound the Scriptures,
and to bless, elevate and strengthen thy
sisters. The Lord is well pleased with
thee, with thy diligence, fidelity,
and zeal in the interest of thy sisters.
He has blessed thee exceedingly, and will con-
tinue to bless thee forever and ever; and I
bless thee with all thine heart can desire in
righteousness, and seal upon thee all former
blessings conferred upon thee by the Holy
Priesthood, in the name of Jesus. Amen.

[Column 2]
	President Taylor also ordained and set apart
her counselors and secretary.
	In August Sister Eliza made a tour through
the whole of Sanpete County, holding about
thirty meetings. She visited Thistle Valley
and assisted the Bishop in organizing a Relief
Society there, with one of the Indian sisters
as Counselor. She was blessed and set apart,
the first Indian woman ordained and set apart
to an office in this dispensation. Sister Eliza
addressed the Indians who were assembled for
some time, and when they were informed she
was the wife of the Prophet Joseph they were
greatly delighted, and all anxious to shake
hands with her and express their joy at seeing
one of the wives of the great Prophet.
	Returning from Sanpete by way of Levan,
Sister Eliza drove a horse and buggy the whole
distance from Fayette to Levan, twenty-six
miles, over the most fearful roads. In Septem-
ber following she attended the Sisters’ Confer-
ence of Sevier Stake at Richfield, and traveled
through that county, holding meetings in each
settlement, often three in one day. In October
she visited several towns in Utah County,
meeting with different organizations of Relief
Society, Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary Associa-
tions.
	On the 8th of November, Sister Eliza left
Salt Lake City, accompanied by Sister Zina D.
Young, her Counselor, enroute for St. George,
visiting settlements and holding meetings by
the way, organizing and re-organizing the As-
sociations wherever circumstances required.
The people everywhere received them with the
warmest welcome. Arriving at St. George,
they took their abode for the winter at the
residence of Mrs. Minerva W. Snow, who after-
wards accompanied them much in their travels
among the people. Sister Eliza had some con-
siderable work to do for her ancestry and
friends in the Temple, but although she con-
sidered that an important matter, it was not
the only work she felt devolving upon her.
Her desire to aid the living, to counsel and in-
struct the young more especially, and to im-
press upon parents the necessity of stronger
safeguards for the protection of the children
in Zion, prompted her to greater exertions than
any one could have looked for from one of her
years in such unpropitious weather. It seemes
almost incredible, but it is nevertheless true,
that this veteran sister traveled over a thousand
miles, in carriages and wagons, after she ar-
rived at St. George, doing women’s missionary
work among the Saints. Her unwearied exer-
tions to reach the most remote hamlets and
villages, and her endeavors to benefit the sisters
in their respective districts, to strengthen the
hands of the weak and inspire all with a desire
to be useful and improve the talents given
them, were the true interpretation of her high
and holy mission.
	While in St. George, the anniversary of her
birthday was publicly celebrated, and the hon-
ors heaped upon her on that occasion were in
keeping with the beautiful life and magnificent
works of this distinguished Mother in Israel.
Speeches were made, toasts given, songs sung,
music rendered, praises chanted, and addresses
written in poetry and p[-]ose were read, and the
bounties of earth were gratefully partaken of.
All that could be done and said to express es-
teem and love for Sister Eliza seemed to have
been brought about on that occasion.
	On the same day the people of Weber Stake
paid a very delicate tribute to the honored lady
by a similar celebration in Ogden City. There
was nothing wanting to make the party com-
plete but the presence of the lady herself.
But in consideration of the people’s knowledge
of her being three hundred miles away, it
seems to me the highest compliment which
could have been paid her, and the most em-
phatic expression of the niche she filled in the
hearts of the people.

[Column 3]
	Sisters Eliza and Zina returned from St.
George March 31, and were met at the depot
by a party of thirty ladies, who escorted them
to the Lion House. Poems and addressed had
been written for the occasion by some of the
ladies, which were read during the evening.
Sister Eliza, though tired in body, was fresh in
spirit, and responded in a happy manner.
	Reinstated again in her home in the Lion
House, Sister Eliza commenced laboring as
usual in her several callings among the sisters
at home in Zion, and also to prepare another
book for the use of the Primary Associations.
	At the General Conference of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, held in the
large Tabernacle in this city, April, 1881, Sis-
ter E. R. Snow Smith was sustained by unani-
mous vote of the Conference as President over
all the Relief Societies in the Church. Sisters
Zina D. Young and Elizabeth Ann Whitney
were also sustained as her Counselors.
	Sister Eliza has spent the past spring and
summer in visiting the Sisters’ Stake. Confer-
ence, attending annual or special meetings of
Relief Societies, Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary
Associations in various places. Meantime,
when not engaged in public duties, she was
prepareing the manuscript of her new book,
“Bible Questions and Answers.” In Septem-
ber she visited Sanpete County, and among
other places Indianola, or Thistle Valley.
While therə she organized a Primary Associa-
tion, in which ten little Lamanite children were
enrolled as members, the beginning of a new
work.
	Since returning from Sanpete the book,
“Bible Questions and Answers,” has been is-
sued from the Juvenile Instructor Office, and
is now for sale. It is well calculated to give
the children of the Saints a knowledge of the
Scriptures, and little boys who commit those
answers to memory will be better prepared
with Scriptural arguments when they go out
into the world to preach the Gospel. Although
Sister Eliza has written and published many
books, all in the interest of the Kingdom of
God and for the encouragement and elevation
of the Saints, yet she does not feel she has
done enough, and is now setting about prepar-
ing books for the young which will contain
poems suitable for recitations, dialogues, etc.
	Sister Eliza is never idle; she is always em-
ployed in some labor for the benefit of Zion.
Her voice has been heard bearing testimony to
the truth and instructing the people in almost
every ward and settlement in Israel, and in
many places in foreign lands; her books are in
nearly every home of the Saints, and her songs
are sung in every land where the Gospel has
found its way. Thousands have been blessed
under her hands in the House of the Lord,
and in holy temples. She still lives and con-
tinues her noble work. She is brave, strong
and unflinching in her spirit, and God grant
she may live yet many years to preside as the
Elect Lady in the office to which she has been
appointed and set apart by the servants of
God.
	It would be difficult to find a woman who
has done so much public duty in the interest,
welfare and development of her sex as has the
subject of this sketch. That she has passed
through fiery ordeals none can doubt, but in
the strength of Israel’s God has been able to
say, “Not my will, O Father, but thine be
done.” Such a life needs no comment, but her
works should be recorded for the benefit of the
Saints, and that the daughters of Zion may,
knowing her good works and reading of her
noble life, emulate her wise example and be
stimulated to follow in her footsteps. And
while time shall last Sister Eliza’s songs will
be sung in Zion, and her memory live in the
hearts of the people, and her name be immor-
talized as Zion’s Poetess.
		E. B. W.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


"ONLY A GIRL.”

BY MRS. A. E. N. R.

Close the door carefully, muffle the tread,
Drop the white curtains 'round the white bed;
A pale mother's sleeping, aye give her rest,
See the fresh rosebud upon her white breast.
She has struggled with pain, she has wrestled with death;
Her’s is the victory! let not a breath
Awaken her slumber; hark! there’s a tread,
Nearer and nearer approaching the bed;
Manly his bearing—yea, noble his mien;
Lowly he bends the fair sleepers between;
Lifts the frail floweret with womanly care,
Breathlessly gazing, his lips part in prayer!
No! there’s a chill in the ambient air.
Each word falls distinctly and painfully slow,
Curdling and freezing the blood in its flow;
"It's only a girl!—a hush as of death
For the moment suspended each listener’s breath;
In the pause—the pale sleeper uplifted her eyes—
"I must have been dreaming," she said with surprise.
"I thought that a cold hand of iron touched my heart,
While hard, cruel words, like a poisonous dart,
Pierced my soul to the core; I sprang for my babe!
'It's only a girl!' were the words I heard said,
And Elmer! Oh, Elmer! that voice, was like thine;
That hand—angels spare me!—once warmly clasped
	mine,
As you called me more precious than ruby or pearl,
And yet, it was when I was was only a girl!
If a girl is thus dear, then the mother and wife
To every true man is as dear as his life!"
She clasped her cold hands o'er her hot, throbbing brow—
The blood had all rushed to that citadel now;
Then her words, quick and scathing, burned into the
	soul!
Emotion swayed reason beyond her control—
'It's only a girl!"—O man in thy strength,
Know that God measures souls by their depth, not their
	length;
The streamlet may wind over miles of fair earth,
Yet bear on its bosom no proud ship of worth;
A man may hold kingdoms, and nations control:
What is that to the birth of one beautiful soul ?
The germ in your strong arms, unfolded with care,
May, like Harriet Hosmer or Rosa Bonheur,
Move the world by their art, or lull it to rest
With poesy's magic, the balm of the blest.
The mission of motherhood! Man, do you dare
With sneers stain this sanctum sanctorum of prayer?
This Holy of Holies—this mightiest dower?
Dare to scoff at the sex in which lies this power?
Ah, where were the Mouarch, the Duke, and the Earl,
Had not each a mother—once "only a girl!"
And whence came thy being, and all the proud van
You marshalled in battle—yes, every man?
The magnet that led them through storm and through
	strife.
Was a mother, a sister, a sweatheart, or wife,
Each closely enshrined in his heart like a pearl;
And yet each fair image was "only a girl!"
It was only a girl that Deity chose
To incarnate the Christ; the story in prose
Sweeps down through the ages like stars through the
	night,
To illumine the world with its God-given light.
'Twas only frail woman that wept at the tomb,
And talked with the angels when Jesus had gone;
And woman that bore the glad tidings to man
That Christ, the Beloved, had risen again.
Go to the recking battle-fields of yore
And read the records, writ in human gore,
Of woman’s valor, mercy, courage, love,
And point me to one name that's carved above
The name of woman in such deeds as these,
And I will pray to Heaven, on bended knees,
That every child henceforth may be a boy;
That every father’s heart may leap with joy.
But ere in scorn you breathe "only a girl!"
Look; lest you cast aside the greater pearl.
	—SELECTED.


[Column 1]

SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	These who have grown up in these valleys,
and have here pratised the principle of celes-

[Column 2]

tial marriage, have become accustomed to it,
and having but little opposition to contend
with, can have very little idea of the trial it
was to those who first entered the school. They
had to lean upon the arm of the Almighty,
and in the face of persecution, sorrow and
death, took up the cross and bore it heroically
for the sake of future generations, looking be-
yond this life for their reward. They under-
stood it to be a principle instituted solely for
the purpose of saving and exalting the human
family, not only the living, but those who had
died without a knowledge of the true plan of
salvation. It was considered a sacred and
holy duty, and the honest in heart who entered
into it did it in the fear of God.
	What other motive than real faith and a
firm conviction of the truth of this principle
could have induced them to accept and prac-
tice a doctrine so opposite to their traditions
and the rigid training received from their sec-
tarian parents and ancestors? Who would
wish to become objects of derision, to have
their friends and associates turn the cold shoul-
der, and be subjected to the sneers and scoffs of
persons prejudiced by the extravagant tales
spread by certain ones who, while professing
friendship and faith in the principle, were two-
faced and treacherous to their brethren and
sisters; the latter, though virtuous and modest
in their demeanor, and their motives as noble
and pure as were those of Ruth and Naomi,
had to silently bear the title of lewd women.
	We may read the history of martys and
mighty conquerors, and of many great and
good men and women, but that of the noble
women and fair daughters of Zion, whose faith
in the promises of Israel's God enabled them
to triumph over self and obey His higher law,
and assist His servants to establish it upon the
earth, though buried in the past, I feel sure
there was kept by the angels an account of
their works which will yet be found in the
records of Eternity, written in letters of Gold.
	The Prophet said that the practice of this
principle would be the hardest trial the Saints
would ever have to test their faith. It was
not his work, but that of the Almighty, and he
said it would cause the damnation of all who en-
tered into it with impure motives, and none
who acted unrighteously could stand, the trial
would be so great; and there would be but
few men who would be capable of being saviors
upon Mount Zion.
	He taught the principle to his wife, Emma,
who humbly received it and gave to him three
young women to wife, who had been living
with her in her family, and had been like
adopted daughters. Until she lost the spirit
and her heart became hardened, they lived
happily together. They respected and loved
her as though she had been their mother, and
might have remained with her afterwards had
they been willing to have severed the ties be-
tween themselves and the Prophet; but choos-
ing to remain true their covenants, which they
considered binding here and hereafter, they
preferred to leave the Mansion.
	Emma deceived her children and denied to
every one that the Prophet had ever received
a revelation on Celestial marriage, or had ever
practised it, although she had heard the reve-
lation and was an eye witness to the marriage
of the three wives above mentioned. Besides,
he told her of every one that had been sealed
to him.
	Some of those who apostatized from the
Church, and knew more than she did about
the practice of Polygamy, also denied it; but
there are too many of the Prophet's wives still
living in Utah—as well as hundreds of other
witnesses—who can testify to the hypocrisy of
those men who, like William Marks, aposta-
tized because they could not manage matters
pertaining to the Church as they desired, and
who afterwards volunteered their services to

[Column 3]

help Emma Smith, she having, according to
her own acknowledgment, founded the Joseph-
ite church to revenge herself upon Brigham
Young.
	How little the world who hate and persecute
the Latter-day Saints know of the impelling
motive which induced them to accept and carry
out the principles taught by Joseph Smith, the
great Prophet of the latter days.
	It seems a little strange, too, so greatly des-
pised and hated as "Mormonism" is, that many
of its principles, revealed through the illiterate
boy, Joseph Smith, and taught for fifty years
or more by the Church (doctrines for which
our people have been persecuted and driven,
and many besides the Prophet and Patriarch
slain for advocating) are now being proclaimed
by sectarian ministers, who are applauded for
thus advancing some new idea, never before
thought of. Such blindness is certainly deplor-
able.
	My father was often called a Prophet, and
years ago in Nauvoo I heard him predict that
it would yet become a law of this nation that
men should marry a plurality of wives.
	The Prophet Joseph was heard to say that
in consequence of wars and disasters, men
would become so scarce that when one was
seen it would be said of him, "There goes a
man."
	The following we read in Isaiah: "Thy men
shall fall by the sword, and thy mighty in the
war. And her gates shall lament and mourn:
and she being desolate, shall sit upon the
ground. And in that day seven women shall
take hold of one man saying: We will eat our
own bread and wear our own apparel, only let
us be called by thy name, to take away our
reproach."
	If "coming events cast their shadows before,"
we certainly have no cause to doubt the speedy
fulfilment of this prediction. The first great
commandment given by the Creator has nearly
become obsolete among professed Christians,
who set themselves up as our judges, and as-
sume to be followers of the meek and lowly
Jesus, but instead, have departed from His
precepts, choosing only such portions of the
Scriptures as happen to suit their own ideas,
and ignoring the rest; while the Latter-day
Saints, whom they call heretics, accept it en-
tirely, and believe it to be their duty to obey
every requirement of the Gospel held forth by
our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. Instead
of spiritualizing it, we believe it means exactly
what it says in both the Old and the New Testa-
ments. As other sects have already followed
in the footsteps of the "Mormons" in certain
of their doctrines, we need not be surprised to
eventually hear of their advocating and legal-
izing Polygamy.
	Great exertions have been made by them to
enlighten the minds of the awfully ignorant
and depraved "Mormons," who have rightly
appreciated teh same and also realize how
much more interest they have taken in our be-
half since they found that instead of perish-
ing, as they had hoped we would, we were still
living and increasing in wealth, power and in-
fluence, away off here in the valleys of the
Rocky Mountains. They send their Bible
agents for the purpose, as we suppose, of con-
vincing us of our errors by the Scriptures, for
which we are thankful, as we are more than
anxious that the rising generation in Zion
should understand the Scriptures, as our doc-
trine is founded upon that sacred record. 
	To be continued.


DR. J. G. Holland, editor of Scribner's
Monthly Magazine, and author of "Bitter
Sweet," "Kathrina," and many other beautiful
and tender poems, died suddenly at his resi-
dence in New York City, on Thursday, October
l3, and was buried the following Sunday at
Springfield, Mass.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regualr advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY,	NOVEMBER 1, 1881.


[Column 1]

VISIT TO SANPETE.

	On Wednesday afternoon, September 14, in
company with Sister E. R. S. Smith, we left the
city, intending to make a tour of a part of San-
pete County. Arriving at Nephi, we were met
and warmly welcomed by Sister Amelia Golds-
brough, who accompanied us to the residence of
President Teasdale. After cordial greetings and
a delicious supper, we repaired to the meeting
house, where it was expected Sister Eliza and
her traveling companion would speak to the peo-
ple. The house was filled about equally with
ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Mary Pitchforth
presided. The meeting was an interesting one,
Sister Eliza occupying a considerable portion of
the time.
	The next morning we left Nephi with Mrs.
Goldsbrough added to our party; our route lay
through Salt Creek Canon. It was a pleasant
season of the year, and the varieties of shrub-
bery, the bright and gorgeous coloring of the
luxuriant foliage, made a charming picture 'mid
the magnificence of the mountain scenery. A
passionate admirer of nature in its wild and
rugged beauty could not but be delighted with
the sublimity and grandeur of these towering
mountains, in their most brilliant and gayest
costumes. It seemed as if they all wore their
holiday attire, and it became them well, very
well indeed, for the sides of the gray, rocky, rug-
ged mountains were profusely bedecked with
the brightest scarlet and yellow.
	At Fountain Green we met our dear and hon-
ored friend, Mrs. M. A. Hyde, who had brought
her own carriage to meet us, and her sister, Mrs. 
E. Bentley, who was on her way to St. George.
We took dinner at the Bishop's, whose hospital-
ity is well known to travelers, and about one
o'clock proceeded towards Moroni, reaching there
sometime before nightfall. Bishop Irons and
his good wife, D[-]borah, were expecting us and
gave us good cheer.
	The next morning early, teams began to come
in from other settlements to attend the Sisters'
Stake Conference, President Petersen and many
others from different settlements. Conference
commenced at ten a. m., Mrs. M. A. Hyde pre-
siding. Reports were read from nearly every
settlement in Sanpete Stake, and many inter-
esting speeches were made during the day. Af-
ter the afternoon session adjourned there was a
Conference of the Primary Associations, Mrs. 
Deborah Irons presiding, and in the evening a
meeting for the young people, Mrs, Larson pre-
siding; all were well attended.
	Saturday morning we went on to Fairview,
where there was a meeting of the P. A. in the
afternoon, Levee T. Terry presiding.
	Sunday morning a large number of wagons
and carriages wended their way towards Indian-
ola. Bishop Spencer, Joseph, Nephi and others
were expeccting our arrival, and met the entire
party with a hearty welcome. There were two
meetings there, and the speeches all had to be

[Column 2]

interpreted, which occupied a little more time.
Sister Mary, a Lamanite woman, Counselor to
the President of the Relief Society, delivered an
eloquent address in a manner which would have
reflected credit upon an educated white woman.
In the afternoon Sister Eliza effected an organ-
ization of the children, which included ten little
Lamanites—the first instance of this kind on
record. She also presented each of them with
one of her Primary Hymn Books. The Indians
manifested the greatest interest in all the pro-
ceedings, and one could not help feeling that the
prophecies concerning this down-trodded race
 were about to be fulfilled.
	Leaving Indanola directly after the close of
the meeting, we returned to Fairview, where
another meeting was held in the evening, the
meeting house crowded to its utmost capacity.
	Monday morning drove to Mt. Pleasant; at
Bro. Peel's we were bounteously entertained.
Meeting commenced at two p. m., Mrs. M. F.
C. Morrison presiding. After this meeting the
two Primary Associations came together at five
o'clock, and it was a very interesting time.
	Tuesday morning we repaired to Spring City,
the home of Sister Hyde. The morning meet-
ing was for the Primary Association, Mrs. Sarah
Ellis presiding. It was during intermission we
received the news of the death of President Gar-
field, which, although judging from the later
telegrams we half expected, yet seemed appall-
ing.
	In the afternoon the Relief Society convened,
Mrs. Mary Frantzen presiding, and in the eve-
ning a meeting of the young people, a crowded
house, Annie Eustaceson presiding. Wednes-
day we went over to Ephraim, where we found
flags at half mast, draped with black, presenting
a sad appearance.
	At Prest. Peterson's we met quite a number
of people, and an elaborate dinner had been pre-
pared, to which all our party and the assembled
guests did ample justice. At two o'clock re-
paired to the meeting house. It was a meeting
of the Relief Society, Mrs. Sarah Peterson pre-
siding, but the brethren attended as well as the
sisters, and seemed as much interested. it was
the harvest time, too, but notwithstanding all
the meetings were well filled.
	At five o'clock the two Primaries met in joint
meeting, and there were a good number of exer-
cises, songs, recitations, dialogues, etc., as there
were, indeed, in all the Associations in the
county. A very great improvement has been
made among the children since these organiza-
tions have been instituted, and the Saints can-
not be too grateful to Sister Eliza for the untiring
interest she has manifested in this department
of her labor in Zion, and truly she has joy in her
labors, in seeing the good results that have al-
ready accrued. What will be after they are
furthur initiated in the work, remains to be
known in the future.
	Thursday morning, accompanied by Prest.
Peterson and several other carriages well loaded
with people, our party went on to Manti; passed
the Temple on our way, which is towering up to
a stupendous height, and went direct to the meet-
ing house, which was already filled with breth-
ren and sisters. Mrs. Rebecca Wareham pre-
sided. In the afternoon the two Primaries held
joint meeting, Mrs. Jane Gasto presiding, Miss
Marian Tennant having charge of the exercises,
which were all well rendered. While in Manti
we visited the Temple, Bro. Fulsom explaining
everything, Sisters Eliza, Goldsbrough, Hyde
Peterson and all going to the very highest point
we could possibly reach. It will be a magnifi-
cent structure, the terraces giving it a much
grander and loftier appearance than if it was
not situated upon an eminence. It is in reality
built into the mountain, and fulfils the Scrip

[Column 3]

ture—the House of the Lord shall be built in
the tops of the mountains.
	At Manti, and also in other places, we heard
of the woollen factory the sisters anticipate
building in that County. It is expected the
sisters of the Relief Society will take shares of
five dollars each, sufficient to amount to ten
thousand dollars, by the next Quarterly Confer-
ence in December. This is quite an undertak-
ing; but really the sisters in Sanpete seem equal
to almost anything, and no doubt they will
build the factory, that is, Sister Eliza says "they
will build it as Solomon did the Temple." At
Brother Wareham's our party enjoyed the time
very much in social conversation, and on Friday
morning reluctantly said goodbye to these dear
friends in Manti, and to Sister Hyde, who had
shown us so much kind attention all the way,
and turned our faces homeward. There was
only on meeting to attend on our way home,
and that was at Fountain Green with the Pri-
mary Association. The children there mani-
fested about the same improvement as in other
places, and altogether one cannot help feeling
that the children of the Saints are growing in
the knowledge of the truth.
	At Nephi we had to part with Sister Golds-
brough, who had been with us constantly, and
to whom we grew more and more attached every
day.
	We arrived at home on the 25th, safe and well,
delighted with our journey. Sister Eliza had
improved in health from the time of leaving
home, and although she had spoken to large au-
diences about twenty times during her absence,
returned refreshed and invigorated.

CONFERENCE AT MORGAN

	SISTERS Eliza R. S. Smith and Mary A.
Freeze, of this city, went by train to Morgan
Friday morning, Oct. 21, to attend the Sisters'
Stake Conference of Morgan Co. The Relief
Society Conference was held on Saturday morn-
ing and afternoon sessions, Mrs. Lydia Rich
presiding. Prest. W. G. Smith was present, and
gave the sisters good advice and encouragement.
The reports were satisfactory, and tended to
stimulate to greater endeavors in future. Sister
Eliza and Sister Freeze addressed the people on
subjects pertaining to the work of the Relief
Society, spiritual, mental and benevolent.
	On Sunday morning the Conference of Y. L.
M. I. A. convened, Mrs. Jane Toomar presiding.
The young ladies reported verbally their respec-
tive Associations in a most dignified and credit-
able manner, stating that the Associations were
in good working order. Sister E. R. S. Smith,
Sister Freeze and Prest. Smith each addressed
the young ladies upon such subjects as were cal-
culated to inspire them with courage and a de-
sire to persevere in the work of mutual improve-
ment.
	In the afternoon Sisters Smith and Freeze at-
tended the meeting, and after the Sacrament
had been administered, by request of Prest.
Smith these sisters addressed the congregation.
	On Monday, at two p.m., a Conference of the
Primary Associations of Morgan and the adja-
cent settlements was held, Mrs. Harriet Welsh
presiding. Sister Eliza informs us it was a most
interesting time. The children manifested great
improvement and delighted the sisters greatly
with their intelligent rendering of exercises.
Sister Eliza asked the children all the questions
contained in one of the chapters of the new
book just out, "Bible Questions and Answers."
They were greatly entertained by it, and their
little faces brightened up and their eyes sparkled
with the pleasant pastime. The ladies returned
Tuesday morning, safe and well.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 85


HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE publish in this issue the request to Secre-
taries in regard to sending in reports in time for
the Stake Secretary to prepare her report for the
Secretary of the Central Board, and hope this
will be sufficiently explicit to be understood by
all. Please read it carefully, and then act ac-
cordingly.
	HOME INDUSTRY.—Among the skillful exhibi-
tions of the Ladies' Department, one could but
admire a selection of fancy hair work. People
always surrounded the tasteful collection of
Brother Alfred Andre, a Frenchman, recently
from Paris, who had exhibited about 120 differ-
ent samples of this kind of work, which seemed
to be of great interest to the numerous visitors
of the Fair. Several young ladies had exhibited
some very pretty fancy hair work, but Brother
Andre's was something quite new, and deserved
the first prize, Diploma, which has been awarded
him.
	Here is: the beginning of a more elaborate
home industry in this direction. Mothers hav-
ing buried children may perhaps be gratified to
have the darling's hair as ear-rings, bracelets,
breastpins, watch-guards, necklaces, or preserve
the precious locks in hair pictures, or as memo-
rials, etc.
	Ladies wishing to acquire a knowledge of this
work can obtain the requisite information to en-
able them to make the work themselves, or can
have anything in this line manufactured, by
applying to Prof. A. Andre, Main Street, No. 66,
Salt Lake City.


OBITUARY.

	DIED, in Wellsville, Cache Co, Utah, January
14, 1881, Mrs. Christina Cooper. It is the re-
quest of the relatives and friends of our beloved
and departed sister, and it is our desire, that her
name be recorded in the WONAN'S EXPONENT.
	She was born in Berkshire, England, and em-
braced the Gospel in her native country. After
emigrating to Utah she settled in Wellsville,
and became a member of the Wellsville Relief
Society. She subsequently filled the office of
teacher in the Society, which she honorably held
during the remainder of her life. She was a
faithful Latter-day Saint, and died in hopes of a
glorious resurrection. Sister Cooper was much
beloved by all who knew her. She is an heir of
glory and exaltation; her good deeds will live,
though she has passed away from our sight.
Well may it be said of her, "Blessed are the
dead who die in the Lord."
						SUSANNAH LLOYD.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT. 

AT THE OCTOBER CONFERENCE. 

	President George Q. Cannon read a statistical
and financial report of the Relief societies in
the various Stakes.
							Bushels.
				Cash. Property. Wheat.
Bear Lake		$270 96
Beaver			37 40	$99 20	24
Box Elder		716 75	611 03	1,483
Juab						3,777 45	167
Kanab			404 40			74
Davis			192 79	911 52	779
Davis			(Beans, 17 pounds.)
Millard			181 50	2,573 76	1,167
Panguitch		270 75	868 44	493
Parowan			 5 10	249 01	34
Salt Lake			156 91	1,036 93	2,043
Sanpete			173 01	12,652 30	2,819
St. George		226 04	5,096 49	3,188
Wasatch			11 53	10 53	505
Weber			336 20	1,557 96	2,031
Sevier			42 12	1,230 10	1,000


Eastern Arizona			146 42
San Juan					10 25
Cache			247 42	3,911 -	2,505
Total		 $3,273 18	$36,331 $2	19,168
No reports from Morgan, Summit, Tooele and Utah Stakes.
Total No. of teachers	.	.	.	.	2,073
   "	   "	 members	.	.	.	.	9,405
 "	 "	 officers and members	.	.	12,444
No. of meetings held	.	.	.	.	2,596
Average attendance	.	.	.	.	.	4,195
No. of Exponent taken	.	.	.	.	754
Report accepted.
 A letter from St. George informs us that the
account of wheat stored there is incorrect. Other
reports, from Tooele and Morgan counties, ar-
rived too late, and also a corrected report of fif-
teen branches of Salt Lake Stake.
Y. L. M. I. A.
 President George Q. Cannon read a report from
the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Asso-
ciations, which, condensed, was as follows: Num-
ber of Assocations, 193; number reported, 138;
officers and members, 7,102; meetings held, 5,684;
meetings with Young Men's Mutual Improve-
ment Assocations, 287; chapters of the bible
read, 47,053; Book of Mormon, 14,790; other
Church works, 9,515; books in libraries, 941;
cash and other property held, $111,340; wheat
on hand, 1,071 bushels. There were no reports
from Beaver, Cache and Manti Stakes.


ATTENTION, SECRETARIES!

	The Secretaries of Relief Societies in Salt
Lake Stake are urgently requested to send in
their semi-annual reports by the 5th of March,
as it is impossible for the Stake Secretary to
makes a correct report unless she receives the
report from each Society in due time.
				M. ISABELLA HORNE, Prest.
				ELIZABETH HOWARD, Sec'y


[Column 1]
AN OPEN LETTER.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Dear Friend—Had I had the pleasure of a
visit from you, I should not have to explain
"the wherefor and why" that my little article,
"The City of the Saints," remains unfinished
in the EXPONENT; for verily 'tis a favorite
subject with me, and shall yet receive a finale,
D. V. I never ask pardon of my friends for
being somewhat egotistical, as it always appears
to cast a doubt upon their affection for me;
judging them from myself, I come to this con-
clusion: my friends' joys and sorrows, health
and sickness, and, indeed, all their affairs I am
interested in, and when they speak of them-
selves my heart, brain, eyes and ears compose
a loving audience, and I feel they pay me a
compliment.
	After this prelude I will say, for the last
three months I have experienced an entire
prostration, mentally and physically, of vital
strength, and nothing but the Spirit of God
and my own will kept me from giving up much
that I felt was my imperative duty to do; so I
have been nursing myself, waiting and hoping.
I have let my mind, my heart and my brain
"lay fallow," as the wise husbandman does oc-
casionally portions of his land that calls for
such repose; I have allowed neither the plow,
nor the harrow, nor the roll to pass over them,
nor seed to be thrown into them; they have
been open to the pure air of heaven, its rain,
and dew, and sunshine; the thunder and the
lightning have rolled over them, and made the
atmosphere pure and healthy. In this state
they have lain in a glorious inertia! Will
they again rise up invigorated with health,
and strength, and vigor, and bring forth fruit?

[Column 2]
I feel very passive about it; I look at my pen
and soliloquise: Thou dear little siren, how
thou hast blest me! e'en from my childhood's
days thy little plume has wafted me in golden
visions, been the portrayer of my soul, in which
I have seen myself as in a mirror! By thine
aid I have held sweet communion with the
pure and good, the intelligent, the kind, the
loving, the true and faithful, even unto death!
As I write, the desire comes back to
wield again this little weapon, which, in the
hands of the magnates of the ages, has been,
and is, and will be far mightier than the sword!
	How this little instrument has blest me! and
many tell me I have blest them by it. And
then I yearn to still have the power to bless
myself in blessing others. These thoughts
cause my eyes to naturally turn upward, and
their silent language to the Great Physician is—
touch my heart and brain with a coal from off
thine eternal altar, where burns the fire of
Eternal Love! Arouse the dormant spirit; as a
harp is struck by the hand of the master and
responds to his touch, give me power to strike
chords that shall vibrate in the hearts of all
my readers. I desire not that ephemeral thing
called fame, I was not organized for it; I desire
but to live in the hearts of my brethren and
sisters in time and all eternity.
	Your last issue of the EXPONENT pleased
me much. The article on "good reading"
should be reduced to practice by all. "Simple
Simon" is surely a wise man! How truthful
his words and comprehension of matters that
have come under the ban of prohibition, sim-
ply because the subject has not been investi-
gated with an unprejudiced mind. Surely we,
as Saints that have suffered, and daily suffer
from this sort of judgement, and verdict without
the Court, should suspend our judgment until
we can say positively, this is good, and that is
evil. But surely the names alone of Scott,
Bulwer, Dickens (whose weird and pathetic
pictures of the poor of London called forth an
Act of Parliament for ameliorating their con-
dition), George Elliot, Elizabeth Browning,
and a host of others, will establish the fact,
that a community will be enlightened and
benefitted by the perusal of such works.—But
I am writing a letter, not an article. I see
you have two new contributors— that is good;
tell them to ever take Excelsior for their motto.
	My best wishes are for you and our unique
little paper; may we soon see an enlarged edi-
tion, which many are looking for and may I
be enabled to cast my mite into the treasury of
mental wealth of the EXPONENT, is the desire
of your correspondent,
						HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City, Oct. 23, 1881.


LETTER FROM LULA.

SALT LAKE CITY, Oct. 20,1881.

DEAR AUNT EM:—
	I want to give you a brief account of a
short but very interesting visit which I lately
made to Spanish Fork, in company with my
husband's mother, Mrs. Sarah G. Richards.
It was known that we contemplated visiting
that place, to see our dear old friend, Sister
Gwynn Morgan Lewis, now in her eighty-third
year; we were therefore solicited to be there
on Monday, October 17, and attend a joint
annual meeting of the Relief Society and Pri-
mary Association. We were pleased to com-
ply, and accordingly took the two o'clock
Southern train Sunday afternoon. The little
three and a half hour ride was a very enjoy-
able one to me. Passing the "Point of the
Mountain, and looking westward at the ponds
and springs, and what I could see of Porter
Rockwell's old place, many recollections and
reflections passed through my mind.


[Column 1]
	I remembered of riding over those grounds
more than twenty-three years ago. It was
Sunday then, it was Sunday now; but it was
morning and Springtime then, now it was after-
noon and Autumn; I was then a child, who
am now nearing middle age; I rode with my
mother that day, it was my husband's mother
by whose side I now sat; "meat horses," (as our
little boys have it) carried us forward then,
now we were drawn by the power, the wonder-
ful power of steam. That old place had been
my home for two years, when the call of 1858
for everybody to move south, caused my fa-
ther to vacate the premises. Then it was that
Sunday morning, April 5, my brother-in-law
took my mother and her two youngest children
then living, myself and little brother, to his
home in Provo City.
	How well I remember my childish thoughts
and feelings that Sunday morning. I was nine
years old—quite old enough to have distinct
ideas of many things. I thought of my ram-
blings about over those hills and rocks, and
through the sagebrush with my brothers and
sisters, and wondered if we should never come
back to walk there any more. And a still
more serious feeling was also present with me—
my baby brother was sleeping there; at least,
the lovely little form which they had boxed up
and buried in such a deep, deep place in the
ground! We were going to leave that little
grave by the house all alone! Would the
good angels be sure to remember and see that
no harm should come to it? What was death?
Should I like to die and leave my dear, loving
parents and friends? No! I remember of
thinking that I should not like to die, even for
the sake of seeing my two baby brothers, of
both of whom I thought with the tenderest
love and solicitation.
	All these memories, and many more, passed
vividly through my mind the other day, while
we were half circling around the old place I
have mentioned. Then followed a long train
of thoughts upon the resurrection and kindred
topics.
	Brother and Sister Cornaby, whose acquain-
tance we happily formed during the late Gen-
eral Conference, gave us so warm and cheer-
ing a welcome to their home in Spanish Fork,
that if the latter portion of our journey had
seemed somewhat chilly, all its unpleasantness
was soon forgotten.
	Being quite fatigued, mother remained with
Sister Cornaby that night, and, in fact, during
most of the time of our stay in the settlement.
But after supper, kindly conducted by Brother
Cornaby, I went to find the special object of
our visit, "Sister Morgan." Here I found an-
other hearty welcome awaited me, not only
from the dear old lady herself, but also from
her family connections. Brother and Sister
Lewis, and later several of their sons and
daughters, all of whom seem to be happily
married and engaged in the laudable enter-
prise of raising fine Latter-day Saint families.
	The next morning Sister Morgan went with
me to see mother, and we spent a very pleasant
forenoon with Sister Cornaby. Of this estim-
able lady and her husband I will say, they
need but to be known to be appreciated by
those who can appreciate true worth of char-
acter.
	After dinner, Sister Mary Ann M'Lean
came to escort us to the meeting house, where
the joint meeting was to commence at two
o'clock p. m. This dear young woman seems
to have a full share of public responsibilities
apportioned to her, she being Secretary of the
Relief Society, of which Sister Mary Ferguson
is President, Counselor to Sister Morrison, who
presides over the organization of young ladies,
and President of the Primary Association.
She also teaches their district school. All
these positions I believe she fills with great
satisfaction to her friends and co-workers, if
not always to herself.

[Column 2]
	At the meeting house we greeted and were
greeted in turn by many friends, including
"Ma Smoot" and Sister John, from Provo.
These sisters, holding the presidency of the
Stake organization of the Relief Society, gave
much good instruction to their sisters in Span-
ish Fork. Sister Thurber, from the South,
was also present, and gave a very interesting
address. Sister Rhoda Snell, the veteran silk
raiser of Spanish Fork, and President of the
Silk Association in that place, made an excel-
lent speech in favor of home manufacture. I
was most interested with the children, and
talked to them and of them most; not only be-
cause I was requested to do so, but because the
spirit so directed me.
	Mother felt too feeble to address the con-
gregation, but before meeting opened, I
heard her relate a circumstance, which
seemed to me so beautiful, in connection with
the children's meetings, that I thought it wor-
thy of being remembered and recorded.
	She said that more than thirty years ago
the children of the Latter-day Saints used
to have their little meetings, and sing and
pray and bear testimony, and sometimes they
would give blessings and speak in tongues and
prophesy. She was at one of these meetings
with her little son, then a baby. Sister Ellen
Rockwood conducted the meeting and inter-
preted for those children who spoke in tongues.
President Joseph Young, who presided so long
over the Seventies, was there, and the chil-
dren placed their hands upon his head and
blest him, and he wept for joy. They also
blest the babe which mother had taken to their
meeting, and said he should become a man of
great faith and wisdom in Israel, and should
go to his mother's country and there proclaim
the glad tidings of the Gospel of salvation;
which has been literally fulfilled.
	After meeting, all the visitors, and quite a
number besides, were invited to Sister Fergu-
son's, where we partook of an excellent supper.
	The people of Spanish Fork live well, and
well they may. Most bountiful harvests of
grain, fruit and honey have this year crowned
their labors. More than three thousand dol-
lars' worth of dried fruit, we were informed,
has been purchased of individuals by their co-
operative store.
	Another meeting was held in the evening,
under the auspices of the Young Ladies' Mu-
tual Improvement Association, to which all,
young and old were invited. In this meeting
I think all enjoyed the Spirit of the Lord, and
rejoiced in the determination to serve Him
henceforth with all diligence. The testimonies,
the exhortations and the instructions given all
tended to show that the speakers felt well in
their religion, and were calculated to make
their hearers feel the same.
	Mother and I returned home by the half
past six train Tuesday morning, thankful for
the many blessings which had attended us, and
for the many kind evidences that our visit to
Spanish Fork had not been a fruitless mission.


86	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE PRIMARY FAIR AT PROVO.

	The Children's Fair of Provo took place
October 15, under the management of Presi-
dent Zina Y. Williams, in the Third Ward
Assembly Rooms. At the commencement hour
the Hall was filled with visitors, and the atten-
dance increased largely during the day.
	Bishop J. E. Booth, delivered a brief
and pleasing address, referring in highly eulo-
gistic terms to the labors of the children. The
speaker said that had the various exhibits been
produced by adults, still they would be credit-
able; they show indeed a bright prospect for
home industry when those children come to
riper years.
	Under the Superintendent's direction, the
exhibition was then declared formally opened.


A specification of any of the varied and in-
deed beautiful exhibits would be an injustice
to some, and hence a very brief outline sketch
must suffice. Four Wards occupied a corner
each, and the Fifth Ward the middle of the
room. Ropes were placed around the room,
from which hung a variety of quilts, of which
we counted upwards of twenty, tidies in as
great a number, and netted, knit and embroid-
ered work, besides a grand display of dress ar-
ticles. Upwards of twenty yards of carpet;
too, were on exhibition, the rags for which
were prepared by boys. Each ward's display
of fancy work consisted of various wax and
woollen flowers and fruit, in globes and on vel-
vet background. Eleven pounds of cocoons,
raised by a girl ten years old, called forth
many eulogies, as, indeed, did the various
wreaths, baskets and seed frames. Specimens
of carving from wood, in form of brackets,
fence models, wagons, etc., also oil paintings,
bottles of homemade wine, a pair of riveted
halters and a variety of garden vegetables are
among the boys' production. The girls' tables
showed an elegant and tempting spread of
eatables, chiefly in the form of pastry and pre-
serves.
	An intermission was announced from 12 m.
to 1 p. m., when visitors were again allowed
to come in and witness what the children had
done. At two o'clock they were called to or-
der by Prest. Williams, and the children sang,
"In our lovely Deseret." One from each ward
then favored the company with a song or reci-
tation.
	Bishop Tanner then made a few pleasing re-
marks, saying he felt gratified to see what had
been done toward improving the minds and
developing the energies of the young, and
wished them to continue to advance in the
good work. Closed by asking God to bless
the children of the Latter-day Saints.
	President Smoot considered the work done
highly commendable, and desired the young to
become acquainted with the arts and sciences
as well as their religion, as that would bring
this kingdom in advance of all others in all
things. He encouraged the officers to continue
in patient labor, and closed by asking the
blessings of God to rest upon all who were in-
terested in the welfare of the children of Zion.
	The Fair continued until nine o'clock in the
evening, to accommodate those who could not
come during the day. The evening was also
interspersed with songs and recitation.
				SARAH E. CLUFF,
	Stake Secretary Utah Primary Association.


GOSHEN PRIMARY FAIR.

	The Primary Association of Goshen held
their Fair on the 24th of September last. We
were visited by Sisters Zina Y. Williams,
President of P. A. Utah Stake, and Mary Jane
John, her Counselor, who gave us much good
instruction and advice in relation to our duties,
as the children of the parents who had sacri-
ficed so much for the upbuilding of the king-
dom of God upon the earth. They gave us
excellent advice, by precept and example, in
relation to many duties that devolve upon us.
The time was well and profitably spent, and it
was a never-to-be-forgotten feast for both old
and young.	
	The little ones displayed untiring zeal in
their endeavors to accomplish what they had
undertaken for the occasion. There was home-
made bread, cake and popcorn, tidies, mottoes,
hanging-baskets, socks, aprons, rakes, hayrack,
cradle quilts, dolls dressed by hand, and every-
thing done by the hands of the little ones them-
selves. There was a little churn made for the
occasion, to be worked by horse, steam or water
power, patent to be applied for. Brother Ed-
wards had several instruments on exhibition,
and explained in a brief and lucid manner


their uses in steering ships across the trackless
deep. We had also a drawing of the St.
George Temple, by Miss Julia Jasperson, also
a collection, of numerous insects by a little
naturalist. Among other things on exhibition
were lamp mats, lamp covers, wax flowers,
children's clothes of different kinds, adobies,
and other things, too numerous to mention. A
few verses written for the occasion were well
rendered by Miss Mary E. Morgan. The little
ones also recited and sung, their fresh young
voices rich and clear, making sweet melody,
and altogether we spent a very enjoyable day,
the Spirit of the Lord enlivening everything
around us.
			SARAH ROBERTS. PRES'T.
			CHRISTINA HIGGINSON, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R.S., Y.L.M.I.A. AND PRIMARY
		REPORTS.
			--
		UTAH STAKE.
			---

	Minutes of the Twelfth Quarterly Confer-
ence of the Relief Societies of Utah County,
held August 25, 1881. Present on the stand,
Prest. Margaret T. Smoot, Coun. Mary John,
Secretary, Corresponding Secretary, etc.; breth-
ren of the priesthood, Bishops Johnson, Tan-
ner and Madsen.
	Meeting opened by the usual exercises of
singing and prayer, after which Sister M. T.
Smoot made a few remarks, and following
Sister Snow Smith's advice, in having the sis-
ters speak first, and the brethren, being the
stronger, to follow, so that it we say anything
that needs correcting it can be corrected. Said
she felt thankful that our lives were spared to
meet together again, while many had been
called to pass behind the vail. Said, I feel
to look up to the Priesthood, but I also love to
hear the sisters speak. In my remarks I have
ever enjoined it upon the sisters to be obedient
to the Priesthood, so they will never conflict.
We have a great work before us; it is continu-
ous, it will never lessen. I do not feel to be
tedious, and do not wish to take up the time.
There are many called, but few  chosen; let us
seek to be among the chosen ones. Let us
work out our salvation, even unto a fullness of
glory, is my prayer.
	Sister Mary John followed with a few ap-
propriate remarks, after which Bishop Tanner
addressed the Conference, saying: I am pleased
in hearing the reports of the societies; the la-
bors that we are engaged in, with the desire to
build up Zion, will tend to give us our reward,
and God will sustain us, and without Him we
can do nothing. Let our light so shine that
all can see it. Let us be a blessing to the poor
and cheer those that are cast down. Jesus
says love your neighbor as yourself. When we
go to help the sick let us go in the name of
Israel's God; and then we will prosper.
	Bishop Madsen said: I have watched with 
interest these societies ever since I became ac-
quainted with them; even the name of Relief
Society is sweet. In times of sickness and dis-
tress can you find a sweeter word than relief?
Can anything be sweeter to the sisters in times
of sickness and trouble than to have sisters
come in to see them, bringing with them the
Spirit of God? and they will be sure to com-
fort and relieve. We should at all times culti-
vate the principles of love and union, and then
you would be always welcome, and the more
strength you will have. I desire to live my
religion, do my duty and be humble before
God, and thus will we be saved.
	Bishop Johnson said: It is through the good-
ness of God that we are enabled to meet to-
gether again. I endorse all that has been
said. Let us attend to our duties and put our
trust in God instead of the doctors and then
the Lord will remove the sickness from our
midst, and not before.
	It was moved that we adjourn until 1:30
p.m. Benediction by Bishop Tanner.
	Afternoon session convened at the time ap-
pointed, most of the time being taken up by
the Presidents with verbal reports of their so-
cieties, each testifying to the faithfulness of
the faithful few.
	Ma Smoot, as she is affectionately designated,
said the sisters have a good excuse for not be
ing at  meeting at this busy season of the year.
I am pleased with o r reports; I would like to
praise the sisters for their good works, for I 
like to be praised sometimes when I do any-
thing that deserves praise. Let us improve
our time, that we may not be too late to enter
the kingdom of God.
	Our aged sister, Mother Duke, made a few
remarks, saying: While listening to Sister
Smoot I have had peculiar feelings. I am
getting along towards the grave; many have
already gone before, some have gone since our
last Conference. Where are their spirits?
They are mingling with those behind the vail;
and we too will soon be there. The founders
of this latter-day work are there; we have as-
sociated with them, they have traversed this
earth without purse or scrip, sometimes with-
out food, to bear their testimony to this gen-
eration; we are their sisters that associated
with them in the eternal worlds, and we shall
meet with them again. I am glad to mingle
my voice with you in telling of the goodness
of God, that the Spirit may flow from one to
another. Your faces shine; the outside world
does not know what we know. We are chil-
dren of the Most High God, and Father takes
care of us.
	Sister L. W. Kimball spoke in the interest
of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT; also notified
those present that there were a few more of
those homemade silk handkerchiefs for sale.
Exhorted the sisters to pray for Sister Zina D.
Young and those with her, and added, "May
life, health and peace be your portion, is my
prayer."
	Ma Smoot said: While listening to my sisters
speaking of the goodness of God, and speak-
ing of the laborers, I think with Sister Eliza
R. that the Teachers have the greatest bur-
dens on their shoulders; we often ask for the
prayers of our sisters; if we as societies, or
wards, would make it a matter of prayer for
any particular thing we want, the Lord would
hear our prayers, for He has said where two or
three meet together in my name, there will I
be also. I see many faces here to-day that are
aged, and I feel tender towards them, for I am
one of them myself. Let us pray for one an-
other that we may continue faithful. Amen.
	It was moved that Conference be adjourned
for three months. Benediction by Bishop
Johnson.
			CAROLINE DANIELS, Sec'y.


[Column 1]
HOW TO OBTAIN IT.

	Not a very intelligent caption I will allow;
and I will also admit that the rhetorical rule,
requiring the first sentence of an article to
foreshadow that which is to follow has not
been adhered to. However insignificant it
may appear, there were reasons both for the
unintelligent caption and for the equally mys-
terious initiatory sentence. Had it been headed
"Influence," which would have conveyed an
idea of the burden of the article, it would have
proved uninviting, and few would have read
even this far; while, had the first sentence been
consistent with the rhetorical rule above re-
ferred to, those who perused that far would
have arrived at the conclusion that it was the
same old thing they had read a hundred times,
and which had been threadbare from the first.

[Column 2]
While it is not my intention to moralize in
this regard, it will not be amiss if a hint
known well among the Bohemian fraternity,
is dropped to literary tyros: Hide, as long
as you can—and still retain the attention of
your readers—that which you intend to say.
The more mystery you infuse into your pro-
ductions, of whatever nature, the better the
great and intelligent public will like them. If
there are any who dispute this assertion, I have
but to refer them, for irrefutable proof, to
the thousand and one dodges resorted to by
the proprietors of quack medicines to secure
public attention. A reader may suddenly be-
come interested in the description of a new
disease, and find that it can be cured by Si-
mon's patent swill; he will see that a buried
city has been unearthed. and after reading a
few lines, finds that the discovery of this lost
city is like the discovery of great cure for all
evils, etc. The more mystery you have, the
better your readers will like it. It is just as
well also to remind readers, that they often
miss many a jewel thought because the writer
has been unfortunate enough to clothe it with
a homely or threadbare heading. Readers
should recollect that, as many a true and noble
heart beats beneath a homespun coat, so many
a bright and valuable idea may plod through
the world under an old and despised title. I'm
afraid my preface will be longer than my book,
but here's for it.
	Peculiar people have peculiar notions about
influence, and some people who are not peculiar
also have peculiar ideas about it. Nothing
particularly original is claimed for the idea,
but I hold that influence and confidence are so
closely allied that it will take a remarkably
discriminating mind to separate them; at least
they are that closely allied for the purposes of
this article. It is a popular idea that money
will bring influence, and it is true; that power
will secure influence, which is also true; but it
is an ephemeral influence, which reflects no
credit on those exercising it. Influence, how-
ever, will win wealth and power; in fact, it is a
power, as potent as any that can be wielded.
	In life the first thing to be striven to main-
tain—it applies to children, to boys and girls,
to men and to women, to all with the same
force—is honesty and uprightness in all things.
These should be maintained for themselves
alone; for, like virtue, they are their own re-
ward. Ambition is an element in every life—
that is, every life not blighted too early by af-
fliction, or by ignorance; and the gratification
of ambition is the exercise of influence—for
influence is a mighty power. To obtain this
influence different methods are devised by dif-
ferent minds; but I do not care how well laid
the plans may be, upon what logical deductions
they may be based, nor how carefully and fully
they may be carried out, unless they are
founded upon upright principles, they will fail.
They may triumph for a time, but the founda-
tion is of sand, and when the waves run high
the sand melts away in tho ocean, and the
super-structure falls a ruined mass,a monument,
while the the memory of it lasts, to the folly
of the designer.
	It is a common assumption that popularity
is influence; no greater fallacy can be enter-
tained. Popularity is of momentary develop-
ment—borne for one brief moment in the
wind of public opinion, and then lost to all
eternity; while influence, like confidence, is a
plant of slow growth. Years are required for
its roots to take a firm hold, but when once it
has become congenial to the soil, the mightiest
hurricanes of envy, and malice, and hatred,
blow round it in vain. It is a rock of ada-
mant, a loadstone, attracting the honest and
the true. Nothing is so thoroughly disgusting
as the desire manifested on all sides, by men
and by women, for public notoriety, sought for
under the impression that it is popularity. It


is a mistaken idea. Influence, like true love,
comes unasked, and following in its wake may
be found all that is so vainly sought and so ar-
dently desired, by those who resort to petty
expedients and trifling devces for a little eclat.
	The man of influence is one whose whole life
supports him in all he says and all he does. If
he says he will do a thing, the history of that
man's life passes through the minds of his
hearers, and every former act comes to the
front, and declares in words of gold, that he
will do what he says. He has proven himself
to be a man of truth and of honesty, and all
who know him know that his word is as good
as his life. He has won their confidence. I
do not care how ignorant that man is; I do not
care how bad may be the people among whom
he lives, that man must have influence. It is
as sure to follow an upright course, as disease
is to follow a violation of the laws of nature;
and I do not care how polished a man may
be, how intelligent, how educated, how elo-
quent, if he is not honest, if he is not truthful,
he can wield no personal influence. He may
talk with the tongue of an angel, he may tell
the truths of a God--and people will believe
them because they are true--but they come
with no force from the lips of the liar, or the
politician, or the hypocrite. While the man
of honesty tells his simple truths, and they are
treasured, because his hearers know he would
not tell them what he does, unless he firmly
believed what he says.
	Honesty and truth, morality and the virtues
are the foundation for influence, and unless
you observe these cardinal principles, you may
as well strive to get the moon as to obtain a 
permanent influence.
	Do not be misled. You must be good to be
influential; and after a few years of honesty
and truthfulness, you will find your power in-
crease as you are intelligent; and the longer
you follow such a course greater will become
your power, for every act of your lives will
back you up in what you say. That is the way,
and the only way to obtain influence.
					SIMPLE SIMON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
MISCELLANEOUS.

	THE Iowa Woman Suffrage Association will
hold its tenth annual convention, in Marshall-
town, Nov. 10 and 11, 1881.

	ANNA E. Dickenson is to begin her threatri-
cal tour on the 2d of January, as Hamlet, fol-
lowing that with Claude Melnotte and Mac-
beth.

	MRS. Zina D. Young and Dr. Ellen B. Fer-
guson were just leaving Albany to attend the
congress at Buffalo at date of last letters re-
ceived from them.

	THE Woman Suffrage Society of Polk
County celebrated its eleventh anniversary
by a tea party on the 25th ult. in Des Moines,
at the residence of Mrs. M. J. Coggeshall.

	SUPPOSING all the great points of Atheism
were formed into a kind of creed, I would fain
ask whether it would not require an infinitely
greater measure of faith than any set of arti-
cles which they so violently oppose.—Addison.

	THE ladies are to the fore in the Higher Lo-
cal Examinations. While only sixteen men
presented themselves for the Cambridge Uni-
versity test last June, 866 women above the
age of eighteen years offered themselves at the
centres. Honor to whom honor is due!

	MRS. Hayes, wife of ex-President Hayes,
gave a reception last week at the pleasant resi-
dence of ex-Governor Claflin, Newtonville. It
was of an informal nature, and was well at-
tended by the representative families of New-
ton. It lasted from three till six o'clock. Af-
terward Mrs. Hayes and Mrs. Claflin paid a

[Column 2]
visit to John G. Whit[-]ier, at his home in Dan-
vers.—Ex.

	THE ninth annual congress of the Associa-
tion for the Advancement of Women met at
Buffalo, N. Y., on the 19th inst. The attend-
ance was large, delegates being present from
nearly all the cities in the Union. An able
and exhaustive inaugural was delivered by
Mrs. Julia Ward Howe. Papers by Mrs.
Mary F. Eastman, on "Factory Girls," and by
Kate Gannet Wells, (all of Boston,) on "Out-
door Occupation," were read.—Ex.

	YOUNG "Coningsby's" future home, into pos-
session of which he will come when he is of
age, is in the meantime to be let for his benefit.
Hughenden will probably fetch a good rent.
Many people would like the honor and glory
of living where the Tory chief lived. Con-
ingsby will thus have another addition made
to the fortune which is to be carefully nursed
for him. It is small enough now, but Lord
Beaconsfield has chosen careful executors, and
when the impassive youth comes of age, he
will probably have quite enough to support the
peerage which it is said the Queen hopes to
give him, and his uncle's party might easily
obtain for him.

	LORD Beaconsfield must have been a joy to
the printers if, as the manuscripts of some of
his early novels seem to show, he was in the
habit of writing on both sides of the paper.
The author of "Vivian Grey" knew how to be
original, even in little things. It appears that
his handwriting was not more legible in his
early than in his later years. How many dis-
tinguished authors have taken a pride in their
caligraphy? Dickens did, and so did Thacke-
ray. The MSS. of "Little Dorrit" and "Mar-
tin Chuzzlewit," which are to be seen at the
South Kensington Museum are models of pen-
manship. Thackeray always wrote a hand
which seemed in keeping with the delicate
fancy and artistic finish of his work. But
there are exceptions, and if any one wants to
know how villianously a great man can scrawl
his ideas, he should look at the handwriting of
Carlyle.


﻿YOUNG MISSIONARIES.

	ON Monday morning, Octobere 24th, Bishop
O. F. Whitney, left this city on a mission to
Great Britain. Brother Whitney is eminent-
ly gifted with a versatility of superior talents,
which ably qualify and endow him to labor as
a writer or preacher in the ministry to which
he has been called and ordained by the ser-
vants of God. We sincerely wish him a safe
and pleasant journey to his place of destina-
tion. On the 9th of August Elder John Q.
Cannon started on a mission to the same place.
Brothers Whitney and Cannon were both em-
ployed on the editorial staff of the Desert
News for some time previous to their call to
this mission. They are young men of bright
promise, of whom much is expected, and we
have no doubt they will succeed admirably in 
their field of labor in the European mission,
but they will be missed in many places here,
where they were greatly beloved and esteemed.
						E.B.W.


[Column 1]
H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77, 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

[Column 2]
NOTICE.

HAVING PROCURED A MANNIKIN CHART SPE-
cimens, etc., I am now prepared to give instructions
in the art of Obstetrics and other branches connected there-
with. My class will open Nov. 1st, 1881. Those wishing to
join this class will please communicate with me at once, it
being necessary to send cast for books. Terms: Tuition, 60
Lessons, $30; books, three in number, $12. Address,
					E. R. SHIPP, M.D., Salt Lake City.
	OFFICE and RESIDENCE in Contributor building first door
north of Z. C. M. I.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obe found in the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

FOR SALE.

Home-Made SILK,
AT
CUTLER'S COMMISSION STORE.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
[image of dentures]
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE.—MAIN ST. OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P. O. BOX, 541.

A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

PALACE OF FASHION, NO. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Spring and Summer Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 15, 1881. 	NO. 12.


MARY, QUEEN OF SCOTTS.
			------------
I look'd far back into other years, and lo! in bright
	array,
I saw, as in a dream, the form of ages passed away.
It was a stately convent, with its old and lofty walls,
And gardens, with their broad, green walks, where soft
	the footstep falls;
And o'er the antique dial stones the creeping shadows
	passed,
And all around the noonday sun a drowsy radiance cast
No sound of busy life was heard, save from the cloister
	dim, 
The tinkling of the silver bell, or the sisters' holy hymn.
And there five noble maidens sat, beneath the orchard 
	trees,
In that first budding Spring of youth, when all its pros-
	pects please;
And little rocked they when they sang, or knelt at ves-
	per prayers,
That Scotland knew no prouder names, held none more
	dear than theirs;
And little even the loveliest thought, before the Virgin's
	shrine,
Of royal blood and high descent, from the ancient Stuart
	line;
Calmly her happy days flew on, uncounted in their flight,
And as they flew, they left behind a long, continuing 
	light.

The scene was changed. It was the court--the gay court
	of  Bourbon--
And 'neath a thousand silver lamps a thousand courtiers
	throng,
And proudly kindles Henry's eye, well pleased, I ween
	to see
The land assemble all its wealth of grace and chivalry.
Grey Montmoreney, o'er whose head has passed a storm
	of years,
Strong in himself and children stands, the first among 
	his peers;
And next the Guises, who so well Fame's steepest heights
	assail'd,
And walked Ambition's diamond ridge, where bravest
	hearts have failed;
And higher yet their path shall be, stronger shall wax
	their might,
For before them, Montmoreney's star shall pale its wan-
	ing light;
Here Louis, Prince of Conde, wears his all unconquered
	sword,
With great Coligni by his side--each name a household
	word;
And here walks she of Mediel, that proud Italian line,
The mother of a race of kings, the haughty Catherine;
The forms that follow in her train a glorious sunshine
	make--
A milky way of stars that grace a comet's glittering
	wake.
But fairer far than all the rest who bask on Fortune's 
	tide, 
Effulgent in the light of youth, is she, the new made
	bride.
The homage of a thousand hearts, the fond, deep love of
	one,
The hopes that dance around a life whose charms are but
	begun;
They lighten up her chestnut eye, they mantle o'er her
	cheek;
They sparkle on her open brow, and high-soul joy be- 
	speak.

The scene was changed. It was a barque that slowly
	held its way,
And o'er its lea the coast of France in the light of eve-
	ning lay;
And on its deck a lady sat, who gazed with tearful eyes
Upon the fast receding hills that dim and distant rise.  
No marvel that the lady wept, there was no land on
	earth
She loved like that dear land, although she owed it not
	her birth;
It was her mother's land, the land of childhood and of 
	friends;
It was the land where she had found for all her griefs
	amends;
The land where her dead husband slept, the land where
	she had known
The franquil convent's hushed repose, and the splendors 
	of a throne-
No marvel that the lady wept, it was the land of France
The chosen home of chivalry, the garden of romance.
The past was bright, like those dear hills so far behind
	her barque--
The future, like the gathering night, was ominous and
	dark.
One gaze again, one long, last gaze, "Adieu, fair
	France," cried she;
The breeze come forth, she is alone on the unconscious
	sea.

The scene was changed. It was an eve of raw and surly
	mood,
And in a turret chamber high of ancient Holyrood
Sat Mary, listening to the rain, and sighing with the
	winds,
That seemed to suit the stormy state of men's uncertain
	minds.
The touch of care had blanched her cheek, her smile was
	sadder now,
The weight of royalty had pressed too heavy on her
	brow;
And traitors to her council came, and rebels to the field--
The Stuart sceptre well she sway'd, but the sword she
	could not wield.
She thought of blighted hopes and dreams of yonth’s
	brief day,
And summoned Rizizo with his lute, and bade the min-
	strel play
The songs she loved in early years, the songs of gay Na-
	varre--
The songs, perchance, that erst were sung by gallant
	Chatelur;
They half beguiled her of her cares, and soothed her
	into smiles,
And won her thoughts from bigot zeal and fierce do-
	mestic broils.
But hark! the tramp of armed men, the Douglas battle-
	cry;
They come, they come, and lo! the scowl of Ruthven's
	hollow eye;
And swords are drawn, and daggers gleam, and tears
	and words are vain--
The ruffian's steel is in his heart, the faithful Rizzio's
	slain.
Then Mary Stuart brushed aside the tears that trickling 
	fell
"Now fo rmy father's arm," she cried; "my woman's
	heart, farwell!"

The scene was changed. It was a lake with one small,
	lonely isle;
And there, within the prison walls of its baronial pile,
Stern men stood menacing their Queen, till she should
	stoop to sign
The traitorous scroll that snatched the crown from her
	ancestral line.
"My lords, my lords," the captive said, "were I but
	once more free,
With ten good knights on yonder shore to aid my cause
	and me,
That parchment I would scatter wide to every wind that
	blows,
And once more reign a Stuart Queen o'er my remoreless
	foes."
A red spot burned upon her cheek, streamed her rich
	tresses down;
She wrote the words, she stood erect--a Queen without 
	 a crown.

The scene was changed. A royal host a royal bannor
	bore,
And the faithful of the land stood round their smiling
	Queen once more;
She stayed her steed upon a hill, who saw them march
	ing by,
She heard their shouts, she read success in every flashing
	eye.
The tumult of the strife begins, it roars, it dies away;
And Mary's troops and banners now, and courtiers,
	where are they?
Scattered and strewn and flying far, defenceless and un-
	done--
O God! to think what she has lost, and think what guilt
	has won.
Away, away! thy galiant steed must act no laggard
	part,
Yet vain thy speed, for thou dost bear the arrow in thine
	heart.

The scene was changed. Beside the block a sullen
	headsman stood,
And gleamed the broad axe in his hand, that soon must
	drip with blood.
With slow and steady step there came a lady through
	the hall,
And breathless silence chained the lips and touched the
	hearts of all;
Rich were the sable rocks she wore, her white veil round
	her fell,
And from her neck there hung the cross; the cross she
	loved so well.
I knew that queenly form again, though blighted was
	its bloom;
I saw that grief had decked it out, an offering for the 
	tomb;
I knew the eye, though faint its light, that once so
	brightly shone,
I knew the voice, though feeble now, that thrilled with
	every tone;
I knew the ringlets, almost grey, once threads of living
	gold;
I knew that bounding grace of step, that symmetry of
	mould.
Even now I see her far away, in that calm convent aisle,
I hear her chant her vesper hymn, I mark her holy smile;
Even now I see her bursting forth upon her bridal morn,
A new star in the firmament, to light and glory born.
Alas! the change - she placed her foot upon a triple
	throne,
And on the scaffold now she stands, beside the block,
	alone;
The little dog that licks her hands, the last of all the
	crowd
Who sunned themselves beneath her glance and round
	her footsteps bowed.
Her neck is bared, the blow is struck, the soul has passed
	away;
The bright, the beautiful is now a bleeding piece of clay.
The dog is moaning piteously, and, as it gurgles o'er,
Laps the warm blood that trickling fell, unheeded, to
	the floor;--
The blood of beauty, wealth and power, the heart blood
	of a queen,
The noblest of the Stuart race, the fairest earth has seen,
Lapped by a dog! Go, think of it in silence and alone,
And weigh against a grain of sand the splendors of a
	throne.
								-SELECTED.
			----------------------------------


WOMAN IN TURKEY.--The Turkish woman
is marriageble at the age of nine years, and, by
Turkish law, at that age, if married, she is
sompetent to manage her property and dispose
of one-third of her fortune.  The law allows
her to abandon her husband's house for a just
cause, and will protect her in so doing.  She
cannot be compelled to labor for the support
of her husband.  On the contrary, he is com-
pelled to support her; and it is a penal offence
to insult or ill-treat her.  Should he not fur-
nish her with funds, she is authorized to borrow
in his name and even sell his property. After
marriage she has the absolute control of her
own property, which he cannot touch.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DR. FERGUSON'S LETTER.
	COHOES, N. Y., Oct. 24, 1881.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Since I left Salt Lake City last August how
often has my heart traveled back to the city
of the Saints, beloved Zion! In carrying out
the purpose and work for which I came East,
my time has principally been spent among the
Gentiles, strangers to the truth and lovers of
pleasure more than lovers of God.  No one
but a Latter-day Saint can realize the com-
plete isolation and loneliness that one can feel
when far from the assemblies of the faithful,
even in the midst of the busy throngs that
crowd the highways of labor and commerce.
When I stepped off the cars here and received
a warm welcome from Sister Clough and
Adey, I felt that the sight of a Latter-day
Saint was as refreshing to my spirit as food
and drink to a hungry and thirsty traveler.
How blessed is the communion of Saints! How
cheerless this world would be without the fel-
lowship of kindred minds, the harmony of will
and purpose that binds together the children
of our Heavenly Father in the new and ever-
lasting covenant.
	Perhaps a brief account of my work during
the past two months will not be uninteresting
to some of your readers.  After resting a few
days in New York, and making acquaintance
with those to whom letters of introduction had
been given me, I found that I should have
considerable time on my hands before the
medical schools would open, which might be
advantageously employed in missionary work.
I accordingly made my way to Long Island,
where at Rockville Center I met with a hearty
welcome from Brother and Sister Pettit.  Sis-
ter Zina having left me, in order to visit friends
and relatives in the north, I was at liberty  to 
arrange my plans as seemed most convenient.
	I called on the families of those that had
a name and a standing in the Church.  Most
of them were very glad to talk over the
things of the Kingdom, but they are scattered
abroad like sheep without a shepherd.  While
on the Island I suffered considerably from ma-
laria.  The weather was sultry, thermometer
at 104° to 108'.
  Leaving Long Island, I weent to Hartford,
Conn., where I spent a week very pleasantly,
doing all I could by social intercourse, an-
swering questions and conversation, to pre-
sent a reasonable and correct view of our faith
and practice.  After delivering an address in
Unity Church, at the Memorial Services for
President Garfield , several persons asked me
seriously if it was true that the Mormons had
prayed for President Garfield's death, as the
papers said they did.  This is the character of
nearly all the inquiries made of me- some
question arising out of the falsehoods and mis-
statements of the newspapers.  We cannot
blame the people here for their opinion of us;
they have no means of judging  of us except
by the information they get from the news-
papers, and when the foundation is falsehood,
what must the superstructure be?  I found my
friends in Utica, N. Y., had read the recent
article in Harper's Monthly, "The Mormon
Situation," and were eager to know why we
permitted such a man to live in Utah, who
could write such a tissue of falsehood and scur-
rilous misrepresentation as they were convinced
that was, after reading the "Fruits of Mormon-
ism," whch I had lent them.  I told them the
fact that he did live there in peace, after pub-
lishing such slanders, was a complete refutation
of his whole statement.  The Mormons were
so law-abiding and long-suffering, that the
stings of such a viper excited no resentment.
We left his punishment in the hands of the
God whose work he had despised, and whose
name he had blasphemed. 
  Sister Zina D. Young and myself have just
returned from attending the Woman's Congress
at Buffalo.  It was a gathering of women
whose names stand high in the records of Phi-
lanthropy, Education, Science, and Art--poets,
preachers, writers and workers.  Among those
whose strong individuality impressed itself
most vividly upon the mind stands prominently
Mrs. Julia Ward Howe, the President of the
Association for the Advancement of Women,
whose dignity and grace, aesthetic culture and
enthusiastic philanthropy have won for her the
warmest admiration of all who come within the
scope of her influence.  Mrs. Ednah D. Cheney
was evidently a favorite with the audience, and
whenever she arose to speak a murmur of ap-
probation ran through the assembly.  Mrs.
Sara J. A. Spencer, of Washington, personally
and intellectually one of the most brilliant
women of the Convention, and Miss Mary
Eastman, the well-known platform and pulpit
lecturer, who knows more and can say it better
than one half of our average Congressman,
were the recipients of hearty applause from
the audience while discussing their favorite
topics.  Mrs. Belva A. Lockwood, the most
successful woman lawyer of the age, whose
strongly marked features clearly indicate the
indomitable energy and perseverance of her
character, with Mrs. Mary Livermore, Mrs.
H. T. Wolcott, Miss Abby May, and others,
formed a galaxy of fair and worthy women,
who would command respect in any commu-
nity.  As we avowed ourselves to be Mormons,
we were not permitted an opportunity of rep-
resenting either ourselves or those whose cause
we had come to plead.  A little bird, whose
place in ornithology has not yet been deter-
mined by naturalists, whispered to me that
the chief objection to our admission as mem-
bers of the A. A. W. was the fact that we as
a people were violating the law of the land.
When I heard this, and looked upon the wo-
men who sat before me, many of whom were
crowned with the silver lilies of seven decades,
memory involuntarily recalled the time, when
these same women in their prime proudly
planted the banner of Freedom for the negro
on the neck of the violated Fugitive Slave
Law. Every advance step in the social, re-
ligious and political progress of our race has
been taken over the debris of broken statutes
and violated laws.  Resistance to and violation
of unjust and oppressive enactments were
the birth-pangs of American Independence,
and the problem of woman's salvation and
exaltation through the principle of Celestial
Marriage will be wrought out under similar
conditions.  The "higher law" under which
the old time abolitionists achieved their great-
est victories has never been repealed- God's 
truth marches not backward, and the trumpet
of His Gospel "shall never call retreat."  The
speeches and essays were good, some of them
excellent.  They contained a plea for the work-
woman and the scholar, the factory girl and
the artist, the Indian and the prostitute, but
for the "brave daughters of the desert," the
women of the New and Everlasting Covenant,
"who make womanhood the synonym for wife"
and crown motherhood with eternal honors,
there was neither place nor voice.  I contrasted
the proceedings of this Congress of Christian
women, who opened and closed their six public
sessions without prayer or thanksgiving, with
our own meetings in Utah, where supplication
for the presence and blessing of our Father
characterizes all our assemblies, and depend-
ence upon His Spirit for wisdom and guidance
is the attitude of every speaker.
	Sisters in Zion, be not weary in well doing,
but be faithful and endure unto the end, and
ye shall receive a crown of life, which the Lord,
the righteous Judge shall give you in that day
when His judgements shall be poured out upon
the wicked and those who obey not His law.


A DISTINGUISHED WOMAN.

ZINA D. H. YOUNG.

	The subject of this pen sketch is, like many
other eminent women of the Latter-day Saints,
directly descended from the Puritans of New
England, and her grandfather, William Hunt-
ington, served three or four years in the Revo-
lutionary army. The father of Mrs. Zina D.
H. Young was also a patriot, and served in the
war of 1812. Samuel Huntington, one of the
signers of the Declaration of Independence,
was the uncle of this old revolutionary soldier;
so Sister Zina, as she is familiarly known to
our people, is a lineal representative of the no-
ble blood of the Huntingtons.
	She says: "My fathers's family is directly
descended from Simon Huntington, the Puri-
tan immigrant, who sailed for America in 1633.
He died on the sea, but left three sons and his
widow, Margaret. The church records of Rox-
bury, Mass., contain the earliest record of the
Huntington name known in New England,
and is in the handwriting of Rev. John Elliot
himself, the pastor of that ancient church.
This is the record: 'Margaret Huntington,
widow, came in 1633. Her husband died by
the way, of smallpox. She brought children
with her.'
	"Tradition says that Simon, the Puritan im-
migrant, sailed for this country to escape the
persecutions to which non-conformists were
subjected during the high-handed administra-
tions of Laud and Charles the First. Tradi-
tion also declares him to have been beyond
doubt an Englishman. The Rev. E. B. Hunt-
ington, in his genealogical memoir of the
Huntington family in this country, observes:
'The character of his immediate descendants is
perhaps in proof of both statements; they were
thoroughly English in their feelings, affinities
and language; and that they were as thor-
oughly religious, their names and official con-
nection with the early churches in this country
abundantly attest.'
	"Of one of my great-grandfathers, the
Huntington family memoir records thus: 'John,
born in Norwich, Conn., March 15, 1666; mar-
ried, December 9, 1686, Abigail, daughter of
Samuel Lathrop, who was born in May, 1667.
Her father moved to Norwich from New Lon-
don, to which place he had gone from Scituate,
Mass,, in 1648. He was the son of the Rev.
John Lathrop, who, for non-conformity, being a
preacher in the First Congregational Church
organized in London, was imprisoned for two
years, and who, on being released in 1634, came
to this country, and became the first minister
of Scituate.'
	"The Lathrops, from which my branch of
the family was direct, also married with the
other branches of the Huntingtons, making us
kin of both sides, and my sister, Presendia La-
throp Huntington, bears the family name of
generations.
	"My grandfather, Wm. Huntington, the
revolutionary soldier, married Presendia La-
throp, and was one of the first settlers in the
Black River Valley, in Northern New York.
He was a native of Tolland, Conn., but in the
year 1774 removed to New Hampshire, where
he resided until 1804, when he removed to
Watertown, Jefferson Co., New York."
	Zina Diantha Huntington was born January
31, 1821, at Watertown. Her father was Wil-
liam Huntington, her mother Zina Baker, whose
father was one of the first physicians in New
Hampshire. Her grandmother on the mother's
side was Diantha Dimock, "descended from
the noble family of Dimocks, whose representa-
tives held the hereditary knight-championship
of England; instance, Sir Edward Dymock,
Queen Elizabeth's champion."
	Both the father and mother of Sister Zina
were strict Presbyterians. Of her mother she


says- "She believed God would hear and an-
swer prayer in behalf of the sick." The gift
of healing was with her before the Gospel was
restored in its fulness. This precious gift rests
in a great degree upon her daughters, and Sis-
ter Zina has been one of the most powerfully
gifted in faith of all the women in the Church.
She seems to be specially endowed with this
sacred gift, and in the exercise of it has had
some wonderful manifestations of the power of
God in healing the sick and afflicted. She
has so distinguished herself among the sick
and the sorrowing, that she has gained with
many the appellation of "Zina, the comforter;"
her sympathies are so keen as to enter into the
feelings of those who are suffering, and so ap-
preciate their condition as to render them that
sympathy which is eminently helpful. She is
also a natural nurse; her very touch is indica-
tive of this quality, and her great tenderness
wherever there is trouble, sorrow, or pain, is
thoroughly genuine. She would have been an
eminent woman physician, had she studied the
art, but as it is, with her superior, natural abil-
ity in this direction and the experience she has
gained in her long and useful life among the
sick and distressed of all classes, she has won
distinction beyond many who have gradu-
ated in the science, and her advice and help
are often called for by physicians of skill
and learning.

To be continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 91


[Column 1]
NO BLACK FOR ME.

"No black for me, dear love, when I am dead;
	Shroud not that precious face in funeral fold,
But wear a soft, white veil upon your head,
	As fits a saintly woman growing old.

"No hlack for me! Why, when eternal day
	Has burst in glory on my dazzled sight,
And God's own angels bear my soul away,
	Should my twin-spirit bow in woc and night!

"So keep the light about you; death is light
	And life and power to pure and chastened love;
And death is only dark to doubt and sight,
	That has no visions from the world above."

	I would like to produce the whole of this
beautiful little poem, but here is sufficient to
prove that the author's mind was inspired with
the light of truth and reason. As the custom
of wearing mourning is becoming so universal
among us as a people, I enroll my name among
its opposers; and as this custom affects women
the most, 'tis to them I appeal. The women
of Utah have been called "the re-modelers of
society," and 'tis true that we aim to adopt all
improvements, so far as they are consistent
with the spirit of true progress, and we are
striving to discourage all customs that have
not a good claim upon sound reason for their
continuance. The Latter-day Saint women
have borne much in attempting to sustain
practically those principles which they knew
to be true, and now cannot we face the ridicule
of Mrs. Grundy, or the scorn of Fashion's vo-
taries, for ignoring a style of dress, grown old
in the service of a world left without the light
of revelation. We claim to have received su-
perior intelligence upon the subject of death,
and draping ourselves in the gloomy folds of
mourning apparel is not in accordance with
the glorious light and hope beyond the grave,
which is given us by the religion of Jesus
Christ. Then, should we cling to this custom
of our forefathers, so suggestive of the dark
ages in which it originated? Let us gather
the light about us; it is when sorrow enters the
heart that we should court cheering influences,
as a young mother very sensibly replied when
asked why she did not wear mourning for her
child: "Because my heart is sad enough with-
out it." It has been truly said that "that grief
is most sincere which shuns observation."

[Column 2]
There is a natural delicacy in the human heart,
especially of sensitive people, which shrinks
from exhibitions of great joy or sorrow, and
such would gladly dispense with all the para-
phernalia of mourning, but have not the cour-
age to disobey the dictates of a long-estab-
lished fashion, and yield even in matters of the
heart. Is not our sorrow as sacred as our love?
Then why display it to the public gaze? The
fact that this custom requires all to wear crape
the same length of time, proves that it does
not serve its purpose; for, while some natures
are naturally more buoyant and hopeful, and
the sooner cease to mourn, and others are more
susceptible to the consoling influence of reli-
gion, yet all must wear the outward signs of
grief, though the spirit may have regained
cheerfulness.
	While I deem it a duty to seek consolation
and happiness from all sources, to place our-
selves in circumstances where we will be under
cheerful and happifying influences, I have
mentally exclaimed, "Consistency, thou art a
jewel!" while watching black dresses, with crape
timmings, waving through the gay dance,
while the smiling faces of the wearers betokened
joy more than grief; and while watching such
persons on pleasure excursions, and at places
of public amusement, the mourning apparel
appeared to me out of season. When one's
feelings will allow the habitual mingling in
gay society, good taste and sincerity would sug-
gest a more suitable costume.
	There appear many good reasons why mourn-
ing should be discountenanced. How often does
it mislead in regard to the true feelings which
it is intended to portray? For instance, one
widow, whose matrimonial experience has been
a scene of conflict, unmarked by affection, or
respect, and, perhaps, while sueing for a divorce,
death kindly releases her before the law; her
neighbor may be also separated from her hus-
band, a congenial, affectionate partner; both
wear mourning, but which is the mourner?
The broken-hearted mother who lays her dear-
est treasure in the grave, and the woman who
cannot grieve when a rich relative, for whom
she has little or no regard, dies and leaves her
money—these walk side by side in similar at-
tire, which is to signify that both are mourners,
while one is far from being such. Am I ex-
travagant? We know such things occur daily.
	Again, the expense and inconvenience of the
custom is another reason for its becoming ob-
solete. Perchance the support of a family is
taken away; to procure mourning they must
either incur debt, or be considered lacking in
respect for the dead. Extra and unnecessary
expenses are thus laid npon the widow's shoul-
ders when she is least able to meet them—ex-
penses which often become an injustice to chil-
dren; for the expenditure for the mourning
outfit is in many instances sufficient to pay for
a year's school tuition for a family. Can the
wife or daughter show respect for the dead by
robing themselves in the deepest mourning,
while the name of the deceased is whispered
hopelessly among his creditors?
	Above all things, don't crush the natural
care-free cheerfulness of children between the
folds of mourning; sad realities will come soon
enough to check their fountain of happiness,
let it flow while it will without restraint. It
may require some effort for parents to abandon
the mourning costume when they have been
taught from childhood to regard it as a neces-
sity in bereavement, but we have come out of
Babylon to rear our children in the light of
direct revelation, and let us keep their minds
free from all traditions and prejudices which
cannot be sustained in harmony with the spirit
of our religion. I know that many noble,
brave women have mourned their dead with
the most acute sense of loss, cherishing their
memory with reverence and affection, while
they wore no outward symbol of the grief

[Column 3]
within. And can any one honor them less for
possessing a delicacy of feeling which could
not be overcome by that monarch, Fashion,
who commands the worship of millions of the
thoughtless, who so willingly lay their consci-
encious scruples, their individvality and power
of self-government before the powerful throne?
	Convenience would suggest retaining the only
part of the mourning apparel of any utility,
the veil, which need not necessarily be black,
nor worn fluttering down the BACK, as the pre-
sent style demands.
	As for ornaments, who ever saw black flow-
ers? Here nature is outraged instead of imi-
tated, and in my opinion to wear them is an
insult to the lovely-hued flowery kingdom, none
of which were ever known to turn perfectly
black, even on the most solemn occasion—the
death of their own kindred.
	Let me here pay a tribute of thanks to one
of our leading ladies, who first appealed to my
reason and aroused thought on this subject.
When but a little girl I listened to her request
in a meeting of the sisters, which was: "Please
let the drapery of my funeral be WHITE; when
my worn and weary spirit has entered its rest,
there will be no occasion to mourn." With
her I say, "No black for me."
								LELIA.
	September 18, 1881.


MUSIC.
	What art so speaks to the soul as music?
All love music; it is enshrined in our nature.
Not the cultivated and refined alone, but also
the poor and lowly, all are alike touched by its
soothing powers.  It has a place in our higher
nature, and makes us purer and better by its
presence.  It inspires and elevates, has the
power to make us both sad and cheerful, and
while listening to it all evil thoughts leave us,
and we think only of the pure and beautiful.
It gives us new life, speaks to us of love, friend-
ship, joy, sorrow, rage and despair, all in its
own sweet, emotional language.  It brings re-
finement with it, where it is truly appreciated.
But although we all love music, still we are
not all destined to become musicians, for but
few, comparatively speaking, have the genius.
It is a great mistake with the parents that every
girl must learn to play the piano and sing, for
every  girl is not capable of this, any more than
every girl can become an artist or writer.  'Tis
true we can all learn to go over a few notes
mechanically, but few indeed have the real
soul of music within them.  Few, when they
play, stop to think what tale the author in-
tended to tell; if, by the title, they suppose the
piece to be gay, 'tis rattled off as quickly as
possible,  without giving the slightest thought,
supposing rapid motion to be all that is neces-
sary; but if, from the title, they suppose it to
be sad, it is played so slowly that instead of
being moved to tears, we are simply tired.
	Each piece of music in the author's mind
tells a little tale of its own, just as much as
though it were written in words.  But music
has a language of its own, and must be rightly
interpreted.  Sometimes it is sad, and some-
times cheerful, but like our lives, not all joy
and not all sorrow; here a sunbeam darts over
the piece, then a cloud obscures it.  now a gleam
of hope, and then despair; a dream of love
or sorrow, a reverie - and all should be told as
forcibly by the performer as poets tell their
emotions in beautiful words.  Seeking to play,
or sing, so as to bring out the true soul of the
piece, is the only way to be a successful artist.
We love to hear those most, who play or sing
with most expression, and feel deeply what
they seek to make others feel.
						BEATRICE.


SPAIN has decided to release all her political
prisoners.


92	﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY. NOVEMBER 15, 1881.


[Column 1]
WOMAN SUFFRAGE IN UTAH.

"The sages say, Dame Truth delights to dwell,—
Strange mansion!—In the bottom of a well.
Questions are, then, the windlass and the rope
That pull the grave old gentlewoman up."

	In an article republished in Boston, Mass., by
the Woman's Journal, of October 22nd, (a very
ably edited suffrage paper, and a popular advo-
cate of measures to advance the cause of politi-
cal equality for men and women,) there are
many egregieus errors made in regard to woman
suffroge in Utah. The WOMAN'S EXPONENT has
been invited to refute them, and we willingly
reply to the Journal. We heartily thank
Mr. Blackwell for the few impartial
words of comment upon the article in question.
	The unknown writer says: "The ballot to
Mormon women in Utah is only another brand
of shame upon their brows." We cannot under-
take to explain the real meaning of the senti-
ment so strongly expressed by the writer. How-
ever, we may be permitted to give our idea of
the potency of the ballot in the hands of Mor-
mon women. It cannot but be apparent to any
logical reasoner, that the women of Utah hold
their political and social destiny largely in their
own hands by means of the franchise; and not-
withstanding the insinuations as to their want
of judgement in exercising this privilege,
they will not be blackguarded into
voting for men to hold office who
have so little respect for honorable wives,
mothers and daughters as to stigmatize them
with names too vile for utterance. Mormon
women, as a class, are eminently qualified to
vote intelligently, that is, to vote for the best
men, and those whom they think most thor-
oughly capable of filling positions of honor and
trust in the interests of the whole people. They
have no disposition whatever to vote for men
who spend their salaries in cigars and whiskey
and other degrading vices, and who would
destroy the very institutions they have
been engaged in founding. Not only
so, but they have learned by bitter expe-
rience what unprincipled rulers will
do, when they have the power. There may
be and possibly are, women here who are igno-
rant of the power vested in the ballot, and who
do not comprehend the right of suffrage proper-
ly; it would be strange indeed if there were not,
as it is a new feature in woman's career; but in
this respect it is only an offset, for there are men,
and men have been citizens of the Republic for
a century and more, who have no true apprecia-
tion of the ballot and who sell their votes to the
highest bidder.
	Ever since the franchise was granted to the
women of Utah, they have labored, through the
systematic organizations that exist throughout
the Territory, to educate both the women and
children of the Territory, to a proper under-
standing of the principles, and executive power

[Column 2]
of the government of the country, and a just
realization of the importance of political equal-
ity. Mormon women not only go to
the polls and vote, but they attend political,
Primary and school meetings in their several
respective districts, and the most perfect liberty
is accorded them for the expression of their
opinions upon subjects connected with the
nominations to be made, or of their views in
securing the most excellent methods of govern-
ment. In almost every district women are
chosen as delegates to the county conventions,
and when assembled in the capacity of
a convention take an active part
in the proceedings, and some are always nomi-
nated upon the several committees that are
called to act in the interest of the whole. Wo-
men also form a part of the Territorial and
County Central Committees. Owing to the un-
fortunately adverse views of the late Governors
of Utah upon woman suffrage, the women of
Utah are not yet entitled to hold any office of
emolument or trust within the gift of the peo-
ple. When Utah has a Governor liberal enough
towards women to sign the bill passed by the
Legislature, to remove the only difficulty now
in the way of their holding office, then there
will be an opportunity to see what the suffrage
has done towards qualifying women to fill
important positions in the Territory, that is if
the people should nominate and cast a ma-
jority of votes for a woman.
	Intelligent, consistent women will naturally
vote for those, who maintain the institutions
which they believe to be for the highest eleva-
tion of the human race. Men who practically
sustain places which degrade and lead astray the
young, ignorant and unwary, must not expect
virtuous, highminded women to vote for them
to fill any office, which would add to their influ-
ence or power. Were they to do this, they
would be aiding in the destruction of the very
government, it is their imperative duty to main-
tain. Mormon women vote for their own highest
interest, and the men who they believe will
best subserve that interest. Would they not be
lacking in wisdom to vote for men who perse-
cute and denounce them, and who are continu-
ally urging upon Congress the necessity of se-
vere measures in dealing with the Mormons,
and calling upon priests and people everywhere
to come to their aid and suppress Mormon insti-
tutions.
	The secret ballot in Utah, of which all may
not be aware, gives every individual full liberty
to vote as he or she pleases, without the know-
ledge of another, so that any undue authority or
compulsion cannot possibly be exercised in
the actual casting of votes.
	As to whether Mormon women are independ-
ent in thought, one only needs to make them-
selves acquainted with facts. They not
only think for themselves, but they are fast be-
coming educated in the intelligent expression of
the views they hold on all subjects.
	The development of mind is strengthened by
expression and interchange of ideas, and through
the complete system of organization which ex-
tends to the most remote towns and villages of
Utah, there is a broad field of expansion for the
capabilities of women. All industrial occupa-
tions are open to woman alike with man.
	In regard to the right of dower, to which the
article alluded to refers, it is only fair to state
that women in Utah are citizens equally with
men; they stand precisely in the same position
as regards property rights, as well as taxes, which
removes the necessity of the right of dower.
Women here have the homestead privilege;
whether married or single they can hold property
in their own name, and are required to pay taxes
in the same proportion as men; they can buy or

[Column 3]
sell and transact business as they like. That is
the best law which provides for the maintenance
of all citizens, instead of favoring a few. The
right of dower, as it is called, would deprive the
plural wife of any privilege in sharing the prop-
erty of her husband, and would debar her chil-
dren from a share of the family estate. And
while the law as it stands is better for all, it is
equally good for the single, individual wife.
This law was approved February 16, 1872, and
the bill must have been signed by the Governor
of the Territory, to make it valid, which Gover-
nor was verily not a Mormon, nor in favor of
Mormon principles. We publish in full the act.

AN ACT CONCERNING THE PROPERTY RIGHTS
OF MARRIED PERSONS.

	"SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the Governor and
Legislative Assembly of Utah: That all prop-
erty owned by either spouse before marriage, and
that acquired afterward by gift, bequest, devise
or descent, with the rents, issues and profits
thereof, is the separate property of that spouse
by whom the same is so owned or acquired, and
separate property owned or acquired as specified
above, may be held, managed, controlled, trans-
ferred and in any manner disposed of by the
spouse so owning or acquiring it, without any
limitation or restriction by reason of marriage.
	SEC. 2. "Either spouse may sue or be sued,
plead or be impleaded, or defend and be defended
at law.
	"SEC. 3. No right of dower shall exist or be
allowed in this Territory."
	The "Woman's Journal," or any other paper
or persons, can judge for themselves in regard to
the justice of this law. We remember when a
girl in the old Bay State of hearing our mother,
who by the bye was a strong-minded woman,
grumbling about the "right of dower;" she con-
sidered the law very lame indeed in this respect.
So if some one grumbles about the law in Utah,
it is no more than people do elsewhere.
	In regard to misrepresentations and misstate-
ments, it would be useless to attempt to contra-
dict all that people say against the Mormons.
We are glad of an opportunity, however, to pre-
sent the facts in regard to the ballot in Utah,
which is perfectly consistent with the genius of
Mormonism, for Mormon women have always
voted upon all religious questions. It is a fact
that cannot be denied that the Mormons are the
old settlers here; Mormon women have the suf-
frage and they exercise it in the fear of God, as a
gift from Him under the impulse of the age in
the progress of reform.


HERE AND THERE.
 On Monday Nov. 7, in company with Sisters
E. R. S. Smith, E. Howard, E. S. Taylor and
Louie Felt we left this city to visit Payson and
other places in Utah County. At Provo we
were joined by Ma Smoot, as she is affectionate-
ly called, the President of Relief Societies in
Utah Stake. We arrived at Payson and spent a
pleasant evening at the hospitable home of
Brother and Sister Douglas. On Tuesday morn-
ing the Relief Society assembled in the meeting
house, Mrs. B. J. Simons presiding. After
singing, prayer and reading of minutes, and a
few remarks by Mrs. Simons, Ma Smoot deliv-
ered an eloquent address upon the develop-
ment and advancement of woman, and plu-
ral marriage, expressed her belief that
these organizations made women bet-
ter mothers, wives and citizens; but
her strong point is Celestial Marriage, upon
which she is theoretically and practically quali-
fied to speak. Sister Eliza touched upon many
topics interestingly and most earnestly, indeed
we have never heard her speak better or more


fervently. Sisters E. Howard, E. B. Taylor, and
others made many excellent remarks upon edu-
cation, literature and the careful training of the
young. Bishop Tanner and Counselor Lant ex-
pressed their desire that the people would put in
practice the good advice which had been given
by the sisters.
	In the afternoon of the same day, the four
Primary Associations of Payson held a conjoint
meeting, over which Sister E. R. S. Smith pre-
sided. The exercises were very entertaining,
and the children, about two hundred and
fifty  in number, all seemed intensely
interested. After the close of the meeting,
the ladies returned to the residence of Mrs.
Douglas where they were sweetly [-]erenaded by
about one hundred little girls. It was an affect-
ing scene and baffles all description.
	The same evening the Y. L. M. I. A. held a
meeting at which Miss Ida Coombs presided.
Tha house was crowded to overflowing. An
interesting feature of the meeting was the read-
ing by the secretary of the manuscript paper
which is edited by the Association entitled “The
Young Lady's Journal.” It is now in the sixth
volume, and is very creditable indeed. We re-
commend this course to all associations, as one
of the best methods for improvment. Mrs. E. S.
Taylor spoke earnestly upon many subjects con-
nected with the advancement of the young, the
reading of good books, the necessity of testi-
mony to all Latter-day Saints and
other subjects of vital importance to those who
expect to do the great work devolving upon the
women of the future. Sisters E. Howard, E. B.
Wells, Louie Felt, E. R. S. Smith and M. T.
Smoot each addressed the audience for a short
time, giving much good counsel and instruction.
Wednesday morning, Sisters Smoot, Howard
and Taylor took the train, the two former for
Provo, Sister Taylor returning home to the city.
The other Sisters rode over to Spanish Fork, and
met with the Relief Society in the afternoon.
Mrs. Mary Ferguson presiding. In the evening
there was a meeting of the Y. L. M. I. A., nu-
merously attended by both sexes, Mrs. Mary J.
Morrison presiding.
	Stirring appeals were made to the young peo-
ple by Sister Eliza and the ladies who accom-
panied her. The young ladies of Spanish Fork
also read a paper called “Young Ladies’ Herald
of Union.” It was very interesting, and we
trust they will continue to improve.
	Thursday, at 11 o'clock, there was a meeting
of the Primary Association, which numbers
nearly 300 children; Miss Mary Ann McLean
presiding. Ater some exercises by the chil-
dren, Sister Eliza, by request of the Bishop,
divided the children into two organizations, with
a president over each, all to be under the presi-
dency of Miss McLean, who has been most
faithful in training them, and to whom the chil-
dren are fondly attached.
	A little change was also made in the Young
Ladies’ Association. They had six Counselors
and a Superintendent. Four of  these Counsel-
ors and the Superintendent were honorably re-
leased from acting; as according to the present
System of organization, which it is necessary
should be uniform, only two counselors are con-
sidered advisable.
	Thursday evening Sister Eliza and party took
the train for Santaquin. Arriving there drove
direct to the meeting house, which
was well filled with brethren and sisters.
It was the meeting of the Y. L. M. I. A., Miss
Mary Ann Openshaw presiding. The minutes 
were excellent and well rendered. Sister Eliza
and the other Sisters addressed the meeting.
Bishop Halladay and Brother Openshaw each
made a few remarks, speaking in terms of praise
of the labors and instructions of the sisters.
	We were all most cordially welcomed to San-
taquin and entertained at the residence of Bro-
ther Stickney, who being a Yankee was delighted
to find his guests all Yankees too. Friday morn-
ing met with the Relief Society, Mrs. E. J.
Stickney presiding. A very good meeting; the
spirit of the Lord resting in great abundance
upon the speakers. Before time to commence
the meeting of the Primary Association in the
afternoon, the children met with their president
and came marching down two by two to escort
the sisters to the meeting house. It was a very
pretty sight indeed.
The meeting was presided over by Miss Zella
Holliday. The exercises were all well rendered
and the children, about 150 in number, kept the
most excellent order. These children are pre-
paring for a fair and exhibition, which is sure to
be a success. The children of Payson held a
fair on Saturday, the 12th inst.
	On Saturday morning we returned home.
Sisters Eliza R. S. S. and Louie Felt were to go-
to Goshen the same day. There are many
other interesting items connected with this tour
that will probably appear in the next issue of
the Exponent.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HOME AFFAIRS.

 PRESIDENT George Q."Cannon, wife and niece,
Miss Mina Cannon, returned from the southern
part of the Territory on Sunday morning train.
THE last company of emigrants for this season
arrived on Thursday, the 10th inst. well, and
having had a safe and prosperous journey.
PRES. Taylor and party are all enjoying the
best of health, and are doing much good among
the people wherever they travel. They are pro-
bably at Rockville to-day, on their return trip.
SISTERS M. Isabella Horne and E. Howard
have been attending the Sisters’ Conference of
Wasatch Stake, which was held at Heber City
on Friday, the 11th inst. They have not yet re-
turned home.	
 THE President of the Grain Committee ur-
geently requests full reports as soon as possible
from all the different localities where grain is
being stored for Zion; and if they have grana-
ries, what dimensions and material, and at what 
cost they have been built. Direct to Mrs. E. B.
Wells, Salt Lake City, Utah.
THE prize essay affair, about which consider-
able curiosity has been manifested of late, has
at last been settled, Mr. R. W. Sloan, of the “Salt
Lake Herald,” being the lucky winner. The
prize essay on “Utah and her Resources,” is
published in full in the Salt Lake Herald of
Sunday, Nov. 6, and is certainly a very excellent
one. We sincerely congratulate our young friend,
upon his success, and are very glad the prize was 
won by one of the Mormon boys, raised and
educated in Utah; in fact, Mr. Sloan is almost
entirely self-educated, having had very little op-
portunity to attend school, as he has been from
childhood employed in the “Herald” Office in
this city. The essay comprises under its several
sub-headings, Agriculture, Horticulture, Stock-
raising, Mining, Manufactures, Attractions, and
it will bear reading more than once. Two of
the other essays are to be published, and perhaps
all of them may be; no doubt they are all good.
The prize awarded was a check for fifty dollars,
given by Mr. Meears.


FATAL ACCIDENT.

	About 11 o'clock on Nov. 3, Maggie Rebecca,
daughter of George and Jane S. Coleman, of
Escalante, Iron Co., fell, at that place, from a
wagon loaded with adobies and being driven by


the father. The girl was run over by one of the
hind wheels, crushing the life right out of her.
All was done that could be to restore vitality,
but to no effect—the spirit had fled. About a
month previous to her death, the child fell into
the well and came near being drowned. Little
Maggie was three years old the 5th Of October.
Being her mother's youngest and a fine, promis-
ing child, she was the joy and sunshine of her
home.’ We deeply sympathize with our dear
and valued friends, the parents and family, in
this sudden and sorrowful bereavement.
								LULA.


OBITUARY.
	DIED, at Bellevue, Kane Co., September 28,
1881, of consumption, Christine Sylvester, wife
of Joshua W. Sylvester, Bishop of Elsinore,
Sevier Co., while on a visit at the house of her
father-in-law, Mr. James Sylvester. Deceased
was a native of Mygdal, Hjorring, Denmark,
born April 19, 1847; baptized in the year 1855,
and emigrated to Utah in 1862. She was Presi-
dent of the Relief Society of Elsinore, and was
firm in the belief and practice of the principles
of the Everlasting Gospel. She was a true and
loving wife, a kind and affectionate mother, and
was beloved and respected by all those who,
through duty and circumstances, had made her
acquaintance.  She leaves a husband and seven
children and a large circle of friends to mourn
her loss.
			LENA HANSON, Sec'y R.S.


ATTENTION, SECRETARIES!

	The Secretaries of Relief Societies in Salt
Lake Stake are urgently requested to send in
their semi-annual reports by the 5th of March,
as it is impossible for the Stake Secretary to
make a correct report unless she receives the re-
port from each Society in due time.
				M. ISABELLA HORNE, Prest.
				ELIZABETH HOWARD, Sec'y.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	Although the Lord had revealed the princi-
ple of Celestial Marriage to Joseph Smith in
an early day, the astounding revelation and
command to proclaim it was not given until
after the Saints had settled in Nauvoo. Jo-
seph put off the dreaded day as long as he
dared. I recollect on a certain Sabbath, pre-
vious to the Apostles' return from Europe, of
hearing my mother and others expressing their
wonder and astonishment at what they had
heard uttered that day by the Prophet, upon
the restoration of all things, etc; His wife as
well as others was quite excited over it. See-
ing the effect that his sermon had upon his
hearers in the afternoon, he consoled them by
saying that the time which he had spoken of
might be further off than he had viewed it; at
all events the Lord would help them and carry
them safely through it, if they were faithful.
	No wonder that this duty weighed so heav-
ily upon his mind, nor that he shouId mani-
fest such anxiety to again behold his breth-
ren, the Apostles, to deliver into their hands
the keys of the kingdom. The great joy
and affection which he manifested at once
more meeting and clasping them by the hand
proved the confidence which he felt in them as
men of God. Those were days of peril, and
the tried and faithful few were I believe, among
the master spirits appointed, or reserved, by the
Almighty to come forth in the day in which
He began to restore the ancient order of His
kingdom, to prepare for the winding up scene.


The humiliation of the Saints only increased
their union. Abuse never injured a cause, and
persecution has never stopped the progress of
this work, but only added fuel to the flame and
attracted the attention of the world, and caused
thousands to join the standard of truth. As
to our religious principles, we have nothing to
disguise, but on the contrary wish them to be
known, that they may be judged of correctly.
   The Latter-day Saints have always been ac-
cused by the world of denying the Old Bible
and substituting a new one, which they were
pleased to call "Joe Smith's Golden Bible." I
will here mention one circumstance: a cousin
who lately paid me a visit from the States,
seemed very much surprised at seeing upon my
table the old family Bible, which happened to
be her Uncle Heber's. I merely speak of this
to show how little the Gentile world know
about us, or can understand the faith and doc-
trines of the people whom they are so ready to
judge.
	Notwithstanding the life of the Prophet was
sought and his enemies were ready to cut him
off, yet he always had some warm-hearted
friends who plead his cause.  The following
extract from a letter written by James Arling-
ton Bennett to the N.Y. Herald, dated Ar-
lington House N.Y., Oct. 16, 1842, concern-
ing the Mormons, I am sure will be read with
interest by the Saints. His words were pro-
phetic:
  "Why should I not be Joseph Smith's friend?
He has done nothing to injure me, nor do I be-
lieve he has done anything to injure ex-Gover-
nor Boggs, of Missouri. The Governor, no
doubt, under strong feelings may have thought
and believed that Smith had preconcerted the
plan for his assassination, but there is no legal
evidence whatever of that fact, none by which
an unprejudiced jury would convict any man;
yet to send this man into Missouri, under the
present requisition, would be an act of great
injustice, as his ruin would be certain. How
could any man, against whom there is a bitter
religious prejudice, escape ruin, being in the
circumstances of Joseph Smith	*	*	*
Look at the history of past ages--see the force
of fanaticism and bigotry in bringing to the
stake some of the best of men; and in all
these cases the persecutors had their pretexts,
as well as in the case of the Mormon chief.	*
*	*	Smith, I conceive, has just as good a
right to establish a church, if he can do it, as
Luther, Calvin, Wesley, Fox, or even King
Henry the Eighth. All these chiefs in religion
had their opponents, and their people their
persecutors.  *    *  Just so it will be with the
Mormons.  They may kill one prophet, and
confine in chains half his followers, but another
will take his place, and the Mormons will still
go ahead.
   "One of their Elders said to me, when con-
versing on this subject, that they were like a
mustard plant -- if you don't disturb it the
seed will fall and multiply; and if you kick it
about you only give the seed more soil, and it
will multiply the more.'
   "Gen. J.C. Bennett has stated that, to con-
quer the Mormon Legion it would require five
to one against them, all things taken into con-
sideration, and that they will die to a man
sooner than give up their Prophet.  Now, is
the arrest of this man worth such a sacrifice
of life as must necessarily follow an open war
with his people? The loss of from one to three
thousand lives will no doubt follow in the at-
tempt to accomplish an object not in the end
worth a button.
   "Persecute them, and you are sure to multi-
ply them.  This is fully proved since the Mis-
souri persecution, as, since that affair they have
increased one hundred fold. It is the best
policy, both of Missouri and Illinois, to let
them alone; for if they are driven farther
west, they may set up an independent govern-
ment, under which they can worship the Al-
mighty as may suit their taste. Indeed, I
would recommend to the Prophet to pull up
stakes and take possession of the Oregon Ter-
ritory in his own right, and establish an inde-
pendent empire. In one hundred years from
this time no nation on earth could conquer such
a people. Let not the history of David be for-
gotten.
   "If the Prophet Joseph would do this, mil-
lions would flock to his standard and join his
cause. He could then make his own laws by
the voice of revelation, and have them executed
like the act of one man.
   "With respect to myself, I would just repeat
that I am the Prophet's friend, and a friend of
his people, merely from sympathy, as my arm
has ever been lifted on the side of the perse-
cuted and oppressed.    *   *    By inserting this
communication, it is presumed that no one will
hold the Herald responsible for the sentiments
it contains; yet I have no doubt that there are
thousands of independent, liberal-minded men
in this country who think as I do.
   "Neither the Mormon Prophet nor his people
can add anything to my fortune or reputation.
I expect nothing from them; they are a poor
and industrious people, and have nothing to
give.  I am influenced in my conduct towards
them by a spirit of benevolence and mercy,
and hope the Governor and State of Illinois
will act in like manner.  It is true, I was com-
missioned in  their Legion, through the instru-
mentality of their enemy, Gen. J.C. Bennet--
an act entirely of their own, without my
agency; but I was as much their friend before
as since. The Missouri persecution fixed my
attention and commiseration on the people.
   "It must be recollected, too, that the Mormon
Prophet and his people are the most ardent
friends and promoters of literature and science.
These are elementary principles in their social
system; and this, certainly, is contrary to every
thing like despotism. I hope, therefore, *  *
that ex-Governor Boggs will withdraw his de-
mand for the Prophet, and let these poor peo-
ple rest in peace. Both he and Governor Car-
lin will feel much more at peace with them-
selves by quashing the whole proceeding."
   The following historical incident of the
Prophet's life, which I distinctly remember,
cannot fail to be of interest to many, particu-
larly the ones who witnessed the scene:
    "Saturday, April 7, 1842, the Nauvoo Legion
was on parade, by virtue of an order of the
25th of January, 1842, and was reviewed by
Lieutenant-General Joseph Smith, who com-
manded through the day. * *  The weather
was very fine. *  *  * In the afternoon the
Legion was divided into cohorts, and fought
an animated sham battle.  At the close of the
parade Gen. Smith delivered a most animating
and appropriate address, in which he remarked
that his soul was never better satisfied than on
this occasion.'  It will be remembered that on
that day Gen. John C. Bennett betrayed his
designs upon the life of the Prophet, by re-
questing him repeatedly to take part in the
sham battle, and even urging him to command
the first cohort in person, without his staff.
   Dr. Bennett's treachery, it seems, was made
known to Joseph by the Spirit, for he said: "If
General Bennett's true feelings towards me are
not made manifest to the world in a very short
time, then it may be possible that the gentle
breathings of that spirit, which whispered me
on parade that there was mischief concealed
in that sham battle, were false.  'Let John C. Ben-
nett answer at the day of judgment--Why did
you request me to command one of the cohorts,
and also to take my position without my staff,
during the sham battle on the 7th of April,
1842, where my life might have been the for-
feit, and no man have known who did the
deed?"
	Shortly after this circumstance, the true
feelings of John C. Bennett were made mani-
fest to the world, as the Prophet had predicted.
According to Joseph's own words, his time had
not yet come; for said he, "I understand my
mission. *  * God Almighty is my shield;
* * I shall not be sacrificed until my time
comes; then I shall be offered freely."
   Dr. John C. Bennett was expelled from the
Church in the following July for unvirtuous
conduct. It was well known that he was a
notorious hypocrite, and by his artful cunning,
under the cloak of religion, deceived and led
captive artless and unwary women.*
   *It should be explained to the reader that James Al-
lington Bennett and Dr. John C. Bennett were not in
the least related, except they bore the same name.
			To be continued.


94	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

	Minutes of a special meeting of the Manti
R.S. and Y.L.M.I.A., held Sept. 23, 1881,
Mrs. R. Wareham presiding. Singing, "Once,
more we come before our God," &c. Prayer
by Elder James Wareham. Singing. Present
on the stand, Prest. M. A. Hyde and Coun-
selors, of Sanpete Stake Relief Society; also
Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith and Sister E.B.
Wells, of Salt Lake City, and Sister Amelia
H. Goldsbrough, of Nephi, President of the
Relief Society of Juab Stake.
	Sister Hyde was the first speaker; was
pleased to have the privilege of again meeting
with the sisters of Manti; also felt thankful for
the presence of our visiting sisters, and hoped
we were prepared to receive their instructions.
	Sister Wells then addressed the meeting.
Said it is the desire of each and every one of
us to do good as opportunity offers, to minister
to the sick and provide for the poor and needy;
we should not sit and hold our hands like the
fashionable women of the world, when there
are Temples to be erected, and it is highly
necessary that we should assist in their erec-
tion, if we expect to enjoy the privilege of per-
forming a work for ourselves and our dead
after their completion. Spoke very enconrag-
ingly of the labors of the sisters of Sanpete,
and also of the Lamanite sisters of Thistle
Valley. Referred to the great good which had
been accomplished by the Relief Societies, and
exhorted the mothers in regard to the proper
training of their children. Advised the sisters
always to avail themselves of the privilege con-
ferred by the elective franchise; hoped all who
were not legal voters would see the necessity
of becoming so at once. She also advised them
to inform themselves, so as to be able to vote
intelligently.
	Sister Snow Smith felt happy to meet with
the sisters of Manti, and felt thankful to see
so many of the brethren present, as she knew
that they were equally interested with us in
forwarding the work. She wished them to
know how the sisters spent their time in their
meetings, and that they had no time to be
faultfinding and gossiping, of which they were
sometimes accused. Said we should find much
more happiness in improving ourselves and oc-
cupying our time to advantage, than if we
took the opposite course. We are called upon
to make silk, to store grain, to assist the needy
and care for the sick, all of which is outside of
our household duties. We can do all of these
things if we will seek unto the Lord for
strength. Exhorted the sisters to rise and bear
testimony when occasion required it, and they
would be blessed accordingly. We should go
forward and not backward, and our reward
will be in proportion to our works. Urged


[Column 1]
the sisters to be energetic in every worthy en-
terprise. God has done His part, and He now
expects us to do ours, if we expect to realize
the blessings promised to the faithful in the
eternal worlds. Said it was the duty of the
sisters to wash and anoint the sick when re-
quested, and that they should do it with hum-
ble and prayerful hearts. The speaker advised
all the members of the Relief Society, and also
the members of the Young Ladies' Association
to take shares in the Sanpete Factory now in
contemplation. Urged the sisters to be punc-
tual in attending elections, and also to encour-
age their children to attend the meetings of
the Primary Associations, and to strive to keep
out evil influences. Closed by invoking the
blessing of Heaven on the congregation.
	Sister Goldsbrough made a few encouraging
and interesting remarks. Advised the sisters
to learn the laws of our Father in Heaven
and try to keep them.
	Prest. Peterson spoke of the prospective fac-
tory, and encouraged the sisters to take shares,
and spoke of the blessings which would arise
from it, in a temporal point of view. The
speaker considered it one step in the right di-
rection toward becoming a self-sustaining peo-
ple. Choir sang, "My home is there," &c.
Benediction by Bishop Jensen.
			S. A. PARSONS, Acting Sec'y.

SANEPETE.

	The Qurterly Conference of the Relief So-
cieties of Sanpete Stake was held at Moroni,
Sept. 16, 1881, President Mary A. P. Hyde
presiding. Devotional exercises were offered
in the usual way. On the stand were Prest.
Canute Peterson, the Bishop of Moroni and
several Bishops from the adjacent settlements,
visiting sisters, Prest. E. R. Snow Smith and
E. B. Wells, from Salt Lake City, and Amelia
H. Goldsbrough, of Nephi, and the local presi-
dency of the R. S. of this Stake. The reports
were read, showing how much good had been
done by the sisters of this Stake in supplying
the wants of the needy, and various charitable
purposes; also a liberal donation to the factory.
	President Hyde made a few remarks, ex-
pressing her gratification at having President
E. R. Smith and E. B. Wells present after so
long an absence, and her delight in hearkening
to and receiving the counsel and instruction
which might be given on the present occasion.
	Sister Eliza then addressed the assembly:
said she was much pleased to see so many
present, and that the brethren had favored us
with their presence, as she always felt stronger
when the brethren were present. Was well
pleased with the reports of the Stake; thought
the societies of Sanpete County were ahead of
all the Relief Societies in the Territory; that
the poor and sick were well cared for, which is
the first thing we should consider, and that
these societies were organized for the purpose
of helping the Bishops in attending to these
duties. Dwelt much upon the training of
children and duties of parents.
	Sister Jane Black, commonly known as
"Mother Black," who has reached the great
age of four score years, made a few remarks
on the subject of Celestial Marriage.
	Sister Wells addressed the sisters, urging
upon their minds the necessity of being ener-
getic in seri-culture and storing of grain. Re-
ferred to the signs of the times and how fast
the prophecies are being fulfilled.
	Prest. Peterson heartily endorsed all that
had been done and said, and urged the sisters
to press forward as they had done; was much
surprised at what had really been accomplished.
	Prest. M. A. Hyde thanked the sisters for
their kindness, and hoped they would be en-
abled to visit us many times yet. A number
of others spoke, expressing their willingness to
do whatever was required of them, and their

[Column 2]
satisfaction in listening to the remarks which
had been made. Conference closed by singing
"Now let us rejoice," congregation joining in.
Benediction. Conference adjourned for three
months.
			FANNY KOFFORD, Sec'y R. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 95


PRIMARY FAIR.

	The Springville Primary Fair was held in
Union Hall, October 29, 1881, commencing at
10 o'clock a. m. Singing by the children,
"When Jesus dwelt on the shores of time."
Prayer by the chaplain, George Mainwaring.
Singing, "Open the door for the children."
D. C. Johnson then delivered a brief, but in-
teresting address; was pleased to see so many
things, the work of the children. Exhorted
all to improve every privilege within their
reach and learn to be industrious. The exhi-
bition was then declared open, and the visitors
were invited to view the children's work, of
which there was quite a variety; many and va-
ried were the articles made by the little folks.
The boys' work was very creditable; they had
made several kinds of wagons, hay-racks, lad-
ders, rakes, spades, forks, etc., etc., also a very
nice book-shelf, a comb-case and soap-dish, and
many other useful articles, made by boys under
fourteen years; also a variety of vegetables
which they had raised to exhibit. The little
girls' work was useful and ornamental; they
had a variety of mottoes worked on cardboard,
also quite an assortment of pincushions, mats,
tidies, quilts and embroidery, a pair of slippers
worked by a little girl, the names and ages of
the Twelve Apostles in needlework, the Lord's
Prayer printed by a little girl, wax flowers,
hair flowers, wool flowers, wreaths made from
autumn leaves, baby shoes in crochet work,
also socks and laces; knitted and fancy baskets
of almost every kind, roast chicken; bread,
butter, frosted cakes, pies, etc., all the work of
the little girls. A quilt was made by the As-
sociations, to be donated to the Temple.
	The hall was filled with visitors all day and
evening, until eight o'clock, when the exhibi-
tion was closed. Benediction by Richard Bird.


[Column 1]
JOKERS AND JOKING.

	This is not intended to be a funny article, as
one might infer by the title. It is designed to
be a serious aspect of what is almost univer-
sally conceded to be a humorous theme. Dif-
ferent people have different ways of amusing
themselves. A similarity of tastes, or a con-
geniality of spirits, begets a similarity of en-
joyment. Thus a refined inhabitant of the
Fiji Islands finds his ideal bliss in picking the
bones of some fellow cannibal who has been
captured in war, and who, by virtue of being
captured, becomes a legitimate basis of a can-
nibalistic banquet. If there be in the mind of
this elevated specimen of humanity an enjoy-
ment more beatific, it is when the Fiji Island-
ers' providence puts in his way some unwary,
but rotund and corpulent missionary, whose
well-filled limbs sizzling over a fire fill the air
with music that delights the cannibalistic ears,
and fills the air with an odor grateful to his
enlarged and distended olfactories. It was a
custom some years ago—and may be yet—to
furnish Parisian children of wealth with small
feathered biped, in order that these innocent
darlings—bless their souls!—might find pure
and heavenly enjoyment in pulling the poor
and harmless little birds to pieces. In the
palmy days of Rome, it was the delight of the
refined classes, as well as of the populace, to
witness mortal combats between gladiators, or
to see unarmed Christians battle with and be
torn to pieces by ferocious wild beasts; and
rare indeed were the instances in which the

[Column 2]
soft and timid ladies—who witnessed these fear-
ful and bloody spectacles with undisturbed se-
rentity—would raise their thumbs to the suc-
cessful combatant as a sign bespeaking mercy
for the poor, bleeding and mangled form of an
unwilliug victim to the sanctified pleasures of
that great nation.
	But coming down to our own times—the
flower of 1800 years of civilization—and we
do not find it so vastly different. If our plays
are tragedies, it affords us pleasure to be mo-
mentarily lost in the contemplation of some
realistic imitation of terrible human suffering
and wickedness; and while it awakens sympa-
thy for the unfortunate, the more it resembles
life, whether that which is attempted to be por-
trayed be bloody or brutal, the more we enjoy
it and the greater praise is bestowed upon the
individual who, for the time being, has the
power of subjugating the senses of his audience,
and forces them to entertain a deception. I
am not deprecating tragedies, nor dramas, for
I am an enthusiastic admirer of the stage; nor
do I wish to intimate that there is not profit
and sensible pleasure in theatrical exhibitions,
but I do wish to show that, however unwilling
we might be to see in life such horrible deeds
as are hinted at on the stage, nevertheless, the
very possibility of their realism and of their
bloodiness fills the mind with an irresistible
fascination, which is felt with greater keenness
the more intellectual and refined the auditor.
In other words, we are interested, pleased de-
lighted—often ecstatically—in the exhibition
of supreme human suffering. And this is one
of our most refined enjoyments. The Romans
delighted to see the tragedies executed in fact;
we are delighted to see them hinted at, and
the more we are deceived into believing them
real, the more appreciative, or amused, we be-
come.
	Again, in the comedy, or farce, extravagant
as it seems—where buffoonery and clownish-
ness are not the provokers of mirth—we enjoy
ourselves at the supposed expense of some un-
lucky wight, whose adverse fortune, while it is
highly ludicrous to those not surrounded by
his unfortunate circumstances, places him in
the most trying predicament, and causes him
not only mental anxiety, but too often absolute
bodily suffering. And yet it is amusing to us.
The more he appears to suffer the more ground
we find for laughter.
	It may be asked, and with justice, what all
this has to do with "Jokers and Joking." It
has just this much to do with it. The history
of the world—mind you, I do not claim there
are no exceptions—proves beyond the possi-
bility of a doubt, that what is and has always
been considered the most innocent of human
pastimes, is a relic of a bloodthirsty and bar-
baric spirit. Our greatest intellectual treats
are founded upon the most intense and realistic
representations of profound human sorrow;
and the light, airy and innocent laugh is, nine
times out of ten, perhaps ninety-nine times out
of a hundred, created at the expense of one
who suffers for it. The joke, whether practical
or not, is unequivocally a synonym for the dis-
comforture of the one on whom it is perpe-
trated. It has its phases—it may be mild; it
may be severe; it may even, if retaliation ever
is right, be well meant; but it is always, if
successful, provoked by placing a fellow-being
at a disadvantage, by making him a victim, a
butt, a ludicrous spectacle in the eyes of those
with whom he is acquainted in person or by
reputation. The spirit which, in the days of
Roman ascendancy, relished sights of human
butchery, the spirit which, in recent times,
would give a helpless bird to a heartless and
thoughtless child to be plucked to pieces, in
order that the diminutive specimen of human-
ity may be amused and entertained; the spirit
which incites thousands to go to hangings, and
to visit the scenes of human suffering, is the


same spirit which delights in witnessing trage-
dies well played, which laughs at comedies well
presented, and which can smile at the discom-
fiture of a fellow-being because some kind and
charitable individual has had the power to
make him, or some act of his, appear ludicrous
in the eyes of others. It is the same spirit,
though in a milder form; but, in view of the
boasted enlightenment of the age, is no more
charitable than were the performances of the
bloodthirsty Roman populace.
	It is true, there are times when an innocent
laugh may be created, but the very element of
a joke is something vicious, and the best evi-
dence that what I say is true can be found in
each heart. Persons for whom we cherish a
deep and abiding love or friendship, are per-
sons for whose feelings, unless instigated to
momentary retaliation, we entertain the utmost
consideration, and scarcely any sacrifice of
light desires is too great for such persons. We
would do nothing to annoy them. But it is an
individual for whom we have little or no friend-
ship, for whom, perhaps, we cherish a dislike–
founded on good reasons, it may be; how sel-
dom have we the forbearance, the consideration,
the charity, to forego an opportunity of belit-
tling such an individual. Not for a world 
would we inflict bodily pain; but with a sort
of fiendish delight we hold the object of our 
dislike up to ridicule, caring little or nothing
how deeply a sensitive organization be wounded;
and how ten times worse than blows would be
is the punishment we inflict, just by way of a
joke. That's all.
	Heaven save me from a joker! He is
vicious; he is not filled with a truly Christian
spirit; he cannot be refined, or he would know
how easy it is to wound a sensitive organiza-
tion, and lest some one might feel justified in
inflicting the torture on him: he would be care-
ful how he did or said that which might grieve
others. The joker is a tyrant, a boor, and
should be abolished. He is entitled to no
mercy, for he shows none; he brings with him
only a vicious spirit, which he has not the
power to control nor the sense to treat wisely.
					SIMPLY SIMON.


96	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WRITING:

	The art of writing is very ancient, and it is
interesting to note the various improvements
that have been made from time to time. It is
supposed by some that in the Bible is recorded
the first instance, Ex., 17th chap., 14th verse:
"And the Lord said unto Moses, 'Write this
for a memorial in a book.'" And also, Ex.,
24th chap.: "And Moses wrote all the words
of the Lord." But Moroni, in the Book of
Mormon, gives an account of the people of Ja-
red, which he copied "from the twenty and
four plates which were found by the people of
Limhi, which is called the Book of Ether."
The first part of the record "speaks concern-
ing the creation of the world, and also of Adam,
and an account from that time even to the
great tower." (Page 516.) The records also
give an account of the people from the tower
till they were destroyed, about 600 years B. C.
The writer of the record was Ether, a descend-
ant of Jared, who came from the tower of
Babel with his brother and others. Jesus
Christ appeared to the brother of Jared, and
told him to write and seal the things he saw
and heard: "And the Lord said unto him, write
these things and seal them up, and I will show
them in mine own due time unto the children
of men."
	This interview took place a few years after
leaving the tower, which they left at the time
the language was confounded, about 2447 years
B. C., and 426 years before Abraham died;
consequently, the brother of Jared probably
wrote 676 years before Moses, as we do not

[Column 2]
know how long it was after leaving the tower
that Jared's brother wrote, or how old Moses
was when he wrote.
	I suppose the next piece of ancient writing
is The Book of Abraham, purporting to have
been written by his own hand on papyrus, and
translated by Joseph Smith; it was found in
the Catacombs of Egypt. Abraham died 1821
years B. C., and Moses was born 1571 years
B. C., so the former must have written at least
250 years prior to the latter.
	The records of the Nephites were engraved
on plates which had the appearance of gold,
and were hid about A. D. 420; the Lamanites,
the present Indians, were quite degraded then,
and if they practised the art at that time, no
doubt lost it soon afterwards.
	The pen is mentioned in the Bible several
times: once in Job, xix, 23, 24: "Oh, that my
words were now written! oh, that they were
printed in a book! That they were graven
with an iron pen and lead in the rock forever!"
	Many different materials have been used to
write upon; the Egyptians prepared a rush
called papyrus; they wrote upon it with reeds.
Upon waxen tablets they used an iron style.
	Quills were in general use before the inven-
tion of the steel pen, in 1825, by Mr. James
Perry, of Manchester, England.
	Vellum is yet used for writing deeds upon.
Paper made of linen rags was used in England
in 1417.
	Books were scarce till printing was invented.
The first printed book was published in 1462,
and the first newspaper was printed in London
in 1622.
	By writing our thoughts, actions and discov-
eries are committed to paper and preserved for
the benefit of future ages. Had it not been
for this art, our knowledge of the history of
the world would be very meagre and not at all
reliable, as it would be impossible to rehearse
a circumstance from generation to generation
and keep it correct; whereas, a written copy of
a statement would be as coreect in future ages
as at the time of writing.
	Writing is an art that has the direct appro-
bation of Heaven, from being practised by
heavenly beings, for the tables containing the
Ten Commandments were made by God, "and
the writing was the writing of God graven
upon the tables;" and in the 8th chapter of St.
John we read: "But Jesus stooped down, and
with His finger wrote on the ground, as though
He heard them not." "And again He stooped
down and wrote on the ground."
						ANN FELLOWS.


FAREWELL PARTY.

	On Thursday, November 3, the Sisters of
Tooele had a very pleasant party, to pay their
farewell respects to Sister Rebecca Williams,
President of the Primary Association, who is
going to move to Malad to live with her chil-
dren. The party was held at the residence of
Sister Jeanette Delamare. President of the Re-
lief Society. There were present the Bishop
and Counselors and Brother Delamare, and all
the officers and teachers of the Relief Society,
about twenty-seven in number. Our party
commenced with singing and prayer, after
which all the sisters expressed their good feel-
ings and respect for Sister Williams. She
was presented with a gold ring and a very
nice quilt, and Sister Emily Warburton was
also presented with a gold ring, as tokens of
respect for their faithful labors and good works.
Sister Warburton has been our Secretary ever
since the organization of the Relief Society.
After all had expressed their good wishes, the
party sat down to a bounteous repast, and
spent the evening in singing the songs of Zion
and in social intercourse. All went as pleasant
as a marriage feast, and all present felt it was
a time not to be forgotten.
					ANN TATE, Cor. Sec'y.


NOTICE.
HAVING PROCURED A MANNIKIN CHART SPE
cimens, etc., I am now prepared to give instructions
in the art of Obstetrics and other branches connected there-
with. My class will open Nov. 1st, 1881. Those wishing to
join this class will please communicate with me at once, it
being necessary to send east for books. Terms: Tuition, [-]0
Lessons, $30; books, three in number, $12. Address,
					E. R. SHIPP, M. D., Salt Lake City.
	OFFICE and RESIDENCE in Contributor building first door
north of Z. C. M. I.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obe i n found in the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

FOR SALE.

Home-Made SILK,
AT
CUTLER'S: COMMISSION STORE.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
BEMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Spring and Summer Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
[S. P. TEASDEL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 10.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1881.	No. 13.


THE PRAISE OF CHARITY.

13TH CHAPTER OF 1ST CORINTHIANS.

Had I the power to speak with tongue
	Of angel from the highest sphere,
As sounding brass I should become,
	If charity were wanting here!

And though I stood as one of old
	To prophecy of things to come,
With language apt, and spirit bold,
	Or with the gift of unknown tongue;
Or could I by my faith remove
	The mountain from its pristine site;
Or all the hidden mysteries prove,
	And lay them bare to human sight—
Before the Omniscient eye of God,
	He has declared I still should be
"As nothing!"—but a humble clod—
	If lacking Heaven-born Charity!

And tho' my goods to feed the poor
	I give—assuming saintly guise,
The Omniscient Judge would close the door
	Of mercy from before mine eyes,
If charity did not propel
	The motive spring of action here;
And vain 'twould be for me to tell
	I'd fed, and clothed, and shed the tear!
And though upon the funeral pyre
	My body to be burned I'd given,
If charity did not inspire
	All closed would be the gate of heaven!

What strong, uncompromising creed
	In thrilling words is here laid down?
Assist thy people in their need,
	Or, Father, they will lose their crown!

And now the sweet and gentle form
	Of charity is held to view,
By pen Omniscient she is drawn
	Exemplar there for me, and you!

She suffereth long—is ever mild,
	Endureth all things, day and night,
Believeth all things, as a child,
	And hopeth all things good and bright.

When all the elements decay,
	And prophecies and tongues shall fail,
Blest charity shall soar away
	Beyond creations' boundless pale!

And now abideth faith and hope
	And charity!—these holy three!
For all there is immortal scope,
	But oh! their crown is charity!

							HANNAH T. KING.
Salt Lake City, Nov. 7, 1881.


[Column 1]
PEN SKETCH OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS
WOMAN.

ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.

CONCLUDED.

	P. S. It has been said that a woman's letter
is never finished without a postscript, for she is
sure to forget some idea or sentiment which
must be added; and in the present instance I
beg the indulgence of my readers for forget-
ting one important item in the history of Sister
Eliza, which should be chronicled among her
other literary works of merit. I have sought
in this pen sketch of her life to gather up all
facts which would tend to stimulate the young
to follow in her footsteps, and also to record
the real work of this venerable lady, that the
Saints might comprehend and appreciate her
multifarious labors. Directly after issuing the
Primary Hymn Book for the children, of which,

﻿[Column 2]
by the bye, over twelve thousand copies have
already been sold, and ten thousand are to be
issued very soon, Sister Eliza, with her quick-
ness of discernment, saw the necessity of a
TUNE BOOK, to accompany the Hymn Book,
and set about preparing it immediately. She
arranged the hymns to selected music, although
most of the musical composition was original
with our people; this she carefully compiled
for the publishers previous to her visit to St.
George last winter. The Tune Book has been
a great help to those who have charge of the
Sunday Schools, as well as the Primary Asso-
ciations, and is now used in nearly every settle-
ment in Zion. It proves the versatility of tal-
ent possessed by this clever woman, and shows
what one may accomplish even at what is con-
sidered an advanced age, by application and
continuity. Her labors for the children of Zion
have been almost unceasing, and she is at the
present time diligently engaged in compiling a
series of books of recitations and dialogues for
their especial benefit.
	The following poem, composed for the pur-
pose of closing this history of her life was
handed to me some time since (you may per-
haps wonder I should forget it), and furnishes
another reason for my postscript. The lady
speaks for herself her own sentiments, express-
ing her ideas of the vanity of all earthly fame
as compared with the glories of futurity, if we
secure the prize which the Apostle designates
as "the mark of the high calling in Christ
Jesus:"						E. B. W.

BURY ME QUIETLY WHEN I DIE.

When my spirit ascends to the world above,
To unite with the choirs in celestial love,
Let the finger of silence control the bell,
To restrain the chime of a funeral knell:
Let no mournful strain—not a sound be heard
By which a pulse of the heart is stirred—
No note of sorrow to prompt a sigh:
Bury me quietly when I die.

I am aiming to earn a celestial crown—
To merit a heavenly, pure renown;
And, whether in grave or in tomb I'm laid—
Beneath the tall oak, or the cypress shade;
Whether at home with dear friends around,
Or in distant lands, upon stranger ground—
Under wintry clouds, or a summer sky:
Bury me quietly when I die.

What avails the parade and the splendor here,
To a legal heir to a heavenly sphere?
To heirs of salvation what is the worth,
In their perishing state, the frail things of earth?
What is death to the good, but an entrance gate
That is placed on the verge of a rich estate,
Where commissioned escorts are waiting by?
Bury me quietly when I die.

On the "iron rod" I have laid my hold;
If I keep the faith, and like Paul of old
Shall "have fought the good fight," and Christ the Lord
Has a crown in store with a full reward
Of the holy Priesthood in fulness rife,
With the gifts and the powers of an endless life,
And a glorious mansion for me on high:
Bury me quietly when I die.

When the orb of day sinks down in the west,—
When its light reclines on the evening's crest—
When the lamp in the socket is low and dim—
When the cup of life is filled up to the brim—
When the golden Autumn's brief glass has run,
And gray Winter with whit'ning tread moves on—
When the arrow of death from its bow shall fly:
Bury me quietly when I die.

[Column 3]
Like a beacon that rises o'er ocean's wave,
There's a light—there's a life beyond the grave;
The future is bright, and it beckons me on
Where the noble and pure and the brave have gone;
Those who battled for truth with their mind and might,
With their garments clean and their armor bright:
They are dwelling with God in a world on high:
Bury me quietly when I die.
									E. R. S. S.
	Salt Lake City, July, 1881.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	A thousand and one opinions are being daily
expressed concerning the polygamous "Mor-
mons" and their destiny, but the more they try
to solve the problem the harder and more in-
tricate it becomes, which is the natural conse-
quence of ignorance.
	The results which they predict would be
inevitable were it the work or scheme of men,
but as it is the work of the great God, who
will, not behold iniquity with any degree of
allowance, and having promised that the king-
dom shall not be given to any other people; if
we sin He will punish, and if we go astray He
will chasten us. Every principle which the
Lord reveals for the exaltation of mankind
may be perverted, which leads to degradation,
and even to everlasting damnation. There
always has been and always will be those who
pervert the ways of the Lord. The tares must
grow with the wheat until the harvest.
	"Mormonism," so-called, would have died
a natural, death years ago if it had been the
"fraud" which the world represents it.
	The schemes and threats of men have but
little weight with those who have been made fa-
miliar with them from their earliest remem-
brance, and have become accustomed to the
sound, as we do to the idle winds or the bark-
ing of a few curs. The conflict is between
them and our God, who has never forsaken
His people; but He does not expect us to sit
quietly down and fold our hands in idleness,
while our enemies are publishing their outra-
geous falsehoods to blind the eyes of the weak
or credulous to the most glorious truths of
heaven, and to throw ignominy and dishonor
upon our people, more especially the women
and innocent children, who are as much far-
ther advanced in the ways of God and the or-
der of heaven, as our slanderers are in the
road to perdition, but to use every honorable
means to defend ourselves against their vile
attacks.
	The following truthful description of the
Prophet Joseph and his brother, Hyrum, I
think very appropriate at the present time, and
it is quite a treat to read the sentiments of un-
biased and liberal-minded men, who could
afford to give due credit even to "Mormons."
It was written to James Gordon Bennett by a
correspondent of the New York Herald, who
was stopping in the city of the Saints, which
he designated as the "nucleus of a Western
Empire:
	"Joseph Smith, the President of the Church,
Prophet, Seer and Revelator, is thirty-six years
of age, six feet, high in pumps, weighing two
hundred and twelve pounds. He is a man of
the highest order of talent and great indepen-
dence of character—firm in integrity, and de-
voted to his religion; in fact, he is a per-se, as
President Tyler would say. As a public


[Column 1]
speaker he is bold, powerful and convincing,
possessing both the suaviter in modo and the
fortiter in re; as a leader, wise and prudent, yet
fearless as a military commander; brave and
determined as a citizen, worthy, affable and
kind; bland in his manners, and of noble bear-
ing. His amiable lady, too, the electa cyria, is
a woman of superior intellect and exemplary
piety—in every respect suited to her situation
in society, as the wife of one of the most ac-
complished and powerful chiefs of the age.
	"Hyrum Smith, the Patriarch of the Church
and brother of Joseph, is forty-two years of
age, five feet, eleven and a half inches high,
weighing one hundred and ninety-three pounds.
He, too, is a Prophet, Seer and Revelator, and
is one of the most pious and devout Christians
in the world. He is a man of great wisdom
and superior excellence, possessing great en-
ergy of character and originality of thought."
	The following interesting extracts are taken
from a letter addressed to the Editor of the
New York Herald by an officer of the U. S.
Artillery, dated City of Nauvoo, Ill., May 8,
1842:
	"Yesterday was a great day with the 'Mor-
mons.' Their legion, to the number of two
thousand men, was paraded by Gen. Smith,
Bennett and others, and certainly made a very-
noble and imposing appearance. The evolu-
tions of the troops would do honor to any body
of armed militia in any of the States, and
approximates very closely to the regular
forces.	*	*	*	Before many years this le-
gion will be twenty, and perhaps fifty thousand
strong, and still augmenting. A fearful host,
filled with religious enthusiasm, and led on by
ambitious and talented officers, what may not
be effected by them? Perhaps the subversion
of the Constitution of the United States; and
if this should be considered too great a task,
foreign conquests will most certainly follow.
Mexico will fall into their hands, even if Texas
should first take it.
	"These 'Mormons' are accumulating like a
snowball rolling down an inclined plane, which
in the end becomes an avalanche. They are
enrolling among their officers some of the first
talent in the country.	*	*	Only a part of
their officers, regents and professors, however,
are 'Mormons,' but they are all united by a
common interest and will act together on main
points to a man. Those who are not 'Mor-
mons' when they come here, very soon become
so.	*	*	*
	"The Smiths are not without talent, and are
said to be as brave as lions. Joseph, the chief,
is a noble-looking fellow, a Mahomet every
inch of him. The postmaster, Sidney Rigdon,
is a lawyer, philosopher and Saint. Their
other Generals are also men of talent, and
some of them men of learning. I have no
doubt that they are all brave, as they are most
unquestionably ambitious, and the tendency of
their religious creed is to annihilate all other
sects; you may therefore see that the time will
come when this gathering host of religious fa-
natics will make this country shake to the
centre. A western empire is certain. Eccle-
siastical history presents no parallel to this
people, inasmuch as they are establishing their
religion on a learned footing. All the sciences
are taught, and to be taught in the college with
Latin, Greek, Hebrew, French, Italian, Span-
ish, etc., etc. The mathematical sciences, pure
and mixed, are now in successful operation,
under an extremely able professor of the name
of Pratt (Prof. Orson Pratt); and a graduate
of Trinity College, Dublin, is President of
their University.
	"Now, sir, what do you think of Joseph, the
modern Mahomet?	*	*	Who will say that
the 'Mormon' Prophet is not among the great
spirits of the age?"
	The following, dated June 17, 1842, is also
from the N. Y. Herald, and is headed: "Won-

[Column 2]
derful Progress of Joe Smith, the Modern Ma-
homet.—Spread of the Mormon Faith, and a
New Religious Revolution at Hand."
	"By the mails last evening we received a va-
riety of letters and papers from Nauvoo, the
capital of the new religious revolutionary em-
pire, established by Joe Smith; and also from
other towns of Illinois, exhibiting the extraor-
dinary progress of this most extraordinary
people, who call themselves the 'Latter-day
Saints.' These letters and papers are as fol-
lows: First, a letter from a United States ar-
tillery officer traveling through Nauvoo, who
gives an original glimpse of the Mormon move-
ment there. Second, an extract from the San-
gamo Journal of the 3d of June—a newspaper
in favor of the Whig party, and opposed to
the Mormons on account of their locofoco ten-
dency, requiring a review of their military or-
ganization. Third, a law of the Mormon city
of Nauvoo, extending toleration towards all
religions; even Mahometan, and assuming
power to legislate for all with imperial noncha-
lance. Fourth, a public meeting of Mormons
in Nauvoo, developing their sentiments and
position in the elections in Illinois. Fifth, a
letter to Mrs. Emma Smith, the wife of the
Prophet, from a lady in Edwardsville, exhibit-
ing the singular mixture of piety, politics, tact
and shrewdness of those who believe in Mor-
monism. All these letters and documents dis-
close a most extraordinary movement in hu-
man affairs. What they mean we can hardly
tell, but is it not time for some great religious
revolution, as radical as Luther's to take place
in the Christian world?
	"In the early ages of antiquity, before the
dates of the monuments of Egypt, we have
distinguished names handed down to us by
tradition—Brama, Vishnu, Confucius, Zoroas-
ter, Isis, Osiris, including Adam, Seth, Noah,
Abraham, were the master spirits of great an-
tiquity throughout the ancient world. In later
times, Moses and the Prophets, Peter and Paul
and the Apostles of Christ, and even Mahomet,
who acknowledged the truth of Christianity.
Each of these movements was a religions revo-
lution, but that which followed the time of
Adam, Seth, Noah, Abraham, Moses, Christ
and the Apostles, has developed the only true
system of morals, of belief, of revelation, of
prophecy, of man, of God, of eternity. When
the Christian Church was overwhelmed with
follies and superstitions of Rome, and the
thousand quarreling sects of monks and idlers,
a fresh spirit arose in the world—a spark came
down from heaven—Luther lifted up his voice,
and a religious revolution started at his word,
and renovated Christianity. But a new age
has come, a fresh infusion of faith is required,
a strong impulse is rendered necessary.
	"May not this wonderful Mormon movement
be the signal for a new religious revolution? Is
not Joe Smith its master spirit, and General
Bennett its military spirit? The vast progress
of the last century in art and science, through
steam and type, has changed the nature of
man and society. Is it not necessary that a
new religion and a new faith should come
down from heaven, to carry out the destiny of
the race under its present condition?
	"It is very evident that the Mormons exhibit
a remarkable degree of tact, skill, shrewdness,
energy and enthusiasm. The particular fea-
tures of their faith are nothing against their
success. Do they believe their new bible, their
virgin revelation, their singular creed? If they
do so with enthusiasm and practice their
shrewd precepts, the other sects will fall before
them. This is certain—this is human nature.
In Illinois they have already shown how to
acquire power and influence, by holding the
balance of power between both the great par-
ties. They can already dictate to the State of
Illinois, and if they pursue the same policy in
other States, will they not soon dictate to Con

[Column 3]
gress and decide the presidency? In all matters
of public concernment they act as one man,
with one soul, one mind and one purpose.
	"Their religious and moral principles bind
them together firmly. They may be, and have
been abused and calumniated—partly true,
partly false—but whether true or false, these
attacks only increase their popularity and in-
fluence. Unlike all other Christian sects, they
adopt at once all the modern improvements of
society, in art and literature; and from their
singular religious faith give the highest enthu-
siasm to the movement at large. There is
nothing odd, or singular, or absurd about
them.
	"Verily, verily, we are truly living in the
'latter days,' and we should not be surprised to
see that the Mormon religion is the real Mil-
lennium already commenced. One thing is
certain—the Mormons are so constituted that
in these temperance times they will swallow up
all the other lukewarm Protestant sects, and
the moral and religious world will be divided
between the Pope and the Catholics on one
side and Joe Smith and the Mormons on the
other. The oyster is opening and soon will be
equally divided."
	The writers of the above, though rather ex-
travagant in some of their ideas, spoke more
truths than we have been accustomed to hear
for a long time, and many more than the oppo-
nents of "Mormonism" would be willing to ad-
mit, though they oftentimes do so unwittingly.
	We are entirely too clannish to suit the
agents of his Satanic majesty, who knows as well
as we that "union is strength" and power, and
that his craft is in danger; he therefore abhors
it. But as the religion of Jesus Christ, whose
ways are pleasantness, whose paths are peace,
whose end is perfect joy," teaches us to become
one, and as we choose to obey the Almighty,
who, I would ask, among His groveling sub-
jects, should claim the right of saying, "Why
do ye so?" This is the last religious revolu-
tion, and our faith and enthusiasm have been
equal to every emergency. In all that we un-
dertake we are in earnest, because we know
that we are fighting under the bright and glo-
rious banner of Truth, and though the lot of
man is trouble, and we are looking and pre-
paring for it, and for the time when the whole
world will unite to fight against this work, we
have nothing to fear, for truth, though crushed
to earth, will rise again.
	If those not of our faith, who visit our cities,
came with a determination to lay aside their
prejudices, to learn the facts concerning us, or
our religion, nothing would give more pleasure
than to tell it them; but too many who have
come here, after being treated with every po-
liteness and escorted to seats in our Tabernacle
which are reserved for the stranger, sit there,
under the very altar of the Lord's Supper, in
the hearing of Saints who assemble to worship
God, and spit out their venom, or make ridi-
cule of every thing that we hold sacred.
	But the most despicable characters are the
overly righteous souls, who are filled with such
holy horror at the mention of "Mormon" po-
lygamy, and are the ones whom we look upon
with suspicion, and set them down as among
the most corrupt of hypocrites. It is through
their paintings and misrepresentations that
those at a distance join in the cry ofthe hunt-
ers and hounds, for no other reason only be-
cause they see others do it. Many who are
among us (for self-interest or jealousy) keep up
the hue and cry about the dreaded "Mormons"
who are spreading over these Territories, etc.,
till their ignorant dupes might easily suppose
that this people, who sought refuge in the
Rocky Mountains, were preparing to swallow
them up at one mouthful; and more than likely
take in the whole planet.
	If everybody had been as much concerned
and interested in their own affairs, and attended


as strictly to them, as have their far off peace-
able neighbors (who believe in and practice
the principle of "minding their own business")
they might possibly have kept their own gar-
dens from being overrun with those rank weeds
and briars, the thorns of which will yet tear
and pierce their tender flesh till they are re-
minded of the innocent blood which they have
caused to be shed, and of the tears of the
widow and the fatherless and the oppressed ex-
iles, who patiently endured long years of pov-
erty and suffering, brought upon us in conse-
quence of their cruel and wicked falsehoods.
It would be well for them if they would stop
and reflect a little, and instead of shutting
their eyes and ears listen to the voice of truth,
and let common sense and reason govern them
instead of that "green-eyed monster," that fills
their mouths with lying words, and "Slander,
the foulest whelp of sin." It was this that
caused Cain to slay his righteous brother, Abel
and the Jews to hate and crucify the Savior,
and to kill the Apostles and Prophets, because
they would not forsake their religion; and as
they have severely felt the result of it, so is
this nation now feeling the scourging hand of
the Almighty.

To be continued.


98	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 99


ERE COMES THE NIGHT.

What though so difficult is life at best?
What though so longingly we sigh for rest?
Yet must we patiently keep doing, lest
Lost is one moment of the precious light?
Upon our right and left, Death's shadows fall,
Shrouding the high and low, the great and small;
"Work while 'tis day," e'en thus their voices call,
				Ere comes the night.

The day is nearly spent, low sinks the sun;
Our friends are all departing, one by one;
Almost, we wish our needful task was done—
That we might enter yon Elysium bright;
But oh! my soul, be not the least deceived—
Mortals must work, though weary and aggrieved,
For here a victory must be achieved,
					Ere comes the night.

Oh, life! so brief, fraught with results so grand,
Nor morn, nor evening, should we stay our hand;
The living claim our help, the dead demand
Remembrance, too—who died without the light;
Duties of different grades, forever blending—
Labors of love, our human strength transcending;
Yet must these tasks be done, that seem unending,
				Ere comes the night.

Willing the spirit, but the flesh is frail;
Unnumbered ills our best resolves assail;
We fear, lest at the last our strength should fail—
Ere to eternal bliss we earn the right,
Lest, sore discouraged, sinking in dismay,
Losing the light of Faith's celestial ray,
We even might become a castaway—
				Ere comes the night.

Oh, Thou, Who knowest whose desire is pure,
Oh, Thou, "Whose mercy dost for aye endure,"
Help us to everlasting lives secure,
Before this fleeting life shall vanish quite.
So much, so much 'tis needful he should do,
Deign to assist us, and our strength renew;
Without Thine aid we never can get through
				Ere comes the night.

But oh! the tranquil rest, so sweet and sound,
Of the worn body, in the quiet ground,
In blest oblivion, till "The Trumpet's sound"
Quickens the dust, by God's supremest might.
And oh! the full expansion of the spirit.
When this frail dwelling " 'twill no more inherit;
Ah! but our future bliss we NOW must merit,
				Ere comes the night.

				EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
S. L. City.


A VERY impressive funeral service in mem-
ory of President Garfield has been held in
Berlin.


[Column 1]
A DISTINGUISHED WOMAN.

ZINA D. H. YOUNG.

CONTINUED.

	In the preceding chapter of the history of
Sister Zina an error was made in the name of
her grandmother on the mother's side, which
was Dorcas Dimock instead of Diantha as
stated.
	The Huntington family embraced the Gos-
pel at a very early day in Watertown, N. Y.,
and Zina D., when only fifteen, was baptized
by the Patriarch Hyrum Smith, August 1,
1835, and shortly after went to Kirtland with
her father's family. Sister Zina had many
wonderful spiritual manifestations while very
young. On one occasion, at a fast meeting in
the Kirtland Temple, she heard a whole invisi-
ble choir of angels singing; there seemed to be
myriads of melodious voices, whose sweet and
tuneful harmony filled the spacious building.
She was also in the same Temple at the mem-
orable Pentecost, when the Spirit of God filled
the house like a mighty rushing wind. Zina
was also one of the members of the Kirtland
Temple choir, of whom there are at present
but a small number living.
	The Huntingtons removed with the Saints
from Kirtland to Far West, Mo., Zina accom-
panying them. In Missouri she, in common
with others, experienced many very severe
trials and encountered great hardships, through
the persecution brought against the people of
God. Although only a young girl, she had
great faith, and her integrity to the Gospel was
as unflinching then as now. On the 18th of
April, 1839, the Huntington family, including
Zina D., left Far West for Illinois, arriving at
Quincy on the 25th inst., and reaching Com-
merce, afterwards called Nauvoo, on the 25th
of May.
	The Saints were very poor, and many of
them were suffering from fever and ague, and
other diseases brought on by privation and
hardship; they had been driven from their
homes in Missouri, without any preparation for
journeying, and had suffered beyond the power
of pen to portray. Mrs. Huntington, Zina D's
mother, was taken with a congestive chill, on
the 24th of June, and afterwards one after the
other of the family succumbed to disease con-
sequent upon fatigue and privation, until there
was only a boy twelve years old to give them
even a drink of cold water. During this time
of affliction the Prophet Joseph, with his char-
acteristic sympathy for all suffering, showed
them great kindness, doing all in his power to
comfort them, and at one time made them tea
with his own hands. Early in the morning of
the 8th of July, 1839, Sister Huntington's
spirit took its flight, without even a groan or a
quiver of the lip. There were only two of the
family able to follow her remains to their last
resting place on earth. Zina says: "Thus died
my martyred mother! The Prophet Joseph
often said that the Saints who died in the per-
secutions were as much martyrs of the Church,
as was the Apostle David Patten, who was
killed in the defense of the Saints, or those
who were martyred at Haun's Mill. And my
beloved mother was one of the many bright
martyrs of the Church in those dark and ter-
rible days of persecution."
	Sister Zina was married in Nauvoo, and had
two sons born to her, Zebulon and Chariton.
It was a most unhappy and ill-assorted mar-
riage, and she subsequently separated from the
husband who was so little suited to be a com-
panion for her through life. Joseph Smith
taught her the principle of marriage for eter-
nity, and she accepted it as a divine revelation,
and was sealed to the Prophet for time and all
eternity, after the order of the new and ever-
lasting covenant.
	Sister Zina was an active member, although

[Column 2]
quite a young woman, of the first organization
of the Relief Society at Nauvoo, and was
practically interested in the benevolent work
of that institution.
	When the Temple had been so far completed
as to admit of ordinances being performed
therein, Sister Zina did not hesitate to go for-
ward and receive the blessings and endowments
given there to the faithful Saints. She was
united in marriage for time to Brigham Young,
and with the Saints left Nauvoo in the wintry
month of February, and crossed the Mississippi
River on the ice. Many were the hardships of
that eventful period, but Zina was ever true,
full of courage, inspired with faith, and able
to comfort others in the darkest hours of that
weary pilgrimage.

To be continued.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE Massachusetts Woman Suffrage Society
will devote its special effort this winter toward
securing municipal suffrage for woman.

	THE Pennsylvania Railroad Company is
making an effort to abolish the improper use of
the word "depot." The word station is to be
used on its lines henceforth, and even the great
"Union depot" at Pittsbnrg is hereafter to be
known as the "Union station." Richard Grant
White is thus indorsed. The word depot means
a place of storage of goods. Station is the
correct word. Railroads may have their de-
pots for freight, but not for passengers.

	MR. Edgar Bruce, the lessee of the Prince
of Wales Theatre, may congratulate himself
upon being the only manager who has had the
honor of producing a play in the presence of
her Majesty, Queen Victoria, for more than
twenty years. That period has elapsed since
the Queen, in company with one or two of her
children, went to the Adelphia Theatre to see
"Colleen Bawn;" and from that time forth her
Majesty, formerly so ardent a supporter of the
drama, has never been inside a theatre nor an
opera house. The Prince of Wales, however,
deeming it likely that the Queen, whose highland
home is so close to his own, would be induced
to patronize a theatrical entertainment, if given
at Abergeldie, summoned Mr. E. Bruce, who
was at the time performing the "Colonel" at
Edinburgh, and proposed to him to fit up a
stage and bring his company to Abergeldie
Castle. Mr. Bruce, aided by some local talent,
soon turned the huge coach houses of the Cas-
tle into a charming miniature theatre, and on
Tuesday night produced, before a large and
distinguished audience, the comedy which has
been running at the Prince of Wales since
February last. Her Majesty arrived from
Balmoral punctually at nine o'clock, and this
was the signal for the other guests, who had
assembled in the hall at Abergeldie, to pass
into the theatre. Among those present were
Beatrice, Louise, &c. &c. As her Majesty en-
tered the room the band struck up the National
anthem, and the welcome accorded to the royal
party was of a most exceptionally cordial na-
ture. The comedy at once commenced, and
despite the somewhat cramped dimensions of
the stage, and the still more trying ordeal of
such an unusually brilliant audience, the actors
acquitted themselves admirably, and the con-
stant applause and laughter testified to the
satisfaction with which the "Colonel" was re-
ceived at Abergeldie. The curtain fell upon
the last act at half past eleven o'clock, and
her Majesty, who had thoroughly enjoyed the
performance, expressed to Mr. Bruce (who was
presented to her by the Prince of Wales) her
gratification and approval. The Prince after-
wards entertained the company to supper.
Probably now the public may see a little more
of their beloved Queen.


100	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers. 
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	DECEMBER 1, 1881.


[Column 1]
A PLEA FOR UTAH.

	Not at any time within our remembrance has
there ever been so much said in newspapers,
and everywhere, publicly and privately, against
the "Mormons," as at the present time; and we
cannot help mentally exclaiming, What does it
all mean? The "Mormons" are considered an
ignorant people, despised by the great enlight-
ened world at large; they occupy only a small
Territory, they have scarcely any voice and no
vote at the Capital! They are looked upon as an
insignificant class. Only a few years ago, they
were driven into the wilderness, exiled from so-
ciety, their homes and the graves of their fa-
thers. What has wrought this wondrous
change? All sorts of suggestions are being made
to Congress, in regard to dealing with the "Mor-
mons!" The advice comes from editors, priests
and peoples. One might suppose that in the mul-
titude of counsel there would be safety, or that
from all these sources there might be sufficient
wisdom drawn to protect the United States from
a handful of people. What are they afraid of?
Do not people come to Utah and do just as they
please? Have people been restricted here in
worshipping God in their own way? Is it not
proof positive of the fact asserted, when their
chapels and churches are erected not only in the
city, but in country towns, wherever it suits the
convenience of the sect or party to go and settle?
There is no place in all the broad land where
American citizens are better protected in every
right and privilege than in Utah. If not, why
do they come here?
	The "Mormons" are the old settlers, they are
the land-holders and land-owners. It was they
who wrested the desert from barrenness. They
made the roads and bridges and dug the ditches
and canals, plowed and planted and built, and
inhabited and established law and order. Why
should they be interfered with in their life, lib-
erties or pursuit of happiness?
	Why not allow them to worship God according
to the dictates of their own consciences? What
possible injury can they do this free and inde-
pendent Republican government, this great and
powerful nation? The Mormons are not popu-
lar, and therefore what influence can they have
that need be feared? They wish simply to be
respected in their rights as loyal citizens of the
Republic, and this is too much for those who are
so determined to oppose them. When the peo-
ple of Utah have elected, by an overwhelming
majority, a delegate to Congress, to protect or
promote the interests of the whole people of the
Territory, in whatever legislation may be
brought forward concerning Utah, those who
cannot possibly be interested in the matter, and
certainly do not comprehend it, are ready to
denounce the measures and vilify the
man whose record is as clear as one can
be made, and to effect this, circulate all the scan-
dal and gossip that goes the rounds of newspa-
pers and newsmongers.

[Column 2]
	So many things are brought up in this regard
that one can scarcely enumerate the long list of
evils, and so much advice given to Congress that
it must be overcrowded. Congress is urged to
put a stop to the numbering of ballots, which is
an absurdity, as everybody must know who goes
to the polls to vote, that the ballot is a secret
one, and although the name must be looked up
on the registration list, yet no clerk of election
can tell by any means, unless informed by the
person voting, which ticket he or she has folded
and dropped into the ballot box. Another piece
of advice given recently is that plural wives
shall not hold property in their own right. How
very noble, generous and high minded! How mag-
nanimous in fact! How very unlike the charity of
the Savior! Are plural wives not entitled to any
consideration before the law? Why not? Are
they not possessed of the same nature and
gifted with the same powers as other women?
In what do they differ? Many of them are the
daughters of the Puritans and inherit the same
undaunted heroism. We are sincerely sorry for
those who so misunderstand and misinterpret
the motives and actions of the Mormon women,
and who are so anxious to bring about legisla-
tion to deprive them of the rights and privileges
accorded them by the laws of the Territory. If
they could only patiently wait and see the re-
sult of carrying out the views which
seem to them to be so aggressive,
and which are so decidedly unpopular
in the nineteenth century. Is not the
marriage question the all-important one in the
history of nations past, present and future? It
is the condition by which the law of human
progression is balanced, both in quantity and
quality, in race and color. It is the actual pow-
er by which is carried out in life, the first com-
mand given to the human family, to multiply
and replenish the earth; which commandment
is still in force. To improve in everything per-
taining to a higher or more exalted life, or char-
acter, all the light and knowledge which can be
produced should be brought forward. Strange
that it never occurred to the great reason-
ers of the age, who are so anxious to reform
and remodel society, that there might
be conditions that required a change in
the marriage relation. If such changes should
be necessary woman must take a practical part
in the innovation and the revolution which
such a state of things is sure to produce.
	If by self-sacrifice, or say by laying aside self-
ishness and becoming endowed with that no-
bility of character, which will grasp the higher
good for the larger number, a few women have
shown themselves equal to the effort? Examine
without prejudice into the principles of this order
of matrimony, and it will be found a remedy
for many evils that now exist in the world, and
are causing sorrow and misery. Not only
actual death, but death to all the finer sensi-
bilities of the soul, virtue, purity of life and the
progression of race. Look at the large cities
even in the new world! See the misery and deg-
radtion which is so fast increasing year by year,
and then reflect if there is not something need-
ed to allay the wicked practices of men, which
is the primal cause, and their victims women.
Is it not worth the grandest effort of the human
soul?
	The "Mormons" sought in coming here and
reclaiming a desolate wilderness, by the grace
of God and under His direction, to found a social
system that should preclude all possibility of con-
ditions such as exist in the world, at the present
time, implicitly believing that the Constitution
gave them this liberty. The majority of them
have been sincere, and the results have been as
satisfactory as could be expected in one genera-
tion, with all the opposing influences brought to

[Column 3]
bear against them from time to time in various
forms and ways. Utah is growing and increas-
ing in population rapidly. The in-
dustry, enterprise, and thrift of
the people cannot be denied. The happiness
and prosperity of the humble homes that exist
throughout the country is something wonderful,
unless one recalls the devotion of the occupants
to God and their religion, which cannot but
bring down the blessing of heaven upon labors
thus directed. Then why not let well enough
alone? There is no people more willing to ac-
cord privileges to all nations than the people of
Utah. None who would more manfully main-
tain the honor of the nation. To them the Con-
stitution is a divine instrument, given by inspi-
ration. There is one right which cannot be de-
nied, even to Mormons, the right to
petition Congress, and although Mormon-
ism may be unpopular, yet men who sit
in the grand councils of the nation, profess to
hold it as a sacred duty, to present a petition
from any citizen of the United States. One of
the greatest men who ever occupied the postition
of Chief Executive of the nation said: "So far
from refusing to present a petition because it
might come from those low in the estimation of
the world, it would be an additional incentive,
if such incentive were wanting."
	But with God on the side of justice, what
should the Latter-day Saints fear? Nothing.
The great onslaught that is being talked of
against the Mormons exists in the imagination
of those whoare anxious to bring such mea-
sures about, to further their own wicked pur-
poses. It is the same spirit that has prevailed
in other ages of the world, the self-same spirit
that caused the Jews to cry "Cruscify Him!
Crucify Him!"


SISTER'S CONFERENCE AT COALVILLE.

	The Relief Societies of Summit Stake held
their Quarterly Conference at Coalville on Fri-
day, October 28, which we attended by invita-
tion, in company with Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball,
of this city. Meeting commenced at ten a. m.,
Mrs. Mary Jane Atwood presiding. Minutes of
previous Conference were read, in which were
included the formal resignation of Mrs. Sarah
S. Richards, the former President, who resigned
on account of removing to another part of the
country, and the fact that Mrs. M. J. Atwood
had been formally chosen and unanimously
elected to preside over the Relief Societies in
Summit Co. Also that Mrs. Louisa Roundy
had been chosen to preside over the Primary
Associations of that Stake. Reports were read
from the different branches, and verbal reports
were also given, which were very satisfactory.
Speeches were made by Prest. W. W. Cluff,
Bishops Samuel Atwood, Jared Roundy and
Salmon, and Bro. Beard, also by Mrs. S. M. Kim-
ball, Mrs. E. B. Wells and the local sisters. Sis-
ter M. J. Atwood made some excellent remarks
and although she expressed great timidity in re-
gard to presiding, it was not apparent in her
manner, which was dignified and impressive.
The Conference only lasted one day, yet there
was considerable business transacted and many
suggestions made calculated to promote the in-
terests of the organizations represented there.
The Conference adjourned until the last Friday
in March.
	The sisters in Coalville are quietly but indus-
triously working up a very prosperous millinery
and dressmaking business in the interest of the
Relief Society. They have built a house in a
most desirable locality, forty feet long, and width
in proportion, and being on a corner it is well
lighted. In the front there is a very large show
window, which answers nicely to display fancy


goods, of which they keep a good variety. It is
well arranged with screens and curtains for the
various departments of work. Five ladies are
regularly employed there, and we were informed
the establishment is well patronized by people
from Echo and other places in the vicinity.
They keep in the store a fine assortment of ladies'
furnishing goods, for trimmings, etc., which is
quite an advantage.
	Shortly after the house was built the sisters
gave a tea party, and had a very enjoyable time.
The large hall is brilliantly lighted for evening
with handsome chandeliers; and in fact the en-
tire arrangements are suitable and in keeping
with the purpose for which the building was
constructed. We were informed it was all paid
for, and the sisters of Coalville may congratu-
late themselves on having been so successful.
It proves they are women of ability and enter-
prise, from small beginnings to have accom-
plished so much.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 101


[Column 1]
HOME AFFAIRS.

	WORD has been received of the arrival at the
Capitol of Hon. George Q. Cannon, Delegate
from Utah to the 47th Congress.

	BISHOP O. F. Whitney and party, who sailed
from New York Nov. 2, in the S. S. Arizona,
have arrived in Liverpool, having had a very
pleasant and prosperous voyage.

	PRESIDENT Taylor and party are still travel-
ing in the settlements, holding meetings and
making glad the hearts of the people. It ex-
pected they will return about the 5th of the
month.

	AT the Salt Lake Theatre, on Monday eve-
ning, Nov. 5, the Home Dramatic Club will ap-
pear in the play entitled "Our Boarding House."
Mr. Henry Maiben, well known on the Salt Lake
stage in former days, will take a part in the per-
formance.

	ON Sunday morning, Nov. 27, the Primary
Association of the 17th Ward was re-organized
by Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith. Mrs. Julia C.
Howe was elected President, Mrs. Maria Y. Dou-
gall First Counselor, Miss Belle Clayton and Miss
Phebe Tingey also Counselors; Miss Nellie Al-
ford, Secretary; Miss Flossie Alder, Assistant
Secretary, and Master Willie Dougall, Treasurer.
The meeting was addressed by Sisters E. R. S.
and B. W. Smith. The first meeting will be
held on Friday, Dec. 2, at 3 p.m.

	"VOICE from the Mountains," is the title of a
pamphlet of twenty-four pages, by Joel H.
Johnson, published at the "Juvenile Instructor"
office in this city. It contains a brief sketch of
the author's life, and strong testimonies of the
truth of the Gospel, as revealed to Joseph Smith.
Bro. Johnson was born in Grafton, Mass., 1802,
and has been a Mormon half a century; was
with Joseph Smith when the Word of Wisdom
was given him by revelation. The book is one
our young people should read. It is for sale at
the Juvenile Office, price ten cents.

	WE call attention to the advertisement of
"Wild Flowers of Deseret," and suggest to our
readers that it would be suitable for Christmas
Gifts. It is a book no one need be afraid to put
into the hands of their children, and contains a
great variety of poems. The author has strug-
gled very hard to secure its publication, and is
depending upon the sale of it to relieve her from
the embarrassment incurred by publishing
Among other home manufactures, home litera-
ture should not be neglected. We have no hesi-
tation in recommending the book upon its own
merits. It is well worth the price, and more.
Some of the poems are grand, some quaint and

[Column 2]
﻿sublimely touching. When you are purchasing
Christmas Gifts, include "Wild Flowers of Dese-
ret," which may be purchased at this office.

	A SUMPTUOUS dinner was given on Wednes
day, Nov. 23, at 12 m., by the officers of the
Relief Society of the 10th Ward in this city, at
the residence of the President, Mrs. Jane Earl.
All the teachers of the Relief Society of the
ward were invited, also the Bishop and his
Counselors, with their wives. The following
ladies were also present by invitation: Mesdames
Eliza R. Snow Smith, Presendia L. Kimball, M.
Isabella Horne, Bathsheba W. Smith, Elizabeth
Howard, Elmina S. Taylor and Emmeline B.
Wells. After dinner a meeting was held in the
Ward meeting house, which was well attended
by brethren and sisters, Mrs. Jane Earl presid-
ing. A good spirit seemed to prevail, and much
good instruction was given by the sisters men-
tioned above, and many suggestions made calcu-
lated to benefit the Society were they put in
practice. Counselor James Woods made a few
remarks at the close of the meeting, expressing
his appreciation of the work of the different or-
ganizations in which the sisters were so earnestly
and assiduously laboring, and referred to the
order of the Church as set forth by the Apostle
Paul, where, after enumerating the different de-
grees of authority, speaks of the helps; and cer-
tainly he considered these organizations were
essential helps. Sister Eliza explained that
President Joseph Smith stated in Nauvoo that
whenever the Church of Christ was fully organ-
ized upon the earth, the Relief Society existed.


ATTENTION, SECRETARIES!

	The Secretaries of Relief Societies in Salt
Lake Stake are urgently requested to send in
their semi-annual reports by the 5th of March,
as it is impossible for the Stake Secretary to
make a correct report unless she receives the re-
port from each Society in due time.
				M. ISABELLA HORNE, Prest.
				ELIZABETH HOWARD, Sec'y.


IN MEMORIAM.

"She lived a Saint, beloved on earth,
	By friends and kindred dear,
Who knew her well and prized her worth—
	Her memory still revere."
								E. R. S. S.

	Died, in the 15th Ward, S. L. City, Nov. 18,
1881, Mrs. Charlotte W. Griggs. Deceased was
born in Dover, Kent, England, Nov. 4. 1818.
She was baptized in Dover, Dec. 24, 1854, and
came to America in 1856, crossing the ocean in
the ship "Wellfleet," from Liverpool to Boston,
where she landed on the 9th of July. Sister
Griggs, with her family, remained in Boston,
where she formed some pleasant acquaintances
and lasting friendships with other Latter-day
Saints who were temporarily residing there pre-
vious to coming to Utah. She was a woman of
sterling integrity, and one capable of the most
sincere and close confidence in companionship.
	In June, 1861, she left Boston and came to the
frontiers, crossed the plains in Captain Joseph
Horne's company. On the way she met with a
most terrible misfortune, the death of her
mother by accident, being run over with a team.
Mrs. Griggs, who was a widow, and her two
sons arrived in Salt Lake City Sept. 13, 1861.
The same year Charles, her eldest son, died at
the residence of Bishop Hess, at Farmington.
	Sister Griggs was a resident for two years or
more of the Fourteenth Ward, was re-baptized
in that Ward, but removed from there to Fair-
field, in Cedar Valley, where she lived about
two years; subsequently removed back to the
city, where she resided until her demise. She


died at the home of her son, Thomas C. Griggs,
who has but recently returned from a mission to
England.
	Sister Griggs had been for years an efficient
teacher in the Sunday School, where she was
greatly beloved by all. She had been a member
of the Relief Society from its first organization
to the time of her death, having joined the So-
ciety in the 14th Ward at the time it was organ-
ized by Bishop Hoagland. She was zealous in
all good works, was benevolent and kind-hearted
by nature, and delighted in doing good to others.
	She was a firm believer in all the principles
of the everlasting Gospel, and thought no sacri-
fice too great for the Gospel's sake. She sleeps
in peace, and her memory is enshrined forever
in the hearts of those who loved her. Her hopes
of eternal life and a part in the first resurrection
were strong to the last. The funeral was held
at the residence of her son in the 15th Ward.
There was a large number of friends and rela-
tives assembled to pay the last tribute of respect
to the deceased. The singing by the 15th Ward
Choir was heavenly. Counselor D. H. Wells
delivered an interesting and eloquent discourse,
and was followed by Prest. Joseph F. Smith, who
made an earnest appeal to the living to walk in
the ways of eternal life.
								E. B. W.


OBITUARIES.

	DIED, in Moroni, Sanpete Co., Utah, Helena
Sorenson, born in Denmark, 20th of January,
1822, and died Sept. 16, 1881, aged 59 years and
seven months. She was the wife of Michael
Sorenson. She was a Teacher for several years
in Moroni Relief Society; has always been ac-
tive and energetic in the performance of every
duty pertaining to the relief of the poor, to the
orphan and the sick. Sister Helena has lived
and died a true Latter-day Saint. She bore her
sufferings with great patience; she frequently
spoke of death, but always with calmness and
resignation to the will of her Father in Heaven.
She was beloved by all that made acquaintance
with her. She has passed away in the glorious
hope of a part in the first resurrection. She has
joined the hosts of friends behind the vail, who
are looking forward to a re-union with those
that remain. She is deeply mourned by her
posterity and her many friends, who knew her
loving disposition.
							JANE BAILEY.

	DIED, at West Porterville, Morgan Co, Nov.
6, 1881, of inflammation of the peritoneum, Cath-
erine Smithurst, aged 61 years and 22 days.
Deceased was born in Rumworth, Lancashire,
England, Oct. 14, 1820; was baptized into the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Jan. 6, 1850; emigrated with her husband in
1855, but could only proceed as far as New York
for lack of means. While she remained in that
city she entertained many of the Elders who
were on missions, and Prest. Taylor was a fre-
quent visitor at her residence at the time that
he was editor and publisher of the "Mormon."
She emigrated to Utah in 1861. She was a faith-
ful wife and mother unto death, valiant in the
testimony of Jesus, her hopes never flagging
nor her faith wavering in the promises of eter-
nal life. She was the mother of thirteen chil-
dren. She had been for years President of the
Relief Society of this ward, and was energetic
in that capacity and was always willing to re-
spond to every call that was made of her, until
her health failed in 1878, when she was honor-
ably released from that office. She was subse-
quently called to be First Counselor to the Presi-
dent of the Primary Association of this ward,
which office she held to the day of her death.


She passed away peacefully, surrounded by her
relatives and friends, and was laid away to await
the resurrection of the just.
  "Millennial Star” please copy.
						JANE BROUGH.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿TWENTIETH WARD PRIMARY.

  EDITOR. EXPONENT.--The members of the
Primary Association of the Twentieth Ward
held.their Quarterly Conference at three p. m.
on Wednesday, October 19. Opened by singing
and prayer; after which the programme, con-
sisting of recitations, dialogues, songs and instru-
mental music, was carried out in a very able
manner.
	Remarks were then made by Brothers C. R.
Savage, George Romney, William Salmon, T.
B. Lewis, also Sisters P. L. Kimball and B W.
Smith, each encouraging the children to con-
tinue in the good work they were engaged in.
We are never happy in doing wrong, and there-
fore, if we wish to be loved and admired by all
our friends, we must try to do right.  If we at-
tend these meetings regularly and ponder over
the instructions we receive here from time to
time we will have joy and satisfaction; and
when we grow up to be men and women, we
will never regret the time we have spent here.
Be faithful, and you will attain glory, not only
in this world, but in the world to come.
 One or two of the brethren donated some
candy for the children and some presents for the
officers; these were distributed, and Sister How-
and, with an appropriate address, presented to
Sister Emma Toone, our President, a beautiful
Paisley shawl, in behalf of the members of the
Association, as a token of regard and esteem for
her unceasing labor and devotion to the Primary
cause.  This was followed by a poem written for
the occasion, addressed to our President, com-
posed and recited by Miss Isabelle Salmon.
				CELIA SHARP, Cor. Sec.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

FILLMORE.

	The Primary Association of Fillmore held
their first Annual meeting August 17, 1881.
The children met at 2 o'clock p. m. Singing,
"Open the door for the Children." Prayer by
Master R. Russel. Singing, "Dare to do
right." The roll was responded to by 154
members with sentiments and proverbs, Min-
utes of the previous Conference and annual
report read and approved, followed by an ad-
dress by Master Bryant Hinckley in behalf of
the Primary Associations. Programme con-
sisted of songs, dialogues and recitations, in-
terspersed with Bible and card questions, which
were promptly answered by the children. The
exercises were all rendered in a creditable
manner, much to the gratification and enjoy-
ment of the parents and friends assembled.
	A pair of beautiful vases were presented to
the President and Counselors by the children,
with love and appreciation.
	President Hinckley and others addressed
the children, commending them for the good
order, the interest manifested and the advance-
ment made; also gave them good counsel.
	Meeting was adjourned until August, 1882.
Sang, "We are a band of volunteers.." Prayer
by Master Frank Merrill. After the close of
the meeting, the President and assistants passed
candy, cakes and nuts to the children. A
dancing party was given in the evening, which
passed of pleasantly, making a day of rejoic-
ing for the little participants.
							G. HANSEN.

[Column 2]
CHARLESTON.

	Our Primary Associations here in Charles-
ton are in a prosperous condition; we have two
Associations here, owing to our scattered con-
dition as a Ward. We gave the children the
privilege of having a Fair, to encourage them
and to bring forth some of their talent; it took
place on the 3d of November, and was ably
conducted by the President and her Counselors.
A few brethren were present and did all in
their power to encourage the sisters and the
little folks.
	Opened with singing by the children, Joseph
Smith's first prayer." Prayer by our respected
Bishop, N. C. Murdock. Singing by the chil-
dren. Brief addresses were made by the presi-
dents of the Associations and by a few of the
brethren, which were all timely and good.
	The articles on exhibition were too numer-
ous to mention; suffice it to say we had from a
full rigged ship to a baby's slipper, all home-
made, the production of the youth of this place,
also fancy cakes and loaves, made by the little
girls, which, after exhibition, were readily sold
for from fifty cents to one dollar each. Prizes
will be distributed to the children according to
merit. I might say that it will be quite a
task for the judges, as everything was far be-
yond expectation.
	We must not omit to give due credit to
Brothers Richmond and Price for the great
pains they had taken in decorating the school-
room.
	As this is the first thing of the kind that has
taken place in Wasatch County, we thought it
would be well to have it published in the EX-
PONENT, in hopes it may encourage others to
go and do likewise.
	The EXPONENT is a welcome visitor.
					SARAH J. PRICE, Sec'y.

SPRINGVILLE.

	Special meeting of Relief Society at Spring-
ville, Nov. 14, 1881, as Sisters E. R. S. Smith
and L. Felt favored us with a visit. Mrs. Ann
D. Bringhurst presiding. After the usual ex-
ercises Sister E. R. S. Smith introduced Sister
Margaret T. Smoot, who, in addressing us, said
this is a time that we sbould be faithful, and
cease onr light-mindedness. Felt thankful
that she was a handmaid of God, thought it a
high and holy calling. Reminded us of the
Relief Society Conference of Utah Stake, to
be held the 2d of December.
	Sister E. R. S. Smith addressed the sisters,
saying: We have our duties to perform, and it
may cost as much to save us as our brethren.
The work of God is a progressive work; we
understand our duties to-day better than we
did a number of years ago. We can make
professions or not, just as we choose; we can
become joint heirs with Jesus Christ, or gather
the riches of this world around us and die and
be forgotten. We are required to keep the
commandments of God. If you are taking
care of your families with an eye single to the
glory of God, you are doing as much good as
an Elder abroad. If I could arouse one sister
that neglects her duty, to faithfulness, I should
be amply paid for coming. Keep your eyes
fixed upon heavenly things. The Relief So-
ciety was organized as a self-governing institu-
tion, to root out evil; if we were never a clog
in the wheel, would not this help our brethren?
Prest. Young said, "were I to live my life over
again, I would have mothers pay tithing." In
Goshen the Primary children pay tithing; this
helps to turn their hearts to God. I organized
the first Young Ladies' Association that was
organized in Utah; mothers, I want you to
take a deeper interest in the young ladies' and
gentlemen's meetings. A gentleman once
asked a noted lady what they should do for
France; she said, "Educate the daughters of
France!" I would say, educate the daughters

[Column 3]
of Zion, who are to be the mothers of future
generations. We should make some progress
every day. If you beautify your hearts, will
that help me? we must do these things for
ourselves. I want to secure to myself those
family ties which are eternal. What is life
without husband, children and home? If I do
not attain to Celestial glory it wtll be my own
fault; if I secure this, it will be everything to
me. God is the first and last thing I strive to
think of. Do you impress upon your children's
minds what they are baptized for when they
are eight years old? Send them to Primary
meetings; arrange your housework so it shall
not interfere with their meetings. Should it
take all our time to feed and clothe our bodies?
No! let our spirits always take the lead of our
mortal bodies. Do away with selfishness.
Plural Marriage will help us to overcome this
faster than any other principle. God revealed
this principle for our benefit; if we are ashamed
of one principle of the Gospel, Christ will be
ashamed of us. God bless the honest and
faithful. I want to accomplish all the good I
can in this life, overcome evil and gain a ful-
ness of glory. Amen.
	Sister Felt begged the sisters to let Sister
Eliza's words sink deep into their hearts; seek
the knowledge of God earnestly. Gather
your children around you; tell them your ex-
perience; teach them to honor the principles of
God, polygamy not excepted, so we can come
back into the presence of our Maker.
	Bishop Bringhnrst made appropriate closing
remarks. Spoke briefly to mothers upon edu-
cation, tithing and polygamy; begged mothers
not to rebuke their husbands before their chil-
dren. God preserve you. Amen.
The President endorsed all that had been said.
Primary meeting appointed that evening. Sing-
ing. Prayer by Brother Wm. Kelsey.
			ANN D. BRINGHURST, Pres't.
			SEMIRA L. WOOD, Sec'y.

MILLARD.

	Report of the Seventh Quarterly Conference
of Millard Stake, held at Fillmore, Aug. 18,
1881, B. M. Pratt presiding. Present on the
stand, Prest. I. N. Hinckley and Counselors,
Bishop J. D. Smith, of this city, and Bro.
and Sister Yates, of Scipio. After the usual
opening exercises the minutes of the previous
Conference were read and accepted. Reports
of the different wards were also read, including
the condensed report, which reads as follows:
	Teachers, 75; members, 435; total officers
and members, 537; meetings held, 104; aver-
age attendance, 135. WOMAN'S EXPONENT
taken, 37. On hand at date of last report,
cash, $169.05; property, $2,572.49; wheat,
1,098 bu., 38 lb. Receipts: Cash, $148.17 ½;
property, $134.29; wheat, 68 bu., 11 lb. Dis-
bursements: To the poor, cash, $39.62; prop-
erty, $95.27; Temple, cash, $16; property,
45.65; books, $1.25; building, cash, $37; prop-
erty, $37.73. On hand, cash, $170; property,
$2,734.62; wheat, 1,203 bu., 40 lb.
	The verbal reports were also satisfactory,
showing an increasing interest, both spiritually
and temporally.
	Excellent and appropriate instructions were
given by those who addressed the sisters, espe-
cially by Prest. B. M. Pratt, who is richly en-
dowed with the Spirit of God, impressing upon
them to be energetic in the discharge of their
duties, and reminding them of their responsi-
bilities as mothers, in guiding the minds of
their children, that they do not adhere to infi-
delity and other vices.
	Several of the brethren expressed a pleasure
in listening to the reports and remarks of the
sisters; gave good counsel and instruction.
Adjourned till two P. M. Singing. Benedic-
tion by Bishop J. D. Smith.
	The afternoon session was devoted to the Y
L. M. I. A., Lucinda Brown presiding. Writ-


ten and verbal reports were favorable to their
advancement in the knowledge of the things
of God. Much good advice and exhortations
were given by President Brown and others.
	Conference was adjourned for three months.
Singing. Benediction by J. V. Robison.
						D. K. OLSEN.

			GOSHEN PRIMARY.
	At a meeting of the Primary Association of 
Goshen, held Saturday, Nov. 12, 1881, Sisters
E. R. S. Smith and Louie Felt were present.
After preliminary exercises, the children's pa-
per, called "The Morning Star," was read by
Miss Price, which contained many excellent
articles. The third chapter of Matthew was
recited by four  little girls, select reading, and then
another song; chapter from Book of Mormon,
committed to memory by Lizzie Higginson;
recitations by a girl and boy. After which
Willie Burrowson, James Burrowson, Willie
Higginson, Charley Price and George Poulson
each made a few excellent remarks. Sister
Snow Smith then addressed the children, and
asked them questions from the book, "Bible
Questions and Answers."
	Sister Louie Felt, Sister Stickney, President
Sarah Roberts and Bishop Price each addressed
the children a few moments. The meeting
closed with singing and prayer.
					LOUIE FELT.

		SPRINGVILLE PRIMARY.
	The several Primary Associations of Spring-
ville held a joint session in the meeting house
in that city Monday evening, Nov. 14, the oc-
casion being the visit of Sister Eliza R. Snow
Smith and Sister Louie Felt, who were anxious
to meet with all the children of the different
wards. Sister Louie Felt was chosen to pre-
side. After singing and prayer, Sister Felt
asked various questions, which were promptly
answered by the little folks; and also made a
few opening remarks. A song was sung, enti-
tled "Do right," by Zina Huntington; recita-
tion, "Not so easy," a little boy; recitation,
"Our Father in Heaven," by a number of lit-
tle girls; recitation, "When I'm a man," by a 
company of little boys; recitation, "The or-
pahn's prayer," by a little girl.
	Sister Felt made a short speech upon sub-
jects calculated to inspire the children with
faith and good works. Sister Eliza next ad-
dressed the meeting. In the course of her re-
marks, related in a pleasing way instances
of what the children were doing in the differ-
ent settlements. Spoke of some Associations
where they were saving the money donated, to
help emigrate poor children from other coun-
tries. She asked them some questions and
entreated them to improve their minds and store
them with things pertaining to the Gospel.
Gave, in her most happy manner, a description
of the manner in which Indians conducted
themselves in meeting-of the good order they
observed.
	Bishop Bringhurst exhorted the chiidren to
put in practice the teachings they had heard.
	Brother Kelsey felt glad to see the advancement
the children were making. Many excellent
things were alluded to in the remarks made
and all felt amply repaid for coming together.
Dismissed with singing and prayer.
				MARY T. AVERY, Sec'y.
		GUNNISON PRIMARY FAIR.
	On the 15th of October our Primary held
its first Fair in Gunnison. People who came
to see it were agreeably surprised. There were
but eighty-nine articles exhibited, which how-
ever, were made by fifty-fve children. There
were some beautiful little notions, as well as
handsome, useful articles. A pie, made by a
little girl between four and five years of age;
[Column 2]
a beautiful rug (three weeks work) by a girl
of fourteen; twenty-one skeins of yarn by a
girl thriteen; a set of toy dishes, two marbles
and a miniature grindstone, carved in petrified
white clay and white sandstone, by a boy ten,
who carved it while herding cows in the hills,
where he found the material. One girl seven
years old exhibited two pairs of exellent
stockings for children, one pair mittens, one
pair garters, one necktie and a sample, all
knitted. There were cradle quilts, pillow slips
and lace, tidies, lamp mats, mottoes, wall pock-
ets, match-safes; wool and hair flowers, work
baskets, a tin funnel, beautiful white salt,
honey, a straw hat colored and trimmed, cab-
bage, onions, carrots, bread, cakes and pud-
dings-which latter articles we had reason to
know were very good. Balls of carpet rags
adn quilt blocks were sewed by quite small
girls. And considering that "great things have
small beginnings," we look forward to grand-
times in the future for our Primary.
	The proceeds from the Fair (five cents per
ticket) were used to buy books for the Primary,
such as "Bible Questions and Answers," "Faith
Promoting Series," and "Primary Hymn
Books."
	The children and their mothers, who took
active parts in the Fair, feel that there is  a 
wide field open even in this direction, and
many were the expressions of encouragement
and well deserved praise to the children that
day.
	A few of the articles exhibited were donated
to the Primary Association and sold on the
spot, which was the occasion of some good-
natured competitive bidding, which greatly
pleased and encouraged the industrious little
donors.						H. M.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CORRESPONDENCE.
To E. B. Wells:
	Dear Sister -The EXPONENT! I have had
the dear little friend in my house so long, that
I cannot afford to part with it now. As Presi-
dent of the Relief Society of this place, I
cannot do without it; it is a source of benefit
and comfort to me.
	There are fifteen families of Latter-day
Saints residing in this place at present. About
one year ago our town site was selected and
named Erastus, in honor of Apostle E. Snow;
in a short time after he paid us a visit, and
was much pleased with our location, and also
the name.
	Brother C. G. Curtis, in digging a ditch near
some old ruins, found a finger ring, which
proved to be silver, worn perhaps by some
dusky maiden in ages past. There are many
old relics to be found all over this country,
which belonged to a people so far back that
none of the present set of inhabitants can tell
anything about them.
	We have for our Bishop, Sextus Johnson, a
fatherly, good man. We have a Relief Society
and Young Men's Association. About one
month ago our beloved sister, Mrs. Wilmirth
East, Stake President of the R. S., the Pri-
mary President and her Counselors, were here
and organized the Primary Association.
	We have many trials of late; we have had
an Indian scare, but nothing serious to us or
the surrounding settlements of the Saints. We
feel to rejoice that we have been preserved.
While we obey the commands of God we can
claim His blessing.
	Ever praying for my dear sisters and the
welfare of Zion, I subscribe myself a laborer
in the great cause of truth.
				MATILDA P. KILLIAN.


HERR J. von Schoeffer has been appointed
Austrian minister to the United States.


TRUTH vs. FICTION

TO THE AUTHOR OF "LIGHT READING," IN WO-
	MAN'S EXPONENT FOR OCTOBER 15, 1881.

	Dear Friend:-You have endeavored, in
your article named above, "to prove that novel-
reading is a study of art." I doubt not that
you have succeeded to the satisfaction and also
to the injury of many young, romantic minds,
in proving that novel-reading and novel-writing
is a noble pursuit: Allow me, in all sincerity
and soberness, to offer my frank opinion upon
the subject, which is that such satisfaction
as may be gained from such sources is false,
and consequently must be injurious. If we
speak, shall we not speak truthfully? And
how much more necessity is there, if we write,
that we write the truth, since characters, even
on paper, may be preserved for ages, and we
know not by whom they may be read.
	I am not an inexperienced person in regard
to the subject in question. I have read more
novels than scores of people who are much
wiser than myself, and I know just what it is
to follow the novelist among all the beautiful
as well as thorny paths which he searches out
for his followers to tread upon and scramble
through, watching his beloved heroes and hero-
ines with all the absorbing interest and anxiety
of a faithful sponsor or guardian. And more.
I know what it is to feel that I too have been
gifted with the divine, immortal power that
will enable me to interest others as I have been
interested; to call forth the tenderest sympa-
thies and work upon the finest senses of the
human soul!
	More than once or twice have I made "burnt
sacrifices" of rolls of manuscript, containing
glorious characters and splendid plots, because
-acutated by the sixth sense, to which those
who strive to be Saints are entitled, namely,
the Spirit of God- I could but see that with
all their glory and with all their splendor, they
were false. Yes, false, so far as I knew; for
although I had described them as though I
had known them to be true, I had never known
any such thing.
	The admonition of the good spirit comes in
different ways at different times. I had once
happily produced a portion of what was to be
a very find drama. Opening my first Book of Mor-
mon, I read a portion of the first book of Ne-
phi, in which these words occur: "And the
large and spacious building which they father
saw, is vain imaginations and the pride of the
children of men." I had read the words be-
fore, but had never comprehended their mean-
ing as I did then. "Vain imaginations! The
Spirit told me that pondering over and conjur-
ing up objects and subjects and circumstances
that never were and never will be, and pre-
tending to give them reality, was vain imagina-
tion. Can you find any plainer interpretation 
of the term?
	You say "the novelist is a creator." He
makes his own worlds, and peoples them," &c.
But alas! they are like the Sectarian God,
"without body, parts or passions," and has no
existence anywhere. So after all, what a worth-
less creation! "The Blacksmith's Dream,"
which was on exhibition here a year or two
ago, is of more consequence than such a world;
for that does consist of something that can be
seen, heard and handled.
	You say that "by means of novels many
widespread abuses have been corrected in na-
tions; but you do not state that many more
evils have been more widely spread by the same
means, in the shape of wasted time and talents,
mistaken aims and dissipated lives. We might
say that thousands of valuable lives have been
saved by the judicious use of excellent brandy;
and make no allowance for the millions of
lives which are wrecked and lost by the inju-
dicious use of similar articles. But would that


justify any teacher or leader in placing the
tempting cup to the lips of youth and declaring
it noble and sublime? No! Nor would it
justify any Latter-day Saint in giving his time
and attention to the production of spirituous
liquors, no matter how great his abilities for
producing excellent articles might be. There
is better employment, nobler aims for the Latter-
day Saints than the production, study, or use
of novels or whiskey.
	Shakespeare, I believe, lived and wrote ac-
cording to the best light he had in his day;
and other great authors may have done the
same. But in our day, let us thank God that
greater light has come into the world, and that
His people are called to a higher calling than
the production or study of fiction. Let us
praise and bless Him that He has given us pre-
cious, tangible, eternal truths to study and re-
flect upon, and to talk and write about.
	I am aware that occasionally a page or a
paragraph of a novel contains some excellent
moral lesson, or embodies some beautiful senti-
ment. But we can always find lessons on the
same subjects, and even more exalted senti-
ments, more briefly and yet more clearly stated
in the written word of God. The best writers
of fiction invariably turn to the Scriptures for
their best and wisest arguments.
	Then is it not wisdom in us to search the
Scriptures for ourselves, and find them in their
own beauty and strength, rather than take an-
other's rendition of them, mixed up with a
great deal of adulterating material? I say it
is. One of the commandments of the Lord to
His Saints is, "Treasure up in your minds con-
tinually the words of life." Surely "the words
of life"—Life Real, Life Eternal, are not to be
found in any man-created work, or in anything
whatever, save in Truth Real, Truth Eternal!
								LULA.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SUFFRAGE LETTERS.

	We gladly re-publish the following letters,
which we selected from among many others of
the same character in the Woman's Journal.
They were addressed to Lucy Stone, President
of the American Woman Suffrage Association.
These letters are from two distinguished Ameri-
can writers—men well versed in all the impor-
tant questions of the age, and speak hopefully
to all interested in the subject of equal suf-
frage.

JOHN G. WHITTIER.

DANBERS, MASS., 10th Mo., 1881.

	MY Dear Friend, Lucy Stone:—I am
glad to learn by thy note that a Suffrage con-
vention is to be held soon in Louisville, Ky.,
and l hope the women of the Southwest will
take a lively interest in it. If any considerable
number of the intelligent women of Ken-
tucky show themselves earnest advocates of
impartial suffrage, there can be no doubt that
the best men of the State will accede to their
wishes. The complete success of the cause is
only a question of time. Every intelligent ob-
server sees this; and there are many indications
that its advocates will not have long to wait
			Thy friend,
						JOHN G. WHITTIER.

WENDELL PHILLIPS.
		BOSTON; October, 18.

	DEAR FRIEND:—I regret much my inabil-
ity to attend your annual meeting, as my whole
heart is in the cause. It seems to me the next
great move in social and civil progress and
civilization. The great causes of education
and temperance are closely allied to it. The
problem here to deal with is the vice of great
cities, and perhaps the possibility of preserving
Republican institutions is wrapped in it. Its


success goes further  to complete our civiliza-
tion than any other reform.
	I hope you will have a gathering earnest and
enthusiastic enough to stir the community pro-
foundly. 		Yours respectfully,
		WENDELL PHILLIPS


THERE was a reduction of $13,321,458 in
the national debt during the month of October.

 THE Eleventh Annual meeting :of the
American' Woman Suffrage Association was
held at Louisyille, Ky., the 25th and 26th
inst.
	The Woman’s Congress held its ninth ses-
sion in Buffalo in October. It was presided
over by Julia Ward Howe, and continued its
sessions three days.
	The Annual Convention of the Woman’s
National Christian Temperance Union, recently
held in Washington, Miss Anthony writes,
voted solidly forequal suffrage for woman, as
a means of fighting their prohibition battle.
	The damage to property occasioned by the
recent overflow of the Mississippi River will 
amount t6 nearly $3,000,000. business at
Oshkosh and Fond du Lac. Wis.,was practically
suspended by the flood from Lake Winnebago.


GOOD-NATURE is the best feature in the fin-
est face. Wit may raise admiration, eloquence
lead the mind captive, judgment command re-
spect, knowledge attention, beauty inflame the
heart with love, but good-nature has a more
powerful effect. It adds a thousand attractions
to the charms of beauty and gives an air of
beneficence to the homeliest countenance.


[Column 1]
"WILD FLOWERS of DESERET."

BY AGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.

A BOOK OF POEMS OF 240 PAGES. SUBJECTS: RE-
ligious, Sentimental, Humerous, Domestic, Historical,
Quaint and Pathetic. Leather, $1.50; Cloth, $1.25.
Postage free. Address: Mrs. A. J. Crocheron, Box 419, Salt
Lake City. Send Money by P. O. Order or Registered Letter.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD
DENTIST.
[image of dentures
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed
OFFICE:—MAIN ST OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P. O. BOX, 541.

JUST ISSUED
By J. H. HEMAN,
Salt Lake City, Utah.
[image of a bible on a pillow]
BIBLE ALMANAC
FOR
1882.
(Second Year.)
15 cts. per copy.
	A liberal discount will be allowed to Canvas-
sers.
	A few copies of last year's Almanac for sale
at the same price.

[Column 2]
NOTICE.
HAVING PROCURED A MANNIKIN CHART SPE
cimens, etc., I am now prepared to give instructions
in the art of Obstetrics and other branches connected there-
with. My class will open Nov. 1st, 1881. Those wishing to
join this class will please communicate with me at once, it
being necessary to send east for books. Terms: Tuition, [-]0
Lessons, $30; books, three in number, $12. Address,
					E. R. SHIPP, M. D., Salt Lake City.
	OFFICE and RESIDENCE in Contributor building first door
north of Z. C. M. I.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS.
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obe i n the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

FOR SALE.
Home-Made SILK,
AT
CUTLER'S:COMMISSION STORE.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Spring and Summer Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 10.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1881.	No. 14.


HOLIDAY HINTS.

How sweet that after lovely Spring
The Summer comes on golden wing,
With all its store of treasures;
An after Autumn, grave and grand,
Led by brave Winter's master hand,
Comes Christmas with its pleasures;

Dear Christmas is the children's time,
For Santa Claus, and blissful chime
Of laughter and of sporting;
And as we elder, larger grow,
A precious, splendid time, you know,
For love and youthful courting.

But little folks, and young folks too,
While Christmas kindly smiles for you
And me, let us remember
There are some hearthstones cold and bare,
Some tables with but scanty fare,
And it is bleak December.

And in some homes where wealth is found,
Strange doubts and suffering may abound,
And eyes no gladness borrow;
For death or sickness may be there,
And faces pale with anxious care,
And hearts o'erwrought with sorrow.

So let us humbly wish and pray
God's loving hand to chase away
Those pangs, so dark and dreary:
That all may smile, and none may weep,
But each a merry Christmas keep,
And New Year bright and cheery.

And while we pray, let's keep in view
We've also something else to do,
Who in this day are living;
Nor let our minds be fondly set
On presents we may hope to get,
But what we would be giving.

Whatever good our Father sends,
Let us still recollect, my friends,
My sisters and my brothers,
That nothing can so truly bless,
Or bring such perfect happiness,
As doing good to others.

As Jesus died that we might live,
So let us heed and reverence give
To this unfading sample;
And while His birth we celebrate,
Strive in our lives to imitate
His pure and high example.
								LULA.


[Column 1]
CHRISTMAS.

	Christmas is coming! Christmas is coming!
is the cry sounding all around. All the shop
windows are filled with such pretty and won-
derful little things, making the children stare,
and shriek with delight. And many times we
hear some little voice say, "I wonder what
Santa Claus will bring to me." At home the
hands are all so busy, and every one is so very
sly, so as to keep the pretty gift a secret until
the merry day.
	Yes, the gay, joyous holiday is near, the
time of great rejoicings and fun-making; the
time when all hearts are filled with love and
kindness; the time when we truly feel to act
by the Golden Rule—do unto others as we
would be done by. The happy time brings
forth many sweet recollections in the hearts of
all. Children recall with the utmost joy the
bright Christmas tree, all glowing with its little
wax candles and glistening ornaments. With
what delight the toys are received, and what a
noisy day it is, with its trumpets and drums
and bells, and all its bright and pretty things.

[Column 2]
How wide the childish eyes open, and with
what gladness the little voices ring as the
bright, shining spectacle of the Christmas tree
is shown to them.
	Yes, such are the Christmas times now-a-days;
but I recall with sweet pleasure the time when
beautiful things were not quite so plentiful, but
the Christmas was just as gay. We had no
great evergreen trees then, all filled with shin-
ing lights and rare and costly toys, but we had
a line of little stockings all hanging round the
chimney corner, and each little heart had per-
fect faith that Santa Claus would bring him or
her something nice- How we hated to go to
bed Christmas eve, thinking that if we might
sit up the great Christmas king would come
and we could see him; but he never comes
where little ones are naughty, so we had to
mind our dear mother, and saying a sweet
goodnight, we would bend in prayer, and then
hush softly to sleep.
	All was still and quiet, and I fancy now I
see the dear, kind heart moving noiselessly
around, filling the tiny stockings with the little
things that made our hearts so glad. Then in
the cold, frosty mornings—how early we used
to wake in those days—each little one would
pop out of bed, and claim her stocking so full
of goodies now, so empty when she saw it last;
with what unspeakable delight we used to
draw out, one by one, the little toy, the nuts,
the candy, all sweeter and prettier than ever
because it was Christmas. Yes, this was a day
when we laid aside all our troubles and harsh
feelings, when we all tried to make each other
truly happy.
	Let us pause in the midst of our fun and re-
joicings, and spend a few moments in sweet
thanksgiving for this blessed day. We will
think of Him who gave us light, who brought
the pure knowledge of Christianity, and of the
One who was crucified to redeem the world.
What a day should it be—the day when our
Savior was born! Rejoice all the world, and
sing praises for this blessed day, the anniver-
sary of the birth of our dear Savior. Yes,
the memories of this day are sweet; sweeter,
perhaps, by being mellowed with time. The
rejoicings of this day are happy, and happy
may they always be.
	A merry, bright Christmas to all my friends,
and may the future be as beautiful to you all
as the dear past is to me.
[handwritten] Annie Q. Cannon	ANNIE.


[COLUMN 1]

	HOW TO ATTAIN SUCCESS.
			     -----
	Mankind in general, and in all ages, have
had a desire to become noted; to do something
which shall call forth, or be worthy of admira-
tion, or in some degree benefit the human race.
To accomplish this object in the most expedient
way is the chief aim of life. Our aims and
desires differ as our dispositions, and the meth-
ods employed in accomplishing the desired ob-
ject perhaps vary as much as they.
	It is necessary that every one select an occu-
pation that is suitable to him. He should then
strive to adapt himself to this profession, so
that it shall in no way be odious, and as slightly
irksome as possible.
	It is no uncommon thing for people to say
that to become great, the individual must pos-
sess abilities superior to the average class of
mankind.  This is decidedly a mistake; genius
is desirous, but not necessary to success. In
reviewing the lives of eminent men and women,

[COLUMN 2]

we find that genius often succumbs, where en-
ergy and endurance prevail. Neither do we
wish to ignore wealth, position, or natural tal-
ents. The individual who possesses these, ac-
companied with will and determination, will be
sure of success, and happy is he who is thus
favored.
	There is, however, no need for speculation
on the subject. No doubts need  be entertained
respecting our final success, if we adopt and
carry out the plans of those who have been
successful. Relying upon history, we find that
the most noted men, those who have stood upon
a pinnacle of greatness, have attained this de-
gree of eminence by their indomitable will and
perseverance. The genius may become famous
sooner than the man of ordinary abilities; but
to him who overcomes the greatest obstacles,
the greatest credit is due.
	But how often we attribute to natural abil-
ity that which is the result of energy and per-
severance. The admirer of a lovely picture
might be heard to exclaim: "That artist has a
refined soul, rare genius, lofty imagination,"
etc. He forgets that the parts in the picture
which demand his praise are the result of a
careful and life-long stndy. Or, perhaps we
visit the theatre to witness the skill of some re-
nowned musician; and while we watch with
wonder the dexterity of his movements, and are
enraptured by the soul inspiring strains, we
often become oblivious to the fact that years
of patient toil and persevering practice were
necessary to attain such a degree of excellence.
The scientific lecturer, who, by his diligent re-
searches after knowledge, has made himself
acquainted with the laws and objects of na-
ture, may elicit from his audience expressions
like these: "What keen perception!" "What
profound thought!" "A mind capable of
penetrating the deepest recesses and bringing
to light the hidden mysteries." No doubt his
hearers become envious of his wealth of knowl-
edge, and perhaps some are ungenerous enough
to say that nature has been partial in the be-
stowal of her gifts.
	Neither should we be daunted by failure.
"Failures," it has been said, "are the stepping
stones to success." They excite to action and
show the necessity of additional perseverance.
	Franklin, Lincoln, Disraeli and others are
excellent examples of perseverance. They
show to us what can be accomplished by men
with a will and a determination to succeed.
Nor need we go beyond our own community
for self-made men. Our late, esteemed friend,
Orson Pratt, was a good illustration of this
class of men. It was due to his untiring ener-
gy and continual delving after knowledge that
he rose from obscurity to occupy the front
ranks, so that as an astronomer and mathema-
tician he was seldom surpassed, or even equaled.
	"What man has done, man can do," has been
truthfully said. Remember that we have the
power to become good and great, if we so order
our lives; or we may become the reverse by
encouraging idleness and succumbing to diffi-
culties.						   CAMEO.
	December 6, 1881.


MRS. Garfield is now settled with her three
younger children in their new home on Euclid
avenue, Cleveland. They will remain there
until April, and will then return to Mentor.
The elder Mrs. Garfield will spend the winter
with the widow of her son.


106	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	As Rogers (author of "Pleasures of Mem-
ory") says, "He who feels the infirmities of age,
dwells most on whatever reminds him of the
vigor and vivacity of his youth." We know
this to be true; and there is a tender and pleas-
ant melancholy which arises in the mind of
every one in the decline of life. He continutes:
"Nor are we pleased only with a review of the
brighter passages of life. Events, the most
distressing in their immediate consequences, are
often cherished in remembrance with a degree
of enthusiasm. This," he says, "is the lan-
guage of the heart, and will remind the reader
of that good-humored remark in one of Pope's
letters, 'I should hardly care to have an old
post pulled up, that I remembered ever since I
was a child.' "
	These words come home to the heart, and
remind us of similar attachment to the place
of our birth and objects and associations famil-
iar to us in early youth.
	Though pleasing the task, I often find it a
very difficult one to gather up the many broken
threads of the almost forgotten past, and weave
them into a shape for the persual of others,
and it is a pleasant relief, like a cooling draught
to the thirsty traveler, to find here and there a
scrap of our history interwoven with that of
others, bringing before us objects and scenes
which were once familiar, but had become dim
and nearly effaced from our memory by the
hand of time, which has been to me unsparing
in its ravages. How forcibly I am here re-
minded of my father's request, in a letter writ-
ten me in 1844, while upon his last mission to
the Eastern States, urging me to commence
then to write my life as far back as I could re-
member, and to tell my brother William to do
the same; "And then," said he, "you can put
all the letters I write you in their proper places,
and when I write my history yours shall go in
with it, to be handed down to our children for
them to read." I neglected to do so, and can
only look back with regret at not heeding his
wishes.
	In the Spring of 1842 father, with my
brother William's assistance, plowed and
planted us a garden. This he did every season,
but never had the privilege of reaping the
fruits of his labor until after he came to this
valley.
	It was a common thing for the Elders, who
left all to go forth to other lands to preach the
Gospel without purse or scrip, to return empty
handed and go to work chopping wood, build-
ing houses, planting, or any kind of labor to
support and provide food and raiment for them-
selves and families. They never thought of
complaining, but rejoiced in the knowledge
that they had been faithful in declaring the
truth to the honest in heart, and thought no
sacrifice too great in such a cause; and this
they have continued to do until the present
time. But where in all Christendom can there
be found any other class of men who would
willingly go forth, with no other source to look
to for assistance, but to Him Who commanded
that His Apostles should go forth into all the
world and preach the Gospel to every creature,
saying, "He that believeth and is baptized
shall be saved, but he that believeth not shall
be damned; and these signs shall follow them
that believe: in my name shall they cast out
devils; they shall speak in new tongues; they
shall take up serpents, and if they drink any
deadly thing it shall not hurt them; they shall
lay hands on the sick and they shall recover."
Peter said, "Is any sick among you? let him
call for the Elders of the Church, and let them
pray over him, anointing him with oil in the
name of the Lord," etc.
	These are among the doctrines which have

[Column 2]
been taught and practised by the Latter-day
Saints, and for which they were persecuted,
murdered, robbed and driven from State to
State and finally out of the Union, and the
majority of its inhabitants rejoiced at our ca-
lamities.
	On the 10th of September my father left us
to go on a mission through the southern part
of Illinois, in company with Prest. Brigham
Young, Elders George A. Smith and Amasa
Lyman. The following is from my father's
journal.
	"We proceeded to Quincy, and preached at
that place several times. The indifference of
the people and the little regard they appeared
to have for the Gospel, led me to reflect con-
siderably upon the hardness of their hearts and
situation. I went to bed and dreamed the fol-
lowing dream:
	"I thought I went out on a fishing excursion,
and whilst traveling up and down the stream
to find a good fishing place, I was astonished
to see so very few fish in the stream, and they
were small and very shy. After traveling a
while, I discovered some large fish lying across
the stream, dead, and which smelled exceedingly
bad. I then saw the reason why so few fish
went up stream, and why they were so small
and shy; it was in consequence of those dead
ones lying across the stream.
	"This is the dream; and in the morning the
following interpretation was strongly impressed
upon my mind. These dead fish represent the
dead members scattered abroad, hither and
thither, who are considered as members of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
but are in fact but dead branches; they are
not complying with the revelations of God,
which command them to gather together to the
body. And as the branch of the vine cannot
gather sap and nourishment from the body
when separated from it, so the members of the
Church abroad, when commanded to gather to
the body, cannot receive life and intelligence
away from it, nor grow in the things of the
Kingdom of God, as is their privilege; and
such characters stand in the way of the Gos-
pel, and prevent many from obeying the Gos-
pel, through their neglect. I further thought
that it was not impossible that the bad smell
of the dead fish represented those people who
are to be met with, some with a chew of to-
bacco in their mouths, and some a pipe, and
others whose breath smells sufficiently strong
of whiskey to sicken a sober man when he
comes near them.
	"Much of our time was spent in endeavor-
ing to remove these obstacles, by persuading
the members to comply with the command-
ments given on the subject, that the channel
might be cleared and a way opened for more
live fish to pass up the stream; and we hoped
that we should yet see the stream full of live
fish, and the fishing places become exceedingly
good and live fish plentiful."
	The following interesting incident happened
in the family of Elder Sidney Rigdon, and I
heard him relate it upon the stand in the little
grove by the Temple. It was printed in the
Nauvoo Times and Seasons, where I read it a
short time since. It created quite a sensation
at the time among both old and young. Elder
Rigdon and family had been greatly afflicted,
and his body had become considerably ema-
ciated. For some time previous to this he had
been slackening in his duty. and his faith ac-
cordingly had weakened. His presence in the
congregation, sitting once more in his place by
the Prophet and his brethren, caused great re-
joicing among the Saints.
	He came, he said, not to renounce his faith
in Mormonism, as had been stated by enemies
and licentious presses, but to bear his testimony
of its truth, and add another to the many mi-
raculous evidences of the power of God, and
unfold unto the audience a scene of deep in-

[Column 3]
terest which had occured in his own family.
He had witnessed many instances of the power
of God in this Church, but never before had
seen the dead raised; yet this was a thing that
had actually taken place in his own family.
His youngest daughter, Eliza, who had been
very sick for a time, died. The doctor told
them that she was dead. After she had lain
in this state for a certain length of time, she
rose up in the bed. and in a very powerful and
supernatural tone spoke to the family to the
following effect: said she was going to leave
them, and had only come back to deliver her
message, and then depart again. The Lord
had said to her the very words she was about
to relate. She was so particular in relating it
that she would not allow them to leave out or
add one word. Before dying she had expressed
a great desire to live; but after her retnrn to
earth she expressed as strong a desire to go
back. She called her family around her and
bade them farewell. To her eldest sister she
said: "Nancy, it is in your heart to deny this
work; and if you do, the Lord says it will be
the damnation of your soul." To her sister
Sarah she said, "Sarah, we have but once to
die, and I would rather die now than wait for
another time." She told her sisters that the
Lord had great blessings in store for them if
they continued in the faith; and after deliver-
ing her message she swooned, but recovered
again. During this time she was cold, and the
only appearance of life was the power of speech.
She continued in this state till the following
evening—for the space of thirty-six hours—
when she called her father and told him that
the Lord had said to her, if he would cease
weeping for his sick daughter, and dry up his
tears, that he should have all the desires of his
heart; and that if he would go to bed and rest,
he should be comforted over his sick daughter,
for in the morning she should be getting better
and should get well. That the Lord had said
unto her, because that her father had dedicated
her to God and prayed to Him for her, that He
would give her back again. This ceremony
of dedicating and praying took place when she
was struggling in death, and continued to the
very moment of her departure; and she said
the Lord told her that it was because of this
that she must go back again, though she de-
sired to stay.
	She said concerning G. W. Robinson, her
brother-in-law, as he had denied the faith the
Lord had taken away one of his eye teeth; and
unless he repented He would take away another.
And concerning Dr. Bennett, that he was a
wicked man, and that the Lord would tread
him under His feet.
	This is but a small portion of what she re-
lated. It aroused Elder Rigdon from his mor-
bid state for a little season, but he soon sank
again into the same lethargy, from which he
never awoke until he heard of the martyrdom
of the Prophet, when he hurried back to Nau-
voo to claim the leadership of the Church.
Previous to this, having become weary in well-
doing, and having suffered enough, as he
thoughc, he had left his post and moved with
his family to Pittsburg.
			To be continued.


MRS. Matilda Joslyn Gage announces that
the National Citizen and Ballot Box, edited by
herself, Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Su-
san B. Anthony, is suspended with the October
issue for the present. The health of Mrs.
Gage, she says, is not adequate to the exhaust-
ing labor of editing the National Citizen, and
also to doing her part on the Woman Suffrage
history to which she must now devote herself.
The Alpha, edited by Mrs. Winslow at Wash-
ington, will be supplied to the subscribers of
the National Citizen, until their time expires.
Mrs. Gage will also be heard through that
paper.


-107™.<="" div="">W O M A N ' S   E X P O N E N T .							107

	
	WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 107div="">			WOMAN'S EXPONENT.			107


TRUE WIVES AND TRUE MOTHERS.

AFFECTIONATELY INSCRIBED TO MRS. KATE BROCKBANK.

Down, down in the valley
	Love leads them to stay;
True wives and true mothers,
	Their hearts must obey.
Oft, their lot 'tis to labor,
	Unpraised, unperceived;
'Tis ne'er comprehended,
	The good they achieve.
Ere the blessing is vanished,
	We prize not the boon;
When mother is missing,
	What home is in tune?

What self-abnegation
	Two little words cover;
How easy to speak them—
	True wife and true mother.
How hard is the title
	To earn and maintain;
Only won, only purchased
	By patience and pain.

'Tis easy to toil
	When the world is agaze,
When the mouths of the many
	Are speaking our praise,
When we know that the future
	Our record will write,
That as recognized heroes
	Our names will be bright;

But to bear up the burthens
	Of every day life,
To shoulder the duties
	Of mother and wife—
The numberless duties,
	That nobody sees;
What praise is awarded
	Such labors as these?

Take heart, weary mothers,
	Strive on, as you've striven,
Your task is the noblest
	To womanhood given.
Your mission is weighty,
	It also is grand,
For bodies and souls
	'Tis your charge to expand;
Yea, bodies and souls
	Must the mother prepare
For the battle of life,
	For its labor and care.

The duties of mothers
	Are often portrayed—
And suggestions are good
	When the weary they aid—
But tho' precepts were compounds
	Of wisdom and grace,
It takes love and labor
	To rear up a race;
It takes strength and courage,
	And patience uncommon;
It takes all the virtues;
	In short, it takes WOMAN.

Why forever remind them
	Of duty and care;
Who carry life's burdens,
	E'en all they can bear?
Would that mine were the pleasure
	To cheer you indeed,
For 'tis help and more leisure
	That mother's most need.

Take heart, faithful mothers,
	Be comforted even;
Your rest is to come—
	Your reward is in heaven.
Your works shall extend
	Past the portals of Time,
Resulting in blessings,
	Eternal, sublime.

No marble may mark
	Where your bodies shall rest,
Proclaiming your virtues
	Or talents the best;
No public may eulogize
	Souls so obscure;
But your households will bless you,
	And miss you, I'm sure.

S. L. City.	EMILY HILL WOMANSEE.


A DISTINGUISHED WOMAN.

ZINA D. H. Young.
		CONTINUED.
	In the journey of the Saints from Nauvoo,
it is well known to those acquainted with the
facts, there were several settlements made by
the way, resting places for the poor, weary ex-
iles: over one of these, called Mt. Pisgah,
Father Huntington was appointed to preside,
and his daughter, Zina D., with her two little
boys, remained with her father temporarily.
None but those who have experienced something
of the hardships of pioneer life, can comprehend
the many trials and difficulties bravely encoun-
tered by the women of the Latter-day Saints
during this exodus and their journeying to the
valley.
	Sister Zina very pathetically describes some
of the incidents which transpired at Mt. Pis-
gah. Sickness visited the camp; the Saints
were weary and worn with travel and over-
exertion, and fell an easy prey to the destroyer,
when once attacked with illness which pros-
trated them. There were no delicacies to be
procured for those in ill health; though loving
hands might minister, and all that tender care
could do might be done, but in many instances
it could not save, and one after another suc-
cumbed to disease and death. Sister Zina
says: "Sickness was so prevalent, and deaths so
frequent, that help enough could not be ob-
tained to make coffins, and many of the dead
were wrapped in their grave clothes and buried
with split logs at the bottom of the grave and
brush at the sides, that being all that could be
done for them by their mourning friends. Too
soon it became my turn to mourn. My father
was taken sick, and in eighteen days he died.
Like my dear mother, who died in the expul-
sion from Missouri, he died in the exodus from
Nauvoo. Sad was my heart. I alone of all
his children was there to mourn. It was a sol-
emn day at Mt. Pisgah when my father was
buried. The poor and needy had lost a friend,
the kingdom of God a faithful servant. There
upon the hillside was his resting place. The
graveyard was so near that I could hear the
wolves howling as they visited the spot; those
hungry monsters, who fain would have unsep-
ulchred those sacred bones! Those days of
trial and grief were succeeded by my journey
to Winter Quarters, where, in due time, I ar-
rived with my two little boys, and was warmly
welcomed by President Young into his family.”
	In Winter Quarters Sister Zina was engaged
much of the time among the sick, for, possess-
ing as she does  an eminent degree that deli-
cacy of sympathy which brings to the human
heart sweet consolation when under the most
painful afflictions, she found an ample field to
labor in, and by ministering to the spiritual
and temporal needs of the Saints, in those days
of severe trial and adversity, she engrafted
herself into the affections of the people with
whom she was associated, and the memory of
her good works will live in their hearts for
ever.
 The absence of the pioneers on their journey
to the Rocky Mountains was a time of great
anxiety to those who remained behind, and es-
pecially to those whose fathers, husbands and
brothers were members of that memorable
company. The sisters held regular meetings,
to pray and exercise faith for the pioneers. At
these meetings Sister Zina was a regular at-
tendant, and she is largely endowed with spir-
ituality, which qualifies her admirably as an
active worker in such a capacity. She has,
perhaps; as perfect a gift of interpretation of
tongues as any person in the Church, for al-
though her opportunities for education in lan-
guage have been limited, and she is not a poet
or rhymer, yet she gives the interpretation of
hymns, psalms and sacred songs in the most
musical and happy manner, without thought or
hesitation. There is something divinely beau-
tiful in thus rendering, by the gift of inspira-
tion, words uttered in an unknown tongue.
These seasons of refreshing among the sisters
helped them to endure the weary day and al-
most sleepless nights, while those they so ten-
derly loved were plodding the sandy plains,
wending their way through an unknown coun-
try to the then "promised land." After the
pioneers returned with the good news of their
wonderful success in finding a peaceful home
for the people of God, the homeless exiles, such
preparations as could be made were arranged;
every one was busy, and there was a little time
to visit or associate together, except in families.
	Sister Zina, with President Young's family,
left Winter Quarters in May, 1848, and shared
in the grand march to the mountains the privi-
lege of walking, driving team, cooking out of
doors, washing when camped near a river, and
in all the various hardships of camp life.
Happy and light-hearted, always ready to bless
and comfort others with kind words and cheery
smiles. President  Young and his family reached
the valley in September; his family remained in
wagons and tents until he could build shelters
from the inclements weather fast approaching.
On the hillside, just above and a little behind
where the BEE-HIVE house stands now, a row
of cottages was built of logs, comfortable and
shutting out the cold, though the dirt roofs
were scarcely protection from rain. In one of
these Sister Zina spent the first few years in
the valley; her time was almost entirely occu-
pied with household duties, for in those day
everything must be done at home, candles,
soap, starch, molasses and many other articles
were manufactured by the sisters; there was
little machinery of any kind. And then there
was carding, spining, dying, knitting, weav-
ing, besides the making and mending of cloth-
ing, in addition to ordinary household duties.
Sister Zina rather excelled in most of these
domestic pursuits, and her hands were always
busy. She has ever been an early rise, which
is a great advantage in all industrial occupa-
tions; still she found time to help others when
any were sick, or in need of a friend. In her
humble log cabin she enjoyed much domestic
happiness, for the touch of a woman's hand re-
fines and adorns the humble walls of the sim-
plest cottage of the poor where love dwells, as
well as the prouder, loftier mansions of the
rich. Peace and contentment reigned in these
quiet, unpretending homes of the Saints.
Here, too, an event occurred which gave
new zest to her home enjoyments; beneath this
rustic roof, on the 3rd of April, 1851, a beau-
tiful daughter was born to Sister Zina and
Brigham Young. The mother never considered
for a moment the hardship of childbirth under
these circumstances, for it bore no comparison
with other trying ordeals through which she
and her sisters had been called to pass. They
called the babe Zina, for its mother, and no
princess of royal blood was ever more fondly
beloved, or more tenderly cared for, than this
little one, for Sister Zina has ever been a de-
voted mother.
 Subsequently, the Lion House was erected,
the log row, as it was called, was no longer oc-
cupied for dwellings, and in that house was
Sister Zina’s home. Here her children grew
to manhood and womanhood, under the guid-
ing care and protection of a wise and loving
father and mother. Sister Zina has also, in
addition to her own family, had charge of sev-
erael other children. After the death of Mrs.
Clarissa Chase Young, to Sister Zina was com-
mitted the care of her three children, a son,
Willard, and two daughters, Maria and Phebe;
she took them to her heart and cherished them
as her own; the children returned to her affection
and grew up under her care and guidance.
To be continued.


108	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY.	DECEMBER 15, 1881.


[Column 1]
PEACE AND GOOD WILL.

	"Peace and good will towards all men." At
this season of the year, when Christmas is just
at hand, one is forcibly reminded of the message
the angel brought at the birth of the Savior,
whose advent is commemorated on this auspi-
cious day. How happy all might be if these
precious words were only practically echoed in
the daily lives of those who profess Christianity.
All the heartaches, scenes of sorrow and suffer-
ing would be more or less modified and soothed,
were mankind to follow the suggestion made by
the angel—"peace and good will towards all
men." Let the reader reflect—how is it with
those who aim to be the followers of the meek
and lowly One born in Bethlehem of Judea?
	The Chief Executive of the nation has just
issued his salutatory message. He touched upon
all the great national questions fairly perhaps,
but upon Utah and the Mormons he speaks em-
phatically, as determined to carry out measures
calculated to uproot the system Mormons have
established. He is mistaken in his views of the
matter, like many of his predecessors in office—
however, we shall see whether Congress will aid
the people in promoting peace and good govern-
ment in the Territory, or introduce strife and
anarchy. Peace is the motto of the true
Gospel banner introduced by the birth of Jesus.
There has been misery and wretchedness enough,
the result of wars and contentions; and by all
possible means, the most powerful potentate of a
free nation should seek to bind the people to-
gether under a banner of peace, instead of sow-
ing the seeds of injustice and oppression.
	Those who peril their lives, their all, to settle
new lands and increase the wealth and power of
any nation are usually fostered by that govern-
ment in whose interest these risks are incurred;
but for Utah, the desert reclaimed from sterility
by the Mormon exiles, there is no encourage-
ment, or symyathy with the people, who have
proven their loyalty to the Constitution again
and again. But now, of all times, when attempts
are being made to take from this people every
right and privilege dear to American hearts, how
magnanimous to have the sublime courage to
say, "Father, forgive them, for they know not
what they do."
	Looking from a natural standpoint, one would
think, from the bills being introduced into Con-
gress and the various anti-polygamy gold and
crimson petitions offered for the enforcement of
severe measures towards this people, that the
Mormons ought to fear and tremble; yet we see
no manifestations of this kind whatever. The
people trust in that God whom they are trying
to serve, and they have steadfast faith in His
promises. It seems strange that all the wicked
misrepresentations made by the opponents of
the Mormon faith should be so readily believed
by men who pride themselves upon statesman-
ship. There is always two sides to every ques-
tion, and both should be heard; but in too many

[Column 2]
instances judgment is formed upon the first hear-
ing, and all other testimony is rejected. But
stringent measures such as are being talked of,
the breaking up of family relations which now
exist, etc., will not only result in increased per-
plexity and compound multiplication and com-
plication of the difficult problem, which is too
abstruse for the solution of it by those who
only deal with it from an outward view.
	But at Christmas time this an unpleasant
topic, especially for the young. All disagreeable
feeling should be laid aside, and whatever the
future may have in store, the present teems with
plenty, and in the midst of such prosperity as the
Saints have been blest with the past season, peace
and happiness should be in every heart, at least
during the Christmas holidays. Let that
Christian charity which is long-suffering,
merciful and tender extend towards all mankind.
It should be a time of reconciliation and forgive-
ness; if any have unkindness in their hearts let
them banish it, and cherish only those feelings
which elevate and purify and ennoble the human
soul. This has been a season of unusual pros-
perity, although there has been some sickness;
yet taking it all in all there has been much to
rejoice over and to be abundantly grateful for,
and surrounded as this people are with blessings,
they should not forget to praise Him from whom
all blessings flow, and to remember the poor,
that blessings may be multiplied in future.


﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.
	ON Wednesday, Nov. 30, Mrs. M. I. Horne
and Louie Felt visited North Jordan and met
with the Primary Association. The programme
was rendered in a very creditable manner.
	“OUR Boarding House” at the Theatre re-
cently by the Home Dramatic Club was a com-
plete success in all respects. The piece is a very
humorous one, and the acting was well done, or
perhaps some parts were over.done; yet it was
extremely amusing. Those who are fond of
high comedy should by all means see “Our
Boarding House” performed. 
	WE had the pleasure of attending the Sisters,
Conference of Tooele Stake, Dec. 10, 11 and 12
in company with Prest. Eliza R. S. Smith.
Prest. H. J. Grant, Apostle F. M. Lyman and
Mrs. Rachel R. Grant were present, and many
excellent speeches were made and much good
instruction given by the brethren and sisters.
An account of the Conference in detail will be
published in our next issue.
	WE are very much afraid that Prest. Arthur
is treading on dangerous ground when he takes
away such offices from women as have been
granted to them heretofore. The leaders of the
Woman Suffrage party will not silently submit
to any such indignity, and in the coming con-
vention to be held in Washington January next
he will in all probability hear from them em-
phatically. In fact he has very likely got into
or very near to a hornet’s nest.
	CHRISTMAS is coming, as all the shop windows
testify. There has] never been such an elab-
ate display here of fancy goods, books, toys and
all sorts of articles suitable for Santa Claus in
his annual round as there is this season. Surely
all the little folks are going to be gladdened on
that glad day, and husbands, wives, fathers,
mothers, grand-parents, brothers, sisters, aunts,
uncles, cousins and relatives generally, as also
other friends, will certainly receive a call this
year that will make them remember "auld lang
syne.” 
	WE call the attention of our readers to the ad-
vertisement of Bro. Heman’s Bible Almanac for
1882, It is an unique little work, and is intended


to do good by calling to notice, in a silent way, a
passage of Scripture on each day in the year, and
by this means creating a desire in the mind to
search the book of all books, the Bible. There
are several subjects ably treated upon in this
little work, and it recommends itself well to
those who would be daily reminded of living
acceptable lives.
	ON Sunday, Dec. 4, in company with Sister
Eliza R. S. Smith, we visited South Jordan
Ward, where we met with the Primary Associa-
ciation at 10 a. m., Mrs. N. J. Oliver presiding.
The exercises were well rendered, the children’s
singing very good, and a marked improvement
was manifest. After the Sacrament services in
the afternoon, Bishop Wm. Bills announced that
the meeting would be in the hands of the sis-
ters. Mrs. Ann Holt, President of the Relief
Society of the ward, then made a few introduc-
tory remarks, and Sisters Smith and Wells each
addressed the congregation for a short time.
Bishop Bills expressed his great pleasure in the
day’s proceedings; felt blest with the teachings
given by the sisters.


PLEASANT GATHERING.

	Some of the most intimate friends of Mrs. M.
Isabella Horne met at her residence on the eve-
ning of Nov. 18, by invitation of her daughters,
who had ingeniously prepared this little surprise
for their mother, during her absence on a tour
through Wasatch Co. The party was in honor
of the anniversary of the lady's birth, and had
been carefully arranged, the guests convening
while she was purposely detained away on some
pretext. The girls had provided an elaborate
and delicious dinner, to which the guests did
ample justice. Among those who participated
in the enjoyments of the evening were Hon.
George Q. Cannon and wife, Hon. D. H. Wells
and wife, Hon. R. T. Burton and wife, George
H. Taylor, Esq., and wife, Sisters Eliza R. S.
Smith, S. M. Kimball, Marinda N. Hyde, E.
Howard, B. W. Smith, Jane Richardson, E.
Hales, S. J. Spencer and others beside the fam-
ily.
	The time was spent in social conversation, and
some good old-fashioned music and singing by
the sons and daughters of the family was ad-
mirably rendered, which was very enjoyable to
all. Towards the close of the evening, President
Cannon responded to a request of Mrs. Horne's
in a short speech, expressing the kind feelings
he entertained for the family, and referring to
the many agreeable associations of the past in
that house. Spoke of the sweet interchange of
feeling which existed among the Saints, and his
appreciation of such enjoyments. One after an-
other followed in a few words of congratulation
and good wishes, all expressing the kindliest
feelings for Brother and Sister Horne and their
amiable family. We add our congratulations to
those of her "dear five hundred friends," and
trust that her useful life may be prolonged, and
that she may yet reap an abundant harvest in
return for the good seed she has sown in Zion,
and that not only shall her husband praise her,
and her children rise up and call her blessed,
but thousands of others who are familiar with
her good works and labors among the people.
								AUNT EM.


LITTLE EDITH.

    Died on the San Juan River, New Mexico,
Nov. 8, 1881, of inflammation of the brain and
throat disease, Edith, daughter of Luther C. and
Mary Stewart Burnham.  Little Edith was born
in St. John's, Arizona, Oct. 3, 1880.--Com.

    "Death lays on her, like an untimely frost
     Upon the fairest flower of all the field."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿We deeply sympathize with the bereaved
parents in their sorrow for their dear little one,
but we know they believe firmly and look for-
ward hopefully to the morning of the resurrec-
tion, when they will receive little Edith again,
pure and spotless as they laid her away.


LITTLE TOMMIE.
				    ------
	Died in Salt Lake City, Thursday, Nov. 17,
1881, of diphtheria, after a severe illness of two
weeks, Thomas Edwin Wallin, aged nearly
three years.  He was the son of C. E. and Eliza
W. Wallin.  The mother departed this life in
August last, but little Tommie was affectionately
nursed and cared for by those who loved him
tenderly and who mourn for him sincerely. The
child's sufferings were most heart-rending, yet
he was brave as a man could be to the very last.
The little one was born in this city Dec. 24, 1878,
and was consequently three years old except a
few days.  The funeral was held on Friday, the
18th ult., at one o'clock, and the dear little one
was laid by the side of his mother and baby sis-
ter. He was a very affectionate child, and old
beyond his years—just such an one as might be
expected would be taken away early.

	“Does a mother's fond embrace
		Fold thee in that far-off land?
	Does a sister’s smiling face
		Greet thee in the angel band?"
							AUNT EM.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.

ON THE DEATH OF SISTER S. M. HEYWOOD.

Fold her hands peacefully, she's gone to her rest,
Like a tired, weary child, on its fond mother's breast.
Her sorrows are over, her trials are ended;
No more will the sunshine and shadow be blended.
			Only rest, sweet rest,
			With the blest, ever rest.

No more will her heart ache, she'll never shed tears,
For the love of her Father will calm all her fears;
Her record's been noble, a crown she has won—
Her life has gone out like a bright setting sun.
		Then rest, only rest,
		With the blest, ever rest.

Ours the anguish, the sorrow, the sigh,
The fast falling tears, when no one is by;
Hers the great gain, the peace and the joy—
A sweet rest in heaven, where nanght can annoy.
	Now rest, sister, rest,
	With the blest, ever rest.

Fare thee well, sister, we must bid thee goodby,
Till we meet thee again, where no one will die;
Oh, watch for our coming, come down to the gate—
And for that re-union we will patiently wait.
	For rest, sweet rest,
	With the blest, with the blest.

Kiss our dear loved ones—you knew them so well—
And give them the message that we cannot tell;
We remember each one—each link in the chain;
Oh, when shall we meet them, those loved ones, again?
		And rest, only rest,
		With the blest, ever rest.

Calmly and sweetly you've gone to your rest,
In honor and gladness joined hands with the blest;
Been true to the end, will receive the reward
Of life everlasting with Jesus the Lord.
	And rest with the blest,
	Forever rest.
							LYDIA D. ALDER.

	The loved and much lamented Mrs. S. M.
Heywood has gone from our midst.
	Sister Sarepta M. Heywood was born Nov. 22,
1823, and died Dec. 4, 1881, in Salt Lake City,
Utah. She was married to Joseph L. Heywood
May 29, 1841, in Beloit, Wisconsin; had six chil-
dren, three sons and three daughters. She had
followed one son and two daughters to the grave,

[Column 2]
and two sons and a daughter live to mourn her
loss.
	My first acquaintance with this estimable lady
was in 1842, in the city of Quincy, Illinois, not
far from the time when she joined the Church
of Latter-day Saints. On our first acquain-
tance a kindred feeling drew us together, and
that congeniality which ever exists between
kindred spirits has strengthened our love and
union through a long and very intimate acquain-
tance. To our mutual gratification, a kind Provi-
dence so ordered that when we located in Salt
Lake City our homes were on the same block,
where we have lived near neighbors and dear
friends twenty-eight years.
	When, in February, 1866, we were organized
into a Relief Society, (with the approval of our
Bishop) I chose her as my first Counselor in the
R. S. Board, and since that time we have worked
side by side in performing the many labors and
discharging the high responsibilities which de-
volved upon us, without a discordant feeling.
At all times and in all emergencies, she has been
a true friend and a wise counselor.
	As a Society, in her we have lost a firm sup-
port; and the poor, a good Samaritan in sickness.
She was an ever ready help in sorrow; her words
were like soothing balm, and her presence al-
ways cheering. But words are too weak to des-
cribe her noble worth—language too faint to ex-
press the feelings of my heart. And oh, may
God comfort the hearts of the bereaved children
of that kind and affectionate mother.
	In one of our Society meetings, a little pre-
vious to her last sickness, Sister Heywood made
the request of her sisters that, should she pass
away before us, we would sing "Weep, weep not
for me, Zion," at her funeral. The request was
complied with by the choir singing that beauti-
ful hymn in a very touching and impressive
manner, that came home to every heart; and
who could help weeping? In all that large and
crowded assembly apparently not one.
	Of Sister Heywood it may well be said,
"Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord."
She had "fought the good fight, she had kept
the faith," and had secured the blessed privilege
of "coming forth in the morning of the first
resurrection, crowned with glory, immortality
and eternal lives."
						MARINDA HYDE.

Truly a mother and a friend has fallen
	Into the arms of calm and needful sleep!
A Saint has passed beyond these scenes enthralling!
	And yet we cannot, cannot choose but weep.

We cannot sense the stern reality,
	The inevitable end,
That she has passed to immortality—
	That we have lost a friend.

Many will miss her gentle ministration,
	Her counsel, true and kind;
The love that sensed another's situation,
	And sought some balm to find.

The ready hand, the gleam of satisfaction
	That she some good could do;
The nameless, yet the sweet and pure attraction,
	That hearts towards her drew.

Rarely 'tis given unto creatures human
	To far exceed her worth;
A faithful, patient, dear, devoted woman,
	Too good to stay on earth.

Dark were the waters that her soul went under,
	The storms through which she passed;
So frail her body, one can hardly wonder
	She has succumbed at last.

And shall we think of her as dead? Nay; rather
	That she has gone to rest;
Entered the mansions where our royal Father
	Receives His loved and best;

					EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.


BIRTHDAY PARTY.
				-----
	Friday, Nov. 25, 1881, was the 67th anniver-
sary of Sister Rhoda A. Miller’s birthday, wife
of Bishop Reuben Miller; and the officers and
members of the Relief Society of Mill Creek,
wishing to express their respect for her as their
president, and appreciation of her labors in the
interest of the poor and other good works, ar-
ranged to give her a surprise party, and at 11
o’clock about one hundred of her friends met at
the ward meeting house, and from there pro-
ceeded to the residence of Sister Miller. The 
party was under the direction of her counselors
and the presiding teachers.
	An address written for the occasion was read
by the secretary, after which Sister Miller was
presented with a picture of the Presidency of
the Church and Twelve Apostles, with her
name and age and the names of those who pre-
sented it in letters of gold.
	The Bishop and Counselors being present by
invitation, were called upon to make a few re-
marks. The Bishop said he hoped they were
deserving of the respect shown them, it did him
good to see the sisters. Spoke of his health,
that his disease was one that might take him off 
at any time, and he was thankful that he had
been faithful in this Gospel. He was very much
affected and overjoyed by the presence of so
many of the members of the ward, and felt to
prize the picture very highly; he would not take
a thousand dollars for it if he could not get an-
other.
	Counselor Alexander Hill made some very
good remarks in honor of Sister Miller; said he
had been acquainted with her a great many
years, and had always found her a good, moth-
erly woman, ready to assist the poor and needy.
	Washington Lemon also made some very good
and instructive remarks.
	President R. A. Miller said the picture was
very nice, but her sisters were more dear to her
than anything else, and it made her feel good to
see their happy faces, and she felt grateful to
them for their good will, and felt to bless them
all with peace and plenty.
	We were then favored with some very melo-
dious music from the Mill Creek band.
	Tables were set with all kinds of delicious
food furnished by the ladies of the party. The
people were seated, and Bishop Miller pro-
nounced the blessing. After dinner was over,
all the food that was left (which was an im-
mense quantity) was packed up and sent to the
poor of the ward.
	The whole affair was kept a profound secret
from Sister Miller until the guests had assem-
bled.  The party was a complete success, and a
good spirit prevailed throughout.  In conclusion
we say, God bless Sister Miller, and may her re-
maining days on earth be spent in the same no-
ble and useful manner as her past life has been.
				NELLIE SPENCER, Sec'y.


﻿R.S.Y.L.M.I.A. AND PRIMARY
			   REPORTS.
				------
	The ladies regular semi-monthly meeting in
the 14th Ward Assembly Hall, held Saturday,
Nov. 5, was well attended. Minutes of the Y.
L.M.I.A. and P.A. were read by the young
secretaries, from the following wards: 21st, 20th,
11th, 8th and 10th P.A.; 3d, 11th and 19th Y.
L.M.I.A.
	President Horne made some encouraging re-
marks to the young secretaries; said she felt
proud of them aud the members of the Asso-
ciations they represented.
	Sister E.R.S. Smith occupied most of the
time. She spoke of the many duties of the sis-
ters, and the great necessity of living near to
the Lord in order to perform them in a proper
manner. Gave much counsel and instruction.
Referred to her journeyings among the people.
Spoke of the intention of the sisters to build a


[Column 1]
woolen factory in Sanpete County. At the
close of her address she blessed the sisters in a
very impressive manner.
	Sister Helen M. Whitney spoke of her exper-
ience in the past, her desire to be useful, the
testimonies she had received, her early teach-
ings, etc. The congregation sang "The Spirit of
God," etc. Benediction by Mrs. E. B. Wells.
				A. J. CROCHERON, Sec'y

	The meeting November 19 at the same place
was also well attended. Reports of Y. L. M. I.
A.were read from the 16th, 3d, 11th and 19th
Wards; P. A. from the 10th and 19th Wards.
	President Horne made the opening speech;
commenced by giving a brief sketch of her re-
cent visit to Wasatch Stake in company with
Sister E. Howard, and related some incidents
that transpired during their visits from place to
place.
	Sister Eliza R. S. Smith spoke of her journey
through the Southern settlements, of the pros-
perity of the Saints and the good condition of
the organizations. She had visited Payson,
Spanish Fork and Santaquin; at each of these
three meetings were held. At Goshen two
meetings, at Springville and at Provo three, and
after the other sisters returned she visited the
Fifth Ward, Provo, in company with Sister
Smoot. In all her labors she had been blest, and
everywhere had found precious, good sisters. In
closing her remarks Sister Elian blest the con-
gregation in the name of the Lord.
	Sister Ellen C. Clawson gave a brief account
of her trip to St. George, in company with Prest.
Taylor and party, and a beautiful description of
the Temple, and testified, as all do who visit it,
of the peaceful heavenly influence that pervades
that holy place.
	Sister Nancy A. Clark, President of Y. L. M.
L. A. Davis Stake, occupied  a few  moments in
speaking earnestly of the necessity of earning
an exaltation, and other relative subjects. Sis-
ter Mary Davis made a few good remarks. Then
followed reading of the minutes of a special
meeting of the officers of Y. L. M. I. A. of Salt
Lake City, held Nov. 12, at the residence of
Mrs. B. W. Smith.  Sang "Lord dismiss us."
Benediction by Mrs. E. S. Taylor.
				E. S. Taylor, Sec'y pro. Tem.

	The semi-monthly ladies' meeting in the 14th
Ward Assembly Rooms, Saturday, Dec. 3, was a
very interesting one. Minutes were read from
Y. L. M. I. A. and P. A. of several wards, fol-
lowed by interesting and instructive speeches
from Sisters Louie Felt, E. S. Taylor, E. How-
ard, J. Howe, E. C. S. Clawson, M. Steele and
M. I. Horne. These meetings are a great bene-
fit to the several organizations, for here express-
sion is given to the best thoughts of the speak-
ers in the most intelligent and able manner.
Subjects are lucidly treated upon that are calcu-
lated to promote the growth of the institutions
organized for the higher education of woman.

				WASATCH.
	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief So-
cieties of Wasatch Stake convened in Heber
City Hall, Nov. 11, 1881. Present on the
stand were President Emma Brown and her
second Counselor, Mary Daybell, Presidents of
the Heber Ward Relief Societies, Y. L. M. I.
A. and Primary Associations; also Prest.
Hatch, Bishop Murdock, Patriarch Hicken and
other brethren. We also had the great plea-
sure of having Sisters M. I. Horne and E.
Howard to visit and talk to us during our Con-
ference. After the usual opening exercises,
minutes of the last Conference were read and
accepted, also the reports of the various Relief
Societies, Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary Asso-
ciations, which were very favorable. The sev-
eral presidents of branch societies gave verbal
reports, which were very encouraging.
	Sister Horne gave us some excellent counsel.
Said the sisters should attend their meetings, it
is their duty; they should be faithful in teach-
ing their children the principles of truth,
which, if adhered to, will make them honor-
able members in the Church and Kingdom of
God. To see that our children are at home
nights, not roaming about the streets learning
things not calculated to improve their minds.
Made many other suggestions intended to leave
a good impression. Meeting adjourned until
two o'clock p. m.

[Column 2]
	Afternoon session; Singing. Prayer by
Bro. McGee. Singing. Verbal reports were
then given by the several presidents of the Y.
L. M. I. A. and Primary Assoiations. Sister
Howard gave some good counsel; said we
should always read good books, and pray to
our Father that we may always have His Spirit
to be with us to guide us in every action of
our lives. Exhorted the sisters to educate
their children in obedience and virtue, to read
all good books, and entreated them not to send
them to secretarian schools. Thought that
mothers should encourage their sons when
called upon missions, to be willing to respond.
Spoke on plural marriage; said it was a right
and true principle, and was revealed for the
improvement, refinement and salvation of the
human family. Told the sisters they should
all be united in their faith and work together
for the building up of the Kingdom of God,
and not follow too much after the fashions of
the world.
	Sister Horne instructed the sisters to store
up grain for the time of need. Said the Lord
has blessed us thus far, and if we try to do
right He will continue to bless us. Exhorted
the mothers to train their children in the fear
of God, and be punctual in sending them to
the Primary Associations.
	Prest. Emma Brown then thanked the sis-
ters for coming to visit us. Conference ad-
journed for three months. Singing, "Praise to
the man who communed with Jehovah. Bene-
diction by Prest. Hatch.
		MARY BRONSON, Sec'y.
		AVIS M. BRONSON, Asst. Sec'y.

		MANTI PRIMARY FAIR.
	Our Fair was held in the Meeting House on
Wednesday and Thursday, October 26 and 27.
At ten o'clock on Wednesday morning the fol-
lowing brethren made some remarks: Brothers
Brown, Kenner and Wareham. Sister Ware-
ham, President of the Relief Society, also
spoke a short time. Pres't. John Maiben was
also present. After which the Fair was de-
clared open by Sister Phoebe Maiben. There
were present at the opening, the Presidents of
both Primary Associations and their Counsel-
ors, also Stake President P. A., Phoebe Maiben,
and her Counselors.
	To begin and describe all that was exhibited
would be impossible. as the sight was so grand.
The first that drew our attention was a fine ex-
hibit of pastry, made by girls belonging to the
Association; in the midst of which was a stuffed
fox, owned by Brother Wm. A. Cox. There
was a nice web of cloth, spun by a girl aged
twelve years, and woven by another aged four-
teen years; a grand display of mottoes, worked
by girls of both Associations; a hood and muff,
made by a girl aged fourteen, were much ad-
mired; there was a good show of rugs and
quilts, and many other useful articles; one quilt
was donated to the Temple. The boys were
not behind, either; potatoes, corn, beets, squash
and fruits were in abundance; a covered foot-
stool, garden rakes, a door, hatchet, and several
other like things, were made by boys from eight
to fourteen years of age. Sister Weibye ex-
hibited some cocoons, which shows that the
sisters are working at the silk industry. The
most of the articles exhibited were useful, al-
though the ornamental showed well too.
	The general feeling expressed by the older
folks toward the Fair was good. The little
folks of the Association are happy to say it
was well patronized, as we were able to donate
ten dollars to help build the Tabernacle; the
rest being divided between the two Associations.
					GEORGE SCOTT.


110	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ISABELLA Beecher Hooker took part in the
discussions of the Social Science Association,
which convened at Saratoga in September.


FROM THE SANDWICH ISLANDS.

KOLOA KAUAI, Nov. 14, 1881.

	I left Laie two weeks last Friday and came
to Honolulu with the other brethren and about
one hundred of the natives; besides there were
about forty went by steamer. We left Laie at
6:30 o'clock, and rode over to Kahana for
breakfast, according to previous arrangement,
arriving there at 8 o'clock, and after partaking
of the fat things of Kahana, we rode on to
Hakipuu; got there at 10, where we were invited
in again, but not knowing of this before, rode
on to Kaneohe for dinner. There we had the
best native meal that I ever partook of; it was
mostly Haule food, pies. cake, chicken and the
like. The natives had their dinner out in a
bowery that had been built for the occasion.
	After ,dinner we resumed our journey, arriv-
ing at Honolulu about three o'clock- We all
rode into Honolulu in double file, Prest. H. H.
Cluff and our brethren leading. It was quite
a show. The next day our Conference began.
After our afternoon meeting was out we all
went down town, and while there the steamer
was signalled. If the town was ever in a bustle
it was then, for the King of the Islands was on
the steamer, and arrangements had been made
to form in procession and escort him to the
palace. They were not expecting him until
Monday, and had not got everything arranged
as they wanted it; but we all gathered as quickly
as possible and formed in procession, and as he
passed up the street we all fell into line and
marched up to the palace.	*	*	*
	Sunday we resumed our Conference again,
and on Monday they had the former proces-
sion over, as the other was arranged in such a
hurry that the committee was not satisfied.
We arranged again according to programme,
and passed by the doors of the palace, and
gave three cheers for King Kalakaua. Our
banner was the Eastern and Western hemi-
spheres, with the inscription, "Welcome home,
our beloved David, King, Circumnavigator
Laie Colony." This was the large one. The
next was a beehive with native inscription upon
it. The Relief Society had a banner also, giv-
ing the object of the institution. Our people
turned out well, and we made a good showing.
In the evening there was a torchlight proces-
sion by the fire brigade. It was grand, reach-
ing three blocks. Every one had a torch in
his hand, and the engines were all decorated
with lights. There are different nations in the
fire company; the whites had one, the natives
one, and the Chinamen one. There were flags
all over the streets, through which the proces-
sion passed, and a number of fine arches,
reaching from one side of the street to the
other were decorated in the finest style with
flags, ferns and boughs of different kinds. The
Chinamen had a very fine arch; it was on a
corner, and started from each of the four cor-
ners of the blocks. It was nicely arranged
with gaily colored prints of every description,
and wreaths of flowers, ferns and shrubs, and
a great many Chinese lanterns all over it, and
a very large one that revolved in the centre,
which cost $150; on each side of it was hung
the picture of His Majesty, about 13x16, and
mottoes of greeting on every side. Farther
up the street was another, not so gay and
showy, but neat and grand. It represented the
different countries the King had visited, and a
large ship on the ocean on one side of it and
the cars on the other. His soldiers made a
grand military display, also the brass bands;
the musicians play as well as any I ever heard,
that is the old band—this was the first appear-
ance of the younger band before the public.
They are all boys that would never go to
school, so they were made musicians of. The
laws are quite strict in regard to attending
school, so they were made musicians of. The
laws are quite strict in regard to attending
schools in this country, but are not so particu-
lar whether the children learn or not; but they


are obliged to go, or the officers are sent after
them.
	*	*	*	I spent my 22d birthday on
Laie. In the forenoon I was at work down at
the mill, but in the afternoon we that were not
working took a ride up in the gulch, and got
some of the finest oranges I have ever seen.
We brought down about a bushel, then took a
sea bath, and about 7 o'clock Benjamin Cluff
and Bro. Knell came down and told me that
they wanted me at Prest. Cluff's. When I ar-
rived there I found a native meal spread on
the floor in native style. It had been done in
honor of my birthday. Bro. Cluff said as this
was my first birthday on the islands, he thought
a native meal would be as appropriate as any-
thing; I must say I enjoyed it. The table was
laid out in the following manner: at the head
of the table was a dish of poi, and at the foot
a dish of pork, nicely cooked; there was also
one of raw fish and one of beef, also some
young onions. This is a great variety for a
native meal. Bro. Cluff gave me a nice silk
handkerchief, and Sister Cluff a book, "The
History of the Normans in Europe."
	There extracts are from a private letter
written by a young Elder to his parents.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 111


ON MARRIAGE.

	As woman's voice is being heard on various
subjects, I thought I would throw in my mite
with others of my sisters. It seems that the
subject of marriage is of great importance to
the youth of the Latter-day Saints, as well as
those more advanced in years. It is one of
the greatest ordeals placed upon man and wo-
man. Let us pause and consider, ere it is too
late, while we have the opportunity, and teach
it to our children, for as the twig is bent the
tree is inclined. Let the youth of the Latter-
day Saints understand that God has authority
on earth to marry, that will stand through
time and all eternity. An instance of the un-
certainty of life has brought to my mind many
reflections. How careful we should be not to
neglect those ordinances which it is our privi-
lege to perform while living here on this earth.
Life is uncertain, and the duties of to-day
should not be neglected. We, as mothers in
the Kingdom of God, should do all we can
with the rising generation to make them un-
derstand that those ordinances pertaining to
marriage should be performed here in the flesh,
in order to secure eternal life and exaltation;
for we are told by our Savior, there is no mar-
rying or giving in marriage in the world to
come. Let the Saints appear beyond the vail
with the proper wedding garment on; that will
permit them to pass by the angels and enter
into their glory.
	We had some very interesting remarks from
Apostle M. Thatcher and others here on this
subject, on the occasion of the funeral of Joel
A. Hinckley. His untimely death has cast a
gloom over this community, and we deeply
sympathize with his bereaved wife and friends.
							MARY HAWKS.


CORRESPONDENCE.

	DEAR EDITOR:—We have been favored
with a visit from our honored and esteemed
President John Taylor, and company. They
were the guests of President Erastus Snow,
who had just returned from an arduous trip
to Arizona. It was a time of rejoicing, as
this is the first time we have had the pleasure
of Prest. Taylor's company for four years; hope
to have more such visits, though we know "it
is a hard road to travel," but a change does us
good sometimes, if it is not of the most agree-
able character, and makes us appreciate the
good roads. After remaining here a few days,


the President and party left to visit the settle-
ments up the river, and return home by way of
Kanab.
	President Minerva W. Snow, with her Coun
selor, Anna S. Ivins, accompanied them as far
as Rockville, where they held meetings with
the Relief Societies, also at the settlements
they passed through on their way home; found
all doing well.
	All is peace and quiet here, with little to
vary the monotony of every-day life. The
weather is delightful, and were it not for the
freezing at night, we would hardly realize that
winter is approaching. The days are warm
and pleasant, no rain or snow, either of which
would be acceptable, as the dust in the streets
is several inches deep.
	Work is still going on in the Temple, which
keeps many busy, but it is truly "a labor of
love," and brings with it a satisfaction that we
are doing that for the dead which they did not
have an opportunity of doing for themselves.
	With kind regards, I remain your sister in
the Gospel.
	E. BENTLEY, Cor. Sec'y.
St. George, Nov. 26, 1881.


LETTER.

	October 29, 1881.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Dear Madaine—At the next Washington
Convention it is intended by the N. W. S. As-
sociation to make an unprecedented effort to
command the attention of Congress, and to se-
cure from that body the passage of certain
bills.
	Never has there been so favorable an oppor-
tunity to present our grievances, never so flat-
tering a prospect of securing their redress.
The question of woman's political status has
become an issue in many of the States. From
at least one-third of the States representatives
and senators will go up to the National Con-
gress conscious that their constituencies will be
called upon to decide some point of the suf-
frage question at home within the next twelve
or twenty-four months.
	With this knowledge, before going to Wash-
ington they must already have given some
thought to the problem of woman's relation to
the Government, and they will thus in a mea-
sure be prepared for its consideration.
	It is to be hoped that the proposition for a
XVIth Amendment will be passed by the
present Congress, as sixteen years have elapsed
since we first made our demand for National
Protection. Whether to be passed or again
rejected, such a proposition will, without doubt,
be submitted. It is moreover certain that an
attempt will be made to secure the appoint-
ment of a standing committee in both houses,
whose business it shall be to consider the peti-
tions and demands of women citizens.
	That the coming Convention may be so
wisely managed as to secure from Congress the
justice above indicated, it is desirable that a
committee of leading suffragists, representing
the different sections of the country, be sent to
Washington a fortnight preceding the date of
the Convention, to do the preliminary work
necessary to the best success of the meeting.
Before beginning their work at Washington it
is desirable that the committee have reliable
data as to the attitude of each member of Con-
gress toward the Sixteenth Amendment and
the Standing Committee. We therefore re-
quest you, either by correspondence or by per-
sonal interview with the Delegate from your
Territory, to secure such a knowledge of his
views as will enable you to fill out the enclosed
set of blanks. As it will be the duty of the
Chairman of the Executive Committee to col
late the information thus obtained, please for
ward the blanks to her address (May Wrigh


Sewell, 405 North Pennsylvania street, Indian-
apolis, Indiana).
	Upon the data to be thus secured, our suc-
cess this winter at the National Capital very
largely depends. Every report should be in
Mrs. Sewall's hands by December 15.
	Begging you neither to neglect nor delay a
response to this appeal, we are, most cordially,
	Yours for Equal Suffrage,
		ELIZABETH CADY STANTON,
				President N. W. S. A.
		SUSAN B. ANTHONY,
		MATILDA JOSLYN GAGE,
				Vice Presidents at Large.
		RACHEL G. FOSTER,
				Corresponding Secretary.
		MAY WRIGHT SEWALL,
			Chairman Executive Committee.


MOTHERS VERSUS DIPHTHERIA 

	In the life of watchfulness and care to which
mothers are called, there is no foe so dreaded
as diphtheria. His approaches are so stealthy,
his coming so unexpected, that almost without
warning, his cruel hand is at the throat of the
victim, and the tenderest love, the most watch-
ful care, the greatest skill, are often powerless
to loosen the fatal hold. Scientists tell us that
this disease is a poisoning of the blood; now
the blood may be poisoned either by bad food
or bad air. Bad food I do not believe to be
very common in this land of plenty; good
bread is the rule, and good meat is found occa-
sionally in nearly every home. Many mothers
oversee with great care the diet of their chil-
dren; the nourishing oat-meal porridge and
pure milk are carefully supplied, and few are
the children accustomed to any variety of food,
who do not see on some tempting dish the ban
of mother's disapproval. She takes the same
care to supply pure air; rooms are often aired,
and any intrusion of sewer gas, or anything
else of a hurtful nature, is vigilantly guarded
against in the home.
	But there her power ends; her children spend
a large proportion of their waking hours in
school, but the tender care which elsewhere
surrounds them day and night cannot enter
those crowded portals. Nowhere is that care
more needed. Enter the schoolroom which the
city provides for your little ones, near the close
of the session; as you open the door, coming
from the pure outer air, you almost gasp for
breath. Here are perhaps sixty little children,
many of them wearing clothes not only soiled,
but filled with the mingled odors of their poor
homes, and their bodies, perhaps never thor-
oughly bathed since their babyhood. What a
volume of pure air it must take to replace that,
poisoned by the impurities thrown off, not only
by such bodies, but by sixty pairs of lungs!
One large schoolhouse in Boston, Chauncy Hall,
justly claims to be thoroughly ventilated; but
this result is accomplished at such a large ex-
pense, that we can hardly expect the system to 
be employed in the public schools. A cele-
brated writer on sanitary subjects is quoted in
the Journal of Education as saying that chil-
dren ought never to be kept through an entire
session in one room; the air becomes in a short
time unfit to breathe. I know that efforts are
made to keep the air pure by opening windows
at intervals, but such means cannot accomplish
much where the rooms are so crowded. In ad-
dition, the presence of water-closets in the base-
ment is sometimes quite evident to the visitor
upstairs. In my own neighborhood, an epi-
demic of diphtheria was traced directly to the
defective sanitary condition of a primary school
house; the condition of the building was im-
proved; but homes made desolate, and parents' 
hearts sorely wounded, remain to bear witness
to the evil. I once saw a class of little chil-
dren leaving school at the end of the afternoon
session; among them I recognized a dear child,


an only daughter and the idol of her home;
her face had an unhealthy flush, and as she
walked slowly homeward in the declining light
of the short day, I wished that instead of be-
ing confined all day in the close school room,
she might be playing out of doors in the fresh
air. In a few a weeks I heard the story of her
death from diphtheria, accompanied by an ex-
pression of wonder that that disease should
have attacked her in her healthful home; but
the cause did not seem so mysterious to me.
	But not only should the air in the school
room be pure, but children should be confined
there fewer hours. A wise physician; who had
attended a little boy through a long attack of
illness, impressed upon his mother, when he
began to recover, the necessity of his being
much in the open air. "But," objected the
mother, "he is subject to sore throat, would it
be well to send him out in all weather?" "If
the weather is very bad, it may be necessary to
keep him in a day, but let him be out all the
more the next day to make up for it." So often
was this advice repeated, that the mother could
not but follow it, and now the boy in his eighth
year is stout and strong, careless of fatigue,
throwing off easily any cold or slight indispo-
sition; he has never been to school a day in his
life, but spends an hour a day by his mother's
side learning his simple tasks, and nearly all
the rest of the day is out of doors. How dif-
ferent it is with a child who is sent to school
before the sun is very high, in these short win-
ter days. He must be in his seat, and, with
the exception of the intermission for dinner, is
not released until the sun is near its setting.
Surely our young children need more play-
time out of doors.
	Another thing closely affecting the health of
children in school is the amount and kind of
study required from them. I am told that
children between six and seven are expected to
answer promptly such questions as this: "Add
two-thirds of six and three-fourths of eight."
A mother reports to the Journal of Education
the really appalling task her daughter was re-
quired to commit to memory at home; and
mother of a young girl in the higher grades
does not feel the natural anxiety for her daugh-
ter's health, at that critical age very much in-
tensified by the mental work and nervous
worry caused by her efforts to keep up with
her class?
	Mothers, are you contented to have no voice
in determining measures and methods which so
much affect the health of your children? Will
you give up entirely to a body of men, whom
you have not chosen; that responsibility which
you would be jealous of giving up even to the
child's nearest friend next to yourself? Have
you not interest enough in these vital questions
to take the trouble, and submit to the small
expense of voting for school committee? With
the united vote of the women, what might not
be done for the schools? A board of men and
women might be chosen who would care for the
children as they never have been cared for, and
never can be cared for otherwise; but the num-
ber of women now voting is too small to be
felt.							F. E. B.
	—Woman's Journal


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MISCELLANEOUS

	MOTHER OF PEARL.—Mother-of-Pearl is
chiefly obtained from the pearl oyster—Melea-
grina Margaritifera—which is found in the
Gulf of California, at Panama, Cubagua, Cey-
lon, Madagascar, Swan River, Manila and the
Society Islands. The black-lipped shells from
Manila are most highly prized. The Society
Islands furnish the silver-lipped sort, and Pan-
ama the "bullock" shells. The peculiar and
varied tints exhibited by mother-of-pearl is due
to the structure of its surface, which, owing to


the great multitude of minute grooves upon it
—often many thousands to the inch—decom-
poses the light that falls upon it and reflects
different hues.

	SLEEP FOR CHILDREN.—There is no dan-
ger that children can sleep too much. The
old proverb, "He who sleeps eats," is illustrated
in those little ones who sleep most. Wakeful
children are almost always peevish, irritable
and lean. If they can be induced to sleep
abundantly, they are quite likely to become
good-natured and plump. Their sleep should
be, as much during the hours of darkness as
possible, and therefore it is better that they
should go to bed before sunset to have their
sleep out, than to lie long after sunrise in the
morning. It is well to let any healthful grow-
ing child or young person sleep until he wakes
himself, and give him such variety and amount
of out-door exercise as shall make him glad
when bed-time returns.

	IGNORANCE.—Probably there is no quality
more efficient in dispelling ignorance than the
courage which dares to confess it. The child
learns fast, simply because he has no self-
conscious fear of being thought uninformed.
He asks all manner of questions without any
qualm of misgiving, and exposes his own defi-
ciencies without any feeling of shame or dis-
tress. It is by his free and eager inquiries
that he improves so rapidly. Were he afraid
to show his ignorance, no one could help him
out of it. The enforced school lessons would
comprise nearly the whole of his education,
and even they could not be adapted to his
individual mental needs. As it is, every genial
and kind-hearted person with whom he comes
in contact is interested in adding to his stock
of knowledge. The same privilege might be
enjoyed by the adult, did not a feeling of shame
prevent him from seeking knowledge in the
same natural and simple way. But, as the
years pass, he comes to feel that the confession
of ignorance will expose him to ridicule, or
contempt, or censure, and he therefore hides it
under whatever pretext he can find.


"WILD FLOWERS of DESERET."

BY AGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.

A BOOK OF POEMS, 240 PAGES.  SUBJECTS: RE-
ligious, Sentimental, Humerous, Domestic, Historical,
Quaint and Pathetic. Leather, $1.50; Cloth, $1.35.
Postage free.  Address: Mrs. A. J. Crocheron, Box 419 Salt
Lake City.  Send Money by P. O. Order or Registered Letter.

JUST ISSUED
BY J. H. HEMAN,
Salt Lake City, Utah.
BIBLE ALMANAC 
FOR 1882.
(Second Year.)
15 cts. per copy.
A liberal discount will be allowed to Canvas-
sers.
A few copies of lasty year's Almanac for sale
at the same price.

NOTICE.
HAVING PROCURED A MANNIKIN CHART SPE
cimens, etc, I am now prepared to give instructions
in the art of Obstetrics and other branches connected there-
with. My class will open Nov. 1st, 1881.  Those wishing to
join the class will please communicate with me at once, it
being necessary to send east for books.  Terms: Tuition, [--]
Lessons, $30; books, three in number, $12. Address,
E. R. SHIPP, M. D., Salt Lake City.
OFFICE and RESIDENCE in Contributor building first door
north of Z. C. M. I.

Z. C. M. I.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES, AND SLIPPERS.
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obe i n the West. Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

FOR SALE.

Home-Made SILK,
AT
OUTLER'S COMMISSION STORES.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WILL PAPER
AND
BABY CARRIAGES
75, 77, AND 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets, Brown Yarns, Cotton Batting,
Flannels, White Yarns, Wool Batting,
Shawls, Colored Yarns, Brooms,
Linseys, Cassimers, Washboards,
Jeans, Tweeds, Bruches, Etc., Etc.

PALACE OF FASHION, No, 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
MRS. C. E. DYE,
Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet.  Also, a nice selection in 
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
shades and stripes.  Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches.  Good Work Guaranteed!

F. AUERBACH AND BRO.
HAVE
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 and 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
Spring and Summer Goods.

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER AND STEAM FITTER.
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice.  Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 10.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1882.	No. 15.


THEN AND NOW.

On holidys and such like festive times,
	We gather up the shreds of other years,
And sometimes weave them into dainty rhymes,
	Albeit dotted, not with ink, but tears;
For we recall the bitter and the sweet—
	Dark lines, you know, make pictures more complete

May be we hide these fancy sketches fair,
	From other eyes in the securest place;
And all the while a smiling face we wear,
	That e'en our friends a vestige may not trace
Of that we hold so sacred and apart,
	Entwined within the tendrils of the heart.

It m[--] be more of sorrow, than of bliss,
	No matter, 'tis a link in love's dear chain,
A "part and parcel" of that happiness
	Which often comes through the severest pain.
We know, perhaps, how years have sanctified
	The secret which so jealously we hide.

But ah, methinks I'm dreaming when I say,
	So many years, and oh, so long ago!
It only seems to me but yesterday,
	And yet 'tis longer far, I can but know,
For many dim old pictures do I find—
	Historic relics, crowded in my mind.

Perchance it would be well to illustrate
	Some of these histories at the present time;
I do not know why one should hesitate,
	As old things now are reckoned "half sublime."
But if we tell old stories o'er again,
	Retouch them carefully with modern pen.

Yes, there are many critics now-a-days,
	Who pick in pieces what they could not do,
And seldom volunteer a word of praise,
	E'en though the work is beautiful and true.
One need be brave, if he would truth rehearse,
	A real story, polished up in verse.

Sure, I've been wand'ring, if I did not dream,
	Over the hills, and very far away;
And I'm afraid its not a fitting theme
	I've chosen for the happy New Year's day;
For I've been thinking of deserted halls,
	With faded garlands hanging on the walls.

Well, let us welcome in "the glad New Year,"
	For there is much to make it bright and gay,
And banish from us every doubt and fear,
	And live within the present, just to-day,
And like the modest lilies, take no thought
	With what the uncertain future may be fraught.

But trust in Him who doeth all things well,
	Knowing His power can guide the helm of State,
Can bring forth truth though hidden in a well,
	And e'en confound the wisdom of the great.
He leads His chosen ones in pleasant ways,
	And promises the righteous length of days.

	EMILE


[Column 1]

THE DUCHESS OF ORLEANS.

BY M. J. TANNER.

	Parallel, but not contemporary, with the
Empress Josephine of France is the character
and destiny of the Duchess of Orleans. Both
were noted for the beauty and attractiveness of
their personal appearance, and for the strength
and purity of their character. Both enjoyed
the height of prosperity and happiness, and
felt the depth of sorrow and affliction. Jose-
phine's destiny was capricious, and constantly
attended with light and shadow. In the depth
of her sorrow and affliction there was a buoy-
ancy of spirit which sustained her and caused
her to see something of hope or resignation,
even though her biographers seem to have no

[Column 2]

account of her piety, and attribute her actions
solely to a noble self-consciousness of purity
and strength of character. In the height of
her prosperity, in the zenith of her glory and
honor, she felt the instability of human happi-
ness, and sorrow and misfortune were constantly
threatening to overwhelm her. From her early
attachment to the young English nobleman to
her banishment from the throne of France, her
life was a series of joys and disappointments,
triumphs and misfortunes, wherein the sweet-
ness of her disposition, the soundness of her
judgment and the generosity of her heart were
constantly demonstrated.
	The Princess Helena Louise Elizabeth of
Mecklenburg, afterward Duchess of Orleans,
was born on the 29th of January, 1814, which
was the year of Josephine's death. They mar-
ried into the rival houses of France, both of
which succumbed to the terrors of revolution
and died in exile; and they lived to witness
and share the misfortunes of the royal families.
Helena, unlike Josephine, was reared in an at-
mosphere of purity and religious devotion
trained in the Lutherean tenets, and surrounded
with every care which love and wisdom could
bestow. Although her mother died when she
was very young, her place was supplied by a
wise and affectionate stepmother, a cousin of
her mother, who devoted her time to the train-
ing of the two orphan children, Helena and
her brother Alfred, who died while yet a young
man. This was the first sorrow of Helena's
life and was never forgotten; although such
sorrow is sacred and sanctifies the soul, and the
buoyancy of youth cannot long be broken, al-
though death should rob it of some of the ob-
jects of its devotion. Being of a pliant, kind
disposition, naturally obedient and pious, with
a cheerful nature, cultivated by judicious train-
ing, what was lacking to make her life beauti-
ful? The position in which she was born and
the circumstances attending her, gave ample
opportunity for bringing her to the notice of
the world.
	In 1837 she was married to Ferdinand Phil-
lippe, Duke of Orleans, crown prince to the
throne of France. After the fall of Napoleon
the house of Orleans had again ascended the
throne. Ferdinand was a handsome, intellec-
tual man, honored and loved by all who knew
him. The good report of him and his many
good qualities had caused her to admire his
character before she met him, and love, the
fickle god, who is so little consulted in the
union of royal families, showered upon them
his choicest blessings. She was loved and rev-
erenced, not only by the family, but the coun-
try of her adoption, and she gave her best feel-
ings in return, If not at the zenith of power,
she had all that constitutes true happiness, as
one after the other her two sons, Paris and
Robert, were born. The sacred ties of wife
and mother bound her to her new home, and
the throne of France was in the prospective.
She often wondered if she had not more than
her share of happiness, and feared lest in the
exuberance of her spirits she might forget her
duty to God. There was nothing to cloud or
mar her happiness, until the sudden death of
her husband, in the prime of his useful and
noble manhood, caused by a fall received in
jumping from his carriage while the horses were
running away. His death is spoken of by his-
torians as a loss to France, as well as to his
family; for it was thought that the political
troubles would never have assumed the propor-

[Column 3]

tions they afterward did, if he had lived to aid
the king with his wise counsel and co-opera-
tion.
	The loss of her husband was a shock from
which she never fully recovered; but while
striving with God for resignation, she gave her
closest attention to the rearing of her children,
procuring for them the best masters, and train-
ing them for the positions they were expected
to fill. A few years passed away, when the
spirit of revolution was once more manifested.
The fiery impetuosity of the populace, as they
clamored for a republic, overawed the king,
and after an ineffectual attempt to hold his
power, he fled for his life. The young Duchess,
with her two children, after a vain attempt to
hold the crown for her son, was obliged also to
flee from the demons who were thirsting for
royal blood. Separated from the royal family,
and for a while from her youngest son, she en-
dured much hardship before reaching a place
of safety. Her father was dead, but her
mother, the Grand Duchess, met her and of-
fered her a refuge at Esinach, in Germany,
which she gladly accepted. Added to delicate
health, she had many trials and sorrows to en-
dure. The situation of her country, harassed
by war and rapine, her friends and associates
robbed and exiled, suffering poverty and hard-
ship in foreign lands, their property confiscated
and their families in want. These were the
pictures constantly presented to her mind, to
add to the poignancy of her own grief and
suffering. Torn from a home of ease and lux-
ury, separated from her hnsband's family, be-
tween whom and herself there existed the
warmest attachment, and exposed to hardship
and poverty so extreme that a cup of tea was
a luxury seldom indulged in, she was yet cheer-
ful, and sought to alleviate the sorrows of
others instead of dwelling upon her own. She
clung to her children, who were a constant
source of happiness to her, as well as a diver-
sion from solitude, although anxiety for their
future often oppressed her. After many delays
she received her dowry, which enabled her to
proceed with their education, and she attended
strictly to their religious training. According
to the king's wishes, they were instructed in
the Roman Catholic Church, although she her-
self was a Protestant. She lived to see them
on the threshold of manhood, they being about
seventeen and nineteen years of age. She
died in 1858 at Richmond, in England, where
she had made her home, in order to be near
the royal family. Honored and loved by all
who knew her, her name is handed down as a
testimonial of goodness and beauty.


AMONG the persons who recently received
the decoration of “Palmes Acadamiques” from
M. Jules Ferry, the French Minister of Pub-
lic Instruction, were seven women; those in-
cluded Mme. de Ujfavy, who accompanied her
husband on his mission through Central Asia.

	To his tragedy of "Mary Stuart” (Chatto
and Windus) Mr. Swinburne has prefixed the
following dedication: “I dedicate this play, no
longer the first part of the trilogy which it
completes, to the greatest exile, but simply to
the greatest man of France; to the chief of
living poets; to the first dramatist of the age
to my beloved and revered master -- Victor
Hugo.


________________________________________________________________________


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
________________________________________________________________________


SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO
				------
	 BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
				------
	For a long time there has been a secret
something whispering, “Publish to the world
not only the principles of your faith, but a
true history of facts concerning the injustice
done to an innocent people, and the trials and
sufferings which they have endured from the
world, because they would not deny their faith
in revelation. Publish them upon the house-
tops, that they may reach the ears of the just
and the honest in heart in all nations.” And
I ask, is this not a duty devolving upon the
sisters, in Zion as well as the brethren, who
were partakers of their injustice, and therefore
living witnesses against them? Should we not
write them, to be handed down to our children
and all future generations, that they may know
the true history of those who endured all things
which their enemies saw fit to place upon them,
for the sake of establishing this work upon the
earth.
	Having lately enjoyed the privilege of look-
ing over my father's papers and journals, which
had lain undisturbed ever since his death, I
cannot express the joy I felt in finding among
them the long-desired treasures—my father’s
and mother’s letters—which I had feared were
no longer in existence. Many of them were
written when I was very young and during the
deepest trials of their faith, the reading of
which has awakened the memory of a thousand
scenes and associations that would have re-
mained buried in oblivion, had it not been for
these records, which, to me, are more precious
than gold.
	A letter written by the Prophet Joseph and
his brethren while in Liberty jail, Missouri,
was among my father’s papers, and a portion
of it being as appropriate to-day as then, I will
copy a few lines:
				LIBERTY JAIL, Jan. 10, 1839.

BROTHERS H. C. KIMBALL AND B. YOUNG:
	“Joseph Smith, Jr., Sidney Rigdon and Hy-
rum Smith, prisoners for Jesus’ sake send greet-
ing.	*		*		*		*		* 				
	“Brethren, fear not, but be strong in the
Lord and in the favor of his might. What is
man, that the servant of God should fear him?
or the son of man, that he should tremble at
him?  Neither think strange concerning the
fiery trials with which we are tried, as though
some strange thing had happened unto us. Re-
member that all have been partakers of like
afflictions. Therefore rejoice in our afflictions,
by which we are perfected, and through which
the Captain of our salvation was perfected also.
Let your hearts and the hearts of all the
Saints be comforted with you, and let them re-
joice exceedingly, for great is our reward in
heaven; for so persecuted the wicked, the Pro-
phets which were before us.
	America will be a Zion to all that choose to
come to it, and if the churches in foreign coun-
tries wish to come, let them do so.		*	*
	“Brethren, pray for us, and cease not till
our deliverance comes; which we hope may
come. We hope, we say, for our families’ sake.
Let the Elders preach nothing but the first
principles of the Gospel, and let them publish<of the’="" gospel,="" and="" let="" them="" publish'="" .'="" our="" afflictions,="" tho="" injustice="" cruelty="" thereof="" upon="" the="" hilltops.="" write="" it,="" pub-="" lish="" it="" in="" all="" papers="" where="" they="" go;'="" charge="" them'particularly="" this="" point="" “brethren,="" we="" remain="" yours="" hope="" of="" eter-="" -nallife,="" ai="" boy...a:oseph="" smith,;.="" op="" ,v?="" 11;,="" sidney="" higdon,'="" il="" nw="" hyrum="" smith.”-="" -----="" whereis="" there="" any="" other="" people="" who’would.="" endure'="" tribulation,="" or="" think="" heedful="" to'make="" hsuchiacrificea="" through="" life.for="" thesak'eof1;="" vj="" iojoi="" —'.y.-ii="" 'j:="" ;(="" i="" ui="" in'oicom="" oj="" .......................................="" -ouh="" -="" life="" to="" come?="" ministers="" different="" creeds="" "="" have="" picked="" out="" just="" such="" passages="" as="" could="" turn="" into="" a="" proper="" shape="" suit="" them-="" selves,="" oi="" their="" hearers—preaching="" more="" heads="" than="" hearts—pandering="" popu-="" lar="" feeling,="" bring="" popularity="" ana="" dollars,="" though="" bible="" (which="" profess="" believe)="" lays="" down="" but="" one="" rule="" for="" mankind="" walk="" ih,="" points="" road="" heaven,="" these="" are="" laid="" so="" plain="" by="" savior,="" that="" “a="" man,="" fool,need="" not="" err="" .therein.?’="" prejudice="" the,="" various="" .sects="" against="" mormons="" was="" same="" then="" ,ag="" is.="" to-day,:="" hundreds="" were="" heard="" say="" they’had.="" never="" known="" joseph="" smith,="" he="" false="" pro-="" phet="" ought="" to.="" die,="" pf="" pome,="" across="" him="" would="" kill="" soon;="" they,="" rattlesnake;="" if="" mormops="" .did="" renounce="" doctrine="" wouldexter-="" minate="" drive;="" from="" country,="" when="" asked.what="" had="" mormons,.the="" answer="" was,="" with="" an="" oath,="" “they="" believe="" joe,="" smith="" book="" mormon,="" and”="" with1="" another="" “we="" joe="" be="" ,="" a,="" d-—d="" rascal.”="" is="" sample="" ,th?="" .present="" toleration="" inhuman="" conduct="" towards="" little="" handful="" under="" .republican="" government,="" professors,="" christianity="" who="" pre-judge="" enjoy="" listening="" to,="" .every,="" falsehood="" latter-day="" saints,="" like="" again="" drive,us="" our.,homes;,="" will="" find.it="" mpre="" difficult.="" task,="" ifc;="" happens="" (this="" time)="" first:="" set-="" tlers="" and.="" prior="" tight,="" which="" intend="" hpld="" .and="" maintain="" majority,="" thej="" world="" seem="" have,="" chosen,to="" jn="" broad-="" road.="" jeadeth="" destruction.="" gate="" too="" straight="" them,and="" way="" too,="" narrow,="" reason,="" hut="" few="" find="" eternal="" life.="" my="" father="" left="" us="" go,="" on,="" his="" second="" mission,="" made="" mother="" promise="" jo..write="" every="" particular="" concerning="" our.situation,="" feel="" prompted="" copy="" a.portiod="" her="" first="" letter,="" dated="" sept21,1839.="" gives="" fair="" description="" condition="" families="" elders="" commerce,="" illinois,="" go="" .forth="" obedience="" command="" almighty,="" preach,="" gospel="" foreign="" nations.="" “my="" dear="" husband="" :="" weak="" trembling="" hand="" attempt="" lines,="" agreeable="" your="" request,="" you="" know="" how="" do,="" very="" poorly,="" assure="" you.="" feelings1="" don’t="" am="" perfectly="" reconciled,="" to"="" going="" away,="" must="" &="" trial="" faith="" before.="" day="" home="" sick="" ag="" ever="" experienced.="" pain="" back="" head="" almost="" intolerable—no="" doubt="" worse="" on="" account="" my'="" much="" weeping;="" did="" weep,="" after="" left,="" distress="" great="" not.think="" else.="" william="" mourned="" cried="" about="" day,="" bad="" chill="" evening.="" sister="" bentley="" stayed="" me="" day;="" she="" sick,="" me."="" fanny="" dort="" came="" over="" night="" me.="" i,="" alone="" while="" before="" she:="" came.="" ;="" crawled="" bed="" bowed="" lord,="" plead="" give,="" ‘a="" good="" night’s="" rest,="" so;="" assured="" did.="" forget="" pray="" next="" morning="" felt="" free="" pain,="" dizzy-headed="" without="" staggering.="" helen="" able="" do="" anything,="" obliged="" crawl="" around="" chores,="" wash="" for.="" babe.="" no="" help="" lfttle="" heber,="" spoil="" overdone="" brought="" chill,="" afternoon,="" rested="" last.="" night;="" npt‘been="" anything="" toayi.t="" was.="" taken'="" morning,="" 'with="" shake,arid="" shook="" foran="" hour="" half="" hard="" ever,="" -loqoiq="" edi="" sraii="" uoen="" bin?="" widuoif="" saw="" body="" life,="" weltered="" un-="" der="" fever="" aud="" extreme="" until="" night.="" has="" hardest="" number="" days.="" brother="" rogers="" been="" here="" medicine,="" done="" good,="" what="" know.="" haye="" get="" me,="" comfort.="" moved="" here,="" but'="" feeble,="" hardly="" -her="" own="" work.="" sheris="" y.ery-="" kind,;and="" glad="" doctor="" abfc.="" well="" tbq.timehut.is="" able,="" do;some="" chores="" to-day.="">
our afflictions, the injustice and cruelty thereof,
upon the hilltops.  Let them write it, and pub-
lish it in all the papers where they go; charge
them particularly upon this point.
	"Brethren, we remain yours in hope of eter-
nal life,
					JOSEPH SMITH,
					SIDNEY RIGDON,
					HYRUM SMITH."

	Where is there any other people who would
endure tribulation, or think it needful to make
such sacrifices through this life, for the sake of
the life to come?  Ministers of different creeds
have picked out just such passages as they
could turn into a proper shape to suit them-
selves, or their hearers -- preaching more to their
heads than to their hearts -- pandering to popu-
lar feeling, to bring popularity and dollars,
though the Bible (which they profess to believe)
lays down but one rule for mankind to walk
in, points out but one raod to heaven, and these
are laid down so plain by our Savior, that "a
man, though a fool, need not err therein."
	The prejudice of the various sects against
the Mormons was the same then as it is to-day.
Hundreds were heard to say they had never
known Joseph Smith, but he was a false Pro-
phet and ought to die, and if they could come
across him they would kill him as soon as they
would a rattlesnake; and if the Mormons did
not renounce their doctrine they would exter-
minate or drive them from the country.  When
asked what they had against the Mormons, the
answer was, with an oath, "They believe in Joe
Smith and the Book of Mormon, and" with
another oath, "we believe Joe Smith to be a
d--d rascal."  This is a sample of the present
toleration and inhuman conduct towards a
little handful of people under a Republican
government, and by professors of Christianity
who pre-judge and enjoy listening to every
falsehood against the Latter-day Saints, and
would like to again drive us from our homes;
but they will find it a more difficult task, as it
happens (this time) that we are the first set-
tlers and have a prior right, which we intend
to hold and maintain.  The majority of the
world seem to have chosen to walk in the broad
road which leadeth to destruction.  The gate
is too straight for them, and the way too narrow,
and for this reason but few find eternal life.
	When my father left us to go on his second
mission, he made mother promise to write to
him every particular concerning our situation,
and I feel prompted to copy a portion of her
first letter, which was dated Sept. 21, 1839.
It gives a fair description of our condition and
of the families of the Elders who left them in
Commerce, Illinois, to go forth in obedience to
the command of the Almighty, to preach the
Gospel to foreign nations.

"MY DEAR HUSBAND:
	"With a weak and trembling hand I attempt
to write a few lines, agreeable to your request,
to let you know how we do, which is very
poorly, I assure you.  As to my feelings, I
don't know but I am perfectly reconciled to
your going away, but I must say I have a trial
of my faith such as I never had before.  The
day you left home was as sick a one as I ever
experienced.  The pain in my back and head
was almost intolerable -- no doubt the pain in
my head was worse on account of my much
weeping; but I did not weep after you left, for
my distress was so great that I could not think
of much else.  William mourned and cried
about all day, and had a chill in the evening.
Sister Bentley stayed with me through the day;
she was sick, but did all she could for me.
Fanny Dort came over and stayed all night
with me.  I was alone a little while before she
came.  I then crawled out of bed and bowed
before the Lord, and plead with Him to give
us a good night's rest, and He did so; and be
assured I did not forget to pray for you.
	The next morning I felt free from pain, but
was so weak and dizzy-headed that I could not
walk without staggering.  William and Helen
were not able to do anything, so I was obliged
to crawl around and do my chores. and wash a
a little for the babe.  No one to help me but
little Heber, and I was soon overdone and
brought on another chill, so that I had a very
sick afternoon, and rested but little last night;
have not been able to do anything to-day. I
was taken this morning with a shake, and
shook for an hour and a half as hard as I ever
saw any body in my life, and then weltered un-
der a fever and extreme pain until almost
night.  William has just had the hardest chill
that he has had in a number of days.  Brother
Rogers has been here and left more medicine,
but it has done us no good, and what to do I
don't know.  I have no one to get anything
for me, or to do anything for my comfort.
Brother Bentley has moved here, but Sister
Bentley is very feeble, hardly able to do her
own work.  She is very kind, and would be
glad to doctor us if she was able.  Helen is
not well any of the time, but is able to do some
chores to-day.
	“Now, I have given you a statement of our
situation, not to make you feel bad, but because
you requested it of me.	*	*	* 	Thus
you see, as I said before, I have a trial of my
weak faith; but all that I can ask of you is,
to pray that I may have patience to endure to
the end, whether it be long or short. I feel as
though if you ever see your family all alive
again; it will be through your faith.
					"Saturday Morning.

	Dear Heber, we are all alive and tolerably
comfortable this morning—would to God we
could remain so through the day. We will
hope for the best. Unless my health should
improve I shall not be able to write you next
week, as you requested, for I am growing weak
every day.  So farewell, my dear Heber; I
pray that it may be well with you.
					VILATE KIMBALL.

			To be continued.


SURPRISE PARTY.

	The Relief Society of Sugar House Ward
have had five surprise parties this year—April
26th for Mrs. Lucy Ann W. Pettigrew; Aug.
15th Mrs. Jane Cornwall; Sept. 19th Mrs. Ann
S. Clark; Oct. 20th Mrs. Matilda E. Wagstaff,
and Nov. 4th in honor of our beloved Presi-
dent. Mrs. Sarah B. Gibson. When the table
was covered with the bounties of the earth,
Father Gibson blessed the food in a most im-
pressive manner, also the hands which had pre-
pared the same. After dinner Sister Esther
Hardy, in behalf of the Society, said:
	"Sister Gibson, the sisters of the Relief So-
ciety have chosen me to represent them in of-
fering you a winter shawl, a chromo, entitled
'No cross, no crown,' a pair of vases, and a
few other small presents, and to thank you for
all your good counsel and faithful work. We
wish you a long life on this earth, that you
may still do good to the poor and needy, that
your last days may be your best days, and then
be exalted with a celestial exaltation."
	Sister Gibson said: "I thank you all for
your great kindness, but my heart is too full
to express my feelings. I hope and trust in
the Lord that I may live worthy of all His
blessings. May God bless you all, is my
prayer, in the name of Jesus."
	BETSY BOLLWINKLE, Secretary.
	CAROLINE WILLINGBECK, Ass't Sec'y.


THE Battle of INKERMAN.—To-day being
the anniversary of the battle of Inkerman,
which was fought in the Crimea on November
5,1854, the usual custom of decking the colors
with laurel was observed in every regiment
throughout the British Army that took part
in the memorable battle. It will be remem-
bered that the Brigade of Guards specially
distinguished themselves in this engagement,
and that a monument was erected in Pall-mall
to the three regiments of the Brigade. The
subaltern doing duty with the detachment of
Foot Guards mounting the "Queen’s Guard"
this morning carried the laurels to St. James’s
Palace.


_______________________________________________________________________________

							WOMAN'S EXPONENT							

_______________________________________________________________________________


TO A WOMAN.
					  ------
AN ANSWER TO SUSAN COOLIDGE'S POEM, "ONLY
				    A WOMAN.”
					  ------
		Yes, God has made thee woman,
			And do thou seek to be
		"Just what He meant." Let not deaf ears
			And eyes that will not see,
		Cause thee to fail the noble life
			That he hath planned for thee.

		It may be in a tranquil home
			Whose peace shall fill thy soul,
		Thy strength may help, thy wisdom urge
			The workers to their goal,
		Or make from harmony within
			Divinest music roll.

		Or haply with the toilers thou
			Must pass thy busy days,
		The struggles of thy brother men
			Not seeing "through a haze,"
		But sharing, bearing burdens in
			Thy helpful, womanly ways.

		It may be in thy wishful soul
			Thou hopest some good to teach
		A waiting world: take courage, then,
			Thy Master bids thee preach;
		"Go tell my brethren I am risen!"
			The words their souls shall reach.

		Perchance the nation needs thy help
			To free it from its foes,
		For oft for right and native land
			Women strike valiant blows;
		God did great things for Israel
			When Deborah arose.
								--"Our Herald."


A DISTINGUISHED WOMAN.
				------
		  ZINA D. H. YOUNG.
				------
			CONTINUED.

	Sister Zina possesses,in a large degree, what
is designated in modern times “the motherly
element. She has that intense sympathy with
misfortune and suffering which brings one into
close communion with the hearts and inner
lives of those to whom they minister. Unsus-
pecting and thinking no evil, it may be truly
said of her, she is generously endowed with
that sweet charity which hopeth all things.
Such women, when richly clothed with faith
and firmly established in the principles of the
Gospel, are quite capable of being efficient
mothers in training the young in the paths of
virtue and rectitude; consequently, Sister Zina
has been most successful in this direction, for
her sons and daughters are honorable and no-
ble men and women.
	The Lion House, in the days when Sister
Zina was rearing the children under her care,
was one of the brightest, happiest homes upon
the earth. No doubt the atmosphere and sur-
roundings of the dwelling-place had much to
do towards imbuing her permanently with that
cheerful, happy spirit which has been one of
the greatest attractions in drawing the hearts
of the people towards her.
	To those unacquainted with the conditions of
families among the Latter-day Saints, one can
scarcely convey a correct idea of the blessing
a woman may be, who possesses the nobility of
character and power of self-sacrifice in such a
degree, as to render help to all under the varie-
ties of circumstances where consolation, com-
fort and good works are needed.
	The gentle ministrations of woman are beau-
tifully portrayed by the poets, and form a fit-
ting subject for the artist, or the sculptor, but
none of these artificial productions, can bring
to the human soul the exquisite rendering of
divine power, which comes through human ten-
derness in the hours of supreme need.
	Sister Zina devoted much time to the sick
and distressed.  Day and night she sought to
relieve suffering, to inspire courage in the weak
and to smooth the pillow of pain. This
seemed her especial mission, her real life-work.
It is the one to which she seems peculiarly
well adapted. In all spiritual labors she is
also specially gifted. There is no woman in
Israel more inspirational in prayer. Her lan-
guage is simple, and her manner characterized
by the greatest humility, yet those who hear
her are always impressed, with the genuine ear-
nestness and true eloquence with which she
pleads when offering up devotion to the Deity.
	Sister Zina has been a zealous laborer in the
Lord’s vineyard in temporal as well as spiritual
things, and though her strongest capabilities
for labor are really in nursing the sick, or what
would be technically termed Materia Medica,
yet in many other directions she has labored
faithfully, in active public service.
	When the Relief Society, first established in
Nauvoo by Joseph Smith, was re-organized in
Utah by Brigham Young, Sister Zina was one
of the first identified in that benevolent work,
and her labors have been from that time to the
present in close connection with those of Sister
Eliza, the leader of that institution. In fact,
she has ever stood by her in all the movements
made in the interest of that organization; and
when Sister Eliza was set apart and ordained
to preside, she chose Sister Zina as her first
Counselor, and she was ordained to that office
under the hands of President John Taylor, in
these words of blessing and appointment:
	“Zina Diantha Young Smith, I lay my hands
upon thee in the name of Jesus, and by au-
thority of the Holy Priesthood, and ordain thee
to be First Connselor to Eliza R. Snow. Honor
thy calling, which is an honorable one; sustain
and assist thy President, and thou shalt have
joy in thy labors; thou shalt be a wise coun-
selor; the Lord is well pleased with thee and
will sustain thee, and no man shall deprive thee
of thy blessings; thou shalt have the gift to
heal the sick, and thou shalt be blessed in time
and in eternity; in the name of Jesus. Amen.”
	Sister Zina has been indefatigable in her
labors among the people in woman’s interest,
and has traveled and visited the people in al-
most every town and settlement in these val-
leys. Her name is like Sister Eliza’s, a house-
hold word in the families of the Latter-day
Saints, and is ever spoken with reverence and
love. She has been for many years a Sunday
School teacher in the ward where she resides,
and in this particular labor has won the love
and esteem of all under her charge.
	One of the most useful and beneficial fields
of labor in which Sister Zina has ever operated
is sericulture. Ever since any effort has been
made in the silk industry, she has been on the
alert, traveling in its interest, encouraging the
sisters and brethren to move forward in this
enterprise for the promotion of home manu-
facture. She has raised cocoons with her own
hands, and had charge of a large cocoonery
and mulberry orchard which belonged to Prest.
Young, and carried on a successful business in
this direction while her health permitted.
Thousands of mulberry trees from the orchard
have been sold and transplanted into the vari-
ous settlements in the Territory. When the
silk enterprise was organized June 15, 1876,
into an Association, Mrs. Zina D.H. Young
was chosen President of the Deseret Silk Asso-
ciation.
		_______________________


[Column 1]

NEW YEAR'S DAY.

	What a glorious boon! Millions hail thy
return with gladness. Millions look forward
to thee with anxious hearts for a little recrea-
tion and amusement. Fathers, mothers, cous-
ins, friends and well-wishers surround each
other's table, partake of some of the earth's
most delicious food; the cheerful faces, the
health, the dress, the house, the air, the sun,

[Column 2]

the city, the street, and even the very horses,
seem to be infused with gladness, in lan-
guage no tongue could command. It is the
New Year. It indeed has come. All are
happy, and gay, and festive. Men and ani-
mals are glad. Kindred spirits have met and
resolve on having a glorious holiday- What
a liberty do I enjoy this day! No tyrant's
voice is heard in this land of liberty; no labor,
no toil, no care; all, all is freedom, and this is
a feast to me indeed. Come, wife and children,
and let us enjoy this day; let the Holy Spirit
be in our hearts and habitation; let no foul
spirit be near, and we shall be made glad, we
shall sing and rejoice and thank the Great
Father that we have a lifetime to stay on the
earth and perform our part as nobly as we
can.

	O New-bom Year, thou art come again
	To weld a link to the mighty chain
	Of years, that have rolled since this earthly ball
	Sprang forth at its Great Creator's call!
	Thou art come, and hast shed a cheering ray—
	All hearts are bent on a joyful day.
	Thou art come, and the sun shines bright with joy.
	The air breathes free to the 'prentice boy;
	He has hidden his wages for weeks before,
	To exhaust this day his little store.
	Thou art come, New Year, right welcome come!
	Young hearts now think their heaven begun;
	All cares are fled, and they think with glee
	To enjoy their yearly jubilee.
	For twenty years I have labored now,
	And toiled for bread, with a sweating brow,
	But never before could I sit at ease,
	And enjoy a day just as I please.
	Come, wife and children, around the board,
	While we seek a blessing from the Lord;
	The smile of heaven makes sweet teh food,
	For flowers of love in our path are strewed
	We will enjoy this glad New Year,
	No need to mourn, and no need to fear;
	What spirit so wicked as dare to come
	And disturb the peace of our mountain home?
		JAMES GALLACHER.

PLEASANT PARTY.
	Monday night, Dec. 10, 1881, about forty
persons, including Sister Fife and the portion
of her family residing in Ogden, assembled at
the house of Brother Valesco Farr, son-in-law
of Mrs. Diana Fife, to show respect to her be-
fore leaving for the southern country. The
company consisted of the Bishop and his Coun-
selors, Hon. A. F. Farr, Joseph Parry, Joseph
Johnson, Enoch Farr, Brother Wilkinson, Jo-
seph Harris, and many of the members of the
Third Ward Relief Society, and a few others
of her most intimate friends residing in other
wards.
	Sister Ann Odell was called to the chair.
The exercises consisted of speeches from the
brethren, with songs, also expressions of kind
feelings towards Sister Fife, by Sister D. M.
White, President of the Relief Society, and
her counselors and many others.
	Refreshments were passed around, after
which the Society presented to Sister Fife a
handsome silver butter dish and knife, expres-
sive of their high respect for her, which was
received with kind acknowledgments, in a few
words, being empowered with emotions too
strong to express. Then an address was read
by the Secretary, Mrs. Lucretia B. Farr, which
she had written for the occasion, which was
very good, expressing the regret of the society
and her friends in parting with one so worthy
of esteem, and wishing her every blessing in
her new home, where duty called her to go.
	Before concluding, a few appropriate remarks
were made by Sister Ann Odell, a hymn was
sung and a prayer offered. With many a
goodbye, the party dispersed to their homes,
feeling they had spent a pleasant and profitable
evening.


_______________________________________________________________________________________________


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
_______________________________________________________________________________________________

		 THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
_______________________________________________

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	*	*	Editor.
_______________________________________________

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communicationsn to
					Publisher Woman's Exponent,
							Salt Lake City Utah.
_______________________________________________

   	 SALT LAKE CITY,	-	JANUARY 1, 1882.
_______________________________________________


THE POSITION OF UTAH.
	ANOTHER year has been added to the cycles of
time. The eventful year of 1881 is past. Many
wonderful and dreadful occurrences have trans-
pired. Death has been busy among the ranks of
men, and many honorable ones whose names
were known to the world for their great and
good works have departed to "that bourne from
whence no traveler returns.” And 1882 is ush-
ered in, and a new volume, as it were, is opened.
What is written shall remain, but what shall be
written on the blank white pages of the coming
volume of time none can tell. It is not given
man to know the future, save as it is revealed at
times to those who have special need of fore-
knowledge. Whoever observes carefully the
events at present transpiring upon the earth,
cannot fail to be impressed with a sense of their
significance, as pertaining to something yet to
come, or feeling that some great change  is im-
minent.
	Utah has been unusually prosperous  during
the past year, especially in agriculture. The
husbandman has greaty rejoiced in the fruits of
his labor. Many improvemens have been
made in various directions for the advancement
of enterprise and industries, promoting the
growthof prosperity.
	Whatever success attends a nation, a body of
people or an individual, there is sure to arise in
the feelings of some envy or hostility. It is a well-
known fact in the history of nations and individ-
uals. Utah has gained a notoriety that is at-
tracting the attention, not only of the American
people but those of other countries. The pecu-
liarity of the country itself and the remarkable
thrift, energy and indomitable perseverance of
its people in subduing the desert, and overcom-
ing difficulties, which would be by some con-
sidered insurmountable, is at the present time
an established fact. The singularity of the
doctrines taught by the latter-day Saints, re-
ceive through divine revelation to Prophets
and Apostles, is calculated to attract the atten-
tion of the people of all nations towards the
gathering place; thus fulfilling the words of the
Prophet Isaiah, that Zion should be established
in the tops of the mountains and all nations
should flow unto her.
	But leaving this glorious theme let us consid-
er the position of utah to-day. The questions
now pending in Congress concerning the seat of
the Delegate from Utah is an important one
noth in its relation to the Territory, the "Mor-
mon" people, the whole country and the prin-
ciples of government. In fact it involves much
more than the matter of Utah’s representation
at one session of Congress. Is it not taking from
American citizens the liberty of suffrage and
the freedom thus guaranteed; a precedent firm-
ly established by long and constant usage? The
people of Utah elected by ballot the man of their
choice, and in our opinion, were the votes of wo-
men on both the People's and Liberal tickets to
be declared invalid (however indignant we
might be) even then the majority would be in
favor of the peoples’ choice.
	Plurality of wives is the great bug-bear that
frightens everybody, and is made the scape-goat
for every indignity. But upon mature consider-
ation, is that condition of things to be brought
into comparison with the demoralizing practices
prevalent in the world? Emphatically no. One
is honorable and justifiable in the sight of our
Father, as recognized by Him in ancient times,
when men walked and talked with God; the
other is denounced in the holy Scriptures as cor-
rupt and wicked. One is in strict accordance
with the laws of life and health, not only for the
present, but more especially future generations;
the other is contrary to morality and chastity,
and tending to the destruction of human life
upon the earth, as well as detrimental to spiritu-
ality and the higher attributes of mankind.
Physically and scientifically considered, leaving
religion out of the question, plural marriage, if
lived according to correct principles, would tend
to purity of life and elevation of character. But
the Latter-day Saints accept it in its sacred
phase. Are they guilty of any crime against
their own conscience and the laws of Deity? If 
not, why should they not stand heroically in de-
fense of their rights and vindicate the truth?
They are in possession of happy homes here in
these peaceful vales, they are a strength and
support to the Republic, they increase its num-
bers, its wealth and its prosperity.
	Who would oppress and afflict an innocent
people, whose only offence is that they dared to
hearken and be obedient to the laws of God? Is
it not said in the Scriptures that “obedience is
better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the
fat of rams? But time will prove all things,
and iniquity and injustice cannot go unpunished;
that is an eternal decree from which there is no
appeal.
	In our opinion, the women of Utah should pe-
tition against unjust legislation and the enact-
ment and enforcement of laws that will deprive
them and their brethren of the rights of citizen-
ship; and that will bring sorrow to their hearts,
desolation to their homes and misery and wretch-
edness to their children. And what increase of
happiness or satisfaction will it bring to rulers and
statesmen, priests or people or to those who are
urging severe measures towards the Mormons in
every town and settlement in the land? None
whatever.
	There is another subject of vast importance
now upon which it seems eminently proper ac-
tion should be taken by women, and against
which every women here should strongly pro-
test; that is , the decision of the Judge of the 
Supreme Court of the Territory on the liquor
question. Every woman who has the interest 
of mankind at heart, who possesses a latent
spark of divinity within her soul, should exert
her utmost influence for the suppression of in-
temperance. The laws of the city are adequate
to suppress and restrain the sale of ardent spirits
and maintain good order, as in times past, were
there no outside interference. If by concerted
action the women of this Terrirory could succeed
in acccomplishing something positive in this di-
rection, would it not be worth a mighty effort?


A HAPPY NEW YEAR.

	On the last day of the old year every one nat-
urally, ponders over and reviews the past.
Many are the happy moments brought to mind,
many are the sad ones. Too often I fear is the
mind filled with regrets. Oh that the days
would come when we would have no regrets
and when we could truthfully say the year is
past and I am satisfied. While I sit musing


upon these things and gazing back over the past
and I turn the pages of the book of memory and
read the words of joy, sorrow, regret and hope, I
hear a distant sound of bells. It is very sad and
mournful, this lingering tolling, what does it
mean? Ah, now I know, ’tis the last respect
paid to the dying year, toll, toll—It ceases and
the dear old year is gone; let us bury it but not
forget it. Another sound comes pealing through
the cold, frosty air, the gay ringing of New
Year's bells and the merry, gladsome sound tells
of joy and delight. It heralds in the welcome
New Year and bids us all renew our courage to
persevere in the paths of happiness and know-
ledge. Its gladness I would re-echo and say a
Happy New Year to you all.	A.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	PROF. FOWLER the renowned phrenologist is
in the city at the Walker House. He has been
traveling in parts of Sanpete and Utah counties.
He expects to leave Salt Lake City on Tuesday
morning next.
	On Tuesday, Dec. 27th, a meeting was held
in the 6th Ward, Sisters Eliza R. S. Smith, M. I.
Horne, E. B. Wells and E. C. S. Clawson were
invited by the Bishop to attend and assist in
the organization of a Primary Association. Sis-
ter E. R. S. Smith presided and officiated in the
organization. Sister Agnes Irvine was chosen
for President with Sisters Margaret Leatham
and Elizabeth Evans as Counselors. Secretary
Miss M. A. Bezzant, Assistant Secretary Wm.
Leatham, Treasurer Emily Linnelles. The
children were addressed for a few minutes by
each of the Sisters who had been invited to at-
tend. After the close of the meeting Bishop
Hickenlooper escorted the ladies to his residence
where they took supper and spent a short time
very agreeably.
	We are pleased to be able to announce to our
readers and the public generally that Mrs. H.
C. Norton, M. D., who was baptized by Elder
O. F. Whitney, while on his mission in the
States, has at last been able to gather to Zion.
The doctor was greatly disappointed on arriving
here to find that Br. Whitney was absent, as
he was the only person here with whom she
could claim acquaintance. However she found
our Office readily enough and Mrs. H. M. Whit-
ney welcomed her to her home as a sister. The
lady is desirous of obtaining employment and as
she is thoroughly prepared to teach perspective
drawing in crayon, she solicits a few pupils in
that study for the present until she becomes
sufficiently acquainted with the people to follow
her profession. She is a lady of culture and re-
finement; received her education (as it is term-
ed) in a convent, and was taught drawing and
painting after the style of the old masters. After
her marriage, her husband being a physician,
she commenced medical studies with him,
which she pursued consecutively ten years.
She afterwards visited Europe and practised in
the hospital at St. Petersburg three years. The
knowledge and experience acquired there, added
to long years of study qualified her for practice,
but her views in regard to the Allopathy prac-
tice changed and she attended the Eclectic
medical school in Cincinnati, the only place at
that time within her knowledge, where women
were permitted to take a degree; and after ob-
taining it she went to Louisville, her old home,
where she gained a large practice and was con-
stantly employed until 1864, when she went to
New York; while there she had a very extensive
practise for some years. During her residence in
New York she occupied the chair in the 26th
Street Medical School as Professor of Eclectics
and Clinics.


Dr. Norton has taken rooms for the winter at
the residence of Mrs. H. M. Whitney, North
Temple Street, one half block east of the Tem-
ple Block. Ladies who may wish to consult her
professionally can be granted private audiences
if they desire it. Dr. Norton uses the homoe-
pathic remedies generally.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 117


LESSONS IN DRAWING.

	DR. H. C. Norton, will teach perspective
drawing in crayon in twenty lessons. Office at
the residence of Mrs. H. M. Whitney, North
Temple Street, half a block east of the Temple.
We have seen some specimens of the lady's
work and consider them very fine. Terms fif-
teen dollars for twenty lessons.


CORRECTION.—E. R. Farnsworth, Secretary
Relief Society of Beaver Stake, very politely re-
quests us to correct the report of the Relief So-
ciety as published in Nov. 1st issue of the EXPO-
NENT. She states that instead of cash $37.40,
property, $99.20, and wheat 24 bushels, they
have on hand cash, $[-]7.40, property in treasury,
$99.28, real estate, $3,697; total property, $3,769.28.
Wheat in bin, 221 bushels; loaned, to be returned
December 1, with one-fourth interest, 133 bushels;
interest 33 ½ bushels; total wheat, 387 ½ bushels.


OBITUARIES.
		-----
	Died, at Wellsville, Cache Co., Utah, Dec. 7,
1881, Mary Thirkell, wife of John Thirkell, in
the 67th year of her age.  Deceased was born at
Hutton Bushel, Yorkshire, England, March 30,
1815; was baptized into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints on Oct. 22, 1850, at
Corby, Northamptonshire.  She left her com-
fortable home, father and mother, and emigrated
to Utah with her husband and family; crossed
the plains in Jacob Gates' company in 1853, bury-
ing two children on the plains in one week.
	Sister Thirkell lived and died a Saint.  She
was a kind and loving wife and mother, and has
many friends in Utah who honored and re-
spected her.--Com.
			------

	Died, at her residence in Tooele City, Dec. 12,
1881, at two o'clock p.m., Elizabeth White
Clegg, wife of Benjamin A. Clegg.
	Deceased was born Aug. 1, 1813, at Billingsley
England. She embraced the Gospel in Novem-
ber, 1843, and emigrated in Elder Orson Spen-
cer's company in 1849.  At Council Bluffs her
husband, Johnathan White, died, leaving her
with a small family; but through many priva-
tions and trails she arrived in Salt Lake City the
same fall, where her energetic and cheerful dis-
position won her many friends.  In the Spring
1850 she was married to Bro. Benjamin Clegg,
who was always a kind and sympathetic hus-
band.  In the Fall of the same year they moved
to Tooele City, being among the first settlers of
that valley, and encountering all the trials and
privations of Indian troubles and the scourge of
grasshoppers and famine, and many other incon-
veniences incident to the founding of new set-
tlements.  Through all she maintained her in-
tegrity firm and unshaken in the great latter-day
work, living up to all the requirements and privi-
leges of the Gospel, and assisting in every enter-
prise where woman's aid could benefit, for build-
ing up the Kingdom of God on the earth.  At
the first organization of the Relief Society of
Tooele she was chosen First Counselor to the
President, and subsequently she was chosen
First Counselor to the Relief Society President
of the Stake when the organization of the Re-
lief Societies of the Stake was effected, which
position she retained up to the time of her death.
She was the mother of seven children, and 
leaves forty-two grandchildren and nine great-
grandchildren. 
	On Wednesday, Dec 14, at 10 A. M., her mor-
tal remains were carried by some of her grand-
sons to the meeting house, followed by a large
procession of relatives and friends,  also the offi-
cers and members of the Relief Society from all
parts of the Stake.  Very consoling, comforting
and good instructions were given by Patriarch
John Rowberry and Apostle F. M. Lyman; after
which the large cortege moved to the cemetery,
where the body of our dear sister was laid away.
But she has gone in hopes of a glorious resurrec-
tion with the just.
				ANN TATE, Cor. Sec'y R. S.
				-------

	Why should our tears in sorrow flow?
		God has recalled His own;
	Then let our hearts in every woe,
		Still say, "Thy will be done."

	Died, at Lake View.  Tooele Co., Dec. 7, 1881,
of diphtheria, Mary Gillespie Shields, aged 9
years, 8 months and 4 days.  She was the daugh-
ter of Archibald and Ellen Shields.  Owing to
there being no Primary Association, she became
a member of the Relief Society, and was always
pleased to attend the meeting and Sunday School,
and was beloved by all who knew her.
				ELIZABETH MILLER. 
			-------------------

	Died, at Mill Creek, Salt Lake County, of
typhoid fever, Nov. 7, 1881, Elizabeth A. Car-
lisle, daughter of Joseph and Isabella Carlisle,
aged 18 years 11 months and 12 days.
	Deceased was a counselor in the Young La-
dies Association and a teacher in the Sabbath
School, and was a firm believer in the princi-
ples of the everlasting gospel.  She was a young
lady highly respected and esteemed by all who
knew her, a loving and faithful friend, a kind
sister, and a dutiful child.  She leaves a large
circle of relatives and friends to mourn her loss,
who truly sympathize with her parents, sisters
and brothers in their sad bereavement, and
pray the Lord to comfort their hearts that they
may bear their loss with fortitude.
	Death has placed his cold hand now
	On that calm and placid brow;
	Cease from sorrow, care and strife,
	Thou hast passed this troubled life:
	On the earth thy work is done,
	Rest in peace till Christ shall come.
								--Com.
				   ------
	Died, at the residence of Mrs. M. F. C. Morri-
son, Charlotte S. Hyde, wife of Apostle Orson
Hyde, aged 79 years, 3 months and 11 days.
	Sister Hyde was born August 22, 1802, at Low-
erpensnack, Salem Co., New Jersey, joined the
Church in St. Louis, Mo., was baptized by Elder
Edson Whipple in 1850, and came to Utah in
1852.
	In the Spring of 1858 she left her comfortable
home in the 13th Ward of Salt Lake City, dur-
ing the exodus of the Saints from there, and ar-
rived in Ephraim, Sanpete Co., where she lived
one year; at the organization of this settlement
in the Spring of 1859, moved here, and has re-
mained ever since.
	Sister Hyde has lived an exemplary life, been
a true and faithful  Latter-day Saint, always try-
ing to do good wherever she had an opportunity.
She taught school in Mt. Pleasant twenty-one
years, and was faithful in the discharge of her
duties, and took great pleasure in cultivating the
minds of the young entrusted to her care, in-
structing them in the principles of life and  sal-
vation, and making those principles plain to their
understandings as they became old enough to
receive them.
	Every one loved and respected Auntie Hyde,
as she was generally called, and her name will
be held with honor and respect while memory
lasts.  She bore the cross like a true Saint, and
will ultimately wear the crown.
					M. F. C. MORRISON.


SYNOPSIS OF MINUTES OF R. S. CON-
FERENCE.

	The Relief Society Conference of this Stake
was held in the Council House in this City,Dec.
16, 1881, commencing at 10 o'clock a. m., Coun-
selor E. S. Taylor presiding. Present on the
stand Pres. E. R. S. Smith, Mrs. B. W. Smith,
Mrs. E. B. Wells and the Secretary, Mrs. E.
Howard. After the usual opening exercises,
minutes of previous Conference were read and
accepted. Mrs. Taylor made some introductory
remarks and stated briefly and definitely the
business before the meeting. The following
Wards were then represented: First Ward, Mrs.
Chase; Second, Mrs. McGregor; Third, Mrs.
Smith; Fifth, Mrs. Turnbow; Sixth, Mrs. Ful-
mer; Seventh, Mrs. Needham, Eighth, Mrs.
Fletcher; Tenth, Mrs. Earl; Twelfth, Mrs.
Hooper. Sister Eliza then addressed the meet-
ing upon the duties and responsibilities of mem-
bers of the Relief Societies, giving them in a
concise and clear manner a good idea of how to
perform these duties acceptably. Her teaching
was well adapted to the capacity of all. She
also exhorted them to live near to the Lord and
try to be humble enough to keep the Holy Spirit
for a guide. Instructive remarks were also
made by Mesdames R. M. Carrington, R. R.
Grant, M. N. Hyde, and E. B. Wells. After
singing and prayer, meeting adjourned until two
p. m.
	Afternoon session: After singing, prayer by
Mrs. E. R. S. Smith, and singing the Ninth
Ward was reported by Mrs. Groo; Thirteenth,
Mrs. Grant; Fourteenth, Mrs. Wilcox; Fifteenth
Mrs. Jones; Sixteenth, Mrs. Fisher; Seven-
teenh, Mrs. Hyde; Eighteenth, Mrs. Barton;
Nineteenth, Mrs. Neal; Twentieth, Mrs. Miller;
Twenty-first, Mrs. Longmore; Farmers, Mrs.
Woodruff; Sugar House, Mrs. Gibson; Pleasant
Green, Mrs. Hirst; Brighton, Mrs. Jones.
	After the rendering of these several reports
which were all clearly and briefly given, Mrs.
Taylor, President of the meeting, invited Pres.
Joseph E. Taylor to address the congregation.
He accepted and occupied the remainder of the
time in speaking upon the social phase of plural
marriage. The time was almost too short for so
extensive a subject, but the speaker made good
use of it and presented many historical and Bi-
blical facts in support of his arguments.
	Sister Eliza gave some special instruction on
important matters pertaining to the Relief So-
ciety and Sister Taylor made a few closing re-
marks and suggestions. Conference adjourned
until March, 1882. Sung Doxology. Benediction
by Elder Jos. E. Taylor.
	Saturday morning, Dec. 17, the Primary As-
sociation of the S. L. Stake held their Confer-
ence at the same place, Mrs. Ellen C. S. Claw-
son presiding. The singing by the children was
heavenly. The reports were satisfactory, and
the sisters who spoke seemed inspired by the
good Spirit.
	In the afternoon the Y. L. M. I. A. of this
Stake convened in the same place, Mrs. M.
A. B. Freeze presiding. On the stand were the
general presidents of the Relief Society, Y. L.
M. I. A. and P. A., other officers of these or-
ganizations were also present. Several of the
Associations in the city were ably represented,
also Sugar House, Mill Creek and Brighton, of
those outside the city. Pres. Freeze made
some admonitory remarks to the young ladies
and earnestly entreated them to come forward
and prepare themselves for the great work now
needed. Sister Eliza then addressed the assem-
bly upon such subjects as apply directly to the
education and training of the young, and ex-
pressed her anxiety in their behalf in the most
tender and motherly language. Sister Taylor
made a stirring appeal to the young ladies urg-
ing them to improve in mind, in manners and
in everything pertaining to the higher order of
beauty and purity of life, and become thoroughly
versed in those things which are most essential
in the Church of God upon the earth. Exhort-
ed the young ladies not to let the young men
outstrip them in the race for knowledge and in-
telligence, but be able to compete with them
upon any matter of mutual interest in a lady-
like and intelligent manner.


Pres. Freeze said let us remember all the
beautiful things we have heard this day. Con-
ference adjourned for three months.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


BIRTHDAY PARTY.

	In honor of our beloved Presidents, Mrs. A.
H. Goldsbrough and President George Teasdale,
the teachers of Nephi Relief Society got up a
picnic party on the 8th of December, at 2 p. m.,
in the Society Hall, to celebrate their birthdays,
Pres. Amella H. Goldsbrough's birthday being
in the 7th, and Prest. George Teasdale's on the 
8th, so it was thought best to have the party on 
that day.
	We had quite a large party, and the time was
very pleasantly spent in remarks from the
brethren and sisters, which were full of comfort,
encouragement, counsel, wisdom and congratu-
lation. We also had recitations, songs and select
readings. The Spirit of the Lord was in our
midst and a great number spoke of His goodness
and praised His name.
	At 4 o'clock a sumptuous picnic was handed
around, of which all partook, then remarks,
toasts, songs, recitations and readings were in
order until about 8 o’cock p. m., when the party
was closed and all expressed themselves well
satisfied.
	Ever praying for the success and prosperity of
our much loved EXPONENT, and for those who
labor for the establishment of truth ahd righ-
teousness upon the earth, I remain your sister in
the covenant of peace,
	A. L. Bigler, Cor. Sec'y.


PRIMARY PICNIC PARTY. 

	The Primary Association of Big Cottonwood
held a party in the brick schoolhouse in that
Ward, Dec. 16, 1881, President Esther M. Davis
and Counselors presiding, with assistants. At
ten o'clock a. m. the parents and children gath-
ered with picnic, which was spread on two large
tables, each thirty-two feet in length. Both ta-
bles were seated by the children the first time;
Bishop D. B. Brinton was at the head of one ta-
ble, Bro. Milo Andrus, Sen., at the head of the
other. Bro. Nathaniel Bowden and some others
sang a song entitled "A happy greeting to all."
Prayer and blessing by Bro. Milo Andrus. Sing-
ing, "Our sweet mountain home." The tables
were again seated with the remaining children
and parents, making 432 persons in the hall.
The delicious food remaining, which was quite a
large quantity, was sent to the poor of the ward.
After dinner a large number of persons gathered
at the hall, making in all six hundred persons.
	A song was then sung by Bro. Nathaniel and
company, entitled, "Work away, work away."
Then followed dancing, dialogues, songs, etc.
We had a Christmas tree twelve feet high, with
141 prizes on it. The Primary Association pre-
sented to Bishop D. B. Brinton a framed photo-
graph of Apostle Orson Pratt, which he received
with thanks and appreciation. The Bishop took
great interest in assisting and preserving order.
After the prizes were given, the assembly arose
to their feet, by request of the President of the
Primary, and sang, "Praise God from whom all
blessings flow." Benediction by the Bishop.
	ESTHER A DAVIS, President.
	MARY SUTHERLAND, Sec'y.


[Column 1]
R. S. Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

COHOES, N.Y.

	A Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement As-
sociation was organized in this branch of the
Chruch called the Cohoes Y. L. M. I. A. The
following [---]ers were elected:  President, Sister
[---] First Counselor, Sister Esther
[---]ary, Hattie Clough; Treasurer,
[---] The Second Counselor not se-
[---] to hold our meetings every
[---]nday afternoons, at half past
[---] We have held the meetings
[---] we were organized, making
[---] glad to say that at every
[---]mbers have been present.
[---] in speaking, in reading
[---] News and other articles
[---]ks, and in other instruc-
[---] are a source of great﻿

[Column 2]
pleasure to us all, and we ever pray that they
may continue to be so.
	At the meeting held December 12, we had
with us Sister Zina D. Young, that well known
and beloved Aunt Zina.  She has imparted to
us some very useful advice and instruction.
	We pray the day is not far distant when we
shall be permitted to meet with the associations
in Zion, but that while we are compelled to so-
journ here that we may "so live that others
seeing our good works will glorify our Father
who is in heaven."
				HATTIE F. CLOUGH, Sec'y.

WEBER STAKE.

	The Conference of R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. and
P. A. of Weber Stake was held in Ogden on
the 8th, 9th and 10th of December last in the
Tabernacle. Thursday the Relief Society
convened, Mrs. Jane S. Richards presiding.  It
was numerourly attended from all parts of the
county, and an excellent spirit was enjoyed.
On the stand were Apostle F. D. Richards,
Prest. D. H. Peery and Counselors, and almost
every Bishop in the Stake.  The presidents of
the different places gave verbal reports, repre-
senting their respective societies in good condi-
tion and anxious to assist in all benevolent
works, and carry out the counsel given them by
those who are appointed to lead and guide the
Saints.
	Much encouragement was given to the sisters
by Apostle Richards and the local presidency,
as well as the Bishops.  The sisters felt blest
and strengthened, and determined to persevere
in doing right.
	On Friday the Conference of Y. L. M. I. A.
was held, Mrs. Sarah A. Herrick presiding.  It
was a very interesting time.
	The organization of the sisters in Weber
County are all in excellent condition, owing
greatly to the indefatigable labors of the Presi-
dent, Sister Richards, who travels in their in-
terest almost constantly, and she has every rea-
son to feel gratified with the success which has
attended her untiring efforts.

UTAH STAKE.

	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Societies of Utah Co., held in Provo
City, Dec. 2nd, 1881, President Margaret T.
Smoot, presiding, officers of the board present
also a number of the Bishops and brethren of
the Priesthood.
	Services commenced by singing. Prayer by
Br. Windsor, from St. George. Singing.
	President M. T. Smoot felt thankful that
we had life, health and strength to meet to-
gether; said there are always a few who would
stem the inclemency of the weather to meet
with us; we have no writen reports to-day,
consequently the meeting is yours, my sisters,
and I ask God to enable us all to speak;
we older ones will soon pass away, and the
younger ones will have to carry on our work;
then let us not quench the Spirit of God but
tell of His goodness, let us not be remiss in our
duties; let us teach our children in all the
principles that pertain to our religion that our
skirts may be clear.
	Sister Mary John, followed with a few re-
marks expressive of her appreciation of the re-
marks of Sister Smoot, thought we should try
and profit by them; spoke of the negligence of
parents in attending to the baptism of their
children when they were eight years old, some
die without the ordinance, and it is grievious
to think of, also spoke of our duties in attend-
ing to all meetings, Sundays to partake of the
Sacrament, and fast day to strengthen one
another in the faith; said I wish to work out
my own salvation, that I may enter into the
salvation prepared for the faithful in the pre-
sence of our Father in heaven.

[Column 3]
	The Presidents of the various societies of the
county followed with verbal reports, each one
reporting favorably of the societies with which
they were associated.
	Sister Windsor from St. George, gave a
short sketch of their meetings in St. George.
Spoke of their efforts in silk culture, said her
time was taken up a great deal in the Temple,
and she enjoyed it; her visit in Provo had
been like a jubilee, she would never forget it
in this world nor in the world to come.
	Br. Windsor said: I am pleased to meet with
so many of my faithful sisters, many of them
I have known for years; we must not be idle,
we have plenty of work to do, we must lay the
foundation and leave a record for our children,
that they may follow in our footsteps; we came
here to be Saviors on Mount Zion, and our chil-
dren must continue our work.  We need a great
many Temples to do the work for our dead; I
rejoice to see you, and I ask God to bless and
prosper you upon the earth.
	Bishop Johnson endorsed all that had been
said by the former speakers, thought it well to
meet often together.  In regard to our chil-
dren said I believe if they are properly taught
they will be ready to be baptized when they
are eight years old and can hardly wait; spoke
of the duties of mothers in teaching their
daughters the principles of celestial marriage,
and remarked that as a general thing the
sisters are more faithful than the men, more
honor to them; we will now adjourn till two
p. m.  Benediction.
	Afternoon session: Commenced by the
usual services of singing and prayer, after
which some special business was presented to
the Conference, and a number of the brethren
spoke, giving a great deal of good instruc-
tions to the sisters in regard to laying up
grain, training our children, teaching them the
power of faith, setting them good examples,
teaching them every principle of our faith, and
exhorting them never to speak lightly of the
Priesthood, etc.
	Prest. M. T. Smoot thanked the brethren for
good counsel. Conference was adjourned for
three months.
			CAROLINE DANIELS, Secretary.

TOOELE STAKE.

	The Quaterly Conference of the Relief
Society and Y. L. M. I. A. of Tooele Stake
was held at the meeting house at Grantsville,
on Saturday and Sunday, Dec. 10 and 11,
commencing at 10 a. m. on Saturday morning,
Mrs. M. A. Humter presiding, Coun. Jane
Eastham, and other local officers of the organ-
ization on the stand also several brethren;
from Salt Lake City, Sisters E. R. S. Smith
and E. B. Wells.  Minutes and reports were
read which were very satisfactory.  Remarks
were made by Br. Rydalch very encouraging
to the sisters in their labors.  The Sisters from
Salt Lake addressed the meeting briefly.
	In the afternoon Apostle F. M. Lyman was
in the stand. Sister E. R. S. Smith occupied
most of the afternoon, giving special instruc-
tion upon many subjects connected with the
labors of the women of Zion in this institution.
Sister E. B. Wells spoke upon education and
cultivation, good reading, the political sta-
tus of women and the necessity for intelligent
expression of ideas and sentiments.
	Apostle Lyman made briefly a powerful
argument in favor of woman's advancement,
and spoke feelingly of woman as an educator.
	Saturday evening was the Conference of the
Y. L. M. I. A. though the general public was
invited, Mrs. Ann Tate presiding.  The at-
tendance was very large indeed, many young
men being present. Minutes of previous Con-
ference were read and the President made a
few opening remarks, after which Mrs. Wells
addressed the meeting. She urged the young


people of both sexes to seek for knowledge, to
study the principles of our religion, to become
full of intelligence that they might take a no-
ble part in the great work now being done in
the earth.  Exhorted them to shun evil asso-
ciations and never indulge in those practices
which are adverse to morality and purity of
life and character, but to adhere firmly to
those everlasting principles which through
faith and humility would exalt them.
	Mrs. M A. House made an earnest and
stirring appeal to the youth in regard to the
use of stimulants and especially liquor.
  On Sunday morning Sisters Smith and
Wells attended the Sunday School, and spoke
a short time to the children after the conclu-
sion of the exercises.  The Sunday School is
in a very prosperous condition.
  In the afternoon, after the Sacrament had
been administered, the meeting was given into
the hands of the sisters.  President Grant, of
Tooele Stake, with his counselors, was present
and Apostle F.M. Lyman.
	The first speaker was Mrs. Rachel R. Grant.
She spoke with much power and bore a faith-
ful testimony, expressing a desire to labor
for the upbuilding of the kingdom of God on
the earth. Sister Eliza made some very inter-
esting remarks upon obedience and the law of
tithing and some others of vast importance in
the Church. Sister Wells followed with a
few remarks upon the necessity of mothers
being thoroughly educated, in order that they
might so disipline and train their children
that the highest good to Zion might be the re-
sult.
  President Grant expressed his views in re-
guard the training of children by mothers,
and said that whatever success he might at-
tain it might all be attributed to his mother's
careful and judicious training as he never had
known a father, his father having died when
he was a mere infant.
  At nine o'clock on Monday morning a meet-
ing of the primary Association was held in the
meeting house, Mrs.  Louisa Hale presiding,
about one hundred children being present. The
singing was very good indeed.  Sister Eliza R.
S. Smith and Sister E. B. Wells addressed the
children for a short time. It was a very stormy
morning or ther would probably have been
a much larger attendance.  The Sunday School
at Grantsville has commenced to issue a man-
uscript paper called "The Sunday School
Gleaner."  The first number was read at the
time we visited the school. It contained some
very ably written articles, but scarcely adapt-
ed to the capacity of children.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

MEMORY

	We do not desire to pick to pieces the flow-
ers of memory, or put the dissecting knife to
the beautiful fruits thereof, but we only desire
to say a little about memory.
	Like the flower that shuts itself at being
touched, so delicate memory shrinks from be-
ing attired in language. Anxious to preserve
its ideality, it hides in the grottoes of si-
lence. But when it returns to speak, it comes
to the surface as a bubble from the deep, and
bursts with a sigh, in parting with its cherished
gem.
	Memory is mainly unutterable, and mainly
can be but felt. We can only delineate
the outward. But venturing on definitions,
let us name it moods of the soul, recalled-from
the past.
	Enjoyments of memory have no resort in
mysticism, which is only a subterfuge for ide-
ality, invented by evil powers; but ideality,
within a sacred sphere, is it recallings from the
first estate, vibrating in the soul from the man-
sions of bliss? We think so. In common life,
joy and sorrow, love and hatred, hope and de-

[Column 2]

spair, etc., is felt according to the soul octaves
developed. Of the vibrations of these different
conditions of mind let us say: the mood is the
resonance. Hence when memory is set to 
work, the vibrations have to be set in motion,
in order to produce the resonance, in the finest
of instruments—the soul.
	To recall happy moods, without tainting
them, requires qualified practice. Agreed that
virtue is godliness, retained on conditions, ad-
mitting of the power to recall happy moods,
and being an enjoyment of the highest order,
it then also follows that by departing from vir-
tue the power to recall is lost. But when lost
is the mood entirely forgotten? What is re-
gret? Let us call it an unhappy mood: in
want, a grievous missing of what is lost. But
if missed it is not entirely forgotten.
	Where by sacred gifts, joyful memories
have been born; by departing from virtue, es-
sential to the retainance of those gift, such
memories become "savors unto death." But we
shrink from looking into the psychology and
horrors of apostasy. In this case, the demoniac
oscillations of memory between hope and de-
spair, must be a monotonous, eternal desola-
tion, from which there is no escape.
	People in sorrow will erringly flee for relief
to places where happy memories were born to
them; thinking that it was the place that gave
the memory existence; while it was the happy
state of mind at the time, that gave its charm
to the place.
	In the profane aesthetic sphere is sometimes
found a sickly desire to ruminate over again,
memories, that have lost their nourishment or
joy to the soul. It is crazily to confound
hope with memory. Let us take Homer's
masterpiece as an instance: She waited and
waited a long, long time for her lover to re-
turn; but he did not come. Then she turned to
memorizing her hope as it was, before broken.
Sanity is then gone; because hope in the past
is insanity.
	Memories of happy childhood nonrishes the
soul with cheerfulness. It was engendered,
perhaps, mainly by hopefulness, and pays back
in its kind.
	But hopelessness, is a condition, the reverse
to innocent childhood, and in a sacred sphere,
at least, is a manifestation of guilt, whether of
omission or commission.
	Nebuchadnezzar a repentant ruler, had me-
mories of his life, when for seven years he was
as a beast in the desert; grass was his food, and
the dew fell on him as a punishment for exalt-
ing himself and not acknowledging the Most
High, in giving him power to build Babylon.
	Memories of sufferings like Nebuchadnez-
zar's at the time the most powerful ruler on
earth, to be put down on a level with the
beasts, be humbled, repent, and be restored to
greatness. And then again, while as a beast of
the field be conscious of his downfall, and the
reason thereof; repent, be restored, and have
waves of memory, of such magnitude, tells that
Nebuchadnezzar was a hero. Hear him cry
out in the wilderness, in the silent night, and
in the exceeding agony of his repentant soul,
"have mercy, oh God!"
	Nebuchadnezzar was a rough stick, when on
the wall of Babylon he roared: I! I! built this
great city." But when after being restored,
he whispered, "the memories of my life when
I was a beast in the wilderness," he was a pol-
ished man. But what was the mood of his
soul, when recalling the actions and re-actions
of such a life? It must have been fear and
trembling for not again to offend a just God.
	At this day, does not Jephthah's daughter
stand unrivaled in Zion? As a historic picture
looked at to-day by a profane mankind swiftly
hastening on to judgment, Jephthah was a
murderer, and his daughter a silly girl. But
as a historic picture, viewed with a traditional
veneration for whatever the Holy Bible con-

[Column 3]

tains, profane aesthetics have tried to make a
taking tragedy of it, but all profane aesthetic
attempts have failed before a subject like Jeph-
tha's daughter. And like Abraham with Isaac
on Mount Moriah, Jephtha and his daughter
can only be comprehended by the same spirit
that actuated them. Obedience to God lies
within a sacred sphere. The sacred ethics of
Jephtha's covenant, the father and the daugh-
ter knew well, as most likely also the maidens
that went with her into the mountains, for the
space of two months, to bewail—what?
	The economy of God does not admit of pro-
fane mourning. The maidens, her friends,
went with her into the mountains to comfort
her. But what would comfort Jephtha's
daughter?
	We might dramatize scenes that probably
took place with Jephtha's daughter, and her
friends, in the mountains, while the Lord gen-
tly trained her to be received into the mansions
of bliss; we might move the pendulum between
grief and joy, in that battle for victory of the
spirit over the flesh; we might endeavor to
show the intensity of the struggle; but as we
have every reason to believe that she did gain
the victory, our object is to learn the mood of
Jephtha's daughter, while she was thus being
prepared to leave this estate.
	As everything reproduces of its own kind, so
do the soul-productions, by divine interposition
(as in this case) correspond with the sphere in
which the soul moves. Did Jephtha's daugh-
ter in the grand final period of her mortal life,
fondly linger in frail, girlish memories of mor-
tality? No! By the gifts of God (in this great
struggle) she moved forward in glorious hope
towards eternity; but determined as she was in
the start notwithstanding, she had to go
through the fiery ordeal, though favored on ac-
count of her faithfulness, her angel lifting the
veil; that she might look forward in hope to
her Father's mansions; and as we believe, took
special care, figuratively speaking to array her
in the sacred robe; yet in the flesh, she was com-
forted in dying off from mortality, in com-
mencing to taste the joy of immortality. Like
Stephen in the council when his conntenance
beamed like an angel's, she also looked into
heaven and saw, father, mother, brothers, sis-
ters and friends, there, where she was going.
Her mood was swallowed up in eternity, past,
present and future. Standing before the sacri-
ficial altar, fully attired, she already enjoyed a
mood of eternal bliss. Like Stephen, as a
martyr, she was swallowed up in the spirit.
Hence martyrs die in surpassing and unspeak-
able joy.
	The Prophet's last game with the boys. The
memories of his life; his joy of youth, and de-
light in mingling with "the boys."  And yet his
life was one of sacrifice. He communed with
God and angels; a stranger as it were on earth;
hated; a few friends, who did not know him.
Lonely on earth; in part a mystery; longing to
go home; but could not cowardly desire to
withdraw from the battle, before Father said
come. But he did know that he was going to,
leave his friends soon, and that he was to go as
a lamb to the slaughter. While in this mood,
he was re-playing a game, with “the boys;” his
delight; the hope of Israel; the memories of his
life, gathered in a drop of time; he was going
to leave them, on this stage of action, in the
hands of God. The sublime serenity of that
soul, who could paint it? Who could describe
it? His mood was of eternity; and his God-
given love to man, who can fathom? And
after all—dear reader! what do we know of a
holy prophet?
	HERMITA.


FORTY young ladies of Monticello, Ill., have 
signed a contract to keep no company with
any young man who drinks, chews, smokes or
swears.


120	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


REMARKABLE INCIDENT.

	Reading in the Evening News of an incident
in the life of Sister Coray, that being sick unto
death, as was thought by her friends, and even
the doctor gave her up to die, she thought of
Hezekiah's prayer, and like him she "turned
her face to the wall and asked the Lord to ex-
tend her life fifteen years," for the sake of her
children. The prayer was granted, and she
lived out just the fifteen years. This brought
to my mind an incident in my own life some-
thing similar, which I feel to record in the EX-
PONENT, as it may comfort and encourage other
drooping spirits&nbsp;in like circumstances.
	About ten years before I heard "Mormon-
ism" preached I was brought into a very low
state of health; it continued for over a year.
I felt&nbsp;I was gradually sinking day by day; my
mind was often full of thought about leaving
my infant family. Among other things, I
chose another wife for my husband—one who
I knew was all that I could wish, and who
loved me and my family; she had stood sponsor
to two or three of my children, and I called
my boy by her sirname.
	Months passed while I was fluctuating be-
tween life and death. One day, reclining on
my sofa, and my children quietly playing in
the room, my mind as usual dwelling on my
exit from this world, my eyes filled with tears
as I looked on the dear, innocent beings before
me, that they would soon need another mother,
etc. It came into my mind that I would make
a covenant with the Lord, perhaps He would
accept it.&nbsp;I had ever loved and served Him to
the best of my understanding, but I thought
perhaps I might do better. I&nbsp;arose from the
sofa, reached&nbsp;my portfolio off my writing table,
and took out of it my manuscript book; I took
pen and ink&nbsp;and&nbsp;wrote the following covenant
prayer:
	If Thou, O merciful Father, will deign to
hearken to the prayer of my heart, and restore
to me my&nbsp;former good health and strength, for
the sake of these my children, I vow, as far as
in me lies, with Thy divine assistance, to devote
my future life to Thee, and correct what I feel
to be amiss in me. Fulfil this and all my
other petitions as may be most expedient for
me, and grant me in this world the knowledge
of Thy truth, and in the world to come life
everlasting. Amen.
	Thus it stands in that manuscript book to-
day. I convalesced slowly, but surely, improv-
ing all the time. Ten years after this "Mor-
monism" was presented to me, and I have ever
believed then came the test of my sincerity in
that covenantal prayer. Decades have passed;
the chosen one passed away the year I left
England—but she shall not be forgotten.
								H. T. K.


CORRESPONDENCE.

MANASSEH, COLORADO, Dec. 9, 1881.

	Dear Sister—I think I could not well do
without the EXPONENT. It comes in times of
trouble to cheer the weary soul in its travels
through this world of trials. I sometimes read
it in our Relief Society meetings, that we may
all hear what is written, and rejoice together
in hearing the wise counsel and instruction of
our dear sisters who are more able to teach and
instruct than we are.
	We have two towns commenced in this val-
ley, Manassah and Ephraim. They are situ-
ated about three miles apart in the largest open
valley that I think I ever saw. We have
plenty of water for irrigating purposes. The
soil differs; in some parts it is much better
than in others. It produces the best of wheat
and vegetables—we have not tried fruit to a
very great extent. According to my judgment,
the climate is about like that of Cache valley,


excepting we do not have the pleasure of sleigh-
riding in winter, as there is not enough snow
falls in the valley; it falls quite deep on the
mountains. We live about three miles from
the railroad; we can see the train pass, and
sometimes it stops opposite our town to let
emigrants get off, who come in from the South-
ern States to join us; Elder John Morgan came
a few days ago with a small emigration.
	We have in Manassah a Relief Society, and
Young Men's and Young Ladies' Associations,
which are in good working order. We also
have a good Sabbath School, with about one
hundred, or over, in attendance. We have
good Sabbath meetings. Sometimes we have
parties, concerts, &c., to amuse the young peo-
ple, of which we have a goodly number. The
majority of the people are striving to serve
God and build up Zion, and redeem these
waste places. Our children are growing up
and gaining a knowledge of the Spanish lan-
guage, which in the future will prove a great
blessing in the missionary work among the
Lamanites by whom we are surrounded.
	Ever praying for the welfare of all those
who are engaged in the latter-day work, I re-
main your sister in the Gospel.
								S. T. B.


AT the Church Congress in England women
this year were for the first time admitted upon
the platform and formally recognized in the
programme. At the Social Science Congress
there was a meeting of the Women's Suffrage
party arranged. Lady Harberton in the chair.
By the way, the opposition of the Queen to
lady doctors seems to have been wholly induced
by Sir William Jenner. It was not always
that she so disapproved of them that she would
not even subscribe to a society which admitted
them to speak at its congress. One of Miss
Lydia Becker's correspondents writes to her:
"Of course I know nothing of the circumstan-
ces alluded to by you at page 135 of your last
number, but I would point out that in July
last, according to the Court Circular, the Queen
received a lady doctor, Miss Bellby, at Wind-
sor." It would be interesting to know why the
lady who has proved that a woman may make
the best of sovereigns has fears for her sex if
some of its members become doctors. It is
probably that her Majesty has given way to
the prejudices of a too exclusively masculine
doctor whom she naturally respects.


[Column 1]
JUST ISSUED
By J. H. HEMAN,
Salt Lake City, Utah.
[image of a bible on a pillow]
BIBLE ALMANAC
FOR
1882.
(Second Year.)
15 cts. per copy.
	A liberal discount will be allowed to Canvas-
sers.
	A few copies of last year's Almanac for sale
at the same price.

[Column 2]
NOTICE.
HAVING PROCURED A MANNIKIN CHART SPE
cimens, etc., I am now prepared to give instructions
in the art of Obstetrics and other branches connected there-
with My class will open Nov. 1st, 1881. Those wishing to
join this class will please communicate with me at once, it
being necessary to send east for books. Terms: Tuition, [-]0
Lessons, $30; books, three in number, $12. Address,
					R. R. SHIPP, M. D., Salt Lake City.
	OFFICE and RESIDENCE in Contributor building first door
north of Z. C. M. I.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of 
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS.
Also, full and desirable lines, beet brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obe i n the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

FOR SALE

Home-Made SILK
AT
CUTLER'S COMMISSION STORE.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER [---]
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

A LARGE STOCK
of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Spring and Summer Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Har-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 10.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15,1882	No. 16.


AFFECTIONATELY ADDRESSED TO 
SISTER S. M. KIMBALL.

Viva! Viva! health returning
	Fans thy cheek and lights thine eye!
And right glad am I, discerning
	Mental vigor, too, is nigh.

Treasured friend, my heart rejoices
	You're to health again restored;
In my soul are grateful voices, 
	God our prayers has not ignored.

On this first day of——eighty-two
	I would call a blessing down,
Asking life may come to you, 
	Adding jewels to your crown. 

Cast aside each load and fetter,
	That would chill, or bring regret,
But in wisdom grasp the better
	Part that life has for you YET!

Well you know that God is with you,
	Well you know He'll not forsake;
Oh! then unto yourself be true,
	And every bond and shackle break;

And walk as in the light of heaven,
	Leave the earth and earthly things,
And the sublunary leaven,
	That depression surely brings;

Loosely sit to things of earth,
	Lay your heart upon a shrine
Where no dross, no death, no dearth,
	Has power to crush that soul of thine!

There is work for you to do—
	This you know as well as I;
Let the future tell of you
	Deeds that time will e'er defy—

Viva! Viva! God now sends you
	Longer yet with us to dwell;
Angels from His Courts defend you.
	Viva! Viva! All is well.

					HANNAH T. KING.
January 1, 1882.


[Column 1]
THE PATRIARCHAL ORDER OF
MARRIAGE.

	As the Leaders, or authorities of our nation
are seeking to bring us into bondage, except
we repudiate that sacred and vital principle of
our religion, viz., Plural Marriage, I feel like
taking up my pen in its defense, knowing that
God has revealed it to his Saints for their ex-
altation and also to purity the earth of the evils
and abominations under which it groans, at the
present time. There is a disposition among some
of our young people to deride and deny the di-
vine origin of that principle; trying to make
themselves believe that man was the originator;
Satan is putting these thoughts in their minds,
that he may gain power over them and thereby
use them as his tools in warring against that
Holy Order, for he hates it, because it came
from heaven and is calculated to redeem man-
kind from their low and degraded state, and
loosen his power and hold upon them; and be-
cause God has designed it as a means whereby
He may raise up a righteous seed in the earth,
that those noble spirits which He has held in
reserve, may have pure tabernacles, that they
may come with their heavenly power, and war
against sin and wickedness, even until Satan
and his emissaries are bound so that they have
no more power over the Saints. For there will
be a mighty power wielded, by those who are

[Column 2]
born in that Order, even such as has not been
known among the children of men, for the rea-
son, that there is a greater work to be done in
the last days than ever has been done before in
the history of the world. The wicked who are
plotting against us have no more conception of
the purity of motives of the men and women
who enter Plural Marriage, than they who
dwell in the infernal regions, know the feel-
ings and desires which actuate heavenly beings.
They judge us by the thoughts and desires of
their own corrupt hearts, whose imaginations
are evil continually, and it is a noted fact, that
the most corrupt and licentious are the ones
who are the most bitter against us, and who
propose the severest measures to do away with
our peculiar marriage institution. That one
fact should be a great proof of its purity and
truth, because like cleaves to like, and if it were
sinful in its nature the wicked would love it.
They do not labor so hard to do away with the
Social Evil, with all its train of crimes, because
that accords with their desires and practices
giving full license to their unhallowed appetites
and they will license that which degrades wo-
man and shortens her life, while they would
even use the sword to compel us to abandon
those principles, which are calculated to pro-
mote life, health and happiness and people the
earth with a superior race of beings. God has
implanted in the heart of every true woman a
desire to become a wife and mother, and it is
her inalienable right, but according to the sta-
ticties, there are so many thousands more wo-
men than men, and because of the proscriptive
laws enacted by men, it is impossible for that
righteous desire to be gratified, and there are
thousands of women who go to the grave un-
married, and many thousands more who are
ruined and forsaken to lead lives of shame and
perhaps die in the street, who would love home,
husband and children, as well as you or I, and
would make as good wives, if that sacred right
were only granted them. Let the young pon-
der upon these things, and the Spirit of God
will bear testimony to their spirits, that they
are true, for just as sure as God has spoken
from the heavens in this our day, so sure is
Plural Marriage one of the principles He has
commanded his children to obey, and none can
disobey it, and be exalted in His presence; He
has spoken it, and His word cannot fail.
	Many profess to believe in every principle of
our religion. Plural Marriage excepted, what
an inconsistency! believe that a man can be a
prophet of God and yet practice sin? I could
believe no such thing. It must either all be
true, or all false, But we know our religion is
true in its entirety, because the fruits thereof
are peace, joy and happiness here in this life,
and the Savior said, "a tree is known by its
fruits, men do not gather grapes of thorns nor
figs of thristles." We the daughters of Zion
are going to step forward, and stand side by
side with our brothers, in upholding every doc-
trine of our Church, Plural Marriage included,
and we will say to our sisters 'come share with
me, my husband and home and we will love
each other, and labor for each other's welfare
as we do for our own." We will show to the
world that we live in that order from choice,
not from compulsion, and we will continue to
bear testimony that God's special blessings rest
upon those who are striving to live that Holy
Order in purity before Him.
								MARY F


SOME FASHIONABLE DOINGS.

	An elegant residence on one of the fashion-
able streets of——was the scene, within the
past few days, of a party given in honor of the
young Miss of the household, who is just enter-
ing upon the giddy walk of a fashionable and
aimless life. This girl is not yet out of her
teens, and were she a member of one of the
old English households, she would still be in
her pinafores, with her mind occupied in useful
study, carefully chaperoned by an older and
wiser head, until such time as her mind and
body were mature enough to be trusted in so-
ciety. The father and mother of this girl are
considered people of common sense, and would
be surprised indeed if society should call them
to account for indiscretion, to say nothing of
wickedness; in their influence on the young
people invited to be their guests on the occasion
of their recent party. But if reports are true,
and they are certainly very reliable, the con-
duct permitted at this party was such as to
make every mother blush who allowed her son
or daughter to participate in the festivities.
Notwithstanding the fact that nearly every boy
and girl present were under twenty years of
age, a room up stairs was set apart by this
model (?) mother, this aristocratic hostess, for
the purpose of a general smoke. Cigarettes
were furnished, and both boys and girls repaired
thereto and smoked a la the lowest den in the
lowest part of a city. Only two present, a
young lady and her escort, refused to join the
upstairs company, their disgust being so great
that they declared, "If that is —— society, I
want none in mine." There is much more that
might be said upon this subject, and there is
much more that some parents in —— might
well open their eyes and see before it is too
late, with reference to the conduct of these
boys and girls who are "Germanizing" their
winter evenings and their morals away. One
thing is certain: when people pretending to so-
cial standing will set apart a "smoking room"
in a private house on the occasion of a select
party, when they allow boys and girls (and it is
no worse for the one than the other) to repair
to such a place and disease themselves with
poisoned cigarettes, something is wrong, and
respectable people ought to draw the lines on
these families and relegate them to the lower
strata of society, to which they properly belong,
notwithstanding the gilding of furniture and
assumed respectability. Every mother should
feel that her son or daughter were corrupted
by such associations, and ever debar them, in
the future, from the possibility of such under
the guise of fashionable respectability. If this
practice becomes common, the name of host
and hostess, as well as smokers, shall be given
to the readers of Our Herald without fear or
favor. Mothers who are so lost to all that is
decent as to permit and encourage such con-
duct from the young under their care, should
be held up to public gaze along with the saloon
keeper, who finishes the task of corrupting
those who began their downward course in the
homes of these women from whom society has
a right to expect something better.—H. M. G.
in Our Herald.


MISS M. E. Harding has taken the Queen's
gold medal, and Miss Constance Wood the
Queen's scholarship, in the competition at the 
London Female School of Art.—Ex.


122	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	It being truths instead of fiction that I am
writing, I hope to be pardoned for wandering
back again to gather up life incidents. The
history of the Apostles, or the Latter-day
Saints in Commerce, might be read with profit,
particularily by those who, in these days, may
possibly think their lot the hardest. Then the
world might well have called "Mormons"
wretched, and a decrepit and dying out people;
but their spirits were generally buoyant—even
in the darkest hour the Comforter was with
them. Though left as our mothers were, strug-
gling with poverty, disease and death, it was
no wonder that, at times, their faith should al-
most fail them. The husband and father called
to leave them in this sad and helpless condition,
not knowing whether they would ever meet
again upon this earth; taking their lives in
their hands, with no worldly compensation of-
fered them for their sufferings and the sacrifice
of their beloved wives, children and homes,
they went forth without purse or scrip to carry
glad tidings to the nations of the earth, where
they would have to combat all the evils, the
prejudices and  difficulties with which the world
was filled. What more could they do to prove
their integrity, their zeal and sublime devotion
to the work which they had espoused? Truly
"they went forth weeping, bearing precious
seed; but returned rejoicing, bearing their
sheaves with them."
	The following lines are from a letter written
by my father after a very narrow escape from
death, occasioned by an overdose of morphine,
administered by a drunken doctor to give him
relief. It is dated

"PLEASANT GARDEN, Oct. 24, 1837.

MY DEAR COMPANION:
	"Through the goodness of God I am per-
mitted this morning to sit down to write a few
lines to you, that you may know how I get
along upon my journey. I assure you that it
is with trembling limbs that I do it, but to ful-
fil my word that I made to you I proceed."
After giving the particulars concerning his suf-
fering and miraculous escape (which have been
published) he continues: "My courage is good,
and has been ever since I left home. Do not
feel concerned about me, for I am in the hands
of God. Never in my life have I undergone
more in my feelings than since I left home
about you and the children. Tell me all about
them; how they get along. Tell William and
Helen I think of them all the time; that I
pray for them, and that I want them to pray
for me. Tell little Heber to be a good boy,
and kiss little David for me. Be prudent, and
take care of yourself.	*	*	*	Give my love
to all my friends. And now I bid you fare-
well for a little season.
					HEBER C. KIMBALL."

	His next letter is dated Kirtland, Nov. 16,
1839; but being too feeble to sit up, Brother
Dean Gould wrote the most of it for him. He
says:
	"I have arrived safe in Kirtland, but at the
present time I am confined to my bed; have
been quite low for several days, but through
the grace of God I shall be able to go forth on
my way rejoicing, to do the will of my heav-
enly Master.	*	*	I have made it my home
at Bro. John Young's Brother Bond's and
Dean Gould's, and have received the best of
care. Last Sabbath Bro. John Taylor spoke
in the forenoon, and I in the afternoon; had
very good liberty. I spoke in  parables gener-
ally, and some of  them being so applicable to
those that were before me; a judge came to me
and wanted to know  whom I referred; I told
him to no one in particular, but if the coat
fitted any one they might put it on.

[Column 2]
	"Some others of the brethren have preached
and gave good satisfaction; but as a general
thing there cannot be a meeting without some
dispute, yet there are some few who stand firm
in the faith. I am greatly disappointed; I ex-
pected to find the brethren united and enjoying
the blessings of the people of God, but found
them broken up and divided into several par-
ties.	*	*	*
	"Brother Taylor has been sick several days
with the ague, and the rest of the brethren
have been quite unwell, but are now on the
gain. We still, God being our helper, feel de-
termined to press our way onward. We have
but little means to prosecute our journey, but
still we think that some of us will be able to
start within a few days." He closes the letter
with his own hand. He says: "You see that
this letter is written by a strange hand. Bro.
Bond and wife are true and streadfast; are
much pleased that you are coming here. I
have seen but few of the brethren, only in pub-
lic; they have had several evening meetings. I
have not been able to attend but one, and that
was last Sabbath. I have got a very bad
cough; took cold riding nights. I think I
came near the time of my release when at
Pleasant Garden. But be of good cheer, my
dear Vilate, for this is only one more trial
above the rest, so we have gained one more
victory over the devil."
	In the suffering condition of the Saints who
had sought refuge from the Christian mobbers
of Missouri, and were lying sick and dying in
Commerce, it looked impossible for their fami-
lies to exist in their absence and under their
impoverished circumstances. My father, Brig-
ham Young and others felt that there would
be no objections raised to their visiting among
kindred and friends during their missionary
labors in Europe. According to the following
letter from father, dated "Victor, State of New
York, Dec. 27, he and  brethren left Kirtland
on the 22d of November for Fairport, where
they were detained until the 26th by a tremen-
dous snow storm; took steamer and landed at
buffalo on the morning of the 27th. Took
stage the same day and went to Batavia; stayed
there till the next day, and in the afternoon
took the cars for Rochester. Father says:
"When we got to Byron I got out and left the
brethren, supposing Hall (his sister Eliza's
husband) was living there; had not more than
got out before I was told that he had gone to
Rochester. I think I never felt worse in my
life—my  anticipations were so great to see
them; but I could not get away until the next
night. Just at evening got aboard the cars
and got to Hall's at eight o'clock in the eve-
ning; found them well and rejoiced to see me.
I stayed there one week, and was confined to
my bed part of the time. I took cold on
board the steam boat; had to take deck fare
for want of means. The cold settled in my
right side, and was so bad I could hardly draw
my breath. Brother Thayre carried me to
brother Solomon's; found them well and glad
enough to see me. Your letter got to Mendon
about three weeks before I did. Sister Hall
was at Solomon's, and advised him to take it
out. He did so; they broke it open, but could
not tell where I was, supposed that I was dead,
and had many bad feelings about me. There
seems to be a great feeling of sympathy for us
here. I have received great kindness from our
friends in Victor. Several strangers have called
to see me, and Lucretia (my mother's sister)
introduced me as her "Mormon" brother. They
appeared to take a great interest in our suffer-
ings. This seems to be the feeling of all can-
did people. When I presented the presents
you sent Lucretia, she wept over them, desir-
ing to see your dear face once more. They
wept over some of your letters, and laughed at
the rest.	*	* All of our friends want you
to come here next Spring and make them a

[Column 3]
visit. Caroline (his brother Solomon's wife)
says she will keep you three months or more,
and all our friends seem to have the same feel-
ing. They want me to go after you, which
would be a pleasure for me to do, but this will
not do; for my face is turned thitherward, for
he that looketh back is not fit for the kingdom
of heaven, and you would consider yourself
disgraced in the sight of God and man.
	"My dear Vilate, you know what we are
called to do; we will press forward to the mark
which is laid before us at the expense of all
things. I was thankful to God to hear of your
health, for I believe it is He who has raised
you and the children up, for when I was in the
town of Winchester, at Father Murray's, I had
such a travail of soul for you as I never had
before. I would go into the woods four and
five times a day to call on the Father in the
name of Jesus for you.. I saw you in a dream
in a sickly state, almost dead; I clasped my
hands on each side of your face and raised you
upon your feet. And since that I have felt
contented about you and the children; but once
in a while, being among our kindred, it brings
home back to me, and I feel a little homesick.
They are all pleading with me to stay till warm
weather, on account of my poor health. A
little fatigue brings me down again.	*	*	*
	Dear Vilate, I hardly know how to express
my joy, but  suffice it to say, on the first day of
the year one thousand eight hundred and forty
I went into the water and baptized William E.
Murray and wife, and they are rejoicing in
God. The weather was as cold as it was when
we joined ourselves to the Baptist church. They
are very faithful, and remember you in their
prayers. Your father says Gould can't begin
to pray like them; says it beats all that he
ever saw. He has become firm in the faith
and preaches it wherever he goes. He said to
me one day, "Heber, I am as good a 'Mormon'
as you are." He is a great advocate for this
work, and seems uneasy here, and wants to go
back to the West. Says he would not stay
here if he could have all the town of Victor,
for the people don't seem to him as they did.
Your brother Gould and wife are about the
same as ever, very proud.	*	*
	"Bring all the little chickens with you. Sis-
ter Eliza wonld like to have one of them come
there and go to school. Sister Malvina would
take one, and I will pay them for it. Now,
my dear Vilate, you know this would be better
than to have them strolling around the country.
Take counsel of some of our fathers in Israel,
and see what they think best to do, for in much
counsel there is safety. As for going to Kirt-
land to live, as things are now it is against my
will; for I had rather live in a cave, or be
driven with the Saints every year while I live,
and be one with them, than to have all the
good things of the earth and be at variance
one with the other as they are there. I had
rather go forth amongst the unbelieving Gen-
tiles, and suffer by them, than be among such
poeple as those who have named the name of
Mormon. I pray my heavenly Father to de-
liver me from such while I live. If it be pos-
sible let teh cup pass from me. Amen."
	My Grandfather Murray, though a believer
in this Gospel, had not obeyed the ordinance of
baptism; but when he went back with father to
visit his family and friends, he could see the
beauties of "Mormonism," which made him a
strong advocate; but he died there in Victor
not long after father left him, and on his death-
bed he expressed his sorrow at not rendering
obedience to its requriements.
			To be continued.


THE public schools of Boston employ
twelve hundred and seventy-six teachers, of
whom 198 are men and 1078 are women.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NEW YEAR’S EVE.

The evening closes around me,
And folds me in silent thought;
The year I have left behind me
By Memory’s hand is brought,
The poor old year, with his failing eyes,
Falls down at my feet with soft, dying cries.

Old man, I say, thou’st given me
Happiness sweet and rare;
But sometimes thou hast driven me
On to the reefs of care.
The dying year, with his peaceful eyes,
At my chiding words, shows no surprise.

Of love, I have had full measure,
I've tasted a mother's bliss,
But in vain I've felt the longing
For my absent darling's kiss.
While I thus complain, the midnight hour
Chimes through the room with a solemn power.

The sound and the thrill die away,
And silence is all around;
I stoop with reverent feeling
To lift old Time from the ground--
But instead, a babe with wide, innocent eyes
Looks up from my knee with a sweet surprise.

O babe, unclose thy little hand,
And show me the days in store:
Will I see as much of love and peace
As I have in the year before?
But the babe looks up with his innocent eyes,
And to my anxious questions gives no replies.

O babe, I will crown thy forehead
With love flowers pure and sweet;
I will wrap thee with robes of charity,
with patience will sandal thy feet;
If thou wilt but let me my darling see--
And the baby sighs as he lies on my knee.

Then up he starts to leave me,
And whispers, "I'll come again;
Your blessings are great, believe me,
Don't mourn for that which is vain!"
So the New Year soars away from my knee,
And leaves me to prove what my future will be.
						HOMESPUN.


[Column 1]
	A ﻿DISTINGUISHED WOMAN.
		Zina D. H. Young
			CONTINUED.
	Under the able management of Sister Zina,
and the board of officers cooperating together,
a great deal of good was accomplished in seri-
culture after the organization of the Deseret
Silk Association. Mulberry trees were planted
and cocoons raised in every part of the Terri-
tory where the climate would permit. A good
article of silk was manufactured without ma-
chinery, or with such as could be obtained at
home. The enterprise grew and increased
while Sister Zina labored indefatigably for its
promotion. Her labors were of such a char-
acter that, looking back upon them to-day,
one might think they were of little consequence;
but those who know what it is to begin with
nothing and found any business, or industry,
will be able to comprehend something of the
difficulties and obstacles to be overcome in
making a thing of this kind successful. The
details of such work can never be given; the
amount of energy expended, or brain force
brought to bear upon the subject in laboring
to make its advantages understood.
	In all departments of woman's labor for the
public good, Sister Zina has been found at her
post, doing her share of active work in the best
manner possible. She has traveled much and
widely among the different settlements, visiting
the organized societies, or assisting Sister Eliza
or the local authorities in organizing. Wher-
ever woman's help is needed in any public in-
terest for the good of Zion, there she is to be
found laboring with zeal and her utmost ability,
side by side with Sister Eliza, for the advance-
ment of truth.

[Column 2]
	At a Mass Meeting of ladies in this city;
held Nov. 16, 1878, Sister Zina delivered a
very eloquent impromptu address, and perhaps
it would not be amiss at the present time to
make an extract therefrom. The address was
favorably commented upon by the press abroad:
	"The principle of our holy religion that is
assailed is one that lies deep in my heart.
Could I ask the heavens to listen; could I be-
seech the earth to be still, and the brave men
who possess the spirit of a Washington to hear
what I am about to say. I am a daughter of
a Master Mason! I am the widow of a Master
Mason, who, when leaping from the window of
Carthage Jail pierced with bullets, made the
Masonic sign of distress; but, gentlemen, (ad-
dressing the representatives of the press that
were present) those signs were not heeded, ex-
cept by the God of heaven. That man, the
Prophet of the Almighty, was massacred with-
out mercy!  *  *  Sisters, this is the first
time in my life that I have dared to give utter-
ance to this fact, but I thought I could trust
my soul to say it on this occasion; and I say it
now in the fear of Israel's God. and I say it in
the presence of these gentlemen, and I wish
my voice could be heard by the whole brother-
hood of Masons throughout our proud land.
That institution I honor. If its principles
were practised and strictly adhered to, would
there be a trespass upon virtue? No indeed.
Would the honorable wife or daughter be in-
truded upon with impunity? Nay, verily.
Would that the ladies of America, with the
honorable Mrs. Hayes at their head; would that
the Congress of the United States, the law-
makers of our nation, could produce a balm for
the many evils which exist in our land through
the abuse of virtue, or could so legislate that
virtue could be protected and cherished as the
life which heaven has given us! We, in com-
mon with many women throughout our broad
land, would hail with joy the approach of such
deliverance, for such  is the deliverance that
woman needs.
	"The principle of plural marriage is honor-
able; it is a principle of the Gods, it is heaven-
born. God revealed it to us among other
things as a saving principle; we have accepted
it as such, and we know it is of Him, for the
fruits of it are holy. Worthy men and women
of old practised it, even the Savior himself
traces his lineage back to polygamic parents.
	We are proud of the principle, because we
understand its true worth, and we want our
children to practice it, that through us a race
of men and women may grow up possessing
sound minds in sound bodies, who shall live to
the age of a tree.'"
	This is only a part of one of Mrs. Young's
speeches, but will give the reader perhaps some
idea of the ability of the lady as a public
speaker. Had she been educated for the plat-
form, and spoken upon other subjects, she
would doubtless have received many encomiums
of praise and won distinction in the lecture
field; but being only a "Mormon;" she is con-
tent with the love of her own people, and am-
bition to do good to others inspires her to move
forward wherever duty calls her for the benefit
of womankind and the interests of Zion. And
in pursuing this course she finds her highest
happiness.
	During the summer of 1879 Sister Zina's
health seemed to demand a change of climate
and of scene, and she decided to take a trip to
the Sandwich Islands to recuperate. She was
accompanied by Miss Susie Young, one of the
daughters of Prest. B. Young. While away
on this tour she met many people of note, to
whom she had an opportunity of speaking upon
the principles of our religion, and she distrib-
uted many books and tracts setting forth cor-
rect ideas of our faith and of our people gen-
erally. Great respect was paid to her every-
where, and upon the Hawaiian Islands she was
almost constantly feted and honored by the af-
fectionate and simple-minded natives. She as-
sisted the native members of the Church there
in getting an organ for use in their meetings
and Sunday Schools, and contributed liberally
for other benevolent purposes. In fact, Sister
Zina has always given liberally to the poor
aod for public benefits. No woman in Israel,
perhaps, has more friends among the poor than
she has, for she possesses that ready tact of
sayling kind words and pleasant things at a
happy time, besides having the faculty of giv-
ing alms gracefully.
	Her visit to the Sandwich Islands greatly
improved her health, and on returning home
she commenced laboring again in her active
public duties.
			To be continued.


REMARKS BY ZINA Y. WILLIAMS

AT A WOMANS MEETING DEC. 3, 1881.

	Mrs. Williams said she rejoiced in the privi-
lege of mingling her voice with her sisters in
Salt Lake City. Said the same spirit pervaded
the assemblies of the Saints in Provo that
reigned here. Spoke eloquently upon the prin-
ciple of Celestial Marriage. Said our enemies
are seeking to uproot and destroy that vital
principle of our religion, and we, the daugh-
ters of Zion, should step forth and use all our
powers to maintain it. We should teach our
children that it is a pure and holy order, and
will exalt and ennoble all who live it accord-
ing to the spirit thereof. When selfishness is
put away, and we can love our sisters as our-
selves, then we can be happy. What is going
to stay the terrible tide of corruption which is
sweeping over the earth? Nothing but that
same holy principle; for the leading minds of
the age have labored in vain, while wickedness
is increasing daily and hourly; Mothers, Satan
is seeking to destroy our children; let us be on
our guard, that we may prepare them to take
the places of the older ones who are continu-
ally passing away.
	We all have trials to pass through, but we
should not sit down and fold our hands, allow-
ing them to curtail our usefulness. Let us ask
God to give us strength to bear what He gives
us to bear, working faithfully and unceasingly
to further the advancement of this great work,
which is committed to our charge. We should
also train our children to habits of industry,
which will save them from many evils.
	Alluded to the Brigham Young Academy in
Provo. Said God was with and blessed those
who acted as teachers there. That is the school
where parents can send their children, and be
sure their hearts will be educated as well as
their brain.					M. A. B. F.


LADY Duffus Hardy tells her readers in
England that if any one travels in America in
perfect comfort and freedom from anxiety, it is
the unprotected woman, to whom all men yield
deference and respectful assistance. She is
very sorry  her own countrymen are not always
decent and polite at such times.—Ex.
 THE alleged decree excluding women from
public offices will displace women from the post-
offices of Richmond, Va., and Louisville, Ky.,
who fill these positions so acceptably that no
ground of removal can be found except their
sex. It will displace hundred of widows, to
make places for office hunters. This infamous
order will strike Miss Sweet, pension agent of
Chicago, who has filled the position with great
ability for many years. But it will serve a
purpose in showing the uneven chance a wo-
man has for place and position just because of
her disfranchisement.—Ex.


124	﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly. In Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt	Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY.	—	JANUARY 15, 1882.


EVERYBODY'S TALKING OF UTAH.

   At present the small portion of territory known
as Utah, and occupied mostly by "Mormons," is
the place to which all eyes are turned; and all
sorts of schemes are being concocted to destroy
and break down the power of the people, who
were the first settlers of these then barren val-
leys. Various bills are being introduced into
Congress by worldly wise and learned men, cal-
culated to enforce severe measures, and, in fact,
to oppress this now free and independent people.
The prosperity of Utah, the industry and thrift
of her inhabitants, are no consideration in the
minds of those who are working to destroy the
institutions which this people have exerted their
best efforts in laboring to establish.  They can-
not see that it is the very existence and efficacy
of the peculiar regulations of which they com-
plain, that has helped to produce the prosperity
and general happy conditions that are remarked
upon by all unprejudiced men and women who
deal in facts.
   So earnest and indefatigable are the leaders of
one of the largest religious bodies in the country,
that they have presented a memorial of the gen-
eral assembly of their church to President Ar-
thur, which he has transmitted to the House
among other important documents.  The me-
morial has been referred. So much is being at-
tempted, and so many suggestions are being
made to the Executive power of the nation, that
one would naturally think that "Mormonism"
would be blotted out.  But there are those out-
side the Church of Latter-day Saints that are
far-seeing enough to realize that nothing of this
kind will hinder the work, and who believe there
is a power in this kingdom that will manifest it-
self in the growth of a Western empire.
   Senator Morgan has acknowledged in his
speech in the Senate "that there is not such a
missionary establishment in the world belonging
to any church whatever."
   At the present time, those who are clamoring
for special legislation seem anxious that women
should be dealt with.  They begin to fear the
political potency of woman as a citizen.  They
would wrest the ballot from the women of
Utah for the same reason that prompted them to
suggest the measure. The Senator from Ala-
bama is very greatly interested in suffrage cer-
tainly.  He does not forget to state in one por-
tion of his speech that "the power of the ballot
is attended with the responsibility of this repre-
sentative character," that "it adds much to the
dignity and value of an American citizen in all
the different departments," etc.  However, we
are very glad he did not have power to hinder
the appointing of a special committee on Woman
Suffrage, and hope his influence may be as weak
on the "Mormon" question, for he proposes to
take from the women of Utah the elective fran-
chise, which they esteem as a gift from God.
Mormon women think it as much a duty to vote
consientiously as to pray conscientiously. If
there is any woman who does not vote thus hon-
estly, she sins against herself, for there is no
reason whatever shy she should not vote ac-
cording to her convictions of right, if she is pos-
sessed of ordinary intelligence.
   Surely there are honorable men in Congress
who favor woman suffrage, who will not silently
consent to its being taken from Utah after twelve
years' exercise of the ballot here.
   The brave women who have helped to settle
these waste places in the heart of the Great
American Desert are worthy of some political
consideration. If the Alabama Senator persists
in pushing matters to the extreme against "Mor-
mon" women on the question of misuse of the
ballot, it might be a good plan to adopt the
method of the old lady in Vermont, and send
him a box of butternut candy. We are inclined
to think the National Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion will make some suggestions to President
Arthur about postmistresses that will not be
nearly as "delicious" as the butternut candy was
on Thanksgiving day.


UTAH LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY.

	The members of the Legislature of Utah
elected for the present session convened in the
Legislative Hall in this city on Monday, Jan. 9,
at 2 p. m. The Council and House both organ- 
ized permanently, and Acting Governor Thomas
administered the oath of membership to the
Legislators. After which a message from the
Council requested a joint session to receive the
Governor's Message. The joint session was or-
dered. Secretary Thomas, as Acting Governor,
then proceeded with the message and some other
written documents. We have neither the space
to give to the Governor's message nor the com-
ments which might with propriety be made
upon it, but would advise every woman inter-
ested in the general welfare of the Territory to
read it carefully for herself.
	Jan. 10. After some preliminary business had
been disposed of, the report of the committees
to draft rules for the government of the House
was rendered; rules read, and after a little dis-
cussion report was accepted, and it was ordered
that the rules be printed.
	Jan. 11. The day was occupied by the Legis-
lature mostly in the appointing of committees
for such adjudication as is necessary in the trans-’
action of special business.
	The Legislature seems already to be in work-
ing order, and from present indications a great
deal of good will be accomplished in a short
time.
	The ladies should manifest their interest in
the public good being done by these honorable
gentlemen by visiting the Assembly as circum-
stances may permit. Although the freedom of
the House or Council has not been extended to
ladies, yet as the women of Utah are entitled to
vote, they ought to be sufficiently interested in
the public welfare to avail themselves of any le-
gitimate opportunity of seeing how business of
this kind is transacted; in fact, how the laws are
made by which themselves and their children
are to be governed. The indifference manifested
by some intelligent persons, both men and wo-
men, to matters of vital importance is to be de-
plored, for as has been wisely and truly said
“Eternal vigilance is the price of liberty;" and
in our humble opinion, it is the vigilance of the
whole people, not of a few, that is needed to pre-
serve and maintain liberty.


HOME AFFAIRS.

   GOVERNOR Murray is in Washington, and of
course using his influence against the "Mormons."
Judge Hunter is also there, and it is said His
Excellency and the Chief Justice are not the
best of friends.
   WE received a pleasant call on Saturday, the
14th inst., from Miss Ida Ione Cooke, Principal
of the Brigham Young College at Logan. She
gives a good report of the condition of the Semi-
nary, and also of the Y. L. M. I. A. in Cache
County.
   THERE will be a Conference of the Young Peo-
ple's Associations of this Stake of Zion held in
the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, Sunday, Jan. 22.
It will no doubt be an interesting meeting, and
al who have the future interest of Zion at heart
should attend if possible.
   THE Y. L. M. I. A. of the 17th Ward was re-
organized Tuesday, Jan. 3; Mrs. Maria Y. Dou-
gall, President; Mrs. Annie E. Hyde and Miss
Belle Clayton, Counselors; Miss E. A. Davis,
Secretary; Miss  Zina Hyde, Treasurer.  Some new
members have been enrolled.  Two meetings
have already been held since the organization,
at the residence of Mrs. Dougall, and there
seems to be a renewal of interest in the work of
improvement.
   THE Gardo House, which has been some
time in preparation, is at last occupied by the
President of the church, who held a reception
suitable to the celebration of such an event on
New Year's Day. About two thousand people
at that time shook hands with President Taylor,
wishing him a Happy New Year and many of
them in his new home, and afterwards partook
of delicious refreshments served for the occasion.
A few of his friends remained to dine with him.
We add our congratulations to those of thou-
sands of others, and with the President prosper-
ity and happiness, the favor of God and the love
of the Latter-day Saints.
   THE anniversary of the Y. L. M. I. A. of the
Tenth Ward of this city was celebrated on
Thursday, Jan. 12; meeting was held in the
schoolhouse at 2 p. m., Mrs. M. J. Pierce presid-
ing.  Minutes of previous annual meeting were
read and accepted.  Addresses upon subjects of
special importance to the young were given by
Sisters M. A. B. Freeze, M. I. Horne and E. B.
Wells, following which seven of the young lady
members made a few brief remarks.  Counselor
James Woods occupied a short time in speaking,
and the President, Mrs. Pierce, made a few clos-
ing remarks, expressing her gratitude to the sis-
ters who had come to encourage them in their
Association.  A party was given in the evening
in honor of the anniversay.
 AT the recent Stake Conference in this city
the dedication of the Salt Lake Assembly Hall
took place, on Sunday afternoon, Jan. 8, with
appropriate services.  The choir sang the hymn,
"This house we dedicate to thee." President
Joseph F Smith offered the dedicatory prayer,
and in the most humble and earnest manner
dedicated the building, including every part and
portion thereof, to the Lord. The choir then
sang, "He died, the great Redeemer died." The
sacrament was administered, and Apostle Eras-
tus Snow first addressed the congregation, and
was followed by President John Taylor, who
spoke with great power concerning the affairs of
the nation. Choir sang  the anthem, "Awake,
put on thy strength, O Zion."
   A primary Association was organized in the
Seventh Ward Wednesday Jan. 4, 1882.  Bishop
Thorne and Counselors were present, and Mrs.
Alice Nedham Pres. of the Relief Society of the
Ward. her board of officers and many of the mem-
bers.  Sisters M. I. Horne, E. Howard, E. B.
Wells and Louie Felt, were present by invitation.
   The following officers were elected Mrs. Wells


officiating in the organization. Minnie He
James President, Jane Jones and Ellen Broad-
bent, Counselors, Alice McLach[-]in, Secretary,
Mary Alice Lambert Assistant Secretary, John
W. Walker, Treasurer. Eighty-six members
were enrolled. Remarks were made sutiable to
the occasion by Sisters Louie Felt and E.
Howard.
	The meeting was adjourned and the Annual
meeting of the Relief Socitey was held at the
same place at 4 o'clock P. M., Mrs. Alice Need-
ham presiding. Minutes were read and also an
annual report, which was very creditable indeed,
showing that the sisters in that ward had been
actively engaged in doing good, and helping to
build up Zion. Bishop Thorne and Counselors
seemed much pleased with the day's proceedings,
and expressed a good feeling and interest in the
work of these organizations.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 125


LETTER FROM WASHINGTON.

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,

WASHINGTON, D. C., Dec. 26, 1881.

MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	Dear Sister--Your esteemed communication
of the 20th inst. has just reached me, and has
been perused with pleasure and satisfaction. I
am glad to see that you [-]ake the interest in mat-
ters here, and in the proposed measures against
us, which your letter evinces. it augurs well
for us, for our children and the future of our
cause when the women of Zion feel that there
is a public part which they can and are willing
to perform in repellin assaults upon them and
their households; and this is one of the results
which I have desired and anticipated would fol-
low the encouraging of women during the past
few years among us to enlarge the sphere of
their sex. Much is said about the right of suf-
frage for women; but that is only one of the
small expressions of freedom among us. It, of
itself, is not much of an indication. for the rea-
son that there has never been any distinction
between the sexes in voting, either in religious
or political gatherings from the time we left
Nauvoo, and in fact from the beginning of the
Church, until the present. The indifference of
many womon to matters which are of vital im-
portance to them I have always deplored. While
there are many things which do not fall to wo-
man's province to attend to, there are others in
which she should be interested and take her
part, as well as her brother, her father, her hus-
band or her sons. I think the time has come
for woman to assume her proper share of re-
sponsibility in this work. She has magnificent
opportunities presented to her, and I doubt not
that, among us, she will avail herself of them.
	This sin-cursed world has to be emancipated.
The fruitful cause of many of the woes under
which humanity groans is the badly regulated
relations of the sexes, and these are traceable to
the indadequate marriage system now in vogue.
God having revealed a system to correct these
evils, every effort is being made to create a pub-
lic opinion hostile to it, by means of which its
destruction can be effected. And upon no one
point is there more falsehood and misrepresen-
tation circulated than upon the effect plural
marriage is having upon woman. Polygamy in
oriental lands, where harems and seraglios are
replenished from the slave market, and women
are immured from seciety and the world in jeal-
ously guarded and walled-in houses, and are
treated as an inferior order of beings, can furnish
no correct idea of the effect of plural marriage
upon the women of our Church, with their sur-
roundings and advantages; yet the popular ideas
of to day concerning our women are based upon
oriental polygamy. The assertion is confidently

[Column 2]
made that we are fostering a system which de-
grades woman and makes her the slave of man's
lust, instead of the sharer in his joys. Very few
can conceive, or will even think of the possibility
of any other effects than these following plural
marriage. While we know that under our sys-
tem of marriage the most unselfish, heroic and
well-developed type of womankind is to be
found, unequalled by any that exist anywhere
among men. I am confident, from my observa-
tion and experience, that a standard of excel-
lence is being reached by our women who are
true to their principles, under our system of
plural  marriage, which approaches nearer to the
angelic than can be found anywhere else on earth.
It is very true that this is not the result in every
instance, but that is not the fault of the system.
Now, the world does not believe this; in fact,
it believes the very opposite of this; and what a
magnificent opportunity there is for our women
to make the truth known to it. I hope to see
the day, and that, too, before many years elapse,
when we shall have the best educated, cultivated
and endowed women to be found anywhere; wo-
men so superior in physical and mental vigor,
and in every department which belongs to their
sex, that it will only be necessary to know them
for the lies and misconceptions which exist con-
cerning plural marriage to be swept away. We
cannot become the people which God has prom-
ised we shall be, according to my view, by the
development of the men alone; the women must
keep pace with and stand beside them; and
hence, I have always been a warm advocate of
giving woman every encouragement and oppor-
tunity to develop and exercise all her powers. I
desire to see our daughters acquire every accom
plishment, to understand every subject of hu-
man thought, to receive as broad and compre-
hensive an education to fit each one of them for
her sphere as her brother ought to receive to
qualify him for his.
	You say: "You may not have the faith in wo-
man's diplomacy that I have." Perhaps not;
but I think very highly of her and that which
she can accomplish when she engages in it with
zeal. Much can be done and ought to be done
by all of us to counteract the lies which are cir-
culated by the anti-polygamy women and others
But there is this which is plain to me: we can-
not accomplish it in the same way. It is not al-
ways the best to repel one of their attacks by re-
course to the same method which they use to
make it. They have their methods, and we have
ours. I must say, though, theirs is not so effec-
tive as ours, for the reason, as a rule, theirs is
confined to words; ours consist of both words and
deeds. Lying and misrepresenting are their
only methods of assault. Our defence is not
confined to circulating contradictions of them.
On this account, that which they circulate does
not affect me as it once did. I thought we ought
to be more active in contradicting; but now,
while I think it is our duty to be vigilant and
ready to expose their falsehoods on all proper oc-
casions, I have become satisfied that they can
and will lie faster, than we can contradict in the
time we have to spare. It is apparent that we
must live down their misrepresentations, and
let our lives, their deeds and all their fruits do
for us that which our denials and protestations
cannot do. Yet we should let no opportunity
slip where we can let the truth be known. Print-
er's ink can perform a mighty work in this con-
test, and we should fully avail ourselves of it.
Your suggestion about petitions is a good one.
At the present they will not accomplish that
which they will do when we get into the thick
of the fight. It will be then that we shall have
to strike our most telling blows.
*		*		*		*		*		*		*
	By this time you will be tired of this long

[Column 3]
screed, which I had no intention of writing when
I commenced. Pardon it. You do not say a
word about Annie and Geo. Q.; I accept your
silence as an evidence that they are well. Give
them my love; also Louie and Brother Wells,
also our mutual lady and other friends.	*	*
	I was pained to hear of Sister Heywood's
death; but was gratified to learn Sister Kimball
is recovering. The Lord bless you. I am your
brother,					GEO. Q. CANNON.


GOOD RESOLUTIONS.

	The beginning of the new year is the time
of all times when one feels like making good
resolutions; to renew courage and strength for
the battle of life. It is like turning a pleasant
corner when tired of a rough road, and look-
ing forward one anticipates smoother traveling.
Hopeful people are sure to feel buoyed up, and
new aspirations are often born in the soul.
Desires to obtain knowledge, to be more dili-
gent in the path of duty, to persevere in re-
moving obstacles that beset and hinder us in
the accomplishment. of the good we are striving
for. There is always, silently at least, a hope
that the new year will bring more of happi-
ness than of sorrow, and that we may make
steady, if not rapid improvement and growth
in those things that seem to us most desirable
to attain to. Many promises made in good
faith may be broken, and no doubt are, but
a little good seed is perchance sown even by
promising one's self, for an exertion to do good
and overcome the evil must be more or less
beneficial. We are in some measure the crea-
tures of circumstances, and as Paul said,
"When we would do good evil is present with
us," yet by great efforts and continuous persis-
tence, a few, yes many, attain to a very high
standard of excellence. Others look on per-
haps and think it was very easy for that person
to be good, everything favored the condition.
Such may be the case in some instances, but
one cannot judge by appearances. The rough
road may have been uncomplainingly traveled,
and not even a sigh have given token of the
wounds or distress experienced, but only the
one who knows the secrets of all hearts, has
been the witness of the self-denial, the earnest
prayers offered up for strength to overcome.
	It is a blessing to us all that we have times
and seasons that seem to be special reminders
of the duties we owe to each other, to ourselves
and to Our Father in heaven. And for this
reason if for no other the New Year should
bring joy and gladness. Good resolutions are
the awakening of the soul to a higher and better
standard and indeed they may be called step-
ping stones to a clearer and brighter atmosphere.
There are discouragements to be sure even
when one has gained some foothold in the right
direction for there are many alluring ways with
attractive sign-posts which lead hither and
thither that will tell the earnest toiler, "this is
the way to wealth," and "this is the sure path
to honor, but turning not aside to gather
wealth, or honor, or fame that is not honestly
earned, but by persevering in the path of duty,
and of that duty which is plainest and clearest
to the understanding, "seek first the kingdom
of God," and all other things shall be added in
due time. And while endeavoring to pursue
the way of eternal life, resolve to aid others in
their efforts to overcome weaknesses and resist
temptation, for this is true charity.
	The young are the ones who generally make
more good resolutions at the beginning of the
new year; and it is beautiful to witness how full
of fresh vigor, and earnest faith they enter up-
on the task of fulfilling the promises they make.
Are we older folks as watchful for the welfare
of the young as we should be? Do we seek to
point out the shoals and quicksands to them,
ere they have ventured too far? And when


they have formed good resolutions do we help
them to carry them out in their lives? Let us
consider these things and ponder them in our
hearts. There is a broad, a grand field open to
labor in, for all who will form the good resolu-
tion to help the young--for every effort that
can be devised seems to have been directed to-
wards leading the minds of the young people of
this generation into forbidden paths. Allure-
ments and attractions on every hand, and it be-
hooves every mother in her own home and
every woman everywhere who has courage,
capactiy and ability to labor in the interest of
the rising generation to rouse themselves, and
see what can be done to stem the tide of wicked-
ness, and if possible save many from misery
and unhappiness, which is sure to be the result
of the vices which are gaining ground so rap-
idly in the earth.
						AUNT EM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EXTRACT.

From the Speech of Senator Morgan, of Alabama,
on the Question of Woman Suffrage in the
Senate of the United States, Dec. 20, 1881.

	"Let us look for a moment at the result of wo-
man suffrage in some of the Territories. I
have read to you the act of 1850, organizing
the Territory of Utah. The Territorial Legis-
lature has gone forward and conferred the right
of suffrage upon the women of Utah Territory.
The population of Utah Territory in the last
decade has reached from 64,000, I believe, to
about 150,000; I cannot state the figures ex-
actly. The Territorial Legislature of Utah
conferred upon the females of that Territory
the right of suffrage, and how have they ex-
erted that right? Sir, I am ashamed to say it,
but it is known to the world that the power of
Mormonism and polygamy in Utah Territory
is sustained by female suffrage. You cannot
get rid of those laws. Ninety per cent. of the
legislative power of Utah Territory is Mormon
and polygamous. If female suffrage is to be
incoporated into the laws of our country with a 
view to the amelioration of our morals or our po-
litcal sentiments, we stand aghast at the spectacle
of what has been wrought by its exercise in the
Territory of Utah. There stands a power sup-
porting the crime of polygamy through what
they call a divine inspiration, or teaching from
God, and all the power of the judges of the
United States and  the Congress of the
United States has been unabailing to break it
down. Who have upheld it? Those who in
the family circle represent one husband to fif-
teen women. 
	Utah Territory is increasing continually in 
its population and with great rapidity. There
is not such a missionary establishment in the
world belonging to any church whatsoever as
that connected with the Mormon church. It
is part of their creed that all those who have
united with the church of the Latter-day Saints
shall be brought personally into the Territory
of Utah, and there planted round the temples
in which they profess to worship. A continual
and rapid accumulation of the power of the
church and of polygamy is going on, and when
the Gentiles, as they are called, enter the Ter-
ritory with the view of breaking it up they are 
confronted by the women, who are allowed to 
vote, and from whom we should naturally ex-
pect a better and  higher morality in reference
to subjects of the kind. But this only shows 
the power of men over women. It only shows
how through her tender affections, her delicate
sensibilities, and her confiding spirit she can be 
made the very slave and bond-servant of man,
and can scarcely ever be made an independent
participant in the stronger exercise of the pow-
ers which God seems to have intrusted to him.
Never was there a picture more disgusting or
more condemnatory of the extension of the
franchise to women as contradistinguished from
men then is presented in the Territory of Utah
to-day."
	The paragraph quoted above should be care-
fully read by every woman in Utah who holds
dear her family relations and the right of suf-
frage. Why should "Mormon" Women not
vote conscientiously? Can any one give a good
reason for voting against what they believe to
be their highest interest? They vote for the
men whom they have known to be true and up-
right and who will maintain the best interests
of the Territory to the utmost of their ability;
and is not this the proper use of the ballot in
the hands of men or women?
	These remarks were brought out when Sen-
ator Hoar, of Mass., called up the resolution for 
appointing a special committee on Woman Suf-
frage. This resolution reads as follows:
	Resolved, That a select committee of seven 
Senators be appointed by the Chair, to which
should be referred all petitions, bills and resolves
providing for the extension of suffrage to women
or the removal of their disabilities.
	For the courtesy and presistent exertions
made by the Senator Hoar of Mass., in behalf of 
the rights of all the women of the United
States, he deserves their everlasting gratitude;
and the highest position which the votes of wo-
en could insure him when--women are per-
mitted to cast a vote for the Chief Executive
of the nation.
	Senator Hoar's request for a committee on
Woman Suffrage having been granted and a
committee appointed, Senator Morgan comes
forward again and offers a resolution, direct-
ing the special committee on woman suffrage to
inquire into the matter of suffrage in Utah and
report a bill to set aside any existing laws con-
ferring suffrage upon women of that Territory.
The resolution was laid over to be printed.
	The special committee appointed by the pre-
sident pro tem. on rights of women are Senators
Lapham, Anthony, Ferry, Blair, George,
Jackson and Fair.


WASHINGTON SUFFRAGE CON-
VENTION.
	The National Woman Suffrage Association
will hold its Fourteenth Annual Washington
Convention at Lincoln Hall, Washington, D.
C., Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, January
18, 19 and 20, 1882, three sessions daily, at
10:30 a. m., 2:30 and 7:45 p. m.
	All members of N. W. S. A. will be admit-
ted free on presenting their membership ticket.
	An Executive meeting of officers and mem-
bers will be held at the Riggs' House Parlor,
at 2 p. m. Tuesday, 17th. An executive ses-
sion of the officers will be held at the same
place at 10 a. m. Saturday, 21st.
	The first session will open with prayer. Min-
utes of Annual Convention of May, 1881.
Plan of Work, May Wright Sewall; Opening
Address, Elizabdth Cady Stanton. Second
session-- The Moral Force of Woman Suffrage,
Matilda Joslyn Gage; Our Demand in the
Light of Education, F. R. Hinckley. Third
session--The Moral Effect of Woman Suffrage
on the Nation, Elizabeth Lilse Saxon; The
Wrongs of Disfranchisement, Lillie Devereux
Blake. Second day. Reports of Delegates;
Discussion of Resolutions by Mesdames Stan-
ton, Anthony, Blake, Gage and others; Address,
Zerelada G. Wallace; National Housekeeping,
 Clemence S. Lozier, M. D.; National Protec-
tion for Woman's Right to Vote, Susan B.
Anthony; The Golden Rule, Harriet R. Shat-
tuck; The Women of the Nation, vs. Licensed
Vices, Helen M. Gougar. Third day. Re-
ports of Delegates; A Word from Massachu-
setts, Harriet H. Robinson; Reading of Let-
ters; Discussion of Resolutions by Mesdames


Anthony, Lockwood, Clay, Sewall, Mr. Hinck-
ley and others; Woman's Function in the State,
May Wright Sewall; United States Citizen-
ship, Isabella Beecher Hooker; The Power of
Veto, Martha M’Clelan Brown; Address, Clara
Beswick Colby; Closing Remarks, Elizabeth
Cady Stanton. Adjournment.

CONSTITUTION.

	ARTICLE 1—This organization shall be
called the National Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion.
	ARTICLE 2.—The object of this Association
shall be to secure National Protection for wo-
men citizens in the exercise of their right to
vote.
	ARTICLE 3.—All citizens of the United
States subscribing to this Constitution, and
contributing not less than one dollar annually,
shall be considered members of the Associa-
tion, with the right to participate in its delib-
erations.
ARTICLE 4.—The officers of this Association
shall be a President, a Vice-President from
each of the States and Teritories, Correspond-
ing and Recording Secretaries, a Treasurer and
an Executive Committee of not less than five.
	ARTICLE 5.—A quorum of the Executive
Committee shall consist of nine, and all the
officers of this Association shall be ex-officio
members of such Committee, with power to
vote.
	ARTICLE 6.—All Woman Suffrage Societies
throughout the country shall be welcomed as
auxiliaries, and their accredited officers or
duly appointed representatives shall be recog-
nized as members of the National Association


SOME FACTS.
	"Shall we continue in sin that grace may
abound? God forbid.
	The above Scripture verse was suggested to
my mind by an article in the Cincinnati Ga-
zette, in which the writer says, "The eyes of the
nation are turned in horror towards Utah."
Now, I thought, let me in imagination turn my
eyes that way and see if I experience any of
that horror. I have seen children in the twi-
light hour, play "booger men," enjoying the
"scart" feeling. So I wished to share the feel-
ing of horror just to see what the sensation is.
So turned my mental eyes towards Utah, and.
viewed in imagination the wives who receive
the sympathy or scorn of all Christendom.
Well to be honest, the feeling was more of won-
der than of horror. I wish I just knew how those
women do feel. Now I am not a Mormon;
and no doubt if some other woman was brought
into my house to share the rights; there would
be a fuss. But leaving myself entirely out of
the question, I wondered- is Mormonism such
a wicked, terrible affair? It sounds very nice
to tell about the love, the holy bond of union
between husband and wife, in the sacred institu-
tion of marriage, of two souls with but one
single thought &c. But upon looking into the
family relations of my personal friends about
me I am forced to acknowledge that "there is
something rotten in Denmark" here, for at
Mrs. V.'s there is no happiness, her husband
drinks, stays from home half the night in the
gambling room, although his home is made
cheerful and bright, and she is devoted heart
and hand to him. She depends so entirely on
him for her happiness, that his conduct is
breaking her heart. Mrs. Jones, another
neighbor, "has a notion to leave her husband
they are so unhappy together." Mrs. W., a
lady of refinement and a devoted wife and mo-
ther had to stand the shame of having a baby
laid upon her doorstep with the knowledge
that, though she was not its mother her hus-
band was its father. What has all this to do
with Mormonism? Some one asks. Well, let
us go still further and pry into the home mys-


teries of some of our newly married friends: We
find that in about the fifth year of their mar-
ried life, the wife begins to worry about
bearing children. Three out of every five,
say, "I'd be happy if I was just sure I would
not have any more children, but would rather
die than have another child." The husband in
sympathy for his wife, or in provocation denies
himself, or seeks satisfaction elsewhere, and a
change comes over the spirit of their dream of
married happiness. Now, though I consider it
injudicious to tell family secrets, yet am I for-
ced to acknowledge to the Mormon wives that
the cases cited are from real life! "Shall we
continue in sin that grace may abound? God
forbid. Happiness is to be desired, I think
God intended and wishes that his children
should be happy even here upon this earth.
How shall that happiness be secured? Will
Mormonism give it? Let some Mormon woman
be as honest as I have been, come out plainly,
deal in facts and tell the true state of affairs
there. Are you happy, Oh Women of Utah?
Some one has said: "Weak and timid minds are
content to hold an opinion, and not hold its
consequences. Strong and courageous minds
push things to their conclusions." Now, women
in Utah, I for one, am willing to push things to
conclusions. The strong arm of the law is
about to reach forth and take matters in hand,
but while it settles the case Cannon vs. Cam-
pbell we can talk over our domestic affairs
without disturbing anyone. Bring your knit-
ting and come over to spend the afternoon and
let's talk it over.
				EMILY SCOTT. (Gentile.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 127


[Column 1]
R. S. Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

PLAIN CITY.

	Primary Association of Plain City held a
Conference in the schoolhouse Dec. 24, 1881.
Sister Susannah Robinson presiding. Sing-
ing, "In the chambers of the mountains."
Prayer by Bishop Shurtliff, Singing, "Live
for something." Minutes of the previous
meeting read and accepted. Present on the
stand, Sister Josephine West, President of P.
A. Weber Stake, and her Counselors, and also
Bishop Shurtliff and Counselors, of Plain City.
Recitation by Caroline Peterson and Margaret
Geddes, "What was witnessed in the heavens."
Recitation by Patrina Folkman, "Saturday
night." Song by Annie and Eliza Green,
"Happy greeting to all." Recitation by Lewis
Jenkins, "Joseph Smith's first prayer." Reci-
tation by Annie Poulson, "Faith in God."
Recitation by Orson Raymond, "I'm not too
young." Recitation by Caroline Folkman,
"Am I a soldier of the cross?" A dialogue
was then recited by five girls and four boys,
entitled "The young missionary." Essay on
"Love," by Orson Folkman. Recitation by
Joseph Richardson, "The crucifixion of Christ."
Recitation by Margaret Folkman, "There's
millions in it." Recitation by Josephine Folk-
man. "On the raft." Recitation by Ezra
Richardson, "Celestial Marriage." Song by
Elenora Winger and Annie Lund, "I think
when I read that sweet story of old." A dia-
logue was then recited by Samuel Eames and
Joseph Folkman, "Mormonism."
	Sisters West, Stanford and Canfield gave
some very excellent instruction to the children.
They were pleased with the exercises; said we
were as far advanced as any other Association
they had visited.
	Bishop Shurtliff then addressed the children.
Said he was pleased to meet in the Conference
of our little folks; could see an improvement
in the children since their organization; con-
sidered it a stepping stone to other positions in
this Church; was pleased to see our sisters

[Column 2]
present with us, and was very pleased with the
exercises, etc.
	Sister Susannah Robinson made some appro-
priate remarks, and closed by asking God to
bless us all.
	Members enrolled, 110. Conference was
then adjourned for three months. Singing,
"Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation."
Benediction by Brother Spires.
	Susannah Robinson, President, Charlotte
Swinson and Trena Folkman, Counselors; Jo-
sephine Christenson, Secretary; Annie Green,
Assistant Secretary.

WALLSBURG.

	We have been favored with a visit from Sis-
ters M. I. Horne and E. Howard, and our
Stake President R. S., Sister Emma Brown.
The people convened at the Wallsburg school-
house at 6 o'clock, p. m., Nov. 14, 1881. Meet-
ing was opened with singing and prayer. Our
President, Sister E. Clifton, introduced to the
congregation Sister Horne, who gave us some
excellent counsel. Said she was pleased to see
so many of the brethren present, so that they
might be able to judge of the spirit of the sis-
ters, and hear what we teach their wives and
daughters. Spoke to the Secretaries about
keeping their books properly and being punc-
tual in making correct reports. Encouraged
the sisters to be prompt in attending their
meetings and faithful in teaching their chil-
dren in the principles of truth, and governing
their families with kindness and love. Spoke
of the outside influence creeping in amongst
us, and earnestly advised the boys and girls to
keep the Word of Wisdom, read useful books
and try to cultivate their minds, instead of
striving to follow after the fashions of the
world. Gave us much good instruction which
was calculated to strengthen and elevate us.
	Sister E. Howard was pleased to see so many
at meeting this cold night, and hoped we would
always be punctual in attending our meetings.
Said the sisters worked too hard and did not
devote time enough to improving their minds.
Appealed earnestly to the young boys; advised
them to be orderly and quiet while in the
house of worship and while going to and from
parties at night. Referred to the evil resulting
from the use of whiskey and tobacco. Advised
us to provide our children with suitable books
to read, and make their homes pleasant. En-
treated mothers to teach their children in the
ways of virtue and goodness, and exhorted us
to try and elevate ourselves in all things.
	Brother F. Kerby said he had listened with
great interest to the remarks of the sisters, and
felt to endorse all they had said. Bishop Nut-
tall felt thankful to the sisters for visiting us;
thanked them for the good counsel they had
given us, and hoped we would profit by the
same.
	The following morning, at 9 o'clock, the sis-
ters held a meeting with the Young Ladies'
and Primary Associations. Spoke very en-
couragingly to the children, and gave the young
ladies some excellent advice. By request of
our Bishop the Young Ladies' Association was
reorganized; officers: Mrs. Martha E. Timothy,
President; Miss Ada Glenn and Mrs. Martha
Nuttall, Counselors; Mrs. Zorah Glenn, Secre-
tary; Mrs. Martha Parcell, Assistant Secretary;
Mrs. Martha A. Cook, Treasurer.
	The sisters of Wallsburg have built a good
substantial lumber granary, 10x12, with good
bins and double floor, cost forty-one dollars;
built by donations. We have received on dona-
tions this season twenty-four bushels of wheat,
making in all 168. Ever praying for the wel-
fare of Zion, we remain your sisters in the Gos-
pel of truth,
			ELIZABETH CLIFTON, Pres't.
			SARAH GLENN, Sec'y.

	DEAR EDITORS—The first Annual Meeting of
the Glasgow and Parkhead R. S., was held at 15

[Column 3]
Moir Street Glasgow, Scotland on the 19th,
Dec. 1881, of which we submit a report for
your inspection, hoping that you may favor us
with a few words of counsel towards the ar-
rangement of the Society, as it is the first that
has been successful in Glasgow. And we ten-
der our sincere thanks to Elder David C. Dun-
bar for his energy, patience, and wise counsel
given during the commencement of our organ-
ization.
	The following is a statistical and financial
report.
	Organized by Elder David C. Dunbar, with
Sister Flora Crawford President: Sisters Jane
Wilson and Flora Picken 1st and 2d Coun-
selors; Sister Francilda Burnside Secretary,
Sister Jane Wilson Treasurer; and eight mem-
bers enrolled; since then six members have been
added: five have emigranted to Utah leaving a
total of thirteen members and officers. The
money collected during the year amounted to
[-]6-8-9-1. The amount distributed to the poor,
[-]5-3-9; leaving a balance on hand of [-]1-5-01.
			FRANCILDA BURNSIDE Sec'y.


A SURPRISE PARTY.

	Thursday Jan. 5th, a number of the ladies of
the Relief Society with the Bishop and his
Counselors, met at the residence of our re-
spected President Elizabeth Fox, on the oc-
casion of her 57th birthday. By a previous
arrangement she had been called out to a
neighbor's and on her return home found the
house filled with guests. After some music
and singing she was ushered into the dining
room where a sumptous repast prepared by the
willing hands of the sisters was partaken of by
all.
	After supper Counselor Mary Hawks, in be-
half of the sisters, in an appropriate speech
presented our President with a handsomely
framed picture of the First Presidency and the
Twelve Apostles of the Church. Sister Fox
made a short but feeling response.
	A Poem composed for the occasion by Sister
Claria Nash was then read.
	Speeches, singing, music and recitations
were indulged in, until a late hour when the
company dispersed feeling they had enjoyed a
very agreeable time.
	Ever wishing success to the EXPONENT.
			MINNIE HATCH, Sec'y.
			NELLIE PARKINSON Assit. Sec'y.
	Franklin, Idaho, Jan. 9th, 1882.


OUR GUARDIAN ANGELS.

Angels ever hover round you,
	Guarding every step of life;
They who've lived on earth before you,
	Fought life's battle, conquered strife.

They whose thoughts are pure and holy
	Strive to fill your minds with light,
Knowing naught but good can follow
	Those who live a righteous life.

Angel forms unseen surround you,
	Guard your steps where'er you stray;
They will watch, protect and guide you,
	Till from earth you pass away.

When your mortal life is ended,
	And your spirit takes its flight,
They will lead you up and onward
	To a purer, higher life."

	"Are they not all ministering spirits, sent
forth to minister for them who shall be heirs of
salvation?" Heb., 1st chap., 14th verse.
	"Oh, what an unspeakable blessing is the
ministry of angels to mortal man! What a
pleasing thought, that many who minister to
us, and watch over us, are our near kindred—
our fathers who have died and risen again in
former ages, and who watch over their descend-
ants with all the parental care and solicitude
which characterize affectionate fathers and
mothers on the earth." Key to Theology.
						ANN FELLOWS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


EXTRACT FROM A LETTER.
			CONCORD, MIDDLESEX Co., Mass.,
										July 20, 1881.
Mrs. H.T.King:
	My Dear Friend--How I wish you were
here! for certainly you would thoroughly en-
joy this atmosphere of intellectual refinement.
You know Boston is the Athens of America,
and in Concord are the classic groves of the
modern Athens; for Boston approaches nearer
to the Athens of Socrates and Plato than any
other city in the world, and it would be diffi-
cult to find grander historic associations, or a
richer galaxy of great minds, that make Con-
cord one of the world's hallowed places. Here
was fired the shot that awakened the world to
a sense of their own individual rights; here
began that glorious struggle that gave liberty
to half the world, and revealed the goddess in
her true beauty to the other half.
	"Here, too, lived Hawthorne, our greatest
writer of romance, author of "The Scarlet
Letter," Marble Fawn," "House of Seven 
Gables," and a host of other works of marvel-
ous beauty. Yesterday I visited his grave, a
spot secluded on a hilltop, a beautiful valley
rolling away from its base, and over and around
it lofty pines bend  and sigh and sob, as if the
burdens of humanity had passed into them.
	Here too lived Thoreau, the American
Jean Jacques Rousseau; here, in lonely woods
on the shore of a fairy-like pond, he endeav-
ored to show us that man can be sufficient unto
himself without society.
	Here the Transcendental School met and
taught a new gospel	  *	     *	 	and
Margaret Fuller roused woman from her ob-
scure depths. Here lives our glorious, saintly
minstrel-seer, Emerson, ready now alas! to
sink into the grave. Still he comes sometimes
to our lectures, bringing with him an atmos-
phere of heaven. The bright, practical face of "Aunt Jo" is
seen also at our meetings. Of course you
know Louisa Alcott, authoress of "Little Wo-
men," "Old-fashioned Girl," &c Dear Aunt
Jo! beloved of every heart whether young or
old! We walked home with her one evening,
and she talks just as she writes. Her father,
A. Bronson Alcott, the patriarch of philoso-
phers, a grand old man of eighty years, as
fresh, as spiritual, as quaint as ever.
	Concord has always been a favorite resort of
literary people, of thinkers, and well it might;
its walks, shaded with elms, some of them two
hundred years old, its woods and fairy-like
lakes (they call them ponds here), its hills and
undulating fields, its beautiful homes and its
quiet and repose, although only twenty miles
from Boston, a dozen or so of trains passing
every day, yet it is as calm and peaceful as a
country village.
	I have kept the great thing for the last. In
this quiet rural nook, possessing at most 2500
souls, is a free public library of 1600 volumes.
	I know I shall feel homesick when the mo-
ment of departure comes, as it will in a few weeks.
	And now, I suppose you are aweary of Con-
cord. As to the School of Philosophy, I send
you a list of the subjects discussed. If you
would like to read the newspaper reports of
any of them I can send them to you; I am
keeping them all, one or two excepted, and
those I shall try to get.
	And now, my dear friend, how are you?
physically, I mean, for your mental condition
is ever fresh and active--witness those articles
on Disaraeli. Was the poem, "Reminiscences,"
a late work , or is it of an earlier date? It
touched me very much.
	As far as regards Disraeli, I am not really
an enthusiast; certainly I admire him as a man
of strange destinies, an historical phenomenon,
so to speak, but being a liberal heart and soul.

[Column 2]
I was rather glad to see the helm of state pass
to the conservatives. Are you at all interested
in the great movements that are now agitating
the Northern States of Europe? It seems to
me that a great struggle is preparing; what its
issue will be we cannot well say but one thing
is certain, the birth of liberty for all the world
is at hand.
	The next great question after Nihilism, is
the revision of the New Testament. For some
weeks before my departure from Romeo, the
revision was the one absorbing theme. Will
you give me your ideas upon it? I will write
mine and send them to you at my first leisure.
Some of them seem to me quite radical.
				Yours affectionately,
						MARIE AGNES WALCH


LITTLE LETTER.

MORGAN CITY, Dec, 4, 1881.

DEAR SISTER SNOW:

	I promised to write to you, and now I do so.
We are getting along splendidly with our Pri-
mary and now we have a good attendance, be-
cause there is not much work to do.   Last
Saturday we went up to East Porterville to the
Fair, and it was splendid.   The boys made
rakes, knives, forks, lounges, whips, rolling-
pins, ox-yokes, &c.   The girls made pies and 
cakes, worked tidies, and one of the girls, about
twelve years old took a piece of every one of
the Primary children's hair, and the Presi-
dent's and her two Counselors'.   Then she
put the boys' on one side of the hair work and 
the girls' on the other side, and the President's
and Counselor's above worked in hearts.
   Sister Porter, the President, takes great 
pains with the children.   She teacher them to
sing, and at the Fair they sang very sweetly.
I hope you will be permitted to come and visit
us again next summer, for the Primary chil-
dren would like to see you now.   My mother
sends her very kind love to you, and hopes
you are well.   Accept the same from myself.
		Yours affectionately, 
						JOSEPH WELCH.


DR. A. B. DUNFORD
DENTIST.
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set. in the
most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Sull the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE.-MAIN ST OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P.O. BOX, 541.
JUST ISSUED
By J.H. HEMAN,
Salt Lake City, Utah.
BIBLE ALMANAC
FOR
1882.
(Second Year.)
15 cts. per copy.
	A liberal discount will be allowed to Canvas-
sers.
	A few copies of last year's Almanas for sale
at the same price.
	NOTICE.
HAVING PRODURED A MANNIKIN CHART SPE
cimens, etc. I am now prepared to give instructions
in the art of Obstetrics and other branches [--]fected there-
with. My  class will please communicate with me at once, it
being necessary to send east for books: Tuition, 60
Lessons, $30; books, three in number, $12. Address,
				E.R. SHIPP, M.D., Salt Lake City.
OFFICE AND RESIDENCE in Contributor building first door
north of Z.C.M.I.
			Z.C.M.I.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.
	THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
		BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS.
	Also, full and desirable lines, best brands.
Children's Fine Shoes,
obe [--]n the West. 		Your Orders are Solicited.
		GEO. DUNFORD.
		FOR SALE.
Home-Made SILK,
		AT
CUTLER'S COMMISSION STORE.
H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
			AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.
A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,		Brown Yarns,		Cotton Batting,
Flannels,		White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Lenseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

PALACE OF FASHION, NO. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
	MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
	--HAVE--
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOs. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
Spring and Summer Goods.

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.
--

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Adress, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

AT TEASDEL'S
	SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.

DRIED FRUIT OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
			S.P. TREASDEL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 10	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 1, 1882.	No. 17.


THE POET'S PRAYER.

God of my Fathers! Friend of human kind!
Almighty moulder of creative mind!
That sitt’st enthroned aloft from mortal ken,
Showering Thy mercies on the sons of men!

Thou who of old unloosed the prophet’s tongue, 
While Daniel prophesied, while David sung,
That saith to all—oh simple, pleasing task!— 
“If any lack for wisdom, let him ask;"— 
If prayer like mine find favor in thy sight,
If I have loved, and longed for wisdom’s light,
And Thou, to whom no creature crieth vain,
Hath deemed my soul deserving care or pain;
To thee, my Father, hands and voice I lift,
And crave of thee, Almighty God, a gift.
Not worldly wealth, though wealth of worlds be Thine,
Nor gilded rank, ’mong human worms to shine,
For wealth might fall, and rank might purchased be,
But not the guerdon I would win from Thee.

Be Thou my Muse! None other would I know—
Eternal Fount of all inspiring flow! —
Whose voice it was bade Seer of Patmos "Write"
Such things as never mortal dared indite,		
Or grander than old Ocean’s glorious swell, 
Rolled through Isaiah’s themes on Israel;
On whose high altar flames the sacred fire, 
Whose vivid rays inventive dreams inspire,
Unhonored oft, yet evermore the same, 
Omnific Light that lumines earth with fame.

On bended knee before that altar now,
In Jesus' mighty name I meekly bow,
Great God, give ear! Judge Thou my heart's intent, 
For I am weak, but Thou Omnipotent.
Whilst o’er my task, in feeble frame I bend,
Be Thou my Guide, my Counselor, my Friend;
Teach me true gold to separate from dross,
Accounting gain what many scorn as loss. 
Thou who endow’d’st me with receptive soul,	
O’er all its pow’rs possess me of control,	
From off this brain remove each hampering coil,
Or image vain that lingers but to soil; 
Let heavenly Thought descend as Hermon's dews,
With loftier themes my vision to infuse,
My fainting soul with fresh aspiring fill,
Its every wish submissive to thy will,
Its main desire to magnify thy laws,
Its crowning aim thy Kingdom and thy Cause.

Roll on my days responsive to thy rule,
This tongue thine oracle, this pen thy tool— 
Designed to soar, or doomed to lowly plod— 
Amanuensis of the mind of God. 
 						O. F. WHITNEY.
London, January, 1882.


[Column 1]
THE CITY OF THE SAINTS.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

CONTINUED.

	Months have intervened since I wrote my
first section of the article under this heading;
during that time I have written little besides
private correspondence. I explained in a let-
ter in the Exponent, which my friends will
remember; and now I must request my readers
to refer back to the commencement of the arti-
cle, that they may gather up the dropt threads
of the subject. I think I have referred to the
purity of the atmosphere, but my friends will
pardon me if I exhibit a little tautology; to
me the subject is inspiring, for nothing has
more impressed me in nature in this region
than its marvelous atmosphere; especially
when the year is vernal, or autumnal. It
makes a remarkable impression on me; at times
I feel it like the wings of some beautiful bird

[Column 2]
of rich and soft plumage overshadowing me,
and I love to sit calmly for a few moments,
that I may inhale the sweet influence it throws
around! It seems to whisper in the stillest,
smallest voice of joy, of peace, of heaven and
heavenly things, of bygone days, with their
dial noting the sunny hours of life! of the
loved and loving, "passed into the skies!" and
present happiness and present possessions, it
makes fuller and richer still; yes; it has a
language that speaks to my spirit of all that
is highest and holiest in this sublunary state of
being. My epitome of it is—and I say it with
all reverence—the Spirit of God breathes
in it! And this beauty is not by fitful moods
and gleams, like an European atmosphere, but
will continue for weeks, sometimes for months;
and hence the beauty of our gardens is not
invaded by sudden storms, when a large amount
of labor and expense and gorgeous beauty is
all destroyed in an hour, often much less. I
have observed that the European physique,
mental and physical, improves and refines un-
der this climate; though that probably is greatly
assisted by the "Word of Wisdom," which is
taught and practically carried out by a great
many of our people; all the elements of lon-
gevity are here in rich profusion, and health
abounds.
	Oh, the nights! let me not forget those glo-
rious nights, when tha lunar orb is sailing thro'
the broad expanse in her car of blue and sil-
ver, of gold and precious gems; through which
we almost fancy we can gaze into the presence
chamber of the Grand Architect of the uni-
verse; and certainly feel we are nearer heaven!
	In many past ages this has been a volcanic
region, though all that is extinct and passive,
but the traces of such are still visible. The
mountains that surround us like protective
walls are undulating and irregular, and the
lights and shadows cast upon them by the re-
flection of the sun render their tints purple
lurid, or a silver grey, as the hour of the day
dictates the pencil. To me, these mountains,
with their snowy scalps, have also a language:
some speak of life, of energy, of might, and
power, of warfare and the roar of the cataract,
and the rush of the torrent—now silent and
extinct; others breathe a repose, a rest, a calm,
that shadows forth the rest of the Christian
when the "mortal coil" is "shuffled off." One
high hill, almost perpendicular in its ascent,
bursting out as it were from the tops of the
mountains, is called "Ensign Peak;" from the
summit of this you get an entire and unbroken
view of the city and the surrounding country;
it is indeed a spot to realize "the world forget-
ting, by the world forgot." Here is a perfect
freedom indeed. It is a spot in which to spend
hours of meditation: a spirit meets you there
that cannot be found in a crowded city, or in
halls of pleasure; you feel you are in a temple
"not made with hands," its dome the blue con-
cave of heaven, its kneeling place the footstool
of earth. Away the eye rolls over one class of
mountains, clothed in a vesture of royal pur-
ple; on the other side they are enveloped in a
veil of mist, and their base dreamy and ob-
scure—such as Claude Lorraine loved to paint,
drawing the mind to contemplate that bright,
beautiful, but mystic and obscure eternity to
which we are all so rapidly hastening! Let-
ting the eyes drop into the valley, we there see
a tortuous, dark line, rolling in coils, like a
huge serpent, named by the pioneers the river
Jordan! Away higher up runs a bar of shin-

[Column 3]
ing silver, sufficient to line every cloud that
may overhang the region, whether individual
or collective; this is composed of the rays of
the sun upon the beautiful Salt Lake. Then
the eye descends upon the city, the tops of
whose highest buildings you can in imagination
walk over. In my rapturous feelings I could
imagine one huge building "the Coliseum;" and
the noble, but unfinished Temple, that most
unique structure is looming up, and speaking
to the Latter-day Saints of a grand and impor-
tant FUTURE! And now the eye rests on the
elegant towers of the Assembly Hall, on the
same block as the Temple; then wanders to the
left, and rests upon the large and well-designed
Theatre; its internal arrangements denote a
consideration for the comfort and accommoda-
tion of the artists who may occupy it, and is a
building worthy of the metropolis of Utah.
Fine and beautiful private dwellings abound in
this city of the desert; and reflections naturally
fill the mind of the beholder (unless it is a
shallow or a barren one) that but a few years
ago nothing but sagebrush and a few wild In-
dians were the produce and the occupants of
this region, now so fertile, and thickly inhab-
ited by an industrious and most intelligent peo-
ple, made so by the blessing of God upon a poor
and obscure people, who came to it for the sole
purpose of endeavoring to worship Him "in
spirit and in truth," to gather up and prepare
them for the second coming of their Lord; to
lay aside "the pomps and vanities of the world,"
and all its hollow ways, and to become as "a
beacon set upon a hill, that cannot be hid."
Such was their sole design; this has been the de-
sign of all who have gathered to the nucleus.
And many of the rich and intelligent, and those
educated in high schools and reared in refine-
ment and luxury, have read and heard and drank
into the spirit that broods over this singular peo-
ple and have brought all and gladly cast in their
lot and become one with the pioneers chosen
and ordained of God for a mighty purpose.
Watch for it, ye nations, for it will surely
come; yes, is on the way with rapid strides.
	Dear reader, do you realize that you and I
are on the summit of Ensign Peak? and that
we are having a nice talk to ourselves? Listen!
I feel like Peter—he desired to build an altar.
Were I rich and had permission, I would build
a small Temple, or Kioske on the very place
where we are now standing; it shonld not be
more than sixteen or eighteen feet in length,
and should be octagon in its form, having a
Pagoda top; it should have four doorways, but
no doors; it would not need windows, but it
must have seats by the walls and a table in
the centre!
	I once spent a whole Sabbath day up there—
a lovely day in the lovely month of May;
there, with three choice friends, we held a spir-
itual "communion of Saints." That day (in
my mind) I laid the foundation of the above.
Years have passed—In spirit I am often there,
for it is a conspicuous object from my window,
and I echo the words of David, "Had I the
wings of a dove," I would refresh my mind in
the pure, untainted air of Ensign Peak.
	Jan. 18, 1882.


Mrs. Mary E. Haggart will present the Wo-
man Suffrage question before the Kentucky
Legislature during the present session. She is
an able, earnest and very efficient advocate of
the cause.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]		
SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO.

		BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY

	The following correspondence between my
father and mother may prove interesting to
others, more particularly to the ones who were
connected with the Church in an early day and
know something of its history. The first, writ-
ten by my mother, is in answer to father's, and
it expresses the joy and consolation which noth-
ing but this Gospel brings; and this is enjoyed
by every true Latter-day Saint.
	"In every condition, in sickness, in health,
	In poverty's vale, or abounding in wealth,
﻿	At home or abroad, on the land or the sea,
	As thy days may demand so thy succor shall be."
					"COMMERCE, Feb. 2, 1840.
	"My Dear Husband:- I have received your
letter of January 27, which gave me great joy;
not to hear of your sickness, for that pains my
heart, but that you have been an instrument
in the hands of God of converting some of my
dear kindred to a knowledge of the truth. Yea,
I feel that this is a recompense for all my pri-
vations in having you gone from me; for how
great in the sight of God is the worth of one
soul. Is it possible that my dear brothers has
become a praying man? do you think he has
got the root of the matter in him, so that he
will hold out to the end? If so, what an un-
speakable blessing!
	You have very kindly offered me the privi-
lege of visiting my friends the coming summer;
at the first thought my heart leaped for joy,
but upon more mature consideration, I think
perhaps it would not be wisdom. I should
have to sell everything we have to bear our
expenses, and then to be visiting so long with
the children, it would be quite a task; and if
I should get ever so tired of it, I should have
no home, nor anything to keep house with. I
feel as you do about settling in Kirtland; I
cannot think of changing my good neighbors
here for the society of those who are at variance
one with the other. There is a perfect union
here, and we have meetings at our house twice
a week. But I cannot make up my mind what
I shall do until Joseph gets home from Wash-
ington; I shall take counsel from him. It will
then be time enough to let you know.
	You will be so long getting to your journey's
end, I very much fear that you will not get
home next fall. The time seems long, and I
want to hear from you often. I feel more anx-
ious about your poor health; I long to get one
letter that will not give the painful intelligence
that you have been sick again. * * * *
	"William is very anxious to go East, and no
wonder, for he has not been able to do a day's
work this winter, and thinks he never shall if
he stays here.  * * I have been sorely af-
flicted with a cancer wart in the palm of my
hand, but I thank the Lord it is now as well as
ever. I often think that the hand of affliction
is not taken from you, or we should all be well,
for your faith would be stronger; but I have
great cause to be thankful, for through the
kindness and generosity of our neighbors we
are made comfortable for food and wood.
	"Brother Don C. Smith called in and saw me
writing, and wished me to give you his respects;
also Bro. Charles C. Rich. He and family
have been very kind to me; I think they are
the best of neighbors. * * Our children talk
much about their poor father, and long to see
him. They join with me in love.
			"From your affectionate wife,
				VILATE KIMBALL."
	The next received from father  was dated
New York, Feb. 19, 1840. He says:
	"My health is much better and my spirits
good. I feel to press forward in the name of
Jesus Christ. I am sensible that the Lord will

			[Column 2]
try His Saints to the uttermost, for it seems as
thought he devil was determined to destroy my
life and the lives of my brethren, the Twelve;
but they all seem to have good courage as yet.
Brother Brigham fell and hurt himself quite
bad, but is getting better, and his health is im-
proving. Brother George A. Smith has the
chills yet and is quite poorly. Brothers Orson
and Parley enjoy good health. * * *
	"While in Mendon I preached four times,
and had many calls to go and preach in other
towns and places. Brother Solomon did not-
go to hear me; I think I never saw him more
set against this work; I did not stay with him
but four or five nights. The sun of peace did
not abide there. and I felt greatly distressed
while with him. In Victor I had several calls
to go to Pike to preach. After being much
wrought upon I consented; William and Mary
went with me. We got to Adolpus Hewet's
the first day of February; I never saw a per-
son more pleased thatn his wife was to see me;
said she had been calling on the Lord that He
would send me there. Sunday morning we
went to the Christian Chapel. * * They
gave out an appointement for me to preach
Monday evening; said they were willing that I
should preach, because they were in such a cold
state I could have no effect upon them. The
house was crowded. My text was the Second
Epistle of John, the 9th and 10th verses.
When I was almost through speaking, two of
the ministers came crawling into the pulpit. I
gave them permission to speak. One (a Bap-
tist priest) rose up and found fault with me for
preaching from the Bible. When he had set
down I rose and answered him. Then one of
the others rose up, till four of the ministers
spoke. I answered all of them, and they were
confounded and began rather to make ridicule.
My speaking once, caused such an excitement
that it took four to put it down; and their ris-
ing made it worse, for it opened the eyes of the
people. I baptized Hewet's wife, and many
believed.  * * *
	"We returned to Victor on the 7th, and I
left there on the 10th, arriving in Albany on
the 12th. Found Wheeler there (a brother-in-
law), and stayed with him that night at the
Hotel; he paid my fare and said if I would
stay one week he would pay my bills. He
thought me very unwise to go any farther. * *
 "Next day I took coach for New York; the
fare was nine dollars. Went upon the east
side of the river, crossed the Catskill Moun-
tains; took three days to get to Jersey City.
When I got there I had not one penny left,
and they would not let me pass without paying
twenty-five cents. I told them I was out of
money, and there was a gentleman gave me a
quarter, and I crossed the river into New York
at nine o'clock in the evening. Went to the
Western Hotel and pawned my trunk for my
stopping over night. Next morning went and
found old Mr. Fordham, who directed me to
Brother Parley's, where I found Orson and
Brigham; were all glad to see me. This was
Sunday, and in the afternoon I met and
preached to one hundred and fifty of the
Saints. It was a great pleasure to meet with
them; they were very kind to me, and gave me
money to redeem my truuk. * *
	"I ate but one meal a day on my way to
New York- this was for the want of money-
but I neither went hungry nor athirst.
	"I received your letter of Nov. 3, which had
lain in the office for a long time. It was a
great comfort to learn that you and the chil-
dren were so much better. May God grant
the belssing of health to rest upon you and the
children forever. * * * Brother Orson
Pratt and myself were called upon to visit a
very sick woman; she could not turn herself in
bed. We anointed her with oil in the name of
the Lord, and she was healed and made whole.
She did not belong to the Church, nor her hus-

			[Column 3]
band; but in two days after she and husband
were baptized, and fourteen others.
	"Brothers Woodruff, Taylor, Clark, Mulner,
White and Turley have sailed for England.
	"Tell my dear little children that I am glad
to hear that they are faithful to pray for their
father."
	The following is from his last letter before
crossing the ocean:
			"NEW YORK, March 5, 1840.
	"My Dear Companion:-This day I received
your letter of Feb. 2; with feelings of joy. I
went to the office every day, and had nearly
given up the chase. I feel thankful that you
and the children are alive. My health is im-
proving; is much better than when I wrote
last. My labor is quite hard; I have to go to
meeting every night, and don't get to bed till
twelve or one o'clock; this overcomes me once
in a while. The Lord is here in this city, and
the honest in heart are enquiring the way to
heaven; there are calls on all sides to come
and preach. We are to sail next Saturday for
England, on the Patrick Henry, if the Lord
will. We were disappointed in not going
aboard the Garrick; they would not take any
passengers, could make more to carry freight.
Owing to being detained, we have Parley to go
with us. * * I have received great kind-
ness since  I came to this city, and also my
brethren.
	"You wanted to know if your brother Wil-
liam had the root of the matter in him. I can
say, yes; I never saw one more so. You know
that he is a go-ahead man and has a mind of
his own. He has a great desire to see you and
have you teach him of the things of the king-
dom. * * * I want you to come and visit
with our friends, but I don't want to settle in
the East unless times change.
	"You did not say anything about that little
black-eyed girl that lives with you. Tell Wil-
liam to be a good boy, for the Lord will heal
him. I feel that He will bless you all with
health. Give my love to our little ones, and
to Brothers Joseph and Hyrum, and all others
who love the Lord.
		Your affectionate husband,
					HEBER C. KIMBALL."
	Witness the sacrifice and continuous self-
denial of the servants of God, rsisting and
turning away from every temptation, and the
allurements of a worldly nature; struggling
with poverty, disease and death, and all the
other untoward circumstances; traveling with-
out purse or scrip to the nations and islands of
the sea, to preach the faith and doctrines of an
unpopular sect. Where (except the Mormons)
are the ministers who have professed Christian-
ity that have ever manifested such indomitable
courage, perseverance and endurance for the 
sole purpose of preaching salvation to the hon-
est in heart? The Twelve Apostles understood
their grand and glorious mission, which had
been given them by revelation through the
Prophet Joseph Smith; and though conscious
of their weakness, they feared nothing, for
their strength lay in the arm of Jehova; 
though they were often brought to death's door,
He was their refuge, and they rejoiced not-
withstanding their afflictions. "Greater love
hath no man than this, that a man lay down his
life for his friends;" and as Jesus said, "There
is no man that hath left houses, or brethren, or
sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children,
or lands for my sake and the Gospel, but he shall
receive a hudnred fold now, and in the world to
come eternal life." "Blessed is he that endur-
eht temptation; for when he is tried he shall
receive the crown of life which the Lord hath
promised them that love Him."
			To be continued.


LADIES remember the Municipal Election
on Monday, Feb. 13.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 131


JOHN MILTON ON HIS BLINDNESS.

[The following sublime and very affecting production
was found among the remains of our great epic poet,
and is published in the Oxford edition of Milton's
Works.]
			I am old and blind!
Men point at me as smitten by God's frown;
Afflicted and deserted of my kind;
		Yet I am not bowed down.

		I am weak yet strong:
I murmer not that I no longer see;
Poor, old, and helpless, I the more belong,
		Father Supreme, to Thee.

		 O Merciful One!
When men are farthest then art Thou most near;
When friends pass by, my weakness shun,
		The chariot I hear.

		Thy glorious face
Is ever towards me; and its holy light
Shines in upon my dwelling-place,
	    And there is no more night!

		On my bended knee
I recognize Thy purpose, clearly shown—
My vision Thou hast dimm'd, that I may see
		Thyself alone!

		I have nought to fear;
Thy darkness is the shadow of Thy wing,
Beneath it I am almost sacred, here
		Can come no evil thing.

		Oh! I seem to stand
Trembling, where foot of mortal ne'er hath been;
Wrapp'd in the radiance of thy sinless land,
		What eye hath never seen.

		Visions come and go,
Shapes of resplendent beauty round me throng;
From angel lips I seem to hear the flow
		Of soft and holy song.

		It is nothing now,—
When heaven is opening on my sightless eyes—
When airs of Paradise refresh my brow—
		The earth in Darkness lies.

		In a purer clime
My being fills with rapture; waves of thought
Roll in upon my spirit; strains sublime
		Break over me unsought.

		Give me my lyre!
I feel the stirrings of a gift divine;
Within my bosom glows unearthly fire
		Set by no skill of mine.


[Column 1]
A DISTINGUISHED WOMAN.

ZINA D. H. YOUNG.

CONTINUED.

	After the return of Sister Zina from the Is-
lands she spent most of her time in visiting
among the people, attending meetings of the
Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary
Associations, and assisting in encouraging and
strengthening the various organizations in
company with Sister Eliza and their co-workers.
The promotion of sericulture was not forgotten
or neglected as she traveled in the several
wards and settlements throughout Utah. She
also continued her labors as Priestess in the
House of the Lord, in connection with Sister
Eliza; in fact, these two women have been for
many years closely allied in their work among
the people. Wherever there is sickness, death,
calamity or sorrow, they are sent for almost in-
variably, and if health and strength permit
they accept the mission willingly. The names
of Eliza and Zina have been almost as much
associated together as those of Brigham and
Heber were in public works of benefit to Zion.
	In the Fall of 1880 these two sisters decided
to go South to St. George together, to perform
some labors in the Temple, and to visit the or-
ganizations of women and children, wherever
it could be made practicable upon the route.
In November, 1880, they journeyed southward,
holding meetings by the way, and endeavoring

[Column 2]
to stimulate the sisters in assisting to build up
Zion.
	After they had been a short time engaged in
the Temple at St. George, they took several
trips out into different settlements, some of
them many miles away, necessitating camping
out at night; but with all the fortitude of pio-
neer women they bravely moved forward, and
traveled over a thousand miles in this way, in
vehicles drawn by horses over some of the
worst roads and through many disagreeable
and dangerous places, and as Sister Eliza said
after returning home, "where the curse hadn't
begun to be taken off."
	The two traveling companions, Eliza and
Zina, after having journeyed through the South,
even in very remote places and in adjacent
Territories, arrived home again the last day of
March, and were met at the depot by a party
of thirty ladies, who escorted them to the Lion
House. There was a delicious supper awaiting
them, and during the evening poems and ad-
dresses were read, and short speeches made, ex-
pressing the esteem and love of the sisters and
their appreciation of the life and labors of these
eminent women.
	In the Tabernacle at the April Conference
following, Sister Zina was sustained by the
unanimous vote of the people as Sister Eliza's
First Counselor in the General Presidency of
the Relief Societies. Sister Zina has still con-
tinued her public efforts in behalf of Zion, go-
ing among the people and speaking whenever
and wherever opportunity offered, or woman's
aid was needed. She had long desired to visit
her old home in the State of New York, and
gather up records of her relatives and friends,
that she might officiate for the dead when the
time should come to do so, and exhort the liv-
ing to examine the principles of the Everlast-
ing Gospel; or, in fact, she earnestly wished to
present the truth to them, as error concerning
the Latter-day Saints was already in the field.
An opportunity offered for her to accompany
her foster son, Willard Young, a Lieutenant
in the U. S. Service at West Point, on his re-
turn to his post after a short visit at home in
Salt Lake. Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson was going
to New York to spend a little time in her
medical pursuits, in order to increase her
knowledge of the improved methods of sur-
gery, for the benefit of the people, and it was
not considered best for her to go alone. Ac-
cordingly, it was arranged between them to
travel together, and to speak upon the "Mor-
mon" question on the platform, as the Lord
should open up the way. Previous to going
East, they were blest and set apart by the First
Presidency of the Church. They left this city
on the 20th of August and went direct to New
York City. After remaining there a few days,
Sister Zina went to Jefferson County, in the
northern part of the State, where an aged aunt
of hers resides, and also to an adjacent town
to visit a younger brother, from whom she had
been many years separated. She was very cor-
dially received by her relatives and many of
their friends. She was invited to speak at
Sunday Schools and Temperance meetings, and
was always glad to be able to defend "Mormon-
ism" and advance principles of our faith.

To be continued.


IN HONOR OF BISHOP A. McRAE.

	January 19, 1882, being the twenty-fifth an-
niversary of the Bishopric of Brother A. Mc-
Rae, the members of his ward, wishing to show
their love and respect for, and their apprecia-
tion of his faithful services for so many years,
arranged a grand surprise party in the 11th
Ward schoolhouse, which was handsomely dec-
orated for the occasion. Over the stand and
above the Bishop's picture was the motto, "Our
Bishop, Jan. 19, 1857—1882,” Most of the


Ward were present, filling the house to over-
flowing. Among the invited guests were Presi-
dent Taylor and wife, Apostle Lorenzo Snow,
Apostle E. Snow and wife, Bishop Edward
Hunter and Counselors, L. W. Hardy and R.
T. Burton, Prest. J. E. Taylor, Hon. C. W.
Penrose, Judge Z. Snow and wife, and Bishop
Geo. Dunford and wife. Several tables run-
ning the whole length of the hall were covered
with the luxuries of the earth. At half past
one the guests were seated at the tables await-
ing the arrival of the Bishop, who, with his
wife soon entered, escorted by Prest. J. E. Tay-
lor. The choir greeted him with “Hail to our
humble feast,” while he wended his way to the
stand, after which they sang a piece entitled
“Our Bishop,” transposed especially for the
occasion, which was very touching. Then
prayer was offered and the feast partaken of.
	Dinner over, Coun. J. H. Felt, in behalf of
the members of the Ward, with a few appro-
priate remarks, presented the Bishop with a
beautiful watchchain and locket, with the en-
graving, “Presented to Alex. McRae on the
25th anniversary of his Bishopric.,' Mrs. M.
A. B. Freeze, in behalf of the Y. M. and Y. L.
M. I. Associations of the Ward, also presented
the Bishop with a handsomely framed likeness
of himself, accompanied with a few fitting
words. The Bishop responded by making a
kind and feeling speech, expressive of his grat-
itude for the good feeling manifested toward
him, and his desire to ever be worthy the good
will of all who love God and work righteous-
ness. Mrs. M. A. B. Freeze then read a poem
which she had composed for the occasion.
Speeches were then made by Prest. Taylor,
Apostles L. and E. Snow, Bishop Edward
Hunter, Brothers J. E. Taylor and W. A.
McMaster—the two last named were appointed
Counselors to Bishop McRae at the time he
was ordained to that office. They all bore tes-
timony to the unwavering integrity of the
Bishop, even in the most trying scenes. All
who were members of the Ward twenty-five
years ago were asked to raise the right hand,
when it was found there were only about twenty
present. It was a most enjoyable affair, a gen-
uine surprise and a perfect success in every
particular.							M.


A BILL to confer suffrage on all who can
read and write, passed both branches of the
Italian Legislature December 21, 1881.
	THE Church at Hughendon, which Disraeli
was in the habit of attending, has of late been
most beautifully decorated in memory of the
deceased. Two magnificent stained windows
have been put in, and the chancel wall has
been ornamented with sublime paintings of
prophets, angels and evangelists.
	IT is stated that since the present session ot
Congress eighteen bills have been introduced
into the Senate and House of Representatives
on the Utah question. This does not include
the amendment to the Constitution offered to
suppress the peculiar marriage institution, nor
the various petitions on these subjects sent in
from different parts of the United States.
	GOVERNOR Long, of Massachusetts, in his
Annual Message to the Legislature, on Thurs-
day, January 5, 1882, made the following
brief but emphatic reference to Woman Suf-
frage:
	"I repeat my conviction of the right of Wo-
man Suffrage. If the Commonwealth is not
ready to give it in full by a constitutional
amendment, I approve of testing it in munici-
pal elections."
	"The recent judicial decision that woman
cannot practice as an attorney-at-law has also
raised the question whether they can serve, as
some are now most usefully serving, upon pub-
lic statutory boards, except where expressly
provided by law. The decision necessitates
legislation."


132	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly. In Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50; per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY.	-	FEBRUARY 1, 1882.


IN MEMORIAM
	ELIZABETH H. CANNON
"Calm on the bosom of thy God,
Fair spirit, rest thee now!
E'en while with ours thy footsteps trod,
His seal was on thy brow.
Dust to its narrow house beneath,
'Soul to its place on high!
They that have seen thy look in death
No more may fear to die."
	It is ever painful to record the death of a
friend, and doubly so when the circumstances
attending the demise, are of a harrowing and
melancholy character. But yet, when we feel
assured that the one that has passed away has
been ushered into the realms of a higher and
better life, where darkness or evil influences can
never enter, and where there is no sorrow, nor
sighing, nor pain forevermore, there is sweet
consolation to the mourner, and a soothing balm
for the aching and wounded heart, pierced with
anguish at the loss of one beloved. In the in-
stance we chronicle below, the lady was a loving
and honored wife, a tender and devoted mother,
a true and faithful friend.
	Elizabeth Hoagland Cannon, wife of Prest.
George Q. Cannon, now absent in Washington,
as Delegate for Utah departed this life on Tues-
day evening, January 25, at five minutes to ele-
ven o'clock. At the time when she breathed
her last, she was surrounded by a large number
of sorrowing relatives and friends, of whom she
had previously taken a most affecting, final fare-
well, includng each of her children who were
at home, her sister Emily and her brother John.
She enjoyed upon Mary Alice, her eldest daugh-
ter, to be good and true and a guide to the 
younger children. It was a most affecting scene,
especially pathetic when she blessed her little
Sylvester, the youngest child; every one in the
room was melted to tears.
	Concerning her husband, whose presence dur-
ing her illness would have given her the great-
est joy, for she loved him with the intensity of
a noble woman's most ardent devotion, she said
she had no special message, as he comprehended
her feelings, which were too deep for words to
express. She spoke of her two sons now away
upon missions, her eldesr, John Q., laboring in
England, and Abram H. in Switzerland, desir-
ing they might do well, and requested their
uncle, Prest. Angus M. Cannon, to tell them 
not to falter in well doing.
	The scene at the deathbed, and the telegram
previously dictated to her husband-"Remain at
your post. God can raise me up, if it is His
will, in answer to your prayers there, as well as 
if you were here. All is being done for me that
can be done"-were the true index to her mag-
nanimity of soul, and the best expression that
could be given of her integrity to the interest
of the Latter-day Saints.
	During her last illness, which included eleven
days of the most intense suffering, she was
deeply appreciative of all the attentions bestowed
upon her, and displayed uniform patience and
fortitude and a firm and steadfast reliance upon
the Lord, with implicit faith in the prayers of
His servants that she would be restored to health
if it was the will of her Father in heaven.
	Sister Cannon's health had been perceptibly
declining for two years past, and at times she
suffered seriously, although recently she had 
been somewhat better, until Saturday, January
13, when she was taken with the sickness that
terminated fatally. She was a very estimable
woman, and in many respects a remarkable one,
particularly in womanly courage under trials
where sublime heroism is needed, and she also 
possessed great strength of character.
	Elizabeth Hoagland, afterwards wife of George
Q. Cannon, was the daughter of Abram and 
Margaret Quick Hoagland. Her father was for
many years Bishop of the Fourteenth Ward in
this city, which position he filled with honor
and credit to the day of his death. Their daugh-
ter Elizabeth was born in Royal Oak, Oakland
Co., Michigan, Nov. 3, 1835. Her parents em-
braced the Gospel in an early day, and emigrated
to Nauvoo when Elizabeth was but a child.
They left that city at the time of the exodus,
and spent the following winter at Winter Quar-
ters. In the year 1817 they crossed the plains
in Prest. John Taylor's company, and, endruing
the privations and hardships incident to pioneer
life, reached the valley in the month of October.
Subsequently their daughter Elizabeth was for
some time employed in the teaching school in the 
Fourteenth Ward. Miss Hoagland was united
in marriage to Elder George Q. Cannon Decem-
ber 11, 1854. In the following May she accom-
panied her husband on a mission to California,
While there her eldest child, George Q. was
born, and also died there during his infancy.
John Q., the eldest now living, was also born
there. In 1869 Mrs. Cannon went with her hus-
band on a mission to England, leaving her two
little boys, John Q. and Abram H. Cannon, at
home. While in Englanc she had two children
born, a daughter and son; returning home in
the fall of 1863, her little daughter, Georgiana,
a very interesting and attractive little girl, died
on the plains, which was a terrible affliction to
the fond and hopeful mother; and soon after her 
return the little boy was also taken away to that
"better land." She has been the mother of
eleven children; six are now living to mourn
the loss of a most judicious and tender mother,
whose nobility in life and devotion in death has
been an example to her children and to all
Israel.
	Mrs. Cannon has three times accompanied
her husband to Washington during his delegate-
ship, and while there had been universally re-
spected by all who had the pleasure of her ac-
quaintance. She was a woman of great dignity
of character, and by nature eminently fitted to
adorn and elevate society, yet she loved domes-
tic life and avoided public society, except when
duty necessitated her mingling in it. She loved
her friends sincerely, but her children and her
home were ever and always her first considera-
tion. She was very benevolent and sympathetic
in her nature, and extremely kind to all those in
her own and husband's employment. She has
at different times in her life, in the circumstan-
ces in which she had been placed, ministered
great kindness and bestowed much needful at-
tention and meands upon missionaries, who will
ever remember her with feelings of deepest 
gratitude, and speak of her with greatest reve-
rence.
	The funeral of Mrs. Cannon was held in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms on Sunday,
at 10 a.m., according to instructions received
by telegram from Hon. George Q. Cannon, and
none of his family wore any of the outward em-
blems or semblance of mourning, complying
with his wishes in this particular. At the time
appointed the coffin, which was covered with
lovely flowers, was born into the hall, which
was beautifully draped in white for the occasion,
followed by Prest. A. M. Cannon and her own im-
mediate family, after them a large number of the
relatives of herself and husband and many in-
timate friends. The large hall and both wings
were crowded to their utmost capacity, hundreds
standing, outside and in, during the whole time.
The services were conducted by the Bishop of
the Ward. Singing by the ward choir, "O Lord, re-
sponsive to thy call." Prayer by Coun. D. H.
Wells. Singing, "Mourn not the dead who
peaceful lay." Remarks by Presidents W.
Woodruff, Joseph F. Smith and John Taylor,
each of the speakers bearing testimony to the
excellent qualitites and exemplary life of the
deceased. Singing, "Come to me." Prayer by
Bishop Burton.
	Sister Cannon was buried beside her children
in the Salt Lake cemetery. The grave was dedi-
cated by Coun. D. H. Wells. She has left a record
that her husband and children may well be
proud of, and all Israel cannot but admire
	"Of all the thoughts of God that are
	Borne inward unto souls afar,
	Along the Psalmist's music deep,
	Now tell me if that any is,
	For gifts or grace, surpassing this-
	'He giveth His beloved sleep?'
	"'Sleep soft, beloved,' we sometimes say,
	But have no tune to charm away
	Sad dreams that through the eyelids creep
	But never doleful dream again
	Shall break the happy slumber when
	'He giveth His beloved sleep.'
	"And friends, dear friends, -when it shall be
	That this low breath has gone from me,
	And round my bier ye come to weep,
	Let one, most loving of you all,
	Say, 'Not a tear must o'er her fall-
	'He giveth His beloved sleep.''


ARMED FORCES.

	The Mormon question still seems greatly agi-
tating the public mind. Severe measures and
the enforcement of them with armed forces is
the popular clamor of some of the so-called
Christian sects. In this consideration one might
with all propriety ask, Is the nation retrograding?
Are the American people going back to barbar-
ism, the days of the Inquisition, or the guillo-
tine? Is the spirit of mobocracy and riot gaining
the ascendency among an enlightened people,
when men are preaching liberality from the pul-
pit and the press? Strange contradiction this!
A paradox indeed! America, the proud land of
boasted religious freedom and tolerance, driving
one class of her citizens at the point of the bayo-
net, unless they surrender their consciences into
the keeping of the popular leaders. Let them
be sure that even could they be compelled to
submit to rigid laws, which deprived them of the
practice of principles specified as disloyal, yet it
would only be another illustration of ignorant
persecution for the promulgation of true princi-
ples, such as Galileo suffered for ignominiously,
and these great modifiers would find, in the near
fulure, that "the world still moves;" that pro-
gression is eternal, and "truth, though crushed
to earth, will rise again."
	What evidence have the enemies of this peo-
ple that Congress is justified in making special
laws, or an amendment to the Constitution, to
promote virtue and morality out here in the
Rocky Mountains among the Mormons, espe-
cially to the neglect of other subjects of national
importance that demand the immediate atten-
tion of that honarable body? Are all the great


questions of the day to be set aside, while “Mor-
monism” and “Mormons” are thrown at the
President and Congress in every conceivable
way, in bills, petitions, amendments, circulars,
letters, newspapers, &c. Has the defendant no
claims in this matter? Are the whole body of
Latter-day Saints not entitled to a fair hearing?
When men's lives are the sacrifice demanded,
when armies are talked of to settle matters of
dispute, it is understood there are some means
of self defense; but in this case, the United
States vs. Mormons, there is a fearful odds; for
the U. S. have large regiments of soldiers armed
and equipped, while the "Mormons" are defence-
less so far as arms or artificial support is con-
cerned. But remember, to the innocent, for
every man there is an innumerable host of in-
visible beings, clothed in invincible armor, to
defend the Saints of God.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	VALENTINE Day approacheth, as the shop win-
dows bear witness. Choice and elegant, tender
and comic, in great abundance.
	THOSE desirous of communicating with the
General President of Y. L. M. I. A. should di-
rect to Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor, P. O. Box 629,
Salt Lake City, Utah.
	WE call attention to the request made in the
article entitled "Some Facts," and signed (Gen-
tile) published in our Jan. 15 No., and invite the
"Mormon" ladies to answer through the paper.
	Reports of R. S., Y. L., and P. A. Conferences
held in Bear Lake and Juab Counties were re-
ceived too late for publication in this issue, but
will appear in our next. Report of Ladies' Con-
ference in Sanpete Stake is also crowded out.
	By letter from Mink Creek we learn that on
the 12th of January, 1882, a Relief Society was
organized there, also a Y. L. M. I. A. and Pri-
mary Association. Please forward names of offi-
cers, by whom organized and number of mem-
bers.
	Saturday, Jan. 21, was the anniversary of the
birth of Sister Eliza R. S. Smith, Zion's Poetess,
whom we designate as the "Elect Lady." On
that day she attained the advanced age of
seventy-eight years. She is in her usual good
health, except just at present suffering from a
severe cold. May her useful life be prolonged
until her destiny upon the earth has been ful-
filled, and she can return home into the man-
sion prepared for her reception, crowned with all
the honors that pertain to a celestial fulness and
exaltation.
	A YOUNG ladies' Mutual Improvement Asso-
ciation was organized in the 14th Ward Jan. 16,
1882, Bishop Thomas Taylor presiding. He gave
good counsel to the young ladies, and said that
himself and Counselors would do all they could
to assist them. Said he liked the term Superin-
tendent for the presiding officer better than
President; thought it more appropriate. The
following officers were elected: Superintendent
Nellie Colebrook; Counselors, Mattie Horne and
Ella-Wilcox; Secretary, Lizzie Green; Treasurer,
Bealah Woodruff.
	ON Tuesday evening, Jan. 24, a special meet-
ing of the 13th Ward convened at the Ward As-
sembly Rooms, Bishop M. M. Atwood presiding.
Counselors N. Empey and F. Platte were pres-
ent, also H. G. Park, President Y. M. M. I. A.
of the Ward, President J. H. Felt and Coun.
George C. Lambert of the Stake organization of
Y. M. M. I. A. were present by invitation, also
M. A. B. Freeze and her Counselor, Louie Felt,
of the Stake organization of Y. L. M. I. A.
President Park tendered his resignation to the

[Column 2]

meeting, which was accepted, and the Bishop
proceeded to organize the young men and women
separately. Remarks were made by Elders J.
H. Felt and G. C. Lambert, and by Prest. Joseph
E. Taylor, of the Presidency of the Salt Lake
Stake, concerning the order and benefit of these
organizations; also by Sisters E. B. Wells, M.
A. B. Freeze and L. Felt, The following officers
were elected fer the Y. L. M. I. A. of the 13th
Ward: President, Miss Ruth Woolley; Counsel-
ors, Miss Kate Wells and Miss Alpha Eldredge;
Secretary, miss Loue Wells; Assistant Secre-
tary, Miss Louie Naylor; Treasurer, Miss Bessie
Spencer.
	We had the pleasure of attending the R. S.
Quarterly Conference of Davis Stake on Friday,
Jan. 20, held at Centreville Meeting House, in
company with Mrs. M. I. Horne. Meeting con-
vened at 10a.m., Mrs. Sarah I. Holmes presid-
ing. Her Counselors, Mrs. Mary S. and Nancy
A. Clark, were present, also the Secretary, Miss
Minerva Richards. The minutes and reports
were interesting and creditable. Verbal reports
were given by the respective officers from most
of the several branches of the Stake. Bishop
N. Cheney, Patriarch Tibbets and many other
brethren were present. Addresses were deliv-
ered by several of the local sisters, and by Sisters
Horne and Wells, on subjects calculated to en-
courage and strengthen the sisters in the Gospel
work.
	After the adjournment of the R. S. Confer-
ence a Conference of the Primary Associations
of Centreville was held at the same place, Mrs.
Aurelia S. Rogers presiding. The children
seemed greatly interested in their meetings,
and their singing was excellent. They answered
the questions asked them very promptly. The
Bishop manifested great interest in teh labors of
the sisters in both the Relief Society and Pri-
mary Associations. The children of the two P.
A's at that place held two concerts last summer,
and from the proceeds gave fifty dollars to the
new Meeting House. They are now engaged in
helping to make rag carpeting for the building.
	A Conference of the Young People's Asso-
ciations was held in the Assembly Hall Sunday,
Jan. 22, 1882, commencing at ten a.m., Supt.
Joseph H. Felt presiding. After the devotional
exercises, minutes of last Conference were read,
and a statistical and financial report of each As-
sociation. The speakers were Elders J. H. Felt
and H. Moyle, Sisters E. S. Taylor, M. A. B.
Freeze and E. B. Wells. The ladies in speaking
referred to the greater benefits resulting from
separate organizations, but also expressed them-
selves as favorable to conjoint meetings once a
month. Mrs. Wells made a suggestion that a
committee be appointed to secure lecturers for 
the Young Ladies’Associations. Counselor G.
C. Lambert presented the general authorities
and Stake officers of the Y. M. M. I. A., who
were unanimously sustained. John A. Evans
was appointed Secretary in place of John Q.
Cannon, who is absent on a mission to England.
	Afternoon session: After the opening exer-
cises, Coun. G. C. Lambert announced that the
suggestion made in the morning with regard to
a ladles lecture committee had been approved,
and accordingly Sisters E. B. Wells, E. S. Tay-
lor and L. H. Miner were sustained as such com-
mittee. Apostle Wilferd Woodruff addressed
the congregation for a short time, and was fol-
lowed by Prest. Joseph F. Smith; both speakers
were Inspired by the Spirit of God.	
	Prest. John Taylor occupied a few minutes,
during which he said, “We want to raise a race
of men and women whom the ancient Apostles,
Prophets and men of God will not be ashamed ;
of. And we call upon the youth of Zion to
maintain their integrity, purity and sobriety,

[Column 3]

and seek to honor God, that they may be worthy
sons and daughters of Zion."
	Elders J, F. Wells, R. B. Young and R. C.
Badger each spoke a few minutes, expressing,
the firm conviction that the youth of Zion would
unflinchingly maintain the faith of their fathers
and mothers. Conference adjourned subject to
the call of the general or Stake officers. Choir
sang an anthem. Benediction.


OBITUARIES.

	Mrs. Martha J. Coray, the wife of Howard
Coray, passed behind the vail on the 14th Dec.,
1881, at 11 p. m., at Provo. She died as she had
lived, a strong and firm believer in the Gospel
as revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith.
She was born on the 3d day of June,1821, Boone
County, Kentucky. Her father, when she was
a mere child, moved to Carthage, Ohio. Her
straightforward and honest way of doing things,
joined with more than ordinary clearness of
perception and understanding of matters and
things in general for one of her tender age, at-
tracted the attention of some of the most noted
of the place, for instance, Rev. Walter Scott,
Levi H. Jameson and others, and at the age of
about ten she was placed in charge of a class,
much older than herself, in a Sunday School,
and she filled the position so ably, that she won
for herself no small degree of praise. At the
age of twelve she applied for admission by bap-
tism into the Campbellite Church; but on ac-
count of her age, they held the matter a short
time under advisement before receiving her,
notwithstanding she was altogether qualified,
so far as information and a sound, moral, Chris-
tian character was concerned. Very early in
life she evinced a character in a degree some-
what rare for one of her sex—that is, of decid-
edly doing her own thinking; hence, before
adopting any principle of religion, law or politics,
whether proposed by father, husband, priest, or
king, she must clearly see and understand for
herself the righteousness and consistency of the
matter. Her father moved to Hancock Co., Ill.,
and was living there when the Mormons were
driven out of Missouri in 1838; and being a very
kind and hospitable man, gave employment to
quite a number of the Saints, besides furnishing
several families houses to live in. This brought
her face to face with Mormonism. Mingling
and associating more or less with those families
and the men in her father’s employ, she attended
their meetings and heard Brother George A.
Smith preach, who, as she said, set forth the
principles of the Gospel in such a plain and un-
mistakable manner as to completely upset all her
Campbellism and convert her to the principles
of what is called Mormonism. So, in January,
1840, a hole was cut through the ice, and herself
and a few others were baptized, the weather be-
ing so cold at the time that immediately after
one was baptized, the place would skim over
with ice. I mention this circumstance as it
evinces in some degree the courageous determi-
nation of the woman to grapple with and over-
come difficulties that interposed between her
and a religious, conscientious duty, exact and
truthful in all her business transactions in life.
After joining the Church, she soon became ac-
quainted with the Prophet Joseph; she said that
before he was pointed out to her as the man, she
could discern something in him of such a pecu-
liar character that she knew who he was, and
from her unbounded confidence in him as the
man of God, she took in common hand every
discourse that she heard him preach, and has
carefully preserved them. Bro. Geo. A. Smith
said that she had taken more pains to preserve
the sayings of the great Prophet, and had accom-
plished more in that direction than any other


[Column 1]

woman in the Church. She was married to
Howard Coray Feb. 6, 1841, and was the mother
of twelve children, seven sons and five daugh-
ters, all of whom have grown up to man and
womanhood, and it can be said in all truthful-
ness that there is not one profligate son nor way-
ward daughter among the whole of them; and a
liberal share can be accorded to her in their
bringing up, education, &c. She has given
much gratuitous labor in behalf of the young
and rising generation, their proper training and
education. She was Mother Smith's amanuen-
sis in writing a book entitled, "The History of
Joseph Smith, by his Mother, Lucy Smith."
She has received about all the blessings that are
conferred in the House of the Lord, and has
gone to await a glorious resurrection. In Octo-
ber, 1875, she was selected by Pres. B. Young as
one of the Trustees of the B. Y. Academy, which 
appointment I believe she filled altogether satis-
factorily. The funeral services were held Snu-
day morning, Dec. 18, at 10 o'clock, in the Tab-
ernacle at Provo.—[Ex.
	Mrs. Coray was an occasional contributor to
the EXPONENT; a very able and vigorous writer.
She felt strongly, and she expressed herself im-
pressively in speaking or writing. She spoke
intelligently on all subjects, never waiting a
moment for words, for she possessed in a rare de-
gree the gift of language. She was pretty well
versed in the law, and political economy was
one of her favorite themes. She had many true
friends and a large number of relatives, who
sincerely deplore her loss here, but she has gone
where a wider sphere of usefulness awaits her,
and where there is no more pain forever and
ever.
	Died, in Ogden, Dec. 5, 1881, Sister Ellen Mc-
Kay. Deceased was born in London, England,
Jan. 25, 1835. She was baptized into this Church
in 1866, and emigrated to Utah. In 1869 she re-
moved to Ogden, where she remained until her
death. She was a zealous advocate of the prin-
ciples of the Everlasting Gospel, and a firm be-
liever in the order of Celestial Marriage.
	Sister Ellen was a faithful member of the Re-
lief Society, and had been a Teacher in the 2d
Ward Society for nine years, and was also a Sec-
retary for some time, performing every duty and
labor cheerfully. She was ever happy under all
circumstances, buoyant in spirit and very sus-
ceptible of spiritual influences, which made her
a pleasing companion and associate to all those
who possess a reverence for divine things. Our
sister will be greatly missed in her home and in
the Relief Society. She was a woman of great
faith in the healing of the sick by administration
according to the order of the priesthood. Sister
Ellen has gone to the rest that remains to the
people of God, in the blessed hope of a glorious
resurrection.—COM.

	It is with feelings of the deepest sympathy
that we communicate to you the death of one
of our number, Mary Mettie Terry, who died
Jan. 2, 1882, of quick consumption. She was
the daughter of Andrew and Annie M. Peter-
sen, and was born in Fairview, Nov. 21, 1862;
was the wife of Adolphus Terry, to whom she
was married about two years previous to her de-
cease. Mary was loved and respected by all
who knew her, and during her short stay here
set an example before her associates well worthy
of imitation. She took an active part in the
Sunday School as teacher and in the Y. L. M.
I. A. as treasurer, and though we deeply mourn
the loss of so dear a friend, yet we feel to say,
"The Lord's will be done."

	Dear sister Mary, we bid you adieu!
		Though we feel a regret thus to part, 

[Column 2]

	We've this consolation: you've ever been true
		And kept a brave spirit and heart.

	Then weep not, nor mourn, for her that we miss,
		Her mission on earth being ended,
	She has gone to a realm of infinite bliss,
		Where truth, love and beauty are blended.

	ANNIE D. CHRISTIANSON.
Fairview, Jan. 18, 1882.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

SPRINGVILLE PRIMARY.

	A meeting of the 2d Ward Primary Asso-
ciation of Springville was held Saturday, Jan.
21, 1882, the birthday of our beloved and ven-
erable elect lady, Sister Eliza R. S. Smith.
After the exercises, which consisted of select
readings, recitations, dialogues, reading of man-
uscript paper, "The Children's Gem," and in-
teresting remarks by Sister Ann Bringhurst,
the tables were uncovered, displaying a boun-
teous repast for the little folks, which was in-
deed a joyful surprise to them. After the
blessing was asked upon the food, the children
were invited to partake thereof, which they
gladly did, enjoying the feast and each other's
society. The number of children was fifty-five.
Much credit is due to the President and Coun-
selors of the Association for their untiring ef-
forts to please and benefit the children. After
the children had partaken of the dinner, the
President and lady officers and a few friends
also partook of the good things, and all ex-
pressed themselves as being well pleased with
what the sisters had done for the children, and
hoped their efforts would be crowned with suc-
cess in training them in virtue and wisdom.
	Circumstances prevented the Bishop and his
Counselors from being present.
	Sarah Waters, President.
	Sarah Mainwaring,
	Elizabeth Bramall, Counselors.
	Susannah' Wakefield, Secretary.

		MANASSAH, COLORADO
	The Y. L. M. I. A. of this place was organized
on the 17th of October, 1880, a special meeting
being called for the purpose of organizing the
young people; President Silas S. Smith presid-
ing. After the usual opening exercises the
Young Men's accosication was organized; after
which Sister Somantha T. Boice was chosen
President of the Young Ladies' Association.
The organization was also completed at that
time, but on account of some of the officers
moving away, some changes have been made
and the officers are at present as follows: So-
mantha T. Boice, President; Alice Sellars and
Mary Haggard, Counselors; Letitia Thomas,
Secretary; Bettie Sellars, Treasurer.
	We have twenty members enrolled, who seem
to be alive to their duties in learning all they
can, so that they may be enabled to assist in
carrying on this great work that we are en-
gaged in; our President is ever ready and will-
ing to do her duty, and is in earnest in her en-
deavors in trying to help build up the king-
dom and instill into the minds of the young
principles of righteousness. Since our organ-
ization we have also been enabled to acquire
means with which we have bought $14.80
worth of books; also subscribed for the Wo-
man's Exponent and Juvenile Instructor each
one year; have donated to the poor $2.50, and
we have on hand at present in the treasury
four quilts, for sale or to give to the needy, as
occasion may require. During the summer
months we hold monthly meetings; but at
present we meet with the young men every
Wednesday evening in conjoint meetings, which
are well attended by the members and also


many visitors. We edit a manuscript paper
once a month, which is quite interesting.
	Hoping this will prove satisfactory, I will
close.
	LETITIA M. THOMAS, Sec'y.


THE POWER OF PRAYER.

	Prayer is the key that will unlock the state-
house of knowledge.
	It is the foundation rock of every Christian's
life; and we can safely say that there is no one
that can attain to a position of usefulness in
the kingdom of God without knowledge.
	We learn that our Savior, whom we should
all chose as our pattern, prayed often, and in
the Gospel according to St. Luke, chap. 22,
verses 39 and 40, after He had administered
the last supper to His Apostles, we read: "And
He came out and went, as was His wont, to the
Mount of Olives, and His disciples also fol-
lowed Him; and when He was at the place He
said unto them, 'Pray, that ye enter not into
temptation.'"
	We learn from these few words spoken by
our Savior, that prayer is also a safeguard, that
will withhold us in the hour of temptation,
from doing evil.
	Through prayer, our faith is strengthened
and our powers of comprehension are quick-
ened, and we receive power to discern good
from evil.
	Through prayer, we are led to search for
truth, and learn to love and keep the laws of
righteousness laid down in His Church and
Kingdom, through which we may be brought
back into the holy and divine presence of our 
God.
	Through prayer, the windows of heaven un-
close, and blessings are showered down upon
our heads and upon those we love and pray
for.
	Through prayer, the darkness that had hov-
ered over this earth for ages burst, and the
light of everlasting truth shone forth; for it
was while Joseph Smith, then but a boy, was
praying to God to know which of all the differ-
ent doctrines that he had heard preached was
true, that truth was revealed, that those who
lived in the days of Joseph, the Prophet,
should know the truth, and for generations to
come.
	If you will read the Bible, the Book of Mor-
mon, and other good books, you will learn that
all good and great people were those who
prayed to God; for it is the only way to become
good and great. And; my young friends, it is
well for you to remember, while traveling on
this journey of life, that there is no prison so
dark, no pit so deep, no expanse so broad, that
the Spirit of God cannot enter; and when all
other privileges are denied us, we can pray,
and God will hear us. No one can take this
from us. But remember it is a most precious
gift, it is something that must be cultivated;
and when the still, small voice whispers, "Go
and pray," you must obey; for if you do not, 
the Spirit will be grieved, and the voice in time
becomes silent.
	Should you at any time find yourself over-
whelmed with disappointment and sorrow, re-
member, that although your prayers may be
like the wailings of the most feeble infant, God,
being more loving than the most tender mother,
will hear and answer you. But we cannot say
that He will always answer according to the
desires of your mind; but in His great wisdom
He sees and knows what is for your best good,
and will answer according to His wisdom.
	To the young we will say, be prayerful; ask
God to inspire your hearts with noble aspira-
tions, and to help you to become good and
great in His Church and Kingdom. And
when you are done with this life, may you find
that spirit of peace which was with our Lord


when He appeared to His disciples, after the
resurrection, when He spoke those sweet words,
"Peace be unto you."
	May god give you His Spirit, that you may
seek unto Him, is my prayer, in the name of 
Jesus.  Amen.
	Your loving sister,
		E. G. JONES.
	"Improvement Star."  No. 4, Vol. 1. Manu-
script paper 11th Ward Y. L. M. I. A.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMEN AND TEMPERANCE.

	EDITOR EXPONENT:—In the last number of
your valuable paper, the ruling of the Judge
of the Supreme Court in regard to the liquor
question was referred to, and it was suggested
that every woman who has the welfare of man-
kind at heart should protest against it. I en-
dorse the sentiment with all my heart. It is
my earnest conviction, however, that women
many times bring untold misery upon them-
selves and their offspring by indulging in spir-
ituous liquors in various forms at certain times
in their lives, thus creating an appetite for
strong drink in their children before their
birth, which will be a withering curse to them
all their life long.
	I have heard some women say they could
not do without liquor at certain times, which,
however, with my past experience I do not be-
lieve. To illustrate my belief I will relate an
incident in my own life. My first child was
born in the winter of '48, at Winter Quarters,
and in the opinion of all my friends, I was
very near unto death; and I wish to state em-
phatically in this connection that I was not
snatched from an untimely grave by the use of
alcoholic stimulants in any form, but by the
power of God through the faith of the sisters
who had met at Brother Heber C. Kimball's 
to hold a little prayer meeting, and at the re-
quest of a sister of our family they exercised
their faith and prayers in my behalf; and as a
result I began to improve from that very hour,
and was soon restored to my usual health.
	I would further say on this subject that if
we admit that liquor is sometimes beneficial,
we also know that there is no safety in its use.
If it has ever saved life, it has also been the
great destroyer of the human race. I have
known bright, intelligent and would be useful
men, if they had been able to overcome their
appetite for liquor.
	I have often wondered why this state of
things should exist with intelligent beings, pos-
sessing many of the attributes of the Deity. I
have been told that it is often inherited from
one or both parents. There surely must be a
fearful retribution for those who willfully be-
queathe such a fearful legacy to their innocent
children.
	But for those parents who have acquired the
habit in ignorance of its direful results, and
who have not sufficient stamina to overcome it,
I have much sympathy. My advice to moth-
ers bearing children is to abstain entirely from
the use of alcoholic stimulants, that they may
not be called to account in a coming day for
rearing a generation of drunkards.
	In view of such probable results, I would
far rather a daughter of mine should remain
in single blessedness all her days than become
allied to a young man who is habitually ad-
dicted to the intoxicating cup, even in a mod-
erate degree. Some may think I am too radi-
cal on the subject, but I feel that we have
much at stake in the future welfare of Zion,
and that we should set examples before our
children worthy of their imitation; and if we
fail to overcome our own propensities in the
direction of intemperance, we can hardly ex-
pect our children to do so.
	With these few reflections I will close, hop-


ing the Saints will give this momentous subject
the attention it deserves.
	R. A. W.
Manti, Jan. 17, 1882.


[Column 1]

CELESTIAL MARRIAGE.

	As so much is said at present upon the law
of Celestial Marriage, and so very little under-
stood about it, at least among many of our own
people and those not of our faith, I will en-
deavor to say a few words in relation to this
subject.
	Brother Orson Pratt said, in a discourse up-
on this subject given in Salt Lake City 1869
(page 76 "Does the Bible sanction Polyga-
my?"): "If all the inhabitants of the earth at
the present time were righteous before God,
and both males and females were faithful in
keeping His commandments, and the number
of the sexes of a marriageable age were ex-
actly equal, there would be no necessity for
any such institution; every righteous man could
have his wife, and there would be no overplus
of females." But he further explains, that by
taking the statistics of the census of the differ-
ent States, that there are hundreds of thou-
sands more women than men; one cause of
this being that many more males die under the
age of twenty years than females, while many
lose their lives in war and other employments.
	Brother Pratt also said that God was fight-
ing against the evils and wickedness which are
the result of so many being deprived, by man-
made laws, of fulfilling that first great com-
mand to multiply and replenish the earth; 
hence. He has given a commandment whereby
this can be remedied. For certain reasons best
known to our Heavenly Father, the Nephites
were commanded not to practise this principle.
Brother Orson Pratt said it was because their
numbers were equal when Lehi left Jerusalem.
Some try to take advantage of this, but I think
whatever God commands us to do is binding
upon us, no matter whether any one else ever
practised it or not. The Bible informs us that
in the days when God talked with man, that
this principle was practised, and God honored
those most who did practise it, and speaks of
Abraham as being the father of the faithful.
but if he lived at present, the so-called Chris-
tians would seek to take away every privilege,
and even his life if they could.
	No man can take wives outside of the law
of God and please God, as was the case with
David; God gave him many wives, but in the
case of Uriah he took the wife unto himself
and robbed another; hence, he was under con-
demnation, as is recorded in the 11th and 12th
chapters of Second Samuel. But we find that
after being chastened he took Bathsheba in the
right way, and she was the mother of Solomon,
who was termed the wise king; who was also
honored by God's presence, for He appeared
unto him twice. But he was not so wise that
he kept from sinning, for he took wives from
the nations which were forbidden to the Saints,
and they succeeded in turning him to idolatry.
But nothing is said about its being a sin to take
more wives than one,
	Brother Orson Pratt also mentions in his
remarks about the sister of Moses and others,
who were jealous because Moses had taken the
Ethiopian woman, in addition to the daughter
of Jethro, whom he had taken before in the
land of Midian; that Miriam, his sister, was
smitten with leprosy the moment she began to
complain, and was considered unclean for a
certain number of days.
	I wonder how many cases of leprosy there
would be at present, if every woman was
stricken with it that speaks against Celestial
Marriage.
	I will make one more reference to the Book
of Mormon. The Lord said unto Jacob, in

[Column 2]

connection with other things: "For if I will,
saith the Lord, raise up seed unto myself, I
will command my people; otherwise ye shall
obey these things." This plainly showed there
was a probability that the time would come
when He would command His people otherwise.
	The revelation was given in 1843, and Jo-
seph Smith the Prophet practised it, and young
maidens were sealed to him and lived in the
house with his wife Emma, until she aposta-
tized from the faith, or, rather, rebelled against
the Lord, and like the ancient Jews, when they
found that the Savior had arisen, they hired
the watchman to tell that His body was stolen,
and thousands are deceived by that story to-
day. So with Emma, Brother Joseph's wife;
she destroyed the original copy of the revela-
tion, and after Joseph's death taught her chil-
dren that he never received any such revelation,
and they believe it and try to induce others to,
and many do. But she did not thwart the
purposes of God in doing this, for Bishop N.
K. Whitney, one of Brother Joseph's particu-
lar friends, had preserved a copy of the reve-
lation, but it was not published until the Lord
directed. And because she rejected the word
of the Lord, it was no sign His work was go-
ing to stop.
	We hear very much said about Celestial
Marriage being such a trial. I do not doubt
but some are tried in this order, but is there
any principle, if it is practised aiming at per-
fection, but will try our selfish natures in some
way or other? I think not. The great trouble
is, except we have a testimony of the truth of
Celestial Marriage, we think every little trou-
ble unnecessary. Isaiah says, just after speak-
ing of the great calamities which will come
upon the daughters of Zion for pride, "That
seven women will take hold of one man, say-
ing, we will eat our own bread and wear our
own apparel, only let us be called by thy name,
to take away our reproach." I think it would
be better for the people to accept a principle
than to be forced to it in that way.
	We read in the Bible, Rev. 21st chap., that
John saw a beautiful city coming down from
heaven, and it had twelve gates, and an angel
at each gate; and each gate had a name writ-
ten upon it, and the names were the Twelve
Tribes of Israel; and we know that Jacob's
twelve sons, by four different wives, will be the
ones whose names will be written in such holy
places. I expect the next measures introduced
will be some leading man advising Congress to
adopt special legislation to deprive the twelve
sons of Jacob of a representation in heaven.
	MARY J. MORRISON.


WHAT WOMEN THINK.

	I have been thinking of the EXPONENT, and
wondering why more of our sisters (I should
say all of them) do not take it. Surely it is 
of some importance that the women of Utah
should be properly represented; we certainly
have misrepresentation enough. The cry has
ever been, the down-trodden women of Utah.
This same cry of oppression is made an excuse
for all kinds of newspaper abuse, and a pre-
text for interference in our public and domes-
tic institutions; indeed, they would have the
world believe us the most degraded and neg-
lected beings of all God's creation. Now, we
know this is not so; we enjoy full as much lib-
erty as they do, and a great deal more, with all
their boasted civilization. We do not need
their sympathy nor their interference in our
behalf. We enjoy all the rights that are ac-
corded to our sex anywhere, and know as well
how to use them as any of our compeers in the
Eastern cities would. Indeed, we enjoyed more
before they kindly introduced so much of their
vaunted civilization into our midst. The day
has been when we could walk the streets of


Salt Lake City at any hour of the day or
night, if necessary, without fear of insult, for
every man we met would be a brother and a
friend. But alas! this state of things did not
continue. Civilization came into our midst,
and the efforts of our Christian friends have
not only been successful in building churches
on many of our corners, but too many of the
opposite corners are occupied by the dealer in
intoxicating liquors, and the gambling hall is
there, with all the allurements of vice to lead
astray the unwary; and after the shades of
evening fall it is no longer safe for innocence
to walk the streets of our city nnprotected;
while the strange woman spoken of in Proverbs,
seventh chapter, lieth in wait to see if she can-
not catch some of the simple ones and lead the
youth of Zion astray. These are the scarlet-
robed women; but they belong not to us. They
are a necessary institution of the opposers of
this latter-day work. This is lamentable; and
shall the women of Utah keep silent when their
dearest and most sacred rights are being in-
vaded? No; rather let us raise our voices and
cry aloud at the injustice done us, till the na-
tion hears us and respects our rights. Let us
prove to the world that we are not the ignorant
slaves and bond-servants of men that the Hon-
orable Senator Morgan of Alabama would
represent us.
	Mothers and daughters in Israel, arouse
yourselves and show the world that our moral-
ity is at least of as high an order as that prac-
tised in the light of the civilization of the
Capitol of our country. And though our sen-
sibilities are as delicate, and our affections as
tender as the best and truest man can desire,
yet, when we go to the polls, we understand
full well our privileges, and vote for our friends
and those who will work for our best interests;
for men who honor the Constitution of our
country, and not for those who would defraud
us of our rights, who would sow dissension and
introduce debauchery and demoralization into
our midst. We want men to represent us who
understand the principles of purity and virtue,
and practice them in their own lives.
	These are the principles we will teach our
sons and our daughters; and when men come
among us seeking for office, who disseminate
falsehood and trample on our rights, they will
ever and always, I trust, find themselves con-
fronted by the Women of Utah.
	PHEBE C. YOUNG.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[COLUMN 1]
		HOAR’S SPEECH IN THE SENATE.
	HIS RESOLUTION FOR A'.SELECT COMMITTEE
ON woman’s RIGHTS.
Mr. President [italics]—I do not understand that the
question which the honorable Senator from
Missouri has discussed with so much eloquence
is before the Senate. No question of the ex-
tension of suffrage to any portion of our citi-
zens is raised by the resolution which is before
the Senate. The only question now is, first,
whether Senators like the honorable Senator
from Missouri will prefer to decide this ques-
tion before it is heard or after; and  next,
whether if one-half the population of this
country have an interest which their represen-
tatives desire to present to Congress, it will be 
more convenient to give them a hearing by one
of the standing committees of the Senate or by 
a separate committee appointed for that pur-
pose. I suppose the Judiciary Committee
would be entirely competent, and would be for
many reasons entirely appropriate, as the
proper organ of the Senate to hear the request
of these ladies; but the Judiciary Committee
is crowded with great subjects, and as one very
intelligent Senator observed to me yesterday,
“Send the matter to the Judiciary Committee,
for they never report on anything.” This com-
[COLUMN 2]
mittee is proposed, not alone to hear any repre-
sentation or arguments which may be proper
to be heard in regard to the question of Wo-
man Suffrage, but in regard to all subjects
where these ladies think their sex lies under
an improper legal disability. Mr. President, I
suppose that the wildest conservative in this
country will not deny that the old Common
Law, in defining the rights and duties of Eng-
lish and American women was not only unjust,
but almost brutal, No matter what might be
the degradation of the husband, the person,
the earnings, the personal property, the real
estate for life of the wife were absolutely in his
power. The discussion of this class of ques-
tions has convinced the American people, I be-
lieve, to an absolute unanimity of judgment,
that the law which permitted the husband to
beat his wife with a rod varying in size with
the thumb of the Lord Chief Justice or Chan-
cellor, which denied her the right to secure the
earnings of her own day’s work, which denied
her any voice or control in the education or
custody or direction of the children which she
had borne, was not only unjust, but almost
brutal. Within our national jurisdiction, with
Congress  organizing the institutions of the
great Territories, which are to become imperial
States, is it not fitting that that class of con-
siderations should be gravely, fully, adequately 
considered? If so, I do not see why the hon-
orable Senator from Missouri (who, I know,
entertains as high and chivalrous a regard for
the sex to which our mothers and sisters and
wives belong as any man on this floor) should
not unite with me in providing for giving a
respectful and thorough hearing, which it is
impossible that any of the standing committees
of this body can do, to the petitioners on this
class of subjects. Unless I am misinformed, it
is the rule of the Judiciary Committee, from
which they almost never depart, to give no
hearing at all, a course to which they are con-
strained by the necessities of the business com- 
mitted to them. Therefore, entirely independ-
ent of any question of the right or propriety
of extending suffrage to the women of this
country, it seems to me eminently proper and
fitting that this committee should be raised.
	I agree with the honorable Senator that if it
were the purpose of the advocates, of Woman
Suffrage to degrade any woman of this country
to the level of the masculine, ward politician,
who at present is governor of so many great
cities, and so many great States, it would be a
conclusive answer to this proposition. That is
not the purpose. It is not to degrade woman
to the present level of masculine politics; it is to
elevate masculine politics to the present level
of woman, to which the advocates of this re-
form are giving their efforts. I do not think
the honorable Senator from Missouri, or the
honorable Senators from any other State what-
ever, at present or in the past, have shown skill
enough in the matter of governing States to
enable them to claim any special superiority
for the masculine intellect in dealing with that
particular subject. I think myself that in de-
termining the policies which shall govern our
schools, the most important single question
which comes before legislative bodies; in de-
termining the policies which shall govern our
civil service, which is so largely filled by wo-
men to-day; in determining the questions which
concern the sale of intoxicating liquors, and
all the class of questions where the sphere and
the purity and the morality of American citi-
zenship are concerned, we may well, before we
come to a conclusion, count the vote and ascer-
tain the judgment and obey the wish of the
women of America. Proud as I am of the
history of this country, proud as I am of the
history of the English race to which I belong,
I do not think that it has shown any absolute
wisdom or inspiration in its capacity to provide
for the government of States, which enables it
[COLUMN 3]
to look with disdain on the proposition to avail
itself of feminine purity, of feminine instinct,
or of feminine wisdom, in dealing with the great
subjects with which States have to deal.


MIDWIVES.
A COMPETENT MIDWIFE IS WANTED TO LOCATE
permanently at Castle Dale in Emery County. Special
inducements offered. Correspondence solicited.
Address:	BISHOP JASPEH	PETERSEN,
Castle Dale, Emery Co, Utah.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD
DENTIST.
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE: - MAIN ST OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P. O. BOX, 341.

Z. C. M. I.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
obo i n the West.  Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

FOR SALE.
Home-Made SILK,
AT
CUTLER’S COMMISSION STORE.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,
Flannels,
Shawls,
Linseys,
Jeans,
Brown Yarns,
White Yarns,
Colored Yarns,
Cassimers,
Tweeds,
Cotton Batting,
Wool Batting,
Brooms, 
Washboards,
Brushes, Etc., Etc.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
MRS. C. E. DYE,
Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
——HAVE----
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126.
CALL AND EXAMINE
Spring and Summer Goods.

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.
Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
Address, David James, Box 396, Salt Lake City. 

AT TEASDEL'S 
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent’s Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children’s Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 10. 		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15, 1882. 		NO.18


OURSELVES.

How kind of Father, when he sends us here,
To give each traits of character that fins
The greatest satisfaction in the sphere
For which His wison hath this life designed! 

Led singly, or by sixes, or by twelves,
It matters not, we trudge or glide along;
And all the while, would rather be ourselves,
Than others in the mighty, rushing throng.

Sometimes we take missteps in starting out,
Or are misplaced by circumstances strange;
And some for half a liftime grope about,
Before they reach their being's natural range.

And others die, nor find the way at all,
Until they pass beyond the shores of time;
While others still, despairing, yield and fall,
Or stubborn grow, and turning cease to climb.

And some encourage feelings which conflict,
And seel no settled aim, or real intent;
And some are critics, who will contradict
The plainest truths, for sake of arguement.

But still, I think that more than half our race
Would grant that what I said at first is true;
That each would rather stand in his own place,
Than any other that he ever knew.

There was a lady very, very old,
Much has she suffered, much hard labor done;
She suffered still, and yet she often told,
She would not change her lot with any one.

She had not known the sweetest joys of life,
So we would think, who dote of wedded love;
But the meek cares of mother and of wife,
Her great experience she classed above.

And so I say by sixes or by twelves,
Or singly led, we envy not the rest;
But feel that we would rather be ourselves--
That Father knows, and plans, and chooses best.
								LULA.
S. L. City, Jan. 19, 1882.


SOME MORE FACTS.

	DEAR EDITOR:-- I have just been reading
an article in No, 16, Vol. 10, of the Exponent,
entitled "some Facts," by Emily Scott, and it
is so refreshing to hear from an honest heart
such as the lady manifests, that I cannot for-
bear writing a few of my sentiments, although
I do not propose to answer the lady in full.
Now, to be as honest as she has been, I woll
say to begin with, I am not in "polygamy,"
as the world term it, myself, but oew my exist-
ence to it, for I was born in the order of Celes-
tial Marriage. Do I feel ashamed of it? No;
let the whole world hear me say it, No! I
know that my mother is as pure a woman as 
lives, and my fater was an honorable virtuous
man, in fact, a true man of God, who would
have recoiled with horror from a sinful, licent-
tious act. Are they the only ones of this des-
cription who have entered that order? No;
they can be counted by thousands. I do not
claim, however, that there are no exceptions,
but the great majority who have accepted that
principle in their lives are pure in the sight of
God. It is now as it was in the days od Jesus;
in casting the Gospel Net into the sea of hu-
manity we gather of all kinds.
	Now, we will lay aside the fact that my hus-
band has no wife but myself and I would not
be considered a good judge, not having had
the actual experience; yet some of my most
intimate friends are living in that Sacred
order. Have I ever witnessed any quarreling
or unpleasantless in these families I speak of?
No, never; they live in perfect peace and love
one another with a sisterly love. Perhapes their
ideas conflict sometimes, and would this be
strange when we consider they may be, and
many times are, of different nationalities, and
have been reared with different ideas, tradi-
tions and prejudices? What families in mo-
nogamy do not sometimes disagree?  even those
who are counted perfect models; not only con-
sidered so, but really are. I have seen grown
brothers and sisters disagree, and even quarrel
perhaps not speaking pleasantly for some time;
but this was not thought much about. Had
the same thing occurred among wizes belong-
ing to the same husband, what a talk it would
have made; Polygamy being condemned as the
cause of such unpleasantness. Those not of 
our faith would have published it far and wise.
If sisters can forgive and forget little weak-
nesses that they see in each other, surely wives
in the same fmaily ought to do so, for in one 
sense of the word they are one. The same
ceremony that unites the first wife to her hus-
band also unites the second to him, or any
number he may take, each one being made one
with him.
I believe I speak the feelings of thousands
in saying the Mormon women are happy; in
fact, we are, I am sure, the happies people on
the face of the earth. We don not have to
suffer the moritication of having babies laid
on our doorsteps belonging to our husband and
some woman he has dishonored, his partner in
guilt; neither do we have occasion to suffer
any misgivings should our husbands remain
out at night a little longer than usual, for we
have perfect faith in their virtue. The record
made by the Latter-day Saint women proves
that they are not weak minded, but the very
opposite of this. The priesthood of God 
teaches them to obey their husbands in the
Lord, which means that men who are good and
pure have the right to govern their families in
righteousness, for "man is the head of the
woman," as the Holy Bible also teaches. But
if they should commit adultery, or debauch
themselves in any manner, then it remains with
the wife to say whether she will still be one
with him or not; for according to the law of
God she is free. He has, by his own conduct
severed the marriage tie.
For myself I can say, I do not know of any
young wives who worry about having children;
on the contrary, I know of some who would
give the world to have more, although they
already have a nice little family, which many
of our Gentile sisters would consider quite
large enough. Not so with us; we are taught 
that our children are our glory, and that they
are indeed an "heritage of the Lord." We
know the world hate and despise us, but our
Savior said, "Blessed are ye when men shall re-
vile you, and say all manner of evil against
you falsely for my sake," &c. in reading the 
different bills brought forward for remedying
evils in Utah, I am reminded of a song we
used to sing when I was a little girl, which ran 
as follows:
	"There's a great commotion in the East
	About the Mormon question;
	The problem is, to say the least,
	Too hard for their digestion."
which sentiment, I think, would be quite appro-
priate now.
I would like to add my testimony that this
problem of "Mormonism" will never be solved
by man, unaided by the Spirit of God, neither
will it be injured by any adverse legislation
that may be adopted for the purpose of break-
ing it to pieces. It is God's work, and they
who undertake its solution are measuring arms
with the Almighty, and they will find, sooner
or later, that there is a fearful odds agaainst
them. And this work will continue to roll,
until it fills the whole earth, and there will be
no other way found to purify society and ele-
vate women to a higher plane, except through
the much hated principle of Celestial Mar-
riage.
	Respectfully,
		Tiney.


TALK.

Isn’t it invigorating? Don’t you feel this
strong wind of opposition blowing in your
faces with refreshing zest? How the wind
does howl, to be sure! And around every sec-
tarian corner, what gusts and tempests sweep!
And isn’t it good to sit under the dome of
Truth and know that the door is bolted by the
arm of God, while this opposing clement sweeps
and surges without?
This moral showerbath clears off the atmos-
phere, so that I wash my dishes with fresh
spirit, and sweep up the floor with a dash.
The old meeting house bell rings out with a
vigorous call, “Come to church, come to church, 
the End is near, the End is near! Pray to
God, God will hear! !” 
And the papers, filled with Congress bills
and caucus meetings to crush out the work of
Christ, sends the blood to my heart with a
mighty force, the sparkle to my eyes and the
nerve to my arm, until I feel as President
Young did in ’57, when the memorable Peace
Commissioners’ meeting was broken up with
the news of the advancing army—Sisters, sing
Zion!
							HOMESPUN.


MME. Peeree has been admitted to practice
as a doctor by the medical faculty of Paris,
after a successful examination. She is married,
the mother of a family, but having been suc-
cessfully treated by an American woman M.
D., during a severe illness, was led to the study
herself. She is said to be the second French
woman who has sustained a doctoral thesis be-
fore the medical Faculty. - Ex.


IN MEMORIAM.

Little Junius, how we miss you,
  Since you left us here alone.
Oh, the house it seems so lonely,
  Now our darling June is gone.

Mother's pet and grandma's darling
  Always was our constant care;
But now he has gone to heaven;
  Do they call him Junius there?

His loving father kissed those lips,
  As in Death's embrace he lay,
And he, too, has now departed-
  Together they are laid away.

Wife and mother are so lonely
  Since they both are in the tomb;
They may call and they may beckon,
  But their loved ones cannot come.
					J. POWELL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

We had known little but sickness and want
in Commerce, and the thought of leaving there
and returning to our early home and kindred
was indeed a delightful one to us children, who
had laid out many a plan for future pleasures and
enjoyment with our little friends and cousins,
in roaming over Mendon and Victor soil; but,
alas! we were doomed to disappointment.
Sister Young, we heard, had received a
letter from Uncle Brigham, telling her to come
to Kirtland; and my brother William, who
had been down to see them, returned with the
news that they were packing up. Sister Orson
Pratt who was living with us, met Bro. Hyrum
Smith that day and spoke of Sister Young's
going East; he said he should advise her, by all
means, to stay where she was.
My mother had taken no decided step, nor
did she intend to until Joseph returned from
Washington; but when she heard Brother
Hyrum's mind upon the subject, she gave up
all thought of going back, and this all the
airy castles which we had built were thrown to
the ground.
Joseph had gone to Washington to lay the
case of the Missouri persecutions before Con-
gress, and was accompanied by Sidney Rigdon,
Judge Elias Higbee and O. P. Rockwell. The
feeling of injustice manifested towards him
and his people was no less then than it is to-
day, though at that time polygamy had not
been revealed; and when we hear people say
that that is all that is offensive in "Mormon-
ism," the only feeling we can express is pity
and contempt, for they are wilfully ignorant.
The Prophet Joseph's last interview with
President Van Buren and John C. Calhoun
are worthy of note, as the feeling then was
quite in keeping with the present generous and
magnanimous spirit manifested by the sectarian
world toward an innocent and inoffensive peo-
ple. The Prophet says:
"During my stay I had an interview with
Martin Van Buren, the President, who treated
me very insolently, and it was with the great-
est reluctance he listened to our message, which
when he had heard he said, 'Gentlemen, your
cause is just, but I can do nothing for you; and
if I take up for you, I shall lose the vote of
Missouri.'    *     *     *       I also had an
interview with Mr. John C. Calhoun, whose
conduct towards me very ill became his posi-
tion. I became satisfied there was little use for
met to tarry to press the just claims of the Saints
on the protection of the President.
When Joseph returned to his people it must
have been with a feeling of relief, knowing
that he had done his duty, and therefore cleared
his skirts. The God of heaven had overruled
it so, and His Prophet and Saints felt to say
Amen; for they knew as well then as they
know to-day that "No weapon that is formed
against His people shall prosper."
Soon after his return, Joseph wrote a letter
to General Bennet, from which we take the
following, showing there was no spirit of dis-
couragement. He says:
"It is our intention to commence the erection
of some public buildings next spring. We
have purchased twenty thousand acres of land
in Iowa Territory, opposite this place, which is
fast filling up with our people. I desire all
the Saints, as well as all lovers of the truth
and correct principles, to come to this place as
fast as possible, or their circumstances will per-
mit, and endeavor, by energy of action and
concentration of talent, to effect those objects
that are so dear to us. Therefore, my general
invitation is, let all what will come, and partake
of the poverty of Nauvoo freely."
My father's first letter from England, dated
April 6, 1840, was received on the last day of
May, bringing the welcome news that they had
landed in England, though they had had a
very rough voyage, it being March, which was
considered the worst month in the year upon
the ocean.
I copy the following extracts from my moth-
er's letter, for the benefit of those who were
connected with her during her earthly pil-
grimage. They will no doubt bring back many
a forgotten scene and incident to their recollec-
tion. She writes:
"We are thankful to hear that you and your
brethren's lives were preserved amidst the dan-
gers of the ocean; that you have safely landed
on Europe's shore, and are enjoying once more
the blessing of health.   *    *    The Lord is
able to preserve whom He will, and I trust He
will preserve you and bring you safe home; for
it seems an age since youleft us.  *     *   I
have had another attack of the ague this 
Spring; yesterday I was very sick, but feel
better to-day. Our babe has been quite sick
ever since I had the ague; he took it from me.
William has worn it our fairly; has got so he
can work and not bring it on.
"The brethren have fenced and ploughed
my land, and William has planted it. He has
been to school some, and I intend he shall go
more. Truman Barlow keeps school in this
neighborhood; Helen goes when I can spare
her. I teach Heber at home, for I know of
no way that I can pay their schooling. It is
very annoying to my feelings to be dependent on
the Church when the Saints are so poor.
"I have no reason to complain, for I do not
suffer for anything, and I often  wish I could
know that you were as comfortable. We hear
of the distress and trouble in England, and I
feel for the Saints there; but the Lord will
provide for those that put their trust in
Him.   *   *  Brothers Hyde and Page started over
two months ago for Jerusalem, and are preach-
ing their way through with great success.  *   *
"I have just heard that there has been a re-
quest sent by the people of Iowa to Joseph to
preach next Sunday. There are between two
and three hundred people coming down the
river to hear him. He has requested the
brethren to give them seats near the stand.
Joseph has preached several times of late, and
told many of the mysteries of  kingdom.
There are more or less baptisms every week.
The Saints are gathering here very fast, and
the place is being built up with great rapidity.
"I attended a party last Thursday at Bro.
Robert Thompson's; it was three years that
day since they were married. They celebrated
the day by preparing a feast for the wives of
all the Elders that had gone to England.
They were all present but Sisters Hadlock and
Woodruff. Brother Hyrum Smith and wife
and Brother William Law and wife took sup-
per with us, after which we had singing. Bro.
Thompson then offered up a very appropriate
prayer for us and our husbands. We then
parted. *	*	Sister Woodruff is here on a
visit; she has little Wilford, three months old,
with her. Sends her love, and wishes you to
inform her husband that she and children are
tolerably well. The brethren have a bee to-day
to put up houses for the families of the Twelve
that have none."   *   *
In another letter I find an interesting item
concerning the Prophet Joseph's receiving a
visit from on the of the Nephites, who told him
he had been through England, Ireland and
that the work of the Lord would be short and
powerful in those places. He also told him
many things about this land (America), many
of which have been fulfilled.
Mother, fearing her letter might be miscar-
ried, refrained from telling all that she had
heard Joseph relate, but said: "Suffice it to say,
trouble is to begin at the election (which is the
first day of the coming February), and great
and wonderful things are to be brought about."


EXTRACTS FROM MY LETTERS.

BY HANNAH T. KING.
 You ask me to give you my views of Woman!
I suppose you know it is a favorite subject with
me; I own it, and know it is a subject worthy
a mightier pen than mine, but not one more
appreciative. No, sir; I yield that palm to
none; Woman stands in the studio of my mind
as a work worthy of her Creator, and bearing
a striking affinity to him! worthy to be the
partner and co-mate of her brother, man, for
time and all eternity; worthy to be his friend,
his counselor, often in trying circumstances his
teacher, his upholder—truly all names in that
one the Bible gives her, his "helpmeet."  That
we often see her fail in these noble qualities,
has been no fault in the Creator; all that He
has placed in that mysterious, complex organ-
ization is still there, often hid up through a
long and barren life. Often she "dies and
inakes no sign” of the grand nobility that has
lain silent and unheeded, because progress is
not deemed necessary for her! why or where-
fore, the grand future has to reveal. Probably
there was a time, the mightiest epoch in human
life, when, in her self-sacrificing nature, she
consented to humiliate herself and her poster-
ity for a purpose grand and great as the uni-
verse is broad and long, and lasting as the
eternities!
	Was the rod put into the hand of man, or
did he usurp it? Has not much of what she
has endured arisen from her ignorance, from
her non-appreciation of herself?  Has she
grown into the apathy that now hangs about
her by a feeling that she had no part or lot in
solving the wonderful problem of human life?
There is no effect without a cause, but this also
is a problem yet to be solved.
 I do most assuredly believe that woman
evinces a higher type of the heavenly than
man; she is more spiritual, more refined; more
exclusive and original than man; and these at-
tributes give her a keener perception, a clearer
view of truth, of justice, an intuition, if you
please, which enables her at once to see and
understand, and instantly to comprehend.
Wilkie Collins calls this grand acme of char-
acter "impulse," simply because he knows no
better. I ever liked Brigham Young's judg-
ment of woman, and he seldom spoke with
velvet lips on such a matter. He said he would,
in general, take a woman's judgement before a
man's on common subjects, because they were
not hampered with the wire-workings of the
world; their minds were clear, like a sheet of
paper, etcetera; you will guess the rest.
If woman knew herself, she would often be
in school cultivating herself, consulting the
oracle, i. e., the spirit that whispers in every
human soul of its grand origin and its still
grander future. But she is awaking and work-
ing up to a point, and where she lacks strength
and wisdom God will help her, for she is his
daughter, and I know that fathers love their
daughters and are proud of them when they
are worthy of his love.
I am equally, and ever have been, a great
admirer of noble men. Some would say it
bordered on the romantic. N'importe! I give
it another name. I know that man is God's
Vicegerent on the earth, and woman is his co-
mate, to walk side by side, shoulder to shoul-
der, hand in hand through thejourney of life
on earth. Neither can appear before God
without the other, for Scriptures says, "The man
is not without the woman, nor the woman with-
out the man in the Lord." Do these words
mean nothing? Rather, is not salvation em-
bodied in them? You called my last letter
"stern;" let me tell you there is no softening of
the brain in Truth; it is a two-edged sword
that cuts both ways. I am in the school of
Truth, and my words bear that motto.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


FLOWERS.
The theme is old--yet what is new?
Millions have trod the path that you
And I to-day are struggling through.

Millions have lived through Spring's bright hours
Have gathered, too, its choicest flowers,
And dreamed beneath its fairy bowers.

Have toiled beneath the burning sun,
Have fallen ere the course was run,
Which with light hearts they had begun.

And sweet-toned voices borne the song
From age to age, fro throng to throng,
Which millions more will still prolong.

And yet the song is just as dear,
As bright the dream, as sad the tear
That meet us in our pathway here.

So I would sing of God's loved dower,
That cheers the heart with magic power,
The sweet, the lovely, smiling flower.

We might have lived without their light,
But would existence be as bright
Did they not beam upon the sight?

They smile amid the darkest doom,
They chase the shadows from the tomb,
And teach us hope amid its gloom.

In them the resurrection trace,
We see the dead to life give place,
In beauty and in matchless grace.

And to those flowers of the heart,
Kind words of love that ne'er depart,
And many a heavenly action start,

To you I sing; oh, never die,
But live as on the moments fly,
'Till in a song is lost the sigh.
						HOPE.


[Column 1]
	A SHORT CHAT WITH MRS. SCOTT.

	"If ye were of the world the world would love
its own; but because you are not of the world, but
I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the
world hateth you." --Gospel of St. John, xv, 16.

	The above passage of Scripture will explain
the mystery why all eyes are turning with hor-
ror toward Utah. Now, this horror and scared
feeling is all imaginary, and only seen at a dis-
tance, for the Latter-day saints are at peace
with each other and all the world. The "Mor-
mon creed" is to "Mind your own business,"
but because they are called out of the world,
therefor the world hate them and say all
manner of evil against them falsely, for the
Gospel's sake.
	You say you would like to know how the
Mormon women do feel. I will tell you, They
all know that they are honored wives and
mothers acknowledged in society, with their
children, and are happy in knowing their hus-
bands are true to their marriage covenant,
whether they have one wife or more. The
Lord, seeing the wickedness and corruption on
the earth in his wisdom has revealed the prin-
ciple of Plural Marriage, to purify society and
elevate woman from the degradation in which
man has placed her; and woe will be unto the
man that degrades woman, for she is a gift
from God. And I can positively assert that in
no place on the earth are chastity and virtue
in woman more honored and protected than
among the people called "Mormons."
Now we might be selfish and make a fuss
about our husbands taking other wives, if we
were of the world; but we are not of the
world neither have we the spirit of the world,
but rejoice in the spirit of the Gospel, which
has made known unto us that these things are
true. I am honest to confess that nothing but
a sense of my duty to God, and a desire to
keep His command, could ever have induced
me to consent to my husband's taking more
wives, I have made the sacrifice willingly,
and the Lord has blessed me abundantly with
joy and peace ,which man can neither give nor
take away.
I believe all you say with regard to the infi-
delity of husbands to their wives. There are
several cases of that kind in Salt Lake City; I
will mention one, my nearest neightbor, a Gen-
tile. He could strut around with his gold-
headed cane, drinking brandy, visiting houses
of prostitution, and moving in good society as
a gentleman, while his poor wife and children
were suffering for food and clothing, the "Mor-
mon" women administering to their wants.
Yet he would look wit horror on his neighbor
who had more wives, and who provided for and
was true to them. Shame on such inconsis-
tencies! Oh, women of the world, can you be
happy under such treatment? I assure you
that the "Mormon" women need no sympathy
from Christendom, for they are happier in the
spirit of their religion than the women of the
world know how to be. Understanding the
noble mission of woman on the earth is to bear
the souls of men, and to obey the first com-
mand given to our first parents, to multiply
and replenish the earth, therefore they appre-
ciate their children, knowing, as Solomon, the
wise man has said, that they are "an heritage
from the Lord." The great promise made to
Abraham was, that to his posterity there should
be no end.
Now, I will tell you some of our family se-
crets. The Lord has given to the Latter-day
Saints the sealing ordinance, whereby they are
married for time and eternity, husbands and
wives being united in the resurrection of the
just, to continue their family relations through-
out all eternity. How happifying the thought
that death will not separate us from our dear
one! Have the women of the world any such 
assurance, when they are only married till
death doth them part? I am sincere in saying
I would not exchange places with any woman
in the world, nor give my knowledge and ex-
perience in Mormonism for all the wealth of
Christiendom. While Congress is passing laws
against this people for imaginary evils, and
fosterwickedness and crime in their own midst,
the "Mormons" will keep on in the even tenure
of their ways, realizing they are fighting
against God and His laws, and this nation will
have to pay the bill; for the Lord will protect
His people. Our Savior has said, "Blessed are
ye when men shall revile you, and persecute
you, and say all manner of evil against you
falsely, for my sake; rejoice and  be exceeding
glad, for great is your reward in heaven.
M Isabella Horne.


LIFE IS WHAT WE MAKE IT.

To some this may appear to be a very singu-
lar, if not an extravagant statement.
 You look upon this life, and upon this world
and you derive from them, it may be, a very
different impression. You see the earth, per-
haps, only as a collection of blind, obdurate,
inexorable clements and powers; you look upon
the mountains, that stand fast forever; you look
upon the seas, that roll upon every shore their
ceaseless tides; you walk through the annual
round of the seasons; all things seem to be fixed
--Summer and Winter, seedtime and harvest;
growth and decay. And so they are.
But does not  mind spread its own hue
over all these scenes? Does not the cheerful
person make a cheerful world? Does not the
sorrowing person  make its own world? Does it
not appear as if indeed a portion of the divin-
ity were imparted to it, almost creating the
scene around it? Its powers, in fact, scarcely
fall short of the peculiar theory of those phi-
losophers, who have supposed that the world
had no existence but in their own minds.
So, again, with regard to human life. It
seems to many, probably, unconscious as they
are of the mental and moral powers which con-
trol it, as if it were made up of fixed condi-
tions and of immense and impassable distinc-
tions. But upon all conditions presses down
one impartial law--to all situations, to all for-
tunes, high or low, the mind gives their char-
acter; they are in effect not what they are in
themselves, but what they are to the feelings
of their possessors. The king upon his throne,
and amidst his court, may be a mean, degraded,
miserable man, a slave to ambition, to voluptu-
ousness, to fear, to every low passion. The
peasant in his cottage may be the real monarch
-- the moral master of his fate, the free and
lofty being; more than a prince in happiness,
more than a king in honor. And shall the
mere names which these men bear blind us to
actual position which they occupy amidst God's
creation? No; beneath that all powerful law
of theheart, the master is often the slave, and
the slave the master.
It is the same creation upon which the eyes
of the cheerful and  melancholy look, yet
how different are the aspects which it bears to
them. To the one it is all beauty and glad-
ness; the waves of the ocean roll in light, and
the mountains are covered with day. It seems
as if life went forth rejoicing upon every
bright wave and every shining bough shaken
in the breeze. It seems that there were more
than the eye sceth--a presence of deep joy
among the hills and valleys, and upon the
bright waters. But the gloomy one, stricken
and sad at heart, stands mournfully gazing at
the same scenes, and what is it to him? The
very light seems a leaden pall thrown over the
face of nature; all things wear a dull, dim and
sickly aspect. The great train of the seasons
are passing before them, but they sigh and
turn away, as though it was the train of a fu-
neral procession; and they wonder at the poetic
representations and sentimental rhapsodies that
are lavished upon a world so utterly misera-
ble.
Here, then, are two different worlds in which
these two classes of beings live; yet they arc
formed and made what they are out of the
very same material, oly by different states o
mind in the beholders. The eye maketh that
which it lcoks upon, the ear maketh its own
melodies or discords, and the world without re
flects the world within. Every disposition
and all behavior has a kind of magnetic attrac-
tion by which it draws to itself its like. Self
ishness will hardly be a centre round which
the benevolent affections cling. The cold
hearted may expect to be treated with coldness,
the proud with haughtiness; the passionat
with anger, and the violent with rudenes
Those who forget the rights of others, need not
be surprised if their own are forgotten; an
those who forget their dignity, and who stoo
to the lowest embraces of sense, must no wo
der if others are not concerned to find the
prostrate honor and lift it up to the remem-
brances and respect of the world. To the gen-
tle, how many will be gentle; to the kind, how
many will be kind; how many does a loving
example win to goodness, how many does
meekness subdue to a like manner, when they
come into its presence; how many does sanct[--]
purify, how many does it command to put away
all earthly defilements, when they step into
presence. Yes, the good will find goodness
the world, the person of honor will finf hon
and the person of principle will find a pri
ple af religious integrity in the hearts
others. There are no blessings which the m
may not convert into the bitterest cvils
there are no trials which it may not tranfe
into the most noble and diving of blessi
there are to temptations from which 
virtue they assail may not gain strength.
H. C. NORTON, M. I


W O M A N ' S  E X P O N E N T

		THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		EMMELINE B. WELLS  Editor

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
rates: each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			Publisher Woman’s Exponent,
				Salt Lake	City	Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY  FEBRUARY 15, 1882


IN MEMORIAM
	ELIZABETH ANN WHITNEY.
 She has gone to the realms of an infinite rest,
		We shall hear her sweet voice no more;
	She has joined the bright ranks of the happyand blest,
		With the Just who hare died before.
	And she’ll sing in the mansions of glory above,
		Of Jesus, His power to save;
	His wonderful mission of peace and of love,
		And His victory over the grave.

	Mother Whitney has gone to rest. Yea, she
has gone to that rest that remains to a Saint of
God. She has passed the ordeal that ushers the
(pure spirit into another and higher state of
being. The tenderly beloved, the angelic peace-
maker, the sweet songstress of Zion, has left us
 to join the innumerable, invisible company who
wait just the other side the vail to see God's pur-
poses fulfilled, that they may return again to
enjoy a full fruition of glory celestial.
	Elizabeth Ann Whitney, well known to the
Church for her faithfulness, integrity and good
works, departed this life to-day, Feb. 15, 1882, at
ten minutes past two p. m., at the residence of
her son-in-law, Isaac Groo, in this city, after an
illness of four weeks, during which period she
sometimes suffered extreme pain for days to-
gether. Always patient, sweet and gentle, sub-
missive to the will of God, often repeating the
words, “Father’s time is the best time.”
	Deceased was the widow of Presiding Bishop
Newel K. Whitney, who died Sept. 23, 1850.
Sister Whitney has been the mother of eleven..
children, six of whom are now living to mourn
the loss of an exemplary parent, whose life of
purity and excellence will be for generations to
come an example worthy of emulation through-
out all Israel. A heavenly influence ever seemed
to surround her like a halo, and saint or sinner
could not approach her without feeling in some
degree its power.
	Sister Whitney was one of the tried and
proven friends of the Prophet Joseph Smith,
and she loved to talk of him and the principles
he had taught and the associations connected
with his memory.
	In our next Issue we will give a sketch of her
life.


﻿HOSTILE MEASURES. 

	The bills now pending in the Congress of the
United Stales, asking for adverse legislation and
proposing hostile measures for Utah, are of such
a nature as to strike with amazement those who
know the purity of life and principle that charac-
terize the true Latter-day Saint. Not only so, but
every person possessing the true spirit of patriot-
ism must see how directly opposed these hostile
measures are to the Constitution of the United
States. Are there none in the halls of Congress,-
no men who dare, speak out in defense of the
oppressed, their fellow-creatures and fellow-


countrymen? Is it possible that men and women
are to be condemned to suffer as criminals with-
out trial, or the opportunity of defending them-
selves against assertions made and confirmed by
their enemies? Is not this a direct contradiction
of the laws laid down to govern this free Re-
public; where even criminals guilty of the high-
est offence must be judged before they can be
condemned? Are the women of Utah not to be
allowed to say a word in their own defense, while
those opposed to the principles they have es-
poused can be heard through every newspaper
in the land, and their cause proclaimed from
every pulpit?
	Would it not be well for the nation to pause,
ere any irrevocable step is taken, that would
strike at the peace and happiness and individual
liberty of the people of Utah, and examine well
and closely into the condition of the Territory?
Would it not be wiser to hear both sides of this
case, before decisive steps are taken to punish?
We have always understood every person in the 
Republic was entitled to a fair hearing, before
any verdict could be given.
	At the present time the Territory of Utah is
in a prosperous condition, full of peaceful, happy
homes. Shall these homes be made desolate,
these wives widows, by a fate more cruel than
death, innocent children be denied the father's
love and protecting care, and the tender ties of
family affection be dissolved and destroyed, to
gratify the demands of office seekers and reli-
gious perscutors? Let not the wails of women
and children be heard where now joy sits smil-
ing at the threshold, and the angel of peace at
the hearthstone. What balm has Congress to
offer for  broken hearts and desolated homes?
	This people so greatly misunderstood and
basely misrepresented, have already suffered
cruel wrongs and injustice in years that are past,
have been driven from State to State, despoiled
of their goods, robbed of their homes and inher-
itances, and thousands have died in consequence
of the hardships and sufferings inflicted upon
them because of their religious belief and insti-
tutions. Will not the past suffice? Is this spirit
of religious intolerance in accordance with the
sayings of the Savior, who declared that not a
sparrow could fall to the ground without His
Father's notice?
	This people at the present time are threatened
on every hand. Measures have been suggested
to take away from them every right and liberty
vouchsafed by the Constitution, and these mea-
sures enforced would scarce leave them the right
of conscience. But remember, great and mighty
law-makers and rulers of the nation, that "What
measure ye mete it shall be measured to you
again, pressed down and running over."
	It has been said, and we had firmly believed
that America was the home of the oppressed of
all nations, the land of religious liberty. How
is it to day? Oh, "how have the mighty fallen!"


EDITORIAL NOTES.
				     -----
	We respectfully ask our subscribers, to excuse
the delay of the Woman’s Exponent this issue,
as it was in consequence of the illness and death
of dear Mother Whitney.
	The Ladies’ Lecture Committee appointed at
the Young People’s Conference, Jan. 22, are
prepared to attend ta any calls made for lectures
in the different Associations.
	The Legislators are diligently busy at work,
notwithstanding Congress talks of putting this
Territory into the hands of five men, who will
probably undo all their proceedings.
	The address of the Secretary of the General
President of Relief Society is, Mrs. Sarah M.


Kimball, P. O. Box 785, Salt Lake City, Utah.
General President Y. L. M. I. A., Mrs. Elmina
S. Taylor, P. O. Box 625, Salt Lake City, Utah.

	On Monday, Feb. 6, a Primary Association
was organized in the Fifth Ward of this city,
with Mrs. Myra Winters, President. Sister
Eliza R. S. Smith officiated in the organization,
giving much good instruction, and afterwards
Sister M. I. Horne addressed the parents and
children upon the benefits resulting from these
institutions.


﻿ON Wednesday evening, Feb. 8, a Social Pic-
nic Party convened in the Lion House, this city,
under the auspices of the 18th Ward Relief So-
ciety, Ellen Barton, President, President John
Taylor and ladies, also Apostle Erastus Snow,
Presidents E. R. Snow Smith and M. I. Horne,
invited guests, were present. At about 7 o’clock
p. m., from one hundred and fifty to two hun-
dred people were seated around tables laden with
the bounties of the earth; after which the eve-
ning was spent in a truly social manner, in con-
versation, interspersed with instrumental solos,
songs, speeches and recitations. The spirit of
love and union prevailed, in which all partici-
pated, until 11 o’clock p. m., when the assem-
blage was dismissed with prayer by Elder John
Nicholson
	HANNAH M. WRIGHT, Sec'y pro tem.
		______________________


OBITUARIES.
				-----
	We regret to chronicle the death of our es-
teemed and beloved sister, Eliza A. Thomas,
who departed this life Jan. 14, 1882, after an ill-
ness of one week with scarlet fever.  Deceased
was born in Heber City, Utah, Nov. 9, 1863.
She was baptized when eight years old, re-
baptized October 2, 1881. Was a member of the
Sunday School and Y. L. M. I. A., and well
known for her sterling qualities, and the news
of her death cast a feeling of sadness over the
entire community.
	The funeral services were held in the 4th
Ward, Provo.  Karl G. Maeser and V. L.
Halliday were the speakers on the solemn occa-
sion; members of the Young Men’s Association
acted as pall bearers.  We sincerely condole
with the relatives and friends of our departed
sister.

		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whsreas, God in His providence has called
from our midst our much esteemed and respected
sister and co-laborer in the cause of improve-
ment; and,
	Whereas, Realizing the great loss sustained
by the Association and the promoters of the
cause of truth, and especially him to whom she
plighted her troth, her parents, relatives and
friends; therefore,
	Be it resolved, That we do sincerely condole
with them in this their great afflction and be-
reavement, and tender to them our heartfelt
sympathy.
	Resolved, That we unanimously adopt these
resolutions as a token of respect and high appre-
ciation of her sterling qualities.
	Resolved, That these resolutions be spread
upon the minutes of the Association, and that
a copy be forwarded to her parents, and that
they be published in the Woman’s Exponent.

					Amos D. Holdaway,
					George Elliot.
	Committee,		Herbert S. Pyne,
					Emma Twelves,
					Hannah Arrowsmith,
					Maggie Watsson,


﻿Died, in Provo City, Jan. 27, 1882, Susan Adah
Howe, daughter of James J. and Martha Price
Howe.  She was born in Surrey Co., North
Carolina, Sept. 6, 1886. Deceased was a resident
of Timpanogus, but was attending school in
Provo, at the B. Y. Academy. She was a young
lady highly respected and esteemed by all who
knew her; a loving and faithful friend, a kind
sister and a dutiful child.
					EMMA BROWN.

	Died at Mt. Pleasant, Sanpete Co., Feb. 4,
1882, Sister Sarah K. Wells. Deceased was born
in Denmark, Nov. 3, 1793, and emigrated to this
country in 1863. Sister Sarah has been a good
and faithful woman, and true to every principle
of the Gospel. She was a member of our Relief
Society, and took great pleasure in doing good
wherever an opportunity presented itself.  But
she has gone to rest in her eighty-ninth year,
like a shock of corn fully ripe, to await a glorious
resurrection.				M. F. C. Morrison
				-----
	Died, in Monroe, Sevier Co. on the 9th day of
Jan., 1832, Sister Geneva Collings, beloved wife
of Wm. Collings, and daughter of Geo. W. and
Mary Bean.
	Sister Genova was in the bloom of woman-
hood, aged 22 years. Was married at the last
April Conference.  She died in childbed, leaving
a little daughter five days old. She died, as she
had lived, a noble woman and a faithful Saint.
Her kindness of manner, generosity of heart
and integrity to her religion won all hearts.
She had only to be known to be loved. She
leaves a host of friends, who sincerely mourn
her loss and condole with her bereaved husband
and parents.			CELIA E. BEAN.
	Richfield, Jan. 29, 1882.


___________________________________________________________________________

							WOMAN'S EXPONENT.						

___________________________________________________________________________


INSTRUCTIONS
TO THE, SECRETARIES OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY;
	IN REPLY TO FREQUENT INQUIRIES.
	It is very desirable that a uniformity should
exist throughout all the branches of the Relief
Society in regard to the Secretaries’ Books.
	In some business departments of the Relief
Society, we are under the necessity of varying,
in order to meet the varied local circumstances
of the different branches; but this does not, in
any instance, apply to the Secretaries.
	In each department we want to learn to do
business in the best possible manner, and to
adopt the manner in which it can be done with
the greatest facility and the least labor.
	The Secretaries of the various Branches of the
Belief Society are, or should be, historians of
their respective Branches. One Book (or when
one Book is full another succeeds it) should con-
tain the whole history—all records of the Branch;
and those records should comprise everything
worthy of preservation, and in as concise a man-
ner as practicable. In this, skill and Judgment
are requisite, and “practice makes perfect.”
	In the first place - at the meeting the Secre-
tary should take minutes of all business transac-
tions and whatever is said or done that should
be read at the next meeting; all that has been
donated to the society since the date of the last
meeting, with the name in full of each doner;
the amount of each cash donation, and the price
of each article donated. These figures properly
placed in the margin, are readily footed in mak-
ing up reports: and all proceedings are readily
referred to under their respective dates.
	Should the Branch have an organized Board
of Teachers (which is unnecessary in small
Branches), and that Board a Secretary, a copy
of the minutes of each teachers' meeting must


be forwarded to the general Secretary in time
for her to compile under date whatever is worthy
of record, in its proper order in Book.
	In making up Quarterly or Annual Reports,
the Treasurer will furnish the Secretary with a
list of all Disbursements from date of last report,
which, after having been read and accepted by
the Branch, also read at the Conference for
which it was prepared, the Secretary will copy
it under date, and thus have in one Book the
minutes of each meeting, all the receipts and
disbursements, comprising all business matters
of the Branch.
	The foregoing is in accordance with the origi-
nal sample Book, which was fully approved by
the Prophet Joseph Smith, through whom the
revelation was given for the organization of the
Relief Society.
					E. R. SNOW SMITH.
	S. L. City,  January, 1882.


[Column 1]
		THE PRAYER OF FAITH.
	We regret to learn that Brother Tibbet's
earthly career has ended; but while we sympa-
thize with his sorrowing family, a ray of joy bursts
forth, in remembrance that he died in full faith
in the Gospel. And not only so, but having a
knowledge that his partner, Sister Tibbets, has
a strong testimony of its truth. This I learned
from herself. She told me that while in Eng-
land a tumor, or cancer, began to make its ap-
pearance, and was so painful that she had no
rest. She went to consult a physician, who told
her he would undertake the cure, but it was a
painful operation, and he could not promise the
result. This alarmed her, and she resolved to
call upon the Elders to administer to her. They
came, and at teh same time the doctor came
also; she introduced him to the Elders, and told
him why they had come. "Well," said he, "if
they cure you I can send them several others,
for they are very difficult to cure."The physi-
cian left, and the Elders administered according
to the pattern our Savior has given, using oil in
the name of Jesus. The result was a perfect
cure. She told me herself that she never felt a
pain or a twinge from that day to this.
	This reminds me of the first time I saw the
oil administered in the name of the Lord. It
was at the house of Sister Catharine Clawson,
in Utica, New York. She is the mother of Bro.
H. B. Clawson, who was living in the city of
Utica at the time. We had been baptized one
week previously under the hands of Elder James
Blakesley, who brought the Gospel to Utica in
the year 1842. Sister Clawson, with three of
her sisters and two nieces besides myself, were
baptized Sept. 15, 1842. The next Sabbath, just
after morning service, Sister Ruth Reese (after-
wards wife of Heber C. Kimball) remarked that
she was going to see Catharine, because her
child was sick, which would prevent her from
attending meeting that morning. I asked to go
with her, another asked the same privilege, when
Elder Blakesley inquired, "May I go?" "Cer-
tainly," was the reply. After arriving and be-
ing seated, Elder B. says: "If your clock was
out of repair, who do you think would be the
best repairer?" We looked at each other, and
wondered why he asked this question. He no-
ticed our embarassment, and said: "Would not
the maker of the clock be the best repairer?"
"Certainly," was the reply. "Then the Maker
of this little frame is the best repairer." The
mother then said, "Will you administer to the
child?" He replied, "Let us pray." We all
knelt, when he offered up a prayer; then arising
he laid his hands upon the head of the child,
and prayed God to restore it to health. She did
not open her eyes, or notice anything, until he

[Column 2]
had finished his prayer, when she immediately
looked up at him, then reached her hands to her
mother, who took her up. She asked for a
drink of water, after which she called for some-
thing to eat, and then got down to play, looking
so cheerful and happy. This was Bro. H. B.
Clawson's youngest sister, Harriet, now living.
	Sister Ruth Kimball will remember this cir-
cumstance as well as myself.  I must say that I
was delighted with the thought that the Lord
could hear and answer prayer as anciently.  I
well remember my impression, which I gave
utterance to; it was this: To be healed like that
when I was sick would be the greatest testimony
I could ask; to know that I was accepted of the
Lord, and had been so greatly blessed by Him.
	It was two years from that time when I was
taken violently sick of a fever. My parents
lived on a farm five miles from Nauvoo at this
time. I had been sick four days and nights,
and my mother was doing her best to break the
fever. Finally some one asked if I had been ad-
ministered to. No, I had not thought of this,
but said I would. The next impression was,
you will not be healed; you are not as innocent
as that little child, and you have not lived faith-
ful. No, I know it, thought I, but I will be
blessed, for a blessing attends every effort we
make in keeping the commands of our Father.
Accordingly, two Elders came from the harvest
field; one was Emer Harris, a brother of Martin
Harris, the other my step-father, Bro. Dunlap.
But I found I could not sit up; mother sat and
held me up in bed. They laid their hands upon
my head. I wept, for I felt unworthy of the bless-
ing I sought. But in the midst of the prayer
my sorrow was turned to joy. I was healed. I
felt strong, I could sit alone and fan myself,
could eat with a good relish, and slept sweetly
all night, without awaking once. I was so
happy; I thought it the brightest day I had ever
seen in my life.
	Such is the effect of the prayer of faith since
the Gospel has been restored to the earth. And
such are the results when we come to our Heav-
enly Father in a humble, childlike manner, ask-
ing as a hungry child would do for a piece of
bread to satisfy the demands of nature. Yet
we are told there are many gifts given to each
one severally, as He will. And why? Because
we are all members of one body, and each one
must fill his or her sphere of action, and be per-
fect, even as our Father in Heaven is perfect.
How is that to be done? I understand it is to
fill our sphere as perfectly as God our Father
fills his, which is the earnest prayer of
					M. E. KIMBALL.


BIRTHDAY PARTY

  In Ogden City, Feb. 7, 1882, it being the
sixty-eighth anniversary of Mrs.  Charlotte
Etherington's birthday, her children and some
friends met at her residence in the 2d Ward,
taking plenty of the good things of the earth
with them, and making her some presents,
which were duly appreciated.  After the boun-
teous repast was over, speeches were made ap-
propriate to the occasion.
   When Mrs. Etherington arrived in this val-
ley twenty-five years ago she had five children;
since that time she has become grandmother to
forty-three grandchildren and two great-grand-
children,  twenty-two boys and twenty-three
girls; the total number of children, grandchil-
dren, etc., is something near sixty souls. The
evening was a very enjoyable one, and long to
be remembered. Among other entertainments
a poem was read, which had been composed
for the occasion by Mrs. Mary Ann Pingree,
expressing the love and good feelings of the
sisters and friends.					P,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
			REPORTS

		SANPETE STAKE

  The Quarterly Conference of R. S. of San-
pete Stake was held at Spring City, Dec. 15,
1881, Prest. M. A. P. Hyde presiding. Prest.
Peterson and one of his Counselors, Henry Beal,
also other brethren from adjacent settlements,
were present. After devotional services the
reports were read, showing that a creditable
amount had been appropriated for the erecting 
of a woolen factory, also for the Manti Temple
and other purposes. A change was made in
Stake President of Primary Association, Sister
Helena Madsen taking the place of Sister
Phebe Maiben, who resigned. A committee
was set apart to take charge of means already
received and to be raised for the establishment
of the factory. The presidents of different 
wards reported the members of their respec-
tive societies as being alive to all known duties 
as members of the Church and Kingdom of 
God.  Prest. Hyde addressed  the  assembly 
upon the storing of grain and the advancement
of the factory; also urged them to be diligent
in keeping their covenants unbroken.
   President Petersen heartily endorsed all the
proceedings, encouraged the sisters in their
financial and charitable enterprises.  A num-
ber of brethren and sisters made brief remarks,
encouraging and stimulating the sisters to more
faithfully honor their high and holy callings.
Choir sang, Doxology.  Benediction.  Confer-
ence adjourned, to be held at Ephraim, March
15, 1882.
			FANNY KOFFORD, Cor. Sec'y.

			JUAB STAKE
   The Juab Stake organization of R. S. held
their Fifteenth Quarterly Conference Jan. 20,
at the Nephi Meeting House, commencing at 2
P. M., pursuant to adjournment, Mrs. Amelia
H. Goldsbrough presiding. Most of the Stake
and local officers were present, though some
were detained on account of sickness.
   After the usual opening exercises, the min-
utes of the last quarterly conference were read
and approved. Then followed verbal reports
by the presidents of the different branches,
which proved that the sisters were energetic in
the discharge of their duties, and were alive
to the interest of the great Latter-day work.
   Financial reports were read, which showed
the condition of the branches to be very good,
there being no lack of means to supply the
wants of the needy.
   We then had some excellent remarks from
Presidents A. H. Goldsbrough, M. Pitchforth,
S. Aagard, H. Grover, and Counselors J. Pic-
ton, M. Bryan and Sister Hendrickson. All
spoke spiritedly, and touched on many subjects
of interest. Some of them on the training of
children, the responsibility of parents and the
hurtful results arising from neglect of these
duties. Thought if we would be faithful we
had no cause to fear from our enemies. A
very few remarks from Brothers Brown and
Kendall. 
   It was then moved and carried that a report
of the Conference be forwarded to the EXPO-
NENT.  Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, "Hark the song of jubilee." Bene-
diction by Bishop Aagard.
				A. L. BIGLER, Cor. Sec'y
			PINE VALLEY.
   The sisters of Pine Valley Relief Society,
with three of the brethren R. L. Lloyd, John
Grey and James Bracken, (our Bishop being
absent from home, met Jan. 15, 1882, at 11
o'clock a. m., at the residence of Mrs. Dorinda
M. Slade, President of the Relief Society, to 
celebrate and surprise her on her seventy-fourth
birthday, Brother Bracken being sixty-six the
day previous, the 14th. Tables were set, and
seventeen sisters and the above named brethren,
twenty in all, sat down to a sumptuous repast,
all in excellent spirits. Brother Bracken re-
turned thanks. It was snowing very heavily.
Dinner over, the time was spent in conversing,
and the song, "Hard times come again no
more," was rendered.
   Meeting commenced at two p. m. Singing,
"Come, come, ye Saints."  Prayer by D. M.
Slade. Singing, "Up, awake, ye defenders of 
Zion." President Slade then gave the meeting
into the hands of the company assembled.
Sister Sophia M. Burgess then read a letter
composed by Ellen M. Jones, and inscribed to
Sister Slade, in behalf of the sisters of Pine
Valley Relief Society.
DORINDA M. SLADE, PREST. R. S.
   Dear Sister--We the sisters of Pine Valley
R. S., have met to-day, Jan. 15, to celebrate
the birthday of our beloved and much re-
spected President, Dorinda M. Slade, it being
her 74th birthday. And we feel to ask God,
our Heavenly Father, to bless, comfort and
cheer her lone way, that He may prolong her
days upon the earth, that she may  still be use-
ful in her day and generation, that she may
teach and instruct the sisters and the youth in
those things they may have a desire to learn;
and that He will bless us while we enjoy our-
selves this day.  We will pray God, our Heav-
enly Father, to remember, in an especial man-
ner, "thine Israel" under all circumstances,
throughout the length and breadth of the
whole earth. Bless thy servant John Taylor,
his Counselors and the Quorum of the Twelve,
with wisdom, light and intelligence, that they
may preside and lead "thy people" in the ways
of truth and righteousness.  Remember our
Delegate to Congress, and all that pertaineth
unto him; shield and protect him from the
power of his enemies; let thine influence and
power be round about him, as a wall of fire,
that they may have no power or dominion over
him; may he ride triumphant over them. Re-
member the honest in heart, this day in all the
earth, and all who have a desire to do thy will
and keep thy commandments. We, the sisters
of Pine valley, have a desire to live according
to thy mind and will and to join heart and
hand with Sister Slade in assisting to promote
the interest, happiness and welfare of the poor
and needy of our ward, to comfort and cheer
the tempted and tried, the broken-hearted, and
all that need assistance. We will ever be on
hand as a band of sisters to magnify our call-
ing and perpetuate the R. S. and the work of 
God to the ends of the earth. And may God
bless our President her Counselors and the 
members, and may Sister Slade live to be an
honored instrument in the hands of God in
doing good all the day long, is the wish and
fervent prayer of her sister in the Gospel,
					ELLEN M. JONES.

   Brother Bracken said he well remembered
"the wrongs of Missouri" and "the fate of Nau-
voo," and spoke by the spirit of inspiration; he
was followed by Brothers R. L. Lloyd and
John Grey. Singing, "How have the nations
grown corrupt." Then the following sisters
bore testimony to the truth of this work: Sis-
ters Jones, Ann Snow, Amanda Burgess and
Sister Jacobson. Singing, "O Saints have you
seen." Sisters Sophia Burgess, Jane Gardner
and Cynthia Gardner each spoke a short time.
   We had without exception one of the most
enjoyable times we have ever had the pleasure
of witnessing. The Spirit of God was richly
enjoyed by all present. Singing, "O ye moun-
tains High." Benediction by R. L. Lloyd.
					ELLEN M. JONES.

			BEAR LAKE
   Synopsis of Conference of Relief Societies
of the Bear Lake Stake of Zion, held Sunday,
Jan. 15, 1882.  Present of the stand--Wm.
Budge and James H. Hart, of the Presidency
of teh Stake; Presidents Julia Lindsay and
Elizabeth Collins, of the Stake Relief Socie-
ties; President Nancy Pugmire, of the Stake
Y. L. M. I. A.; President A. Laker, of the
Stake Primary Associations;  Bishop J. A. 
Hunt; Presidents of the branch Relief Socie-
ties, Y. L. M. I. Associations and Primary As-
sociations, and others. Singing, "High on the
Mountain Tops," etc. Prayer by Prest. Wm.
Budge. Singing, "With Joy We Own Thy Ser-
vants, Lord."
   President Lindsay felt thankful for the good
circumstances that attended the opening of the
conference, and called the presidents of the
branch Relief Societies to the stand.  The fol-
lowing societies were then reported: St. Charles,
Mary Jacobs; Bloomington, Catherine Nelson;
Paris, First Ward, M. Innes; Ovid, M. Carrol-
son; Fish Haven, F. Howell; Garden City, A.
E. Cook; Laketown, M. E. Findlay. A writ-
ten report from Liberty was read. Paris, 2d
Ward,  Woodruff, Randolph,  Bennington,
Georgetown and Saleratus Creek Societies were 
not represented.
   President Lindsay explained why the Statis-
tical and Financial Reports were not read this
morning. Spoke on the principle of order,
and requested the sisters to forward all contri-
butions to the Temple to her, with the names
of the donators, so that she might forward the
same to the President of the Stake. We have
to be energetic and persevering in order to ac-
complish what the Lord requires at our hands.
   The Financial and Statistical Reports of the 
different branch societies were then read.
   Singing, "Before Jehovah's Awful Throne."
Conference adjourned until 2 p. m.  Benedic-
tion by President Hart. 
   2 p. m.  Singing, "O Awake my Slumbering
Minstrel." Prayer by Bishop Hunt. Singing,
"Except the lord Conduct the Plan." The
sacrament was then administered, during which
the choir sang, "Ye Children of our God" and
"O God, the Eternal Father".
  The following reports were then read:
   Statistical Report for the half year ending
Dec. 31, 1881: Teachers, 123; members, 458;
total officers and members, 629; meetings held,
77; average attendance, 180; Church papers,
161; WOMAN'S EXPONENT, 35.
   Financial Report: On hand at last report,
cash, $37 35; property, $161 81, wheat, 387bu., 17 lbs. Receipts: Cash, $248 53; property,
$19 10; wheat, 34 bus., 10 lbs. On hand:
Cash, $88 55; property, $758 25; wheat, 707
bus., 37 lbs.
   President P. Hoganson, of Montpelier, and
President Sparks, of Dingle Dell, made brief
remarks.
   President Lindsay said there are a great
many duties devolving upon the sisters of the
Relief Societies.  Related her early experience
in connection with the Relief Societies in Kays
Ward. While in one of those meetings the
spirit of prophecy rested upon her, but through
timidity she neglected this spirit, and it left 
her. She instantly became darkened in mind, 
while another sister in the meeting arose and
gave the same prophecy that the Spirit of God
dictated to the speaker. She then made a
covenant that she would never again neglect
the whisperings of the Spirit of God. No
person can conscientiously sit down in Zion
contented and say there is nothing to do.
There is an abundance of work to accomplish,
and our time should be spent in helping to do
it. Spoke of the negligent condition of some
of the sisters in not attending their Relief So-
ciety. Every one that neglects the meetings,
loses a certain portion of the Spirit of God.
The Lord has placed a great duty, as mothers,


upon-us-in-training up.our.children.in the fear
and admonition of the Lord, and if we neglect
this duty,“the Lord will surely-hold-us account-
able.,.. Urged upon the, mothers to teach their
children-, the: importance of seeking unto the
Lord for a testimony .concerning'the truth of 
this work and :the.-prophetic mission of Joseph
Smith. We must he charitable with each
other, and bear with one another’s weaknesses.
Gaveimuch valuable.instruction in relation to,
the principle .of polygamy, and advised all
never. to fight against this, sacred ordinance.
Sisters,xnever influence your daughters against
this. Ifi we-live--our religion properly, there
will.never’be trouble in our ‘ families.
AVeshould never interfere with one another’s
family relations, because it invariably brings
strife -and -discord; Rather be peacemakers,-
for “blessed are the peacemakers for they shall
see God.” Cultivate our minds, and we will
find it to our advantage, both in this world and
in that to come; Imparted much valuable in-
struction-to the. teachers of Relief Societies,
and’acquainted them jvith their duties. Slidwed
how the sisters might gain the blessings of God,
and closed by invoking the blessings of God
upon all present. '
President Collins felt thankful to God that
He had given her strength to.be in the midst of
the, people. If we do not do our duties to
God and men, we cannot expect to gain those
blessings that they enjoy who live with an eye
single before God.
	President Wm. Budge said he had listened
to the,reports that, had' been read- with great
interest,- as. also--the instruction’s of the sisters.
Felt_grateful' to the Lord' that there were sis-
ters among us’who labored so incessantly for
the good of their -fellows; knew their labors
would meet with good results. Trusted they
would,continue. in well doing. In traveling
 around 'the Stake he was -glad to see the pro-
gress of the people. There are few among us
who will not lend the helping , hand when it is
needed; allseeming to meet the obligations
the-Lord is bringing upon us from time to
time..AVe must depend upon the Lord in the
fulfilment of our duties, and not-upon the “arm
of'flcsh"`for God has forbidden ‘this;-and in
 doing so we. have n.Q claim upon, his,blessings;'
AVe cannot; reasonably expect to enter heaven
without self-denial. How could we turn from
 evil ways and live near to God, without Some
self-denial,-or sacrifice. Our interests are so
combined,-that we cannot do good to others,
without.benefitting ourselves. Duties have
been Imposed upon us which’we’ sometimes feel
to shrink :frOm; but through our covenants to
God,,we realize it is right to discharge every
reSppHsibility placed upon us by our Heavenly
F&ther; "Hoped the mothers .Would calL their
children arqund them at. night1 and-instruct
them' ih the things. of God,’ teaching them a‘s
the Holy Spirit directs. The brethren also
with their.boys- Dwelt, upon. the duties, of
parentsand trusted all would realize their po-
sition before God, Concluded by exhorting
 allifto faithfulness, and invoking the blessings
ofAlmighty’God,
I President Lindsay announced that owing to
SisterEmeline-Rich; Treasurer to thH. Stake,
moving to Provo, it would be -necessary to ap-
point another., in her place; Sister Margaret
Stucki'was nominated-by the unanimbus vote
of the'Oonferencfe- to that position; who was.
then set apart by Prest. AVm. Budge.
 Confere'nce -adjourned 'sine, die.’ Singing,
“The Earth is the Lord’sBenediction -by'
President1'Hart. '	 	v-:
-AElizabeth Pdomire, Secretary.
	J Budge,	Assistant	Secretary


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


THE Boston Woman's Journal has published
two poems from "Wild Flowers of Deseret,"
with comments.


WOMAN'S SUFFRAGE CONVENETION.

		STATE OF NEW YORK.

			[Column 1]
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	I had the great pleasure, in company with
Sisters Zina D. H. Young and Dr. Ellen B.
Ferguson, of attending the Woman's Suffrage
Convention for the State of New York, held
Feb. 2 and 3, in Chickering Hall, corner of
18th St. and Fifth Avenue. It is a magnifi-
cent Hall, worthy of the cause promulgated
within its walls, and the paying of one hundred
dollars a day for its occupation for two days,
shows the high estimation of the work in hand
and also the praiseworthy executive ability of
the gracefull queen of wit and fable, Mrs. Lillie
Devereux Blake, the present President of the
New York Association.
	I did not attend the reception given in the
Stuyvesant Hotel, which I am informed was a
brilliant affair.
	The morning of the second day (I did not
attend the first) was occupied principally in
hearing reports from the different counties,
mostly represented by Mrs. Blake herself.
	The afternoon was occupied by Mr. Wilcox,
Mrs. Slocum, Mrs. Joslyn Gage and a witty
German lady from Albany, and representative
of that branch of the work. Her speech was
full of good, common-sense hits, and reminded
me much of our dear, sweet Camilla Cobb at
home. Mr. Wilcox is truly woman's champion,
and the woman must be truly proud and happy
(the sole interpretation of the word Marriage)
who calls him husband; and  the cause will, in
the hour of its success, owe much to his untir-
ing efforts. May he live to realize his well-
grounded, sanguine hopes, and wear the laurels
which will be undisputably his due.
	Mrs. Slocum's interesting speech was imbued
throughout with the earnest pathos and elo-
quence born of full conviction of the truthful-
ness and deep-rooted blessings to humanity,
that would spring from the accomplishment
of the enfrachnisement of women. Her placid
and peaceful face shone with her good will to
all women; and her beautiful, silvery hair was
tenderly suggestive of the long time she had
labored for the good of her sisters. We have
reason to love those veterans, one and all. She
touched as did every woman speaker, upon the
soul-thrilling mother question of right to the
possession of children. Shades of Nero! If
there is one thing in which a woman (a good
one of course) feels secure in, and of which
she thinks no one has a shadow of a right to
dispute her supremacy, it is her possession of
the children of her bosom. Our sacred Guide
Book tells us we are rewarded according to our
works, and what other reward could even be
suggested to a mother's heart than that of pos-
session of her children? If only the one ar-
gument of capacity was considered, magnanim-
ity could render but one verdict, Give them to
her. Were all men model husbands (and the
sad truth is that scarcely the majority are)
these vexed questions would never have arisen.
Not that I wish to be understood that women
are never in fault, I am far from being so ultra
as that, but we know that evils are and were
meant to be that we may be able to appreciate
heaven by comparison; and the sole struggle is
how to so adjust rights and privileges that
every one may enjoy some approach at least to
justice.
	Mrs. Josyln Gage, with her snowy crown of
womean's glory, must be heard to be appre-
ciated. Her wealth of scholarly lore is a bea-
con light to all women of her age, and to those
coming after her, encouraging them to press
onward in cultivating the germs of intelligence
given of God liberally to daughters as well as
sons. If I did not misunderstand her (and I
hope I did), she over-reached herself just once,

			[Column 2]
by making the assertion that if all things were
fair play, woman was man's superior. I regard
this as one step beyond the one desirable end
 of equality. For woman to assert herself as
the superior would be reversing the strict or-
ganization of God Himself upon the earth, as
taught us in Holy Writ, and also evidenced by
facts as they stand in Nature, unalterable either
by the feeble voice of man or woman. Man,
by his superior physique and mental force, was
from the beginning placed at the head, not-
withstanding the man with the largest brain
on record (70 ounces) was an inmate of an in-
sane asylum. This only proves that too much
of a good thing is good for nothing, and that
too much brain, like too much knowledge, may
make a man mad, and perhaps if every woman
had as much brain as the best man, they might
all go mad; at least, I fear some men would
with jealousy; for as a general thing they are
exeedingly "tender" of their supremacy. The
law of equal right now demanded by women
cannot cause any mental pertubation or disturb-
ance in the noble and true man, for he is in-
variably liberal and even solicits that women
be given every opportunity of improving and
making use of every talent her Father has
giver her, and in the almost unconscious en-
joyment of superiority, he is not forever green
with jealousy, as the man is who is writhing
under the humiliating consciousness of his own
inferiority. It is no part of the ambition of
any true  born, to lauch ahead, to launch ahead, and,
looking back over her shoulder, say, "Come on,
husband, and step lively, lest I lose you." So
that equal rights are only as a compensating
checkmate for bad men, and are in no wise to
infringe upon the good.
	After the afternoon session I had the pleasure
of an introduction to Miss Anothony, and a
second one to the noble Mrs. Gage, having
been presented to her previously at the recep-
tion held in the Woman's Pavilion during the
Centennial Exposition, Phila. I regard them
both as women of pleasing and impressive
presence.
			To be continued.


SURPRISE PARTY.
	On Tuesday, the 7th inst, the good sisters of 
the Plain City Relief Society, accompanied by 
the Brass Band, repaired to the residence of
Sister Elmira Raymond, and gave her a  com-
plete surprise.  Sister Raymond has faithfully
performed the duties of President of the R. S.
since its frist organization in this place. After
partaking of picnic, which the sisters took
along, they spent an agreeable time, the band
furnishing its quoto with excellent music.  Be-
fore partaking of picnic, Sister Raymond was
presented with a beautiful album and a pair of
vases;	after which same very pretty verses
were read by Sister Polly Ann Richardson.
	Our Relief Society is in good condition; the
wants of the poor are well supplied.
			SUSANNAH ROBINSON.


NOTES AND NEWS
                               -----
The Woman's Silk Culture Association has
held its first exhibition in Philadelphia.

 MRS. Ednah D. Cheney has written a chap-
ter on "The Women of Boston," in Mr. Win-
sor's Memorial History of Boston.

	Mrs. Mary E. Haggart, of Indianapolis, on 
Tuesday, the 25th of January, addressed the 
Kentucky Legislature on the rights of women.
The same day a bill was introduced to give
property rights, and rights to children and to
women in a degree never known in Kentucky
before.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE OPPOSING PARTY.
			------
	What meaneth the sound of tumult--this
array of words, trying by the force of their
power to bring trouble upon us? The spirit of
the evil one inspires the wicked, and they are
tools in his hands in this, his last struggle for
power and supremacy. His days are numbered,
his time  short, and with increased force and
venom he raises his hand against the people of
the Lord, the Latter-day Saints. He stirs up
the hearts of his followers to warfare with the
living God. It is not polygamy they seek to
exterminate, but by that as a handle seek to
exterminate the truth and drive it from the
earth, as once before it was driven. Will they
succeed? No, never! they cannot do it, for the
Lord has promsied, and it will endure.
	Howl on, corrupt politicians! Howl on, ye
who ought to be ministers of peace, but who are
ministers of war! The honest in heart will 
stand back aghast at your proceedings, and in
their hearts will condemn your works. Evil
spirits may rage, and Satan may plan, all all
will be confounded, for the Lord has spoken
and His word is true.
	Celestial marraige, that gives us power over
death, that unites in heaven as well as on earth,
that has no dissolution in it, is the present tar-
get. Celestial marraige, that brings the bless-
ings of the Lord, that is a commandment form
heaven, is what they pretend to aim at. Really
it is the kingdom of God, the truth from heaven,
and the people who obey the commandments of
God, against whom their hatred exists. The
same God who heard the prayer of Hezekiah
and smote the army of Senacharib will hear
our prayers and smite those who oppose us.
The same God that delivered Daniel from the
lion's den will deliver us. In Him we trust.
The power of the wicked will be broken, and
righteousness at last prevail.
				EMILY B. SPENCER.


THE MISSES Kollock are four typical western
girls. The family of W. E. and A. M. Kollock,
of Madison, Wis., consists of seven members,
four of whom are sisters. Of these, Dr. Mary
Kollock Bennett, the eldest, graduated at the
Woman's Medical College of Chicago, and for
many years has been practising successfully in
that city. The next, Dr. Harriet Kollock,
graduated in the medical department at Ann
Arbor, Mich., nine years ago, since which time
she has been eminetly successful in her pro-
fessional works. The third, Rev. Florence
Kollock, graduated at Canton Theological
College some years since, and is now doing a
good work as a pastor in a beautiful church,
built for her by the parish during the last two
years, at Englewood, a fine suburban town of
Chicago. Dr. Jennie C. Kollock, the youngest
sister, graduated in the dental department of
Ann Arbor, Michigan, last March, together
with a class of thirty-six gentlemen, she being
the only lady, and passing the highest examin-
ation of any in the class. She is now establish-
ing herself successfully as a dental practitioner
in Chicago.--Ex.

	THE WOMAN SUFFRAGE HEARING.--
A public Legislative hearing was given by
the Joint Special Committee to the petitioners
for Women Suffrage and others, in Boston,
January 30, at 9.30 a.m., in the Green Room
of the State House. It drew together a large
audience, which crowded the hall to its utmost
capacity. Hon. Wm. I. Bowditch, president
of the Massachusetts Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation, made the opening address with great
force and eloquence.
	Mrs. Lucy Stone spoke with much feeling
of the long thirty years, during which the
friends of Woman Suffrage had come annually
to this State House to ask for equal rights for
the women of Massachusetts. She appealed to 
the committee to make the case of the women
their own. She said: "The torn battle flags in
the rotunda show the strife men have made for
liberty and equal rights for me. We have
no battle flags to show for our cause, but thirty
years of our lives lie behind us devoted to the
great purpose of securing equal rights for
women. We have seen our youth and middle
life pass from us in  vain asking for rights
which all men have without asking, and now,
with old age coming on, we are still petitioning
for this sacred right of suffrage.--Ex.

	Augusta Moore says in the Evangelist: "I
took up a daily paper one day and saw nine-
teen divorces in it. I took up another and saw
five. I went to a certain church and found
there, in full communion, a woan who has 
two husbands. I visited the house of 'a lead-
ing member' in a church, and found there a
minister who has divorced one wife (a virtu-
ous woman), and is married to another. I 
know a minister who married a doctor to a 
woman for whom he had divorced his excellent
wife. This was in Clinton, Ct. Time would
fail me to particularize the cases of this sort
that I know, and I live among the best people
that there are in the world. These cases are
as plenty everywhere as they are about me--
indeed, much more so in many localities. A
friend writes me form California that it is
hardly safe to say 'divorce,' so many of 'the
very nicest people' have two or three husabands
or wives living. Now is not this an encour-
aging state of things? Is it any wonder that
some ministers are telling us how fast the world
is growing better, how the very millennium is
upon us? Is it to be feared we can hardly ex-
ert just the moral influence that is needed over
the Mormons till the States are reformed. Prof.
Austin Phelps says: 'We are not half awake
to the fact that by our laws of divorce and our
toleration of the social evil, we are doing more
to corrupt the nation's heart than Mormonism,
tenfold.'"--Cincinnati Times.


IN the Congress of the United States, the
House Committee on Rules have agreed to
recommend to the House the appointment of a
Woman Suffrage Committee of nine members

	ANTI- Polygamy petitions and bills for spe-
cial adverse legislation for Utah are creating a 
FURORE. The women of Utah are not excited,
for they know in whom they trust, and they
know their cause is just.

	MRS. J. R. Effinger occupied her husband's
pulpit at the Unitarian Church, Bloomington,
Ill., recently, and delivered a very able and in-
teresting address of "The Blessing of Giving."
It is said to have been a most impressive ser-
vice and a large audience.


IT would be difficult to name five more earnest,
intelligent,and high-minded women than ‘Grace
Greenwood,” “Mrs. Julia Ward Howe," "Jennie
June," Mrs. Mary Clemmer Ames, and Louise
Chandler Mculten, They are all journalists and
authors, and have all excelled as such.-- Ex.


H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
AND
BABY CARRIAGES
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY. 

MIDWIVES.

A COMPETENT MIDWIFE IS WANTED TO LOCATE
permanently as Castle Dale in Emery County. Special
inducements offered. Correspondence solicited.
Address: 		BISHOP JASPER PETERSEN,
				Castle Dale, Emery Co., Utah.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD
DENTIST.
	SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
	to Filling and Preserving the
	Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
	Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
	from one tooth to a Fill Set, in the
	Moet Approved Manner. PRICES
	to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.

OFFICE: - MAIN ST OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
	P O. BOX, 541.

Z. C. M. I.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS.
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obe in the West. 	Your Orders are Solicited.
		GEO. DUNFORD.

FOR SALE.
Home- Made SILK,
AT
OUTLER'S COMMISSION STORE.

A LARGE STOCK.
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,		Brown Yarns,		Cotton Batting,
Flannels,		White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys, 		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.
PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
		MRS, C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!
[line break]
F. AUERBACH & BRO.
HAVE
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS. 124 &126
CALL AND EXAMINE
Spring and Summer Goods.

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrates LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired of short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry 
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
	DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
			S. P. TEASDEL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 10. 			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1, 1882.


THE SACRAMENT
		BY HANNAH T. KING.
	"The Lord Jesus, the same night in which he was be-
trayed took bread, and when he had given thanks, he
brake it, and said, take, eat, this is my body which is
given for you, this do in remembrance of me. 1 Cor., xi
23 24.
	Betrayed! Oh! who may tell the agony
	That [xxx] upon the meek Redeemer's Soul
	As, in the hush o fhtat last solemn feast
	He looked upon His chosen Ones? Betrayed!--
	He found them wandring in a thirsty land,
	And he had led them unto living streams,
	And he had fed them with the bread of life--
	When crowds hung breathless on His miracles,
	Their post was at His side--in the still hour
	When He was wont to seek the quiet garden--
	Beneath the beauty of the starry sky,--
	Upon the mountain's top, on the wild waves
	That foamed around them in the midnight gloom
	They held communion with Him: Yet He felt
	E'en now, the traitor's kiss upon His cheek!
	The fierce denial sounded in His ear,
	He saw himself forsaken and alone,
	"Thou, even thou, mine own familiar friend"
	Oh! though more piercing than the cruel nail,
	Oh! anguish sharper than the wreathed thorn
	To Him, whose name is Lord whoever felt
	A sorrow like this sorrow?-- Mark ye well
	That pale, male brow so sadly raised to Heaven
	In uncomplaining woe, that tender form,
	Whose every nerve is quivering with intense
	Yet patient agony!--The Savior speaks!
	Peace while we bend in deep and anxious awe
	To catch the lightest murmur of His lips
	In this, His hour of suffering. Lo! He breaks
	And with a blessing gives the bread, as soon
	Aye! very soon His body shall be given
	For all! For us! then holding foth the cup
	Touching memorial of the precious blood
	That, ere another day hath run its course
	Shall stain Gethsemane, and Calvary.
	He says, "Do this in Memory of Me."--
	His gentle, mournful eye is fixed on us
	In pleading earnestness; His outstretch'd hand
	is kindly waiting for us; will we add
	One drop of sorrow to that bitter cup
	So full already? Will we wring the heart
	With yet another pang, that even now
	Is breaking with its load of misery?--
	We call ourselves His followers, we bear--
	His sacred name, shall we betray Him too?--
	No! gracious Master! erring tho' we be
	Unmeet, unworthy, not in vain to us
	Shall be thy las commandment, give that cup,
	That broken bread, we would remember Thee.
Salt Lake City, Xmas., 1881.


[Column 1]
		THE REASON WHY.

	What is the reason that all eyes are turned
toward Utah?  Why is it, while the  whole
civilized world is agitated by questions of
grave, social import, and men who sit in high
places fear and tremble on account of the se-
cret combinations and the dangers that increase
on every hand?  When even the head of the
Chief Magistrate of this enlightened nation
has been laid low by the hand of the assassin,
a would-be maniac?  And alas! it is not the
first, but the second of our presidents that has
basely fallen by assassination.  While crime
stalks abroad, unpunished, through the land,
and increases to such a fearful extent that the
laws of man are inadequate to reach it, and
new and strange diseases are exercising the
minds and battling the skill of the medical
[two unreadable lines printed backwards]

[Column 2]
faculty-for do not men and women constantly
violate the laws of  natural affection, and that
which was once considered the crowning joy of
woman, her motherhood, that honor which the
daughters of God's ancient people desired
above all things is cast aside by many as a 
thing of naught, and almost looked upon as a 
disgrace.  While the disobedience of children
is becoming proverbial, for there are but few,
comparatively, that give to their parents that
respect and reverence that their age and social
relations demand.  When we contemplate these
things, is it any wonder that the whole head is
sick and the whole heart faint?  Can the
Christian world tell us the reason why these
things are so?  Can the politicians solve the
problem?   No, they cannot; for does not bold
infidelity walk with the unblushing front, seeking
to destroy the ancient landmarks, daring to 
trample on the laws of God and bid defiance
to his power, and the thoughts of men wander
hither and thither, and fail to find a resting
place in the systems taught by the theologians
of the day.  Can the Christian world find a
remedy for these evils?  No, they cannot; or
at least they have failed to do so.
	What then is the reason that all eyes are
turned toward Utah?  Towards the handful
who were driven into the wilderness, who under-
took what seemed to be impossibilities to re-
deem this barren region of country from the
wild beast and sage brush, and made the wil-
derness to "blossom as the rose," that they
might serve God according to their consciences,
and enjoy the liberty guaranteed to them by
the Constitution of their country.  For this
privilege they were willing to suffer hunger
and thirst, and many laid their bones by the
wayside; for this they fought the cricket and
the grasshopper, and while themselves suffer-
ing for sufficient food, divided their scanty
portion with the Red Man, that they might
teach him the art of industry and to live in
peace with the white man and each other?
	What, then, have the Mormons done, that
this hue and cry should be raised against them?
Why are their names cast out as evil?  Why
are all kinds of absurd falsehoods manufac-
tured and sent abroad by evil-minded men,
who seek to work us injury, by men who
come into our midst to gain wealth?  They
belong to the same class that cried out in the 
days of Paul.  "Great is Diana of the Ephe-
sians."  Not that they cared for Diana, but
because their craft was in danger, for they got
their wealth by making images for  her shrine.
How can we bear all this misrepresentation?
It is because the Lord has said, "Blessed are
ye when all men speak evil of you falsely for
my name's sake," and notwithstanding all the
trials the Latter-day Saints have gone through
there is one woe they will most certainly escape:
"Wo be unto you when all men speak well of
you."  But why all this intolerance against
the Mormons?  It is because the Lord has
again spoken from the heavens, and set His
hand to bring about His purposes in the last
days.  It is because the little stone that was
cut out of the mountain without hands has
commenced to roll, and will continue to grow
and increase till it shall fill the whole earth,
and none can stop its progress... Man may
rage and imagine all kinds of vain things, but
vainly do men seek to overthrow the designs
of the Almighty, or stay the hand of Him
[two unreadable lines printed backwards]

[Column 3]
who saith to the raging sea, "Be still, thus far
shalt thou go and no farther; here shall thy
proud waves be stayed."
	We put our trust in Him who setteth up
kings and putteth them down, and one shall
dare to say, What doest thou? This is the God
in whom we trust, and He will not suffer His
people to be confounded. This is the 
<i oj="" gnol="" i="" i'k-j.—’i="" "tt'tt-—-—-i="" ,.="">can afford to say to the wicked, and to our
oppressors, Get you gone, I have nothing to do
with you; the reign of righteousness is about
to be ushered in; and I have my work to do,
and hope to play my part in the great consum-
mation.
					PHEBE C. YOUNG.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	A GERMAN lady, Elsie Von Koeber, proposes
an organization of Women for the purpose of
promoting and encouraging female emigration
from Europe.
	MARY L. Haggart asks: "If men are so cor-
rupt that they cannot be permitted to vote with
women, ougt they to be trusted to vote for
and represent women?"
	GOVERNOR Cornell, of New York, says that
"the voting of women at the school elections in
New York has increased the proficiency of the
school and added to their intelligence."
	THE late Mrs. Eliza F. Eddy, of Boston,
Mass., left property valued at about $50,000
to be divided equally between Lucy Stone and
Susan B. Anthony for use in the woman suff-
rage work.
	QUEEN VICTORIA'S speech at the opening
of Parliament  of general interest: "My lords
and gentlemen, it is with much satisfaction that
I again invite your advice and assistance in the
conduct of public affairs. I have given my
approval to a marraige between Price Leop-
old and the Princess Selina of Waldeck. I
have every reason to believe this will be a hap-
py union --Ex

	THE birthday of Susan B. Anthony was cel-
ebrated in Indianapolis Ind.	Feb. 15, at the
residence of Dr. and Mrs. Carey. The papers
speak of it as a charming affair. Many people
of note editors and writers assembled to honor
the labors of this pioneer worker in the cause
of woman suffrage and to give expression to the
feelings of love respect and admiration they
entertain for this able advocate this heroic
champion of equal rights. Miss Anthony has
been before the public thirty-four years, teach-
ing moral responsibilty and citizenship for
women as well as men.
	OSCAR WILDE the apostle of Enlish aes-
theticisin now visiting Boston, is a son of Lady
Wilde, a poetical contributor thirty years ago
to the Dublin Nation. He stands siz feel one
in his stockings, --and irreverent exchange re-
marks that he is a good deal taller than his
poetry. At his lecture in Music Hall the other
evening he wore clothes like a man, and the
sixty Harvard student occupying front seats
in bicycle stockings and bearing sunflowers,
"who came to scoff remained to" --get rather
the worst of it; for Oscar, having had wind of
their intentions, in a little prelude turned the
laugh on them. --EX.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S SUFFRAGE CONVENTION.

	    STATE OF NEW YORK

	    	  CONCLUDED.

  Having two or three hours on our hands be-
fore the evening lecture, we (Sister Young,
Dr. F. and myself,) went up to the Fifth Ave-
nue Hotel, where on a luxurious sofa we pleas-
antly spent the hours of intermission inter-
changing thought by reviewing the proceedings
of the day.
  The evening hour drawing near, we went
early, that we might see Miss Anthony and re-
ceive a book purchased after the morning ses-
sion.  We had a few moments of very inter-
esting conversation with her upon several
points, especially upon Utah representation on
the Suffrage question, the history of which she
was anxious to secure to insert in the coming
volume of suffrage history.  Her prompt re-
quest of us to name some one to whom she
could apply for the Anti-Mormon account was
so markedly in contrast to the interest usually
manifested in hearing the Mormon side, that I
could not refrain from drawing her attention
to the fact right there, by saying: "Were you
always so eager to hear our side on all matters
of dispute concerning us as you are the anti-
side, we would suffer a great deal less from
misrepresentation than we now do.  The direct,
telling truth and the appropriateness of the re-
mark were appreciated by her and for a moment
she seemed a little nonplussed, but soon rallied
and made some remark concerning how carefully
they had to guard the cause by shunning even
 the appearance of evil; which seemed to be
the interpretation of allowing Mromon women
to be represented on the platform, especially
now in the present feverish state of society.
She also very truthfully said, that at Washing-
ton it was very different, and we could be rep-
resented there, and that though she had not a
shadow of a belief in the principle of Plural
Marriage, she had no schism on the suffrage
question.  For our part we felt there is suffi-
cient truth in our cause to preserve it and let
it bide its time, without asking for opportunity
to tell our story,
   The evening session was occupied by Mrs.
Gougar, of Lafayette, Indiana, Phebe Hanni-
ford, and appropriately wound up by one of
the finishing touches of the convention, a
speech by Miss Susan B. Anthony.
   Mrs. Gougar is editor of Our Herald, the
principal exponent of suffrage now that Mrs.
Gage has relinquished her paper.  Mrs. Gon-
gar is a most pleasing appearing woman, and a
very graceful speaker.  Her speech was par-
ticularly characterized by good, practical, com-
mon sense and convincing argument, and pos-
sessed the one simple, strong point of truth.
   The next speaker was Mrs. Phebe Hanni-
ford, a minister.  Her sweet, placid face, and
the soft, liquid fire of her great, dark eyes,
attested the earnestness with which she engages
in any conflict for truth's sake.  Her speech
was impressive, but brief, and its crowning dif-
ferentiating feature from all the other speeches
was that she asked for the fruition of  her
hopes and desires for the cause, through the
name of the Lord Jesus.  Why did not all
do so?
   Miss Susan B. Anthony now took the plat-
form, as a fitting apostle to close the conven-
tion.  Now everybody who is not as mean and
green with prejudice and jealousy, as a tomato
worm, cannot help admiring and liking Miss
Anthony.  If she is terse and decided, and hits
the nail a peeling clip square on the top of the
head, is not that the way to do, when we are
in dead earnest to accomplish anything?  The
sacred Book says there is a time for everything,
and there are certainly many times in one's
life when it is a time of not mincing matters.

[Column 2]
She is thoroughly convinced that it is next to
impossible to get the masses of people to do
something of which they know nothing--that
is, voting for the franchise of woman.  Though
thus morally convinced of the little to be ac-
complished by lecturing to the masses, she
heroically intends to keep on trying.  We
were forced to leave during her lecture, but I
can assure you nothing short of the vivid pic-
ture of having to walk all the way to the ferry,
and swimming East River, a mile wide, and
walking two miles with our dresses fringed
with icicles, could have raised us from our
seats to leave her most interesting lecture.
   If I understood Miss Anthony aright, she
carried the idea that we had never made but
one regular effort at representation, and that
was when yourself and Mrs. Zina Young Wil-
liams went to Washington.  The truth is, that
the characteristic appreciation of the daugh-
ters of Zion of the true key stone of power
and strength, in the foundation of any commu-
nity or nation, is well expressed in the proverb
of "Charity begins at home," and they have
been so husily engaged in cleaning up the
House of Zion by teaching, encouraging and
endeavoring to direct in the best channels the
thoughts and lives of their sisters, that seem-
ingly the fact has not been considered that
there might be safety in having a few sentinels
stationed on the towers afar off.   I presume it
is true of woman's cause as of any other, that
to have its proper standing requires well-
directed representation.
   One little experience of Sister Zina D. H.
Young shows the actual power of the saying,
"Seeing is believing."  As she was standing
waiting to sign the memorial to send  the Leg-
islature, asking for the franchise of the women
of New York State, a lady close by her thus
addressed her: "I believe you are Mrs. Young."
Sister Young said, "I am."  And thereupon
the lady withdrew herself a pace, and, while
Aunt Zina stood there in her sealskin sacque
and velvet robe, but above all with the light
of truth beaming forth from every feature of
her face, she took a scrutinizing survey of her
from top to toe, and said, in accents of supreme
surprise, "Why, you do not look very degrad-
ed!"  The woman seemed totally oblivious to
the burning insult her every word, act and
look implied, but seemed wholly swallowed up
with her discovery.  And I dare say dear,
good Aunt Zina bore this with a smile; but it
has been proven, as Fanny Fern says, that you
can smile when you are the maddest.  But it
is to be sincerely hoped that such insults shall
not be so frequent as to induce in any one a
"chronic smile," a la Colfax.
   My attendance at the convention was quite
a digression on my part from my daily attend-
ance at the Eye and Ear Infirmary.  Rain,
snow, storm or sleet are mere feathers before
my all-devouring interest in this field of study.
When it is considered that the whole life of
many eminent men has been spent in the study
of the eye, and yet leaving many points open
for investigation, some idea can be formed of
the vastness of the field of inquiry afforded by
so small an organ. I feel to acknowledge the
hand of the Lord in the inspiration which
prompted my visit East this winter, for I
seemed to be ripe for the harvest; for I know
that I have gained a more comprehensive grasp
of the vast subject, and dipped deeper into the
minutiae of it, during these three months, than
I possibly could have done in years alone.  I
only regret that I cannot stay longer, but the
home notes sound loud in my heart, and I must
return at latest by the middle of May.  I
have given the ear of throat also close atten-
tion, for our climate or country would seem to
be predisposing to all these diseases, judging
from the number afflicted.
   I will not indulge in any platitudes of how
I long to be at home with you again, for just
as true as twice one in two, any true Latter-
day Saint woman, when she turns her back
upon Zion, has to possess more will force than
the wife of Lot had to keep her from looking
back all the time.  I pray for you all, but my
deepest and strongest prayer at present is for
myself; and I hope my friends securely at
home will also remember me in theirs, that I
may again soon be safe at home in Zion, for I
fully realize the strength of Zion is sufficient
for the day, and if all men fail, the One at the
helm will not.
		Affectionately yours,
				ROMANIA B. PRATT.
   292 Carlton Ave., Brooklyn, Feb., 4, 1882.


ANSWER TO SOME FACTS.

SOME facts have been given of the state of
affairs in the States. Here are the facts that have
occured in Utah among the despised Latter-
day Saints. Here I am aquainted with many
noble women, who of their own free will have
given other wives unto their husbands, who are
a blessing to their families and to their associ-
ates. I have stood by the grave of a dear
friend, a first wife, and when the coffin was
lowered have seen the second wife clinging to
her husband weeping in bitterness of grief, for
the loss of the first wife, who had been such a
comfort and blessing to her and her children.
	I have known of childless first wives, imitat-
ing the example of the peerless Sarah, giving
other wives to their husbands, and furthermore
caring for the children as if they were their
own.
	I have been acquainted with second wives
who have willingly given their first born to
the childless, first wife, who has nourished and
raised it on her own.
	I have known of the first wives treating the
wives of their husbands as daughters affection-
ately and kindly, because they were younger
than therself; and again second wives honoring
and respecting the first wife in every possible
way.
	At the funeral of a second wife, I have seen
the first and third wives mourning the loss of
the one departed and knew that their hands
had helped to array the silent form in spotless
white, and placed within the marble fingers the
sweet, white flowers.
	In sickness one wife will minister to another
with the greatest solicitude and tenderness.
	Another, in a time of sickness of her husband
and second family has provided bread for
them to eat from her own resources, although
she had a large family, of her own, and had
always helped the second wife in raising her
family, because of her ill health.
	I was acquainted with a lovely woman, who
on her death bed, chose a wife for her husband
and when she found the parties were agreeable
to her wishes, felt satisfied, knowing in whose
hands she would leave her children.
	Another estimable woman while she lived
took care of the aged second wife, surrounding
her with every comfort in her helplessness, but,
although younger, passed a way first.
	These are some of the fruits of plural mar-
riage and are they evil?
	"By their fruits ye shall know them" whether
good or bad.
EMILY B. SPENCER


IT is only by labor that thought can be made
healthy; and it is only by thought that labor
can be made happy.—Ruskin.
IT is a great virtue to restrain the tongue, to
know how to be silent even though we are in
the right.
THOUGH flattery blossoms like friendship, yet
there is a great difference in the fruit.—Socrat[-]


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE TERRIBLE MORMONS.

"Who hath believed out report? And to whom hath
the arm of the Lord been revealed?

Ah! wherefore these sounds from afar?
This tempest of wrath in our ears?
The hisses of hate, and the fury of War-
Such whisp'ring of horrible fears?
From abroad, and at home on the winds sweeping by-
Is wafted the woful, and wearisome cry.

Ah! wherefore the Nations distress?
What calamity crosses their path?
Are legions their foes-even giants-no less-
Mighty men, than Goliath of Gath?
What danger impending creates such dismay-
That the civilized world are in battle array?

In the Vales of the mountainous West-
A sprinkling of people reside-
A handful at most-who believingly boast-
That the Lord is their friend and their guide.
"Gainst these "Terrible Mormons" are vengefully hurl'd
The malice of millions, the wrath of a world.

And why do the multitude sit
On a few, in such judgement and ire?
More crimes than the masses, do Mormons commit-
Provoking a tumult so dire?
"Away with such people" tis bigotry's cry;
Twas thus the Jews clamor'd, that Jesus should die.

A Seer, in the centuries past-
Had a vision, 'twas vivid and grand;
Its substance was this, that Jehovah at last
Would set up His rule in the land.
In the midst of the mountains, a people forsooth-
Should life up an Ensign, the bammer of Truth!

Did Daniel the dreamer, the Jew-
Ever see what a state, what a time,
Of trouble there'd be should his vision come true?
 No matter what age or what clime
Should God found a Kingdom, did Daniel foretell,
"Twould be so vexatious to earth and to hell?

Yea, the prophets foretold that the world
Would speak "gainst the Holy and High,"
Would war with His Saints, and encompass their camps
And in conflict, Jehovah defy-
That dominion and triumph at length should be given
To the Saints, who shall serve in the battle of heaven."

At present, "The Stone" is so small
That's destined to roll and to grow.
Why the Nations are troubled at all-
Is more than the half of them know;
Oh is't the conviction, the positive dread
That Truth so Eternal, must prosper and spread?

The "Terrible Mormons will keep-
On the track that they've started to go,
They labor to live, yea they plant and they reep-
Untroubled, for surely they know-
That He whose commandments they dare to obey
Doth care for His Kingdom, by night, and by day.
					EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
	S. L. City.


A MOTHER'S TESTIMONY

MY DEAR LULA:
	I have been reflecting upon the general sit-
uation of the Latter-day Saints and their ac-
cusers. Why is it that we have not more faith?
We who have cried unto the Lord, and had
our petitions granted time after time, how is it
that we cannot have faith sufficient to accom-
plish any and every righteous undertaking?
It is perhaps, not expedient that we should at
present, exercise that divine gift to the extent
that some of us might desire. Otherwise, I
think it would be given to us in a greater de-
gree than is yet manifested among us. We
know we have no reason to fear for the Lord
is with us and He is able to accomplish His
own purposes.
	It is a source of very great happiness to me,
that all my children are on the Lord's side of
the battle in this terrible day of calamitous

[Column 2]
events. How merciful the Lord has been to
me in answering my prayers in this matter!
For when my children were small and I used
to bathe their little bodies, it was my continual
prayer that God would keep them from sin,
cleanse their hearts and make them brave to
battle for the right and to over-come evil, that
they might be worthy to dwell with Him in His
Kingdom. I believe that each one of my sons
and daughters are now striving to serve the
Lord and lay up treasures in heaven. Have I
not reason to rejoice and praise God? I feel
like bearing my testimony to the truth of the
Latter-day work, with a desire that the same
may abide with my children and my children's
children forever.
	I had the great privilege of knowing Jos-
eph Smith personally; and I know for myself
and not for another that he was a true prophet
of the only true and living God. I know that
every principle brought forth and established
by him is of God, and that the Lord will sup-
port and sustain those who will be faithful and
diligent in upholding and defending those prin-
ciples.
	The enemies of all righteousness are blinded
in regard to the plan of salvation and the re-
demption wrought out by the atoning blood of
Christ. Hence they wage war against those
who would meekly strive to follow out the pat-
tern given by Jesus, and execute the purposes
of His Father upon the earth. They complain
of the so called"Mormons" because they make
covenants with the Lord by sacrifice and re-
ceive the blessings which follow such works.
It is something of which they are entirely ignor-
ant, and into which they are determined not
to get an insight; but still they must complain
and strive to get control of the people who are
seeking to serve God that they may prohibit
the building up of His Kingdom upon the
earth. But they will be disappointed in their
designs as those people were  sought to
take away the rights of the Prophet Daniel, so
that he should not even pray to the Lord whom
he served. Did those people believe in God
or in His prohpet? They had the same respect
for holy beings and sacred things that our per-
secutors have to-day. What did they accom-
plish? Their own destruction! And those who
are seeking to destroy the Latter-day Saints
and the Priesthood of God from off the earth
today, will accomplish the same thing from them-
selves.
	My children be true to God and to your-
selves. Shrink not from any duty however
dark the way may appear before you. Put
your trust in God, knowing that this life is of
but little moment compared to that which
awaits the faithful followers of Jesus Christ,

	"Eye's not seen the untold treasured,
	Which the Father hath in story,
	Teeming with surpassing pleasures,
	Even life for evermore!"

	Your father joins me in best love and con-
stant prayers for your present and eternal wel-
fare.
		Your affectionate mother,
					Susan K. Greene


SELF GOVERNMENT

Self-government is the power of controlloing
the mind; a person exercising it must accord-
ing to phrenology, possess a great amount of
intellectuality. The mind of man, like a gar-
den, must be cultured and pruned; the soil is
never so rich but stray weeds peep forth occa-
sionally, and gaining strong hold, choke a ten-
der flower by which they chance may spring.
Self-government is the basis to all success; it is
gained by unswerving confidence in one's self
avoiding trepidation by keeping constant vigi
over--every thought, word and act; thus pre-
venting extremes, and preserving an "even
tenor of preceedure, in all transactions, men-
tal or physical. To know thyself is to be a
king - a God of the frail, mortal bark you
possess, which, if not carefully piloted, is tossed
from wave to wave on the sea of life, like a
vessel void of a helmsman. A man possessed
of self-government is referred to by his imme-
diate acquaintances as the embodiment of man-
liness; his every act so accords with what God
destined man should be, that he is pronounced
and acknowledged as a person of firm, resolute
determination. A forcible character, accom-
panied by gentleness, hospitality and sound
reasoning faculties, is the result of a constant
toning of the passions. How loved is one thus
endowed! His society is ever courted by those
of a genial spirit, and envied by those lacking
this fortitude of mind, whose immoral views
are based on circumstances, and whose minds
revolt at the idea of penetrating the recesses of.
a noble virtuous man's character.
Firmly anchored by self-government, the
tensions, of the brain is tested without injury;
impressions are chronicled and retained, until
the mind is an overflowing storehouse from
which the capacities draw, as they require;
universal knowledge becomes visible, and the
face its index, beams as a star when lit up
with the pure spirit of an honorable self-
willed man. His ideas, carefully adjusted and
clothed rise before us like crystal streams of
living waters issuing from a fountain, whose
particles set free, separate and revive the droop-
ing twig near by, imparting to it a refreshing
glow, and receiving for recompense the parched
leaflet's apparent recovery.
From a moral standpoint, the majority of
mankind have unconsciously drifted far from
the path of decorum; hence, to assert supremacy
over this common current, one must, as it were,
stand a  ne, and bear unfeeling, keen animad-
ver i  ms, hurled from a heartless commuuity;
with the one comforting thought that the, mas-
t r of himself, can withstand the tempter's
fiendish wiles, and will eventually be compli-
mented by those very ones who at first ridi-
culed his integrity of manhood.
While the two widely differing personages
are before us, let us scan their countenances;
one bear the likeness of his Maker; intelli-
gence, nobleness, and valor blend and send
forth an assurety of their presence by that
bold, frank, noble look. The other - what a
contrast! How wide the chasm! Wrecked
manhood and vice have left their traces; the
furrowed brow and tainted air tell their own
story; the sullen eyes shrink from the steady
gaze of the former, and too late he finds him-
self a slave. No one can depend on him; his
word is naught; he is liable to change with the
first ebbing tide; like driftwood, he is floating
down the stream of life, to lodge against the
first obstacle; while the self-possessed man
moves in society that his deportment com-
mands. He is honored and sought for counsel,
is a nucleus round which many rally for sup-
port; thus, endowed with capabilities, he be-
comes a ruler. What a marked affinity be-
tween such a character and out God, who evi-
dently, first learned to govern Himself, ere He
entrusted in His care, our earth. Reflect, O
ye Christians! how great will be your joy
when you appear at the immortal bar for judg-
ment, if those life-giving words greet your ears,
"Well done, thou good and faithful servant."
This we can only meet by having had con-
stantly for our motto, "Know thyself." In
conformity to the example portrayed by our
Father in Heaven, and as architects of our
own characters, it becomes incumbent, as obe-
dient children, to lay as the foundation stone -
Self-government.
					JENNIE HARRIS.
	B.Y. Academy, Provo, Feb. 12, 1882.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	Emmeline B. Wells.	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00 one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time. $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street.  Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher Woman's Exponent,
			Salt Lake City Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY.  		MARCH 1, 1882.


[Column 1]
WHY WE SHOULD SPEAK.

	So much is being said about the "Mormons,"
in the Congress of the United States, in the pul-
pits of ministers of all or nearly all denomina-
tions, in the newspapers and journals of the day,
that a thoughtful person would be inclined to
ask himself the question—is it not a greater vir-
tue to maintain silence on the subject than to
speak? To stand still and see the salvation of
God! Or if one speaks at all to be sure and do so
calmly and advisedly. Although it is an old
proverb that "silence means consent." If the
silence of this people could by any means be
construed into meaning consent to the calumnies
and wicked misrepresentations circulated about
them, then it would seem as if, verily the whole
people should raise their voices and cry aloud!
Certainly the most atrocious falsehood are pub-
lished about the "Mormons," and those who are
not well informed in regard to the subject will as
a matter of course believe these terrible things if
the other side is not presented. Consequenly a
statement of facts seems absolutely essential in
the present crisis of affairs.
	The Territory of Utah is in a most prosperous
condition, the present government affording am-
ple protection for all classes of citizens, were the
laws properly administered. And while there is
ample security for protection of life and property
and all have an opportunity to pursue whatever
employment or industry they choose, and to
worship God according to that form of religion
they see fit, or in accordance to the dictates
of each one's own consciences; and in
view of the peace, prosperity and growing
wealth and importance of the industries of
various kinds in Utah it seems strange that
apparantly sober-minded people, possessed of
good common sense should desire to provoke any
issue detirmental to the interests of so flourish-
ing a portion of the great Republic.
	And yet when the facts stare one in the face,
that public sentiment has been so throroughly
aroused as to urge upon Congress, the adoption
and enforcement of such extreme measures, a
are meditated by that august assembly in dealing
with the "Mormons," it becomes a sacred and
solemn duty, to claim protection from that gov-
ernment, which has proclaimed religious free-
dom to all the world, and under whose stars and
stripes, thousands of the people now declared
disloyal have been born and reared.
	It has been asserted that Utah is peopled with a
foreign element, who are anti-republican in prin-
ciple. "Mormonism" grew up in America in the
soil of the Republic; all the early followers or
disciples of the faith were citizens of the United
States. Many of them still live, but those who
have died, have left children and grand children
who are also citizens in their own right, withou
the process of naturalization. There are men and
women here who are as proud of their lineage a
any other of the descendants of the noble heroe
of 76. To call them the offscouring of the nation

[Column 2]
low and ignorant is to disgrace their glorious an-
cestry, who fought and bled for the liberty, now
enjoyed by American citizens.
	To be sure, "Mormon" Elders have gone abroad
and preached the Gospel among the nations as
well as in these United States, and thousands of
honest souls have been gathered out from abroad
and have emigrated to America and dir[-]laimed
all allegiance to foreign powers and become good
citizens, helped to build up the country, and sus-
tain the Constitution in all good faith and sin-
cerity, believing America to be "the land of the
free and the home of the brave."
	The present Legislative Assembly of the Ter-
ritory only contains nine members who are not
native-born citizens which is one of the
proofs that a good proportion of the population is
American. Statistics of Utah plainly show the
people are not ignorant. The women of the Ter-
ritory, taking them as a whole are well informed
on all the general topics of the day. In every
town and settlement there are organized socie-
ties where they meet together to be mutually
instructed on questions of a social, political,
moral or religious nature.
	Those unacquainted with life among the Mor-
mons, cannot realize how devastating and des-
olating would be the consequences of the blow
now aimed at Utah by the rulers of this nation,
were it to fall upon the people as is anticipated
by those who have succeeded in part in accom-
plishing their wicked designs.
	But there are still some brave men, who dare
to maintain the principles of equality and jus-
tice, for the oppressed in face of the bitterest op-
position, and these few, may save the honor of
the nation; may by their sound reasoning and
high-minded and broad philanthropy, cause Con-
gress to pause and deliberately consider the cost
of the work it has undertaken to do, before care-
fully going over all the ground. In the mean-
time, this people have the right of defending
their faith and practices, as they may think best;
it is only consistent that being so much talked
about they should make some positive vindica-
tion of the truth, of the doctrines as they un-
derstand them, for which they are ostracized.
Petition and memorialize the American Con-
gress, that its members may be left without an
excuse, should they go to such extremes as to
bring themselves under condemnation to a fu-
ture day. But as one honorable man of the world
remarked to the writer not long since:—"I am
fearful," and said he "I use the word understand-
ingly in its fullest sense that the rulers of this
nation will do something which they will regret
in a day to come, because it will be contrary
to the spirit of freedom guaranteed to all men
under the Constitution."


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE blanks for the Y. L. M. I. A. reports are
for sale at the Deseret News Office; also blanks
for Primary Associations.

	QUESTIONS and Answers, by E. R. S. Smith,
for sale at this office; price, twenty-five cents.
Primary Hymn Books, two for twenty-five
cents; Correspondence of the Palestine Tourists,
cloth bound, $2.25, leather gilt, $3.00; Poems by
E. R. Snow, second volume, are also for sale
here, price, $1.25 and $1.75.

	WE learn, by letter, that the two children
emigrated last year from England by the mem-
bers of the Primary Associations in Brigham
City, have been provided with comfortable
homes in families, where they will have the ad-
vantages of being properly trained and instructed.
A noble work, a blessed work for these children
to do.

[Column 2]
	Articles laid, over for next issue; Deaths, Mrs.
Sarah Very, Mrs. Mary Ann Ellis and the Life
Sketch of Elizabeth Ann Whitney which is too
lengthy for this issue, but will be given in our
next number in a complete form with a poem
written on her last birthday Dec. 26, 1881. A
Distinguished Woman and Scenes and Incidents
in Nauvoo will be continued. "Some Facts that I
Know," and another article addressed to Mrs.
Emily Scott, also a second article from Mrs.
Scott herself.

	MRS. Sarah M. Kimball, Secretary Presiding
Board Relief Society, requests all Stake Secre-
taries of that organization to forward semi-
annual reports as early as the 15th of March, as
she is required to hand in the general report to
President Taylor's office ten days previous to
the April Conference. Last October there were
five Stake reports too late to be included in the
general report. Secretaries should pay particu-
lar attention to this notice, and govern them-
selves accordingly.

	THE Secretary of the central board Y. L. M.
I. A. requests all Stake Secretaries of Y. L. M.
I. A. to forward their semi-annual report as
soon as possible, in order that the general report
may be handed in to Prest. Taylor's office ten
days previous for the April Conference. Direct
Miss Louie Wells; care WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
Salt Lake City, Utah: Stake reports of Primary
Associations should also be forwarded, in order
to have a general report prepared for the coming
Conference. Direct to Lillie Freeze, Salt
Lake City, Utah.

	THE sisters of the Relief Society of South
Cottonwood met at the residence of Sister Mag-
gie Cahoon, at 11 o'clock a. m. Feb. 13, as a sur-
prise party for President Jeanette Cahoon. After
the party had convened some of the sisters went
to the residence of Sister Jeanette, and returned
with her to the residence of her sister, Maggie;
each heart was filled with joy to meet with their
worthy President, who has labored so diligently
for the past fourteen years for the benefit of the
Relief Society. They then presented to her a
handsome easy chair, together with other pres-
ents. She appreciated the good feeling and
thanked the sisters for this demonstration of
respect to her. Thirty persons sat down to din-
ner, and the tables were laden with the bounties
of the earth; after which singing, recitations,
and other amusements were indulged in until
six o'clock in the evening, when the party re-
turned home, feeling amply repaid for the visit.

	THE Woman's Conference in this Stake of
Zion will be held on Friday and Saturday, the
10th and 11th inst., in the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Hall. It is earnestly requested by
the Stake Presidents of the respective organiza-
tions that there be a good attendance from all
parts of the Stake, if practicable. Some impor-
tant business will be brought before the Confer-
ence. The Relief Society will hold their meet-
ings the first day, Friday, 10th, and on the
morning of the second day; Saturday, 11th, the
Primary Conference will be held. It is expected
all officers of these association who can make
it convenient to attend will do so. If the
weather is fine, the children who reside in the
city will be expected to attend their Conference
on Saturday morning. The Young Ladies Con-
ference will be held in the afternoon of the same
day, at two p, m., and it is sincerely hoped there
will be a prompt attendance of all officers and
as many members as possible. If the house is
too small, which we sincerely hope may be the
case, no doubt the Conference will adjourn to
the Assembly Hall, or some larger building.
Secretaries of each organization should be on
hand with reports in good time.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM
	Died at the residance of her son-in-law F. J. Vin-
cent, Panacca Nevada, Rosina: widow of the late
James Tregeagle of New Zealand. Deceased was
in her 50th year, was a native of England where
she embraced the Gospel many years ago.  Mrs
Tregeagle was a great sufferer for years previous
to her death, being afflited with an incurable
cancer or tumor. She was gentle, refined and
patient, a true Latter Day Saint and one who had
made great sacrifices for the sake of her religion.
She died in the hope of a glorious resurrection.

	Marion Khrstinia Jenson Welbye born April
the 9th 1827 in Grimstrap, Maribo [-]olland, Den-
mark died Febuary the 14th in 1883 of disease of
the howels.  She was baptised in 1863 and came
to Utah in 69, the next year.
	She has been a faithful Teacher in the Relief
Society of Manti for many years always on hand
to perform every duty for the interest of the So-
ciety and the Kingdom of God, and through
great affliction she has gone to her reward.
"Peace to her ashes."    REBECCA WAREHAM

	Died in Tooele city Jan. 21st 1882 of general
debility Mailda Bates, daughter of James and
Vina Reeves and wife of the late Ormus E.
Bates; decased was born Rochester, New York
April 11th 1827, was baptized into the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day saints in the year
1813 emagrated to Utah 1851 and lived in Tooele
county until her death; she was an exemplary
and faithful adherant to all the principles of the
Everlasting Gospel and died full in the faith.
She leaves one son and three daughters and a
large circle of relatives and friends to mourn her
departure;  she was also a Teacher to the Relief 
Society which position she honorably filled till
her death.  She was followed to the Meeting
House by her Relatives and the Officers and
members of the Relief Society, where comforting
and consoling remarks were made by Patriarch
John Rowbery, and Pres. Gowans when the large
cortege followed her to the cemetery and her re-
mains were consigned to her last resting place
to await the resurrection of the just.
				ANN TATE, Cor, Sec y.,

	Sister Rhode H. Foss Richards, daughter of
Calvin Foss and Sarah B. Carter, was born April
19, 1830, in the town of Saco in the State of Maine,
was baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints by Prest. Wilford Woodruff
in the Autumn of 1844, and gathered with her
mother brother and sisters to Salt Lake City in
the year 1850.  On the 30 of November 1851 she
was married to the late President Willard Rich-
ards and by him became the mother of Calvin
W. Richards who married Emma I. Walker a
grand-daughter of Patriarch Hyrum Smith and
is a resrected citizen residing at Farmington in
Davis County.
 On March 6th 1857 she became the wife of
Apostle F. D. Richards; located with other mem-
bers of her family in Farmington; and there has
borne three sons and a daughter. Hyrum and
Ita have departed Ezra and sarah remain to
mourn her loss.
 Sister Rhode Richards won the love and es-
teem of those who knew her by her dutiful and
consistent life as a Latter.day Saint.
	She accepted and obeyed every doctrine and
ordinace of the Church that was required of
her and lived in dutiful conformity therewith.
She taught her children the principles of the
Gospel and had the great satisfaction to see them
walk in the ways of the Lord while they lived,
and those who sleep to depart in the faith.
 The illness which terminated her earthly
career at 10 o'clock a.m. Nov. 19, 1882 was of a
protractrd and serious character which has con-
fined her to her room and bed for more than two
years and a half during all which she manifested
the faith and patience which are the fruit of an
abiding hope.
	When but a few days before her death her hus-
band enquired how she felt about his going with
others of the Apostles and Presidency on a short
mission to the Southern part of the Territory?
She replied go Franklin and do your duty, all
will be well with me.
 She has ever been an obedient duitful child, a
faithful and affectionate wife, a loving and in-
dulgent mother and an exemplary confiding
Latter-day Saint. May her rest be glorious un-
til the resurrection of the just, when they shall
come again to earth and bring their glory with
them. -Com.
 At the time of Sister Rhoda Richards death
Elder F. D. Richards was away upon a mission-
ary tour in the southern part of the Territory
and where the telegraph could not reach him.
His wife Rhoda had been so long ill, that there
seemed no immediate danger when he left
--otherwise he would certainly have remained at
home but he was absent dong his Master's work
and she knew it and was satisfied to have it so.


[Column 1]
MEMORIALS TO CONGRESS.

	We publish below a copy of the Memorial
to Congress from the women of Utah, and also
one from the young ladies, that are being circul-
ated throughout all the Stakes of Zion for signa-
tures. They are an embodiment of the senti-
ments held by the women of Utah in re-
lation to the excitement aroused against this
people, and the action of Congress in the prem-
ises:

To the Honorable the Senate and Hsuse of Repre-
sentatives in Congress Assembled:

	We, the women of Utah, view with deepest regret
the bills that have been presented in Congress dur-
ing the present session, asking for special legisla-
tion for our Territory; which, if carried into effect,
will destroy the peace, tranquility and prosperity
which have heretofore characterized our dearly
loved homes. We were driven to these mountain
vales by the cruel hand of persecution, while on
our journey as outcasts and exiles, our sons, hus-
bands and fathers were called upon by the nation
to battle for American rule in this country, then a
portion of Mexico, and after struggling through
privation and hardship such as men, women and
children have seldom endured, your petitioners,
many of them descendants of the Pilgrims of New
England, with their fathers, husbands, brothers
and sons, found a barren desert, inhabited only by
savage Indians and wild beasts; here we have la-
bored with the courage and endurance born only
of religious faith, in helping to establish homes for
ourselves and our children, and have made it easy
for those coming at a later period, who found these
valleys blooming with beauty, and teeming with
plenty to enjoy all the blessings which pertain to
life and happiness.
	And we most respectfully represent to your hon-
orable body, that the bills aforesaid, now pending
in the Congress of the United States, are further
calculated to destroy our birthright of liberty, the
glorious heritage bequeathed by our noble ancestors.
	And furthermore, we are well aware, that the
present excitement in the nation is the result of ig-
norance and misrepresentation; and that the aim of
our enemies is to rob us of our hard-earned homes
and to plunder the public treasury. These schemes
have been concocted by sectarian priests and politi-
cal [---], and by women who are the tools
of wicked and designing men, both men and women
unscrupulous in their enmity and mendactons in
their statements, although they have homes and
houses of worship in Utah Territory, comprising
nearly all religious denominations, and are pro-
tected in all their rights as citizens, and as reli-
gious worshipers, without the least intrusion or
molestation; and who, instead of reforming the
morals of the community as they perfidiously pre-

[Column 2]
tend, have assisted in introducing and sustaining
in our midst, the most demoralizing institutions
known in the world.
	And moreover, we, your petitioners, hereby tes-
tify that we are happy in our homes, and satisfied
with our marriage relations, and desire no change.
We are not the "oppressed and down-trodden wo-
men" we are represented to be, but enjoy more
rights and freedom than women elsewhere in the
nation, and we do know that our institutions are of
such a nature as tend to purity of morals and ele-
vation of character. And we most solemnly aver
before God and man, that our marital relations are
most sacred, that they are divine, enjoining obliga-
tions and ties that pertain to time and reach into
eternity. Were it not for the sacred and religious
character of the institution of plural marriage, we
should never have entered upon the practice of a
principle which is contrary to our early teachings,
and in consequence of which our names are cast
out as evil, by the Christian world.
	Therefore, we most respectfully appeal to your
honorable body to forbear hasty and reckless action
in regard to so important a matter as the politica
disorganization of the most prosperous and flour-
ishing Territory of which the nation can boast; and
before proceeding to radical changes, to do your-
sleves the justice to investigate, by a commission
of honest and intelligent men and women, the true
condition of the "Mormon" people of Utah Territory,
	And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever
pray.

To the Honorable the Senate and House of Repre-
sentatives in Congress Assembled.

	Whereas, Certain bills are now pending before
your honorable body, which, if passed, will break
up happy homes and families and produce untold
misery, sorrow and suffering; will deprive us of
the kind, fostering care of honorable, upright, God-
fearing fathers, and drive forth our precious, loving
mothers as outcasts; as those who have no right to
the honored name of wife, and also cast opprobrium
upon many of us as illegitimate; and,
	Whereas, The passage of such bills would de-
prive our fathers, mothers and brothers (and our-
selves, when properly qualified) of the right of
franchise, and, in fact, of all the rights of Ameri-
can citizens, debarring us of the free exercise of
our holy religion, which is dearer to us than life
itself, and would be contrary to the spirit of the
glorious Constitution of our country, which we
have ever been taught to revere as an inspiration
from Almighty God; for we have been taught, and
conscientiously believe that plural marriage is as
much a part of our religion as are faith, repentance
and baptism; and,
	Whereas, In our opinion, the cause of the intro-
duction of such bills has been the false representa-
tion of evil disposed persons, who assert we are
low, ignorant, degraded and disloyal: and, feeling
assured that, had your honorable body been truth-
fully advised in regard to the people of this Terri-
tory, such bills would never have obtained a hear-
ing in the Congress of this mighty nation;
	Now, therefore, we, the young ladies of Utah
Territory, do most solemnly and truthfully declare
that neither we nor our mothers are held in bond-
age, but that we enjoy the greatest possible free-
dom socially and religiously; that our homes are
happy ones, and we are neither low nor degraded:
for the principles of purity, virtue, integrity and
loyalty to the government of the United States
have been instilled into our minds and hearts since
our earliest childhood.
	According to what we read, and can learn from
other sources, in no place in the world is female
chastity and virtue guarded with more jealous care
than by our people; for we have been taught and
do understand that this is our greatest boon; far
above jewels or wealth, and more precious than
life itself, and we therefore most respectfully me-
morialize your honorable body to suspend further
action on all bills relating to Utah, and send a com-
mission of honorable, intelligent and unprejudiced
men and women to inquire into, and learn the true
state of affairs in this Territory:
	And as in duty bound, your memorialists will
ever pray.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	PROTEST OF A "MORMON" WOMAN
				-----
  DAUGHTER OF HEBER C. KIMBALL.
				-----
	The Latter-day Saints should not be sur-
prised at anything, for the Lord has told us
through His ancient prophets as well as through
Joseph the seer of the awful calamities and
judgments which are surely coming upon the
nations, and he said that they should commence
at the house of the Lord.  The following is from
one of Joseph's revelations, "Behold it shall
come to pass that my servants shall be sent forth
to the east and to the west, to the north and to
the south, and even now let him that goeth to
the east teach them that shall be converted to
flee to the west, in consequence of that which is
coming on the earth and of secret combinations.
Behold, thou shalt observe all these things and
great shall be thy reward, for unto you it is
given to know the mysteries of the kingdom,
but unto the world it is not given to know
them."
	At the present time things look rather dark,
but I think there will be no trembling nor
shaking of the knees among the ones who are
in the enjoyment of the Gospel of Christ for
they know that God is at the Helm and that
He will not suffer His own work to be over-
thrown nor will the principle of a plurality of
wives, which He commanded should be estab-
lished ever be uprooted by the weak and pusil-
lanimous arm of flesh.
	We as a people have suffered little or noth-
ing from the outside world since this principle
was established when compared with our former
experience in Oho, Missouri and Illinois.
The pure in heart have accepted it as a Holy
principle and practiced it in the fear of God,
who because of our sacrifice, has made us the
happiest people upon this earth and we are
willing to suffer and even to die for it if neces-
sary, but we will never deny it, no never! and
no one need flatter themselves that the Lord
will give any new revelation to that effect.
The Almighty hat nothing to do with bogus
revelations which the peeners and rappers have
been decieving the world with for so many
years.
	Truth is mighty and like the point of a dia-
mond it cuts as it goes, and I say let her be
honored and let my right hand wither or for-
get its cunning rather than deny one of God's
sacred truths, to please or to avoid displeasing
a set of apostate Christians.  They only make
Polygamy an excuse to draw the attention of
the world to cover their own dishonest and hell-
ish schemes: to rob us and drive us again and
to accomplish this they would stoop to do any-
thing, even to wipe us from the face of the earth;
but we are protected by a power which is un-
known and unacknowledged by the world and
we think it very improbable that we shall feel
obliged to move from here until the set time
of the Lord shall come.  The Latter-day Saints
have an inheritance in Jackson County, Miss-
ouri where the New Jerusalem is to be built,
and from present appearances one might easily
be led to believe, that this glorious event was
to be realized sooner than we had anticipated.
The Lord is able to soften or to harden the
hearts of men just as He sees fit, as He did in
the case of Pharaoh; to bring to pass His own
purposes, and if He suffers our foes to triumph
for a little season - it will be only in fulfillment
of the words of the prophets and we shall see
then who the Saints are, and who are the hyp-
ocites and every thing that is done to injure
us will serve to knit the hearts of the Saints
more closely together, and God grant that, that
time is not far distant; for our greatest troubles
have been traced to the treachery of men
and women who have been nourished and cher-
ished here in our midst, and our most bitter
opposers have been proven invariably to be
among the most wicked, licentious and corrupt

[Column 2]
portion of society and we have abundant
proofs, that such is the character of the most
polite, sleek and kid-gloved representatives of
our nation, who have perverted its laws and
are legislating and planning how to make slaves
of free-born American Citizens.
	Years ago the low lived plotters and schemers
threatened to place our fathers, brothers, hus-
bands and sons in chains and dungeons, but
found this a more intricate job than they had
anticipated, and it seems to me they have tried
almost every imaginable plan to bring us under
their feet, but every move they have made has
had the very opposite effect from what they
designed, and in spite of them prosperity has
attended this people.  They have ridiculed,
misrepresented and sworn falsely year after
year, and are still blindly pursuing the same
courses until their own feet are becoming en-
tangled in the very net which they have lain to
ensnare the "Mormons".
	Surely the wisdom of their wise men has
perished, and the understanding of their prud-
ent men are hid.
	How laudable is the course of these sectarian
demigogues who are uniting and gathering to-
gether their forces to rend asunder family ties,
to gore, and drive to desperation a virtuous in-
dustrious intelligent and common-sense, mind-
their-own business people who with sweat and
honest toil have made their homes and cities,
desirable. A little unarmed and defenceless col-
ony who came here years ago because we could
not be allowed the enjoyment of the rights
guaranteed us by the constitution of our coun-
try to worship God according to the dictates
of our own consciences; where we hoped to
dwell in peace and harmony unmolested by
wars, strife and contentions, and these blessings
we would be enjoying to day had not the rulers
of this nation departed from and trampled un-
der foot this same sacred constitution.  Many
Saints are still living who heard the Prophet
prediet this calamity, and he also said that this
people would rise up and save the Constitution
and bear it off triumphantly.
	I remember a time when the sympathies of
some of our far-off sisters were suddenly awak-
ened to the awfully degraded and suffering
condition of the poor, down-trodden women of
Utah, and some no doubt were honest, but
their liege lords thought themselves exceedingly
cunning when they proposed to grant us female
suffrage. which we received with thanksgiving
to the God of Israel, who we knew had moved
upon them to do this act; but they found too
late that their sympathies were entirely mis-
placed; for, to their awful chagrin and discom-
fiture, instead of releasing ourselves from the
supposed bondage of "Mormon" rule, we still
remained faithful to our our religion, which we
held the most sacred and clung to our own
husbands for protection from the vile and inhu-
man clutches of those pretended friends and
sympathizers.  They decided the grapes to be
sour. and the cry went forth "Disfranchise
the Mormon women!"
	Oh, ye speculators and pious (?) hypocrites -
professed champions of virtue! we could read
your thoughts and motives then as plainly as
we do to-day. Polygamy, and all your pity
for the poor, down-trodden Mormon women was
only an excuse, and a most feeble one, too.  I
would like to know how many there were who
pitied us when forced to leave our homes and
property in the beautiful city of Nauvoo, to
cross the Mississippi on the ice in the cold,
bleak month of February, 1846, enduring un-
told suffering for months, being destitute of
sufficient bedding, clothing, wagons or teams to
take us to Council Bluffs.  Being the intention
of Brigham Young to cross the Rocky Moun-
tains that year, we were placed upon rationed
meals, consisting some of the time of the fol-
lowing luxuries: parched corn meal cake and sea
biscuit or crackers broken into thin porridge o

[Column 3]
gruel, for which I had no relish, and forced to
travel a portion of every day on foot, to favor
the poor teams, which would sink deep into the
soft and muddy prairies; exposed to cold. most
of us being minus umbrellas to shield our
heads from the pitiless storms of snow, sleet,
wind or rain, and then under the scorching
beams of the summer's sun.  No matter how
weary, sick or wayworn we were, we still plod-
ded along day after day. often making but
three miles a day, the next camping place
being in sight of where we had pitched our
tents the night before.  Having no bridges to
cross the ravines, we had to make our own
roads as we went along; and these perils by
the way lasted until we stopped at Garden
Grove, when some of our men went down to
Missouri to work and to trade for cows, teams
and provisions which afforded some temporary
relief.  My faith during those days was hardly
equal to the trials, and time, with all its
changes, has not had power to efface them from
my memory.  If we ever stood in need of
sympathy, it was then.  But who cared for
"Mormons," or how the poor women and chil-
dren were faring when the strength of our
companies was taken to fight for the nation in
its war against Mexico - the nation that had
refused us their protection and driven us out
to die! Then our only alternative was to seek
for winter quarters, where the lone graveyard
lays a silent but sure witness against them.
	None of their ministers of the Gospel or gen-
tle sisters of charity sought us out during those
dark days of trial, nor did they care for our
welfare either temporal or spiritual - whether
our souls or our bodies were saved or lost, un-
til after "Mormon" boys had discovered a
gold mine in California; and while the gold
fever raged, the Gentiles were very glad to fol-
low in the trail of "Mormon" pioneers, who
had made the roads, built the bridges and pre-
pared a half-way place, where the impatient
and reckless gold diggers were glad enough to
find friends, where they could exchange their
exhausted teams for a fresh supply of cattle,
horses and mules to take them on to the gold
diggings.
	We could forgive them if they would ever
leave us alone, but can never forgot the trials
and sufferings passed through during that long
and terrible journey.  In that fearful time my
own health was wrecked and my life made one
of martyrdom, brought upon me by exposures,
hardships and privations, which I with the rest
of the Saints was subjected to during our exo-
dus from Nauvoo, and in the settling of this
far of and once barren country.  And for all
of this needless suffering we are indebted to
this nation, which it seems is now to be con-
trolled by priestcraft and sectarian bigots, and
they will ere long find that there is a big ac-
count laid up against them, which must be
settled sooner or later.
	The world may call us fools, or dupes to our
leaders, if they wish; we have become accus-
tomed to that, as we have to a thousand other
like falsehoods, and we can bear more than
any other people living.  But we protest
against this intolerant and inhuman course
which is now being taken towards an innocent
and law-abiding people; and as the natural in-
stinct of our nature is self-preservation, and if
a pack of interlopers should intrude themselves
upon us and try to take away our rights, and
trample us down, as they wish to it would be
very natural for us to say, "hands off!" and
we might possibly lose our tempers; for, if
forced to it, rather than let an enemy inhabit
my home, which is very dear to me, or become
their slave, I would apply the torch to it with
as much equanimity as we should have done
when we left this city in 1858, which threat
would have been carried into effect, had not
the Lord overruled it by causing fear to come
upon our invaders, which humbled them, and


brought an everlasting stigma upon our once
free and happy government. No free-born
American can become a slave, for that spirit
of independence and love of liberty which we
have inherited, not only from our New Eng-
land sires, but have nursed it from our moth-
er's breasts, revolts at the thought of submit-
ting to slavery; and I wish all to understand
that I am proud of this legacy, and glory in
the knowledge that it has been handed down
to my children. And should this be anything
strange, born as they have been in the midst of
persecution, with the memory of robbings,
drivings and bloodshed rankling in our bosoms,
wrongs for which we have sought in vain for
redress? These questions we leave for some of
the wiseacres to answer.
				HELEN MAR WHITNEY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 151


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

	Minutes of a meeting held in the 5th Ward
Meeting House Salt Lake City, Feb. 6th,
1882, for the purpose of organizing a Primary
Association. Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith
presiding.
	Singing by the children; prayer by Sis-
ter Horne. Sister Eliza asked the children
if they prayed and asked blessings on their food
told them that in the time of Joseph Smith, the
children had little meetings and bore testimony
and had the good spirit with them. Gave some
good counsel on obedience to those placed over
them, and on politeness to their companions.
She then proceeded to organize the Society, the
following persons were sustained as officers:
Myra Winter, President; Elizabeth Clark,
First Counselor; Sarah Page,Second Counselor;
Esther Davey, Secretary, Emmeline Pettit,
Asst. Sec., Edwin Pettit, Treasurer. Number
enrolled as members sixty-four.
	Sister Horne then addressed the children in
a very interesting manner. Singing by the
children. Prayer by Sister E. R. S. Smith.
						E. DAVEY, Sec'y.

PROVO.

	The Relief Society held a special Conference
in Provo Thursday, Nov. 15, 1881. Mrs. M.
T. Smoot presiding. After singing and prayer
Ma Smoot made a few excellent remarks, and
then Sister E. R. Snow Smith addressed the
congregation. I am thankful that you and I
my sisters were worthy to come forth in this
dispensation, that we are a portion of the
favored ones, and I am proud to be associated
with the faithful who are trying to build up
Zion. Our duties are multiplying and will con-
tinue, and we find that to-day we can accomplish
what we once thought impossible. I think we
do not search those sacred books that God has
placed within our reach as much as we should.
If the Bible, Book of Mormon and Doctrine
and Covenants could give us knowledge to find
gold, we would study them more than we do
now. We often wonder that we can forget
heavenly things and cling to that which is
earthly. God requires us to cling to that faith
by which the dead were raised and the sick
were healed. We need to draw nearer to our
God; but those things need not deprive a
mother from performing her daily, household
duties. She needs great faith to form the future
character of her children. I wish to speak to
mothers about sending their children to the
Primary Meetings. Children need constant
training and protection from the influences
that are creeping into our midst; do not neglect
your little ones mothers, let them go to their
meetings, or after awhile they will not want to
go. It is not of much use to educate the head

[Column 2]
if the heart is neglected, and if the Spirit of
God does not dwell in the heart. I often won-
der what we should have been if these societies
had not been organized. Let us be united and
put away every thing that is calculated to
devide. God has placed within our reach
means enough to insure our salvation. Who
are we? Why we are daughters of God! and
I once heard Joseph say that the least saint oc-
cupied a higher standing than kings or potent-
ates; but we all have to endure the trials of
life, for the Lord has said He would have a
tried people. If I had understood Plural Mar-
riage when I embraced it as I do to-day, it
would have been no trial to me; but I am
thankful to God that his grace was sufficient
for me, and if there are any here that do not
know for themselves that this principle is true,
let them seek to God for a testimony. God is
on our side we have nothing to fear from our
enemies they can go no farther than He is will-
ing; we want to have the peace of God within
us to strengthen both body and mind. Teach
your children the principle of tithing; teach
them by example; and it will be a principle in
their minds forever; let them grow up in the
habit of it, if you have but little get the bless-
ing of God upon it. I would rather have 90
cts with the blessing of God than the $1,00
without it. We were counseled last year, be-
ing the Jubilee year, to lend the grain that had
been stored up by the sisters. but that coun-
sel does not extend any farther than last year.
We are to go on storing up our grain as usual,
and after we give our wheat we have no more
claim on it; it belongs to the Lord, it is stored
up against a time of famine, not to be drawn
out till the Lord commands, it is sacred. I
pray that we may have the sweet commun-
ion of the holy spirit to be with us all, Amen.
	Ma Smoot: "I feel that I have been fed with
the words of eternal life, given by the holy in-
spiration of God, I feel grateful to the sisters
for meeting with us" etc, etc. Sister Louie
Felt "My mission lies more with the children
and I would entreat the mothers to send their
children to the Primary Meetings. We have
had a feast here this morning and I pray that the
words may sink deep into our hearts; my aim
is the same as yours,that we may make a bright
record for ourselves. I wish to say to my sis-
ters, let each one take the EXPONENT. My
prayer is that we may be faithful to the end.
	Sister E. R. S. Smith spoke on the contingent
fund for the Stake thought each society ought
to contribute to it, for what is the use of a
treasurer without a fund. Bishop Johnson;
I feel well in meeting with the sisters, I always
feel well paid although many will say I have no
time. Have we any time of our own? No! we
have not it is the Lord's. I was pleased to hear
the sisters speak on the subject of tithing; the sis-
ters should pay their tithing, and pay it cor-
rectly; I feel that we are a blessed people above
all other people and may God give us strength
to perform every duty is my prayer." Meeting
adjourned until 3 o'clock when the Primary
Associations of the city were to meet. The
Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Associa-
tions to meet in the evening.
				CAROLINE DANIELS, Sec'y.
MOUND FORT.

	EDITOR EXPONENT:—On the 1st inst., a
meeting was held in the Mound Fort School
House for the purpose of reorganizing the Relief
Society of the Ward, and organizing a Primary
Association. It was well attended by the sis-
ters, and children of the Ward. There were
present on the occasion, Sister Jane S. Rich-
ards, President of Weber Stake Relief Societies,
and Sister Harriet Brown, her first Counselor.
Sister E. Y. Stanford, Counselor to the Presi-
dent of the Stake Primary Associations, Bishop

[Column 3]
David Moore, and others. After the usual
opening exercises, the meeting was adressed
by Sisters Richards and Brown, and Brother
Moore and Stowell. Their remarks were re-
plete with wisdom, were chiefly directed to the
young, on the importance of Primary Assocoa-
tions and the duties to be performed by them
when they were organized.
	A Primary Association was orgonized, with
the following officers: Ann Mary Taylor,
President; Sarah Barker, and Silva Stone
Counselors; Eveline Barker, Secretary; George
Taylor, Assistant sec'y. Eltrida Barker, Treas-
urer. Forty-nine members were enrolled.
After some excellent remarks by Sister Stanford
to the officers and members, in regard to their
duties, the Primary Association was dismissed,
and the Relief Society continued in session.
	On account of the failing health, Sister Moore,
President of the Society, felt that in her feeble
condition she could no longer attend to the
duties of her office, and therefore tendered her
resignation, Having at all times found in her
a wise counselor, a nature noble and self-sacri-
ficing for others, good and noble and willing
worker in the duties of the Society, her resigna-
ton was reluctantly accepted. The Society
was then re-organized as follows: Annie Tay-
lor, President; Dina Rollins First Counselor;
Diana Moore Second Counselor; Annie D.
Taylor Secretary; Marion Hatch,Assistant Sec.
Mary C. Barker Treasurer. Remarks were
then made by Sister Richards and Sister Moore,
complimentary to the Society for the good they
had done in the past, and exhorting them to
faithfulness in the future, and the meeting
was dismissed by singing and prayer.
			ANNIE D. TAYLOR, Secretary.


REPLY TO EMILY SCOTT.

				BEAVER FEB. 14TH, 1882.

	DEAR EXPONENT.-The article by Emily
Scott was read by me with very deep interest,
but my daily duites are so are so pressing and I had
so much confidence that others of greater ability
would give the matter the attention which its
importance merits, that I excused myself from
replying to it, and looked forward to your next
issue with the expectation of great pleasure in
reading the able responses which I felt sure
would be made, But since all your best corre-
spondents seem to have been just of my mind, I
will even say a few words myself in behalf of
our much abused institution; though I hope the
lady realizes that in her short epistle, she has
asked questions enough that full and complete
replies would fill a volume; therefore I must
be content with only brief and partial answers,
at least for the present. The ocean is too vast
to be drained with my little tin cup.
	First, dear lady, bear in mind that we claim
a divine origin for our institution of plural mar-
riage; we consider it too vast and bold a scheme
for human good to have originated in the brain
of man. But, you object, it  is nothing new,
but a thing borrowed from ignorant, benighted
peoples.
	I hope to show you that our plan is as dif-
ferent from that of the Eastern Harems as day
is from night; and people who compare the two,
are not always anxious to do us justice.
	You have doubtless observed through life
that men and women are prone to see in others
the identical weakness or vice which is most
emphatic in themselves. For instance, the
man who is conscious of a lack of courage,
moral or physical, is ever ready to accuse others
of cowardice; seeming to think that thus he
will divert attention from his own weak point.
And the woman who habitually knows more
about her neighbors affairs than her own, is
not slow to call another a busybody when oc-
casion occurs.


Just so you will find it, on examination, with
those pious souls who "turn their eyes in horror
toward Utah," and who  talk so freely about
"pollution," "degradation" and "carnality,"
--not to mention more offensive terms--among
the Mormons.  I am not prepared to say there
are no exceptions to this rule, for of course
those remote from us, who have only report to
judge us by, are not to blame if their informa-
tion is not correct; but I know of no exception
among the "reformers" who come here profes-
sedly to teach us "civilization." Can you be-
lieve it? Some openly avow their preference
for open prostitution because--they say, "that
which a man buys and pays his money for is
honestly his." But they condemn as "filthy"
and all that, is vile an avowed marriage for time
and all eternity, responsible and proud fatherhood
and perfect chastity abroad. Any one who
reads the papers of the day, knows that sexual
depravity, in all its hideousness, is devouring
the men of this generation; besides thousands
of women, many of whom are of the purest and
most innocent of Eve's daughters. And it
would seem that no woman would dare to mar-
ry unless she were ignorant of the frightful
risks she incurs of allying herself to a monster
of personal uncleanness, and through him, to all
the "lost" women in her community.
	And when she finds herself thus victimized,
how bitterly might she reflect, that a man who
was already a kind and faithful husband, and
the father of blooming and happy children, in
these very facts gives pledges of his fitness to
become such to her. He is thus tested as she has
no possible means to test a single man. But
now you ask, "What of that wife and those
children he already has? Their feelings and
rights must be considered." Yes certainly.
The children are concerned in the question of
heritage; but under present conditions, es-
pecially among us, where a wife can have and
hold her own property during the lifetime of
the husband, instead of getting only an "incum-
brance" on one third of the joint stock after his
death, and owning not even her own apparel
while he lives, while, if there be no children,
the husband's relatives may claim two thirds--
here, I say, the matter of inheritance is less
affected, doubled by marriages than might be
the case elsewhere. And  the wife, if she is
steeped in tradition and has neither inspiration
nor information to open her mind to the cry-
ing need of the world, of purer homes, higher
motives in marriage, and better begotten, better
born children with which to people it, and if she
neither knows nor cares that in many cases mar-
riage as it is, is degradation without hope of res-
cue to many high minded, pure and noble wom-
en, she, of course will fret and waste her nervous
energy in jealous self-pity over the thought that
she gives all to her husband and receives in re-
turn only part of his attention, and regard.
And the more her inferior nature predominates
the more intense will be her self-torture, and
the more surely will she instil into the hearts
of her children her own shortsighted and self-
ish views, and thus render them turbulent and
disrespectful, first toward their father and other
members of the family, and afterwards without
fail they will become so toward herself and each
other; and thus she sets them as well as herself
outside the bounds of any blessings which might
accrue from the new plan of marriage, which
if rightly conducted, would be more like the
bond of union and strength among the sove-
reign states of our Republic than anything else
that I can compare it with.
	But suppose the wife to be well informed of
the condition of the world, its wickedness, its
woe, its cold-hearted and unabashed licentious-
ness on one hand and its consequent shame and
suffering on the other; though she never heard
of divine command on the subject, if she have
one spark of philanthropy in her soul, it must
seem that she would look upon her own chaste
God. Serving husband and wonder that any
save such as he should dare to wed a pure woman.
Then the baleful certainty that such as he are
few and far between, would suggest that his
love could safely shelter others besides herself;
and viewing the case in this light, women are
not few who would be largehearted enough to
willingly share their havens of refuge with
other good women, if only it could be done
without incurring a greater avalanche of scorn
and opprobium, than even that which follows
the unfortunates who have fallen into the
snares set for the feet of the unwary by the
friends whose delight is in their downfall.
	It is exemplified among us that some are
even brace enough to disregard that, but it
cannot be expected of all, at least not yet.
But oh, how are the might fallen, when she
who through love of God and humanity, freely
entered this ideal state, grows faint-hearted or
lets her lamp become extinguished, and begins
to repine, who after putting her hand to the
plow, finds that she has misjudged her strength
and turns back in the furrow. Self-distrust,
the cruelest of tortures, becomes her constant
companion, and she is unhappy and very apt to
make others so.
	Those who might enter this state heedlessly
or in ignorance of its vast significance must be
content to find "marriage a lottery;" though I
hope you will pardon me for thinking they in-
cur less risk of drawing a blank, than if the
marriage were monogamic, for I must consider
that the man who has the courage to contract
such a marriage in the face of the storm of rage
and menace which monogamy is now rolling up
against us, is something of a hero whatever
faults he may have.
	Mormon wives as a rule do not "worry about
bearing children."
	"Mormonism" in and of itself fosters a desire
to rear children, and the more devout the be-
liever, the more anxious to rear "a noble pos-
terity." It is the end and aim, the point and
focus, the heart and soul of Mormonism to im-
prove the human race; and this aim, however
falteringly pursued, at once dignifies and ex-
alts motherhood to such an extent as to set it
above and beyond all other pursuits and call-
ings, and you can easily see that in such a case,
womanhood cannot be degraded, nor matern-
ity become burdensome and undesireable except
indeed for physical and exceptional reasons.
	We cannot deny our weaknesses, our stumbl-
ings by the way, our failures in living up to
our high professions, but God himself cannot
do perfect work with imperfect materials, and
so we trust in Him, and do the best we can, hop-
ing our children, untrammelled by the tradi-
tions and inwrought prejudices which hamper
us, may accomplish more in one decade than
we in ten.
	I see that your swift thoughts have outrun
my slow words and arrived at my conclusion
ahead of me.
	Polygamy, as we view it, is not fit for the
giddy, the selfish and the wicked, but only for
the noble, the wise, the pure and the far-seeing.
It is a self-evident fact that the higher the em-
inence attained, the greater the disaster which
attends a fall, and in my humble opinion none
should enter upon this greatest of modern re-
forms without a large portion of that sublime
philanthropy and absence of selfishness, which
led Jesus to endure ignominy and torture to
bless a sinful world.
							Lu Dalton.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		AT TEASDEL'S
		SALT LAKE CITY

	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets; Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
	DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
				[---] TEASDEL.

		[Column 2]
	A COMPETENT MIDWIFE IS WANTED TO LOCATE
	permanently at Castle Dale [--] Emery County. Special
inducements offered. Correspondence solicited.
	Address:		BISHOP JASPER PETERSON.
					Castle Dale, Emery [--], Utah.

			DR. A. B. DUNFORD
				DENTIST.
					SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
					to filling and Preserving the
[picture]				Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
					Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
					from one [---] [---] [---] in the
					Most Approved Manner. PRICES
					to Suit the Times and First Class
					Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE: MAIN ST OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.

				Z. C. M. I.
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
		DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
			HEAVY & SHELF HAFDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
		AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

				THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
			BEST SELECTED STOCK of
			BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS
		Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
			Children's Fine Shoes
						Your Orders are Solicited.
					GEO. DUNFORD

				FOR SALE.
			Home-Made SILK,
					AT
	CUTLER'S COMMISSION STORE.

			A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOUSE MADE
	Blankets,		Brown Yarns,		Cotton Batting,
	Flannels,		White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
	Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
	[---],		Cassimers,		Washboards,
	Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
				MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to  call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velevet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers; Feathers, Plushes, Velevet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed.

			F. AUERBACH & BRO.
					-HAVE-
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS. 124 & 126
				CALL AND EXAMINE
			Spring and Summer Goods.

			DAVID JAMES,
	TINNER, CAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

			H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER[--]
			FURNITURE,
SPRING. BEDS, WIDE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
				AND
			BABY CARRIAGES.
		75,77, & 79, First South Street,

			SALT LAKE CITY


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 10.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15, 1882.	No. 20.


QUERY.

I heard a Prophet, one who stands
With name unsullied high in Zion's land,
Thank God, his God and ours, the season
Of his youth was passed while this our
Mountain home was free from all the dire
Temptations, the fruits of evil that beset
Our youth to-day

			Then unto me there came this
Thought—Why must we bear this curse?
Have not the fathers and the mothers
Borne their parts with faithfulness,
Have they not magnified the truth before
High heaven and led their children
								In the path of life?
Are not these children heirs of righteousness,
Is it not these that were reserved for
This set time, this great last day
When mighty men and women too
Should stand upon the Earth,
Should bravely, nobly stand for God and right?
Then wherefore should they fall,
Where is the Fortress weak that the Arch
Enemy has thus crept in and set his
Nets and laid his snares here in
						The very heart of Zion?
If ours the fault, may we not plead,
With God in faith and power, to
Break the chains and set the captives free;
To lift this heavy cloud from off our land,
To help her sons and daughters rise with
One united voice and bid the tempter flee?
That while the world unites to lay Christ's
Kingdom low, to scatter desolation wild
And ruin in our peaceful vales and
Mountain homes, that Zion may arise
And shine, the pure in heart the brave
And true, and there be found no enemy
Within her gates.
			Then might the Great King come and
Claim His own, then might his
Banner wave, and Babel know without
A doubt, with whom it is they cross
The sword, and try their strength;
And learn at last that Christ is
King and Lord of all.
									HOPE.


EPISTOLARY EXTRACTS.
		-------
BY HANNAH T. KING.
		-------

	Your last letter was very suggestive to me,
and set my mind upon a retrospective train;
and now I am going to give you the sum and
substance of my meditations, which I assure
you were agreeable and  edifying to me;  for 
they took  me back to  phases of my life that
the sunshine of memory still lingers  over, for 
I realize in those epochs I received an impetus
that propelled me on to exaltation of mind and
character.
	Have you not realized in your past life, how
beneficial the association of some whom you
met in the path of life had been to you? Did
you not feel, when in their company, that you
seemed to spring to a higher grade of intelli-
gence? That the influence they threw around
you was like that we experience  in the first
vernal days of  the year? Every facutly in you
seemd fertilized, as though you were receiving
a newness of life! that your own mind produced
qualities you had not dreamed were there! your
perception became quickened, your compre-
hension clearer?  These  associates  became to
you  like Mentor to Talemachus! I feel that a
mind like yours, that has ever been open to
the pure and the beautiful, must be humble
and teachable; and must have experienced this
delightful spiritual intercourse, at least once
in your lifetime; and if you  trace back that
association, you will perhaps be astonished to
find how your mind has been colored and your
character moulded, by that intercourse! It
might be, and probably was, a woman much
older than yourself--one who had passed
through a hard school of experience, in that
finest of all schools, the world; who had seen
in it much that was beautiful--had even seen
in it the footprints of Deity--but had also seen
much that was chilling to the soul, and freez-
ing up of the affections. Yet there was that
strength and healthiness  in her composition
that defied disease, or even contamination; she
came from the furnace refined, purified and
strengthened. Such a woman is "an angel in
the way;” she has the faculty to develop the
characters she comes in contact with in the
journey of life, bringing out the latent talents
which even the possessor was not aware of!
Such an associate enlarges the heart, broadens
the brain, dispels narrow prejudices, expands
the sympathies,  destroys false knowledge,
teaches us not to waste and fritter away our
precious life and the time allotted us in trifles,
in this wondrous age of change and progress!
	To such a friend we owe a debt which noth-
ing but gratitude and appreciation can repay,
but carrying out in our lives the lessons they
so faithfully and lovingly exhibited for us to 
learn to practice.
	I would affectionately call  upon my young
sisters to reflect for a few moments on the few
hints I have just given; they are pictures drawn
from my own life! no fiction or imagination in
them, but evangel truth.  Let them be as one
of the silent voices by which we are surrounded,
to whisper to them to be careful with whom
they associate; for a real, true friend, one from
whom practical instruction can be derived, I
would say, choose one who has had a practical
experience--one who has walked the road of
life with her eyes open, and every faculty cul-
tivated and awake. In such an one there is
a set of beautiful, complex machinery, ready
for action, whether for the useful or the orna-
mental, whether for the intellectual or the
physical,  whether in "the house of feasting or
the house of mourning," in all she will be
equally ready and equally "at home."


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The Ladies' University at St. Petersburg has
a physical laboratory with 130 students, a chem-
ical laboratory with 60 students, and a phys-
iological laboratory with 100 students.

	HISTORY of Woman Suffrage in Massachu-
setts" by Mrs. H. H. Robinson has this pecu-
liar and significant motto to the title, "Woman's
hour has struck."

	A BILL has passed the Kentuckey senate
giving married women the right to own real
and personal property in the same manner that
the husband can, property belonging to him.

	THE Speaker presented the Memorial from
the Utah Legislative Assembely asking Con-
gress to suspend action upon Utah affairs until
a committee of investigation learns the fact and
lays a tangible foundation for rational proceed-
ings. Referred.


THE women of Massachusetts are making
special effort to secure municipal suffrage this
winter.

	THE first prize for cocoons at the Philadel-
phia silk fair was awarded to the mother of the
late Bayard Taylor.


ELIZABETH ANN WHITNEY.

   It is pleasant to reflect upon the many sweet as-
sociations we have had with those who have been
faithful servants and handmaidens in the Lat-
ter-day work.  The subject of this brief sketch
was one of the most truly refined of women.  In
spiritual cultivation she ranked among the
highest, and her grace of manner, courtesy and 
kindness won all hearts.  She possessed that
genuine simplicity which is ever childlike and
which invariably reminded one of the Savior’s
words, “Except ye be as this little one, ye can
in no wise enter into the kingdom of heaven."
	Elizabeth Ann Smith was the daughter of
Gibson and Polly Bradley Smith, and was
born the day after Christmas Dec. 26,. 1800 at
Derby, New Haven Co. Conn.  When young
she received what in those primitive times, was
considered a superior education; for in addition
to the common branches taught in the village
schools, we learned the art of dancing, un-
der the best masters.  Her early home-life was
most happy, and she grew up in an atmosphere
of love and tenderness without care or sorrow.
She was carefully instructed in all household 
employments, and in spinning flax and fine or-
namental needle work, these things in those days
were considered essential branches of woman’s
education.
	When about,18 years of age she went with
a maiden aunt,  Sarah Smith (spinster) to
Ohio on a visit, but it so happened that she
never returned to her old home again, nor did
she ever afterwards see her beloved mother.
She married Oct. 26, 1822 Newel K. Whitney
a young man from Vermont, who had estab-
lished himself in mercantile business in the
West, and after their marriage they settled per-
manently in Kirtland, Ohio. Subsequently
Bro. Whitney and wife became devoted mem-
bers of the Campbellite Church.  (In 1830,
Parley P. Pratt visited Kirtland and preached
the Everlasting Gospel, and among the first to
receive his testimony were Brother and Sister
Whitney, who were baptized in November
1830.  At that time Sister Whitney had three
children living and two had died.  The follow-
ing Spring when Joseph the Prophet and his
wife Emma went to Kirtland it was at the
house of Newel K. Whitney they were gladly
received and hospitably welcomed.  Many of
the revelations given in that early day, Joseph
recieved in one of their upper rooms.  The gift
of song which Sister Whitney possessed in such
a rare degree was often a comfort to the Pro-
phet in those days of trial and gloom.  He
would sit as it were spell bound and listen to
the rich melody of her magnificent voice for
the time so absorbed, as to forget his sorrows.
Very early in the Church she receieved the
gift of tongues  which manifested itself to her
in songs of praise and rejoicing.  She possessed
a reverential, prophetic and poetic tempermeet
and the spirit of the Gospel strengthened in
her all these exalted attributes.  The language
she sang, was the pure Adamic and Joseph pro-
mised her if she used the gift in wisdom she


[Column 1]
should never lose it and his words were verified.
	If all the hymns, psalms, and songs she has
given utterance to had been written, we should
have a choice collection of musical pieces.
Her voice was birdlike and full of symphony,
	Sister Whitney removed from Kirtland to
Illinois in 1838, and arrived in Nauvoo in the
spring of 1839.
	In Nauvoo the beautiful home of the weary
Saints who had fled from the mobs of Missouri,
there was much suffering from chills and fever,
it was what is termed an ague country, and the
people were not prepared to battle with it.
The family of Bishop Whitney were afflicted
with this terrible disease, all succumbed one
after the other until there was not one left to
wait upon the others; but kind and loving
friends ministered to them and on more than one
occasion the Prophet Joseph himself prepared
tea and took to them, offering it himself for their
nourishment. Sister Whitney was very delicate
and had been accustomed to servants to wait
upon her, now she was ill and a family of
children sick looking to her and no servant
to help her, but few luxuries and poor accom-
modations, still no complaint ever escaped her,
no repining for the home she had left. She
cheered and encouraged her husband through
all the trials they experienced, and was a help-
meet to him in very deed.
	In 1840, before they had succeeded in get-
ting a home of their own or any comforts
around them another son was born which in-
creased the number of children to seven and
the mother's care and responsibility was thus
enlarged but no murmur was ever heard from
her lips. Her smile was as sweet, her voice
as musical as ever, and the sisters who were
greatly perplexed with many things, and often
sorely tried, would go to Sister Whitney for
counsel and sympathy and she turned none
away empty, but in her beautiful way strength-
ened them in humility and good works, thus
helping to lift the burdens that oft press heavily
upon womankind.
	Sister Whitney was one of the very first of
her sex who received the ordinances of the
House of the Lord and to officiate as a Priest-
ess in holy places and afterwards in the Temple
in Nauvoo where hundreds of the daughters of
Eve were blest under her hands. When the
Relief Society was organized in Nauvoo she
was chosen and ordained First Counselor to the
President, Emma Smith, and being possessed
of the greateat genuine sympathy and benevol-
ence she was well adapted to the position, and
filled it with honor and credit, gaining the love
and gratitude of all to whom she was called
through circumstances to minister, ever be-
stowing favors and blessings in the most unos-
tentatious manner. Sister Whitney has always
been possessed of great, yea, mighty faith in
administering to the sick and afflicted.
	In Nauvoo the Church progressed rapidly in
knowledge of things pertaining to preparation
for a future state. Many wonderful principles
were revealed to the Prophet Joseph and from
him to his faithful brethren and sisters. Sister
Whitney was one of the purest of women and
was therefore a chosen vessel of the Lord.
She was taught the principle of plural marriage
by the Prophet himself and as a proof of the
testimony she received from the Lord in ans-
wer to prayer; she and her husband gave in
this order of marriage their daughter Sarah
Ann when seventeen years of age to the Pro-
phet Joseph, with their free and full consent.
She was the first woman given in this dispensa-
tion with the consent of the parents. These
things were not done rashly but in the fear
of God with fasting and prayer. In Jan-
uary 1844, Sister Whitney became the honored
mother of the first child born in the new and
everlasting covenant of marriage, a daughter
whom the Prophet blessed when a babe and
named Mary.

[Column 2]
	It was very early in the year 1845 that Bis-
hop Whitney decided to enter upon the practise
of the principle of plural marriage, and his wife
freely and with characteristic magnanimity of
soul gave her consent for others to share with her
the home and society of the husband she loved
and honored. Such proof of devotion to prin-
ciple cannot be ignored by One on high, who
sees not as man sees, and those true daughters
of Sarah who established the new and ever-
lasting covenant of marriage upon the earth
in this dispensation have secured to themselves
"a more exceeding and eternal weight of glory."
	In February, 1846, when the Saints were
exiled from their homes. while the Mississippi
was frozen over, Sister Whitney left her com-
fortable home, and crossing the river on the
ice with her little children, who were feeble
and sickly, she bade adieu to all, without ever
repining, and endured all the hardships inci-
dent to traveling through a new and unbroken
country. In consequence of exposure, and
sleeping upon the cold ground, she contracted
rheumatism, from which she never entirely re-
covered; she suffered very greatly, and at one
time almost entirely lost the use of her right
arm; through faith and anointing it was re-
stored, though never entirely free from pain. 
	While encamped at Winter Quarters Sister
Whitney had another son born, making eleven
children in all that she had borne. She suf-
fered very much, but she had always a testi-
mony to bear to the truth of the Latter-day
work. Her little son was called Newell Mel-
chizedek, and although he was small and fee-
ble, yet she clung to him with that marvelous
faith which she possessed in such an eminent
degree, and when to all human evidence he
seemed to be dead, she cried unto the Lord,
and He gave her the dead to life again in an-
swer to prayer. In Winter Quarters, Sister
Whitney passed through some of the most try-
ing ordeals which woman could suffer and live,
yet her faith remained unshaken, and she
seemed to draw still nearer to the throne of
heaven, laying all upon the altar for the Gos-
pel's sake. She had the joy and satisfaction of
having her two eldest sons, Horace and Orson,
among the pioneers who came to this valley in
1847. In May, 1848, she, with her husband
and family started enroute for the valley in the
company of Heber C. Kimball. The toils of
that wearisome journey, to that frail, delicate
mother, with her large family and helpless
babe, no tongue can tell, nor pen portray.
Only the angels, who possess infinite power, can
make a fitting record of such devotion and
heroism. Arriving in the valley in October,
worn and weary with fatigue and hardship,
Sister Whitney still preserved the same sweet
spirit and equanimity of soul. She had always
a word of consolation for those who had not
the same unbounded faith, and her charity, for
the weak and tried ones was most sublime.
	In September, 1850, not quite two years
after arriving in the valley, Bishop Whitney
died very suddenly; it was thought by many of
Sister Whitney's friends she could not long
survive after this sudden shock; and besides,
the Bishop had been a most attentive and de-
voted husband, almost anticipating her every
thought and wish. But Sister Whitney rallied
quickly, and accepted the conditions of her be-
reavement without complaint. Her little son,
who was afflicted with disease of the spine re-
quired the most constant and tender care, and
in her love for him and her anxiety he should
grow up to manhood, she was so intensely ab-
sorbed as to forget her other griefs and cares. 
	As soon as a place was prepared for endow-
ments, President Young called upon Sister
Whitney to take charge of the woman's de-
partment; and, leaving her little lame boy in
care of her daughter, Ann Maria, she went
day after day to bless the daughters of Zion,
and continued in this holy calling for many

[Column 3]
years, until her failing health would no longer
admit of the labor.
	In 1855 her little son, Newel M., died; but
he had lived to receive the ordinance of bap-
tism, and been ordained to the holy priesthood,
and so this faithful mother laid him away, feel-
ing that all was well and God knew the best.
She ministered for years after in the Endow-
ment House, which seemed the greatest conso-
lation after the death of her darling boy.
Her children one by one married, and her
home became more lonely, until at last she left
it to reside with her youngest daughter, Mary.
The same angelic spirit ever seemed to hover
over her, and wherever she went this sweet in-
fluence accompanied her. The sisters will re-
call with feelings of satisfaction the sweet mel-
ody of her voice, as she poured forth songs
of blessing and praise, in the pure language in
which she sometimes sung in the meetings in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms. But
she has gone from our midst; we miss her sweet
associations, but her memory will ever be fondly
cherished in the hearts of the women of Zion.
	Sister Whitney had been for more than
thirty-one years a widow, and for many years
the cares of life pressed heavily upon her, but
her spiritual nature was always equal to the
temporal burdens, so that she was never really
cast down, but buoyant with faith and hope.
We cannot mourn for her, for we know she is
happy; her pure spirit is free and untram-
meled, and she rejoices with those who have
gone before—Joseph and Hyrum, her own be-
loved companion, with whom she is reunited,
her little ones and the hosts of Saints who
await the morning of the first resurrection. 
Farewell, dearly beloved Mother in Israel, till
we meet again where there is no more parting
for ever and ever.
	Sister Whitney was the mother of eleven
children, six of whom are now living; she had
thirty-three grandchildren and thirteen great
grand children. She occupied at the time of
her death the position of Second Counselor to
Sister E. R. S. Smith, President Presiding Board
Relief Society.
	Perhaps no woman was better known in Is-
rael than Sister Whitney, unless it be Sister
Eliza. These two were intimately associated
from the early days of the Church in Kirtland,
and even before, in the Campbellite Church,
of which they were both members.
	The funeral of Sister Whitney was held in
the Salt Lake Assembly Hall on Friday Feb.
17th, at ten o'clock A. M. There were many
children, grand-children and other members of
the family of Bishop Whitney present, also
many officers and members of the Relief Society.
The hall was well filled with brethren and
sisters.
	A harp woven of choice and fragrant flowers
was laid upon the coffin a beautiful reminder
of the sweet angelic voice that has so often
gladdened the hearts of many. Also a sickle
wreathed in lovely white flowers and a sheaf of
wheat truly emblematic in its signification.
	Pres. A. M. Cannon conducted the services.
The Tabernacle Choir rendered "O my Father
thou that dwellest" Prayer by Elder John
Pack. Singing "Nearer my God to Thee."
After which remarks were made by Coun. D.
H. Wells, Elder Lorenzo Young, Apostle Wil-
ford Woodruff, Pres. Joseph F. Smith and
Pres. A. M. Cannon, the speakers dwelling
much upon the exemplary life and amiable
character of the departed. Choir sang "How
firm a foundation" &c. Benediction was pron-
ounced by Pres. Cannon.
	When the procession arrived at the cemetery
Coun. Wells offered prayer, dedicating and con-
secrating the ground. Choir sang, "There is
sweet rest in heaven."
	We publish, as a fitting testimonial of her
life and character, the poem written for her on
her last birthday.					E. B. W.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TO MOTHER WHITNEY.
	----
<wu9tne, voice="" tl="" fa="" .="" fjbpromotlng="" peace—defending="" right.="" :.="" .i="" t="" -,="" 010="" bearenly="" light.="" .,i="" ..="" jthf="" pgmdwne,="" whose.ateady="" glow,="" has="" markedthy="" footsteps="" here="" b$low;="" made="" .tiiy="" earthly="" life="" divine,="" ‘'andwlth="" empyrean="" luster="" shine.'="" ’="" i="" 6h;3we="" would="" bless="" thee="" on="" this="" day,'="" ‘="" ;="" -="" ju="" nwwhlle="" yet="" encased'in’mortal="" clay,="" 1="" sbtt="" "="" whlje="" thy="" sympathetic="" heart,="" can="" to="" our="" 6onls="" such="" joys="" impart;="" is="" till="" while="" we="" hear="" thysweet="" refrains;-="" fap-and="" profit="" by,the="" mystic="" strains,="" bitrhat="" 001110="" as="" b?m,erapblc="" lyres,="" ,,="" and="" kindle="" trutisimmortal.fires.="" rr="" esdly="" give="" words="" oi'cheer,="" ip="" comfort="" herev="" wf="" jji="" tyonld="" keep="" from="" the="" world'above,1="" u="" 3="" <’="" earth="" with="" heaven’s="" lore.="" v="" tefil="" lo'nr="" belfish="" love="" here,="" iil="" forever="" iq="" lower="" sphere;="" ,="" r="">ON HER 81ST. BIRTHDAY, DEC. 26TH, 1881.
	----
Daughter of peace - to thee our lay,
Shall be attuned this natal day.
We fully recognize thy worth,
and bless the day that gave to earth
Thy spotles soul, with grace refined,
Where all the virtues seem combined.
Celestial hosts with us rejoice,
To hear thy fearless, winsome, voice
Promoting peace - defending right,
Reflecting back the heavenly light.
The light divine, whose steady glow,
Has marked thy footsteps here below;
Has made thy Earthly life divine,
And with Empyrean luster shine.
Oh, we would bless thee on this day,
While yet encased in mortal clay,
While yet thy sympathetic heart,
Can to our souls such joys impart;
While we can hear thy sweet refrains,
And profit by the mystic strains,
That come as from seraphic lyres,
And kindle truth's immortal fires.
We gladly give thee words of cheer,
To bless and comfort thee while here;
Would keep thee from the world above,
To bless the Earth with heaven's love.
Our selfish love would keep thee here,
Forever in this lower Sphere.
Tis well we cannot this control,
To fetter thus thy spotless soul.
We only hope, for years to come,
Thy presence may adorn our home,
May cheer us with thy gladsome smile,
And weary hours of life beguile.
And yet we feel, that Angels bright,
In realms of glory, love and light,
Are waiting in supernal heights,
To waft thee home to their delights.
Already more than four-score years,
Within this gloomy vale of tears
Thy blameless life with love replete,
Has been our gracious paraclete.
When thou art gathered home to rest,
Thousands here whom thou hast blest,
Will herald forth thy righteous fame,
And venerate thy holy name.
Thy name, that now, to us so dear,
Our children's children will revere.
When earthly name in heaven shall be,
Transplanted in Eternity,
No name among the list will shine,
With brighter luster there than thine.
					ISAAC GROO.


[Column 1]

A DISTINGUISHED WOMAN.

ZINA D. H. YOUNG.

CONCLUDED.

	Sister Zina spent a few days looking about
New York City, during which time she called
upon Dr. Holbrook, editor of the Herald of
Health, who received her with great courtesy 
and kindness, and with whom she had a most
interesting conversation on Utah.
	Leaving the great metropolis, she went to 
Jefferson County to visit her relatives; her old
home, the home of her childhood, was there
also, and many pleasant memories were awak-
ened on renewing old acquaintances and ram-
bling over the familiar places, and recalling
the scenes and incidents of other days. Her
friends welcomed her warmly, and were de-
lighted with her personally, but her religion
they wanted not. Indeed, it was offensive to
some of them. She met with amny who be-
lieved in spiritualism and advocated strange
theories, counterfeits in some instances of the
ordinances and powers of the Priesthood. Sis-
ter Zina attended a great many meetings in 
the different churches, and heard many cele-
brated divines of the day speak on the doc-
trines of their respective denominations.
	In October last Mrs. Young attended the

[Column 2]

Woman's Congress at Buffalo N. Y., and had
the opportunity of hearing addresses from some 
of the most popular speakers of the women of
our time. She was refused even five minutes 
to represent the women of Utah on the subject
of suffrage, although Mrs. Spencer, of Wash-
ington interceded for it.
	After the Buffalo Convention, she went back
to Watertown, to the northern part of the 
State, and from there to the State of Vermont,
to visit other relatives and gather up genealo-
gies. While in that State she had the privi-
lege of speaking on one occasion at a Temper-
ance Convention. She visited in Albany Co.,
New York, where there are a few Latter-day 
Saints, and always spoke in the meetings she
attended.
	Mrs. Young returned to New York City in
time for the N. W. S. A. Convention of the
State of New York, which she attended, and
where she met Mesdames Anthony, Gage, Lock-
wood, Blake, Slocum and other noted lady
speakers. Mrs. Young was not, however, in-
vited to speak, although she could have repre-
sented a class of women who have exercised
the privilege of the franchise for twelve years,
and were well acquainted with its practical
workings. There is no denying the fact that
the only difficulty in the way of representation
was "Mormonism." But Sister Zina is a Chris-
tian, possessing that meek and quiet spirit
which is in the sight of God of great price; 
but the world does not recognize it. Without 
being aware of Mrs. Young's connection with
Utah and the Latter-day Saints, she might have
spoken anywhere that a woman would be allowed
the privilege of speaking at all. But while in
New York Sister Zina assisted the brethren in
organizing a Relief Society, and gave the nec-
essary instruction to initiate the sisters in their 
work.
	Lieut. Willard Young accompanied his
mother to West Point, where she had a most
interesting visit with Richard Young, from
Utah, now a cadet in the Military Academy
there.
	Mrs. Young went one evening to hear Dr.
Newman speak on Mormonism in a church in
New York City. His discourse was a tissue of
falsehoods on Mormonism throughout, and he
seemed to entertain a bitter and vindictive
spirit towards the "Mormon" people.
	Mrs. Young returned to this city on Tues-
day evening, March 7, and was made the re-
cipient of a surprise party of ladies, by her 
daughters, Mrs. Dougall and Mrs. Beatie. 
They had invited a few of their mother's inti-
mate friends to welcome her on her arrival.
Refreshments were served, and conversation
was free and unrestrained by coldenss or cere-
mony. Mrs. Phebe Beatie played in a very 
feeling and expressive style "Home Sweet
Home" on the piano.
	On the Friday following, March 10, the Re-
lief Soceity Conference of Salt Lake Stake
convened, where Sister Zina had an opportu-
nite of meeting and greeting many old friends,
who were ahppy in seeing her again in their
midst, and hearing her relate some interesting
experiences. The women of Zion welcome
Sister Zina back again to her mountain home;
here her worth is appreciated, here her labors
are greatly needed. The world know her not,
but in a future day they may perhaps be aware
of their error.
	There are many incidents in the lives of the 
women of this Church that are worthy of 
record, and will form interesting matter for
history; and foremost among those whose 
works of love and charity will help to embell-
ish history's page, will be the name of Zina D.
H. Young. 
	May her future be as rich in good works as
the past has been, and the rich experience
through which she has passed prove to her a
storehouse of wealth, from which she may

[Column 3]

draw at will for the benefit of others. Her
life has been woven of silker skeins, though
often hard twisted, and difficult to soften, and
occasionally a very rough place in the fine spun
thread which she has sought to weave in with
the skill of an accomplished artist, and all has
been so harmoniously blended by light and
shade, that looking back now over the com-
plete web still in the loom, one might wonder
if there were any rough, hard spots, all is so
apparently smooth and shining.	E. B. W.


THOUGHTS.

   It is a safe rule for us all and as wise as it is
safe to never do or say anything except that up
on which we can honestly ask the approval and
blessing of God.   Such a course will preserve
us from many temptations and deliver us from
many snares.  It will also strengthen us in the
path of daily duty.  Furthermore, that upon
which we ask the blessing of God, we should
do with all our might.  Half-heartedness is
not a virtue, especially in serving the Lord;
nor is it a recommendation in our daily con-
tracts with our fellow men.
   We should all have something useful to do,
and we should do it well.   Each of us should
choose an honest calling, and then endeavor to
be perfect in that calling.  It is not wise to
despise small things, for trifles make the sum of
large things and little, by little, step by step,
--seldom by giant strides--we progress towards
the perfection of goodness or retrograde towards
its opposite.  The toilers in the soil, in the 
mine, in the canyon and in the workshop con-
stitute the basis of the wealth of this  world
rich; and the more effectually that labor is
directed, the better for us all.  In this lies the
revelations of God, regarding the concerns of
our every day life.  Promptness, punctuality,
honesty industry and civility are key words to
success in the labors, the duties, and busi-
ness of life.
   Be prompt, thus you will be first in the mar-
ket.  Be punctual, then others will put con-
fidence in your word. Be honest, there is no
excuse to be otherwise; it wears the best and
triumphs in the end. Be economical, wasteful-
ness is one of the great sins of the age.  Be
polite, nothing valuable is lost by civility and
kindness. Be industrious for labor is life, and
withal trust in God and keep His laws.
					ERNESTINE HOLLING.
	Manuscript paper, 11th Ward.


ONE of the wealthy and fashionable women
of Zanesville, Ohio, astonished a large company
of keno gamblers by walking coolly into the
room where they were at play, accompanied by
a policeman. She was in quest of a young
brother who had become possessed of an uncon-
trolable mania for gambling; and she not only
took him away, but secured enough evidence
to convict the proprietors of the place, which
was closed up.

	LUCY STONE says that early in the legisla-
tive session in Maine Senator Dudley moved
to amend the Constitution by striking out the
word "male." He was denied a special com-
mittee, and his bill was not fairly treated.
Then the women of Maine sent in a petition for
school suffrage sixty feet long, with a double
row of names. On this petition there were a
majority and a minority report. A motion to
accept the minority report in favor of the pet-
itioners was carried by one vote. Immediately
a motion was made to indefinitely postpone
the whole question, which was carried by
the majority, at which there was loud ap-
plause." The bold Legislators had put down
the women in a place,where no woman could
speak or vote, and then they applauded them-
selves!—Ex.


156	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00: one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street.  Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY.	—	MARCH 15, 1882.


SOME THINGS FOR REFLECTION.
	The passage of the Edmunds' anti-polygamy
bill is at present the general topic of conversa-
tion. It passed the House by a vote of 199
against 42 on Tuesday, March 14. In what way
the United States government proposes to make
the law successfully practical, a person with the
most fertile imagination would be at a loss to de-
termine. One cannot help seeing for himself
that these plural families can never be separated
from each other without the most dreadful con-
sequences. Is the government of the United
States prepared to shoulder the responsibility of
such proceedings? Are those who voted for the
bill aware that they are bringing into bondage the
flesh and blood of their fellow creatures, born
free and equal with them? It seems impossible!
Are the very men who, by the spilling of so
much precious blood, liberated the negro from
slavery, about to place "in durance vile" white
men and women, and condemn them to ingno-
miny and shame, simply for the practice of reli-
gious principles which they implicitly believe to
be of divine origin?
	And is this condemnation, this punishment,
to be retro-active, extending back to those who
broke no law when they entered into that order
of marriage, since declared unlawful by the Su-
preme Court of the United States? Can this be
done? Can plural marriages be punished as a
crime, that were solemnized previous to the law
of 1862? Who are to be the greatest sufferers in
this conflict, when adverse legislation is sought
to be enforced here? Women and children prin-
cipally, as the proportion of these will be much
greater than that of men? Is it possible that
the wise men of this nation are so lost to the
consideration due men, women and children, that
they could see an innocent, inoffensive people
thus oppressed, thus cruelly wronged, their lives
embittered, their hopes of happiness shattered,
their happy homes desolated, their peaceful Ter-
ritory, now so inviting and prosperous, made the
scene of dire confusion, plunging it, by one
stroke of political power unwisely wielded, into
social and financial ruin.
	Such a momentous question has never at any
time in the history of the nation been brought
before the American Congress, and one cannot
help asking– how is it possible thus to deprive
American citizens of the birthright of freedom,
and disfranchise those whose forefathers valiant-
ly fought for the liberty of the Republic, render-
ing their condition more deplorable than that of
the poorest peasant in foreign lands? Thousands
of this people are as proud of their American
blood as any of the men who sit in the Congress
of the United States.
	For the honor of that august body, the Forty-
seventh Congress, it should be recorded there
were some high-minded, brave, fearless men
who dared to speak the truth in behalf of jus-
tice, even for the "Mormons." Their name


will be held in honorable remembrance while
time endures, by all people who are not grossly
blinded with prejudice.
	It yet remains for the President of the
United States to set his seal upon the Edmunds' 
bill—and after that its practical enforcement
through the five commissioners. The effect of
these changes upon the industrial affairs of the
people will be most disastrous. But there are
forces at work for the Saints not visible to any
human eye. This people are in the hands of that
God whom they have sought to serve, and He
will in His own way and time, work out their de-
liverance from evil of whatever name or nature.


VISIT TO TOOELE.

	By invitation of the Sisters at Tooele, we at-
tended their Conference in company with Sister
E. S. Taylor, leaving this city on Saturday
morning, the 11th inst. We arrived at Tooele
in time to hear the first hymn sung at the open-
ing of the Conference. The morning was mostly
occupied by the reading of reports, although
the President, Mrs. Hunter, and the sisters
from Salt Lake made a few remarks.
	The Conference of the Primary Associations
was held in the afternoon, a good attendance of
the children of Tooele, who answered readily a
chapter of questions from the book entitled
"Questions and Answers," by E. R. S. S.  Pres.
Gowans, of Tooele Stake, stated that Mrs. Re-
becca Williams, the former President of the P.
A. of Tooele Stake, had sent in her resignation,
having moved to another part of the Territory.
The resignation was formally accepted, and on
motion of  Bro. Gowans, Mrs, Sarah Hale, of
Grantsville, was appointed and sustained by vote
of the Conference to fill the vacancy. Mrs. Jane
Bowen was nominated and sustained as Presi-
dent of P. A., Tooele City, also in place of Mrs.
Williams, who had resigned.
	Evening session: Conference Y. L. M. I.
A. Tooele Stake. A very large congregation.
Minutes of previous Conference were read; also
reports. The remainder of the time was occu-
pied in giving instruction to the young people.
	Sunday morning we visited the Sabbath
School, which was very interesting indeed. The
children observed the best of order, and the ex-
ercises were very well rendered. The sisters
from S. L. City talked a little to the children.
	In the afternoon after the Sacrament was ad-
ministered, pursuant to adjournment, the Relief
Society Conference resumed its session, and
Prest. Gowans presented the officers of the Pre-
siding Board of the Relief Society of Tooele
Stake. In consequence of the vacancy occa-
sioned by the death of the First Counselor, Mrs.
Elizabeth Clegg; Mrs. Emily Warburton was
presented for the approval of the Conference;
the motion was unanimously carried. The
speakers were Mesdames E. B. Wells, E. S.
Taylor and Apostle F. M. Lyman. Conference
adjourned for three months.
	In the evening the Conjoint meeting of Y. L.
and Y. M. M. I. A. convened in the meeting
house, a very large assembly. The exercises
were well rendered and very interesting.
	During the meetings the attendance was very
large indeed, Apostle F. M. Lyman, Prest.
Gowan, Bishops and many other brethren being
present, and giving much encouragement to
those laboring in these organizations.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	THE twenty-fifth session of the Legislative
Assembly of Utah closed its session last week.
Much hard work was accomplished by the mem-
bers, and some very good bills were passed and


obtained the signature of the Governor.  All the
bills passed which concerned women specially,
were vetoed by the Governor.
	Council Bill C. F. 26.  To establish and protect
the identity of married women, vetoed. H. F.
69. To protect the maternal rights of married
women, vetoed.  These two bills were Mrs. E.
P. W. Packard's framing and the contents of the
bill are as followes.
	"Be it enacted," &c.
	Section 1.  Henceforth woman shall retain the
same legal existence after marriage as before
marriage, and shall receive the same protection of
her rights as a woman, which her husband does
as a man; and for any unjust usurpation of
her natural cr property rights she shall have
the same right to appeal in her own name
alone, to the courts of law or equity, for redress,
that the husband has.
	Sec. 2.  All laws or portions of laws incon-
sistent with the forgoing are hereby repealed.
Mrs. Packard is from Chicago and has been
here some time in the interest of her bill which
she is anxious should receive the strength and ap-
proval of the Legislature in every State and Ter-
ritory.  Mrs. Packard is a very intelligent lady,
has had a fine education,her voice is pleasing and
she is possessed of a rare gift of language.
	We wish her success in her noble work for the
elevation of woman, and sincerely hope that all
Governors will not refuse to sign a bill for the
legal emancipation and identity of married
women.	History Of the Mormon Battalion, by
Daniel Tyler of Beaver is now ready for sale.
The book contains 376 pages, is printed in good
style on clear paper, large new type, and makes
a very handsome volume for the library or home.
The subject matter is most intensely interest-
ing. The first chapter Introductory is from
the pen of Pres. John Taylor, and is very affect-
ing, relating definitely the scenes and incidents
of the Martyrdom of Joseph and Hyrum, his
own experience when with them in Carthage
jail wounded almost unto death.  It cannot fail
to impress the reader with admiration for the
character of those noble men who suffered so
curelly at the hands of a violent mob.  Then
follows a lengthy article by Gen. Thomas L.
Kane on the Mormons as he found them in 1846,
after the explusion from Nauvoo.  The second
chapter introduces the subject of the Mormon
Battalion and opens with a poem from the pen
of Eliza R. Snow.  The reader will not be dis-
appointed in this book, it is very ably written and
cannot fail to be attractive reading as well as
being truthful in all its details.  Brother Tyler
has been several years collecting and preparing
the matter and has spared neither means or
pains to make it a historical record of the cam-
paign.  He deserves the thanks and patronage
of the public for his industry and perseverance
for he has labored under great difficulties, and
has by indomitable energy at last succeeded in
publishing.  It is a book this people should put
into the hands of their children that they may
know the sufferings, toil, privation and hard-
ship endured by these brave volunteers and their
families.  The book is for sale at the office of the
Juvenile Instructor where it was published,
leather binding $3.00  cloth $2.50  morocco
gilt $4.25.


IN MEMORIAM.

	The death of Mary Ann Ellis Watkins, oc-
cured under very trying circumstances. She died
in child-birth, at St. John's, Arizona, on the 16th,
of January, 1882. It was her first child. Both
mother and infant lived but a very short time
after the parent was delivered of her offspring.


[Column 1]
	The sad event waa not only a severe bereave-
ment to her husband, Elder Hyrum J. Watkins,
but also cast a deep gloom over the neighborhood,
in this city where she was raised. Sister Wat-
kins was widely known and much beloved, and
her early demise is deeply lamented.
	Deceased, a daughter of Elder John and Sister
Mary Ann Ellis, was born in Ogden City, Utah,
March 6th 1857, and was blessed when a babe
according to the order of the Church. She was
baptized July the 5th 1866, July 25th 1875, was
re-baptized. Being born in the Church, she was
a firm believer in all its doctrines as taught by
those who are called of God. She received a
knowledge of the truth of this great work, and
was ever ready to testify to it in the congrega-
tions of the Saints.
	On the 9th day of Sept. 1875, she first spoke in a
public meeting of the Y. L. M. I. A. Her words
were few, but fervent. The were these, "I
feel rejoice in the goodness and mercy of God,
and desire to live so as to gain the reward laid
up for the faithful." She endured faithful to the
end, and with her infant son, "rests from her
labors and her works will follow her." She was
married to Elder H. J. Watkins, April 30, 1879,
in the House of the Lord.
	Sister Watkins was an active member of the
Y. L. M. I. A., a faithful worker, and never
wearied in well-doing she filled several official
positions in the Association, as secretary, coun-
selor to the president, &c., the duties of which
she discharged with honor and to the satisfac-
ion of all concerned.
	Sister Mary Ann has gone behind the veil.
We mourn her loss, but we do not sorrow as
those who have no hope. "Blessed are the dead
who die in the Lord," as she did, for her name
is embalmed in the memory of the righteous,
and will live through all generations to come.
	Her mother is President of the Second Ward
Relief Society, in this City. Her father, Elder
John Ellis, is now on a mission preaching the
Gospel in England.—Com.
	Ogden City, February 15, 1882.

	Resolutions of Respect. On the death of Sis-
ter Sarah J. Segmiller. Adopted at a meeting
of the Y. L. M. I. Association, Feb. 27, 1882.
	Whereas God, in His wisdom, has seen fit to
call from our midst our much loved and worthy
President, and,
	Whereas her labors in our Association
have been faithfully performed, we feel
that some proper recognition of her virtues be
had among us, therefore, be it
	Resolved, that we, as members of the Y. L.
M. I. A. deeply mourn the loss of so valuable
and faithful a co-laborer.
	Resolved, that we emulate the worthy ex-
amples of her life, which was one of purity, up-
rightness, and diligence in the performance of
her duty.
	Resolved, that we condole with each other in
this bereavement, and tender this token of respect
and love to her relatives and friends in this afflic-
tion.
	Resolved, that our banner be draped in mourn-
ing for thirty days, and that we present a copy
of these resolutions to her relatives and publish
the same in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and the
Deseret News, and keep a copy of the same on
our record.

	Died at Hyde Park Cache Co., on the 18, of
Feb. 1882, Sister Cecelia Maria Hansen wife of
Peter Hansen, and daughter of Peter and Maria
Thomson, born April 16, 1856, Lendum, Jutland,
Denmark.
	Sister Cecelia has been a good and faithful wo-

[Column 2]
man, true to every principle of the Gospel. She
was a member of the Relief Society and ever
ready to do good, she leaves many friends who
sincerely mourn her loss and sympathize with
her bereaved husband and family.
								J. E. MOLEN.
	Hyde Park Mar. 3rd, 1882.

	Died of old age, Feb. 6, 1882, at the residence
of Mrs. S. M. Heywood, in this city, Sarah Sy-
monds Very, in her 97th year. She was the
widow of Johnathan Very, of Salem, Mass., and
by him had one child, a daughter, who long
since passed away; but she has two grandchil-
dren living in Boston. Deceased was the daugh-
ter of Sarah and William Symonds, and was
born in Salem, Mass., May 19, 1785. Sister
Very was baptized into the church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints by Elder Erastus
Snow in the Spring of 1842, at Salem, and emi-
grated to Nauvoo the ensuing year; at the time
of the exodus, left Nauvoo in care of Elder J. L.
Heywood. She came to the valley with his
family in 1848, and has ever since resided with
them.
	Sister Very has been for many years unable
to wait upon herself, and Mrs. Heywood and
the children cared for her with all the tender-
ness and devotion it is possible to render to one
we love. She was a woman of great strength of
character and a faithful Saint of God, true to
the principles of the Gospel and firm and stead-
fast in her faith, and has gone to rest in the full
hope of a glorious resurrection. There are many
Eastern people who knew her intimately, and
speak of her with the greatest reverence.
								E. B. W.

	Died, in Salt Lake City, Feb. 22, 1882, Sarah
Ann Needham, wife of Elder John Needham.
	Sister Needham was born Dec. 8, 1825, at New-
ton, Lancashire, England, and emigrated to
Nauvoo with the first company of Saints who
left England. She endured the persecutions,
and made a sacrifice of her home, in common
with the people of God, when the Saints were
driven from Nauvoo. Brother and Sister Need-
ham were married in Nauvoo, the ceremony be-
ing performed by Patriarch Hyrum Smith.
Came to Utah with her husband in 1857, where
she raised a family respected by all. She was
First Counselor to the President of the Relief
Society of the Eighth Ward from its first organ-
ization, and was an active and respected member
of that Society. She was a dutiful wife, a lov-
ing mother, and a faithful Latter day Saint.

TESTIMONIAL

Of respect and esteem to the memory of our be-
loved sister, Sarah Ann Needham.
	Whereas, It has pleased God, our Heavenly
Father, to release our sister from affliction and
suffering, therefore,
	Resolved, That we, the Sisters of the Relief
Society of the 8th Ward, have lost in her a kind
and affectionate sister and true friend, and that
we sincerely sympathize with her bereaved hus-
band, children, and family.
							E. G. BARNEY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


INTERESTING CONFERENCE.
 Semi Annual Relief Society Conference of 
S. L. Stake of Zion held in the 14th, Ward
Assembly Rooms in this City. Friday March,
10th, Mrs. M. I. Horne Presiding.   The morn-
ing was occupied with minutes of previous Con-
ference and reports from the several branches,
and some general instruction from President
Horne.


﻿Afternoon session:  The house was well filled
with sisters, and there were also in attendance
Pres.  A. M. Cannon, his Coun.  J. E.  Taylor,
and Elder Daniel Tyler of Beaver.  The stand
and the organ were draped with white, in honor
of the decease of two most eminent women,
Mrs. E. A. Whitney and Mrs. S, M. Heywood,
and the Relief Society banner was hung over
the stand.  It bears the date of the first organ-
ization in Nauvoo.  The stand and platform
were well filled with officers of the organization
and leading women.
  Sisters M. I. Horne, S. M. Kimball, Zina D.
H. Young, each made brief remarks expressing
their love for the dear departed sisters, and
their appreciation of their pure lives and dili-
gent labors.  Sister Zina also related some in-
cidents of her visit in the East.  Mrs. E.B.
Wells read Resolutions of respect to Mrs. E. A.
Whitney and Mrs. S. M. Heywood.  Mrs. Min-
erva W. Snow, President of Relief Society, St.
George Stake and Mrs. M. J. Atwood President
Relief Society, Summit Stake each made a few
remarks, also Mrs. E. S. Taylor, Mrs. Horne
them introduced to the audience Mrs. E. P. W.
Packard who occupied half an hour in speak-
ing upon a bill to establish and protect the
identity of married women, relating some in-
cidents of her personal experience in confirma-
tion of the necessity of such a law.
  Sister Helen Mar Whitney was nominated to
act as Second Counselor to Sister M. I. Horne
in the Relief Society of this Stake of Zion, in
place of Sister S. M. Heywood deceased.  The
motion was carried unanimous, and the other
officers of the board by vote of the meeting
were sustained.  Sister Whitney was blest and
set apart Pres. A. M. Cannon officiating assisted
by Coun. Joseph E. Taylor and Elder Daniel
Tyler.  Conference  adjourned  for  three
months.  Singing, and Benediction by Pres.
Cannon.
   The Conference of the Primary Associations
of Salt Lake Stake was held in the 14th, Ward
Assembly Rooms,  Saturday  morning, Feb.
11,ult. Mrs. Ellen C.S. Clawson, presiding, the
attendance was very large indeed many having
to stand during the whole time.
 At intervals during the reading of the re-
ports, the children rendered some hymns in a
very creditable manner.  Remarks were made
by Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Mrs. Zina Y. Wil-
liams, Mrs. Louio Pelt, and Mrs; Clawson.
 In the afternoon the Conference of the Y.L.
M. I. A., convened Mrs. Mary A. B. Freeze
presiding.  After the reading of the minutes
and reports, interesting addresses were deliv-
ered by Mesdames Young, Williams, Conrad,
Horne and Freeze, also Miss Mattie Horne.
Officers of Salt Lake Y. L. M. I. A., were sus-
tained and the Conference adjourned for three
months.
							E. B.  W.


BOTH Senators and six of the eleven Repres
entatives of Congress from Massachusetts are
in favor of suffrage for women.

	NINE of the thirteen Indiana Representatives
in Congress are openly pledged to support wo-
man suffrage.

	THE seventy-fifth anniversary of the birth of
the poet Longfellow was very generally and
heartily commemorated on the 27th of Febru-
ary by the schools throughout the country.

	IN London 700 female clerks are employed
at the central telegraph station at St. Martins-
le-Grand, while at the other metropolitan post
and telegraph offices there are 450 more, mak-
ing a total of nearly 1,200 women employed in
the post and telegraph offices of the metropolis
alone, without counting the large number en-
gaged throughout the country.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A CHAT WITH MY MORMON
		FRIENDS

	Ah. Mrs. Wells how' do? I am very glad in-
deed to see you.  Walk in. I was beginning to
feel a little hurt, thinking you did not intend
to accept my invitation to come to spend the
afternoon.  This is--"Mary F"--Happy to
make your acquaintance.  George Q. Cannon?
Happy to meet you sir.  And this-- Ah,
Hannah T. King?  glad to see you, very glad.
Claim you as a sort of old acquaintance.  All
please be seated, and if you've brought your
knitting, ladies, --ah Mrs. Wells has taken out
her pencil, now I'll have to be careful what I
say. You ask why I take a seeming interest
in the Mormon question.  Well, one has but
to look around to see that there is some great
mistake made somewhere in regard to the mar-
riage relation as it exists now.  Mormonism
presents another side to the question.  I am
not ready to accept the side presented by you,
without close examination  of it in all its bear-
ings; but I am willing to examine, and be-
lieve there are many others to follow me, as
soon as I let down the bars of prejudice and
fear of ridicule.  Felix Adler in his lecture in
Cincinnati Jan. 28th said:  "This abandonment
of ancient theories has a foundation some where.  
Among the influences that are sapping old be-
liefs, is, first, Natural Science.  It is the recog-
nition by the masses of the fact of the existence
of inexorable law from countless ages--an un-
broken chain of causation." Now, as that is
true in a religious sense, so is it true socially.
There is an abandonment of ancient theories
and practices, too, socially.  Something is sapping
old beliefs and I say, 'tis well.
	Mr. Cannon, pardon me, but while you are
here I wish to ask, did you say, as the Gazette
reporter alleges that, "no woman can secure ex-
altation in heaven, unless she be united in mar-
riage to a Latter-day Saint of the Mormon
Church, on earth?"
	I could never believe that; really I think if
any man gets to heaven 'twill be through the
instrumentality of women.  But I never like to
talk on any subject if heaven, future rewards
and punishments are to be brought in.  I am
altogether of the earth, earthy.  My religion
is quickly summed up.  Having believed on
Jesus, confessed Him before men and been
baptized, I have the gospel promise of salva-
tion.  I love the purity of Christ's character
and try to imitate it.  My soul worships the
Creator of this beautiful earth, with its thou-
sand wonders, its singing birds, flowers, bright
skies, and stars, and clouds.  Truly, my soul
sayeth "The Heavens declare the glory of God,
the firmament sheweth his handiwork.  Day
unto day uttereth speech, night unto night
sheweth knowledge."  But of future rewards,
and punishments I concern not myself. Right,
is right wrong is wrong!  I try in all things,
small or great, to do right, and leave my case,
in the hands of a just judge;
	Therefore, just as soon as you convince me
that the Mormon Church practices are right,
that moment I yeild all my prejudices and be-
come one among you.
	Did you say, Mrs. Wells, that "plural mar-
riage does exalt women?  That by making the
sacrafice of her own feelings and giving up her
prejudices for the husband she loves, she en-
nobles herself?"  Well, that is true. Every
one is ennobled by sacrificing his or her own
wishes for the good of others.
	Yes, Mary F. It does seem as though it
were right that when a woman, weakened by
disease or child bearing, her mind entirely
taken up by the care of her family, loses all
inclination to be a wife in the full sense of the
word, she should be willing to act nobly, as did
Sarah of old, and allow another to take the
place she is no longer able to fill.
	Not going, are you, Mr. Cannon?  Good-after-
noon.  You were saying, Mrs. Wells, "When
a woman is no longer able to prepare the food
she gives that duty to a servant." When unable
by ill health or the demands society makes
upon her to prepare the clothing, necessary for
the family, she hires another to do it.  In early
days, to do these duties herself was proof of the
love she bore her husband--to neglect them
was inexcusable.  Do women love their hus-
bands and children less in these days?  No; it
is the abandoning of ancient theories and
practices.  Dr. Pierce says in his "People's
Common Sense Medical Adviser, "Since self
preservation is Nature's first law, the desire for
food is a most powerful instinct in all living
animals.  Not inferior to this law is that for
the prepetuation of race, and for this purpose
throughout the animal and vegetable kingdom,
we find the Biblical statement literally illus-
trated, "Male and female created He them."
	Now, no one would be foolish enough to say
that, because a wife did not prepare the food,
herself for her husband, he should go without;
and no husband will compel his wife to pre-
pare the food for him when she is unable to do
so. Nor will he go without.  But his hunger
and his wife's sickness does not privilege him
to go into his neighbor's house and sit down,
uninvited, to eat.  No man would think of do-
ing such a thing.  Custom regulates such
things.  But N. B. He does not abuse his
physical nature by depriving it of needed food.
	Well, you Mormon women are always ready
to give a reason for the faith you hold and I
must acknowledge you have beaten me this
afternoon.  But I've enjoyed your talk and
hope to spend another pleasant hour together
soon.
	Mrs. Martha Coray is dead.  I felt saddened
by the news for had hoped to meet her in her
own home on earth sometime, but will never
have the pleasure.  I believe she was a good
woman and would say:
		Why do we mourn the dead, departed
		From earth, and all the earthly strife,
		Though Death were a sleep eternal,
		'Twere rest from weary cares of Life.
		And when we know that joys immortal
		Are promised those who pass away,
		Death seems the quiet night, preceding
		The glorious morn of Eternal day.
					EMILY SCOTT. (Gentile.)


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND.

	Second Annual report of the Relief Society
of the Liverpool Branch of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints for 1881.
	The year now so near its close, has been
fraught with many important events to our So-
ciety. The experience which we had gained
during the first year of our existence as a society,
we have found very valuable to us, and we are
most happy to have to report, that during the
whole of the past year our Society has been
conducted in the most pleasant and smoothest
manner possible; all has been peaceful, harmoni-
ous, and full of love. The Holy Spirit of God
has been in our midst at all times, and we have
felt the blessed influence of His presence. Our
hearts have been filled with love and gratitude
to our Heavenly Father and we humbly and
gratefully thank Him for his great goodness.
	We had a membership of nine at the beginn-
ing of the year, but four of these have gone to
Zion. But we have filled up their places by
four others. We have held twenty-one meet-
ings during the year, and the attendance of the
members has been very good indeed. We have
been favored on many occasions with visits from
Elder C. W. Stayner, whose loving words and

[Column 2]
wise counsels did much to strengthen us in our
labors. As also we are much indebted to the
kind associations and faithful example of Sister
Stayner from whose lips the sisters have learned
many valuable lessons and received much
strength and encouragement; we realize how
much a faithful sister can do among the Saints
in this country.
	Elder John Donaldson, President of the Liv-
erpool Conference also paid us a visit which
gave us great pleasure his address will long
live in our memories, it has been to us all a
source of very great regret, that his labors away
from the city have prevented his repeating his
visit. Elder Scot Anderson the Branch Presi-
dent was frequently present at our meetings,
and furnished us with valuable information,
and gave us all the encouragement in his power.
The teachers reported 134 visits paid during
the year. And in listening to the reports from
time to time, we deeply feel that we have been
as instruments in the hands of God in assisting
to carry on His work and accomplish His pur-
poses. However fully or imperfectlly we may
have labored, all we have done has not been in
our own name or strength but in firm reliance
upon Him with whom we confidently leave the
result. We commenced the year with a bal-
ance on hand 3 9; during the year we nave re-
ceived 4-9-2; making a total of £1-12-11.
	It seemes marvelous how much good we have
been able to accomplish even with this small
sum every pressing need has been relieved
and we have 7s 6d in the treasury. In conclu-
sion we pray our Eternal Father to continue
His blessings to us and our Society and enable
us with full purpose of heart and firm reliance
upon Him at all times to continue to labor
faithfully in any part of His Vineyard where
our lot may be cast.
				E. H. JOHNSON, President.
				M. J. Anderson, Secretary.

WASATCH.

	The Relief Society Conference of this Stake
was held in the Heber City Hall, Feb. 10, 1882.
Commencing at half past 10, o'clock A. M.
President Emma Brown, presiding. Present
on the stand were Bro. T. H. Giles; Bishop
Murdock, and Patriarch Hicken. After the
usual opening exercises, minutes of the previous
Conference were read and accepted. Pres.
Brown made some intrductory remarks felt
pleased to see so many of the sisters present.
The following wards were then represented.
East Heber by Mrs. Rasband, West Heber by
Mrs. Foreman, Midway by Mrs. Gurney, Cen-
ter by Mrs. Richardson, Charleston by Mrs.
Murdock, Wallsburg by Mrs. Clifton. The
reports were very satisfactory showing a desire
to improve and to carry out the counsel of
those placed over them. The Primaries were
then represented. Wallsburg by Jennie
Allred, Center by Mrs. Harvey, Heber City by
Mrs. Lee. The sisters then occupied the time
giving good counsel, said mothers should set a
good example before their daughters, they
should attend their meetings and be always
ready to respond to every call. Meeting ad-
journed until 2 o'clock P. M. Benediction by
Bro. Rasband.
	Afternoon session: Singing, prayer by Bro.
John Duke, verbal reports were then given by
the Pres. of the Y. L. M. I. A. They were
given in a very pleasing and instructive man-
ner. Sister Duke then spoke a short time, she
bore a faithful testimony that Joseph Smith
was a Prophet of God and that the Gospel was
revealed to him, and that we can by obedience
to all its laws and ordinances be brought back
into the presence of our Father. Said the
great men of the nation are determined to over-
throw this people. We are in the hands of the
Lord and so are they; if we are true to our re-
ligion they cannot harm us.


Bro. Hicken; said, "The Lord will take care
of His Saints and it is our business to be saints
in deed and truth, and no harm will come to
his people; urged the sisters to be faithful.
Blessed the Relief Societies with the spirit of
union and peace to comfort the sick and to
labor in love.  Bro. Rasband also gave good
counsel said the Relief Societies were a great
help to the Bishops.  Sister Brown made a few
closing remarks felt happy to have the privil-
ege of assembling with the sisters at our Con-
ference, we will be blessed if we are faithful in
all our duties.  Conference adjourned until
May 1882.  Benediction by John Jordan.
				MARY BRONSON, Sec'y.
				AVIS. M. BRONSON, Asst.

	A meeting of the First Ward Primary As-
sociation of Springville was held February 18,
1882, and had a surprise dinner for the little
folks.  The tables were well filled with delica-
cies.  Seventy-five persons partook of the re-
past, nearly all of whom were children belong-
ing to the Association.  After dinner we had
a chapter from the book "Bible Questions,"
and songs, recitations and our manuscript paper.
	The Bishop, Bro. Kelsey, Bro. Whitehead
and Sister Harrison addressed the children;
said they were well pleased with all they had
seen and heard.  The Bishop said he felt as if
he was in heaven, among the dear little ones.
Sister Bringhurst was present, but business
called her away.  Brother Coray, from Provo,
was also present.
	Benediction by Jesse Groesbeck, son of N.
W. Groesbeck,who is now on a mission to
New Zealand.
	The offiicers of the Association are:  Mary
Crandall, President; Elizabeth Whiting and
Lebina Alleman, Counselors; Melissa Johnson,
Secretary.

			MARRIOTTS.
	The Primary Association convened at the
schoolhouse Jan. 24, 1882, at 11 a.m.  Opened
with the usual exercises.  There were present
visitors from Lynn and Slaterville, also Sis-
ters Stanford and Rudd, from Ogden City, who
are well known to be faithful laborers in the
interests of the P.A, in Weber Co.  The Con-
ference was a very interesting one, the little
ones speaking their pieces and singing their
songs in a very creditable manner.  After the
exercises were over, the sisters from Ogden
addressed the children in a very appropriate
manner, encouraging them to persevere and
listen, and to put in practice the instructions
they received, and they would yet obtain re-
nown in the Kingdom of God; said there had
been something good in all the pieces that had
been spoken, and they felt to bless the chil-
dren, for they felt interested in their welfare.
	Bishop Ritchie then spoke briefly to them;
thought they had done well, and wanted them
to continue to improve and not despair if at
first they did not succeed.  Related an anec-
dote of a little boy in a P. A. Conference; in
speaking his piece, a portion of it went from
his mind; the children commenced to laugh,
but he stood undaunted, and it came back to
him again, and he went through nobly.  Told
them never to laugh if one broke down, but to
help one another and be good, for they were to
grow up to bear off the kingdom.  Others
spoke of the improvement they were making.
The children then sang, "I'll be a little Mor-
mon."  The Conference was adjourned for
three months.  Benediction by Oscar Madsen.
	There were sixty presents given, and the
children were dismissed, while the visitors re-
paired to the house of the President, Sister E.
Marriott, where a sumptuous repast was in
waiting, and after partaking freely of the luxu-
ries the table afforded, and spending a shorttime in agreeable and social conversation, all
dispersed well satified with a day well spent.
		ELLEN M. MARRIOTT, Ass't Sec'y.

			HARRISVILLE.
	Minutes (taken by one of the girls of the
Primary Association) of a pic-nic party held in
the West School House Harrisville Weber Co,
Jan. 28 1882, commencing at 10 o'clock A. M.
party called to order by President Harriett
Daybell, prayer by W. C. Rawson, (First Coun-
selor to the Bishop) then a song by four little
girls "Go and seek the little wanderers" then
fifteen recitations and four songs; a few games
then candy was passed around to the children.
Recess for half an hour after which we had
a song by a little girl and then a dialogue
by four boys and five girls;  'The Young
Missionary" from the Juvenile Instructer,
then 17 recitations and seven songs by
boys and girls; then a song from little Jesse
Brown (not yet 3 years old) after which we had
a good scramble on the floor after candy; order
again restored, a song was sung by all the Pri-
mary "Let us all be good and kind" we had a
few more games and then some very good in-
structions from W.C. Rawson, Robert Wilson
and Thomas White.  Our exercises closed with
Benediction by Elder Thomas Brown. Officers:
Harriett Daybell, President; Mary A. Brown,
and Dorathy M. Larkens Counselors; Har-
riett L. Randall Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 159


[Column 1]
SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	There are on doubt hundreds still living who
heard the Prophet relate the circumstance men-
tioned in my mother's letter of one of the old
Nephites visiting England, Ireland and Scot-
land, and they can bear their testimony to the
fulfilment of Joseph's predictions on that day,
as well as all the rest up to the present time.
	In another of my mother's letters, speaking
of the signs of the last days which were seen in
various parts of the world she mentions the
following incident, which was seen by different
parties in Nauvoo, and by my request brother
Joseph Kingsbury, a man widely known and
respected for his truth and honesty, wrote the
following account which I here give verbatim.
	"In the Spring of 1840 about eight o'clock in
the morning Mrs. Rhoda Whitney Sister-in-law
to Bishop N. K. Whitney and her brother John
Ballard, my wife Caroline Whitney and myself
were crossing the Mississippi river from Mont
rose to Nauvoo when we saw the following
strange spectacle.
	When we had got about one third of the way
across the river we saw a couple of men about
sixty rods down the stream riding on horse
back on the top of the water. They were go-
ing diagonally down the river in the direction
of Joseph Smith's residence.
	We stopped our skiff and watched these men
until they reached the shore. Just as they ar-
rived at the shore the horses suddenly disap-
peared and the strangers remained on the shore,
the horses trotted along on the top of the water
just as they would have done had they been
trotting through a very shallow stream, gently
splashing the water hither and thither. We
resumed our rowing but our attention was con-
stantly directed towards them as they stood on
the shore until our view was obstructed by a
bend in the river.
					Jos. C. KINGSBURY.
	Near this time some of the worldlings a few
miles below Nauvoo were reported to have seen
upon the river two horses, one black and the
other pale. They with their riders landed in
Missouri.
	The Latter-day Saints had reason to believe

[Column 2]
that great events were near at hand but they
could hardly realize the extent of them. The
Church being then in its infancy they under
stood but very little concerning the plans and
purposes of the Almighty. They thought they
had sacrificed and suffered enough from the
scourgings and oppression of their enemies in
Ohio and Missouri and that they would soon be
gathered back to their homes from which they
had been so cruelly driven. It had not been
revealed to them how great and marvelous a
work the Saints of God were destined to accom-
plish before being prepared to go back to enjoy
their possessions where they were to build up
the centre stake of Zion, which is in Jackson
County, Missouri.
	Most of the inhabitants of that state were
filled with jealousy and hatred which increased
as our prosperity and power increased. Not
long after we settled in Commerce, four brethren
were carried by them into Missouri. One was
a brother Brown, whom they hung until nearly
dead, to force a confession from him, but he
made his escape by leaving his clothes and
wandering three days without food. He
brought word that they had whipped two or
the brethren—one of them nearly to death
when he fainted. They stopped whipping him
until he revived a little, and then they com-
menced whipping him again; but as no confes-
sion could be forced from them, they were com-
mitted to jail for trial.
	Brother James Allred was taken by them
and after having been tied to a tree and threat-
ened for some time, he was told that his grey
hairs would clear him and they set him at
liberty.
	Governer Carlin said he would take the mat-
ter into his hands and would go to the extent
of the law, if it caused a collision of the two
states.
	The following interesting items I copy from
my mother's letter to father, dated Sep. 6th,
1840.
	She says: "The brethren are still moving
in here very fast, several wealthy families ar-
rived last week from Philidelphia. I hope
they will help to build up the place. It is so
sickly here it is almost discouraging, there has
been rising of fifty deaths here within a few
weeks past, the sickness is mostly among those
who have come in this season. Mother Beamen
was buried one week ago to-day. She died of the
cholera morbus—was sick but a few days—
"Seymour Brunson is also dead, everything was
done to save him that could be done, but the
Lord had need of him. A short time before he
died he told Joseph not to hold him any longer
"for" said he, "I have seen David Patten and
he wants me, and the Lord wants me, and I
want to go." They then gave him up; at one
time as Joseph entered the room, he told him
that there was a light encircled him above the
brightness of the Sun—he exclaimed. The
room is full of angels they have come to waft
my spirit home." He then bade his family
and friends farewell and sweetly fell asleep in
Jesus."
	"He requested Joseph to preach his funeral
sermon, which he did. It was attended by
thousands of people. He was buried under
arms. The procession that marched to his
grave was judged to be a mile long. A more
solemn sight I never witnessed, and yet the
day was joyful, because of the light and glory
that Joseph set forth. I can truly say my soul
was lifted up.
	"I enjoy myself as well as I can deprived of
your society. My health is much better than
it was the forepart of the summer. Helen was
attacked very violently with chills last week,
but through the goodness of God she is again
restored. William works at Dr. Williams';
they keep tavern in the house where Brother
Granger lived; have all been sick more or less
all summer. William has also been attacked


once or twice with chills since he lived there.
The Doctor gave him something that broke the
chills. They are very careful of him, and he
has a horse to ride wherever he goes. Brother
Joseph Young volunteered to get up a contri-
bution to get me a cow, and he has bought me
a good one, for which I feel very thankful.
Brother Charles Hubbard gave me a pig last
spring, which I think if fed well will make our
meat for winter. I have plenty of vegetables
and garden sauce, so I shall not have much to
buy but bread. I hope I will not have to call
on the Bishop again while you are gone. I
have no fears about getting along. The Lord
is multiplying my friends daily; yea, I have
more blessings than I am worthy of; I think it
is because I have a worthy husband. I think
much of our English sisters.	*	*	*	I am
glad that Brother Brigham has sent some
assistance to his family, for they are needy
enough. Their house could hardly be called
a shelter; they will soon have it fixed now.
	Elizabeth and Vilate are both sick with
chills and fever; the rest of the families of the
Twelve are well as far as I know. I called on
Sister Young day before yesterday, and carried
a letter that I had just taken from the office;
it was from Brigham, written the last of June.
They were rejoiced to hear from him again.
They were in good spirits, and when they get
their house done they will be quite comfort-
able.
	Our little David is over one year old. I
can brag no more of his little plump body and
rosy cheeks, though his eyes are as black and
sparkling as ever. He has cut four teeth,
which has made him pretty sick; but I pray
the Lord that he may live that you may see
him again.	*	*	* The children join me in
love to their dear father.
	"I had anticipated seeing you this Fall, but
if it is the Lord's will for you to stay longer,
His will and not mine be done. President
Smith says I must always remember him to
you."
	I have sketched these ew incidents to show
how the Lord will bless and provide for those
who are willing to serve Him; who can say like
the Psalmist, "Blessed is the people that know
the joyful sound, they shall walk, O Lord, in
the light of thy countenance. For the Lord
is our defence; and the Holy One of Israel is
our King."

To be continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SOME FACTS THAT I KNOW.

		IN ANSWER TO MRS. SCOTT.

	If we would be the children of Abraham,
then ought we not to do the works of Abra-
ham?  I believe if it was right in the sight of 
God, in the early ages of the world, for men
to have more than one wife, it is right to-day;
the God we serve is an unchangeable One.
	I ask, who in these last days would ever
have thought of such a thing as a man, under
 he name of religion, having more than one
wife, had not the Lord revealed it to him?
	Now, I have lived for many years in the
order of plural marriage, and to-day I am
thankful to my Father in Heaven that He 
ever gave me a true understanding of that
principle; it has many more advantages than
disadvantages. If we will lay aside our selfish 
feelings, and seek for the Spirit of God to
guide us, it is a light to our path all the day
long.  I would not change my position with
any woman of the world, for I could do so if I 
chose; but I would not forfeit my right to that
marriage relation with my husband for all the
treasures earth can give, for they vanish with
time, and we Mormon women are living for
eternity.  I can say truly that I am happy 
and free in my feelings.  I respect the wives


and children of my husband as much as it is
possible to do.  If jealous feelings arise, which
they will sometimes, we try to overcome them,
instead of yielding to temptation; and our
Heavenly Father helps us with the comforting
influences of His Holy Spirit, and shows us
our duties as wives and mothers, and we try to
do unto others as we would like to have them
do unto us.  We are surrounded with all the
necessary comforts of life, and comfortable
homes; we never have occasion to think that
our husbands are in bad company, or that they
are in company that will bring shame and dis-
grace upon themselves or their families. Then
I ask, what need has the outside world to trou-
ble about us?  We do not need their sympathy
nor their help;  if they will look after their
own welfare, we will look after ours, and we
know the Lord will help us if we will do His 
will and keep His commandments--and plu-
rality of wives is one of them.
	And who is the being that would deprive
me of that liberty of conscience, which my
Father in Heaven has given unto me, and unto
hundreds of my Mormon sisters.  If we would
go hand in hand with the wicked and unrigh-
teous, they would like our society; but we will
not, because we do not want to do so. We
wish to raise our sons and daughters honorable
men and women in the sight of God.  I wish
those honest-hearted ladies who think our lot
is so hard had their freedom to the extent that
we have:  they would not think that we
needed any pity.  There are more of the world
that are against us than there are for us; if
the world has not learned this one fact, it is
time they were beginning to learn it.  We will
not foster in our hearts the mammon of un-
righteousness.  The wicked may rage, and the
people may imagine vain things against us, but
our trust is in the Lord of Hosts.
					SARAH B. LAYTON. 
	Kaysville.


AT the regular monthly meeting of the Wo-
man's Suffrage Association of Missouri, at Pick-
wick Theatre, St. Louis, Rabbi Sonneschien
spoke earnestly in favor of the retention of the
franchise by the women of Utah.
	AN unsuccessful attempt was made upon the
life of Queen Victoria on Thursday March 2nd,
by a pistol fired at her as she was descending
from a train at Windsor station near Windsor
Castle.  This is the seventh time she has nar-
rowly escaped assassination.
	CHARLES DICKENS, JR, son of the great
novelist, is unromantic and practical enough to
devote himself to the more lucrative forms of
publishing, such as guide-books.  He has just 
issued the "Continental A B C Railway Guide"
for the use of English and American travelers.
	IN the House the Speaker announced a select
committee on woman suffrage as follows, Camp,
Shermin, Stone, Hepburn, Springer, Vance,
Muldron and Shackleford.  The motion was
previously carried in the House the votes stand-
ing 113 to 85.
	THE discovery of silk is attributed to one of
the wives of the emperor of China, Hoang-ti,
who resigned about two thousand years before
the Christian era; and since that time a special
spot has been allotted in the gardens of the
Chinese royal palace to the cultivation of the
mulberry tree and to the keeping of silkworms.


AT TEASDEL'S
		SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets Ladies’ and Children’s Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED
				S. P. TEASDEL

		DR. A. B. DUNFORD
			DENTIST.
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE: — MAIN ST OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
			P. O. X, 5

			Z. C. M. I.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

				THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
		BEST SELECTED STOCK of
		BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
	Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
			Children's Fine Shoes,
	obeln the West. 	Your orders are Solicited
			GEO. DUNFORD

		FOR SALE
	Home-Made SILK,
			AT
CUTLER'S COMMISION STORE.

		A LARGE STOCK
   Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,		Brown Yarns,		Cotton Batting,
Flannels,		White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
			MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

		F. AUERBACH & BRO.
				HAVE
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 &126
		CALL AND EXAMINE
		Spring and Summer Goods.

				DAVID JAMES,
	TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from 
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

				   H. DINWOODEY
		WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
					FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
						AND
				BABY CARRIAGES
			75, 77, &79, First South Street,
				SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 10			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1882.		No. 21


﻿AN APRIL IDYL.

	BY L. M. HEWLINGS.

Since Adam and Eve first wended their way,
From beautiful Eden, so "they say,"
Strange things will happen on an April day,
All sorts of pranks she is sure to play.
Dame nature is busy, stirring about,
Bringing glad beauty from dark things out,
And cleaning her house from ceiling to floor
Spreading new carpets from shore to shore;

In curious corners and cosy nooks,
She plants her statues, places her books;
Vast troops of servants; she calls to their work,
None can escape her, none dare shirk,
Winter's traces she is [-]ain to repair,
Weaving new garments for those left baare;
How charming she looks in her tucked-up sleeves,
Actively turning over the leaves.

Replacing the old ones so brown and s[-]re,
With fresh and beautiful, shining clear.
And out of the dark brown withering sod,
With a touch of her divining rod,
She brings forth gay colors, and rich perfumes,
Art never dreamed of, with all her looms;
And then she has orchestra, placed around,
There's scarcely a grove, but they are found,

Melodious singing!  both sweet and clear,
Room too fro all, who will go and hear;
Just the grandest concerts!  free as the air,
And no dress circles, or charges there!
Sumptuous banquets both rich and rare,
Her ready hand-maidens oft prepare,
There's no time for them to loiter in bed,
With hosts of open mouths to be fed!

Nightly fountains playing all over the world
Sunbeams to scatter, banners unfurl,
Vast chambers to drape with the glorious blue!
Staunch temperance movement, through and through,
There's no end of flocks, swarms, droves and herds,
April calls forth with merely a word,
Bashful maiden, March let out of school,
None dare call her but one day, a fool!
Strange pranks she plays on that day I am told,
Many are bought, but more have been sold.
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
But once on a time, while making a raid,
'Twixt tears and smiles an off'ring she laid;
Unclothed and nameless, mysterious elf,
Winning capricious as April herself,
Sweet love cared for the waif, cherished and blessed,
Nourished the gift with tender caress;
And brought out its name, from radiant light,
Clear as the morning star sparklingly bright,
Since then in making her annual round,
Whether with cmiles, or in cold chilly frowns,
Here, she is greeted, and feted the same,
As tho' fool, were ne'er attached to her name.


WATCH AND PRAY.

	"He that thinketh he standeth let him take heed
lest he fall." 
	The above Scriptural quotation is as applica-
ble to us in this day as it was to those who
lived in the day when it was spoken.  It was
given as a warning to the Saints, that they
might realize how liable humanity is to fall
from grace, and the necessity of calling upon 
God in mighty prayer, and fasting if need be, 
to preserve them in that straight and narrow
path which leads to life everlasting, for indeed
"straight is the gate and narrow is the way
that leadeth to the lives, and few there be that
find it; because wide is the gate and broad is
the road that leadeth to destruction, and many
there be who go in thereat."  The choice is
before us, my sisters; which road will we
choose?  
	I say, we who assemble together to worship
God are determined to walk the narrow way;
but we cannot do this without a struggle. We
must battle with the tempter, and our spirits
must wage a warfare with the evils of the flesh, 
until we have gained the mastery over all the
sins which flesh is heir to, which are many.
And we can never feel secure unless we know
we are environed round about, and also within, 
by the Spirit of God; for in that alone is saftey. 
We are apt to become careless, forget ourselves,
and say or do something that will grieve the
Holy Spirit from us; then we are left to our-
selves, subject to the buffetings of Satan--and
he does buffet us severely sometimes.  The
Lord suffers him to do this, so that we may
know how to appreciate His sweet, peaceful
Spirit when we are permitted once more to
enjoy it.
	But we must be very humble and prayerful
in order to secure that Spirit, for it is one of
the blessings that does not descend, like rain, 
on the just and unjust.  It is only those who
have truly repented of all their sins, and are
striving diligently to purify themselves from
all evil, who are entitled to that peace which
can only be enjoyed through a perfect submis-
sion of their will to the will of God.  We can
put no confidence in our own strength or abil-
ity to resist evil and temptation, for without
Divine aid we are like a reed in the wind, 
bending and quivering before ever blast of
the tempest; are sometimes in great danger of
being broken and shattered to pieces.  But oh, 
how strong are we when keeping the command-
ments of God.  In His strength, we can bid
defiance to the armies of Satan, for we then
are impervious to every shaft that may be sent
by the enemy of righteousness; they will re-
bound from us, leaving us pure and unscathed,
and with greater power to resist again.  But
we must be wary and continually on the watch-
tower, spying out all the movements of the
enemy; for if we lay off our armor and go to
sleep, even for a moment, he may and probably
will attack us in an unexpected quarter, which
we, perchance, thought was well fortified; then
we will be compelled to rally all our strongest
forces, fight and struggle, calling upon God--
who might not be so swift to hear as He would
were we blameless--for help to rout the ene-
my when if we had kept a faithful guard
round about, all that sorrow and perplexity
might have been spared us, and that energy
have been reserved for a better, nobler pur-
pose.  
	We should be warned by the example of the
many mighty ones who have fallen, after hav-
ing labored for years in the service of God. 
There have been many instances in our own
day, as well as anciently.  Men who have had
the heavens opened to them, beheld the heav-
enly beings and the glory awaiting the righ-
teous, they have listened to the whisperings of
the adversary, and have been overcome by his
power.  The mighty prophet, David, a man
after God's own heart, who walked blameless
before Him for many years, at last yielded to 
the tempter, and committed two of the great-
est crimes known to humanity, for which he
now lies in hell, and cannot be delivered until
the justice of God is satisfied, even until he has
paid the uttermost farthing.  He must have
neglected to call upon his Father in heaven, 
and became careless pertaining to righteous-
ness, or Satan never could have gained such
power over him.  Man cannot fall from a state
of purity and holiness to a state of corruption
and wickedness in an hour, nor a day; the des-
cent must be  gradual, as was the ascent. Still
we know that when once begun the descent is
very rapid, adn it takes but a short time to
span the distance between happiness and
misery. 
	"Angels have fallen!"  Be this thy mon-
itor, to check the first faint glow of confidence
in human wisdom and in human strength.
	O my sisters, when we consider these things
should we not tremble and draw nearer to God, 
pleading with all the strength of our beings
that He will preserve us by his mighty power, 
from taking the first false step.  But if, per-
chance, we should; in an unguarded moment, 
depart from serving Him fully, let us turn
from our error, and strive with humility, with
fasting and prayer, to be re-established once
more in his favor; for He is merciful, and will
listen to our first repentant cry.  But oh, let
us be careful and not trespass too far upon his
mercy, lest his Spirit ahould become so injured
that it will cease to strive with us, when awful
indeed would be our state.  That fate will
never be ours, if we attend faithfully to our
prayers and meetings; in them is perfect saftey. 
Satan well knows this, hence the reason he so
often tempts us to neglect these duties.  We
can always be sure by what spirit we are
prompted, for all that enticeth to do good is of
God, so says the Prophet Alma, in the Book of
Mormon.  The Good Spirit will ever prompt
us to be prayerful, to attend all our meetings, 
where we can receive strength and encourage-
ment to live the lives of Saints, to prepare
ourselves to meet the great events which are
near at our doors, and at last be worthy of a 
crown among the good and noble of all ages. 
							MARY A. F. 
	Y. L. M. I. A. 11th Ward.


BISHOP'S BIRTHDAY
	On Thursday evening March the 9th,a social
pic-nic party convened in the Social Hall un-
der the auspices of the Relief Society of this
place, Sage Jones President, to commerate
the fiftieth birthday of our Bishop, Christopher
J. Arthur. At about 5 o’clock prayer was
offered by our Patriarch Henry Lunt, and a
sumptuous repast was partaken off; after which
the time was pleasantly spent in dancing inter-
spersed with sentimental songs.
	President E. W. Lunt in behalf of the mem-
bers of the Relief Society with a few appropri-
ate remarks, presented the Bishop with a
beautiful Album, also read a poem composed
for the occasion by Elder C. Cox. The Bishop
responded by a short speech expressive of his
gratitude for the good feeling manifested to-
ward him, after which our Ex-Bishop H.
Lunt, also made some very interesting remarks. 
Dancing was resumed till eleven o’clock.
	Ever praying for the success and prosperity
of the EXPONENT.
					ELLEN W. LUNT.
	Cedar City, Iron Co. Utah.


SPECIAL Committee of the Legislatures in
several of she States have given opportunities
to the friends of Woman Suffrage, to speak in
behalf of that subject.


WOMAN'S	EXPONENT.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO
BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
CONTINUED.

	The anxiety expressed in my parents' letters
concerning their children's going to school,
brings up a subject much harped upon by out-
siders, who have always declared that "Mor-
mons" were opposed to education. This of
course has no foundation, except in their own
disordered brain, which is fed by the distorted
tales of people who have no higher ambition
than to invent and magnify falsehoods against
the latter-day Saints. Thousands can testify
that wherever our lot has been cast, almost the
first building put up has been the school house.
In the little town of Far West the Saints had
a large and commodious one, far superior to
the ones built by the Gentiles in my native
town, and in Kirtland, Ohio, where I was
taught my earliest lessons. The first thing my
parents thought of wherever we stopped was to
send us to school. While at Winter Quarters 
in the Omaha nation, we had one taught be
Sister Emmeline Whitney, who is now Emme-
line Wells, editor of the EXPONENT.  *     *
	During my school days we were moving
about from place to place, and being subjectd
to cinstant interruptions, it made out early
studies less salutary. It was no easy matter
for a child to all at once settle down to dry
books; and schools and books were not then
what they are now, for little children had to
study out of the same that the elder ones did;
and when we consider the thousand and one
adverse circumstances with which we as a peo-
ple have had to contend for so many years to
be able to retain even an existence upon the
earth, we feel satisfied that we are deserving of
the praise and eulogies of our nation, which
 ant other community would have received; but
instead of our just dues;we have been subjected
to  the impositions of a set of lawless land-
sharks, who are too lazy to work, and therefore
wish to rob the "Mormons," although they
know them to be an honest and industrious
people out of their hard earnings, and the
meanness to which they have stooped to accom-
plish this would make even Satan blush.
	If the outside world wished to inform them-
selves of the truth they could do so, if they
would put aside their prejudice when they visit
our beautiful cities and homes, they could
learn the truth concerning us and our faith and
practices; and if they were honest they would
never again accuse us of being a low, ignorant
or benighted people.
	If the Mormon emigration had consisted of
the wretchedly deformed and idiotic beings
which they have been represented, there must
be a charm, or something very peculiar in our
religion and organizations to have accomplished
so great and wonderful a transfiguration; for
we have seen nothing to warrant such stuff.
But among those who are gathered here are
some of the brightest and most skilled mechan-
ics and workmen-- if they were not, how could
we have managed to have these fine houses
built and such beautiful farms and cities in
these mountains, independent of our enlight-
ened Christian neighbors?
	The following is true and quite apropos to
the subject:
	"Some suppose that every learned man is an
educated man; no such thing; that man is
educated who knows himself, and takes accu-
rate common-sense views of men and things
around him. Some very learned men are the
greatest fools in the world; the reason is-- they
are not educated men. Learning is only the
means, not the end; its value consists in giving
the means of acquiring that, the use of which,
properly managed, gives tone or direction to
the mind.”
 If not among the most wealthy and learned
of the earth, we have ar least our share of in-
tellect and talents, of which the world can not
rob us; and the wonderful experience of this
people has served to develop and bring them
into use. We all know that the most unprom-
ising have often, by patient study and perse-
verance, become the brightest; and we also
know that what has been accomplished in these
mountains no other people, with all their
boasted wisdom and learning, ever dreamed of
doing until the "Mormons" had shown them how.
Our enemies are well aware of these facts, and
the-only way of hiding them from the world is
to continue throwing dust in theireyes.
To be continued.


QUESTIONS ANSWERED. 
As questions have been asked for us to an- 
swer with all plainness and truthfulness, I for
one, like Paul, take pleasure in answering to
the truth. We are not of the world; if we
were the world would love us; but we are hated
for the Gospel’s sake. Now, we believe in rev-
elation, which the world deny. God has said
unto us He will restore all things as at the be-
ginning. He gave commandment then to mul-
tiply and replenish the earth; He has said in
this age, “Raise up unto me a righteous seed;
but first, enter into my covenant, which is the
covenant of marriage”—which ceremony only
can be performed by His servants holding the
Melchizedek Priesthood, which was taken from
the earth when those who held it were slain.
They held the keys to administer in sacred
things. John the Revelator, being banished
on the Isle of Patmos, saw what would take
place in our day, when the Everlasting Gospel
would be preached to every nation, tongue, and
people, “Saying, give glory to God, for the
hour of his judgment has come.”
Now, it behooves all people to repent of
their sins, and receive the Gospel and be saved,
for the Scripture says, “He that believeth and
is baptized shall be saved; he that believeth
not shall be damned.” (St, Mark, xv, 16.)
" Now, this same John has come and commit-
ted this Priesthood to men on the earth, to ad-
minister again in sacred ordinances. The
angel came with the Everlasting Gospel, hav-
ing all the gifts and blessing accruing there-
unto. I can bear witness to these things; I
have heard the gift of tongues, the interpreta-
tion given, have seen the sick restored to health
by the gift of healing, the evil spirit cast out
by prayer and the gift of faith, and I do know
for myself that these things are true, for they
have been shown to me by the Holy Spirit.
We are told to read the Scriptures, and learn
these things for ourselves. I had a testimony
before I ever heard a Latter-day Saint preach
that the same Gospel that the Apostles taught
would be restored to the earth again. I found
that I was quite familiar with Bible doctrine,
and by the power of the priesthood I have
been enabled to understand more fully. I
was no stranger to that which had been taught
me in the spirit world before I took this mortal
body. Now I expect to obtain an immortal one,
if I am faithful to the end.
My sisters, we who have entered into this
holy order of marriage see eye to eye as I do, 
for the Lord says, “Except ye are one ye are
not mine.” What I have written my sisters
in the faith, believe as I do. Therefore, what
I have set forth is the mind of all. And in
no principle of the Gospel do we differ, one
person in the Church can represent the prin-
ciples of the whole body. With the world this
is called one-man power, but with us we call it
unity of faith. To us the angel has brought
glad tidings of great joy, which shall be to all
people Heavenly Father, let us be in posses-
sion of this thy heavenly message, which is the
greatest boon to mortals! It giveth peace  of


mind that the world knoweth not of. Man
can only take liberty of conscience, our rights
as fellow citizens; we are still the citizens of
God’s Kingdom, and our thoughts are as free
as the morning sun that shines in its glory.
	Mary Ann M. Pratt. 
March 16,1882.


CORRESPONDENCE.

MESA CITY, MARICOPA CO. ARIZONA,
					March 16th, 1882.
DEAR AUNT EM:
	We are having delightful weather here at
present although the past winter has been very
cold for this climate. Father has just finished
a nice new house in which he gave a birthday
dinner. He was 60 years of age the 22nd, of
Feb. There were eleven children and eleven
grandchildren present, beside invited guests at
dinner. In the evening quite an assemblage of
friends came in and singing and dancing were
indulged in till the “wee sma hours” when
lunch was served, and all retired after wishing
the host many happy returned the day. We
certainly have cause for gratitude to the kind
Father of us all, for the blessing of health
which attend us as a family; eighteen out of
twenty children are living, and nineteen of
twenty grandchildren all hearty and healthy,
not a single invalid or cripple in the family.
All here except Ashbel (who is in Chicago
studying medicine) and Ella and Emma the
twins; the latter and family write if success
crowns their efforts they will be with us next
fall. The Relief Society of Mesa held their
conference on the eleventh of this month.
					FRANCELLE P. ROBSON


HOW TO INTRODUCE PEOPLE.

	"I do dislike to introduce people to each
other," said Eva to me one day last week.
	"Why, pray?" I asked. "It seems to me a
very simple thing."
	"Well, when I have it to do, I stammer and
blush, and feel so awkward, I never know who
should be mentioned first, and I wish myself
out of the room."
	"I think I can make it plain to you," I said.
"You invite Mabel Tompkins to spend an
afternoon with you. She has never been at
your home before, and your mother has never
met her. When you enter the sitting-room, all
you have to do is to say, 'Mother, this is my
friend Mabel; Mabel, my mother.' If you
wish to be more elaborate, you may say to your
Aunt Lucy, "Aunt Lucy, permit me to present
Miss Mabel Tompkins; Miss Tompkins, Mrs.
Templeton.' But while you introduce Mabel
to your father, or the minister, or an elderly
gentleman, naming the most distinguished per-
sonage first, you present your brother, his
chum and your cousin Fred to the lady, nam-
ing her first. Fix it in your mind that among
persons of equal station the younger are intro-
duced to the older, and that inferiors in age,
position, or influence are presented to superiors.
Be very cordial when, in your own house, you
are introduced to a guest, and offer your hand.
If away from home, a bow is commonly suffi-
cient recognition. In performing an introduc-
tion, speak both names with perfect distinct-
ness."—Harper's Young People.


IN New Jersey as in Kansas fathers and mo-
thers have equal rights to the children.

	A MEMORIAL meeting of the anniversary of
the birthday of Lucritia Mott, was observed by
the Peace Union in Germantown, Penn. If
any one deserves remembrance it is the sweet
Quaker lady who so nobly worked for many
years for woman's advancement.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿LINES ON A FRIEND.

There was a day in olden time, a day to me of rest;
There was a day I’ll bring to mind, that day to me was
	blest.
I saw an angel here below, an angel from the skies;
I saw an angel lovely too, that came from paradise.
No tongue can tell the ecstasy, no pen can paint the joy,
That filled her soul with pure delight, delight without
	alloy;
The form was sculptured by the hand of the Omnipotent
The spirit was his likeness too. Yet to the Earth was
	sent.
I saw this personage in love, with every lovely thing,
I saw this personage enjoy the early flowers of spring
I heard with rapture, when she sang, I saw her kneel and
	pray,
I saw her moving through the earth, her spirit led the
	way.
I saw her by the bed of death, she wept with those who
	wept,
I saw her by the little heath, where friends and kindred
	slept;
I saw her in the house of God, I watched her when she
	prayed,
I've joined in prayer, while with her there, and to her I
	have said:
Why hast thou left thy blest abode, to dwell with man
	below?
Her quick reply to me was this, to feel for others woe.
Couldst thou not feel for others woe within that blest
	abode?
No; sorrow could not enter there, in presence of our God,
Dost thou feel sorrow then like me, thou angel from the
	skies?
O yes! for I am mortal too, and this will make me wise.
In heaven my spirit was at rest, but there I knew no joy,
For sorrow could not enter there, t'was peace without
	alloy.
Exalted beings there were clothed with immortality;
And to be like them I must take on earth mortality.
My eyes are open now to see the evil and the good,
And if the covenant I keep, I'll soon return to God;
There I shall reign with kings, and queens, and be forever
	blest,
A thousand years with Christ on earth a thousand years
	of rest;
Thus spake the angel, but she has gone, I see her face
	no more,
But round me still the memory clings and will forever-
	more.
										P. H. Y.


'TIS BUT A FOOLISH DREAM OF
MINE.

M. J. TANNER.

'Tis but a foolish dream of mine,
	As fleeting and as vain
As many a thought that passes by,
	And never comes again.

But Oh! so long I've held it there,
	And pressed it to my heart;
Though other dreams may be as fair
	It never can depart.

Throughout life's long and busy day
	Its echoes oft will ring,
And fleeting shadows pass away,
	As showers of the spring.

The tender cords of love may bind
	Two happy hearts in one;
But envy's jealous darts will find
	Love's labors all undone.

The gilded walls of marble halls,
	To mirth and joy resound;
But oft within the cottage walls
	True happiness is found.

It is not born of high estate,
	Nor yet of low degree;
There's sorrow for the wise and great
	And sorrow waits for me.

Then let me cherish while I can
	The tender dreams of youth;
The ties that bind our earthly 
	The flowers of love and truth.


And if, perchance, within the heart
	Some tender bud may bloom,
That does not form of life apart,
	The soul should give it room.

Then let me dream of love or fame,
	Or spring time sweetly spent;
The leaves that in the summer came
	With April showers were blent.

If all life’s hours were dull and gray,
	Duty our only call;
The birds of spring would fly away,
	And leave its crumbling wall.

'Tis but a foolish dream I ween,
	So fleeting and so vain;
But as eaeh springtime grass is green,
	It ever comes again.


LETTER TO THE PRIMARY.

	KENT, ENGLAND FEB. 3rd, 1882.
TO THE PRIMARY ASSOCIATION OF BOX
ELDER STAKE.

	Dear Brothers and Sisters, I feel as though I
would not be doing my duty if I should neglect
writing to you, after the great good you have
accomplished, in sending for the poor Saints
that are not able to help themselves. The little
boys and girls in England, don't have such nice
homes as you have. I have been traveling
among the people of England for over a year,
and I've often felt as though I could sit down
and weep, when I see little boys and girls that
cannot get enough to eat, and sometimes their
mothers will go without anything to eat, so they
can have something to give their little children.
I've sat down at a table to eat after walking
twenty miles, and I would look at the little
children I could see that they were hungry; then
I would eat but a few bites and tell the children
to eat the rest. It would do me more good to
see them eat, than for me to eat a dozen sup-
pers. You little boys and girls have plenty,
and if I should call and see some of you, you
could give me something to eat and not suf-
fer for it. One day as I was walking through
the village, and thinking of the poor saints, I
wondered, what I could do that I might get en-
ough money, to send out a little girl from Eng-
land, and something said to me write to the
President of the Primary Association, and see
if she cannot get all the little boys and girls, to
donate a few cents a week till they get enough
to send for a little girl. I then wrote to the
President and in about six weeks received an
answer, saying she thought they would be able
to send for a little girl or two, by the last com-
pany that left Liverpool.
	Dear boys and girls you don't know how
pleased I was to sec the little girl leave Eng-
land, and go to the land that the Lord had pro-
vided for His people to flee to, in order that
they might be protected from the judgments
that are coming upon those that will not serve
Him and keep His commandments. The
mother of the little girl that you sent for wish-
es to be remembered to you all, and she feels
that the Lord has blessed her in opening the
hearts of the Primary Associations in helping
her child from this land. Dear brothers and
sisters you are now engaged in something that
will prove a blessing to you on the earth as
well as hereafter, for by sending for the girl
you have been the means of bringing another
into the Church so you see you are missionaries.
I’ve walked over four thousand miles in the past
year. I have found many kind friends some
that are not of us, but they are honest-hearted,
when I've been delivering the word of God to
the people, I've had them shut the door in my
face, and say they didn’t want anything to do
with the Mormons. While I am writing a
sister comes in and tells me her husband has
been scolding her for attending meetings here on
Sunday. He watches her like a cat watching
a mouse, lest she should see some of the Eld-


ers. It is not because we are such bad men
but because we are teaching the word of the
Lord. I hope the Lord will bless you in the
good work in which you are engaged in obeying
the counsel which is given and the Lord will
bless you in all you undertake to do in righte-
ousness. Love to all that are engaged in the
building up of God’s kingdom.
	I remain your brother in the Gospel.
					FRANK H. SNOW.


PRIMARIES IN ST. GEORGE STAKE.

	March 7th 1882 a meeting was held in the
Tabernacle to organize the Primary Associa-
tions for the Stake. Sister Julia H. Ivins was
sustained and set apart as President; with Sis-
ters Mary G. Whitehead and Annie C. Wood-
bury as Counselors; Annie M. W. Romney as
Secretary; and E. P. Bently as Treasurer;
were also set apart by the brethren. Sisters
E. R. Snow Smith and Zina D. H. Young,
were present and gave much eloquent as well
useful instruction.
	During the spring and summer all schools
and meetings were suspended on account of the
prevalence of diptheria. In the early fall Pres.
Ivins once more commenced the work which
has since grown in interest, benefit, and mutual
pleasure. In the winter Sisters Ellen S. Claw-
son and Aurelia S. Rogers met with the Prim-
aries of this and adjoining towns and seemed
equally as well pleased to meet with the mem-
bers as we were to see them.
	The Secretary A. M. W. Romney having
moved to Arizona and consequently resigned
Pres. Ivins appointed Susa Young Gates as
Stake Sec'y.
	Our President is a live, active General over
her little army of youthful saints, and labors
in the dual capacity of Ward Pres., and Stake
Pres., verily; cheerfulness and energy are
goodly possessions, and the consequence is, our
Associations seem to grow more interesting as
time passes on. Joint monthly meetings have
been called by the Pres. at which oftentimes
the Officers and some members of the Wards 5
miles off walk over to attend.
	A Stake Fair is in contemplation for the
near future and if energetic efforts will make
it a success the Pres. and her able Counselors
are sure to succeed. Our Conference has just
closed.
	On Saturday the 18th the Primary Conference
was held. It was the best attended of any of
the Woman’s Conferences. Numbers of repres-
entatives were present from other wards and a
most enjoyable time was experienced.
	The Primary of this Stake, I will conclude
by saying is in a most excellent condition
throughout.
		Your sister &c.
					SUSA YOUNG GATES.


MRS. Emily Charles is the editor of the
"National Veteran" a new paper published in
Washington.
	The House passed the law allowing woman
to practise as attornys at law in the United
States.
	The Legislature of the State of Iowa have
passed through both branches a bill granting
suffrage to women from the Constitutional
Committee. The bill reads. "That the con-
stitution of the State be amended by striking
out the word "male" from Section 1 Article 2
of said constitution and that the same be re-
ferred to the Legislature to be chosen at the
next general election of members of the Gen-
eral Assembly and that the Secretary of State
cause the same to be published for three months
previous to the day of said election, as provied
by law."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMANS'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	APRIL 1, 1882.


[Column 1]
SENSATIONAL STORIES ABOUT THE
MORMONS.

	One conversant with the facts cannot help
feeling astonished at the sensational stories told
of family life among the Mormons. There are
the bugbears that have frightened the people of
the United States into compelling the rulers of
the land to deal with the people of Utah as out-
laws and felons. But why should not Congress
pause until disinterested men and women could
have been sent to make a correct and fair inves-
tigation in the premises. What necessity was
there for the desperate hurry, unless it was that
there was a fear of facts coming to light that
would preclude the need of special legislation?
No other Territory of the Republic of America is
so favorably situated at the present time as
Utah, or as it was previous to the passage of the
Edmund's bill. The very fact that these com-
plainers have stirred up such fountains of
bitterness having enriched themselves
here and established their various forms
of religion disproves what they say of the Mor-
mon people. They see this little band of exiles
driven without mercy into the barren wilderness
growing rich, and as they imagine powerful, and
in the envy of their hearts, they cannot endure
it, but want to have another trial to see if there
is any power in the "Mormon" priesthood.
They cannot bear to see this hated and despised
class lift up their heads and grow independent.
They have sought in vain, with a few exceptions,
to decoy the children of the Saints. And they are
grown discouraged in offering the old-time worn
thread-bare stories like the Spaulding romance
and others of even a more sensational character.
	There is nothing so calculated to arouse the
most intense emotions of the heart of a "Mor-
mon," as the oft-repeated assertion in the news-
papers of the country that "there are no homes
in Utah." In no place under the shining sun is
home held more sacred, or domestic ties more
binding, and the proportion of happy homes
where love reigns supreme is indeed very large.
To attempt the destruction of these home-sanc-
tuaries where virtue is nourished and protected,
and honesty, truth and uprightness inculcated,
and spread desolation and misery broadcast is the
prospective work of the reconstructors in enforc-
ing the Edmund's bill. To be instrumental in
seeking to tear asunder those who have entered
into holy covenants with each other, to rend the
heart-strings of the loving and devoted, to make
shipwreck of human happiness, with all the at-
tendant consequences of this terrible state of
affairs, no one need envy these agents of the
government, the five commissioners. One in-
terested heart and soul in the matter, cannot
help seriously and intensely pondering as to the
outcome of such exceptional proceedings, by a
government professing protection for all men
irrespective of religion. That the principle of
plural marriage among the Latter-day Saints is
practised most positivly from strong religious

[Column 2]
convictions must be well known to all who are
acquainted with the individual character and
home life of this people. Were it not so such
sacrifices could not have been willingly made, as
have been absolutely necessary in the establish-
ment of this new departure in social ethics. It
is not the most pleasant thing to be "hated of all
men" and have "your name cast out as evil."
The passage of the Edmund's bill will be sure to
provoke and involve other difficult questions
which will sap the very foundation of the struc-
ture on which justice is enthroned (if it has not
already been done) and the people who have
clamored and urged upon Congress this crusade
agains the "Mormons," will yet have to suffer
from the effects of this very precendent, they
have been the means of establishing. The
"Mormons" are not going to be the only sufferers
from the adoption of such radical laws. The sec-
tarian priests who have been loudest in denounc-
ing the "Mormons" from the pulpit and to the
government may tremble for fear of the retribu-
tion which is sure to follow upon their devoted
heads, now that the government has commenced
legislating against one form of religion.
	This is only the beginning but what shall the
end be? Who can tell? The Latter-day Saints
can endure oppression from the hands of their
enemies even unto death if need be, but Zion will
be established in the tops of the mountains, and
the Lord in his own due time will make bare his
arm in defense of this people!


[Column 1]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Annual Conference is near at hand, and
it will probably be one of the most interesting
and remarkable Conferences that has ever con-
vened. The important era of time in which we
are living will make an impression upon every-
thing connected with the Latter-day work.
There is no doubt but the people will make a
great effort to assemble from all parts of the
Territory.
	Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson, who has been for
the past six months in New York City attending
the medical and surgical clinics at Belle Vue
Hospital, and the Woman's Hospital of the State
of New York, is on her way home and is expected
to arrive about Apr. 1. She will commence a class
in Midwifery Apr. 17th. The course of instruc-
tion will be practical and thorough and those
desiring to join the class will please send their
names to the Exponent Office as soon as pos-
sible in order that books may be procured in
time. Tuition $30.00 Books $12.00.
	Henry W. Longfellow, the poet, departed
this life on Friday evening March 24th, his com-
plaint was inflammation of the bowels. His
name and fame are widely know both in America
and Europe. His funeral was held at his resid-
ence in Cambridge on the 27th, and was at-
tended by many of the literati. The services
were conducted by his brother the Rev. Samuel
Longfellow. Memorial services were held in
Harvard College the same evening. This great-
est of American poets was born in Portland,
Maine, Feb. 27, 1807. As a boy he distinguished
himself in literary pursuits and at fourteen en-
tered Bowdoin college and graduated with honor
in 1825. Fifty years after in l875—a grand reun.
ion of the old professors and classmates was held
at Bowdoin college and Longfellow was the poet
laureate of the occasion, the poem entitled
Morituri Salutamus was pathetic and artistic.
Evangeline, Hyperion, Hiawatha, The Golden
Legend, and The Spanish Student are among
the most popular of his writings. He lived just
three quarters of a century, but his works are
immortalized as are those of every true poet.
	ON Friday March the 17, was the Fortieth

[Column 2]

Anniversary of the organization of the Relief So-
ciety in Nauvoo by the Prophet Joseph Smith,
it was also the anniversary of the birthday of
Sister Elizabeth H. Goddard of this city, and the
two anniversaries were kept at Sister G's. house
in an appropriate manner. The invited guests
assembled at three o'clock p. m. and at four
o’clock sat down to a bounteous repast. Bishop
M. Attwood prouounced the blessing. The only
gentlemen present were Bishop Attwood and
Bro. G. Goddard, but there were twenty or more
representative ladies. After supper all assembled
in the parlor and the question was asked, how
many were there in the room who were present
in Nauvoo at the first organization, when it was
found there were only two, Sisters Sarah M.
Kimball and Bathsheba W. Smith. Several
others there had been members of the Society
but not present at the organization. Sisters
Kimball and Smith related some incidents re-
lative to the subject, and Sister Phebe Woodruff
gave a chapter from her experience, Sister M. I.
Horne also spoke of the many trying scenes
through which she had passed with the Saints.
Sister Kimball read from the diary of Joseph
Smith his views concerning the Relief Society,
its object and the manner in which the meetings
should be conducted.
	The evening was spent in intelligent conver-
sation upon the principles and practise of the re-
ligion of the Latter-day Saints and all felt the
day had been a pleasant one. During the even-
ing Bro. Goddard, and others sang some favorite
hymns. Sister Goddard may well be satisfied
with the day, for although it was stormy with-
out, which hindered Sister Eliza R. S. Smith
and others from attending, yet the occasion was
an exceedingly pleasant one, and we wish Sister
Goddard not only many happy returns of the
day but joy and happiness here, and eternal hap-
piness hereafter with those she loves in the man-
sions of glory.


SISTERS—OF WHOM SHALL WE BUY.

	There is more in this question than a casual
observer might think.
	The politicial, civil and social rights of the en-
tire people are threatened; that there is a deep laid
scheme to rob us of all these no careful observer
will deny. Polygamy is the ostensible bone of
contention, the attack is (seemingly) made up-
on this institution alone. Because of this, our
fathers, husbands, brothers, sons, as well as our-
selves (who have entered into these relations) are
to be disfranchised, denied not only the right of
office but even the right to cast our vote for those
who might be our choice for office.
	The people who came here first and took the
initiative in determining the question (for it was
a question) of inhabiting this mountainous region
and demonstrated not only the possibility but
the practicability of such inhabiting; the Sires,
Matrons, and their children who are to-day re-
warded with comfortable homes, beautiful gard-
ens and orchards, fields yielding plentifully and
surrounded with the comforts of life generally;
after a period of nearly thirty-five years of exper-
ment, toil, hardship, privation, want and more
than once, threatened famine have become the
envy of hungry cormorants, who love to feed
upon that which is already provided: these are
politic withal; "we will do nothing," they say,
but what the law allows, justifies and warrants.
We offer you women and children of these wicked
polygamists protection under the law, freedom
from matrimonial covenants entered into under
Mormon administration, for these are unlawful.
We will place you upon a higher plane than that
you now occupy; you shall become like unto us.
Leave the practices of barbaric ages and accept


of the advanced civilization of the nineteenth
Century.
	Finding the Statute book wanting in some par-
ticulars for the accomplishment of this laudable
object we have obtained Special Legislation to
enable us to carry out our pure intentions toward
you and trust you will readily acquiesce; failing
in which we shall be compelled to execute the
law by inflicting the penalties which it provides,
by means of this special legislation.
	Who are these that thus coax and threaten in
one breath; to what society do they belong?
We would like to know them. Oh! these are
Ministers of the gospel, of the meek and lowly
Jesus, and Federal officials, appointed by the
government sent as the servants of the people to
watch over their interests and see that their
rights are held sacred; members of the legal pro-
fession whose only aim should be right and justice
Merchants—stop! I have seen the highest of-
ficial of a State pledge his own honor and the
faith of his state to protect the life of the Prophet
of God, (Joseph Smith) I have seen that honor
sacrificed, that faith broken and foul murder fol-
low. I have seen the luminaries of the law drag
in the mire their high attainments in trying to
tear truth from its foundations and to stamp up-
on innocence the foulest crimes. I have seen
the learned divine rave and foam at the mouth
when defeated in fair argument by the unlearned
Elder, and have heard said divine advocate all
sorts of wicked and unlawful things to be vis-
ited upon his successful antagonist: but the Mer-
chant—you surely must be mistaken, for it would
be against his own interest to make common
cause with these you have named and others.
Let me assure you then, I am not mistaken, for
in this special legislation I have named while the
Merchants may not have been as clamorous as
the rest, they have stood idly by and when asked
to sign a petition to have investigation made of
these most false, foul and corrupt charges against
the people of Utah; before such special legisla-
tion was enacted, have almost universally
refused and thus stand upon the same platform
as our avowed enemies.
	That they have sought our trade 'tis true,
have tried to suit our taste and fancy is also true;
but this was to their pecuniary advantage for
have we not paid our money for all they have
let us have? Yes; to the tune of millions, and
more promptly perhaps than the same number
of people of any other class would have done in
all Christendom, for is not Mormon honesty in
paying debts proverbial? Then we owe them no-
thing; absolutely nothing: for if an equitable
balance were declared it would show the odds in
their favor as their enlarged show rooms and
mammoth stores testify,as well as their generally
improved financial condition.
	They have now drawn the dividing line we
did not do it. Had we been left alone we might
still have bought of them and they sold to us;
those who have already grown rich upon Mor-
mon patronage might have become richer and
others might have followed in their wake. But
now—"Of whom shall we buy?" Let every
mother and daughter in Israel answer this ques-
tion for herself. More than a Century ago wo-
man made common cause against her oppres-
sers: let the daughters of these noble women (of
whom Utah can boast a very large share) follow
their example in at least one particular, "To not
give succor to the Enemy',' The line has been
drawn; they having defined it, let us respect the
mark they have made.
	"Of whom shall we buy?" Hereafter only of
him or her who we know to be our friend, the
friend also of right, truth, justice and of God.
	AUNT RUTH.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 165


Mass meeting of the People's Party at the
City Hall to-day.


[Column 1]
NEW YORK LETTER.

		NEW YORK MAR. 14 1862.

	EDITOR EXPONENT—The suspense is over and
both Houses of Congress have declared their de-
termination to put down Mormonism, even if it be
at the expense of a violated Constitution—Pract-
ically they have said that Mormons have no
rights that Governments are bound to respect—
Their motive is not to promote virtue, purity,
good order, morality and religion. If these were
their desires, they would find quite enough work
nearer home—work that would tax all their leg-
islative power to accomplish. The agitation is
not made by the people. Most of them know
but little about the Mormons, and trouble them-
selves far less about either their social or religi-
ous pecularities. The politicians and the clergy
are the prime movers in the matter. The former,
because they know that a fearful social and fi-
nancial crisis is near at hand, and they desire to
divert the attention of the people from the irre-
pressible conflict between Capital—Monopoly
and Labor, which will very soon produce a panic
more serious than any that have preceded it, and
therefore they cry "Mormonism Polygamy—
Down with Mormonism." The clergy join in
the cry with might and main for almost the
same reason. Like Demetrius and the silver
smiths of Ephesus, their craft is in danger.
The triumph of Mormonism, which is the tri-
umph of the Gospel of the new and everlasting
covenant, is the death blow to Sectarian Christ-
ianity.
	The hireling priests of modern Babylon who
preach for hire and divine for money are in every
respect like the Pharisees of old, they "have
taken away the key of knowledge" and have
neither entered in themselves nor permitted
others to enter in who would. And if an in-
dividual or newspaper, more independent than
the rest, dares to utter one word in behalf of
justice and fair play, Constitutional and religious
liberty, the cry of "Mormon sympathizer!!
Polygamist!" Is immediately raised to intimid-
ate them into silence. One incident will serve
to show how ignorant the masses of the people
are. A prominent society lady in New York
said to me a few weeks ago that she had always
supposed that the Mormons were a tribe of
Indians who had given the Government a great
deal of trouble by killing and massacring white
people who traveled that way. When I showed
her the views of our city, and gave her the art-
icles of faith and a newspaper to read, she was
amazed. I could relate many incidents of this
character which I have met with during my
stay here. I should have been very pleased,
could I have commanded the time, to have been
a more regular correspondent, but my medical
and surgical work has been so continuous and
absorbing, that I have not had a moment to spare
for any thing outside of it. Though New York
abounds with opportunities of culture in every
department of art and science, and under other
circumstances I should have deeply appreciated
them. I determined that nothing should inter-
fere with my entire devotion to the course of
study I had marked out for myself before com
ing here. I feel gratefully to acknowledge the
hand of God in opening up my way and enabling
me to accomplish even more than I had ever
anticipated. During the first three months my
time was almost entirely occupied at Belle Vue
Hospital, attending the clinical lectures, and in
Dispensary work in the out door department
where I made a special study of diseases of the
Nose, Throat, Lungs and Heart, examining and
treating from forty to fifty patients every week.
The knowledge and experience that I have
gained in this department alone would more
than repay me for my visit. The remaining

[Column 2]
three months I have spent in the Woman's
Hospital of the State of New York studying the
Diseases of Women, under the most eminent
gynecologists of the present day.
	In this department I have had large oppor-
tunities for practical work, as well as clinical
instructions under Drs. Emmet, Gaillard,
Thomas, See and Bozeman, men who have no
superiors among the professional talent of this
country, and who have attained a worldwide
reputation for surgical skill and pathological
reseach in gynecological medicine, And now
that my work is done and I am about to turn
my face homeward I feel as if for the first time
I dared to give vent to my feelings and indulge
in a desperate home longing. The thought of
returning to Zion, of reunion and association
with the people of God and enjoyment of the
blessings and ordinances of the Lord's House
fills my heart with joy.
	My association with the people of the world
made me feel more than ever thankful that I
am a Latter-day Saint, and I pray to be kept
humble and faithful unto the end. May the
Lord bless Zion and comfort His people, over
rule all things for the good of His Church and
kingdom, until He comes whose right it is to
reign. Love to all from yours truly.
					ELLEN B. FERGUSON.


IN MEMORIAM.

	With loving remembrance we record the de-
mise of another Veteran in Israel Sister Jane
Tuckett who departed this life March 10th 1882,
after an illness of one week, at the residence of
her son in the 11th Ward, Salt Lake City, at the
advanced age of 80 years 9 months and 7 days.
	Deceased was born in East Grinstead, Sussex,
England, July 3rd 1795. She was baptized into
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
in London May, 1818. Emigrated to America
in the ship Berlin in 1819, passing through New
Orleans, remained in St. Louis five years.
Crossed the plains in Moses Thurston's company
in 1855 and became one of the pioneer settlers in
Spanish Fork, also St. George, Utah where she
buried her only daughter. She was a woman of
remarkable energy and retained all her faculties
to the last moment, conversing freely of her exit
to the life beyond as one would speak of an ex-
pected pleasure trip, consigning various articles
to the care of her friends as tokens of remem-
brance.
	Death had lost all its terrors and she earnestly
desired to enjoy the rest promised to the obedient
and faithful; she had finished her useful career,
was satisfied with life and counseled her children
to live the religion revealed through the Prophet
Joseph Smith, and prepare themselves to receive
a fulness in the celestial kingdom of God. She
only clung to life until she could see two absent
sons who had been summoned to her side, only
one of whom arrived in time to see her pass
away without a struggle. Her life was devoted
to ministering to the sick and needy and many
will have cause to remember her kindness with
deep gratitude' She was the mother of seven
children, and leaves four sons, thirty-one grand-
children, five great grand-children and a wide
circle of friends. She died as she had lived, a
true Latter-day Saint, with the assurance of a
glorious resurrection. Her funeral was largely
attended in the 11th, Ward meeting house
March 10th, when the remains of a good woman
a most devoted mother and true friend were
quietly laid to rest to await the resurrection of
the just.
	"Mourn not the dead who peaceful lay
		Their wearied bodies dawn—
	Who leave the frail and mortal clay
		To seek a fadeless crown."
			LILLIE F. FREEZE.


166	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HONOR TO WHOM HONOR IS DUE.

	The Young Ladies Association of Sugar House
Ward met at the residence of our President,’Mrs.
Harriet A. Hardy on the 9th, of March for the
purpose of celebrating the 54th anniversary of
her birthday. The following gifts were pres-
ented to her as tokens of appreciation and love
by the members. A bouquet of zephyr flowers, an
Autograph Aibum with the autographs, of all
the members of the Association, a painting by a
young lady 15 years old, an elegant birthday
cake made by three of the young ladies, some
poetry was read which had been composed for
the occasion by Miss Lillie Hansen. A bountiful
repast was prepared by the young ladies, and the
afternoon was spent in delightful, social inter-
course; all joining in wishing our beloved Pre-
sident many happy returns of the day.
					RHODA HARDY, Sec'y.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

	DEAR SISTER WELLS: The Conference of
the Relief Society of Weber Stake of Zion, was
held in the Ogden Tabernacle on March the
9th. Thought you would perhaps like to know
a little of what was done and said on that day.
We missed the presence of Sister Snow and
yourself very much, but although you were
both absent you were not forgotten, and had
the love, faith and prayers of all the brethren
and sisters at this time. I will try and tell
you a little, becanse you know it would be dif-
ficult in a short letter to begin to tell of the
many great and glorious principles that the
Saints of the Most High, have to talk of. The
subjects being various, and many, and as a
general thing they do not while speaking in a
meeting of this kind confine their thoughts to
one particular subject. The Conference was
conducted by President Jane S. Richards, com-
menced by singing, prayer by Bishop Joseph
M. Harris. Minutes of the previous meeting
read and accepted, also the reports, 17 in num-
ber.
	President Richards addressed the congrega-
tion, spoke of the duty of Saints, thought what-
soever was a duty, whether great or small.
should also be a pleasure to be performed by
us as a people. Thought it would be wise to
meet oftener together, by so doing we would
enjoy the Spirit of the Lord to a still greater
extent than we now do, and that we would be
more united; to be a great and good people we
must have the spirit of love and unity in our
midst, for we know not how many may be the
trials and temptations we may have to endure
for our religion. Spoke of the blessing that
even trials sometimes were to us; also of the
little things of life. Prayed the Lord to bless
and sustain us all in doing good. Counselor
Hattie Brown. Desired to respond to every
call made of her,thought that in doing our duty
we would find great pleasure. Spoke of ignor-
ance, felt that no true Saint could be ignorant,
having so many good books to read, and hear,
ing so many great and noble thoughts from
some of the best and noblest of men. Thought
we should pray for one another, and through
faith build each other up, and not pull down.
Counselor Sarah J. Herrick, was pleased to see
so many in attendance, from throughout the
County, it being very stormy weather,it showed
that they were alive to their duties, and God
would bless and pour his Holy Spirit upon
them, that they would better realize the bless-
ings and goodness of a loving Father to them.
	Brother Joseph Harris, felt to praise the
Lord for his goodness to the Saints; knew the
span of life on this side the vale was short, and
life's journey full of trials and temptations, still
we have very many pleasures; it is a pleasure
to be surrounded by friends, by those whom

[Column 2]

we love, and are co-workers with us. We feel
comforted even in sorrow, and can look up and
praise and sing to God, thought that like the
three Nephites of old, a great deal of our sor-
row, shoud be for the wicked of the world, felt
the Saints took pleasure in pushing forward in
all things pertaining to the kingdom of God; in
sunshine or rain, and those having the Spirit of
God dwelling in their hearts were indeed happy;
they can tell the Spirit of the Lord from other
spirits; it will whisper peace, and joy to their
souls, and take away hatred, strife, malice,
and all evil from their hearts; their whole de-
sire being to do good. Said that if we followed
the Spirit of the Lord, all would be well with
us, that it would lead us in good paths. He
dwelt at some length upon the stage of life, do-
ing good, etc.
	The meeting adjourned, with singing and
benediction. The afternoon meeting com-
menced as usual, with singing and prayer.
The Presidents of the various societies reported
verbally, all being in a prosperous condition,
the members all feeling to rejoice in the bless-
ings they received through the goodness of
God.
	Bishop Robert McQuarie, felt interested in
the Relief Society, knew the work to be im-
mense, and of great value; it was not the work
of the world, but the work of God; and that
those who tried in any way to overthrow it, are
measuring arms with the Almighty, and they
would find sooner or later, that there is a fear-
full odds against them; for this work will con-
tinue to roll until it fills the whole earth, and
that our enemies will only do what the Lord
will let them; they would like to bring us into
bondage, but they will not be able to do it for
the Lord is on our side. Thought the Saints
in majority were growing nearer to God every
day, there are some drones in our midst, you
will find them everywhere for there are many
with no religion in them. He spoke upon
many subjects of interest to us as a people.
The Conference adjourned for three months.
Sang, "We thank thee O God for a Prophet."
Benediction by Brother Peter Later.
	MONTA HARRIS.

PROVO CITY.

MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	DEAR SISTER: Thinking perhaps you would
like to hear a little news from the 1st Ward, I
take the liberty of sending you these few lines.
On the 22nd, of Feb., being the anniversary of
Bro. Edward Meacham's birthday, Bishop J. P.
R. Johnson and his wife, the beloved President
of our Relief Society, and a few of the brethren
and sisters of the 1st. Ward met at his resid-
ence to give him a surprise party. After the
tables were spread with the good things of this
life, Sister Meacham sent for her husband (who
had been visiting at a neighbor's) when he saw
so many gathered together to pay their respects
to him, words failed to express his feelings.
When all were seated Bishop Johnson presented
Brother and Sister Meacham with a small
present as a token of the good feeling and esteem
of the brethren and sisters. Brother E. Meac-
ham is 80 years old, is one of the first settlers
of Provo, and a faithful man in the Church.
Sister Sophy Meacham was our Secretary for
11 years, but on account of her eye-sight fail-
ing she had to resign and is now a Teacher
faithful in all her labors. Our Society is in a
prosperous condition as also the Primary Asso-
ciation. Wishing the EXPONENT great success
in the cause of Truth.
	ANN S. DUGDALE.

BEAVER CITY.

	EDITOR EXPONENT: The Conference of the
Y. L. M. I.  Association of Beaver Stake was

[Column 3]

held in the Beaver meeting house, Friday
March 3rd, 1882.
	The attendance was unusually large, consist-
ing of representatives from all of the wards. A
large number of visitors were also present.
	The reports from the various wards, show
the associations to be in a much more flourish-
ing condition than at last Conference. There
has been quite an improvement in the exercises,
and a lively interest is manifested by the mem-
bers generally.
	The Association of Minersville, presided over
by Mrs .Lydia Blackburn, deserves special men-
tion, having excelled in the number of meet-
ings, attendance, and the promptness of the
members in carrying out the exercises.
	The Conference was addressed by a number
of the young ladies, by Sisters Grundy and
Dotson, and by President Jno. Ashworth.
	The readiness with which the young sisters
responded to the call, and the marked improve-
ment in public speaking, are truly gratifying.
Mary E. Ashworth, President; Fannie Harris,
and Ada E. Farnsworth, Counselors; Sadie
Shepherd, Secretary; Clara Murdock; Treas-
urer.
	SADIE SHEPHERD.

PAROWAN STAKE.

	The 9th Quarterly Conference of Relief So-
cieties of the Parowan Stake of Zion was held
at Cedar City, Sunday Feb. 5th; 1882, com-
mencing at 10 P. M.
	Present of the stand: T. J. Jones, and Mor-
gan Richards Jr., of the Presidency of the
Stake, and other leading brethren from the
different wards; President Ellen W. Lunt,
Mary Ann Lunt and Huldah A. Mitchell of
the Stake Relief Society, Presidents of Branches
of Relief Society, of Y. L. M. I. Associations,
Primary Associations, and others. After the
usual exercises, Pres. E. W. Lunt made a few
opening remarks and invoked the blessing of
the Lord upon the Conference. Minutes of
last Couference read and approved, also the
statistical and financial reports of each Relief
Society in the Stake, viz. Parowan, Cedar City,
Paragoonah and Summit. The remainder of
the forenoon was occupied by several of the
sisters bearing their testimony to the truth
of the work in which we are all engaged.
Choir sang, adjourned till 2 P. M. Benedic-
tion by Pres. Morgan Richards.
	At 2, P. M., after the usual exercises and
prayer by Elder Francis Webster,sacrament was
administered, Choir singing "Nearer my God to
thee." The officers of presiding board both
general and local were presented and unani-
mously sustained. Verbal reports of the So-
cieties were given by their respective Presid-
ents, showing that the faithful sisters felt well
in their labors and desirous of doing all that was
required of them. Many good instructions
were given by the sisters who spoke, of whom
there were many. The principle of Celestial
Marriage was strongly advocated and testimo-
nies borne in favor of the same. Some very
good counsel was given to the young brethren
and sisters just starting out in life together, to
start aright, not neglecting family prayers.
Conference was adjourned to be held at Sum-
mit May 7th, 1882. Benediction by Pres. T.
J. Jones.
	SARAH CHATTERLEY Sec'y.


PIPSEY PAPERS.—No 19.

	I have been trying for some time to take my
kinitting (my pen rather) and spend a little
time with Mrs. Scott.
	She wishes to know something of our lives,
and of the manners and habits of the people of
Utah. Some of our sisters have answered her
very ably, and I can fully endorse what they
have said but the subject is inexhaustible, and


[Column 1]
the lady wishes to know something of our man-
ners and habits as well as our theories concern-
ing marriage, so I will try to enlighten her so
far as I can. Each man who marries two or
more wives, manages his family affairs accord-
ing to the best of his judgment and the disposi-
tions of those with whom he is associated, just
as men do that have but one wife. Some men
think they can can manage the wife or wives
and some allow them to manage themselves.
Some families are very agreeable and study each
other's welfare and happiness, while others, I
am sorry to say, are not quite so harmonious in
their relation with each other. As far as my
observation extends that is generally the case
where there is but one wife. That does not by
any means condemn marriage,which we believe
to be a sacred and holy institution, and pecu-
liarly adapted to the welfare and happiness of
mankind.
	Our sons as well as our daughters are taught
to esteem their virtue, above any price and hold
most sacred the marriage covenants. The
sacred rites of our Church enjoin virtue and
purity, and those who transgress are held ac-
countable to God in a greater degree than those
who sin in ignorance.
	Some men provide for their families separ-
ately and each wife is head of her own house-
hold affairs. It places upon her greater re-
sponsibilites in training her children, and mul-
plies her cares, as the father must divide his
time and cannot always be at either home. It
teaches a woman self-reliance and necessitates
her to live nearer to God.
	Of "Mormon" women, I believe they will yet
take the lead among the women of the world,
as they have taken the lead in the franchise,
their discipline and practical education fitting
them to do so.
	Some wives prefer living in one home where
they can enjoy more of the company of the
husband, and have their families more immedi-
ately under his control.
	I have a neighbor who many years ago en-
tered into the practise of the order of plural
marriage. His first wife had no children, and
when he proposed marrying another, she exacted
the promise that the first child that was born
should he given to her. A promise which was
faithfully kept, for in due time a son was born
which she claimed and raised as her own. He
married a third wife who was also blessed with
children. After a few years both of the young
mothers died, leaving the first wife with eight
children to raise. I met her one day sobbing
ready to break her heart. "Oh sister T," said
she, "Emma is dead, and what shall I do? I
have often prayed for children but did not ex-
pect my prayers answered in this manner. I
said, "do the best you can and God will help
you." And He has blessed her. The children
have grown up around her and are respected
men and women. Some are married and have
families, and her feelings are as kindly towards
them as if they were her own. How much
happier the couple are than if they had gone
down to a childless old age.
	It is common for men whose wives have no
children to marry again, and who shall say it
is wrong. Who shall say that a man should go
down to a childless old age and have no one to
perpetuate his name, or mourn for him when
he is gone, because his first choice fails to fill
his expectations. There are many circum-
stances transpire wherein any unprejudiced per-
son could not fail to see that plural marriage
is a blessing. We connot deny that it is often
a trial. Some feel it in one way and some in
another; but God says He will have a tried
people. He says also that they shall he tried
in all things; and they shall be as gold seven
times refined in the furnace. If we are God's
chosen people our garments must be washed
white in the blood of the Lamb. I wonder
sometimes if people realize what that means.

[Column 2]
And I sometimes wonder when I see people
passing through trials and adversities, humble
and contrite, holding fast to the faith, if those
men or women are those whose garments should
be "washed white" and they should be brought
up through much tribulation.
	God certainly wishes his children to be hap-
py, and those who rely on Him and his prom-
ises will find their greatest happiness in keep-
ing his commandments, for He has said, "Come
unto me all ye that are weary and heavy laden,
for my yoke is easy and my burden is light."
	From what we learn from those who come
among us, our sisters in the East do not find
matrimony a "bed of roses." They are, many
of them, suspicious of their husbands, and men
fear to trust their wives, thus making marriage
a thing to he shunned as bringing responsibili-
ties and heart-burnings they are not willing to
encounter.
	The nation is spending its wrath on a few in-
significant people away off in the mountains,
where we had thought to get out of everybody's
way, and worship God according to the dictates
of our own consciences. But should we re-
main obscure and unknown? We should not
be what we profess; a power that shall be
known and acknowledged throughout the
world. It is written that God will make the
wrath of man to praise Him; and while the
heads of the nation are puzzling their brains as
to how they are to solve the "Mormon problem,"
we are sitting quietly at home, and making our-
selves happy in attending to our own business.
	As I sat in meeting yesterday listening to the
statistical reports of this stake, for the past three
months, I noticed that there were several more
boys than girls born during the time, also that
there were a number of men less than women
who had died. I could but reflect that God
was quite capable of disposing of the vexatious
question through natural principles. I heard
a probate judge say a few years ago in speaking
of unhappiness, in plural marriage, that he was
led to suppose there was more unhappiness
among those who were not in it, from the fact
that he gave five divorces to one given by Pre-
sident Brigham Young. I believe we can truly
say that we enjoy a large share of happiness. It
does not consist in any given condition of life.
Our "Gentile" sisters are unhappy in bearing
children, while we are most unhappy in not
bearing them; believing that to be woman's
highest mission on the earth. Many women
who are left widows in youth are only induced
to marry again by their desire to raise families;
and very few marry single men, as they prefer
a small portion of the society of a husband
they can truly honor, to the society of such
single men as would be likely to marry women
of their age and position.
	Every women who is married according to
the celestial law, being united with her husband
for eternity, and it is not usual for men believ-
ing in the Gospel to marry the wives of men
who are dead until they have already chosen a
wife for themselves, to be their's through all
eternity. For we believe in marriage as ex-
plained in the Bible, and take such examples
as Ruth and Boaz, for instance, in such cases.
We do not believe that a woman should spend
her life alone because her husband has gone be-
hind the veil, but should marry and raise a
family for her honor and for his also. The
afternoon is well spent and I will bid Mrs. Scott
good evening, hoping our gossip may prove sat-
isfactofy and we shall hear from her again. I
can assure her if she would call and see us she
would not be at all frightened, for we are
friendly people and abhor immorality above all
things.							MARY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 167


THE REASON WHY.

	In the glorious day in which we live, we s
the intellect of man and woman unfolding li


a flower, to bring us nearer to "Him who rules
on high." Science takes her votaries by the
hand and says, "Behold the wonders that have
existed since the world was, yet have they been
hidden for ages, and mortality has lived and
died, and never known that these things were,
till in this the last, the eleventh hour, they are
revealed to man." Yet weak, erring man
takes all the glory to himself, and tells us he
has done all this. Yes! by faith and research,
application and experiments, great and won-
derful things have been made known to those
who live in this day. The wonders of elec-
tricity, of steam, of the spectrum, of the dis-
tance of worlds, and existence of new metals
and gases in worlds, that it takes hundreds of
years for the light to reach this little second-
rate world of ours. All these things come like
an avalanche to overthrow old theories. We
wonder, we ponder, we accept them. But the
immortality of the soul, our condition before
we were mortal beings, and our future exis-
tence, all those great and important subjects
that one would naturally suppose would receive
the most attention from the intelligent portion
of humanity, are based upon the false reason-
ing of weak men.
	Who made your spirit, mighty man? With
all your knowledge can you stay the hand of
death and live for ever? Can you do aught
but learn and utilize the great forces which
you have no power to create? Ah! no; you
are but the creatures of your Father's bounty,
and are subject to the fixed laws which He has
made.
	Is it strange that God should give a plan by
which His children may be saved? And be-
cause He does not choose the worldly wise to
be His instruments to make it known to the
world, is it not a greater proof of His power?
	That God, our Eternal Father, has given
this plan, and is willing for all to believe, and
be saved, I do know and testify; that the time
has come for a people to prepare themselves for
the coming of Him who was slain by the un-
believing Jews, that the way might be prepared
for us to progress here and hereafter; that this
message is sent to all, to those who sit in high
places and low. And because those great fun-
damental truths are not believed by all, men
rise up and say, "You shall be slain if you
persist in such heresies; you must be as we are;
right or wrong;" when they know not the
truth as we know it. "You must lie to your
own consciences and turn traitor to your God,"
that God whom we have already sworn to serve
and obey. To all such I say, Never!
	Truth is truth, and when assailed it only
shines forth with greater brilliancy. What!
give up, for fear of men, that which God has
stamped upon my soul as an everlasting truth?
How dare they ask it. I do not ask any one
to believe as I do, unless that person be con-
vinced of the truth; none can say truthfully
that the Gospel was forced upon them. Yet
would I rejoice it every honest heart could en-
joy and know the blessings of the Everlasting
Gospel.				ZINA Y. WILLIAMS.


THE FAMILY DOCTOR SHOP.

Paste this up for reference in case of emergency.
	Nearly every person knows what to do in
case of injury, or sudden sickness, but it often
happens that under the excitement attending
such circumstances they become confused, and
forget all they know about it. The following
suggestions might be pasted up on the inside of
closet or bookcase door, where they could be
referred to promptly:
	Swallowing saliva relieves sour stomach.
	If children do not thrive on fresh milk, it
should be boiled.
	Hot, dry flannel, applied as hot as possible,
for neuralgia.


[Column 1]

	For nose-bleeding bathe the face and neck
with cold water.
	Tickling in the throat is best relieved by a
gargling of salt and water.
	Sprains and bruises call for an application of
the tincture of arnica.
	For bilious colic, soda and ginger in hot
water. It may be taken freely.
	If an artery is severed, tie a small cord or
handkerchief tightly about it.
	Pains in the side are most promptly relieved
by the application of mustard.
	For cold in the head nothing is better than
powdered borax snuffed up the nostrils.
	Nervous spasms are usually relieved by a
little salt taken into the mouth and allowed to
dissolve.
	Whooping-cough paroxysms are relieved by
breathing the fumes of turpentine or carbolic
acid.
	Broken limbs should be placed in natural
position and the patient kept quiet until the
surgeon arrives.
	Chlorate of potash dissolved in water is a
standard remedy for sore throat, particularly if
the throat feels raw.
	Hemorrhages of the lungs or stomach are
promptly checked by small doses of salt. The
patient should be kept as quiet as possible.
	For pains in the chest or stomach, as much
Dover's powder as will lie on a silver five-cent
piece.
	Sleeplessness caused by too much blood in
head may be overcome by applying a cloth of
cold water to the back of the neck.
	Sickness of the stomach is most promptly re-
lieved by drinking a teacupful of hot soda
water. If it brings the offending matter up,
all the better.
	Wind colic is promptly relieved by pepper-
mint essence taken in a little warm water.
For small children it may be sweetened. Par-
egoric is also good.
	For stomach cramps ginger ale, or a half-tea-
spoonful of the tincture of ginger in a half-glass
of water in which half a teaspoonful of soda
has been dissolved.
	A strong solution of bicarbonate of soda
(baking soda) taken freely is a reliable remedy
for diarrheal troubles, particularly those aris-
ing from acidity of the stomach.
	A teaspoonful of ground mustard in a cup of
warm water is a prompt and reliable emetic
and should be resorted to in case of poisoning
or cramps of the stomach from over-eating.
	Powdered resin is the best thing to stop
bleeding from cuts. After the powder is
sprinkled on, wrap the wound with a soft cotton
cloth. As soon as the wound begins to feel
feverish, keep the cloth wet with cold water.
	For burns, sweet oil and cotton are the stand-
ard remedies. If they are not at hand sprinkle
the burned part with flour, and wrap loosely
with a soft cloth. Don't remove the dressing
until the inflammation subsides, as it will break
the new skin that is forming.
	A strange antidote for poison by dew, poison-
oak, ivy, etc., is to take a handful of quicklime,
dissolve in water, let it stand half an hour, and
then paint the poisoned parts with it. Three
or four applications will never fail to cure the
most aggravated cases.
	Avoid purgatives and strong physics, as they
not only do no good, but are positively hurtful.
Pills may relieve for the time, but they seldom
cure. The pill-taker's latter end is always
worse than his first condition. Stomach bitters
are a snare, and only create a desire for stimu-
lants.
	Indigestion is the prolific cause of colics,
diaarrhoea, headaches, constipation and many
diseases of the bladder. Food that is not
digested becomes powerfully acid, causing irri-
tation and inflammation wherever it touches.
Many fevers are caused by it. Pepsin is the
best remedy, if taken immediatly after eating.

[Column 2]

If pepsin is not taken, the acidity should be
controlled by bicorbonate of soda or potash.
	Eat only such things as agree with you, and
not too much at a time. By heeding the warn-
ings of your stomach many doctor's bills, and
even undertaker's too, may be avoided. Shun
feasts and big feeds. Give children plenty of
milk and bread, Graham or oatmeal crackers,
and good ripe fruit. They will not only thrive
on this diet but keep healthy.
	In every house there should be a little nook
in which a few simple remedies are kept.
Among them should be extract of ginger,
Dover's powder, peppermint, chlorate of potash,
bicarbonate of soda, sweet oil, paregoric, cam-
phor, arnica, a bottle of pure whisky, cotton, old
muslin for bandages, some sticking-plaster, a
box of ground mustard and some ready-made
plasters. Always strike a light when you go to
get any of these in the dark, and be sure you
have the right one.
	An observance of these suggestions will pay
well for the trouble.—Sparta Herald.


168	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿IN ANSWER TO SOME FACTS.

	As the invitation is general to reply to Mrs.
Scott, I will give a few of my views in regard
to the peculiar order of marriage believed in
and practised by our people.
	The "Mormon" women do not look at it as
the "Gentile" women do; they sincerely be-
lieve it to be revealed from God, for the salva-
tion and exaltation of the human family. It
is the foundation for health and purity. A
man marries several wives—pure, virtuous wo-
men, they understand it to be a sacred and
holy order. That husband keeps himself free
from such vices as prevail in the world—he
would no more associate himself with the vile,
than he would enter a den of poisonous vipers,
for he looks upon adultery as one of the great-
est sins a man can commit. The wives love
and respect the husband, and know him to be
a man of God, and they have confidence in his
chastity and honor, and they are happy in each
other's love. The children are born pure, and
are healthy and strong physically, It is the
pride of a "Mormon" wife to have a large fam-
ily of bright, intelligent children, and she de-
votes her time and attention to teaching her
little ones, in their earliest youth, the princi-
ples of virtue, truth, honesty and industry;
she considers this her highest mission upon
earth, and she takes delight and finds happi-
ness in the pleasing task.
	I wish every honest man and woman in the
world could visit one Sabbath School out of
the hundreds that are established in this Ter-
ritory, where these beautiful, blooming, happy,
contented children congregate on Sunday
morning to be instructed and to partake of the
Sacrament. They could not help saying in
their hearts at least, Where are the evils which
are the result of the practice of the order of
plural marriage?		SUSAN TERRY.


AN important installment of "woman's
rights" has been conceded in Switzerland, where
the law making both sexes of full legal age at
twenty-one came into force with the new year.
In many cantons the age of majority for men
was hitherto been as high as twent-six; and,
as women were altogether denied majority, no
matter how old they were, the number of
"wards" was very great. The duty of guar-
dianship in most cases devolved on the com-
munes, which have now been relieve of much
thankless labor; and for the future Swiss wo-
men, at home and abroad, whether unmarried,
married, or windows, will be civilly emancipated
on their twenty-first birthdays. In the town
of Saint Gall alone, fortunes to the amount of
upwards of ten millions of francs were trans-
ferred to women, formerly in wardship. under
the new law, on New Year's day.


AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.

	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.

DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
CHILDREN'S FINE SHOES,
in the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

FOR SALE.
Home-Made SILK,
AT
CUTLER'S COMMISSION STORE.

A LARGE STOCK

	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by John C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys, 	Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

PALACE OF FASHION, No.17 EAST TEMPLE ST.
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feather, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ SPRING AND SUMMER GOODS. ☜

DAVID JAMES
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 10.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 15, 1882.	No. 22.


A CODICIL.

To only those it may concern,
	A few brief words I have to say;
Entwine no flowers around my Urn,
	Let no cold eyes behold my clay.

When death has sealed my pulses up,
	And bid my heart to cease its thrill,
When I have drained life's mingled cup,
	And eyes, and heart and brain are still,
Then, may some dear and treasured hand,
	Enfold me in my Temple robe—
And 'tis my wish, nay more—command
	That none death's secrets seek to probe!

I want no one to gaze on me
	With curious, apathetic eyes—
But those who loved me, they may be
	Admitted with their fond good byes!

These ever are, the few, to all
	Their tears are "holy water"—pure,
And from a sacred fountain fall,
	And these, my heart will ne'er abjure.

Within the presence of the dead
	Be still—tho' I shall not be there!
My spirit gladly will have fled,
	To Mansions—Oh! so bright and fair.

I wish my Cenotaph to be
	Within the hearts of those I love,
I ask that they will shed for me
	A few sweet tears, their love to prove.

I ask thro' their remaining days
	They will at times, remember me;
Their love so sweet, is more that "Bays,"
	To bind my brow—could ever be!

Of all I've written, said, or thought,
	There's little I would fain recall—
The feeling that has ever wrought,
	Within my soul was love to all!

'Tis true the ever mystic "three"
	Within my heart have borne their sway,
Dear—dearer—dearest—all to me
	Have shed their warmth thro' life's brief day.

I'm thankful for the boon of life,
	For good its darkest days have been—
Its sunny ones, with beauty rife,
	Have shed o'er all their glorious sheen.

There's nothing more I here will say
	My dearest ones! remember me!
And heed these words—nay more obey
	And see that they fulfilled shall be.

	HANNAH T. KING.
Salt Lake City, April 1882,


TRUE CHARITY.

	Do not we read in holy writ that the Lord
is angry with none, excepting those who do
not acknowledge his hand in all things? This
may be done in many things, and we fre-
quently find it takes a little time patience and
experience to learn how to apply the rule to
ourselves. And now since we have confidence
that this is the word of the Lord, the question
arises how shall we acknowledge the hand of
the Lord in the Edmund's bill? When the
news came that the Edmund's bill was to be-
come a law, my first impressions were directed
to the passage we find written in Revelations
chapter 30, verse 19th. "As many as I love
I rebuke and chasten, be zealous therefore and
repent." I think these measures when put in
practice will arouse our zeal, and when we pre-
sent ourselves to our Father in heaven in
humility, He will bless and comfort all those


who trust in Him. Then we will acknowledge
his hand in this, as well as everything which
has transpired towards building up his king-
dom upon the earth. I well remember in my
youth when repeating my Sabbath School
lesson, how surprised I was, that the Lord
should ask us to love our neighbors as our-
selves, which was almost impossible; and again
the Savior said you must "love your enemies
bless them that curse you and pray for those
who persecute you, bless and curse not.;' I
could not help asking how He could require
such obedience as this; when He who created
us knew that with our dispositions and tem-
peraments this could never be accomplished.
It is impossible in our own strength to do this.
	But now I feel thankful that I have lived to
see the day when I have learned what the
gift of the Holy Ghost will do to educate
the human heart. When under that influence,
you will love all the creations of God our
Father, you will give every thing its proper
value, and also its proper place, you will have
fervent charity, even that which the Apostle
Paul spoke of, when he said, "though I give
all my goods to feed the poor and my body to
be burned, and have not charity it profiteth me
nothing." You will not hate your enemies but
pity their blindness. For they believe in the
Savior of the world, and yet will fight against
those principles which He has designed them
to obey, that they may be qualified to come in-
to his presence, and also bring a reign of peace
upon the earth; and do they object to this? Do
they prefer war and strife? It often looks
like this. I am satisfied they are as blind as
the Jews were when the Savior made his first
appearance upon the earth. I would most
earnestly pray that the scales may drop from
their eyes, as did St. Paul's, when Ananias
prayed for him. This will be the case too I
feel assured to say, of all those who are as
truly anxious as St. Paul was, to do the will
of God, our Father, and their Father too; for
we are all the children of one Father. Such
persons will rejoice in the light of the Gospel
for it is the true light, (as St. John says) which
lighteth every man which cometh into the
world. But on the contrary the light of the
world dazzles and blinds, and they also wish
to dazzle others. This seems to be their great
object.			MARY ELLEN KIMBALL.


[Column 1]
	OPINIONS OF A GENTILE LADY.
MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	EDITOR WOMAN’S EXPONENT:—To the Mor-
mon women, all who have so kindly and po-
litely replied to me, I send greeting and good
will. I will not attempt to name them, fearing
one name might be overlooked and the person
seemingly slighted. Believing them all to be
trrithful, pure-hearted, intelligent, Christian
women, I accept their affirmations as to their
contentment, in the life they have chosen, or
accepted. The Mormon question is a very in-
teresting one to me, and when the Mormons say,
as one or two did in replying to me, that, “We
mind our own buisness, and only wish to be let
alone.” I hope they do not mean to say to me,
“Mrs. Scott please to mind your own business,
and ask no more questions.” I consider it the
business of every intelligent, rightminded wo-
man to ask questions about the Mormons and
every thing else, in this day of licentious-

[Column 2]
ness and corruption. A woman is to be des-
pised, who calmly sits down, folds her hands,
shuts her eyes and closes her ears to everything
beyond her own home circle. She can do
so, if she has no sons or daughters to go forth
into the world. But she dare not, if she reads
the daily papers and has a child growing up to
manhood or womanhood.
	I honestly own to you that I do not believe
in Mormonism but neither do I believe the half
of what is said against it; and wish sometimes
that I could “mind my own business and not
concern myself at all about it.” But am a sort
of restless bumble-bee, and reading so much in
the newspapers against it, stirs me up until I
want to stir up somebody else.
	I went to hear Ann Eliza lecture; my soul-
full of enthusiastic indignation against the
terrible set of people of whom I had read, and
from whom she had escaped. I heard her de-
liver the same lecture twice, and thought, as I
listened to her, “well, if I had escaped from
something so terrible as the papers say Mor-
monism is, I would not get up and speak a
piece, written and revised by Gentile friends.
I would tell something! I would stamp my
foot, and shake my fists at the audience, and
impress them with a sense of the terrible doings
of the wicked, depraved people from whom I
had escaped. Why two thirds of the women
in her audience could have told a sadder tale
of domestic misery than she related.
	Her lectures—first caused me to question the
truthfulness of the statements concerning the
wickedness and depravity of the Mormons.
Then I came across the Exponent, and read
in it, only of good works being done; no ac-
counts of murders, suicides or evil doings.  Its
pages were as pure as the heart of a little child;
the poetry in it, true poetry; fragrant with faith
in God, and love toward each other. More and
more I felt convinced that, those Mormons are
not all bad, and I determined to inquire into
the matter to see if these things were so.
	If you have no objections we will drop the
subject of polygamy for the present time, and
talk of other points of your belief. Is every
individual member of your church as full of
faith in God as yourself?
	The implicit religious faith you women seem
to have, will, I fear, never be given me. My
heart is full of unbelief skepticism, or Ingersol-
ism. Yet I sincerely wish to have faith.  But
questionings and bitterness overcome me when
I see the miseries of life, the sufferings of inno-
cent ones and the prosperity of the wicked.
	My very soul abhors the doctrine of future
rewards and punishments as preached.
	What is the belief of the Mormon Church,
and do you all have the same belief on such
matters? Romania B. Pratt says in her letter,
to the EXPONENT, “that you have not made
yourselves well enough known, that there might
be safety in having a few sentinels stationed on
the towers afar off.” So perhaps it would help
both you and me, to talk of the real belief of
those terrible Mormons.
		EMILY SCOTT.


IN the Massachusetts legislature the last
week in March 1882, the House bill to permit
women to practice as attorneys-at-law, and the
House bill for the preservation of the health of
females employed in manufacturing mechanical
and mercantile establishments were ordered to
be engrossed.—Ex.


170	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	HINTS ON MARRIAGE.

	This subject will never grow thread-bare by
frequent discussion, it ever holds a charm es-
pecially for the young. It is well to obtain a
correct understanding of every principle or
subject pertaining to our present and future
happiness, and the one I have chosen to discuss
is so important to our highest interest spirit-
ually, morally and phsyically,that there should
be no guess work about it; in this, only true
knowledge is safety. Ask any boy or girl what
they intend to do when they arrive at maturity,
and their truthful answer, unrestrained by false
teachings, would be, “I intend to marry and
have a home and family.” This natural desire
arises from a spark of the divinity implanted
in every breast and can only be, repressed by
the untiring efforts of that wily destroyer Sat-
an whose strongest forces are arrayed against
the unity and power of the family organization
and the increase of our species, more especially
where these conditions exist, under God’s direct
command and authority. Satan is exceedingly
jealous of power and he has, reigned supreme
for so many centuries that he does not intend
to resign his long usurped power without a long;
and fearful contest. But the love of home and
family is bequeathed to us by our heavenly
Parent, it is our lawful heritage and unless we
are successful in realizing pur rights in this re-
spect the heart can never be satisfied in time or
eternity.
	The dolls, playhouses and mimic attempts
at regulating household affairs in which every
little girl delights are but a representation of 
the ideal life of the wife and mother,whose deep
responsibilities should become a reality, and if 
woman fails to realize these cherished hopes
something is radically wrong. In proportion
as the power of evil increases, a disregard
for the sacred institution of marriage also in-
creases among the youth, and contempt for the
marriage obligations increase among the mar-
ried until this most sacred relationship will be 
overwhelmed by disunion and strife whose work
it is to tear asunder all family ties, leaving
broken bleeding hearts in their train, and only
among the despised Latter-day Saints will the 
true foundation of social harpiness and pros-
perity be found upon the earth; but in order to
realize this state, we must be guided by princi-
ples more perfect than those which have
wrought such dissolution. God has revealed a 
plan for establishing a new order of society
which will elevate and benefit all mankind who
embrace it. The nations that fight against it
are working out their own destruction, for their 
house is built upon the sand and one of the 
corner stones in the doomed structure is already
loosened through their disregard and dishonor
of the institution of marriage.
	The records of divorce have become truly 
alarming in all parts of the civilized world,
there must be a cause for every effect and 
“straw show which way the wind blows." Two
young people who are, or who imagine them-
selves to be truly in love, possessing.
		“Two souls with but a single thought
		Two hearts that beat as one.”
have not the slightest idea of a separation after
the law unites them. But is love all that is 
requisite to life long happiness? (and very few
indeed will acknowledge they marry without it)
Who is it that fill up the long list of divorces,
or, the still longer list of unhappy marriages?
It is those who, in the morning of life, looked
into the future with the fullest hopes resting 
secure in their ardent, and supposed undying
love, but as “Coming events cast their shadows
before,” so may we form a pretty correct opin-
ion of what the future will be, providing we are
guided by reason in connection with love, for,
“To be reasonable is to be happy.”
	Young Americans have conceived some very

[Column 2]
grand notions of freedom, and are liable to go
to extremes and consider lawful restraint, an
infringement upon their rights and such er-
roneous ideas will lead them to ignore the re-
straints and wise counsel which parents are so 
well qualified to administer after long and try-
ing years off experience, shadowed by many
heartaches caused by anxious and loving care 
for their children.
	But the most grievous of all mistakes is that 
of scorning or ridiculing the avise to ask God
for wisdom in this matter of such vital impor-
tance. The judgement of earthly parents
may prove fallible, confidence may rest secure
in Him who is the grand architect of our being,
and knows best, what can satisfy our soul’s
highest anticipations. Never, no never enter
into a marriage contract, however promising
and satisfactory it may appear, without first
seeking by earnest prayer and fasting if need
be a testimony from your Heavenly Father.
His love to the end can see while human love
and wisdom at best, is but short-sighted. Were 
all guided by this rule, would there be any oc-
casion for divorces? Love that is founded on
anything but intrinsic worth will never stand
the test of time and the vicissitudes of every
day life in this uncertain sphere, before which
all the romantic nonsense contained in novels
vanishes like pearly dew drops before the 
scorching sunbeams. Love though ever so 
strong and pure is not self supporting. It
must receivenourishment from other virtues,
prominent among them are chastity, honesty, 
intelligence and kindness; few if any natures 
are imbued with love sufficient to endure all
things purely for love’s sweet sake.
	However devotedly a girl loved a dishonest
man or one addicted to any evil habit, that 
love cannot save her from the natural conse-
quences of such things, but, on the contrary
only tends to intensify her anguish. The
man who is jealous and exacting as a lover,
will probably make a hard master and tyran-
ical husband. If he be shiftless and lazy, you
will, as his wife, have an excellent opportunity
to display your ability to support him and your
family.
	If the lover loafs arounf town, smokes chews
drinks even respectably (?) and swears, and
these things annoy you now, as a wife they will
wring you heart with misery unutterable, while 
your children will despite your good desires and 
influence, inherit traits of character to curse
themselves and others.
	“Be ye not unequally yoked together” religi-
ously for this is a fruitful source of unhappiness.
Accept no less virtue than you bestow, else con-
fidence the basis of all true harmony will be 
lacking. My young sisters, ever keep in mind
the fact that you will live to regret most heart-
ily the union with one who must steal you from
home and parents because he cannot honorably
claim you by reason of unquestioned merit.
	Young men be not satisfied with your sweer
heart’s parlor accomplishments. Were she 
always to remain in the parlor without an in-
terest outside of it mere accomplishments might
answer your purpose. But if it be a true wife,
mother and help-meet you seek, look deep into
the heart of her home-life, there you will find 
the true foundation upon which you are to con-
struct your future home of happiness. In all
things be honest, sincere and faithful and you
will not be compelled to exclaim as thousands
do to-day; “Oh! emptiness! Life what art thou
but a lie! Which I honored and greeted with
hopefulest trust.”
	But life may be devoted to the noble purprse
designed by our loving Creator, and we may at 
last feel satisfied with our labors here and the 
reward awaiting us beyond.
		LILLIE FREEZE.


[Column 1]
	MRS. Julia Ward Howe is said to have
learned Greek after she was fifty years old.—Ex.

[Column 2]
	PRINCESS Louise has consented to be patroness
of the Woman's Emigration Society.—Ex.


﻿EXTRACTS FROM A LETTER.

	The following paragraph is from the letter of
a Gentile lady who visited for some months in
this city and became well acquainted with
many of the people here.
	“God is moving the people,have to endure: the
attention of the world is being directed to your
valley, and God will use his people for the ac-
complishment of his purposes.  I am ever
thankful that I was accorded the privilege of
seeing President Young and knowing your
people. Ignorance is the cause of the prejudice
and the southern war was the result of ignor-
ance. What the result of all this is to be God
alone can foresee, but I believe all will be well
with your people. I have had many oppor-
tunities and have traveled all over this land,
but in your Valley I fonnd more purity, hap-
piness and industry, than in any other place.
I may visit your home again at some future
time. Give my kindest regards to good noble
Mr. Cannon, what a mockery these proceedings
must be to him, as he has seen for so many sea-
sons the corruption of the men who now sit in
judgment on him. Well, somewhere all will be
explained. I thank you for writing to me, I
will never lose an opportunity of expressing
my convictions in regard to Utah and her peo-
ple. Give my regards to Mrs. Wells, John W.
and Brigham Jr.  And tell any of the people
coming this way to come and see me, remember
me to your daughter and her family and Mrs.
Zina Young and Mrs. Horne, and all who re-
member me.
	March 29, 1882.


PLAIN TRUTHS.

	The more recent official drift at Washington
is ominous. It suggests the query: Is ours,
from the President downward, a government of
statesmen, or of politicians, and these last
not politicians of a high order at that? Abra-
ham Lincoln, Wiliam H. Seward, James A.
Garfield, were in some sense politicians; that
is, they were wedded in their affiliation and pre-
ferences to a party, and believed in such en-
deavors and appliances as are most lawful to
render that party successful. But they did not
overlook the true function of administrative
government as being "by the people and for
the people,"—that such function is best carried
out, and carried out only in harmony with the
original intent of our republican regime, when
the just ends and true interests of all the people
of every section and of all parties and colors are
consulted. This is the only basis on which a
government like ours can durably stand and
prosper in righteousness. No greater misfor-
tune can overtake the community than the ac-
cidental rule of men incapable of rising above
the plane of mere party politicians. Men are
to be deplored who come into the high places
of power with no higher conception of office,
than that in holding it they become dispensers
of place and position. The business of an
official is to perform faithfully the duties of his
office whatever the office is. It is a monstrous
perversion and abuse when it is otherwise.
The spoils system dies hard, but die it must, or
the republic will perish. The existing regime
actually puts a premium upon wickedness so
far as it is used to serve the ends of ambition
and selfishness. That "righteousness which
exalts a nation" dies out in the presence of such
methods at Washington as now seem to flourish.
But the flourishing is commonly short-lived,
just as the psalmist saw was true of the wicked
of his day. Query: Were politicians, such as
now exist and abound, among these?—The
Watchman, Boston Mass.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 171


THE VIOLET'S INTERCESSION.

			Thou lovely flower!
That hold'st with magic spell my longing eyes,
			Plucked in the hour
In which thine evanescent beauty dies;
	Go! tell the love that thrills within my heart,
To her for whom that heart doth wildly yearn.
	Thy beauty, eloquent beyond all art,
Must move her tender soul to some return.

			Lowly thy sphere,
Thou modest emblem of a painless joy;
			Sweet as a tear.
But brief thy life, as pleasant thoughts are coy.
	Yet with the gentle fragrance of thy breath,
Stealing her soul, thou may'st o'ercome her fears
	Then might her pure heart know that, come e'en
		death,
The love I feel will breathe through endless years.

									ST. CROIX.


" THE SONG OF THE RIGHTEOUS IS
A PRAYER UNTO ME".

DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS, PAGE 137. N.E.

The Truth has come forth in the last dispensation,
	The Truth which has ever been anarchy's rod;
And its friends, in the midst of a wild, rampant nation,
	Sing praises and honor and glory to God.
We will sing! we must sing! though the scorner may
		scoff it,
	And hypocrites rage around God's people free;
He hath said in his word, by the voice of his Prophet,
 "The song of the righteous is a prayer unto me."

King Pharaoh strove, in the time of good Moses,
	To keep ancient Isra'l in bondage to him;
And today in like manner, a nation proposes,
	To render our prospects, as hopeless and grim:
But we'll stand I as they stood! and we'll see the salva-
		tion,
	Which bore them triumphantly through the Red Sea;
And we'll sing! for 'tis written in God's revelation,
	"The song of the righteous is a prayer unto me."

And blessings shall follow, yea, blessings unnumbered
	Shall answer this token, "the song of the heart:"
Oh voices long silent! oh muse that hath slumbered!
	Awake! and in union sweet praises impart.
We will sing of His grace in this imminent hour,
	Whose love is our refuge, and ever shall be;
Who hath said to His Saints, in this day of his power,
	"The song of the righteous is a prayer unto me."

											LULA.
S. L. City, March, 1882.


[Column 1]
THAT WONDERFUL BILL.

	So the deed is done, the Edmund's bill has
received the royal signature. And our doom
is sealed, so say our enemies. A bill to disfran-
chise the most loyal people upon the face of the
earth, whose only crime is, that they exercise
the rights guaranteed by the Constitution, and
worship God as they have been commanded to
by revelation from heaven, and what have
the champions of this bill accomplished by this
move? In my humble opinion simply made
themselves, a hiss and a by-word throughout
all generations to come. The names of those
who voted for this infamous bill, will I believe
yet be classed with such men as Benedict Ar-
nold and those who have proved themselves
traitors to their country, and to those institu-
tions which have been bequeathed to us as a rich
legacy by the founders of American Independ-
ence. I was reading in the New York Herald,
a few days since, an extract from a manuscript
purporting to be written by a Mrs. Paddock,
on Polygamy, from actual experience (it said
among the Mormons) It contained the most
atrocious falsehoods I have ever seen in print.
About men in plural marriage whipping their
wives for trifling causes, and of one who
chained his wife down to the garret floor, and
kept her on bread and water diet for a number
of days, and many more of a like character.
And these are the wild-cat stories that are

[Column 2]
readily believed and acted upon by our wonder-
ful wise legislators. It is so perfectly ridicul-
ous, that it would be hardly worth a passing
notice, were it not for the momentous results
that are brought about from these very sources.
But it is only another drop in the cup of in-
iquity which seemingly was already filled to
overflowing.
	Now I have had a very good opportunity of
learning something of the practical working of
this system, I have had an actual experience in
it for the last 28 years. And have been inti-
mately acquainted with a great many families
where the plural order of marriage was prac-
ticed, and I have never seen or heard of any of
these occurances mentioned by this woman
writer. On the contrary there is more hap-
piness in a well regulated patriarchal family,
where all have a proper regard for each other's
rights. There is a source of joy and happiness
and satisfaction, in the certainty that we are
obeying direct commands from heaven; that
nothing else can give. And when the Congress
of the Nation go so far in their head-strong
zeal as to make plurality of wives a target, it
shows their folly and ignorance of the motives
that prompt us: they perhaps judge us from
their own standard of morals. They do not
seem to understand that they are measuring
arms with the Almighty God of heaven. The
Lord has commanded and we have obeyed.
And if we stand firmly and nobly to the prin-
ciples we have espoused, what power can move
us? As long as the Lord is on our side al-
though the whole world should be arrayed
against us, there is no cause for fear, for his
promises fail not. If we are true to our God
and our religion, and do our part, He
will certainly do his. Satan is getting despar-
ate for he knows his time is short, and the time
is near when He will reign whose right it is to
reign. Wickedness and corruption are spread-
ing with lightning rapidity, over the face of
the civilized world. And Utah is like the
oasis in the desert it is the only spot to be found
upon the earth where the people recognize the
right of the God of heaven to reveal his holy
will for the government of his people upon the
earth. All honor to those few honorable men
in Congress who had the loyalty and patri-
otism to stand up in the face of powerful opposi-
tion and advocate constitutional rights even for
the poor despised Mormons; their names will
be held in honorable remembrance by our
people throughout all time, for striving to oppose
a bill that was striking at the very root of Con-
stitional liberty.
	Have we not suffered enough in being driven
from our homes into the desert, that they must
still follow us and hunt us down as they do wild
savage beasts, who are not fit to dwell upon
this beautiful earth. Have we not a right to
the air we breathe? Or do they envy us that?
Let us stand firm and unflinching to the cause
we have espoused, for we do know that the
Everlasting Gospel has been again restored to
earth, from the heavens, and although the
wicked may rage and struggle to overthrow
this work, their plans will-be thwarted, and the
arm paralysed that fights against the people of
God. Our course is onward and upward, and
no power on earth can prevail against us if we
are faithful and trust in Him, who is mighty to
save, and Who will ere long come out in his
mighty wrath, against all those who raise their
puny arms to stay the progress of his work.
They will be crushed by the little stone; cut
out of the mountain without hands, which is
destined to roll until it shall fill the whole
earth, and all those who fight against God
will be, as the dream of a night vision, they
will all disappear before the radiant light and
glory of God.					SARAH M.


THE married woman's property bill has passed
two readings in the House of Lords, England.


CORRESPONDENCE.

				EPHRAIM, MARCH 1882.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Dear Sister—After the close of the Legisla-
tive session, on the return of our brethren,
President Canute Petersen, and Counselor
Henry Beale, there was a social party in the
Sisters' Hall, in honor of the occasion, and as
many of the oldest settlers as could be com-
fortably accomodated were invited to partic-
ipate.
	We were also favored with the presence of
Sister M. A. Hyde, the County President of
the Relief Society. Bishop L. S. Anderson, of
the North Ward, Bishop C. C. N. Dorius, of
the South Ward, and their Counselors were
present. The music was excellent, the spirit of
peace and happiness seemed to fill every heart.
I wish you had been there to partake of the
pleasures and enjoyment that every-one seemed
to feel, surely we have reason to thank God
that his Holy Spirit can pervade the social
dance as well as the more serious meeting
of worship, the dance was opened and closed by
prayer, and all went home in peace and good
order at twelve o'clock. I must say the sisters
are united in all good works, and doing the
very best they can. With my best wishes for
your happiness, I subscribe myself respectfully
your Sister in the Gospel.
					AGNES S. ARMSTRONG.


THE FIERY DRAGON.

	A lowly child of heavenly birth smiled in
its innocence and purity. Truth dwelt in its
heart and many loved it: but as it grew and
increased in strength and power, the majority
hated it; and sent a fiery red dragon to destroy
it. Angels guarded it, and God Himself had
foretold it should not be destroyed. In vain
the fiery dragon tried to swallow the child, for
every attempt was foiled, and the object of his
wrath fled to the borders of civilization, hoping
to secure a safe retreat. For awhile the serene
maiden Peace waited upon it, but the dragon
followed, drove Peace away and tried again to
swallow her precious charge. God and his
angels came to the rescue. Once more the
bloody monster was baffled. The child fled to
the margin of a wide and placid river, and
found a resting place. Peace came again with
her blessings, and prosperity attended her foot-
steps. The growth of the child was fast. Not
many years passed away ere his bitter enemies
sought to put him to death. With cries of
treason they sent the Dragon to find him.
Again the child of truth was sought and rushed
upon fercely—his friends murdered and again
he fled; fled to the fastnesses of the mountains,
where none but Indians roamed the desolate
hills—the wolf sought his prey, and the
parched earth called for water. Under the
guidance of his hand gardens and farms, vil-
lages, and towns, cities and hamlets sprung up
as if by magic. The Indians became more
cizilized, flowers lifted up their heads and
breathed delicious perfume. Industries of
every description were fostered and the moun-
tains rang with the echoes of joy. Peace
settled with him. The very atmosphere told of
her presence. Grown to manhood was the
child, lovely as ever, wise and strong. His en-
emies are maddened and with cries of furious
rage send their messenger the dragon to swallow
him up. The throat of the dragon is too small.
He will choke himself before he can accomplish
the deed, and persecution will be glad to hide
himself in dismay. While the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints will continue to in-
crease in strength and power. The heaven
above is blessing it; invisible angels are around
it, the Lord himself smiles upon it, and what
is there to fear?		EMILY B. SPENCER.


172	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMANS EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms. One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine, Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY.	-	APRIL 15, 1882.


THE RIGHT TO ASSEMBLE.

	It is a fact very generally conceded that the
Latter-day Saints are a peculiar people. The
events which have transpired from time to time
in the history of the Church from its very com-
mencement, have also been of a peculiar charac-
ter. There is little need to recapitulate the try-
ing scenes through which this people have been
called to pass. Our readers and this great gov-
ernment are familiar with a generality of the
facts, and know how manfully the Saints have
struggled against accumulated difficulties of the
most aggravating kind. Congress has seen fit
to heed the popular clamor, and has passed pros-
criptive laws against this peculiar people, who
had thought themselves far enough away from
the great centres of civilization to live their pe-
culiar religion, and abide in peace and safety
"under their own vine and fig tree," having
periled their lives to find an asylum in the wil-
derness, and wrested the land from barrenness
and made it fruitful and desirable for the habita-
tions of men, and "for life, liberty and the pur-
suit of happiness," which they considered their
inalienable right as American citzens.
	The present peculiar position of this people
seems to demand the most careful and earnest
thought of every individual, and the best
and most intelligent expression of the same
in the most impressive manner, to represent
the whole body of the people. The Consti-
tution of the United States guarantees to all, the
right peaceably to assemble and petition the
government for redress of frievances; it also
gives to the people of all Territories the right to
f[-]ame a Constitution and apply for admission into
the Union of States. The very best method of
getting an expression of the sentiments of
a whole people is by means of a Convention.
The people in the several counties elect their
own delegate[-], those whom they desire to have
represent them, and those whom they consider
capable of doing so, with due reference to judg-
ment and ability.
	THe enemies of this people have spoken long
and loud, by means of the pulpit and the press.
Congress has hearkened and heard, and in an-
swer to thier pressing and overwhelming torrent
of entreaty, has decided to enforce such legis-
lation as seems to a free born citizen unjust and
oppressive.	In view of this, and of positive
knowledge of the numerical strength of Utah to
admit of its becoming a State, is it anything
strange or wonderful that the people should look
upon it as their right to meet in convention and
frame a Constitution, with a view that Con-
gress may give the matter due consideration
when the facts are presented before them? And
even though admission were denied, the people
will have the satis[-]action of knowing that the
effort has been made, and it will stand forever to
their credit. It is the privilege of all people to
xercise their rights in harmony with the laws


of the country in which they reside, and there
are no people under the sun more loyal to the
Constitution of their country, none who adore
with greater reverence the stars and stripes, than
the Latter-day Saints. And they have no need
to fear. God is at the helm, and there are still
many honorable and wise men in the land, who
desire to see the laws of the country righteously
administered, and who will not sanction oppres-
sion, and injustice to the weak and defenceless.
This people, as well, as this great nation, are in
the hands of Him who notes even the fall of the
sparrow.


CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION.

	According to appointment and pursuant to a
joint resolution of the last Legislative Assembly
of Utah Territory, a Constitutional Convention
convened in the City Hall in this city on Mon-
day, April 10, at 12 m. A temporary organiza-
tion was formed, Daniel H. Wells, Chairman,
and Arthur Stayner, Secretary. Such business
as pertained to a temporary organization was
done, and a permanent organization effected.
President of the Convention, Joseph F. Smith;
Vice Presidents, L. E. Harrington and Edward
Dalton; Secretary, Arthur Stayner; Assistant
Secretaries, Junius F. Wells, Elmina S. Taylor
and Lyman Martineau; Chaplain, W. W. Cluff;
Sergeant at Arms, B. Y. Hampton; Messenger,
Milando Pratt. The Convention consists of
seventy-two delegates, sixty-nine gentlemen
and three ladies. Salt Lake County elected as
delegates twelve gentlemen and three ladies—
Mesdames E. B. Wells, S. M. Kimball and E.
Howard; also as alternate, Mrs. E. S. Taylor.
	On the second day it was decided that there
should be thirteen committees, to whom the
work should be assigned of reporting the several
articles which should be considered the ground
work of the proposed Constitution.
	The Articles are arranged in the following
manner: On Ordinance and Bill of Rights; On
Legislative Department; On Executive Depart-
ment;On Judiciary; On Municipal and other Cor-
porations; On Finance and State Debt; On Ed-
ucation; On Militia; On Taxation; On Impeach-
ment and Removal from Office; On Public In-
stitutions; On Boundaries; Miscellaneous Pro-
visions and Amendments; On Schedule and
Election Ordinance.
	It was decided by vote that the Chair should
appoint the several Committees.
	Third day the names of the Committees were
submitted and voted upon, and a Committee,
consisting of the Chairmen of the several Com-
mittees, was constituted a Committee on revi-
sion and consolidation, to which all reports
should be referred for compilation. It was also
decided by vote that several legal gentlemen,
members of the Convention, should be added to
this Committee, that there might be the best
legal talent at hand to aid in the work.
	On the fourth day some of the Committees
made a full report, and these were referred to
the Revision Committee, and others reported
progress.
	The fifth day all the remainder of the reports
were handed in and referred to the Committee
on Revision, and the Convention adjourned un-
til Wednesday, April 19, at two o'clock p. m.,
when it is expected the Compilation Committee
will make a final report to the Convention.


APRIL CONFERENCE.

	The Annual Conference of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints commenced
on Thursday, April sixth, at 10 o'clock a. m., in
the Tabernacle, in this city, President John Tay-
lor presiding. The Conference continued regu-


lar meetings twice a day, at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m.,
and closed on Sunday afternoon, April 9. The
attendance was very large, notwithstanding the
weather during a greater part of the time, was
very stormy and disagreeable. People from all
parts of the country came in to attend Confer-
ence, and the streets presented an unusually
busy appearance, even for Conference time.
	The instruction given by those who spoke to
the people during the entire four days, was cal-
culated to encourage the Saints to persevere in
well doing, and if possible endeavor to reach a
higher standard of excellence in the practice of
the principles of the holy religion which they
had embraced. The people were counseled to
fear God and keep his commandments, to remain
true and faithful to their integrity, and manifest
a spirit of peace and good will towards all man-
kind.
	There were present on the stand Presidents
John Taylor and Joseph F. Smith, Apostles
Wilford Woodruff, Lorenzo Snow, Erastus Snow,
Franklin D. Richards, Brigham Young, Moses
Thatcher, F. M. Lyman, John Henry Smith
and Coun. D. H. Wells, Presiding Bishop Ed-
ward Hunter, Patriarch John Smith, and some
of the Seven Presidents of Seventies, among
them Jacob Gates, of St. George. The Presi-
dency of this Stake of Zion were in their accus-
tomed places.
	The meeting on Sunday was perhaps as nu-
merously attended as any Conference of the
Church has ever been, the house being densely
packed, and many hundreds having to go away
who could not find seats nor comfortable stand-
ing room. The music and singing on each day
were excellent, the solos by Miss Laura Nebe-
ker and Miss Agnes Olsen exceedingly well ren-
dered. Prest. Taylor, occupied the time in the
afternoon, Sunday, and during the service the
people followed Prest. Taylor in three ringing
Hosannas and Glory to God and the Lamb for
ever and ever. Amen. It was a time long to
be remembered by all present.
	Sunday evening a meeting of the Y. M. M. I.
A. was held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall;
the Y. L. M. I. A. was also represented. Prest.
W. Woodruff presided. Several of the Stake
Superintendents from the different counties re-
ported the condition of the Young Men's Asso-
ciations in their respective localities. Sister
Nancy A. Clark represented the Y. L. M. I. A.
of Davis Stake, Sister Cluff the Y. L. M. I. A.
of Utah Stake, Miss Mattie Horne, of the Cen-
tral organization, represented the Y. L. M. I. A.
of Salt Lake Stake. Elmina S. Taylor, Presi-
dent of the Central Board of Y. L. M. I. A.,
made a few interesting remarks upon the bene-
fit of these organizations. Prest. Joseph F.
Smith spoke a short time, alluding to the sub-
ject of buying from our friends, and so forth.
	Elder Junius F. Wells urged the necessity of
a uniform system of roll books for the use of the
Associations.
	The meeting was a very business like and satis-
tactory one. Reports show that the Associations
are in excellent condition of progress.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	A LOVELY bouquet of early Spring violets, the
gift of Mrs. Sarah Sears, (whom we most sin-
cerely thank.) are upon our table, the fragrance
of which fills the room. 

Fair violets! whose carly bloom
	Gladdens the weary heart;
Their beauty and their perfume
	Pleasure and joy impart.
They blossom lowly at our feet,
In modest grace and fragrance sweet.

	"UTAH AND ITS PEOPLE."—This little pam-
phet has been recently published in New York


City. The editor is a fair-minded, large-hearted
Gentile, an ex-United States official; one who
thinks, judging from his writings, Mormons have
rights, and who has taken pains to ascertain facts
and statistics, and he presents them to the people
in a candid, straight-forward manner. The
author enters somewhat into detail, and his
points are made clear, and proof given of cir-
cumstances as they actually exist. It is perhaps
at fairly written as any book could be by a non-
Mormon.

	"THE Goese of Ganderica" is a little work hu-
morously, written and quizzically satirical in
style. Some little boys might admire its inge-
nuity, without knowing its broad and compre-
hensive meaning and its relation to the "Mor-
mon Question" or the Utah problem. After all
there might be more in it than its size or ele-
gance of composition would indicate; but how
are we to know unless we read it? and

"As a little nonsense now and then,
Is relished by the best of men,"

the best thing to do is to buy the book and judge
for one's self. Ten cents is only a trifle, and it
may elucidate the Utah problem.
	DR. Ellen B. Ferguson has opened her office
in the Hardy building, upstairs, opposite Z. C.
M. I., where she will be pleased to see her friends
and patrons. Having devoted the past winter
to the practical study of the best methods of
treatment of Diseases of Women, and Diseases
of the Nose, Throat and Lungs, advocated and
practised by the most eminent surgeons and spe-
cialists in the Hospitals of New York, she is pre-
pared to give particular attention to these dis-
eases, and attend to all other matters pertaining
to her profession Sisters in the settlements de-
siring to study midwifery, in order to qualify
themselves to act in their respective localities,
can have an opportunity of doing so as soon as a
sufficient number are ready to form a class.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 173


BIRTHDAY REUNION.

	On Tuesday, the 11th inst., a number of rela-
tives and friends of the respected veteran,
Father Pierce, met at the residence of his
daughter, Sister E. E. Fisher, in East Mill
Creek Ward, to celebrate his eighty-fifth birth-
day. Among them were his daughter, Mrs. M.
P. Young, Elder Julian Moses and wife, it being
the anniversary of his birth also, though a
much younger man. There were several choice
presents made to Father Pierce, who seemed
truly delighted with the honor shown him and
the blessings of his friends, it being a complete
surprise to him.
	Father Pierce is an old and faithful Saint,
having gathered with this people at Nauvoo, in
1840. He has passed through drivings and tribu-
lations with them. He came to Utah in 1847,
enduring uncomplainingly all the privations of
the Saints in those early days. He has ever
proved himself worthy the love and confidence
of the Saints. At 2 p. m. the company sat
down to an elegant dinner, after which a few
hours were spent pleasantly in lively conversa-
tion, when the company dispersed, feeling they
had truly enjoyed the happy occasion, and
thankful for the privilege of joining to give
honor to one of the aged veterans in Israel.
									M. F.


FULFILMENT OF PROPHECY.

	I thought I would like to make a few remarks
through your valuable paper, for it seems as if all
the nations of the earth are arrayed against this
people; well it is what our Savior spoke of, He
said, "blessed are ye when people speak all
manner of evil of you;" So it is only fulfilling


the words of the Savior. We are told that we
have got to be a tried people, as gold seven times
purified through the fire. And another of the
ancient prophets has told us that the judgments
of the Lord have to commence at the house of
the Lord first; so we must look for it. The Lord
may let our enemies persecute us a little, and
when He sees they have done enough, He will
come out of his hiding place, and smite them as
with the besom of destruction; all the noise is
about our peculiar marital relations. Well they
must have something to fly at. I can say that
I am in that order of marriage and I thank my
heavenly Father that He ever gave me the priv-
ilege, to be counted worthy to embrace that
pure and holy principle; for I do know it is from
God, and I would not give it up for all the riches
in the world. My dear sisters, let us hold on to
that true and holy principle. I do not fear the
scoffs and frowns of a dark and benighted world.
I look for something more glorious and more
bright. As it is now, it was when the Jews
crucified our Savior,; He prayed for them, He
said, "Father forgive them for they know not
what they do," so we Latter-day Saints can pity
them for they know not what they do, when
they try to persecute this people.
	It looks as if the day was not far distant when
the prophecies of the Prophet Micah, will be ful-
filled, he states there in the 4 chapter 1st verse,
"But in the last days it shall come to pass that
the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be
established in the top of the mountains, and it
shall be exalted above the hills,and all people shall
flow unto it, and many nations shall come, and
say, come let us go up to the mountain of the Lord,
and to the house of the God of Jacob, and he
will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in
his paths, for the law shall go forth out of Zion,and
the word of the Lord from Jerusalem." Well
my dear sisters, we are in the hands of the Lord
and so are they, if we are true to our religion
they cannot harm us; the Lord will take care of
his Saints. I pray God to bless all Israel.
					FRANCES B. HART.


[Column 1]
DANIEL IN THE LION'S DEN.
NOT A CITIZEN BUT A WOMAN.

	I see by the latest news from the Capital
that senators and representatives have even re-
sorted to the most palpable falsehoods in order to
deprive Mr. Cannon of his seat in Congress, now
as for the misrepresentations of priests and peo-
ple who make a business of lying for money, we
could not waste time and paper in refuting their
many false statements relative to Mormon peo-
ple; but when a man representing a whole state,
elected to Congress by his constituents will get
up before the eyes of all nations and misrepre-
sent a people because it is popular, when that
people can prove that those false statements
made and published to the world are based upon
prejudice and misrepresentation, I think it is
time the sons and daughters of the patriot
fathers were investigating such matters. But,
says the lordly senator who are you, what do
you know about Mr. Cannon?
	I am a daughter of the Veteran Fathers! the
blood of freedom courses through my veins; I
am a legal heir to all the rights guaranteed by
the Constitution of our once free and happy
country, therefore I am not afraid to speak when
I see those sacred rights trampled upon by un-
principled representatives and let those who
are ignorant of the facts, know that "He that
judgeth a matter without hearing it" is what
the wise man Solomon calls a fool. My Brother
Thomas L. Greer who was wounded in the war
with Mexico and never received his pension be-
cause of his identity with the Mormon Church,
(which is the true Church of Christ) received

[Column 2]
from the officers of the War department in
Washington a copy of the honorable discharge
of our grandfather John Greer, who fought for
the liberty we claimed in the days of the im-
mortal Washington.
	The writer of this article, lived neighbor to
Mr. Cannon for twenty-five years, and testifies
that he is an honorable man, a man that walks
uprightly before God, and if she had ten votes
would rather give them to sustain him than to
give one to elect a man to that high and sacred
responsibility who had no regard for honor nor
for virtue; who can be bought and sold for hire,
who seeks to blind the eyes of his constituents,
and persecute the innocent and oppressed for
the sake of popularity, when he knows it is
wrong. The Mormon Prophet, Joseph Smith,
said if the United States Government consented
to the shedding of his blood and mobbing and
driving the Saints from Missouri that they would
have mobs to their hearts content. They have
done this, and since he was martyred, there has
not only been a devastating war, causing untold
sorrow to human hearts, commencing at South
Carolina according to his prediction, but two
Presidents have been martyred a thing never
known before, in the history of the American
Nation until the administrators of the Govern-
ment refused to protect the people called Mor-
mons in their Constitutional rights. Now let
these law-makers deny Mr. Cannon his seat in
Congress for no other cause but his religious be-
lief: then down, down goes the government.
God withdraws his aid, and they cannot hold to-
gether because the principles of dissolution are
planted in the heart of the Nation. I venture
to say if Gen. Washington should appear in the
Halls of Congress to-day and say, let him that
is without fault cast the first stone at Delegate
Cannon, he would be left alone to maintain that
most sacred and heaven-born instrument the
Constitution or Declaration of Independence. If
such a bill as that of Senator Edmund's becomes
a law to disfranchise the citizens of Utah
we would say take down the standard of liberty
no longer call this a Republican Government, fold
up the flag of our beloved country that so proudly
waved over the land and sea to beckon all
nations to come to the "land of the free," and
let that sacred emblem, the Goddess of Liberty,
hide or bow her head in shame and bathe her
cheeks in tears for the unjust administration of
her country's laws, and the cruelty of its wrongs.
				E PLURIBUS UNUM.
	Arizona.


IN MEMORIAM.

	WILLIAMS,—In Provo, on Sunday morning,
March 12, 1882, of pleura pneumonia, Eliza
Helen, wife of Nathaniel Williams, and daughter
of Wm. M. and Nancy Wall; aged 38 years, 5
months, and 16 days.
	Deceased leaves a husband, seven children and
many relatives to mourn her departure. She
was a devoted wife and mother, was a promin-
ent member of the Fourth Ward Relief Society,
and always foremost in ministering to the neces-
sities of the afflicted and needy. She died as
she had lived, a faithful Latter-day Saint, with
an unshaken faith in a glorious resurrection.
	The funeral services were held in the Provo
Meeting House, and a large cortege followed the
remains to the cemetery.
	AT grantsville, Rachel Stailey; wife of James
Worthington, in her 79th year, her death was
caused by falling on the ice, breaking her thigh
and injuring her spine; she lived six weeks after
her fall, in great suffering.
	Deceased was born October 4th, 1803, in
Franklin County, Pennsylvania; joined the
Church in Beaver County, Penn., under the


preaching of Bro. Orson Pratt, in 1836; passed
through the mobbings of Missouri and Illinois,
and gathered with the Saints. Her husband
and herself were among the first settlers of
Grantsville. She died February 24th 1882; she
lived and died a faithful Latter-day Saint, was
the mother of 8 children, 5 of whom are living,33
grand-children and 2 great-grand-children.


174 WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS:

SNOWFLAKE ARIZONA.

	The first Quarterly Conference of the East
Arizona Stake, of the Relief Society, Y. L. M.
I. A., and Primary Associations, was held at
Snowflake Sep. 23rd, 1881. President Wil-
mirth East presiding. On the stand were Pres-
ident Jesse N. Smith, Bp. John Hunt, Jesse N.
Perkins, Br. Fitchen, and others. W. East
gave quite an interesting report of her visit
throughout the Stake, in the interest of the R.
S. and Primary organizations; spoke of the
death of Counselor Kartchner, and gave many
testimonies of her faithfulness as a Counselor,
not only the R. S. of this place, but also in
Pangnitch; and at President Smith's sugges-
tion the vacancy was filled by Mrs. Ellen Lar-
sen.
	Sister Elizebeth Hawkins Prest. of the P. A.
said, the most important duty was, the training
of our children, teaching them to pray, and to
get up and bear their testimony while they
were young.
	President Smith also made some very en-
couraging remarks, acknowledging the labors
of the sisters, and was pleased to have these
Stake organizations effected. He then set
apart the presiding board of the P. A., which
had previously been unanimously sustained, at
the Quarterly Conference June 26th. Reports
of all the Associations were encouraging, the
Stake and local officers were presented and
sustained.
	Conference adjourned to the 23rd, of Dec., to
meet at this place.
	Minutes of the second Quarterly Conference
of Eastern Arizona Stake, of the R. S. and Y.
L. M. I. A., and Primary held at Snowflake
Dec. 23rd 1881. W. East presiding.
	Minuets of previous Conference read and ac-
cepted. The organiztions of this Stake, nine
branches of Relief Society, five Y. L. M. I. and
Primary Associations, were doing well. W.
East said: the duty of officers is to lead out and
set an example before the organizations that
they may be awake to their duties. If the sis-
ters will step forth and fill their positions, God
will help them; don't say that you are not
qualified, God will qualify you,
	Apostle E. Snow said, when the brethren are
called by the Priesthood to fill positions, if they
neglect to magnify their calling, and seek the
Lord for the spirit of their office, that spirit
will rest upon another;" and this will apply to
you my sisters, History fails to give an ac-
count of the organization of women, until re-
vealed in this dispensation by Joseph Smith.
Of a truth we can sing "We thank Thee O God
for a Prophet." Counselor Ruth Rogers was
called upon to give a verbal report, said, she
had attended most of the meetings; had counted
as many as fifty-six at the P. A., and thought
the President and Counselors of this Ward de-
served praise. Hoped there was not a family
that did not teach their children to pray. The
first principle that we should teach them
was, that they have a Father in Heaven; that
will hear and answer their prayers. Stake
Pres. of the Y. L. Ida Hunt, desired to have
the spirit of her calling, judging from the re-
ports the Associations were in a flourishing con-
dition; was glad they had never refused when
called upon. The officers of the different or-

[Column 2]
ganizations were sustained. Adjourned until
2 P. M.
	Afternoon session commenced by the usual
services of singing and prayer, after which W.
East said, there was one item she wished to pre-
sent before the conference, that was sending for
the "Questions and Answers," published by
Sister E. R. Snow Smith, in the interest of the
Primary organizations. Ida Hunt then read
from the EXPONENT the financial and statistical
report read at the October conference of 1881,
showing what had been accomplished by the
Y. L. M. I. A.
	W. East continued, you can see by this re-
port what can be done by the sisters; thanked
the brethren for having assisted in the erection
of the Society Hall, the first one built by the
Relief Society in Arizona.
	President Smith said; I realize from the re-
port that has been read, that the R. S. is be-
coming a power in the land; must confess that
the statistics were a little suprising, felt that
the R. S., were in good hands; desired the
brethren and sisters that could, would write
for the Instructor: appealed to the sisters to
assist in establishing a system of refinement
and good manners especially in the ball-room,
was opposed to round dancing and hoped they
would not indulge in it. Sister East recom-
mended that we sustain the counsel given by
Prest. Smith. Conference adjourned to meet
at St. John's March 24th, 1882.
	A general invitation was then given to meet
at the Society Hall in the evening at 7 o'clock,
to celebrate the Prophet's birthday. The
house was well filled; after the usual exercises
of singing and prayer, President Jesse N.
Smith, made a few interesting remarks, then
called for those who knew the Prophet while
living, among whom were S. H. Rogers, Bp.
Nobles, Bp. Owens, John Oakly, Nathan Ten-
ny, and others who are living witnesses and
who testified to the divinity of his mission, and
the great work that had been accomplished
through his instrumentality and of the bless-
ings we enjoyed through obedience to the same.
Wilmirth East, President; Lorana P. Rogers,
Sec'y. P. A. Eastren Arizona.


[Column 1]
UTAH STAKE PRIMARY CONFERENCE.

	Minutes of the Primary Conference held in
Provo March 2nd, 1882. Meeting called to
order by President Zina Y. Williams, singing
by the children, and prayer offered by Anna
K. Smoot. The minutes of the previous meet-
ing were then read and approved. After
which the President expressed her delight in
seeing so many laboring for the advancement
of the children; and instructed the Presidents
how to report.
	Verbal reports were received from teh follow-
ing: Mary Farrer, First Ward, Provo, Sarah
Goodman Second Second Ward, Hester Beebee, Third
Ward, Mrs. Snyder, Fonrth Ward; Hannah
Huntington, Fifth Ward, Springville, Sister
Williams, First Ward Springville; Sister Fraser,
Santaquin; Sister Felt, Pleasant Grove; Sister Davis,
Lehi; Sister Booth, Alpine: Sister Wilcox,
Cedar Fort; Sister Snyder, Fairfield.
	The President had been well pleased in hear-
ing as favorable reports from the various so-
cieties.
	The meeting was then given over to Sister
Louie Felt, who desired to hear from the child-
ren. Questions from the Bible Questions and
Answers were answered by the children of the
First Ward, Provo; a song from Miss Jones,
Second Ward, and recitations from Emma
Johnson, Lydia Wilson, Ervin Pratt and By-
ron Doolin Third Ward; Lizzie Chesly, of the
Fourth Ward answered questions from the Bible
Catechism. President Louie Felt related in-
stances where children had exercised great

[Column 2]
faith in God; and had aided missionaries by
their prayers and pocket money, claiming the
blessings of God for so doing. Prayed that
their Heavenly Father would bless them and
keep their minds pure from evil influences.
Hoped they would never forget to pray.
	Sister Mary Freeze spoke of the injurious
effect of tea and coffee. Wished the children
to obey their parents, presidents and teachers,
that they might learn principles of mortality
and virtue.
	Sister Elmina S. Taylor had been exceed-
ingly well pleased in seeing the bright children
and hearing the songs, recitations and ques-
tions answered. Prayed God to bless the
children; and their President, Zina Y. Wil-
liams as well as those who were laboring in dif-
ferent parts of the County. Asked them to
remember the instructions given.
	Singing, "Joseph's First Prayer." Benedic-
tion by Presendia Kimball.
			SARAH E. CLUFF, Stake Sec'y

RIVERDALE.

	The Relief Society of Riverdale met at the
residence of Brother W. G. Childs according
to an appointment to hold meeting at 10
o'clock A. M. Bishop Sanford Bingham,
Counselor Wm. Stimpson and several of the
brethren were present. Meeting called to or-
der by President M. A. Bingham. Singing
"Come let us anew," prayer by Bro. Hunter,
singing "Oh say what is truth." Minutes of
previous meeting read and approved, also our
yearly report. The district was then reported
the majority of the people feeling well, some
sickness among the children. President M.
A. Bingham, Counselors Edna Stimpson and
Nancy Bybee; each spoke of the goodness of
God to us, gave us good counsel and words of
encouragement to all present.
	Bishop S. Bingham exhorted the Sisters to
be united, to be faithful, to the work they were
engaged in, be careful to instruct their child-
ren in the right way, and not speak against any
principles that had been revealed through the
servants of God, bore testimony to the prin-
ciples of Celestial Marriage, said it was a true
principle from the Lord. Bro. Hunter, Coun-
selor Wm. Stimpson and Bro. Dye, all felt well
in meeting with the sisters; bore testimony to
the truth of this being the work of God we are
engaged in, said Celestial Marriage, and all the
principles revealed to the Prophet Joseph were
from our Heavenly Father. Advised the sis-
ters to be united and persevere in doing good.
	Sister Hansen, of Plain City, spoke of her
experience in this Church in a very intersting
manner, also in a kindly and sympathetic way
towards our young folks, believed they would
stand true to the faith of their parents. Meet-
ing closed by singing "Oh My Father"
Benediction by Bishop S. Bingham.
	After meeting a bountiful supper was partak-
en of by over 30 elderly bretheren and sisters
and some young people, and children. A so-
cial chat followed and some songs to enliven
the time, all present feeling we had an extra
good time, hoping that we would through the
blessing of God be able to have many more
such parties. We have some good sisters in
Riverdale, our worthy President her Coun-
selors, Secretary and Treasurer, are all good
women who try to do their duty, attend to the
sick, and the wants of the poor. We unitedly
pray for the welfare of Zion, the EXPONENT, is
a welcome visitor in this our little settlement.
						MARY M. DYE.

SPRINGVILLE PRIMARY.

	Conjoint Meeting held at the meeting house,
March 18th 1882, for the purpose of receiving


instructions from Sisters, Presendia Kimball
and Zina D. H. Young. President Hannah
Huntington presiding. Singing by the child-
ren, "Gather them into the fold." Sister Zina
said, I am well pleased to see so many smiling
faces before me, I have traveled a great dis-
tance since I saw you last, I saw a great many
fine looking children, they were dressed very
nice, but they were not clothed with the Spirit
of God, as these dear children are before me.
Those children do not know of the true and
living God as you do, nor do they enjoy his
blessings. I visited a blind assylum; in one
room I saw a number of young girls learning
to do fancy work, in another room were boys
busy studying their books which have raised
letters, they were all blind but apparently hap-
py. Now little children how thankful you all
ought to be, for your eye-sight. . Dear children
learn to be courteous and kind toward one an-
other, treat elderly people with great respect.
If you wish to become great men and women
and please your Heavenly Father, you must do
as near right as you can; do not use tobacco
tea or coffee. But above all honor and obey
your parents, and God will bless all of you.
As my sister and I are called away to Provo
our visit will be short with you to-day. But I
feel to say God bless you all.
	Sister Kimball addressed us on educating
our minds with the principles of the Gospel.
Boys I exhort you not to use tobacco, for the
word of God tells us, it is not for man; if you
want to be pure and white, drink neither tea
nor coffee. Children be kind and loving to-
ward all, especially the aged, you will then be
prepared to take our places, for we will soon
pass away. Be faithful and you will live to
see the coming of the Son of God, if you have
faith you will stand in that day and help to
build up his kingdom. Honor and obey your
parents, and teachers, that you may be pure
for the pure will be saved, when the wicked
shall be destroyed. God bless you all and
preserve you from harm and danger is my
prayer.
	Sister Zina then exhorted the children to be
industrious and learn to do all kinds of work,
that they might be useful men and women, said
be neat and orderly, in all you do for there is
order in the house of our heavenly Father. I
have a petticoat to show you that my grand-
mother spun, wove and made for my mother
when she was a baby, it is ninety-six years
old.
	Children if some of you are clothed better
than.others do not make fun or despise them,
but do all you can for their good. Love to do
good at all times. God bless you all.
	Brother Kelsey felt to endorse all the sisters
had said, Singing by the children "Joseph
Smith's First Prayer." Benediction by Wm.
H. Kelsey.	MARTHA J. REYNOLDS, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 175


THE Massachusetts House Committee on
woman's suffrage, recently reported a bill
allowing woman to vote for Presidential
electors.—Ex.

	MRS. Matilda Joslyn Gage informs us, that
Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton sails for Europe
soon. Mrs. Stanton has a son in Paris and will
doubtless join him there. We sincerely wish
her a pleasant voyage.

	THE state convention of the New York Wo-
man Suffrage Assocsation was held in Utica,on
the 9th, and 10th of March. It was a very en-
thusiastic meeting, and the four sessions were
well attended. Speeches were made by Dr.
Clemence Lozier, of New York, Mary S.
Howell, Mrs. Lillie D. Blake, Mrs. Matilda
Joslyn Gage, Dr. Harriet V. Chapin, Mrs. Car-
oline Rogers, and others. A County Commit-
tee was formed by the ladies of Utica and
other towns for the county of Oneida.—Ex.


[Column 1]
SOCIETY IN THE EAST.

	Although I am not authorised to publish this
letter written to me by an old friend and play-
mate who is still living in the East,yet it shows
up life in "Christian" Monogamy in so true a
light that I can not refrain, though for her sake
the names are withheld.
						"March 5th. 1882.
"DEAR HELEN:
	"Your last letter bears the date Jan. 20th
1881 and is yet unanswered. I have had the
disposition to write you many times, but I am
a woman of cares and sorrow, and am possessed
of so little strength to do that I am compelled
to spend my hours waiting, "only waiting" for
rest, but in vain. I think of you often in these
days when the Polygamy problem is before the
people. What will result from it all, who can
tell ?
	"I think all these problems that come up help
to move the world. But dear me I see so
much to deplore in society here, that I oft feel
sick at heart, and ashamed of the perversity of
human nature. What the remedy is or should
be I am not competent to decide. But right
here there is plenty of "marital infidelity" and
accompanied with hypocrisy and lying to a
powerful extent. With me lying is "the sum
of all villainies." "Dare to be true, nothing can
need a lie, the fault that needs it most grows
two thereby."
	"Your son Orson said here that the only
argument against Polygamy was jealousy, and
believe me women suffer here more from that
cause. And it does seem to me that if monog-
amy marriage is or should be set aside for a rule,
and more liberty given in the social relations of
men and women, yet for those who have placed
themselves under vows of constancy each to the
other, that such should be true to their vows,
unless they get the consent of each other to
deviate therefrom.
	"I will give a little of our family trouble.
My brother married a girl in P——16 years
ago. For some six years there have been some
who have judged her to be false to him. He
has fought it bravely, and suffered much for
her sake, because he believed her innocent;
but the past few weeks here demonstrated be-
yond a doubt her wickedness, I say wickedness
for she has constantly avowed her innocence,
and has poured into my cars the story of her
wrongs, and she had such an air of injured in-
nocence and told her story so well, that I was
fooled, and I have never been called credulous,
but guess I have been. When the facts were
made known to me and I was obliged to yield,
I groaned and wept aloud. Such a long line
of hypocrisy and lying,sinks into insignificance
the adulterous connection. But say they, "the
lying always accompanies the adultery and is
always regarded the lesser crime." But, I
should be an honorable exception and would
shame the devil once, by owning the truth,
rather than lose my self-respect by lying.
Brother has a bill of divorce with the custody
of the children, two girls one thirteen and one
six, bright girls. There was no publicity given
to the affair as she did not contest, and he gave
her more money. Judge said it was a clear
case. She is in P——now and he is in
M.——*		*		*		*		*		*		*
	"I've been to church to-day,*	*	*	I hear
very little to satisfy, but think it better on the
whole than not to go out at all. Brother M—
was here this winter and read your letter; said
he did wish he could go to Utah. It will not
be strange if he does some time. I wish he
could meet Orson. When do you expect him
home?
	"I have received the papers you have sent,
and often see articles I wish you had; but you
are very well posted I see. It will not be very
strange if there is trouble here enough to dis-

[Column 2]
tract the nation from all thoughts of Polygamy.
This Conkling appointment seems too much of
a dose for Republicans. Men are treacherous
and selfish. Who can be trusted?	*	*	*
I have little faith in an overruling power and
am no spiritualist. I can easily understand
why you and I think so differently. My hope
is as good as the best. I entertain no fears."
	In her last letter before this she mentioned a
similar case in a respectable family there,whom
we were well acquainted with, though they
were not members of our church. Her parents
and my own were great friends and were
among the first who received this Gospel.
They were worth considerable property and
were among those who first became disaffected
and fell away. They joined the church called
Josephites some years ago and their daughter
who wrote this letter has seen so little of the
spirit of Christianity in them, or any other sect
professing it that she has lost all faith in an
overruling power. When a little girl she had
a severe attack of fever caused by taking cold
which left her a wretched invalid for life. We
have corresponded for years and in previous
letters she has made me acquainted with many
things, that prove to me how little happiness
there is enjoyed by those who have once pos-
sessed and then lost the light of this Gospel.
In the letter which she refers to I spoke most
plainly upon this subject and told her how
great and terrible would be the punishment of
parents who had led their children away from
the only true path, when they should meet them
before the Bar of God to give an account of
their deeds done here in the body, I told her
that she would then know (if not before) that
these things were true. I felt impressed to
speak these words though I did not know ex-
actly how she would receive them; and I con-
fess that I was surprised to hear that one of her
brothers after reading it had expressed such a
desire to come to Utah. But Latter-day
Saints can afford to be bold and fearless for
our weapon is truth and truth is mighty and will
prevail.					H. M. WHITNEY.


HINTS TO MOTHERS.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	Mother!—That name is so universal, that
the glory the grandeur and the mighty respon-
sibility of that sacred name is often forgotten!
It is a name next only to that of God!
	In the ritual of the Church of England in
the baptism of infants they have sponsors,
who are called god-fathers, and god-
mothers; and since I have seen a greater light
and comprehend a more perfect order I have
often pondered on those beautiful titles, and
felt there was a truth, and a principle in them,
not understood by those who used them; but
the sponsorship is a noble provision, and in
many instances, such have taken upon them-
selves to literally fulfill it to children be-
reaved of their parents. But the mother, and
her duties fill my thoughts at the present mo-
ment, and let it be borne in mind that I am not,
writing theoretically—but that which I gained
in a deep and practical school, commencing
when only eighteen years of age; I advance
nothing at any time, but what I know to be
verily true!
	The mission of the mother to bear—and still
more to rear children, is to those who realize
the responsibility, an almost overwhelming
novitiate and none can effectually accomplish
it, unless they seek for strength and ability
from the Father—God: To rear children that
shall be a blessing to themselves and all that
they are associated with, is indeed a mighty
achievement! Education must begin with the
mother; even in the ante-natal stage; yes I
believe this to be a most important school fo-


the unborn infant to pass through, and it will
exhibit its training from the earliest stages of
its, earth-life. It is astonishing what a creature,
of habit wc can make of an infant; if the
mother is regular and wise in her habits, the
tiny creature becomes the same, if a healthy
child; if she is the oposite of this, the child be-
comes restless and irritable. When only a few
months old, it will understand the tones of its
mother’s voice, and even the expression of her
face! If she is unhappy or irritable, or easily
excited, her child will become the same; if she
is happy and lively, the child will instantly
partake of the same blessed influence. In this
way commences the education of children; a
mother should constantly remember the end
from the beginning, and hence make a point
of never giving a child any thing it ought not
to have, merely to please it, or to keep it quiet,
Children are very easily pleased, if their tastes
are not early vitiated—how often we see hap-
piness destroyed through life by this early per-
version; a little child is just as pleased with a
rag-doll, nicely "fixed up" as with an expensive
one. Feeding and clothing children properly
would alone fill many sheets—health is often
deseroyed by want of wisdom in these matters,
in fact rearing children is a mighty volume that
we write in them for time, and probably for
eternity; a well educated young person, is a bless-
ing to the world!—let mothers work for etern-
ity in rearing their children, and, not bestrew
their young days with the gew-gaws of the age,
its fashions, and its nonsense, and their present
life will publish the fact. The heart, the brain,
the affection, the disposition, all must be cul-
tivated to form a character. Never buy the
good conduct of a child. It is a bad principle
to say if you will be good, or do this, or that, I
will give you a present—a new dress or some
other gift. Teach them that goodness and
obedience bring their own reward; offering
rewards is bribery and inculcates in
then a grasping craving, and imperative nat-
ure; and as they grow up they become
imperious; yet, let there be times for re-
warding; when a child has been good, and
obedient or helping mother nicely not expect-
ing reward, then let it come forth with loving
and approving words; then it will have a ben-
eficial influence, but never as wages, no never!
When a child says I will do so and so if you
will give me what I want, then is the moment
to teach it, that to be what God loves; we must
work on principle and assure them the reward
will come, certainly from our own conscience,
if in no other way, and that is the sweetest of
all rewards. for without it all others are taste-
less. Teach them to despise being either
bought or sold, and their good actions ever ac-
knowledged in a suitable way that shall edify,
and instruct or comfort and engender self-re-
spect . Kind and encouraging words to a well
trained child, are more beneficial than any
present. Rewards are proper for all—but the
way in which they are offered enhances the
gift, or may have an injurious effect. The
jewel if ever so costly, requires taste and tact
in the setting, or the intrinsic worth is not re-
alized. Dear mothers; young mothers, study
how to educate your children in the sweet
school Home, and in the future, you will reap
a rich reward, that will shed a mighty blessing
over the evening of your days, and will give a
peace and a satisfaction that no one can
take away. Hints are all I can at present
offer.


176 WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMEN were employed and commended as
compositors as early as 1481. The first notable
female printer was Charlotte Guillard, who was
in business for fifty years in the city of Psris.
This pioneer of feminine followers of Gutten-
berg was celebrated for the correctness of the
works issued from her press. She first entered
the typographical ranks in 1506.—Ex.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE IN BOMBAY.

	A correspondent of the Boston Woman's
Journal writes:—
	Now that a special effort is being made to
secure municipal suffrage for women in Massa-
chusets, it may interest you to know that wo-
men in Bombay, British India, already have a
right to vote for municipal officers.
	Four years ago, my landlord, a well known
Parsee gentleman, was a candidate for member
of the municipal corporation, from the Mazagon
ward. He appealed to my friends to use their
influence to persuade me to vote for him, and
finally sent his agent to me with the necessary
papers and the blanks filled out with my name.
The agent assured me that I only needed to re-
gister my name at the Mazagon police station,
in order to become a legal voter.
	On the day of polling, one Parsee lady pre-
sented herself at the police station to vote for
this gentleman; and in the Girgaum ward one
Hindoo lady voted for the Hindoo candidate of
that ward.
	This was noticed in the daily papers, but
apparently did not attract much attention. At
that time any person, male or female, paying
taxes on property, whether as owner, trustee, or
agent, was entitled to vote for municipal of-
ficers. Since then the law has been changed,
making any person who pays a municipal tax
a legal voter.
	At the last election, one year ago, several
Parsee and Hindoo ladies, one Mussulman, and
one European lady, voted in their respective
wards. Considerable attention was attracted
to this by the daily papers, and a certain
amount of interest manifested itself, so it is
likely that when the next election comes
around, two years hence, a large number of
ladies will present themselves as voters.—Ex.


SUSAN B. Anthony appeared March 28, be-
fore the woman suffrage committee of the U. S.
Senate, and argued in favor of granting the
ballot to women.

	THERE is no reason, in our judgment, why
women should not be allowed all the rights and
privileges of citizenship. but at present the law
does not recognize them as such—Christian
Union.
	"THE Governor of Massachusetts has named
Mrs. Robert C. Winthrop a member of the
Advisory Board on State institutions for wo-
men; Mrs. Henry F. Durant is a Commissioner
on Prisons; Mrs. Anna B. Richardson a Trustee
of the State Industrial School."

	"The first magizine in this country conducted
solely by women was the Lowell Offering. It
originated in an "Improvement Circle" in one of
the churches in Lowell, Mass. Operators in the
Lowell mills were its first editors, from 1842 to
1849. Its first motto was;

The worm on the earth
May look up to the star.

The articles were all written by factory girls,
and printed as written. Miss Lucy Larcom
was one of its frequent contributors.
	"The whole Lowell factory community in
1840 was filled with the idea of self culture and
a better education." But when foreign-born
operatives came in, and labor was cheapened,
the whole tone of factory society was changed,
and the Offering had to be abandoned. But it
was a marked power for good while it lasted."


[Column 1]
ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office on Main Street, over Hardy Bros., Store.

Special Study has been given to Surgery, Diseases
of Women, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS,

[Column 2]
AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK OF
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
CHILDREN'S FINE SHOES,
[-]bein the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

FOR SALE.

Home-Made SILK,
AT 
CUTLER'S COMMISSION STORE.

A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets, 	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels, 	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City, 
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STOVE, Nos. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Spring and Summer Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 10.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 1, 1882.	No. 23.


APOSTROPHE TO SPRING, 1882.

Fain would I woo thee! sweet gem of the year!
	But you meet me so cold that I'm chill
I remember the days when my eye, and my ear
	To thy voices would lovingly thrill!

When the flowers burst forth as a carpet beneath
	My feet as I sped o'er the earth!
When the violets, and primrose bedeck'd my loved hearth
	And it seemed earth received a new birth's

When the wild thyme arose in its ottoman form
	Speaking loud of Shaksperian rhymes,
When the kingcup, and pimpernell daily were born,
	Oh! were these not heavenly times?
When the nightingale sang her sweet vespers at eve,
	And the Blackbird and Thrush hail'd the morn
How I l[---]ning bent my charm'd ear to receive
	The music round shrub'ry and Lawn!

We feel that the granduer and beauty of earth
	Had received from the heavens a strain,
Of the glory and sweetness of heavenly mirth
	That inflated the heart, and the brain!—

It seemed to prepare us for heavenly joy
	As we bask'd in the beauty around,
It took from the earthly its needed alloy
	And made satisfaction abound;

O beautiful Nature! thou daughter of God!
	Well, well may we bend before thee!
Yet, oft in thy hand is a marvelous rod,
	Placed there by thy Maker's decree.

And the cold chilly Spring of the year eighty-two
	With its hailstorms, its cyclones and snow,
Is depressing—but yet we must still keep in view
	That we've blessings we'll never forgo.

Oh! let us be grateful for all we possess,
	And acknowledge the wisdom and care,
So richly provided, yes e'en to excess,
	And of which we've a bountiful share.

Then I'll take thee, sweet Spring of the year eighty-two,
	With thy chills, and thy smiles and thy tears,
For I know that the Sun to his earth will be true
	Tho', she lacks some sweet gifts of past years.

For 'twas said when the work of creation was young
	That the day and the night should not cease,
But continue their courses for all times to come,
	And their blessings should never decrease.

And the "lights" that were planted in glory above
	For "signs, and for seasons" should be—
And these acts of creation doth visibly prove
	Child of earth! they were planted for thee!

								HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City, April 21st 1881.


PEACE.

	"Be perfect, be of good comfort, be of one
mind, live in peace, and the God of peace will
be with you."
	So said St. Paul to the Saints in his day, but
I think it is applicable to the Saints today.
It almost seems as though storm clouds were
fast gathering, but let us as Saints "be perfect,"
then we shall have nothing to fear, for they
that are with us are more than they that are
against us; the Lord is on our side and He will
fight our battles for us, if we will only make
ourselves worthy of his protection and care.
To be worthy—to be perfect, we must subdue
the evil that is within us, correct every influence
that arises within our own hearts that is op-
posed to the sanctifying influence of the grace
of God; then may we "be of good comfort" for
we shall have the approval of our heavenly
Father. We must also "be of one mind" there
must be no jarring nor contention in our midst,


we must "live in peace" one with another, do-
ing unto others as we would have them do unto
us, and carry peace with us wherever we go. I
know that to be perfect, to be of one mind, to
live in peace one with another under all cir-
cumstances, we must be Saints indeed, for it
requires every wrong influence that is within
us as individuals to be subdued until every evil
desire is eradicated, and every feeling of our
hearts brought into entire subjection to the will
of Christ. We are professedly Saints and it
behooves us to strive to live as such and to know
and understand ourselves that we may order
our lives before Him, whom we acknowledge as
our Father and God in such a manner that we
shall not need his chastening hand.
	Brigham Young once said, that when we had
overcome every besetting sin within ourselves,
then we should be able to overcome every foe
without, and we should live and outlive all the
slander, prejudice and falsehoods that had been
heaped upon us. Sisters let us be alive to our
duties let us be prayerful, watchful and live
our religion day by day, then surely will peace
and the God of peace be with us.
								NELL.


TO MRS. EMILY SCOTT.

	I have no doubt that several of my "Mor-
mon" sisters will reply to your second honest,
sensible letter, as readily and candidly as they
did to your first. For my own part, I feel
much obliged to you for giving us an oppor-
tunity of speaking without feeling that we are
crowding our opinions unasked and undesired.
And I appreciate your friendliness in accepting
our testimonies as they are given, in all sincer-
ity of heart.
	Do not be offended with me for pitying your
"unbelief, skepticism or Ingersolism." It all
seems to me so unsatisfactory, especially when,in
my mind I compare it with the sweet faith, the
abiding hope, the perfect trust, the actual
knowledge which we as Latter-day Saints pos-
sess, in and of our Heavenly Father, his justice
mercy and loving kindness. How can we help
having faith when we repeatedly put the pro-
mises of the Lord to the test and have them
fulfilled to the very letter? By humbling our
selves—not to man—but before God, and seek-
ing to understand and be obedient to his laws,
we obtain the precious, priceless gift of his
spirit, by which we know for ourselves concern-
ing Him and his works. This brings us peace
and joy and satisfaction in all our duties, and
if we carefully follow its dictates, it will lead
us into all truth.
	Your very pointed and intelligent question,
"What is the belief of the Mormon Church,
and do you all have the same belief?" com-
prises so much that many pages might be ad-
vantageously filled in answering it. But we
have "Articles of Faith" printed on small cards
which will tell you in brief what our belief is.
Some of these cards shall be sent to you. We
have, like the ancient Church of Christ, "One
Lord, one faith, one baptism;" In our testi-
mony meetings, we all testify with one spirit,
of the goodness and power of "One God, and
Father of all." Whether we all speak or not,
we all understand alike and believe alike; and
the enjoyment of this Holy Spirit is what un-
ites our hearts and makes us regard each other
with the purest and most charitable feelings of
love and tenderness. I have said all, but


should say the great majority of our people are
thus actuated. There are and always have
been hypocrits, and we are not entirely free
from them.
	"Future rewards and punishments as I un-
derstand the subject, will be perfectly just and
right. Those who employ themselves in good
works here, will receive a corresponding reward
hereafter. And those who do wickedly will
reap what they merit, I am fully determined
to do all the good I can.
	Although far from perfection, yet our people
are diligently striving to reach a very exalted
degree of excellence; and the Lord helps us in
our weakness, often bestowing upon us what
seems to be supernatural strength and forti-
tude; and to Him belongs the praise and glory
if we do well.
		Very cheerfully yours,
				L. GREENE RICHARDS.


UNREPRESENTED WOMEN IN MAS
SACHUSETTS.

	In 1875, at the time of the last State census,
there were of all ages in the State—single fe-
males, 458,285; Widowed females, 73,527; div-
orced females, 1,847, making a grand total of
533,529, females of all ages unrepresented by
	There were 328,088 females both married
husbands.
and unmarried under twenty years of age. If
these be considered as all single, it will leave a
total of 204,541 females over twenty years of
age unrepresented by husbands. Of course a
small proportion of females under twenty were
not single, so that the total 204,541 will be a
somewhat less number than the true total.

WOMEN TEACHERS IN MASSACHUSETTS.

	Of teachers in 1879, in the public schools of
Massachusetts, there were: Males, 1,133
Females, 7,482; total, 8,615.
	Of the above, 494 were teachers in high
schools.
	The sexes are not indicated in the above
figures, but deducting male principals, about
200, most of the remainder were females, show-
ing a decided majority of female teachers in the
high schools also.—Ex.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE movement for the higher education of
women in England has been advanced another
stage by the action of the university of London,
the convocation of which, at a recent meeting,
decided to admit female graduates. This con-
cession follows logically after that which opened
the doors of the University to women. It in-
dicates the steady growth of public sentiment,
and is an omen of the day not far distant when
all barriers of this kind will be removed.—
Christian Union.

	A COPY of the words written in the Queen's
own hand, to be placed upon the monument
she has had erected in Hughenden Church, it
is as follows:
	"To the dear and honored memory of Ben-
jamin, Earl of Beaconsfield, this memorial is
placed by his grateful and affectionate Sovereign
and friend Victoria R. I. "Kings love him
that speaketh right." Prov. xvi, 13. Feb. 27,
1882."


178	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
﻿SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	The following interesting incidents I sketch
from letters written by my mother to my father
while on a mission.
	The first dated October 11th, 1840, says,
"Conference closed last Monday. It was the
largest and most interesting one that has ever
been held since the Church was organized.
The people that attended were estimated at four
thousand, some thought there were more.
Much business was transacted and many good
instructions given. Brother Joseph has opened
a new and glorious subject of late, which has
caused quite a revival in the Church; that is
being baptized for the dead. Paul speaks of it
in First Corinthians 15th chapter 29th verse.
Joseph has received a fuller explanation of it
by revelation.	*	*	*	*	Since
this order has been preached here, the waters
have been continually troubled. During con-
ference there were sometimes from eight to ten
Elders in the river at a time baptizing.
	*	*	*	Those who have no
friends upon the earth to act for them, can
make their wants known to whomsoever they
will, through ministering spirits; and by so do-
ing we act as agents for them. Thus you see
there is a chance for all. Is not this a glorious
doctrine? Surely the Gentiles will mock, but
we will rejoice to have the Gospel preached to
the spirits in prison, and give them the privil-
ege of coming forth in the first resurrection.
President Smith in company with several breth-
ren have bought a steam boat, which is now
running from St. Louis to Galena. They cal-
culate in the Spring to run it to Wellsville.
Perhaps you will have the privilege of coming
home on it."
	In another letter she says, "I mentioned in
my last, that our people had bought a boat.
They have named her Nauvoo. The last trip
she made up the river, Brother Joseph Smith
went with her, and when he returned who
should accompany him but John Boynton and
his wife, and Lyman Johnson. They made it
their home at Joseph's all the time they were
here. I never saw Joseph appear more happy.
Said he "I am going to have all my old friends
around me again." Both of them bought lots
and calculate to build here. As to their faith
I have not heard much about it, but conclude
they have got some, or they would have no ob-
ject in coming here. I never saw any one ap-
pear more glad to see me than John's wife, they
called us all brothers and sisters. The day I
spent with them was one long to be rem-
embered.	*	*	*
	"I feel very grateful to you and Brother
Brigham and all the Saints who have admin-
istered to my necessities, may the Lord reward
them four fold. The things all came safe and
in an acceptable time, I can assure you.	*	*
	*	Sister Bently (formerly widow of David
Patten) was very thankful for her present, Sis-
ter Husband too. Sister Bently was very sick
the day I gave it to her. The next day she
felt the chill coming on, her mother told her to
put her shawl around her. 'Well' said she,
'who knows but Bro. Kimball has sent a bless-
ing with it, people anciently were healed
with any thing that the Apostles had touched,
and I will put it on and claim the blessing.'
She did so and her chill immediately left her;
she was quite smart all that day and so thankful
that she could not speak of it without weeping."
	A few extracts from my father's letter written
one year from the time he left us in Commerce,
may prove interesting. He gives some idea of
the sacrifice that was required at the hands of
the Apostles to prove them, whether or no they
were the true servants of God who were willing
to trust Him, and go forth in obedience accord-
ing to the pattern laid down by our Savior,

[Column 2]
"without purse or scrip" to bear the true mes-
sage of salvation to those who sit in darkness.
They were told in the beginning, that it would
require their whole souls and courage like that
of Enoch, for they would be considered the
worst of men; but not to be discourraged at
this for when God pours out his spirit, the en-
emy will rage. "The lives of those who pro-
claim the true Gospel will be in danger, this
has been the case ever since the days of righte-
ous Abel."
	The place where we were then living was
named Springvale because of the numerous
springs in that vicinity.
	The letter bears the following date:
					September 19th, 1840.
MY DEAR COMPANION:
	It is one year yesterday since I left you in
Springvale, sick on your bed. After I started,
you recollect, I called you to the door to bid
you farewell. I tell you, my dear Vilate, that
time will be remembered by me as long as time
lasts. No man could suffer more than I did in
my feelings, no and I hope I will never have
to again while I live on earth; I think if ever
one man did, I have left all for the cause of
Christ. Oh the feelings that I had no man has
language to express; I must say that my con-
stitution is broken down. I have aged more in
one year past than in five years previous, and
I suppose it has been the same with you. Bro-
ther Brigham Young and George A. Smith,
have failed in the same way. When I look
back on the journey that we have traveled and
the sickness that we have passed through I do
not wonder at all, and as you say it seems like
an age to me. Last week I was taken with the
cholora in the evening and it appeared to me
as though I could not live till morning. I was
cramped in my legs and body, was in a strange
place and no one to assist me; chills came on
me in the night and it seemed as though I
should frezee to death before morning, I was
obliged to leave my bed and get in with Bro-
ther George. The next day my legs were so
numb that I could scarcely walk. It held me
about three days and brought me quite low. I
am doing tolerably well at present. Brother
Woodruff left us about two weeks ago. We had
not baptized but one here in the city before he
left. He felt almost discouraged, said he never
saw such a hard case before in his day. Every
door closed against us and every heart. We
traveled from day to day from one part of the
city to the other to find some one that would
receive our testimony, but it seemed all in vain
for some time; at last we found one old Cornel-
ious that was ready to receive our testimony as
soon as he heard it.
	Last Sabbath I went forward and baptized
four. This was after I was attacked with the
cholera. I thought it would do me good to go
into a cold bath. Last night I baptized four,
and more are going next Sunday. So you see
the ice is broken in London and the truth has
got such a hold the Devil can not root it out;
but, he is very mad aud I am glad, I shall
never try to please him the Lord assisting me.
You may think that I feel discouraged. I will
say I have never seen the first moment as yet,
I do not see any thing to discourage me but
everything to the reverse. I know that I am
built on the foundation of Jesus Christ and the
Apostles and I know that my name is written
in heaven and that I shall come forth in the first
resurrection, that is if I should lay in the dust
before that time comes. It matters not to me
whether I die or live if I do the will of my
Father who is in heaven; and I know by the
voice of God and by the spirit of prophecy and
revelation and by the power of God and by
more than one hundred testimonies that I could
mention if it was needful, that this is his work.
You know Vilate that it is not a small thing
that casts me down. Now my dear cempanion
pray to the Father in the name of Jesus

[Column 3]
Christ to uphold me that I may continue to
the end and magnify my calling in the sight of
God and angels and all holy men that have
gone before us; and rather than let me fall that
He will take me to himself, for I know and He
knows that I wish to become a man of God in
the full sense of the word; and I know that I
cannot become thus except He be with me, for
in and of myself I am nothing, nor is any
other one; they may continue for a little sea-
son in their own wisdom but they will fall at
last and go down to perdition. I speak of these
things because I feel my weakness before God."
	In the same letter he describes some of the
sights, witnessed by himself, Brothers Wood-
ruff and George A. Smith. "On the 5th, of
September" he says, "we visited West-minister
Abbey and went through every department,
saw all the tombs and monuments of the Kings
and Queen and Lords who are laid therein, and
sat in the chair in which Queen Victoria was
crowned, and all the Kings and Queens for the
last eight hundred years; so you may know that
it is quite an old chair and is worth going some
distance to see. We also went to [---] James
Park and saw the Queen's troops two hundred
horsemen and all had black horses. I never
before saw so beautiful a sight. There was
about 400 footmam and a beautiful band of
music.	*	*	*	On the 8th of Sep-
tember we visited the House of Commons.
	On the 17th, Elder Smith and myself visited
the Queen's Palace, saw her horses which are
of a cream color, there are twelve span of them
and four are put before the carrage at once.
The carriage of State weighs four tons,is twenty-
four feet in length, the most superb that was
ever built in Europe. There are eight or ten
others similar; probably 150 more horses kept
for her majesty. I saw the Palace of Queen
Adelaide, King William's wife.	*	*	*	We
went through all the stables, and harness house
and all that appertains to it. You would be
astonished to see the stir there is made over a
little Queen, at the same time thousands starv-
ing to death for a little bread; but they have
their reward. "Blessed are the poor for they
shall rejoice in the Holy One of Israel." The
rich and the proud have their reward here, and
we shall have ours hereafter, so I do not envy
them. The work of God is spreading in every
direction. I received a letter from Elder
Richards yesterday. He is well. There has
been fifteen or twenty baptized in Manchester
every week, and so it is in Preston and every
other part that I can hear from. B. Young
got news from O. Pratt, and I received a letter
from John Taylor. They are well. Since we
have been here in London I have received
thirty-one letters from different parts of the
land all things go well at present; but the Devil
is angry and also his comrades. There is great
opposition in England and it is growing worse
every day. Remember me to all of the Saints
from England, if they have reached there.
Give my love to Bro. Joseph, Elder Rigdon,
Brothers Hyrum, Don Carlos Smith and
families; and Brother Thompson and wife,
Brothers Hubbard, Bently, Rich, Joseph
Young, Israel Barlow and their wives and all
the wives of the Twelve and finally every body
else that you see and may the Lord bless them
all is my prayer for Christ's sake, Amen."
	This letter came at a time when my mother
was overwhelmed with sorrow, having just re-
ceived the heart-rending news that her dear
father was no more.
	She being the youngest child had been nearly
the idol of her family. Her father had passed
through the troubles in Ohio and Missouri and
had followed us to Nauvoo and this was the
longest time we had been separated. The
last tidings received from him, he was well and
calculating to start on his journey home on the
1st, of October, and we had been daily antici-
pating his arrival.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 179


﻿GREETINGS AND SENTIMENTS.

HANNAH T. KING;

Sweet Friend: In reading o'er with interest
	Your "Codicil," I scarcely can refrain
To ask, the very first of that behest,
	You will recall, or change, or please explain.

"No flowers"! What reason can my sister give
	For this exclusion? Pure and precious things,
So choice, so cherished over while we live,
	In death are they not hallowed offerings?

What emblem more befitting that repose,
	To which your lines refer, and mark the scene,
Than the full open, whitest, sweetest rose,
	In death as well as life our floral queen?

And best if briers on the stem be found—
	('Tis my own fancy, may be, or a whim,
But sacred still—) One Head with thorns was crowned,
	And here, as ever, we would think of Him!

Think of, and imitate that one divine,
	The Sovereign always of your "mystic three,"
Whose love alone, to souls like yours and mine,
	E'en when bercaved, sots faith's fair pinions free,
S. L. City, Sunday April 23rd, 1881.


PROFESSOR JOSEPH L. BARFOOT
DEAD!

While [---] was finishing the lines above,
My husband came, and spoke a name we love;
And tenderly, with reverence deep, he said,
"Professor Barfoot, I have learned, is dead!"

Let me not think to tell this great man's worth,
This Student, rich with truths of heaven and earth
But as a daughter, I can weep and say,
Oh! happy one, gone home this sacred day!

Sweet home! to which our loved ones gather [-]ast,
Where all shall meet, with songs of joy at last;
Dear Sabbaths, come and go; and for the call,
So quickly coming, Lord prepare us all.
										LULA.


﻿SPENCER’S LETTERS.

	This interesting work consists of a series of
fifteen letters written by Orson Spencer,in the
years 1842 and 1847. They are answers to
the earnest inquiries of a clergyman of the
Baptist Denomination, who had formerly been
an intimate friend of the author. The first
letter was written in the city of Nauvoo, the
others in the city of Liverpool, while the author
was on a mission in Europe.
	The book is remarkable for its beautiful flow
of language,which holds the reader spell-bound.
Even after he has read it he finds himself re-
ferring to passages that are particularly fascin-
ating. Throughout the whole volume, one can
see that the writer evinces great anxiety con-
cerning the welfare of his friend, sincerely
wishing that he might become a convert to the
“Mormon” faith. The author, remembering
when a clergyman of the same Church; how he
himself struggled against this peculiar religion,
endeavoring in vain to reject it, has sympathy
for the Baptist Minister. Not one word of cen-
sure does he return his inquiries; but by calm
and conclusive arguments, he shows how in-
ferior are the churches of the world compared
with the one of which he is a member.
	His writings show that he is not a religious
enthusiast. He uses no extravagant expres-
sions to show forth the purity of his religion.
If he makes an assertion, he cites the reader to
Scripture or history, to verify the truth of his
statement. Such appropriate language, un-
selfish thoughts, and generous expressions con-
clusively prove that the writer was inspired.
	His comparison of Joseph Smith with Jesus
Christ is notable for its eloquence yet simplicity.
The modern prophet is spoken of in such glow-
ing terms as almost to indicate devotion on the
tart of the writer; althongh in another passage
he expresses an aversion to the worship of
man.


The eighth epistle treats especially of the nat-
ure of Deity and his abode. His assurance of
the existence of God, and his being a person
having a material body, is certainly gratifying.
And as the Divine Being has a real body,
heaven, his abode, must be a place of reality,
tangible and visible to its occupants. The
terms in which he speaks of his deceased wife,
the joy in the expectation of meeting her in a
future state, are indescribably pathetic. He
here showes the absurdity in supposing that
the soul dies with the body.
	But particuarly is the writing sublime, in the
description of the martyrdom of Joseph and
Hyrum Smith. So vividly he portrays the
awful gloom and anguish that pervaded the
hearts of the people of Nauvoo, that the reader
unconsciously partakes of a melancholy feeling
in keeping with those of the bereaved inhabit-
ants, of that beautiful city, at the time of the
fearful tragedy.					CAMEO.
	April 1, 1882.


SPRING—THE EMBLEM OF YOUTH.

	The seasons of the year, have often been con-
sidered, as the emblems of human life. And of
these bright, beautiful Spring is considered the
emblem of youth. It is said, that all depends
on the Spring. If the blossoms are destroyed
or if none are formed, there, will be no fruit.
If good seeds are not sown, there will be no
harvest. The reaping time will come, but there
will be nothing but seeds to reap. 
	Let us remember then my dear friends to
make good use of the spring of our lives. And
sow our minds with good seeds. So that when
the reaping time of our lives comes, that we
may have an abundant harvest of good deeds.
I would advise you while yet young, to
form good habts; and in forming them, let us
try and form those that will benefit us most, in
the life to come, and let us try and keep the
"Word of Wisdom," to the best of our ability
Let us young people refrain from using tea and
coffee, tobacco and strong intoxicating drinks,
except in cases of sickness for a medicine. For
now is the time to quit our bad habits, and to
form good, and noble ones. It is easier to quit
the bad ones now, than when we are older,
easier today, than tomorrow. Now in the
spring of our lives is the time for the improve-
ment of our minds, the correction of our tempers,
the enlargement of our capacities to serve God.
For the formation of good habits; and above
all let us make a decided effort to work out our
own salvation with fear and trembling before
our God.				AMELIA SPENCER.


HOW TO HELP EMIGRATE.

ESCALANTE, GARFIELD Co. April 23rd, 1882.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	After reading the letter in the last EXPON-
ENT, from Kent, England, to the Primary As-
sociations of Box Elder Stake; our sympathies
were moved in behalf of the children of the
Saints in foreign lands. Our Primary Associa-
tion had the proceeds of a party on hand to get
presents for the children. The President, Mrs.
Mary A. P. Schow, read the letter to the As-
sociation, explained to them the situation of
many poor children in the world; then took a
vote whether they would rather have presents
or emigrate a needy child, their sympathies
were awakened, directly all said they would
rather send for a little boy or girl. Have re-
ceived since in donations form five cents to one
dollar, have $18,00 already towards the good
cause.
	We also spoke on the subject of assisting to
gather the Saints, in our Young Ladies As-
sociation; contrasted our situation with that of
the Saints, in the world. A majority of mem-


bers were present. We opened a subscription,
all present were willing to donate one dollar
each, to emigrate a young lady. Much can
be accomplished by united action. Now it is
the beginning of the emigrating season, there
are five months ahead. I thought when read-
ing the report in the Deseret News, of the
Young Ladies and Primary Aassciations, if
every member would donate one dollar, twenty-
five cents, per month, for four months,a mighty
work could be accomplished, in assisting to
gather Israel. Those that, have been gathered
from the nations know the acute longings the
Saints experience, and their desires to gather
to Zion. Having spent the first seventeen
years of my life in the old country, I know a
little about the situation of the working classes.
	Sisters let us put aside the vanities of the
world and assist in ameliorating the condition
of our sex, and in bringing those of our faith
to Zion; that they may enjoy the protection
and status that we enjoy through the blessings
of our religion.
	We all have ability. In the emigration sea-
son, that is a strong point with me, I want to
assist myself and use an influence with others.
Will let you hear from us again in the course
of three or four months, when we close our
subscription.
	The President of the Young Mens M. I. A.,
of this place said he would use his influence
with their members to assist us young ladies in
the Gospel.
						JANE S. COLEMAN.


THOUGHTS.

	All alone, yet not alone for I feel that the
Spirit of God is here, and when we have the
Spirit of God in our hearts, we need never feel
lonely, but may always find something to think
of that is good and will do us good; indeed I
think it is good to be alone sometimes, so that
we can recall our past acts, and see where we
can improve, for I care not how good, or how
charitable a person may be they can always
improve if they will try; and we must ever
remember there is no standing still in the king-
dom of God; if we are not improving ourselves,
we are certainly losing what we have gained,
so it behooves us to be "up and doing” or per-
haps when the Bridegroom comes we shall be
found among the five foolish virgins, without
oil in our lamps; and there will be no time to
buy then. Now is the time to trim our lamps
and take care to keep them burning bright.
To do this, we have no time to waste, for Satan
is ever on the alert, and unless we watch our-
selves very carefully we are liable to step aside.
We must not only watch ourselves but pray
earnestly for wisdom and strength to withstand
the snares of the evil one. I sometimes think
if we were only as wide-awake as he is, how
much faster we should progress, but some of
us seem to be half asleep. Sisters let us bestir
ourselves, let us watch our children more care-
fully teach them to pray and to have faith in
God; see that they keep good company, teach
them to observe, “The Word of Wisdom,” do not
allow them to follow after the fashions of the
world. It grieves me sometimes to see how
careless some mothers are in regard to their off-
spring, they seem to think that when they are
fed and clothed their work is done, and the lit-
tle one is left to seek its own amusement: no
wonder they are led to do wrong, God will
hold us responsible for these things. Sisters
let us wake up and trim our lamps while yet the
chance is ours, for soon the cry will go forth
“Behold the bridegroom cometh, go ye out to
meet him."						JEMIMA.


Senator Paddock has been appointed one of
the five Commissioners for Utah.


180	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthy, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt	Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY.	-	MAY 1, 1882.


UTAH NOT REPRESENTED.

	The decision so long pending, has been given in
the House of Representatives at Washington
D. C., by a majority vote, against the Hon.
George Q. Cannon, Delegate from Utah. Mr.
Cannon was fairly elected which was clearly
proven. His naturalization did not stand in the
way, but only the simple fact of his confession,
to the practise of plural marriage, believing it to
be a divine command. Then he is simply ex-
cluded on account of his religion. This is es-
tablishing a fatal precedent. Alas! our poor
country !
	We are sincerely sorry for those Representa-
tives to be deprived of the influence of so good,
so noble, so genuine-souled a man as George Q.
Cannon. It is to their own injury. The Lord
will over-rule it all for the good of his people.
"He moves in a mysterious way his wonders to
perform." The world may rest assured that
when the Saints have done their duty in i-
terceding and pleading with Governors and rul-
ers etc., that the Almighty will come out of his
hiding-place and sorely vex the nations.
	The sorrow the Latter-day Saints feel is not
on account of Mr. Cannon, but that this great
and free Republic, founded upon the broad prin-
ciple of equal rights and privileges to all men
has so far retrograded to be capable of such a
decision. What may men not look for? What
may they not fear when Congress legislates
against religion?
	If, as many believe, and as has been published
by some of the newspapers, politicians desire to
make political capital out of Utah—it will prove
a lasting disgrace to those who have had any
part or lot in the matter.
	Those honorable men who opposed Mr. Can-
non's being denied his seat, as the Delegate from
Utah, will have a clear conscience, sleep well
and be able to hold up their heads in the pres-
ence of all men and all women who love liberty
and hate oppression in any form.
	We are sincerely sorry that such an outrage
could have been perpetrated in this "free and hap-
py land;" not only on account of the Latter-day
Saints, but that of our dearly beloved country, of
which every American citizen has in times past
been so justly proud. But this is only the begin-
ning of the end. Is this a government "by the
people and for the people," if so, may not all peo-
ple be represented irrespective of religion?


CONSTITUTlON OF UTAH.

	The Constitutional Convention, which con-
vened on the 10th of last month, for the purpose
of drafting a Constitution for the proposed State
of Utah, has so far completed its work that the
Convention has adjourned until the 6th of June
proximo. Meantime a Committee of five, to-
gether with the President and Secretary of the
Convention, will take such steps as are necessary
to prepare the way for the elections to be held in


all the various precincts, and the people having
become acquainted with the Constitution by
perusal of the printed copies, which will be pre
viously circulated, will thus be prepared to judge
whether they will vote "yes" or "no" for its
ratification or rejection. The members of the
Convention unanimously adopted it—now it
remains to be seen what the people will do.
	There has been a committee of five members
appointed by the President of the Convention to
prepare a Memorial to Congress. This Memorial
is to be presented with the Constitution or to
open the way for it. Everything pertaining to
each article of the Constitution has been care-
fully studied and discussed, not only in specia
Committee, but in Committee of the whole, in
open Assembly.
	It may seem strange to some that so much
time has been devoted to the preparation of
something which it is very doubtful whether
Congress will even look at favorably, but it is
the duty of every free-born citizen, to seek by all
lawful and just means to attain a free Republi-
can form of government, such as is guaranteed
under state rule. There is no people more de-
serving of this blessing than the people of Utah,
whether Congress will thus decide in their favor
or not; but eventually Utah under that, or some
other name, will become as powerful as any of
her sister States. Assured of this fact the peo-
ple of the Territory who have already achieved
wonders in many ways, can well afford to wait
for the rulers of this nation to consider this im-
portant question. It is greatly to be hoped that
the women of this Territory as well as the men
will study the Constitution, which will soon be
in their hands, thoroughly; not be indifferent
feeling there is little prospect of its becoming
valid and effective—but examine it so carefully
as to be able to converse intelligently about it,
and see if it comes up to their ideas of a free
government.
	The constitution just framed is the only one
we have any knowledge of, in which women
have had a voice. This is something all women
may be justly proud of; it shows the advance-
ment of thought on the woman question. It is
one of the best proofs that could be given that
men are in earnest in giving woman the ballot,
and it depends largely upon woman herself in
the future whether she shall have a voice in
making the laws by which she and her
children are to be governed.
	But woman will, for the age proclaims it, and
man true to the instincts of the hour is becoming
converted to this theory which a few years ago
would have been considered very ultra.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	ELECTIONS will be held in all the precincts
throughout Utah, on Monday May 22, to vote
"yes" or "no" on the Constitution framed at the
recent Convention.

	WE publish in this issue the EDMUND'S BILL
in its complete form as it passed both houses of
Congress and was signed by the Chief Executive
of the nation. Every woman should carefully
peruse and preserve this remarakable document.

	"FRAGMENTS OF EXPERIENCE." This is the
sixth book of the Faith Promoting Series. It
has been lately issued from the Office of the
“Juvenile Instructor." It contains some very
interesting and remarkable incidents in real life,
which will be good to place in the hands of the
children of this people. There will soon be suf-
ficent books of this kind to form quite a library
of choice reading matter. Price 25 cts.

	"MORMON DOCTRINE," by C. W. Penrose, is a
very ably written little work, recently published.
It is one that will be very useful to circulate;
giving in brief and in a most interesting style


the doctrine of the Latter-day Saints. It is an
excellent book to send abroad to the world to
give the people correct ideas of the principles
advocated by this people. It is Multun in parvo
Price 35 cts.

	"THE MARTYRS" by L. O. Littlefields is an-
other book about the same size issued from the
same press. It gives a sketch of the most re-
markable facts, relating to that fearful tragedy
the martyrdom of Joseph and Hyrum Smith,
which will be of thrilling interest to every Lat-
er-day Saint. Price 25 cts.


THE EDMUNDS BILL.

	The Edmunds bill as it passed both Houses of
Congress and was signed by the President.

A BILL

	To amend section 5352 of the Revised Statu-
tes of the United States in reference to Bigamy
and for other purposes.

	Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Re-
presentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled, That section 5352 of the
Revised Statutes of the United States be,and the
same is hereby, amended so as to read as follows,
namely:

	Every person who has a husband or wife liv-
ing, who, in a territory or other place over which
the United States have exclusive jurisdiction,
hereafter marries another, whether married or
single, and any man who hereafter simultane-
ously, or on the same day, marries more than
one woman, in a territory or other place over
which the United States have exclusive jurisdic-
tion, is guilty of polygamy,and shall be punished
by a fine of not more than $500 and by imprison-
ment for a term of not more than five years; but
this section shall not extend to any person by
reason of any former marriage,whose husband or
wife by such marriage shall have been absent
for five successive years, and is not known to
such person to be living, and is believed by such
person to be dead, nor to any person by reason
of any former marriage which shall have been
dissolved by a valid decree of a competent court,
nor to any person by reason of any former mar-
riage which shall have been pronounced void
by a valid decree of a competent court, on the
ground of nullity of the marriage contract.
	Sec. 2:—That the foregoing provisions shall
not effect the prosecution, or punishment, of any
offence already committed against the section
tion amended by the first section of this act.
	Sec. 3.—That if any male person, in a territory
or other place over which the United States have
exclusive jurisdiction, hereafter cohabits with
more than one woman,he shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof
shall be punished by a fine of not more than $300,
or by imprisonment for not more than six
months, or by both said punishments, in the
discretion of the court.
	Sec.4.—That counts for any or all of the of-
fenses named in sections one and two of this act
may be joined in the same information or in-
dictment.
	Sec. 5.—That in any prosecution for bigamy,
polygamy, or unlawful cohabitation, under any
Statute of the United States,it shall be sufficient
cause of challenge to any person drawn or sum-
moned as a juryman or talesman, first, that he
is or has been living in the practice of bigamy,
polygamy or unlawful cohabitation with more
than one woman, or that he is or has been guilty
of an offense punishable by either of the forego-
ing sections, or by section 5352, of the Revised
Statutes of the United States, or the act of July
1st, 1862, entitled "An act to punish and preven
the practice of polygamy in the Territories of the
United States and other places, and disapprov-


[Column 1]
ing and annulling certain acts of the Legislative
Assembly of the Territory of Utah;” or second
that he believes it right for a man to have more
than one living and undivorced wife at the same
time, or to live in the practice of cohabiting with
more than one woman; and any person appear-
ing or offered, as a juror or talesman, and chal-
lenged on either of the foregoing grounds, may
be questioned on his oath as to the existence of
any such cause of challenge, and other evidence
may be introduced bearing upon the question
raised by such challenge; and this question shall
be tried by the court. But as to the first ground
of challenge before mentioned, the person chal-
lenged shall not be bound to answer if he shall
say upon his oath that he declines on the ground
that his answer may tend to criminate himself;
and if he shall answer as to said first ground, his
answer shall not be given in evidence in any
criminal prosecution against him for any offense
named in sections 1 or 3 of this act; but if he de-
clines to answer on any ground, he shall be re-
jected as incompetent.
	Sec. 6—That the President is hereby author-
ized to grant amnesty to such classes of offenders[-]
guilty before the passage of this act of bigamy,
polygamy, or unlawful cohabitation, on such
conditions and under such limitations as he shall
think proper; but no such amnesty shall have
effect unless the conditions thereof shall be com-
plied with.
	Sec. 7,—That the issue of bigamous or polyga-
mous marriages, known as Mormon marriages
in cases in which such marriages have been
solemnized according to the ceremonies of the
Mormon sect, in any Territory of the United
States, and such issue shall have been born be-
fore the first day of January, A. D. 1883, are
hereby legitimated.
	Sec. 8.—That no polygamist, bigamist, or any
person cohabiting with more than one woman,
and no woman cohabiting with any of the per-
sons described as aforesaid in this section, in any
Territory or other place over wh[-]ch the United
States have exclusive jurisdiction, shall be en-
titled to vote at any election held in any such
Territory or other place, or be elegible for election
or appointment to or be entitled to hold any of-
fice or place of public trust, honor, or emolument
in, under, or for any such Territory or place or
under the United States.
	Sec. 9.—That all the registration and election
offices of every description in the Territory
of Utah are hereby declared vacant, and
each and every duty relating to the registra-
tion of votes the conduct of elections,
the receiving or rejection of votes, and the
canvassing and returning of the same, and
the issuing of certificates or other evidences of
election in said Territory, shall, until other pro-
vision be made by the Legislative Assembly of
said Territory as is herein after by this section
provided, be performed under the existing laws
of the United States and of said Territory, by 
proper persons, who shall be appointed to execute
such offices and perform such duties by a board
of five person, to be appointed by the President,
by and with the advice and consent of the Sen-
ate, not more than three of whom shall be mem-
bars of one political party, a majority of whom
shall be a quorum. The members of said board
so appointed by the President shall each receive
a salary at the rate of 3,000 per annum, and
shall continue in office until the Legislative As-
sembly of said Territory shall make provisions
for filling said offices as herin authorized. The 
secretary of the Territory shall be the secretary
of said board, and- keep a journal of its [-]roceed-
dings, and attest the action of said board under
this section. The canvass and return of all the
voted at elections in said Territory for members
of the Legislative Assembly therof shall also be

[Column 2]
returned to said board, which shall canvass all
such returns and issue cert[-]ficates of election to
those persons who, being eligible for such elec-
tion shall appear to have been lawfully elected,
which certificates shall be the only evidence of
the right of such persons to sit in such Assembly,
provided said board of five persons shall not ex[-]
clude any persons otherwise eligible to vote from
the polls, on account of any opinion of such person 
may entertain on the subject of bigamy or poly-
gamy; nor shall they refuse to count any such
vote on account of the opinion of the person cast-
ing it on the subject of bigamy or polygamy; but
each house of such Assembly, after its organiza-
tion, shall have power to decide upon the elec-
tions and qualifications of its members. And at,
or after the first meeting of said Legislative As-
sembly whose members shall have been elected 
and returned according according to the provisions of this
act, said Legislative Assemble may make such 
laws, conformable to the Organic Act of said 
Territory, and not inconsistent with other laws 
of the United States, as it shall deem proper con-
cerning the filling of the offices in said Territory 
declared vacant by this act.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 181


IN MEMORIAM.

	Died In South Bountiful, Davis Co. U. T.
Rebecca Moss, daughter of Daniel and Mary
Wood, born May 11th, 1826 Loughborough Up-
per Canada, gathered to Kirtland was baptized
when eight years of age; gathered with the
Saints in Missouri, went from there to Illinois,
was married to Elder John Moss, March 1844, in
Pike Co., Ill. In 1848, came to these valleys
was the mother of twelve children of whom ten
are living to mourn the loss of a loving-mother;
she has left seventeen grandchildren and three
have gone before her. Before the Stake organ-
ization she was a teacher, in the Bountiful Re-
lief Society for nine years.
	In Jan. 1880 she was chosen president of the
board of teachers in South Bountiful, was true to
every principle of the Gospel. She has passed
away in the glorious hope of a part in the first
resurrection.
	TESTIMONIAL, Of respect and esteem to the
memory of our beloved Sister Rebecca Moss.
	Whereas: It has pleased our Heavenly Father
to release our sister from affliction and sufferings
therefore.
	Resolved: That we the Sisters of the Relief
Society of South Bountiful Ward, have lost in
her a kind and affectionate sister and a true
friend one who was ever ready to perform every
duty required of her, we sincerely sympathize
with her bereaved, husband children and
family.
			PHEBE ATKINSON PRES.
			REBECCA W. BROWN. Sec'y.

	Died, in the 20th Ward, Salt Lake City, April
15th 1882, at the residence of her son William,
Tharbothe Knight, age 53 years, and 28 days,
after a lingering and severe illness. She with
her husband, Thomas Knight, was amoug the
first that received the Gospel in Davenport, De
von, England.
	Her husband died in England, leaving her
with a family of children, to meet and struggle
with the trials of life. He requested her to em-
igrate to Utah, before his death, and through the
blessing of the Lord, in 1864 she and her child-
ren fulfilled that request. Some years later, she
was married to Brother Harmon Wickel, and
through his death, was the second time left a
widow. She was called to the office of a teacher
in the 20th Ward branch of the Relief Society,
during the first year of its organization, and
faithfully performed the duties of that calling as
long as her health permited it. The death of


her youngest son, a faithful, obedient young
man 21 years of age, which occurred four years
ago, was a severe and heavy blow to her, from
which she never recovered. She leaves two sons
and two daughters, and thirteen grandchildren,
who are all striving to follow in her footsteps,
with the glorious hope of meeting her and others
who have gone before, in the morning of the
first resurrection.

Farewell dear mother, we do not mourn thee
	As one dead, but gone to rest,
From thy labors and thy sufferings,
	With thy kindred to be blest.

ELIZABETH K. FEWENS.


SOME THINGS THE ANCIENTS ATE.

	It is interesting to read of the various articles
of diet used in the different ages of the world, by
its inhabitants. Judging by the few varieties of
food mentioned in the Bible we should infer that
the early inhabitants of the world lived rather
plain, not to say coarsely. Although a sacred
and historical work like the Bible is hardly the
book in which to look for the Universal bill of
fare and perhaps gives only an imperfect idea of
it, though at that very early period of which it
first gives an account, the varieties of food must
of necessity have been few.
	That eaten previous to the fall, by our first
parents about 4000 years B. C., was the fruit of
the garden of Eden, for God placed them there
and gave to them for food "every herb bearing
seed and every tree in which is the fruit of a tree
yielding seed."
	The first time we read of bread, was when the
Lord was going to banish them from the garden
and said to Adam "In the sweat of thy face shalt
thou eat bread, till thou return unto the
ground."
	After the flood every thing was delivered into
the hands of Noah and his sons about 2348 years
B. C. God said unto them "Every moving
thing that liveth shall be meat for you, even as
the green herb have I given you all things."
About this time wine was made.
	The first time we read of flesh being eaten
was when the three strangers visited Abraham,
(though no doubt it was used long before) Sarah
made the cakes on the hearth and Abraham
"took butter and milk, and the calf which he
had dressed and set it before them; and he stood
by them under the tree and they did eat" he
died 1821 years B. C. This gives us some clue
to the time they visited him.
	Jacob bought Esau's birthright for some red
pottage and Isaac ate savory meat and bread
when he blessed Jacob, this was about 1759 B. C.
	In Exodus we read of oil, spice, milk, and
honey, that was in Moses time and he was born
1571 B. C.
	Danied preferred pulse to the provisions of the
King's table. In the wilderness the Hebrews
sighed for the "fish the cucumbers, the melons,
the leeks, the onions and the garlic."
	We read that Jesus Christ often appeased his
hunger with bread and fish, though plain diet
then and for some hundreds of years before, was
a matter of taste or necessity for while the Per-
sians 600 years B. C., lived principally on bread
and cresses the Medes lived in luxury.
	Tea was taken to England in 1610, and coffee
in 1652. Cauliflowers, beans, peas, and cabbage,
were introduced about 1660. It was not till
about 1546 that salads, carrots and turnips were
known in England, and potatoes were first
planted in Ireland in 1610. Currants, cherries
and apricots were introduced during the reign of
Henry 8th, consequently before 1547, and
peaches during the reign of Queen Elizabeth.
	In all probability the art of boiling down the
juice of the sugar cane and making raw sugar


was an invention of the 15th century, but refined
sugar has only been in use about 300 years.
	Thus we see that many, now very common
edibles have not been known till a comparatively
recent date, and other industries and arts have
improved accordingly, and though almost every
thing existed primitively in some state, it has
taken man's ingenuity and labor to bring things
to their present perfection and uses.
							ANN FELLOWS.


182	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

SOUTH BOUNTIFUL,

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Before the Stake organization the East,
West, and South Bountiful sisters, met in one
Relief Society.
	Jan 26th, 1878, our Society was organized
in a Ward by our Bishop. Mrs. Phebe Atkin-
son President; Elizabeth Brown. Jane Hatch,
Counselors; Rebecca W. Brown Secretary;
Harriet Ellis, Treasurer. With a quorum of
twelve teachers,who strive to faithfully perform
their duty. Our Society when first organized
consisted of fifty-six members, of whom nine
have removed and three died.
	Jan. 1880, our board of teachers was organ-
ized, Mrs. Rebecca Moss, Presiding Teacher;
Hannah Arnold, Sec’y. Our financial report
is as follows, from our organization until
Oct. 1881.
	Receipts, cash $152.50; property 97,93; dis-
bursed, meeting house in cash, $53.00; in pro-
perty $74.35; temple, in cash, 21.00; poor in
cash 78.50; in property 16,33. On hand 7,25.
			REBECCA W. BROWN, Sec'y.

BEAVER CITY.

	The Conference of the Relief Society of
Beaver Stake was held on Thursday, March, 2,
1882. Sister Lucinda Howd presiding. After
the opening exercises, Sister Howd gave some
instructions in regard to the Conference. Min-
utes of the last Conference were read and ap-
proved.
	Verbal reports of the different wards were
given by Presidents Cox, Richards and Jones;
all showing that the sisters are energetic in
performing their duties and are untiring in their
labors for the advancement of the work in their
different localities. Good instructions were
given by Counselors McDonough and Skinner,
after which Prest. John Ashworth addressed
the sisters in a lengthy discourse. He was
very emphatic in his instructions in regard to
caring for the poor. Said, let no one suffer for
the necessities of life, no matter what their re-
ligious belief, but look well to their wants; let
none go hungry or destitute.
	In the afternoon, the financial and statistical
reports were read, showing a prosperous con-
dition financially, and a good average atten-
dance at meetings. Remarks were made by
Sisters Dell, Lightner, Crosby, Lydia and
Nancy Blackburn, M. E. Ashworth and Jane
Gillis. All spoke earnestly and touched on
many interesting subjects. Sister Howd then
gave some instructions in regard to our duties
as mothers.
	Bro. Wm. Robinson, after other good re-
marks, said the organizations of the sisters
are worth everything or nothing, and ought to
be considered of due importance.
	Bro. Fotheringham said when we have hate
in our bosoms, we have that much evil in our
lives; hence the necessity of the Saints loving
each other. His remarks, which were very
interesting, were continued to some length.
	Bro. Eyre, of Minersville, said our mission is
to suppress evil, and establish peace and

[Column 2]
righteousness on the earth. He, as well as the
other brethren, spoke well and spiritedly.
			E. A. FARNSWORTH, Secretary.

PANACCA, NEVADA.

	Minutes of a meeting held in Panacca Ward,
March 15th, 1882, for the purpose of organiz-
ing a Primary Association. Bishop Syphus pre-
siding. Singing, "We thank thee O God for a
Prophet," etc. Prayer by the Bishop. Sing-
ing, "Let Zion in her beauty rise," etc.
	Bishop Syphus spoke very encouragingly to
the children; told them to ask their big broth-
ers and sisters to give us five or ten cents each
to buy books; said he would do all he could to
help us and for us to pray to the Lord to give
us strength to do our part. His desire was
that we may learn to keep the commandments
of the Lord and prayed that He would bless us
all. Sisters Langford and Lee addressed the
meeting. The following persons were sustained
as officers: Mrs. Melissa K. Lee, President;
Mrs. Annie Mathews, First Counselor; Mrs.
Mary Gentry, Second Counselor; Fanny
Moffitt, Secretary; Susan Langford, assistant
Secretary; Alice Findlay, Treasurer; number en-
rolled, thirty nine. Sisters Anna Mathews and
Fanny Moffitt adressed the meeting. Singing,
"Lord dismiss us," etc. Benediction by Bishop
Syphus.		FANNY R. MOFFITT, Secretary.


[Column 1]
PLURAL MARRIAGE.

	Is polygamy essential, and would it do vio-
lence to the conscience of the Mormon people
to drop this tenet of their faith?
	The above question was asked by a much,
and justly, esteemed gentleman in Missouri.
The following reply was not originally intend-
ed for publication, but I have decided to have
it printed, thinking there might be other hon-
orable and highminded gentlemen, who enter-
tain an honest prejudice against a principle
they do not understand; if such there be, I ask
them to read a woman's imperfect vindication
of the purity of women whose claim to respec-
tibility the American Congress are endeavoring
to legislate out of existence, to read, not
that they may believe, but that they may do
justice to the honest belief of others.
	All men of deepest scientific research agree
upon one fact: That in nature's laboratory
there is absolutely no waste, all existing elements
are therein utilized, and with Him who gov-
erns the forces of nature, economy is a fixed
law.
	Would it not be wise in man, finding him-
self endowed with reason, and allowed the free
use of his agency and further being assured
that he will be held responsible for his own
mistakes, to take a lesson from nature and
economize the brief period allotted him to live
by endeavoring to make himself innocently
happy, and also by taking that course which
reason assures him will secure his happiness in
the life beyond? We are told that the Scrip-
tures were given us for our learning and profit.
In them we find recorded a promise made by
God to Abraham that in him and his seed
should all the nations of the earth be blessed,
and those among them who should keep his
commandments He promised an everlasting in-
heritance. An inheritance could not be ever-
lasting in our finite state, as death would break
the contract; therefore it is evident that the
promise made to Abraham has not yet been
fulfilled. A detail of the events which we, as
a people, believe will take place before it will
be fulfilled would take too much time and space,
but I will mention a few promiment ones, as the
motives which inspire our course of action
are closely connected with them. We believe
that the house of Israel will rule this earth

[Column 2]
throughout the endless ages of eternity, and
that all who become heirs to salvation must
become identified with it; all that is neeessary
in order to do so is to obey the commandments
of God as they are made known unto us.
Jesus said unto the Jews, "If ye were Abra-
ham's children ye would do the works of
Abraham," and further, that God was able to
raise up children to Abraham out of the stones
of Jerusalem. All that remained of the
children of Israel after the dispersion of the
ten tribes were, after the death of Jesus and
the Apostles, scattered among the nations and
their identity as distinct tribes, with the ex-
ception of the Jews, was lost, but as the tribes
had intermarried a portion of the blood of all
the tribes was represented. Millions of their
descendants died without the knowledge that
their veins were warmed by the royal blood of
Israel. But the time is at hand when both
the living and the dead will receive a
knowledge of who they are, and of the prom-
ises concerning them. All Israel will be found,
but neither all of the living, nor all of the
dead, will be found worthy of salvation. God
is just, not a son or daughter of Abraham will
receive a blessing they do not merit, not a son
or daughter of Adam will be rejected who
obeys the law of God. The faithful Gentiles
will become heirs by adoption, and made
equal by the sealing power of the Priesthood.
But before the house of Israel can be organized
into a complete and perfect family, according
to the design of the Almighty, there is an
enormous work that must be performed. The
Gospel of the kingdom must be preached to
every nation, kindred, tongue and people, and
for this cause do we send missionaries to the
uttermost parts of the earth that all may re-
ceive the glorious invitation, "And the spirit
and the bride say, come. And let him that
heareth say, come. And let him that is athirst
come. And whosoever will, let him take of
the water of life freely." But the dead can-
not act for themselves as the spirit is not per-
fect without the body, therefore we must attend
to the necessary ordinances for them, as they
cannot be made perfect without us nor we
without them. For this cause do we pay tithing
and build temples, that we may have a
suitable place wherein these ordinances can be
attended to. It is an immense work, as nothing
has been done for the dead for eighteen cen-
turies. It is the mission of Elijah the Prophet
to assist in restoring the missing links which
connect the children of Israel with the fathers,
and for this cause was he translated, that having
a body and also the power of translation, he
could visit both the the living and the dead,
and thereby render great service when the time
for his mission to be fulfilled arrived. The
dead will hear the Gospel where they are, we
will officiate for them here, they will then have
the privilege of accepting or rejecting what
has been done for them.
	Now what has polygamy to do with all this?
I answer, much every way. In the first place,
we believe that when our ancestors hear the
Gospel they will be anxious to have their de-
scendants officiate for them, and also regard it
as a sacred duty to do so, but as many families
are represented by one, the labor is too great,
and for this cause do many enter into polygamy
that they may rear up sons and daughters to
assist in the work for the dead. But not for
this cause alone; many are actuated by affection,
but they also accept it as a direct revelation
from God, given in order that every man may
have the privilege of raising a family who de-
sires to do so. Our marriage ceremonies
take no cognizance of death; our contracts of
marriage are entered into for time and all
eternity (with the exception of widows, who
sometimes marry, but always with the mutual
understanding, that they are to be given back
to their own husbands in eternity). Now what


fact becomes manifest, either that a man who
has the misfortune to lose the wife of his youth
shall remain single to the day of his death, or
be hereafter, if not here, what many regard
with horror, a polygamist, or should the wife of
his youth be so unfortunate as to bear him no
children, he must needs come up in eternity a
leafless branch With us motherhood is the
crowning glory of womanhood, our families
are not kept within fashionable and convenient
limits either by infanticide or abortion; every
child is welcomed as a heritage from God. I
do not assume that polygamy is a system cal-
culated to enhance earthly happiness; I scarcely
think there is any one who would hazard the
assertion, that man is made happier by the
care of a large family, or woman by the con-
sciousness of divided love, but certainly there
is no degradation in laying the holiest affection
of the heart on the altar of duty. Was Jesus
degraded by the cross, or the Apostles by being
put to ignominious deaths? This people re-
ceive and practise polygamy as a revelation
from God, and regarding it as they do, see no
more cause to blush for their marriage relations
than has innocence for being innocent or purity
for being pure. I shall make no effort to con-
ceal the fact, nor do I deem it necessary to
apologize, for that which must, unavoidably
exist in a community gathered as this has been,
from all parts of the world, viz; that there are
those among us of inferior minds incapable of
appreciating sacred things, and this holiest
principle of the Gospel is to them like casting
pearls before swine, but they, as well as the rest
of mankind, have a right to their agency, and
we have no right to restrict them in the exercise
of it. Plural marriage, to one who believes
that all ties will terminate with this life, and
that there is no necessity to lay a foundation
here for the life beyond, is not only unnecessary
but altogether undesireable, but to all who
accept it as a direct command from God, it is
not only essential but imperative, and no one
who so regards it could drop this tenet of their
faith without great violence to their conscience.
										L.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 183


[Column 1]
JENNY LIND GOLDSCHMIDT.

"She, more sweet than any bird on bough,
	Would often times amongst them have a part,
And strive to pass, as she could well enow,
	Their native language by her skilful art."

	What would life be without music, without
the sweet sounds that cheer and purify our
souls and bring us nearer heaven and nearer
God? There are few, if any, who have not
felt its holy influence. Even the song-bird, as
he flits from bough to bough, has a sweet song
of cheer for us all. There is nothing that so
soothes the troubled soul and calms it to rest.
Music has moved the heart that seemed as
stone and melted it to tears. It is the one art
that seems fitted to all times and places; it
matters not whether we are sad or joyous, we
still love music. Now and then we meet with
one of its great interpreters and of these per-
haps none are more worthy of the fame they
have acquired than is Jenny Lind.
	This queen of song was born at Stockholm,
Sweden, October 6th, 1821. Her parents,
though poor, were very respectable people, her
father being a teacher of languages, and her
mother a school mistress. When Jenny Lind
was twenty months old she could sing the
airs of her native land with great perfectness.
When three years of age she seemed to care
for nothing but music, and would sit alone for
hours and sing until her little heart would
swell with rapture, as she sung song after song
with the correctness and expression of a
woman. When she was nine years of age an
actress, by the name of Lunberg, while passing,
heard the silvery tones of her voice and was

[Column 2]
so charmed that she at once went to Jennie's
parents and persuaded them to allow her to be
trained for the opera. After gaining their
consent, Madame Lunberg had the pleasure of
conducting her to M. Croelius, one of the most
noted musicians of Sweden. He at once be-
came perfectly enchanted with her voice, as
well as the sweet simplicity of her manner, and
resolved to present her to Count Pucke, man-
ager of the king's theatre. It is customary in
Europe for conductors of royal opera houses
to educate and train pupils for the stage, and
they generally have a school attached for this
purpose. M. Croelius succeeded in presenting
her to the Count, but when he saw the pale
slender girl of ten years before him he said, in
a harsh tone, What! this ugly creature, with
such feet and such a face? She will never be
presentable. No, we can have nothing to do
with her. The old teacher became enraged
and knowing well the power of her voice said,
then, poor as I am, I will take her. The con-
ductor seemed not a little abashed, when he
heard the earnest remarks of the old gentleman
and after sometime he consented to hear the
child sing. And, as her little bosom swelled
with indignation, she sung such notes as she
had never sung in all her life. Before she had
finished her song it is needless to say that the
Count changed his mind, and she was at once
admitted to the school and placed under the
immediate training of the best musicians. Now
and then during the season the children of this
school were required to take part in little
plays written expressly for them, and it was in
one of these that Jenny Lind first made her
appearance before the public, in the eleventh
year of her age. Her part was that of a
beggar girl; it was not a favorite part, but she
sung with so much feeling that the whole
audience were spell-bound; she afterwards ap-
peared quite frequently in the little plays and
was so successful that all Stockholm considered
her a prodigy; but just when her future seemed
so bright, a cloud suddenly overspread her
horizon, her voice failed her; she gave up the
opera, but continued four years studying in-
strumental music and composition. During
these four years, that seemed a lifetime to the
poor disappointed girl, she had blossomed into
a beautiful woman. And on her seventeenth
birthday it so happened that a concert was
given, the principal feature of which was the
fourth act of Robert le Diable, in which the
part of Alice was assigned to her, she had but
one solo and that was generally any thing but
popular with singers; she studied it diligently
but feared greatly lest her voice should forsake
her, entirely. So long had it been since she
looked the public in the face, that she had
emerged from childhood to a woman, and she
determined to overcome her fright, and, strange
as it may seem, her voice returned in all its
wonderful power and her beautiful notes vi-
brated the hearts of all present so much so
that they rose to their feet and greeted her
with thunders of applause. The next morn-
ing the conductor, after congraulating her, told
her that she was cast for the very important
part of Agatha, in Der Frieschutz; no words
can express the joy she felt on learning this; she
had always longed to play this part more than
any other, but of late had almost given up her
loved desire. It is said that at the last rehear-
sal of this piece the musicians laid down their
instruments to applaud her, she sung with so
much power. This was her first appearance in
the royal opera and on the night of perform-
ance the spectators were not only pale with joy,
but there was scarcely one who did not shed
tears. This was followed by repeated sucesses
until she become the favorite of all Stockholm,
but her voice, from over exertion, she saw was
again failing her, and she felt the necessity of
having better instruction than her own country
afforded. She traveled through Norway and

[Column 3]
Sweden with her father, giving concerts in
order to obtain means to go to Paris and study
under Garcia. These concerts were a perfect
success, and she at once went to Paris. Her
interview with Garcia was very disheartening,
he told her that she had had a voice, but was
on the point of losing it. You must, he said,
rest for three months, and then return to me
and I will do all in my power for you. When
the time had expired she came back refreshed
and her voice was now ready for cultivation.
During her residence in Paris she had the honor
of singing before Meyerbeer, who instantly per-
ceived the fine quality of her voice; after this
he gave her a grand rehearsal with full orchestra;
she sung the solos in the scenes from the favorite
operas, and all the musicians were delighted
with her manner and voice. This completed her
musical education. She returned home, gave
performances, and received several invitations
to sing at Copenhagen, where she appeared be-
fore large audiences. The students of the
University there gave her a serenade by torch
light. This was indeed quite an honor, as she
was the first one on whom such favor had ever
been bestowed. She was very benevolent and
frequently gave concerts for the benefit of the
poor, and was always doing something for those
who needed assistance. At Berlin she was pro-
nounced the best singer in Europe, and at
Vienna her success was beyond all precedent.
She soon afterwards went to London to sing at the
Queen's Theatre, and while there it is said that
no one was more enchanted with her voice than
La Blanche the celebrated basso. He remark-
ed one evening that her every note was a pearl;
she was very much pleased with the compli-
ment, and sometime afterward, when she be-
came better acquainted with him she deter-
mined to remind him of the remark; she went
up to him and humbly asked him if he would be
kind enough to lend her his hat; he seemed
very much confused but immediately handed it
to her; she retired to a corner of the room and
after singing an air into the hat, she returned
and begging him to kneel, said, Signor, I have
made you a rich man, here is a hat full of
pearls. When she appeared in London the
theatre was wholly incapable of holding the
mass of people that poured forth from all parts
to hear this wonderful singer, and many
hundreds were unable to hear her at all, the
struggle for tickets was so great. After two
years of continued triumph, she concluded to
quit the stage and sing only in the concert room.
Her last performance on the stage was in May,
1849, when she played before the Queen of
England, and a vast assembly of distinguished
personages. In October, 1849, she came to
America. Thousands of people greeted her
on the shore when she landed. Her first ap-
pearance was at Castle Garden, where five
thousand people assembled. This was the
largest audience before which she had ever ap-
peared, and such was their appreciation, that
the last notes of her first song could not be heard
for the acclamations of joy from the people.
She sung all over the United States and gained
all the fame and honor possible for one to win
in the musical world. While in America, she
met Atto Goldschmidt, a pianist and composer
of great note, with whom she had studied in
Germany. Their friendship soon ripened into
love, and they were married at Boston, in 1851.
She resided for sometime in Northampton
Mass., and then returned to Europe. She has
always been admired by the English people for
her domestic accomplishments, and tender
attachment to home and family. The last
time that she appeared in public her voice
still retained all its sweetness and power. At
her home in London she has devoted a great
part of her time to training young ladies for
the concert room; but it will be long ere one
will attain the perfection of song that did
Jenny Lind.					BEATRICE.


184 WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RALPH WALDO EMERSON.

	Another poet passed away. Ralph Waldo
Emerson, the poet and philosopher, died on the
27th of April. This great man was born in Boston,
May 25th, 1803, and was educated at Harvard
College. He studied for the ministry, but
shortly abandoned the pulpit for the more con-
genial pursuit of literature and philosophy.
He lived in retirement at Concord, where he
wrote unceasingly, and from time to time has
laid his works before the public. He was a
correpondent of the North American Review
and other standard magazines. His writings
consisted principally of lectures, orations,
essays and poems. There has seldom been a
writer over whom there was such a diversity of
opinion. His essays are beautifully written,
but are more a display of scholarship than
deep thought. His poems are clothed in
beautiful and most striking language, but when
contemplated, his ideas appear neither new nor
true. He found more friends among the
passive objects of nature than in man's society,
and though his writings lacked wisdom and
reasoning they speak of the good and worth of
everything in such a way as to make one feel
there are

"Tongues in trees, books in the running brooks,
	Sermons in stones, and good in everything."
									A. W. C.


[Column 1]
THE DINING-ROOM.

	The dining-room should be one of the most
pleasant and sunny rooms in the house, in fact,
if it could be arranged, I would have the house
so constructed that the sun could shine in every
room from its first rising beam to the parting
glow that shimmers in the golden west.
	Oftentimes it is only in the dining-room
that the family meet during the week, except
on Sunday. Father and the older boys are off
to business before the little folks' eyes are open,
or the young ladies have recovered from the
effects of the last night's dance. Eeverything in
this room should suggest pleasant thoughts.
What a depressing effect one of those dark, sep-
ulchral apartments has on every appetite except
the most healthy! It is more suggestive of cof-
fins and the dampness of the charnel house,
than of good cheer, and the mirth that is so
great a foe to dyspepsia. A few bright, well
chosen pictures should adorn the walls, but if
you keep a boarding house, and wish to save
provisions, select those representing murders,
executions, and other equally festive scenes.
	If this room is also used as the family sitting-
room and library, a book case should stand in
one corner, and a cabinet of curiosities be placed
in some convenient spot, while a small table for
mother's sewing, and several low easy chairs
and ottomans should not be forgotten. A fer-
ney, or a few pot plants are desirable. An
English ivy trained round the room has a
charming effect, and requires but little care, as
it will endure a considerable degree of cold.
	In these days very few use the old-fashioned
square table, but if you must use one, have the
corners taken off, and then get a couple of
rounded pieces made to fit on the ends. These
can be fastened on by means of two strips of
board nailed on the under side; and then run
through the boxing of the table in holes sawed
for the purpose. To get this done requires but
little trouble or expense, and you will be amply
repaid by its greater convenience and the bet-
ter style in which such a shaped table can be
set.
	It is always economy to buy good table linen.
A course, rough, brown table-cloth gives every-
thing a cheap, soiled appearance, while if a good
quality of white is chosen, everything will wear
an inviting look. A fine, well-ironed table-
cover, if brushed after each meal instead of be-
ing shaken, and with mats under hot dishes,

[Column 2]
and an oil-cloth under the little one's plate,
should last two weeks, and look better at the
end of that time than a clean brown one.
Washing and ironing wear linen more than the
actual use, and by economizing in these pro-
cesses, you will soon save enough to pay for the
increased expense.
	By keeping the table constantly set, you will
save much time and troubled hurry, when pre-
paring for a meal. Clean the cloth after meals
with a brush kept for the purporse. A clean
wing will answer. If you take it off, be sure
to fold in the same creases in which it was
folded when ironed. Let the castor, spoon-
holder, sugar-bowl and salts remain on from
time to time. After everything is arranged,
cover between meals with an old table-cloth, too
thin for further use, freshly ironed, and stiffened
with thin starch, or a piece of white net such
as is used for fly screens.
	If you are obliged to use one room for both
kitchen and dining-room, it will, perhaps, be
necessary to have the dining table cleared and
set back during the afternoon, but when laid
for dinner, let it remain till after breakfast
next morning. Those who have never tried
this plan will be surprised at the comfort it will
give, and the time and labor it will save.
	Nice mats for hot dishes and tea-pots can be
crocheted out of tidy cotton, in the ordinary
close stitch. If you wish them very thick,
crochet them over wicking, Very handsome
ones can also be made by covering round or ob-
long pieces of pasteboard, with scarlet opera
flannel, and then sewing on the common white
crimped buttons which can be bought for a
cent or two a dozen. Use any design you
please.
	A cosey to keep the tea hot can be made
from the flannel cut to fit the pot, the buttons
put on in a tasty manner, and a loop handle
made at the top by which to remove it. Line
with several thicknesses of flannel, old is just
as good. If the family are regular to their
meals, the tea or coffee may be further kept hot
by placing the pot on a thick piece of iron like
a scale weight, or on a round piece of freestone,
heated for the purpose.
	Have all food cut squarely and evenly, and
served in the best possible shape. Crumbs, ir-
regular sections of pie, sloppy dishes and dis-
order, have a evry depressing effect on the
appetite.—Ex.


THE Married Woman's Property Bill was
introduced in the House of Lords by the LORD
CHANCELLOR. It has passed through the stage
of committee, and will in all probability pass the
third reading in the House of Lords, and come
down to the House of Commons soon after the
Easter recess. The Bill, as it now stands as am-
ended by the LORD CHANCELLOR, though in some
respects capable of improvement, is so great an
advance of justice compared with the existing
rule, that we should have cause for the deepest
thankfulness if it becomes law.
	The fate of the measure in the House of
Commons will depend greatly on the exigencies
of the session, and on the degree of support
which may be given it by the Government. If
it can be brought on without obstruction and
discussed upon its merits, there can be little
doubt of the result. The principle of the Bill
was accepted in the measure which was passed
for Scotland last session, and the mind of the
Legislature is now so fully committed to it that
the enactment of a measure to secure to married
women absolute posssssion and full control of
their own property seems only a question of
time and adequate efforts on behalf of those in-
terested in the subject.—Ex.


It is said that Senators Cockrell and Vest
favor the appointment of Phebe Cousins as
one of the Utah commissioners.


AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obein the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office on Main Street, over Hardy Bros. Store.

Special Study has been given to Surgery, Diseases
of Women, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS,

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLES, old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,		Brown Yarns, 	Cotton Batting
Flannels, 		White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls, 			Colored Yarns	 Brooms,
Linseys,			Cassimers,	 Washboards,
Jeans, 			Tweeds, 		Brushes, Etc., Etc.

PALACE OF FASHION No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Spring and Summer Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, CAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.
☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 303, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 10	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1882	No.24.


"THE LORD GOD OMNIPOTENT
REIGNETH"

A SONG DEDICATED TO PRES. JOHN TAYLOR.

The day of redemption, so near is at hand—
	We can sing in despite of oppression;
But never, to meet e'en a nation's demand
	Will we feign either fear, or depression;
The foes of our faith, like the billows, may foam
	"But a rest for the Saints yet remaineth,"
So we'll sing and rejoice in our own mountain home,
	That "the Lord God Omnipotent reigneth."

Proscribed, for opinion, in liberty’s land—
	Face we bondage, misrule and disaster;
Yet e'en unto death, by the truth may we stand,
	And be leal to our Lord and our Master.
But sooner the ocean may quieted be,
	And sooner may mortals enchain it,
Than souls can be fettered, whom truth maketh free,
	While "the Lord God Omnipotent reigneth."

The heralds of truth yet shall compass the earth;
	And gather "the wheat" to the garner;
The honest will welcome the tidings of worth
	Undismay'd by the wrath of the scorner.
The law of Jehovah we needs must fulfill,
	We cannot reject or disdain it:
'Tis "the hour of his judgment," and scoffers will feel
	That "the Lord God Omnipotent reigneth."

"From the wise and the prudent," the haughty and high
	The loftiest truths are oft hidden;
To "the feast of the Bridegroom" whose coming is nigh,
	The halt, and the humble are bidden,
Through obedience, the Lord doth a witness bestow;
	Who e'er thus desireth, obtaineth;
And thus do his people assuredly know
	That "the Lord God Omnipotent reigneth."

Shall we barter our souls for a nation's applause,
	That denies us fair representation?
Are we traitors? Nay, verily, just is our cause;
	'Twill survive e'en unjust legislation.
The faith of the Saints shall astonish the world,
	And puzzle the wise to explain it;
Hosanna! hosanna! Truth's flag is unfurled;
	And "the Lord God Omnipotent reigneth."

	EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
Salt Lake City, May 1st, 1882.


[Column 1]
A REPRESENTATIVE WOMAN.

MARY ISABELLA HORNE.

	It is a pleasant duty to review the lives of
those who have ever nobly borne their part, in
the great battle of life,and record a few of the
most noteworthy incidents connected with their
history, It is but just to publish concerning
those who have been foremost workers in some
good undertaking; who have proudly dis-
tinguished themselves, and achieved good for
their race; it is but just I say, to publish these
facts, for the benefit of others; that after gen-
erations may know what eminent examples
have been furnished them, and by whom.
	The history of this Church, when it is fully
written, will contain much in relation to wo-
man's work,and it is well that our readers should
know who some of these illustrious women are,
who were their antcedents, and what they have
done.
	The lady whose name is prefixed above, is
well known to most of our people. At the
present time she holds prominent public posi-
tions, and has for some years past been actively
engaged a great portion of the time doing pub-
lic duty. Let us go back to her origin and
early life and see how she came to be endowed

[Column 2]
with such strength of character. Mrs. Horne
says,
	"I was born on the 20th day of November,
1818, in the town of Rainham, County of Kent,
England. I am the daughter of Stephen and
Mary Ann Hales, and the eldest daughter of a
large family. My parents were honest, indus-
trious people. I was taught to pray when very
young, to be honest and truthful, to be kind to
my associates, and to do good to all around
us.
	"My early years were spent in attending
school, and in assisting my mother in domestic
duties.
	I took great delight in my studies at school,
when I could be spared from my duties at
home. I improved every opportunity that I
could get in gleaning knowledge."
	Sister Horne as a child, was industrious dili-
gent, persevering and exemplary. The same
characteristics that have developed into such
sublime strength and made her so self-reliant,
and helpful to others,were apparent in her child
hood, and no doubt she inherited many of these
noble traits of character from a long line of
ancestry. Her father was a Methodist, and her
mother a member of the Church of England.
Mrs. Horne as a child had strong religious tend-
encies, and consequently clung more to the faith
of her father, in which there was more of the
spiritual and less of ceremonious form, than in
the Church of which her mother was a member.
Mrs. Horne was in childhood a regular attend-
ant at Sunday School,to which she was specially
attached, as it not only was another source of
gaining intelligence, but fed and fostered the
growth of her spiritual inclinations. When re-
quested by her Sabbath School teacher to com-
mit to memory, two or three verses from the
Bible, she would learn a whole chapter or per-
haps two, and recite without being prompted.
In this way she became familiar with the
Scriptures, and her young mind thus impressed
with beautiful truths from the words of our
Savior, prophets and apostles, she was well
prepared to receive in due time, the Gospel of
the new and last dispensation. When only in
her eleventh year,she became so fascinated with
the Bible, that her leisure hours after the la-
bors of the day were over, were employed in
reading and studying the history and incidents,
the sublime parables and teachings contained
in that sacred work.
	In 1832 Mrs. Horne's parents decided to
emigrate, and after considering Van Dieman's
land somewhat favorably, finally concluded to
go to Upper Canada. They sailed from Eng-
land on the 16th of April. The family con-
sisted of Mr. and Mrs. Hales, five sons and two
daughters, Mary Isabella (now Mrs. Horne)
being the eldest of the two. The sea voyage
was tedious; the mother was sick during the
entire voyage, and one little boy died upon the
way, and was consigned to a watery grave.
The ship anchored at Quebec, and after perils
by sea, storms and dangers, the Hales arrived
in York on the 16th day of June 1832, stran-
gers in a strange land; and there they found that
dread disease, the cholera, making fearful rav-
ages; but the Lord preserved them all in health.
The following Spring, 1833, the family removed
to the country, about eight miles from York.
Mrs. Hales' health was delicate and conse-
quently the care of the large family devolved
upon Mary Isabella, though only fifteen years
of age, but she was quite equal to the man-
agement of household affairs, and scrupulously

[Column 3]
conscientious in regard to her duty in honor
and obedience to her parents.
	In the Spring of 1834, she attended a Meth-
odist Camp-meeting in the neighborhood, where
she first met Mr. Joseph Horne, and subse-
quently became intimately acquainted, the
friendship ripening into love, and two years
afterwards Joseph Horne and Mary Isabella
Hales, were united in marriage on the 9th day
of May, 1836. The young husband owned a
farm and there the young couple took up their
abode in a house of their own, with everything
around them comfortable, and the feeling that
they had settled down for life.

To be Continued.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	Before closing the correspondence between
my parents during their separation in 1839 and
40, I will copy a few extracts from another
of my mother's letters to father.
	She writes: "I must tell you a little more
about our English sisters. One week ago
yesterday a number of them came to see me.
I will mention their names, Sister Pool, Sister
Ware, Sisters Margaret and Lydia Moon, and
Susannah Moon. I must say I never enjoyed
a visit better. They seemed as glad to see me
as though we had always been acquainted.
When they first came in, after shaking hands
with me, the next object that caught their eyes
was our little David, "Ah!" said they, "there
is Heber, see his eyes." They then went to the
bed to lay off their things, and there beheld
your portrait, and such another ado I never
heard. "Oh!" said they, "it is so like him,"
and then they wept like children, and all said
I must give their best love to you. All of the
English Saints, that I have seen seem to be
contented and happy; but I am told that some
of them murmur very much, especially the
B——s, I expect they have got too much money
to be happy here.
	"Brother Lyman Johnson, called the day
that the sisters were here, and had quite a chat
with them. They all sang so beautifully that
it was quite a paradise. One of their songs
was for you to come to Zion instead of to Eng-
land. Sister Moon says that I must expect to
have my house full for a time after you come
home. Please give my love to Elders Wood-
ruff and Smith, and tell them I thank them for
the few lines they wrote me. Tell Brother
Woodruff his wife left here in company with
two of her brothers, about a week before Elder
Turley arrived. She proposes visiting her
parents in the State of Maine, and remain un-
til her husband returns from Europe. You
can inform him, that the things sent to his
wife all came safe, and I have them in my care
agreeable to her request.	* * * The child-
ren are impatient to have you come home; you
are losing all of the most interesting part of
little David's life. A child is never so pretty
and interesting as when they first begin to
walk and talk. He is now well and goes prat-
tling about the house, and you may be assured
we all think him very cunning. He is called
Heber altogether by the neighbors. Every
one says that ought to be his name. Brother
Charles C. Rich says, "if he lives he will look
as much like you as Seth did like Adam—who


[Column 1]

could only be distinguished by their eyes.
Brother Rich and wife send much love to you,
also Brother Hubbard and wife, and family,
and all of the neighbors. Sisters Sarah Milli-
can and Louisa Beamen, were here yesterday
and wished to be remembered to you and breth-
ren, also Sisters Laura and Abigail Pitkin,
they are faithful to pray for you. They say
you promised if they would be, they should be
partakers of your blessings. Please give my
love to all your quorum and all the Saints who
enquire after me. We are all well except
William, who has just got his ankle bruised
with a wagon running over it; but I think the
bone is not hurt. Your Journal is now in
press. Now farewell my dear Heber, and may
the Lord bless and comfort your heart in Christ
is the prayer of your unworthy companion,"
		VILATE KIMBALL.
	The Journal which my mother mentioned as
being in press,is now at the Juvenile Instructor
Office, where I have lately sent it, and it may
be in the press, which is quite a coincidence be-
ing about forty years from the time that it was
first published in Nauvoo and this was an old
number found among my father's papers.
	The following interesting incident was re-
lated to me by Brother Charles W. Hubbard
who stayed with us a portion of the time during
our late Conference. As is well known Presi-
dent Young was very sick when he crossed the
Mississippi River, and was brought by a brother
to the house of Heber C. Kimball, the day be-
fore they started upon their mission to Europe.
My father was also sick with the same disease
(ague) but after the fever went off he climbed
upon his house and was trying to finish the
roof when his brother missionary (Brigham
Young) came out to walk a little to try his
strength, but in the effort fainted and fell to
the ground. Father not having strength to
lift him, called to brother Charles W. Hub-
bard, who lived just across the river, to come
and assist him in bringing President Young in-
to the house; where, after placing him upon
the bed, they administered to him and again
he recovered. Bro. Hubbard said that father
followed him to the door, as he started for
home, and said, "Charley I doubt very much if
Brigham ever rises from that bed;" but had
no sooner uttered the words, than he spoke up
as with another voice and said, "He shall live
and start upon his mission with me tomorrow
morning;" and sure enough they did start the
next morning, as (I think) no other missionar-
ies ever did, and they performed the work for
which they were sent, as the following from the
Prophet Joseph's History will show.
	"All the quorum of the Twelve Apostles
who were expected here this season, with the
exception of Willard Richards and Wilford
Woodruff, have arrived.
	"We have listened to the accounts which
they give of their success, and prosperity of the
work of the Lord in Great Britain, with pleas-
ure. They certainly have been instruments in
the hands of God, of accomplishing much, and
must have the satisfaction of knowing that
they have done their duty. Perhaps no men
over undertook such an important mission un-
der such peculiarly distressing, forbidding and
unpropitious circumstances. Most of them,
when they left this place, nearly two years ago,
were worn down with sickness and disease, or
were taken sick on the road. Several of their
families were also afflicted, and needed their
aid and support. But knowing that they had
been called by the God of heaven, to preach
the Gospel to other nations, they conferred not
with flesh and blood, but obedient to the heav-
enly mandate, without purse or scrip, com-
menced a journey of five thousand miles en-
tirely dependent on the providence of that God
who had called them to such a holy calling.
	"While journeying to the seaboard, they
were brought into many trying circumstances. 

[Column 2]

After a short recovery from severe sickness
they would be taken with a relapse, and have
to stop among strangers, without money and
without friends. Their lives were several times
despaired of, and they have taken each other
by the hand, expecting it was the last time
they should behold one another in the flesh.
	Notwithstanding their afflictions and trials,
the Lord always interposed in their behalf, and
did not suffer them to sink into the arms of
death. Some way or other was made for their
escape; friends rose up when they most needed
them, and relieved their necessities, and thus
they were enabled to pursue their journey and
rejoice in the holy one of Israel. They truly
went forth weeping, bearing precious seed, but
have returned rejoicing bearing their sheaves
with them."
	What, but religion could have prompted the
Apostles and Elders of this Church, to leave
their homes, wives, children and every earthly
tie, taking their lives in their hands, as they
did, to go forth into the world without purse or
scrip, which they have done from the beginning
until the present time? The Elders of this
Church have never preached for hire, no nor
have the poor, whom they have converted and
gathered to Zion, ever been shut out from the
congregations, because they were unable for-
sooth, to pay for a pew, or to make a display, of
the latest and richest styles of dress and bon-
nets etc.; but the rich and poor have fared
alike; though many, because of prosperity,
have become lifted up in the pride of their
hearts, and seem to have forgotten the Hand
that led them forth from the darkness, ignor-
ance and bondage, in which they were held in
their native lands, making them a free and
happy people, and have sought with far greater
energy for the wealth and honors of the world,
than for the love of the Father who giveth or
taketh away, as seemeth Him good. But they
are not the ones who will come up in remem-
brance before Him, for He says "Blessed are ye
poor for yours is the kingdom of God." "But
wo unto you that are rich for ye have received
your consolation."
	We read that our Savior was lowly, unedu-
cated, and much poorer in worldly circum-
stances, than was Joseph Smith the Prophet,
and his friends and associates (according to
history) were also of a poorer class, simple in
their ways and habits, and if He "had to sink
below all things, that He might rise above all
things," then how can any one else expect to
be exalted or to dwell with Him in the
eternal worlds, unless they are willing to fol-
low in his footsteps; to be humbled, chastened,
scourged and afflicted, and endure all things?
For He says "I will have a tried people,', and
"Whom the Lord loveth He chasteneth and
scourgeth every one whom he receiveth." The
chaff must be sifted out. The allurements
which are thrown around us are very great and
so dazzle the eye, that unless we keep a faithful
guard over ourselves—holding on to the Iron
Rod, we are in great danger of being swallowed
up, in the same whirlpool where so many have
been lost; "Selling their birthright for a mess
of pottage," and would have sunk to rise no
more.
	Those who have not the knowledge and as-
surance that the course which they are pursuing
is according to the will of God, cannot endure
all these afflictions and persecutions, taking
joyfully the spoiling of their goods and even if
necessary to suffer death, by the hands of their
foes. They will grow weary and faint and fall
by the way unless they have unshaken con-
fidence and a perfect knowledge for themselves.
They cannot make a sacrifice of their character
and reputation; and give up their houses, their
lands, brothers, sisters, wives and children;
counting all things as dross, when compared
with the eternal life and exaltation, which
our Savior has promised to the obedient; and

[Column 3]

this knowledge is not obtained without a strug-
gle nor the glory without a sacrifice of all
earthly things. In the last days (we read) the
Lord is to gather together his Saints who
have made covenant with Him by sacrifice and
each one must know that their sacrifice is ac-
cepted as did righteous, Abel and Abraham
the Father of the faithful. Every Latter-day
Saint knows this to be true, and that ac-
cording to our faith so are our blessings and
privileges.
	Anciently, we read, that nothing was with-
held from the ones whose faith was sufficient
to receive it. The mouths of the lions were
stopped, and the violence of fire quenched, they
were valiant in fight, and escaped the edge of
the sword, and put to flight the armies of the
aliens. Women, by their faith, recieved their
dead children to life again, and obtained heav-
enly visions, the ministry of angels, and some
became familiar with the third heavens, saw
and heard things which were unutterable, and
unlawful to utter. Many of the Saints can
testify that they have witnessed just as power-
ful miraculous manifestations, as did the an-
cient women of Scripture, so have many of the
"Mormon" women obtained heavenly visions,
their sick have been healed and even the dead
raised to life again.
	A grand and glorious work is this which the
Lord has set his hand for the last time to per-
form, and how vain and worthless is the wealth
and pomp of this lower world, when compared
with the great exaltation and glorious riches of
eternity which will endure forever; and how
small and insignificant does it make the works
of man appear to Saints of God, who are awake
and have in weakness girded on the armor of
truth and righteousness, and now stand firm
upon the watch tower waiting to witness the
Grand Tableau, yea, the closing, the winding
up scene of the Almighty King of Kings, and
Lord of Lords who has ever been our friend
and advocate and his spirit still whispers to
his Saints, Fear not for as the poet said:

	"I have beheld my love and mercy scorned;
	Have seen my laws despised, my name blasphemed,
	My providence accused, my gracious plans
	Opposed; and long, too long, have I beheld
	The wicked triumph, and my saints reproached
	Maliciously, while on my altars lie,
	Unansered still, their prayers and their tears,
	Which seek my coming, wearied with delay:
	And long disorder in my moral reign
	Has walked rebelliously, disturbed the peace,
	Of my eternal government, and wrought,
	Confusion spreading far and wide among
	My works inferior, which groan to be
	Released."
		—Pollock's Course of Time.
To be continued.


186	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE CAPTIVE HEART.

My heart was like a caged bird,
	That slipped its prison bars one day;
And thro' the bright empyrean blue,
	From home and friends soared far away.

While skimming thro' the linden trees
	It stopped to chant a simple lay;
And looking downward saw forsooth,
	One of God's angels pass that way.

A form so fair of heavenly mold,
	Moving along with dainty grace.
That e'en the earth-flowers crowd her path,
	They rare had seen so sweet a face.

The bird its heavenward course forgot,
	And quickly back to earth it flew;
Into that bosom nestling crept,
	Captive again for love of you.

						ELLEN B. FERGUSON.
Salt Lake City, Feb. 1881.


Ralph Waldo Emerson, signed the call for
the first woman's right convention ever held in
Mass. It met at Worcester, Oct. 1850.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 187


GOOD-BYE, PROUD WORLD.

Good-bye, proud world! I'm going home;
	Thou art not my friend; I am not thine;
Too long through weary crowds I roam;—
	A river ark on the ocean brine;
Too long I am tossed like the driven foam;
But now, proud world, I'm going home!

Good-bye to Flattery's fawning face,
To Grandeur with his wise grimace;
To upstart Wealth's averted eye,
To supple office, low and high;
To crowded halls, to court and street;
To frozen hearts and hasting feet;
To those who go and those who come,
Good-bye, proud world, I'm going home.

I go to seek my own hearth stone,
Bosomed in yon green hills alone;
A secret lodge in a pleasant land,
Whose groves the frolic fairies planned,
Whose arches green the livelong day
Echo the blackbird's roundelay,
And evil men have never trod
A spot that is sacred to thought and God!

Oh, when I am safe in my sylvan home
I mock at the pride of Greece and Rome;
And when I am stretched beneath the pines,
Where the evening star so holy shines,
I laugh at the lore and pride of man,
At the sophist schools, and the learned clan;
For what are they all in their high conceit,
When man in the bush with God may meet?

					RALPH WALDO EMERSON.
"The Watchman."	1882.


[Column 1]

BIBLE DOCTRINE.

	We, as a community, feel thankful for the
good will Mrs. Scott manifests towards us in
asking at the right source whether these things
said of us are true. The Savior said, "Blessed
are ye when men shall hate you," etc. "Rejoice
ye in that day, and leap for joy." St. Luke,
chapter vi. Now we do not wish to be under-
stood by saying, "We mind our own business,"
that we do not wish a candid and thorough
investigation of our principles and of our
motives in the full belief in all good that em-
anates from God our Heavenly Father, which
we have embraced, and accepted for our salva-
tion in this life and hereafter. We thank you for
your noble-mindedness of inquiry, your sus-
pended judgement until convinced by stronger
testimony than by an enemy to the religious
views of our domestic happiness, and our
rights which we, in common with others, claim
in a Christian land. We wish more of our
sisters abroad would come forward, as you
have done, and make it their particular bus-
iness to inquire into all matters pertaining to
us, in relation to the truth, and we shall take
great pleasure in answering questions in a
Christian-like manner. We will talk together,
not for evil, but to bring about good results
and fellowship with the honest and upright in
heart.
	You say you do not believe in Mormon-
ism, perhaps you might believe in the book
called "the Book of Mormon," if you should
read its contents; it is a historical record of
the ancient people of this continent, handed
down by them for many generations. It was
kept and preserved and brought to light by
one of their Prophets. The origin of that
ancient people is a mystery to the world, but if
they would read the "Book of Mormon," it
would be so no longer, but prejudice blinds the
eyes of mortals, and they remain ignorant.
Why is this? Because judgement is passed
without investigation. Now Ann Eliza, the
lecturer, is acting under different motives
altogether from what we are. She acts, writes
and, speaks to put money into the pockets of
her helpers, who are ever on the alert to feed
the public on trash and falsehood to get gain,

[Column 2]

which is a very easy way to live without hard
work. We will lay belief on one side in set-
ting forth our principles, for we have actual
knowledge. Before we received the ordinances
of the Gospel, we believed and were baptized
for the remission of our sins; we had hands
laid upon our heads by men holding the Priest-
hood of the Son of God, by which the Holy
Ghost was conferred upon us, which is the
pattern that was given to the former day Saints.
The Spirit, thus received, brings all things to
our remembrance, things past, present and to
come; now if we deny the spirit of revelation
we cannot possess it. This gives us actual
knowledge without a doubt. We receive the
gift of the Gospel. Please read St. Mark, last
chapter, and read the Savior's words, "Go
ye into all the world and preach the Gospel to
every creature." Would it not make thousands
of infidels if this Gospel could be changed to
other forms? We are persecuted because we
believe in its unchangeable laws, "Though the
heavens and earth shall pass away, not one jot
or tittle of my word shall fail." Now I can
quote many passages of Scripture to substan-
tiate this, which can be read at leisure:
"Though we, or an angel from heaven, preach
any other doctrine than that we have preaced,
let him be accursed." Peter, when preaching
in Jerusalem, convinced his hearers, and they
said: "What shall we do?" Then Peter said un-
to them, "Repent and be baptized, every one
of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the re-
mission of your sins," etc. The Acts, chapter ii.
Second Epistle of John. "He that abideth in
the doctrine of Christ, he hath both the Father
and the Son;" also, "There is but one faith,
one Lord and one baptism." Read Revelations,
chapter xiv: "And I saw another angel fly
through the midst of heaven having the ever-
lasting Gospel to preach unto them that dwell on
the earth and to every nation, kindred, tougue
and people." Ever lasting, unchangeable, to be
preached to the inhabitants of the earth for
their salvation and eternal glory. After hav-
ing our minds enlightened by the spirit of di-
vine truth, we cannot be persuaded to relin-
quish our principles or go back into the old
beaten track of ignorance—modern civilization.
Well, our paper is small, and I must draw my
subject to a close, as others will want room to
express their views, as the questions advanced
by Mrs. Scott for our consideration involve
much in thought and research, especially in
relation to rewards and punishment.
	MARY ANN M. PRATT.
Salt Lake City, April, 25th, 1882.


[Column 1]﻿
MRS. EMILY SCOTT.

	Dear Lady: Do not for a moment think
because I have been silent with regard to your
letters in the EXPONENT, that I have felt
apathetic, no indeed. They have been quite
refreshing to me, to find there is, at least, one
mind out in that world we came from, who is
so honest as to say she "does not believe in
Mormonism, neither one half of what is said
against it."  Good my Lady!  again, you "went
to hear Ann Eliza's lecture," and you were
neither amused or edified.  Does she always
read the same words?  How she must weary
people who have any brains, and make use
of them!  it really does not speak loudly to me
in favor of her audiences; thank Heaven I was
not one of them!  for such an audience must
possess a morbid, vitiated taste, that could list-
en to the Parrot talk of such a palmipede Lect-
urer (?) (save the mark)—I have not the least
possible desire to proselyte you, or any other
person, not even my own "Kith and Kin."
My religion is too precious to intrude on "peo-
ple we meet."  I embraced it with an honest
heart, and have done my best to live up to its
precepts and requirements, for the last thirty

[Column 2]
years and have never seen the first moment
that I repented of that grand epoch of my life.
Paul said, he "became a fool for the Gospel's
sake"—and he was an educated man, taught
at the feet of Gamaliel, his sublime address to
King Agrippa testifies of this, after all these
centuries of increased accumulated learning,
that he was an accomplished scholar—yet he
said the words I have quoted.  So I with a de-
cent stock of school education and a far higher
one acquired in my beloved home, my parents
being my preceptors—I, too became a fool
for the Gospel's sake; but let me define this,
—I laid my heart and brain upon the altar
and many of the dogmas of the High Church
of England,in which I was raised and educated,
vacated my cushioned Pew in the dear old
Church (I mean of course the building) and
attended a Chapel where we sat on benches
beside the poor, the unlearned, the humble,
and the unsophisticated, with of course excep-
tions to all these, for the net was to gather of
every kind.  There we assembled in a happy
congregation of Latter-day Saints, obeyed the
Laws laid down by our Savior literally; entered
by the door at which He had passed thro' be-
fore us, setting an example to all who would
hereafter take the name of Christian.
	I virtually laid my all upon the altar, if
need be—if this and much more constitutes me
"a fool for the Gospel's sake," I willingly
claim the title! but my experience realized to
me that I sprang to a higher degree of intelli-
gence, and have so continued! here Paul and
I appear to differ; but when we meet I have
no doubt we shall see eye to eye, as we both
obeyed the same laws, laid down by the same
Master.  I do not pretend to assert that the
mighty heterogeneous masses of people that
have been gathered into the Church of Jesus
Xt. are all Saints in very deed; that is neither
probable, or possible, but I do know that a
large majority are the honest and pure from
all nations, desiring to know the right way, and
to walk therein.  All this mighty Gospel ed-
ucation you may be sure is not acquired with-
out much labor, trial and it may be suffering.
When a child is sent from home to "Boarding
school," does it not suffer in its feelings and
affections?  Does it not find the lessons hard to
learn?  Oh! sometimes so hard! but it is placed
there in kindness, for its own benefit, and that
it may hereafter be a blessing to all associated
with it; and that it may become useful "in its
day and generation."  The L. D. S., are in
the Lord's school, the highest yet upon the
earth.  Those who enter in ignorance soon be-
come well informed and intelligent, they are
taught true principles, and then they govern
themselves of course; as a natural consequence
the most assiduous, soon become the most
efficient; but stay!—You'll think I'm preach-
ing!
	If you desire to ask me any question, either
through the EXPONENT, or by private letter, I
shall be pleased to answer to the best of my
ability.  Don't trouble your mind about Poly-
gamy (that is not our word) because that it is
now a forbidden thing.  We have now become,
under the iron rod of Priestcraft, in the free Re-
public of America!! When that is settled,
what next?  For that is only the first letter of
the clerical alphabet "they" intend to teach us.
Polygamy is a detestable word to me, coming
out of mouths that speak neither with the
"spirit, nor with the understanding." I have
written as fast as the pen could transcribe my
thoughts and ideas; truth is easily told and
needs no forethought circumlocution—it is a
God-like word—but is almost obsolete in some
places; were it the universal motto, how much
sorrow, and sin, would be wiped from the
earth.
		Your friend,
					HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City May 5th, 1882.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time. $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN’S EXPONENT
			Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, - May 15. 1882.


VOLUME TEN.

	The present number closes the tenth volume
of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT. So far it has re-
ceived favorable consideration, but the number
of subscribers is not sufficient as yet to warrant
any change in its publication. We had ardently
hoped to enlarge the paper this year, but in view
of the peculiar circumstances of this people at
the present time, we think it wisdom to continue
for this year without making any change
whatever. If the sisters could but realize the
importance of the paper, the great good it is cer-
tainly doing, of the representation it gives the
women of this people abroad, and the real, one
might almost say desperate need, there is of
their representing themselves instead of being
represented by those who do not and cannot
possibly understand the motives by which they
are actuated, there would soon be a sufficient
number of subscriptions, and the paper might
be issued weekly or enlarged. We call upon all
Latter-day Saint women to consider this subject
carefully and use their influence to obtain sub-
scriptions for the paper, so as to make it not only
possible, but easy to have the paper either en-
larged or issued weekly. Had we double the
number we have, it could be done. Trusting ere
long to see our list largely increased so as to meet
the wishes and needs of the people in this re-
spect, we thank the many friends of the EXPO-
NENT, for their patronage and hope to make
the paper more and more, interesting and a still
better help to the women of Utah, in the future
than it has been in the past.


ELECTION DAY.

	Let no person forget the election on Monday,
the 23rd of May. This people should show their
strength in the vote cast for the Constitution of
the proposed State. The Lord has in many in-
stances blest in a visible manner the efforts
made by this people to obtain justice, even
though the rulers of the nation refused and re-
jected their intercessions with scorn. It may be
so now. "Our cause is just," and the event is
in the hands of One, who doeth all things
well.


[Column 1]

THE TIMES ARE OUT OF JOINT.

	The sentiment expressed by Shakespeare
which is quoted above, is certainly applicable to
the present time. There is abundant evidence
of this to every reflective mind. The daily pa-
pers are filled with accounts of crimes, accidents,
death and disaster sickening to read; and one
cannot help longing for relief from these horrors
of every day occurrence. Where is the union
of purpose for the good of mankind, and the
security of life and liberty in the strength of
kingdoms and nations, that ought to character-
ize this age of boasted civilization, this enlight-
ened, highly cultured nineteenth century?

[Column 2]

	The record of the past year was filled, one
might say, with calamities. The assassination of
the Czar, and the foul murder of Pros. Garfield,
would indeed indicate that a spirit of lawlessness
and bloodshed was abroad in the world, that
made even kings and rulers stand in awe in
view of the dreadful evils that might in a mo-
ment overtake them. In the present year the
same spirit seems raging in the hearts of the
wicked urging them on to evil deeds. The at-
tempted assassination of Queen Victoria took
everybody by surprise; so good and noble a
Queen has seldom lived, and hard hearted in-
deed must be the villain who could pollute his
hands with the innocent blood of royalty. Fol-
lowing close upon that foul deed two faithful
administrators of Her Majesty's laws are mur-
dered in cold blood when sent to concilliate a
part of her people whose welfare and happiness
she desired to promote. Alas, poor unfortunate
Ireland, for there indeed "the times are out of
joint."
	How is it with our own beloved country "the
land of the free and the home of the brave."
Witness the controversy of the Congress of the
United States, on some most important matters
under consideration during the present session of
that honorable body. The legislation concerning
Utah, is only one of these, but the persecution
of a people because of their religion, in a land of
free thought and "the birthplace of free religious
liberty" plainly proves "the times are out of
joint."
	Have the great men of the nation left God
out of their Councils? If so, then indeed may
they fear and tremble. One can but think they
have, when they seek to oppress and break down
a handful of people who had sought refuge from
their cruel oppressors in the fastnesses of the
Mountains; where they had peopled the desert
and made it habitable for men, and only asked
the protection of the God of heaven, and the re-
cognition by the nation, of their rights as citiz-
ens, to which thousands of them were entitled
by birth, and all by the right of that honest
toil, that untiring industry which made the bar-
ren land fruitful, and its cities fair to look upon;
only the rights guaranteed to every man to man-
tain his manhood, these are the heritage of a
free-born people.

	Men who their duties know,
But know their rights, and, knowing dare maintain.

	How can Congress consistently with the spirit
of liberty, compel a people to renounce the prac-
tise of any principle of their religion? This is
indeed a paradox. It may be asserted that mar-
riage is no part of religion, but would not that
be a contradiction of all established precedents?
Do not all religious denominations marry accord-
ing to their own peculiar forms, or ceremonies,
and do they not make use of such words as seem
to them the most appropriate in performing this
sacred ordinance. Assuredly they do, and ever
have done. If the Edmund's bill should be en-
forced as it is understood by those who framed
it, then indeed will "the times be out of joint"
in Utah, where now life and property are most
secure, and where God's laws are held pre-em-
inent. The plans of wicked men to restrain and
curtail the liberties of a free people yea, even to
enslave them will be a vexation to this nation
for all time to come; their Councils will be con-
fused and their deliberations brought to naught.
They have sewn the wind they will reap the
whirlwind! Lying spirits have gone abroad over
the face of the earth, seeking whom they may
deceive, and they will deceive many, and it be-
hooves every person to know whether he is on
the Lord's side, and "hold fast to the iron rod,
which is the Word of God," that he may find
safety and deliverance in every time of need.

[Column 3]

	The Latter-day Saints should never swerve
one jot or tittle from the path of duty, but strive
earnestly to keep the faith. This claim is im-
perative. God has instituted a reform in the
earth, a plan of salvation which is higher, broad-
er, grander, deeper and reaches farther into the
future than any institution which man could
suggest. And even though the "times are out of
joint," there is One who can be safely relied upon
to set all things right. The great Physician,
the Healer will in his own due time, and in the
season thereof, restore all things to their proper
places, and his kingdom will be established
never to be thrown down, and righteousness will
be his sceptre.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	The Eighth Ward Relief Society met according
to appointment, for reorganization, May 7th,
1882, at the meeting house. Present, Bishop
Sheets, Counselors McMurrin, and Brockbank,
and Sister M. I. Horne. Opened by singing and
prayer minutes read and accepted. Resolu-
tions of respect of our late President and Coun-
selor, were read and adopted. The Bishop then
made some remarks, and nominated the officers.
Sister Esther B. Fletcher, President; Catherine
Palmer, First Counselor; Jane Cowen Second
Counselor; Sarah Hawkins, Secretary; Jenette-
McMurrin Assistant Secretary; Ruth Ensign
Treasurer; Annie Cross, Prosiding Teacher.
Sister Horne gave us good instructions. Meet-
ing adiourned. The Bishop invited the sisters
to his home to dinner, we had a very enjoyable
 time with his family.	E. B. FLETCHER.


THOUGHTS AWAKENED BY CAMEO.
	Cameos have ever been great favorites of
mine! and I wore one of the immortal Shaks-
pere for many years daily, till it became as it
were an Amulet, but one unfortunate day I lost
my Cameo!
	I have seen some beautiful devices in Cameo.
One especially, I so well remember, it bore with
exquisite distinctness the thirteen personages,
composing “the last supper.” The centre figure
was of course, the Savior,—“the beloved Apos-
tle” on his right hand, and the remaning eleven
around the table. If I ever craved a jewel, it 
was the most exquisite one; but its price was
fifty guineas, and I had to return it into the
kind hands that had brought it for my inspec-
tion, knowing it would be the gem of my heart;
every feature was distinct, and even the ex-
pression of each face, vividly portrayed. But
the “Cameo,” that has struck many chords in
my heart, at the present moments in the Nom
de plume of the writer of the brief, but most in-
teresting article in the last issue of the EXPON-
ENT, headed “Spencer's Letters” The very
name brings before my mind such a crowd of
complicated reminiscences, that I find it difficult
to make any tangible. Were I to live to the age
of Methusalah, I could never forget the complex
feelings that thrilled through my whole system
as I took that little volume into my hands. I
had had the Latter-day work verbally laid before
me, and I had felt the truth of some of its prin-
ciples, for I could read them in the New Testa-
ment, but I had seen no book, or printed matter
of any sort regarding it. I was requested to 
read "Spencer's Letters," as a book that would
please, and more convince me; but I hesitated,
I feared it would "lead me to convictions I would
shun,” therefore I rather declined, but still was
not sa[-]isfied; at last I consented that it should
be purchased and sent to me. It came! I took it
into my hands, not attempting to open it, hold-
ing it with a species of awe, having an indistinct


idea, that, that book in some unaccountable
way, contained my destiny! I held it as by a spell,
wondering what I should do with it. At last
my mind arrived at a focus, I quietly went to
my own room, shut, and locked the door, went to
the spot where I was accustomed to offer up my
daily and nightly orisons, laid the book upon
the bed knelt down before it, and asked my
Father in Heaven, if that book contained Truth
that I might embrace—if error, that I might
reject it wholly and entirely. Of course my pray-
er contained more than this—but my memory
retains only these two sections.
	I arose, and again took the book into my
hands, and sat down by my bedside, my whole
system in a thrill of sacred awe. If I did not
fully realize that it was the most sacred, the
most important moment of my life, and that I
feel sure that angels were around, and sustaining
me, I could smile at the slow, and mysterious
way in which I so gently opened that little
book, and peered into its first words. At last I
had it wide open. I ventured to read its first
letter; I breathed freely once again. I felt as-
sured that the writer was a servant of the living
God! that he was a noble man—a gentleman—
one whose teachings bore the impress of him,
under whom he served, and worshiped, and
wrote, and thought. Every letter I read, I was
the more convinced, the more satisfied. All he
said was so conclusive; I thought all was told:
and when through I turned to the fly leaf, and
enthusiastically wrote upon it, "My Own, My
Own!" Those words stand there to-day; and to
day I endorse them.
	The annotations and reflections of Cameo, on
these letters are truthful, just, and appreciative;
and I joyfully endorse every one of them; for
they contain the language of my own heart.
And from the moment I read those letters I
became a Latter-day Saint. "Yesterday, to-day
and forever."		HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City, May 9th 1882.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

AT REST.

	DIED on Sunday morning April 23, 1882 at
his home in the Museum building in this city,
Joseph L. Barfoot, aged 66 years. Brother Bar-
foot was born March 29, 1816, in the Fortress of
Warwick Castle, Warwick, England. He was
baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints, in February 1856, and was an
active missionary during the remainder of his
residence in London; where he had labored pre-
viously in what was known as the "London City
Mission," according to the best light and
knowledge he had before receiving the new and
everlasting Gospel. He came to Utah in 1865,
and has ever since resided in this City. For
some years past he has occupied the position of
curator at the Museum, which he was most ad-
mirably qualified to fill. His genial and unas-
suming manner combined with his extensive
knowledge of natural curiosities, and minerals of
all kinds, as also of antiquities, rendered him cap-
able of imparting information in such a way as
to please and edify all who called upon him.
He was a man of uncommon talents and ac-
quirements. He had dived deep into the re-
cesses of science and stored his mind well with
the treasures he had found in his careful search
through the winding ways so few ever attempt
to travel. His happy adaptation of subjects gave
him the faculty of harmonizing science with re-
ligion—which is not usual with men of great
scientific attainments.
	He was undoubtedly the most learned man in
Utah, and indeed there are but few in the world
who possess such a vast mine of precious treas-
ures, and are capable of utilizing them for the
public good. Brother Barfoot was also gener-

[Column 2]

ously endowed with love for his fellow men, was
a philanthropist in the true sense of the word:
It was the great desire of his life to do good to
mankind.
	Prof. Barfoot was royally descended, on his
father's side from Robert Bruce, King of Scot-
land, and was heir to the Earldom of Crawford.
But worldly titles were nothing to him, his am-
bition was to secure an imperishable crown,
which he sought diligently and faithfully to ob-
tain. His mother was Sophia Louisa Ridley
directly descended from Bishop Ridley, who suf-
fered martyrdom at Smithfield, England; and
from his mother he inherited his strong religious
tendencies and unswerving faith in God. This
great good and learned man was as humble as a
child, gentle, modest and yet noble, high-
minded, liberal and charitable to all. One may
safely say he was indeed a Christian whose life
and example are well worthy imitation.
	The funeral of Prof. Barfoot, was held in the
21st, Ward meeting house, where some of those
who loved and respected this good man, as-
sembled to pay the last tribute of respect, to
him who has gone to rest from his earthly
labors. Wreaths and bouquets of flowers were
laid upon his coffin, by loving hands; and all
present felt to endorse the many beautiful testi-
monies given of this worthy brother. Appropri-
ate hymns were well rendered by the ward choir,
prayer was offered by Br. Tuddenham, and brief
addresses were delivered by Elders George Rey-
nolds, Junius F. Wells, John Tuddenham, H.
W. Naisbett, John Nicholson, H. Foulger,
Bishop Thomas Taylor, and Elder George By-
water. Benediction by Elder Joseph E. Taylor.
	Much might be said and written of this wise
and venerable man, that would be a blessing
to the young people in this day, as well as
interesting to all. Bro. Barfoot has been for
years a regular contributor, to the Juvenile In-
structor, has writen considerably for the Des-
eret News and other papers and Magazines and
occasionally for the WOMAN'S EXPONENT in
which he was much interested as he entertained
the most liberal views upon all questions re-
lating to the elevation and advancement of
woman.
	May Our Heavenly Father bless his family and
sanctify this bereavement to their good; and in
the morning of the first resurrection may they
be united again that his happiness may be com-
plete, is the wish of one who cherished for him
not only a great admiration of his high attain-
ments, but a sincere affection and many pleasant
recollections of his intelligent conversation.
	E. B, W.


IN MEMORY OF.

	Died in Provo City, on Monday Evening April
17, 1882, of Diphtheria, Roy Daniels, son of
Aaron and Caroline Daniels, aged 9 years.

	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	On the Death of Roy Daniels, Eliza Gledhill,
Mariah Tanner and Lilly Phillips, who died of
that dreadful disease, diphtheria. Adopted at a 
meeting of the Primary Association of the 4th,
Ward, Provo City April, 22nd 1882.
	Whereas God in his allwise Providence has
seen fit in the last year to call from our midst,
our much loved little friends and playmates.
	Whereas their labors in our Association have
been faithfully performed. We feel that some
proper recognition of their virtues be had among
us; and,
	Therefore, be it resolved that we as members
of the Primary Association deeply mourn the
loss of our little friends, and
	Resolved that we emulate and follow their


examples of purity and faithfulness in the per-
formance of all duty; and
	Resolved that we condole with each other in
our bereavement, and tender a token of respect
and love to their relatives and friends in their
affliction; and,
	Resolved that we present a copy of these res-
olutions to their relatives and publish the same
in the Provo Enquirer, also the WOMAN’S EX-
PONENT, and place a copy on our record.
	Friends will mourn, but this bereveament
		They’ll endure;
	Knowing that their precious darlings
		Are secure. 
	Like rosebuds yet unopened.
		They shall bloom,
	Where no blight shall mar their freshness,
		And perfume.
	For the angels bore them, robed in spotless white,
		To their peaceful home of light.
			JENNIE SNYDER.
			MARTHA GLEDHILL.
			ANNIE SMART.
			WALLACE HALIDAY.
			MAGGIE WATSON,
				Committee.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Resolutions of respect to the late Sisters Mary
Ann Leaver, who departed this life April 4th,
1882, and Sarah Ann Needham, who died Feb.
22d, 1882. Adopted by the Eighth Ward Relief
Society May 4th, 1882.
	Whereas, in the dispensation of divine Provi-
dence, our late President, Mary A. Leaver and
Counselor Sarah A. Needham have been called
to a higher sphere of action, and,
	Whereas, our departed Sisters were worthy of
our highest regard, esteem, and affection, in
which they were held by the Society, their co-
laborers and intimate friends; and,
	Whereas, it is our duty and privilege to express
our apreciation of their many virtues and good
qualities, and efficient services.
	Therefore, be it resolved, that these Resolu-
tions be recorded in the minutes of the Eighth
Ward Relief Society, and a copy presented to
the families of our esteemed sisters, also pub-
lished in the EXPONENT.
	ESTHER B. FLETCHER.


ELIZABETH BIRCH.

	In behalf of the Primary Asociation, No. 4
Mill Creek Ward, the following was read at the
first meeting, after the death of President E.
Birch.
	We meet but what a change. Since our last
meeting, our dearly beloved President, has been
taken from our midst. How we miss her sweet
smiling face. She was ever kind and patient
with our failings. How it rejoiced her to hear
our testimonies or whatever exercises we at
tempted. The attempt was all that she required
of any one, although she was delighted with 
success.
	Let us ever bear in mind her wise counsel; if
we will, we shall meet her again in that blest
land, where the weary are at rest. She never
seemed so happy as while laboring for the wel-
fare of her Primary friends.
	Sister Elizabeth Birch, was the daughter of
Richard and Betty Hardman. Was at the time
of her death aged 71 years, 11 months and 16
days. She had been a member of the Church,
for over forty years. She left two sons and a 
large number of grand-children and great-grand-
children.
	May her rest be sweet and her reward glorious.
		ALICE A. WINDER, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]

A TYPICAL FEUDAL CITY.

	If the reader will turn to the map of Europe 
and place her finger near the centre of tne ‘
southern half of the German Empire, it will
indicate almost the exact position of the city of
Nuremberg (or Nurnberg), and that name
will probably sound familiar, for one or more
reasons, to most of those who peruse this article.
Those who are mothers, and hence deal more
or less in playthings, will recall the fact that
the fame of Nuremberg toys has reached even
the valleys of Utah. Some will remember the
city as the birthplace, on the 21st of May,
1471, of Albrecht Durer, painter and engraver,
the versatility of whose gifts made him more
nearly resemble the immortal Angelo than any
other artist of history. A very celebrated
sculptor, Adam Krafft, was also born here, and
during a long life left, in many parts of the
town, evidences of his great excellence with
the chisel; and some noted die-sinkers and
metal-workers, as well as two or three poets, a
historian or two, and other men whose names,
if mentioned, would be familiar to the biograph-
ical student, first saw light in this city.
	To those who belong to the large class of
human beings who earn their living by the use
of the pencil, it will be no news to say that situ-
ated here are the factories of the Messrs. Faber,
whose pencils are known and used all over the
civilized world. I will not presume to think
any of my readers know any thing about the
quality or reputation of Nuremberg beer; but
evreywhere in Europe and in nearly all parts
of the United States, it is a favorite for its
fine and peculiar flavor, its rich color and its
purity. But the city is quite a famous one in
Europe, for various other reasons, and in quaint
old Germany itself has the reputation of being 
one of the best preserved of the ancient forti-
fied towns of the empire.
	Like everything else which makes an en-
during mark upon the page of history, Nurem-
berg is greatly indebted for its existence to a
woman—in fact a woman, if not the actual
founder of the city, was at least the one who
gave it the stability and prestige which it has
never lost to this day. Something over eight
hundred years ago there lived in central Europe
an Empress, named Kunigunde, whos career,
if all be true that is told about her, was a very
interesting one. I am not aware that she has
had any accurate biographer, who has taken
the pains to search after proofs of her wonder-
ful deeds, and who has refrained from giving
credence to such stories as were at best but
the wild superstitions of the peasantry. On
the contrary, every writer who has mentioned
her at all, seems to have adopted what previous
historians have said, and added a little himself
to make his book more entertaining. We all
know, from every day experience, how rapidly
a tale grows and improves with each successive
repetition, and we can each therefore form an
idea of how small a foundation, eight hundred
years ago, may have existed for the marvelous
accounts which we read of to-day. For ex-
ample, it is quite a common tradition nowa-
days respecting this Kunigunde that she came
from heaven to earth in a flame of fire, as a
perfect woman, in the height of beauty, and
possessing all the elements of immortality. An
earlier story is that as she lay in her little
cradle, flames of fire were seen to dart from and
envelope it, much to the alarm of her parents,
whom she, however, reassured by telling them,
though she was only three months old, that
she would not be injured. And a still earlier
tradition, and probably one somewhere near
correct, recites that as the infant princess was
for the first time presented to her delighted
father, the great chimney place took fire and
fell wih a loud crash—a good omen, so the old
nurses said, indicating that the child should
become great and mighty, tearing down old

[Column 2]

empires and causing new ones to grow up in
their stead.
	It would be very wearisome to relate all the
events of her childhood as told by such histor-
ians as believe she had a childhood, or to men-
tion the various traditions still held as to the
signs of heavenly displeasure at the time of
her marriage. Suffice it to say, whether she
were a heavenly or an earthly being, she had
a true woman's heart, and yielded to the wooing
of a handsome young prince, whom she mar-
ried amid great rejoicings of the people and
with bright prospects of lifelong happiness.
She, however, was ambitious and restless, while
her husband was indolent and satisfied to pass
away his life in ease and the pursuit of pleasure.
She therefore assumed the lead of affairs, es-
tablished herself at the city of Nuremberg
(now heard of for the first time in history), de-
fended it with strong fortifications, made con-
tinual inroads upon the territory of her weaker
neighbors, and was able to resist the attacks of
her stronger ones. She ruled with severity,
giving simple justice always, but mercy, never.
The Burg, or castle, now mostly rebuilt, situ-
ated on an elevated sandstone rock, is where
she lived, and in the courtyard still grows the
old lime tree, planted by her, under which she
sat sternly administering her own laws. Many
of the walls and defences, said to have been
erected by her orders, and according to her
own designs, also remain and attest the true
Amazonian character and attributes credited
to her. And all this was done in a very short
time, for in the prime of life, some say in less
than ten years after her marriage, she came to
her death under the following painful circum-
stances.
	From her last incursion into a neighboring
province, she brought, as prisoner, to her strong-
hold a brave robber knight, whose manly,
proud bearing, during his imprisonment, quite
won her heart, and she made overtures to him
promising him liberty, great wealth, and half
her kingdom if he would join her in a con-
spiracy to get her husband out of the way.
About this time it appears that her ease-loving
lord became a little suspicious, and set spies to
watch the maneuvres of his cunning better
half. At last, just as she had locked the jailor
in his own room, and was opening the gates to
the knight, who was already on his horse,
the betrayed husband with his guards rushed in
and gave a very unexpected conclusion to the
programme. The empress threw the keys of
the fortress down a deep well, while the knight,
knowing that certain death awaited him, re-
solved to meet it in an attempt to escape. He
spurred his horse on to the parapet wall, at a
single bound, cleared the moat which encircled
the castle, and was free. Cheated of one of
his conspirators, the emperor, now thoroughly
aroused, resolved to punish the other at once,
and very affectionatly threw his wife headlong
down the well, ordering her to bring the keys
to him before she need expect his forgiveness.
It is said that she did come once, with the keys.
hanging at her girdle, but her ghostly appear-
ance was so terrible that the poor conscience-
stricken man died of fright. In confirmation
of these details, the old castallan leads the
unbeliever to the well itself (fee six cents), and 
lower candles into it to show its great depth,
while with solemn whispers, he declares that
by means of a mirror properly arranged, on a
dark night, the spirit of the restless woman
may be seen, groping about for the castle keys,
without which she cannot accompany her hus-
band to paradise. As the moat at this point is
about one hundred and thirty feet wide and
one hundred deep, with perpendicular walled
sides, T was disposed to doubt the equestrian 
feat of the robber; but the guide triumphantly
led me to a certain part of the castle wall where
two deep indentations made by the hoofs of
the steed in his grand leap still remain, mute

[Column 3]

witnesses of the truthfulness of the warder's
tale. I was also amused at his reply to my
assertion that I did not believe his account
about the tree under which Kunigunde admin-
istered justice, because I did not believe that
justice ever was administered in Nuremberg at
all. "You may depend the story is true," said
he; "you will notice, Herr American, that it is
so long since any was administered, the grass
has grown up out of and over the stones of the
pavement and made a smooth, mossy lawn of
it." He was so prompt with his reply that I
concluded some other American had made the
same objection as myself, having learned from
bitter experience that the goddess with the
scales was here, not only blindfolded but bound
hand and foot—perfectly powerless.
	Such is a brief sketch of the earliest history
of a city which has withstood the feudal and
more modern wars of Europe, and remains to-
day almost as ancient looking and as well pre-
served as it ever was. Of its authentic history
much that is interesting might be mentioned,
showing its great prosperity in the sixteenth
century, before the discovery of the sea route
to the Indies, its subsequent decline, and its
restoration again to the position which it now
occupies, as the chief city of manufacture and
trade in South Germany. But it will perhaps
be sufficient to add, by way of conclusion, that
it became one of the free towns of the empire
in the twelfth century, and received many im-
portant concessions from successive emperors,
to whom it furnished a residence. For the
next few hundred years it was one of the lead-
ing cities of Europe in the protection offered to
art, and in the activity and energy of its busi-
ness men. But during the Thirty Years' War
is suffered greatly, and during several decades
following it, the feeble rule of the patrician
families caused it to sink almost into insignifi-
cance, until, in 1806, when it became a Bav-
arian city, life again returned to it, and it be-
came and has since remained a flourishing com-
mercial centre. Since the Reformation it has 
always been a stronghold of Protestanism,
Melancthon having early introduced his prin-
ciples, and having received a warm welcome.
Certain relics in the museum, however, indicate
that the tortures of the Inqnisition were not
unknown here in early times, for there may be
seen the rack, the thumb screw, a sort of heavy
pillory, and a hollow cast iron figure filled
with spikes, called the Iron Virgin, into which
the heretic was thrust and fastened. A picture
of the guillotine on the ceiling of one of the
old buildings is significant also, showing that
that horrible instrument is not, as has been
generally supposed, of modern invention.
	The people are quiet and old-fashioned, but
industrious. The streets are narrow and
crooked but clean. The houses are irregular
and not handsome, though very picturesque,
and every few steps may be seen niches in the
walls where a little statue of the Virgin or
some favorite saint has been placed by the
pious inhabitant. In some of the old private
residences, in which it is said are fifty rooms
and even more, the red tiled roof, which seems
to start from the ground, and the eaves of
which are so low that a tall person actually
has to stoop to get into the door, runs up to
such a high peak and is filled all the way up
with such a bewildering number of the funny
little pointed windows, that one cannot question
the truth of the statement. The appearance
of these houses, whole streets of them, is very
odd, especially when ornamented, as most of
them are, with medallions in relief and images
of the most grotesque looking animals with the
most whimsical inscriptions. The main at-
tractions, however, are still the fortifications,
which are in almost perfect preservation. The
old town is surrounded by a heavy rampart,
strengthened here and there by towers of var-
ious shapes, and was in warlike times entered


by four gates, the massive towers defending
which still remain. Outside the wall is a dry
moat, thirty-five yards wide and thirty-five
feet deep, walled up securely and made doubly
strong wherever there was opportunity. The
material used is a species of coarse sandstone,
yielding readily to the action of the pick axe
but resisting admirably the effects of the
weather. Every conceivable advantage, in
matter of angles and projections was taken,
and it would seem that, before the days of im-
proved artillery, the place was really impreg-
nable. The most frequented and finest parts
of the works are where the small river, the
Pegnitz, enters and leaves the town, through
low, fantastic arches, and also in the neighbor-
hood of the castle. Since 1807, when many
other gateways were made into the city, the
moat, at such places, has been filled up.
Where it still remains in its original form it
now, however, serves a more peaceful purpose
though still keeping away a great enemy—
starvation—from the doors of many of the in-
habitants, who make use of its low, warm
sheltered location, for raising early vegeatables
and excellent fruit. One or two beer gardens
flourish in the shadow of its walls, and right at
the base of the old castle itself some enter-
prising Teuton has started a poultry house.
The cackling of the fowls is not very conducive
to the state of reverie and meditation which so
ancient a place might he expected to produce.
No one visits the city without taking a stroll
clear around the original battlements, and a
more interesting hour can scarcely be imagined.
A few mornings since I had just concluded the
round as the sun peeped over the dark pine
forrest on the east, and ten minutes afterwards
took train for another part of the empire I
bidding Nuremberg, as I now do the Expon-
ent, for a time “Goodbye.”
		SCHWIEGERSOHN.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 191


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

MINK CREEK, IDAHO.

	On January 14th, 1882, a special meeting
was called, and Bishop Rasmus Rasmusen, by
unanimous vote of the people, reorganized the
Relief Society, with the following officers, viz:
Ingrid Graham, President; Ane Rasmusen,
First Counselor; Adolphine Larsen, Second
Counselor; Sophia Rasmusen, Secretary; and
Clara Rasmusen, Treasurer; thirty members
enrolled. Six teachers are laboring among the
sisters. We hold our meetings twice a month,
on Wedenesday at 2 o'clock. Total number of
officers and members, thirty-six.
	Officers of the Y. L. M. I. A.: Christine
Keller, President; Minnie Eskelser, First
Counselor; Emilie Bjorn, Second Counselor;
Catharine Keller, Secretary; Marie Peterson,
Treasurer; twenty-two members enrolled; total
number of officers and members, twenty-seven.
They keep their own minutes and roll book,
but are holding their meetings conjoint with the
Y. M. M. I. A. every Saturday at 2 o' clock.
	Primary Association—Emma Rasmusen,
President; Christine Nelsen, First Counselor;
Catharine Larsen, Second Counselor; Ane Lar-
sen, Secretary; Karen Sorensen, Treasurer;
thirty-five members enrolled. They hold their
meetings every Saturday at 11 o'clock; meet-
ings generally well attended. Total number of
officers and members, forty.
	The Relief Society is trying to get a farm
to plant and attend the coming season, to
commence storing some wheat for future use,
and to help to build temples. Our settlement
is very much scattered, and it makes it some-
what inconvenient for the sisters to meet,
yet our meetings, considering, are very well
attended. The Bishop and a few of the other
brethren occasionally visit our meetings and

[Column 2]
counsel and encourage us. Always praying
for the welfare of God's kingdom and the
interest of woman's cause and the EXPONENT
as its advocate, I have the pleasure to be
			Yours, in the Gospel,
						INGRID GRAHAM.

SEVIER STAKE.

	The tenth Quarterly Conference of Sevier
Stake of Zion was held at Richfield, March
17th, 1882. President Elizabeth Bean pre-
siding. After the usual opening exercises, Sis-
ter Bean expressed herself as being happy in
meeting her brethren and sisters in conference
capacity, and thankful for the good spirit we
had with us. Desired each one to try, by the
spirit of the Lord, to magnify their calling,
and perform the duties devolving upon them.
	President A. K. Thurber, who had just re-
turned from the Legislature, addressed the con-
ference. Related interesting incidents of the
Legislature. Briefly referred to the passage of
the Edmunds bill, and its unjust and unneces-
sary laws. Exhorted the sisters to live humble
and faithful, and seek for the spirit of God to
guide them. Invoked the blessings of heaven
upon them.
	President Bean felt to endorse the remarks
of Brother Thurber. She was reminded of
Brother Kimball's comparison of this work to
a stalk of mustard. She loved the land of her
birth. Persecution had commenced at the
house of the Lord, and we should cleanse the
inside of the platter. Order should be in every
family; for this kingdom is one of order. Said
the Gentile women could not understand the
principle of Celestial Marriage; and they never
would.
	Bishop Wright followed with a few remarks.
Singing. Benediction by Brother G. W. Bean.
	2 P. M. After singing and prayer, the pres-
idents, of the different societies, gave verbal re-
ports of their societies, showing that those who
were interested were diligent and faithful in the
performance of their duty.
	Sister Celia E. Bean read the statistical and
financial reports of each society, and a com-
piled stake report.
	The conference was addressed by Brothers
Pierce, Oldroyd and Entz, Sisters Heywood
and Bean. All gave good counsel, and invoked
the blessings of Heaven upon all branches of
the Relief Society. Conference adjourned un-
til June 16th, 1882. Singing. Benediction.
					CELIA E. BEAN,
						Secretary pro tem.

ST. GEORGE.

	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Societies of the St. George Stake of Zion, held
at St. George, Friday March 17th, 1882. Coun-
selor Anna L. Ivins presiding.
	After the usual opening exercises, the min-
utes of our last Conference were read and ac-
cepted. The different wards were represented
by their respective presidents. The financial
condition of the societies throughout the Stake
were reported in a better condition than usual.
President McAllister gave some very good
general instructions. The meeting was also
addressed by Sisters Anna L. Ivins and Lucy
B. Young; and a good spirit prevailed through-
out the whole Conference.
			ELIZABETH P. BENTLY,
				Corresponding Secretary.

NORTH OCDEN.

	Minutes of a Primary Conference held at
North Ogden, February 25th, 1882. Sister M.
A. Wallace presiding. Singing, "We are the
children of the Saints;" prayer by Bishop Amos
Maycock; singing, "Gather up the Sunbeams;"
roll called, one hundred members present; min-
utes of the last meeting read and accepted;
programme read. Exercises: Recitation, Fran-

[Column 3]
ces Wharton, entitled "Joseph the Prophet;"
recitation, Andrew Clark, entitled "Obedience;"
song, Lydia and Emily Bailey and Bessie
Stevens, entitled "Daughter, don't let Mother
do it;" recitation, John Williams, entitled
"Poverty;" dialouge, Samuel Storey and Joseph
Cazier, entitled "A discussion between a Gen-
tile gentleman and a Mormon boy;" recitation,
Margaret Holmes, entitled "Address to a flower;"
song, William S. Wallace and Charles Ellis, en-
titled "Say, why do birdies warble?" recitation,
Ruth M. Evans, entitled "Lines inscribed to
Bishop Hunter;" recitation, Rose Brown, en-
titled "In memory of Joseph Standing;" song,
Edwin T. Alvord, entitled "Dare to do right;"
the first chapter of the "Bible Questions and
Answers" were repeated in concert by the
Association; song, by Harriet Barker and
Annie Storey, entitled "Lost and Saved;" reci-
tation, by Florence Wade, "Make the best of
life;" dialogue, "The history of Joseph the Pro-
phet," William and Thomas Richards; song,
"Mother is dying," Lilie Ellis and Mamie Cra-
gun; recitation, "Memento Mori," Lillie Rose;
recitations, Joseph and M. A. Wallace Jr.,"
"All things bright and beautiful," and "I'm
very young and little;" song, "Gladly meeting,"
by Naomi Jones; recitation, E. A. Chadwick,
"The Martyred Prophets;" recitation, William
S. Wallace, "The scripture alphabet;" song,
Nellie Richards, "I'll be a little Mormon;"
recitation; "Nobody like Mother," George
White; song; Lizzie Wallace, "I cannot sing the
old songs." President Wallace then gave the
meeting into the hands of the sisters from
Ogden. Sisters E. Y. Stanford and Rose
Canfield, counselors of the Primary Association
of Weber Stake, Sister H. Nye, Ogden, Bishop
Maycock and Counselors, of North Ogden.
Sisters Stanford, Canfield and Nye gave some
very excellent instructions to the children; they
were pleased with the exercises and said it
was the best conference of the Primary Associ-
ation they had ever attended. The president
and first counselor from the Hot Springs, gave
some very good advice; Bishop Maycock and
Sister M. A. Walker addressed the children.
Members enrolled, one hundred and sixty-nine.
Conference adjourned for three months. Sing-
ing "Love at home." Benediction by Brother
N. Montgomery; Mary A. Wallace, President;
Margaret Storey and Sarah J. Ellis, Counsel-
ors; Elizabeth C. Wallace, Secretary; Mary
Storey, Assistant Secretary.

TWENTIETH WARD PRIMARY.

	The Anniversary of the Primary Association
of the 20th Ward was held in the schoolhouse
on Wednesday, April 19th, 1882. Mrs.
Emma Toone presiding. Exercises as usual.
Roll called; one hundred and twenty six-mem-
bers present. The programme for the after-
noon was as follows:
	Essay, written by Miss Isabella Salmon; sub-
ject, "The Primary Association." Song, "Mossy
Old Mill," by Kate Sharp, Lucy Savage and
Emily Sharp. Dialogue, by Selina Pusey and
Millie Reynolds, on "The First Principles of the
Gospel." Recitation, "Our Darling Baby," by
Kate Romney. Song, "I'm going to write
to Papa," with accompaniment on the small
piano, by Josie Daynes. Essay, on "Truth," by
George Ross. Bible questions, answered by the
Association. Recitation, "Boys of Spirit," by
Willie Culmer. Song, by Flora Phillips, en-
titled "Happy Moments." Lines on the resto-
ration of the Gospel, recited by Georgina Toone.
Essay, on "Obedience," by Lucy Savage. Song,
"May-day," by the juvenile choir. Dialogue,
on "Attending Sabbath School," by Frank
Pusey and Willie Phillips. Recitation, "Order-
ly Habits," by Mary Ann Jackson. Recitation
in Concert, "Young Missionaries," by four boys
and five girls. Song, by Emma Forrest, "I
wish Mamma was here." Reading, from the


Book of Mormon, by Willie Knight. Song, by
Mary Romney, "Cling to me ever." Recitation,
by Maud and Lilly Potter, a humorous
piece. Recitation, by Isabella Romney, "Morn-
ing Prayer." Song, by Ida Savage, Ida San-
some and Lenny Savage, "The unfinished
prayer." Recitation, by Rhoda Jackson, "Sleep,
Dolly, sleep." Recitation, by Alice Reynolds,
Scriptural, from the Juvenile Instructor. Song
by the Association, "Love at Home."
	Addresses were then delivered by Sisters E.
R. Snow Smith, Ellen C. Clawson, Louie Felt,
Rachel R. Grant and Counselor Pusey,
Bros. Lewis, Romney, Salmon, Richards and
Simmons; all of which were very brief but
interesting and instructive.
	The children were then treated to a sumptu-
ous feast of cake, oranges and candy. The 
pleasant affair winding up with a dance for the
young folks. Altogether the children spent an
enjoyable time.
	CECILIA SHARP,
	Corresponding Secretary.

YEARLY REPORT
	Of the 20th Ward Primary Association,
from April 19th, 1881, to April 19th, 1882.
We have held forty-two meetings during the
year. There are one hundred and forty-five
members enrolled; our average attendance is
from eighty-five to ninety. Our readings are 
from the Book of Mormon, Doctrine and
Covenants, the Bible, and miscellaneous read-
ings; total number for the year, one hundred
and two; recitations, one hundred and fourteen;
songs, thirty-eight; essays, six; dialogues, six-
teen; and the number of testimonies borne by
the children, one hundred and fifteen; organ
solos, two. The children take great interest in
learning and are not often unprepared. We
meet every Thursday at 3 o' clock, and the
members are very punctual. We always receive
good instructions from our President and her
Counselors, and the children generally pay very
good attention and are improving wonderfully.
We are taught to be orderly, obedient to our
parents, to be truthful and to pray often. We
have a great desire to go on improving.
	Financial Report: We have a five cent
fund organized for the benefit of the Associa-
tion. Money recieved from the fund, $6.90.
Disbursed $3.25., Cash on hand, $3.65.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

THE COFFIN FAMILY.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Dear Friend:—Will you allow me to express
a few of my feelings through the columns of
the EXPONENT, regarding my relatives and
progenitors, bearing the name of Coffin, and by
that means I may more readily communicate
with them? They have been most assiduously
searching our genealogies, and in getting up
the Tristram Coffin reunion, which has been a
great undertaking; and I want to express my
gratitude and the great interest I take in their
proceedings publicly, and show my reverence to
my noble ancestors. I am anxiously looking
for the book that the union is about to publish
respecting this extensive family, both lineal and
collateral, and I know many here in the
mountains of Utah who will rejoice with me
in reading it, and will make use of the gene-
alogies it will contain; and I take this mode of
publicly expressing my feelings upon this sub-
ject, by sending an EXPONENT to each of the
heads of my relations. I received a paper they
sent me, containing a most interesting account
of our English branch of the family; which I
felt, as I read, was indeed an honor to us; and
I felt my spirit inspired, as I read, by the
spirit of these my English ancestors of eight
hundred years. I will here give an extract

[Column 2]

from a letter of Mrs. Mary Coffin Johnson,
of Brooklyn, who visited our relatives in
Portledge, England. She says: "Portledge is
one of the very few estates in England which
has remained for so great a length of time in a
family retaining the original name, about eight
hundred years! On entering the gateway, the
drive through the park is nearly half a mile in
length, on a winding road overshadowed by
noble oaks. At almost every turn some new
charm and fresh beauty is disclosed, until the
lordly mansion is seen.
	"The butler received us at the hall door. Our
cards were taken to J. R. Pine Coffin, the
hospitable owner and lord of the manor, who
soon appeared, and cordially welcomed us. I
had previously exchanged letters with him, con-
cerning my proposed visit. Much to my re-
gret, I had not the pleasure of meeting the
lady of Portledge; she having been suddenly
called to the death-bed of her mother. She
is highly spoken of, as a most estimable lady,
and is the sister of the late Captain Speake,
the Nile voyager. Our English cousin, J.
B. Pine Coffin is a specimen of an English
gentleman—and a Coffin! He is fine and
noble in physique, and leads one, cordially,
to admire him, being frank, genial and most
hospitable.
	"One remark, just before we started for our
walk over the estate, was of personal interest
to me, betraying, as it did, the independence of
thought and action which every Coffin pos-
sessed when convinced of a good measure.
Said he, "You shall take some refreshment be-
fore we go, will you have tea, coffee or cocoa?
I am a teetotaller, I do not offer wine to my
guests." This gentleman has ten children,
forming a lovely group from Miriam, down to
baby 'Dorothy,' who was in nurse's arms—
excellent types of real full-blooded Coffins," etc.
	And now I want to remark on the grand
success of the re-union held on Nantucket
Island on the 16th, 17th and 18th of August,
1881, being the last resting place of Tristram
Coffin and his wife, Dionis, and the first of their
name in America. Two monuments are to be
erected to their memory in honor of them; also a
genealogical history is to be printed; and I feel
to sustain the memorial by having each of my
family join it, and contribute their means to it.
One of my sons is on the committee, and has
received a notice from Andrew G. Coffin, of
New York, treasurer, 72 John street, to for-
ward our subscription to the Coffin Testimonial
Fund as enclosed in the circular. The arduous
and protracted labors performed by him, by
which the re-union was made so grand a success,
richly deserves recognition at the hands of
the clan.
	I have received several papers from Prof.
Selden J. Coffin, of Lafayette College, Easton,
Penn., giving account of the celebration each
day; and have obtained valuable records from
our noble English relative, and some valuable
portraits in good preservation. All this has
given me delight and satisfaction. The history
of the Coffin family, going so far back, will give
some history and line of ancestry to many in
this country, and the mountains. My son and
some of the family intended to have been at
the re-union last August, but business prevented,
but are in hopes to be able to go before long,
to visit the beloved spot of our kindred and
ancestors. If this is printed, I will send several
papers to my beloved relatives and friends.
	Respectfully yours,
		ELMIRA PINKHAM TUFTS.
Salt Lake City, Utah.


G. P. Putman and Sons, have in press a vol-
ume by Eben G. Scott, on the "Development
of Constitutional Liberty in the English Colo-
nies of America."—Ex.


AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obein the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office on Main Street, over Hardy Bros., Store.

Special Study has been given to Surgery, Diseases
of Women, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans, 		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

PALACE OF FASHION, No.17 EAST TEMPLE ST
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS. 124 & 126.
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Spring and Summer Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER
☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

