
WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
	The Organ of the Latter-day Saints’ Woman’s Relief Society.
Vol. 41.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER, 1912		No. 1.


CONTENTS.
New York’s First Newspapers................	1
The General Federation of Women’s Clubs	2
The Training School for Nurses.............	3
Some Old Love Letters...........................	6
In Memoriam..........................................	8
Relief Society Reports:
	Parowan Stake................................	5
	Uintah Stake...................................	5
	Bear River Stake.............................	5
	Oneida Stake...................................	5
Ediorial: Volume Forty-one....................	4
	Office for Women...........................	4
	Dr. Roberts’ Nurse Class................	4
	Mrs. Sarah Platte Decker................	4
Poetry:
	Ode..................Emmeline B. Wells	1
	A Petition.Augusta Joyce Crocheron	4


[Column 1]
				ODE.
	Written for the Dedication of Maeser
		Memorial, May 30, 1912.
Professors, students, friends, who have assem-
		bled here
	On this memorial day,
	To honor the illustrious dead—
What fitting salutation can we give,
	What tribute pay,
What tender, soulful words can there be said?

No precious gift I bring—not e’en a flower—
	As loving token on this day of days;
But heart o’erflowing with fond memories
Of those departed ones beloved,
Who’ve fought life’s battle valiantly,
	And whose deeds we praise
	In song and story and poetic phrase.

Illumining the pathway of the past,
	Emblazoned on the scroll of earthly fame,
		Are names which ever gleam to hopeful
			youth;
’Mong which those only shall deserve to last
	Whose love of God burned as with constant
		flame;
	Their fruitage—justice, liberty and truth.

Of such the brave, heroic pioneers
	Who led our fathers through the wilderness;
Theirs that unbounded faith that lifts and
	cheers
And opens up the way to happiness.

Today their favored sons and daughters reap
	The golden harvest of their earnest toil,
Bearing aloft the standard of their zeal,
Voicing with gratitude the pride they feel,
	That their forefathers planted in such fertile
		soil.

	In paean triumphant let our voices rise
With gladness and with joy our hearts be
		thrilled,
	That these foundations firm and strong
	Laid by that great and noble throng
		Foreseen by them in vision beautiful
Today behold fulfilled!

As retrospectively we gaze into the years
	When that which now seems old was fresh
		and new
We can but think how marvellous it appears
	And most we wonder how those prophets
		knew.

Could we but catch the echoes of the past
	Reverberating through these flinty mountain
		walls
	As in our fancy vividly they’re ringing—
What shadows o’er us would these memories
	cast,
What scenes of pleasure could the heart
	recall—
Now glad, now minor chords of music
	singing.

[Column 2]
Where are those men who once assembled here,
	The great ones of the past who planned so
		well?
Go read their names writ bright amongst the
		spheres;
	Their deeds to all the coming generations
		tell.

They left us one by one, long, long ago,
	But rich the legacy we still retain;
Nor could they on us greater gift bestow—
	The priceless dower of an honored name.

Along the vista of the years now gone,
Familiar and beloved forms we trace
	As in some twilight dream;
When lo! there’s one pre-eminent, alone,
A teacher pure and simple in his ways,
	A man of humble mien.

Not envious he of human prize or praise,
	Earnest and prayerful life’s long path he
		trod;
In righteous tasks he spent his precious days
	With love for all mankind and faith sublime
		in God.

	And toiled he not in vain;
For in fond recognition of the work he
		wrought
	Today we dedicate this classic fane!

Sweet recompense of service freely given
To him who through the early years had
		striven;
There is solemnity around this [---] place
A fragrant atmosphere of hallowe[-] grace.
As though we saw him face to fac[-]

Imposing columns, graceful arch and lofty
			halls
		Display our honor to the public eye;
	And yet within our hearts we know
	Not all the splendor wealth can show
Could rear a structure of such art
As he with master skill hath wrought
	Within each pupil’s soul;
		A temple towering to the sky,
	Of prayer, of faith, of ceaseless quest
	For truth, which giveth perfect rest;
Seeking along life’s pathway wide
The ever-faltering step to guide
	Toward the eternal goal.

Ye who have gathered oft at wisdom’s shrine,
	In your great consecrated halls of learning,
		Partaking freely from the fount of pure
			intelligence;
Have ye not felt uplifted with a power divine,
	The while your thirsty souls were filled with
			yearning,
		For greater, fairer, higher fields of ex-
			cellence?

Some who are old today and once were young
Through patient years have hoped the day
		would come
When Zion’s youth with flag unfurled
Might fling the challenge to the world
That here in these sequestered vales
The highest, purest thought prevails!
When lo, before our very eyes,
Today our dream we realize.

Oh, stalwart youths, and oh, ye maidens fair,
As ye shall venture forth from these protect-
		ing walls,
	To strive for place among the ranks of men,
	Remember the great truths you have been
		taught,
Heed well the still small voice when’er it calls
	Be merciful, be wise, be true, in every word
		and thought.
	The youth of Zion must keep ever bright
	The Gospel armor and lift high the shining
		light.

And when the century has rounded out its
		cycle

[Column 3]
	In this now blessed western land,
Where once the Indian hunted his wild game
	And where our own brave pilgrim band
Into the bleak and sterile desert came—
Then when you, being known as authors, ora-
		tors and men of world-wide note,
Shall look upon God’s temples beautiful, vast
		halls of fame, and costly works of
		art—
Forget not then the founders, and with true
		ancestral pride,
Remember these achievements are but their
		promise verified.
Now in the joyous springtime of the year,
	When all kind nature’s pulses beat har-
		moniously,
	And earth and air both vibrate with sweet
		melody,
Awake the valley’s echoes far and near—
	Shout Hallelujahs till the overarching sky
	Gives back the rapturous song from depths
			of blue;
		And, echoing on from hill to hill,
	God’s starry canopy pierces thro’
	And all the spheres our hymns renew,
		Until with one exultant thrill
	Worlds without end shall testify
	The wondrous things of prophecy.
				EMMELINE B. WELLS.
May 30, 1912.


NEW YORK’S FIRST NEWSPAPERS.
	The first newspaper published in the city
of New York was not only a very impor-
tant matter at the time, but very significant
of the future of that famous city, founded
by the Dutch at such an early period in
the history of America. The event oc-
curred in 1725, and the paper, which was
only “a little mite,” history says, was called
the Gazette. It was printed on a half-sheet
of foolscap. When one considers what
mammoth editions are brought out daily
at the present time, it seems almost incred-
ible that the beginning should have been so
small—not two hundred years ago. One
queries in one’s own mind, how did the
people live without at least the weekly
news being transmitted in some way or
other. We are told that all the news con-
tained in this little paper was really the
foreign letters and custom house entries,
with scarcely any local news at all. The
editor and proprietor was Wm. Bradford,
the government printer.
	This paper was the sole source of infor-
mation of the sort for nine years; then a
rival appeared, called the Weekly Journal.
This was edited by John Peter Zanger. He
was a German Protestant, and had been
forced to leave his home on the banks of
the Rhine, by the armies of France. He
had come to America with Governor Hun-
ter, and had been apprenticed when a mere
lad to Wm. Bradford. Now, when grown
to manhood, he entered the same profes-
sion as his employer and teacher, but in
direct opposition to him, the paper edited
by him being the organ of the Whig or
People’s party, while the Gazette was the
organ of the governor and council, the Con-
servatives and vested interests. The Jour-
nal did all in its power to bring the “aristo-
crats” into contempt—“aristocrats” being
the name given by the people to the governor


[Column 1]
and his party, and attacked the governor,
the council, the assembly, everybody and
everything connected with the ruling class.
Squibs, lampoons, ballads, witticisms, satire
and whatever would serve its purpose, were
made use of without stint. The people
felt they had an organ in which to air their
grievances and make known their wants,
and they fully appreciated their privilege in
this way. It was indeed the forerunner of
the Heralds, the Tribunes, Suns, Worlds,
and Journals of later years.
	Bradford replied, defending the govern-
or and his party, but his editorials lacked
the pith and vigor of Zanger’s, as all may
see who will go to the public library for
the information and compare the two.
	At length the government rose up and
did what increased the influence of this ed-
itor, by declaring four issues of the Journal
“libelous” and ordering them burned by the
public hangman, at the same time direct-
ing the mayor and alderman, who were of
the popular party, to attend and witness the
ceremony. The spirit of resistance was
strong, and the mayor and magistrates re-
fused to obey the order. They declared it
arbitrary and without authority of law.
Then the governor, who was a weak man,
and his advisers went still further; they
seized Zanger, the editor, and threw him
into prison on a charge of criminal libel.
Now his friends multiplied; where he had
one before he now had ten or more. They
rallied, not so much for him, perhaps, as
for the defense of a free press, and the
rights of the people to criticize their offi-
cials. The excitement spread to the neigh-
boring colonies, where the issue of the trial
was looked forward to with the greatest
interest.
	The leaders of the popular party at that
time were James Alexander and William
Smith. Both at once volunteered to defend
Zanger. Smith had been city recorder and
was noted for his captivating eloquence. Al-
exander had been surveyor general and was
also noted for his legal ability, as well as his
silver tongue. Unfortunately for the case
in hand their zeal led them wrong, and they
made the grave mistake at the outset of
boldly challenging the legality of the com-
missions of Chief Justice De Lancey and
Justice Phillipse, the two judges that com-
posed the court that was to try Zanger, on
the ground that they were not worded in
the usual form and were issued by the gov-
ernor without the consent of the council.
	Judge De Lancey was of Huguenot an-
cestry, of the aristocratic party, stout, florid,
pompous in manner, a great stickler for the
dignity and prerogatives of his office, and
held this plea of the attorneys to be a gross
contempt of court. As soon as he could
command his voice, he said: “You have
brought it to that pass, sirs, that either we
must go from the bench or you from the
bar.” Excluding them from further prac-
tice he assigned John Chambers to defend
Zanger. There was no appeal for disbarred
attorneys in that day, but the opposers were
men of resource and they hastened to Phil-
adelphia and secured, to assist Chambers,
Andrew Hamilton, reputed to be the ablest
and most eloquent advocate then in the col-
onies. At the same time, through the
press and by private conversation in the
clubs and in coffee houses, they made public

[Column 2]
the story of their own wrongs, and the mer-
its and demerits of the case.
	When the trial was called early in July,
1735, Hamilton appeared eager for the fray
and was greeted with shouts of approval
by the people who saw in him the cham-
pion of popular rights. His first reply to
the indictment was that the articles in the
Journal could not be libelous because they
were true. Bradley, the king’s attorney-
general, took exception to this plea and
quoted the old English law that even the
truth, if repeated with intent to injure an-
other, was libelous and punishable as such.
So, for weeks, the legal battle raged with
varying fortunes to the combatants, and
for weeks the entire body of the colonies
waited to see if the press was to be muzzled,
or left to be the Argus-eyed exposer of
official corruption and the defender of the 
people’s rights. At length, after a charge
by the judge unfavorable to the prisoner,
the case was given to the jury, who, after
being out but a few moments, returned with
a verdict of
	“Not guilty.”
	The people received it with shouts of ap-
proval, and were so delighted that they
would have carried Hamilton on their
shoulders but he would not permit it.
	The corporation, however, tendered him
a banquet, at which he was presented with
the freedom of the city in a gold box; and
the same evening a grand ball was given in
his honor. In this first distinctly avowed
contest for their rights the people of New
York won a great victory.
	What rapid strides have been made in
journalism, and what power has emanated
from the press since that eventful time when
newspapers were young and had to struggle
for an existence! Now we may well say the
newspapers “set the pace” for communities
—it is not easy to determine how great
their influence is over the people in all de-
partments of art, science and commercial-
ism on land and sea in peace and in war.
	Long live the Press—the Press forever!


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE GENERAL FEDERATION OF
		WOMEN’S CLUBS.
	The eleventh biennial convention of the
General Federation of Women’s Clubs held
recently in San Francisco was by far the
most important and interesting convention
held thus far. In former years the work
of the club women, while educational and
social, has not shown such power and con-
trol over the vital questions of the hour as
was evidenced at this last biennial. The
most important thing manifested by the
women’s clubs is their interest in civic con-
ditions. “From Browning to garbage-cans,”
from social amusements to street improve-
ments, from sentimental charity work to
real tenement house reforms, is a long leap
for women’s clubs, but it is actually being
taken by the wide awake women of these
organizations.
	For a week prior to the gathering in San
Francisco, the club women of Salt Lake City
united in forming a reception committee to
entertain delegates on the way. Several
hundred visiting delegates passed through
Salt Lake City and remained over a brief
time sight-seeing, but the principal feature
of the entertainment was when the car con-
taining the officials of the General Federa-

[Column 2]
tion arrived. These ladies were received
by the local club women with open arms and
everything possible done for their enter-
tainment. A mass meeting was held in the
Tabernacle, where after a few words of
welcome by Mrs. A. J. Gorham, the presi-
dent of the State Federation for Utah, the
visitors made brief talks along their differ-
ent lines of work, after which an organ re-
cital was given by Professor McClellan, and
musical numbers by Professor Brines, tenor
soloist, and Willard Weihe, violinist. The
ladies were then escorted to a luncheon at
the Commercial Club, where covers were
laid for five hundred guests. The luncheon
was followed by an informal reception at
the Hotel Utah, after which the visitors
were escorted to their train and left for San
Francisco. The Utah delegation number-
ing about fifty left the following day. The
Utah women are very proud of the attention
paid them at the biennial and especially so
of the compliment to our state in the selec-
tion of Mrs. McMahon, a Utah woman, as
general auditor for the federation. The
work of Mrs. McMahon in preparing the
program for the biennial just held was most
arduous but so generally satisfactory that
this recognition, though unexpected, was
well deserved.
	The refusal to take any position on the
suffrage question was something of a dis- 
appointment, especially to the women of the
West and we can not help but regret that
so influential a body of intelligent women
should not have realized that the best
weapon they could have to further their
great work along reform and educational
lines would be the ballot. The most strik-
ing figure at the gathering is said to have
been the Baroness Bertha Von Suttner,
the woman who has done so much for
universal peace in foreign lands; and while
all these beautiful American women paid
her homage and gloried in passing her reso-
lution by acclamation, they refused to in-
dorse the work of a still greater woman,
their own country woman, the late Susan B.
Anthony, whose great work for suffrage
has also included higher education, universal
peace and every reform that would benefit
humanity. The resolutions adopted and
which will undoubtedly be urged upon the
government of the different states and cities
are as follows:
	1—That a vote of thanks be extended to
President Taft for his appointment of Miss
Julia Lathrop to the head of the children’s
bureau.
	2—That the federation unite with the
government in erecting a monument at Pan-
ama in commemoration of the completion
of the Panama canal.
	3—Indorsement of the good roads move-
ment and of a great national highway to be
known as the Lincoln highway.
	4—Conservation of natural resources and
the prevention of the curtailment of forest
reserves.
	5—Preservation of Mammoth Cave, Ken-
tucky.
	6—Bills for the betterment of defective
children.
	7—Favoring the appointment by the na-
tional education association of a committee
to outline a course of study for sex hygiene,
to be taught in all normal schools.
	8—Appointment of clubs to co-operate
with agricultural colleges and economic
organizations for the study of economics.
	9—Favoring a bill to create the establish-


ment of a bureau of national parks under
the department of the interior; also pro-
testing against the curtailment of the appro-
priations to fight fires in the national forests.
	10—Favoring women inspectors for the
mmigrants at all ports of landing. 
	11—Indorsement of the plan to have wo-
men police in all the larger cities of this
country.
	12—Opposing prison contract labor and
pleading for aid to the families of priso-
ners by diverting the profit that may result
from the marketing of goods not in compe-
tition to their benefit.
	13—Indorsement of the study of Bible
literature and the placing of Bible study
upon the program of literary clubs.
	14—Furtherance of high ideals in the
drama and on the professional stage.
	15—Indorsement of the workmen’s com-
pensation act.
	16—Call for federal aid for vocational
training for boys and girls.


17— Indorsement of the plans for medical
inspection in schools, for school nurses and
for out-of-door schools.
	18—Reindorsement of the pure food and
quarantine laws.
	19—Demand that the president of the
United States reorganize the department of
agriculture so that the pure food and drug
acts be better enforced and “the law not be
prostituted for special interests.”
	20—Favoring accurate registration of
births and deaths.
	21—Indorsement of the “white slave”
laws and protesting against the light senten-
ces meted out to convicted offenders.
	22—Indorsement of the plan for study of
political science as a preparation for citizen-
ship in clubs.
	23—Protest against the comic supple-
ments of the Sunday newspapers.
	24—Protest against imposing any legal
disability on woman that is not imposed on
man.
	25—Indorsement of uniform marriage
and divorce laws.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE TRAINING SCHOOL FOR NURSES.
	No finer training school for nurses can
be found anywhere than that offered by the
Dr. W. H. Groves Latter-day Saints’ hos-
pital. Miss Charlotte E. Dancy, superin-
tendent of the nurses at the hospital, is not
only a graduate of the Johns Hopkins hos-
pital school, but served in that hospital for a
number of years; and besides a thorough
knowledge of her profession, thorough
study and experience, she possesses the rare
quality of freely imparting to others.
	The students find her quite accessible and
are drawn to her by her cheerfulness and
personal magnetism, at the same time appre-
ciating the dignity of her position and re-
specting the rigid rules of the curriculum.
	There are many women who take the
nurse training who never expect to become
professional, but merely to better qualify
themselves for the responsibilities of home
life, wherein there is almost constant need

[image]
NURSES’ HOME,  LATTER-DAY SAINTS’ HOSPITAL.

of the acquirements and intelligence of a
nurse. There have been a large number of
young women graduated from the Latter-
day Saints’ hospital and as one corps leaves
it is necessary to replenish the ranks in order
that the work in the hospital may not be
retarded.
	In June of this year fifteen young women
completed the three-year course and left
the hospital to follow their chosen profes-
sion in broader fields, independently and at
their own discretion. That they are well
prepared for their work is a certainty, for
after the military discipline and training
during the three years term they must have
received an experience and education along
their line of work that would well qualify
them to meet the emergencies and necessi-
ties the world outside offers them.
	At the close of the training each year
appropriate and delightful exercises are
held in honor of the graduates, when each
girl is the recipient of a class pin as well as
her diploma. At these exercises there are
always beautiful music and felicitous

[Column 2]
speeches, followed by a reception, re-
freshments and dancing—this in rec-
ognition of the girls’ hard work and
valuable services and as a fitting close
to their course of training. It surely
is a beautiful sight to see all the girls in
their becoming uniforms and to realize that
they have chosen as their mission the work
to ameliorate human suffering.
	The class of 1915 begins this month
and is already being formed. We would
urge the young women of the state, those
who desire a good practical training, to
avail themselves of this opportunity. Not
only is the training gained invaluable, but
the profession in itself is most remunerative
and no calling could be more in keeping
with an ideal life than that of nursing the
sick. In the Relief Society work it is espe-
cially necessary. Scarcely a day or night
but what these relief workers are called
upon. If we had at our command a few
trained nurses among us we would certainly
find our work much lighter and more satis-
factory. In fact, every ward should see to
it that they have at least one trained nurse,
whose services they could have when occa-
sion requires.
	We trust that the class of 1915 will be far
larger than any heretofore.


Mrs. Isabelle Earll of Joplin City, Mo.,
has been appointed by the County Court of
Jasper County to fill the office of justice of
the peace made vacant by the death of her
husband. During the six years that Mr.
Earll served as justice of the peace Mrs.
Earll has served as his clerk and stenog-
rapher. Except for hearing cases she has
done all of the work of the office. She has
issued warrants, summonses, attachments,
executions, garnishees and all other legal
forms originating in the office of a justice
of the peace. Mrs. Earll has a twelve-year-
old daughter who will probably assist in
the office.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH SEPTEMBER,	-	1912


VOLUME FORTY-ONE.
	It is impossible to express to our sisters
the disappointment we feel in having been
obliged to give up for the time being the
idea of presenting the EXPONENT in the
form of a magazine. However, we must
submit to the inevitable, meanwhile clinging
to the hope that before long it will be fully
as practicable as it already is desirable to
make the change.
	It is now, we think, admitted without dis-
pute that the Relief Society cannot and
must not be without an organ of its own
as a means of communication throughout
the organization. One has but to look over
the pages of the bound volumes of the EX-
PONENT for forty years past to realize most
fully what this little paper has done for the
women of Zion. Not only has the great
organization of the Relief Society been con-
stantly and loyally represented in its work
along many lines, but the Y. L. M. I. A. and
Primary also had in it a friend and cham-
pion before either of these organizations
had an organ of its own. To go even
further back, the early Retrenchment asso-
ciations, both senior and junior, found these
columns a willing medium in promulgating
their plans and purposes. The silk industry
and many other phases of women’s early
activities were here explained and pro-
moted. Indeed, every subject of interest
to women and every stake of Zion have
always had the freest opportunity for rep-
resentation in this little paper.
	The delay in issuing the present number
as the beginning of the new volume has
been due to the fact that we fully expected
to be able with this anniversary to present
the paper in new form. Reluctantly, and with
deep personal disappointment, we perceive 
now that this hope must be deferred. The
advice of experienced business men, well
acquainted not only with the resources of
this paper, but also with the publishing
business generally, constrains us to this
postponement of a cherished wish, and we
feel under all the circumstances that it is the
wiser and indeed the only safe thing to do.
But we renew the assurance that it is only
a temporary delay. The need for a circu-
lating organ is too apparent to require ar-
gument. Similarly, the ever-growing im-
portance of the society and its work de-
mands that this official organ be worthy and
adequate in every sense. It may therefore
be taken for granted that on our part there


will be no cessation of effort to accomplish
the desired end;  and we rejoice in the con-
fidence that our friends and patrons on their
part will be equally persistent in yielding
financial assistance and hearty moral sup-
port in achieving an object so near to the
hearts of us all.


OFFICE FOR WOMEN.
	It has been quite noticeable that notwith-
standing Utah is the second oldest suffrage
state, her women hold fewer offices than
the other four states where suffrage ob-
tains. This fact is referred to at times with
some criticism.  The women themselves ex-
plain the matter that while they enjoy the
right of franchise they, generally speaking,
do not care for office, at any rate sufficiently
to enter the arena of politics and battle for
position.  Still it would only be justice to
that part of the voters, a possible half, and
all men must admit the better half, to place
at least one state office on each party ticket,
not to mention the county, city, and school
positions.  That those who seem to control
the work of the conventions and elections
have been anything but generous towards
the women of the state, is quite evident, and
especially was this noticeable at the recent
conventions held in this city, when the Dem-
ocratic party did not even nominate a woman
for place,  and the Republican party voted
down the one nominee whose name had
been presented—a woman admittedly capa-
ble in every particular, one who had been
tried and proven efficient as a county officer,
and one who would have filled the position
with dignity and credit.
	We have met similar defeats in elections
and appointments on school boards, posi-
tions where the service of women is espe-
cially needed and for which they would seem
especially fitted.  This fact is recognized
even in England and many of the eastern
states where suffrage does not yet exist; but
either from prejudice or thoughtlessness it
seems slow in making its way here. Ap-
peals alike to the justice and to the gal-
lantry of the sterner sex appear to be in
vain. Need they be surprised to awaken
some day and find that the women have
taken courage and entered the political
field for themselves and with the force of
the ballot set out to win the rights and posi-
tions desired?
	It is to be regretted that small excuses,
sometimes ridiculous ones, keep women
away from the primaries and the polls, the
two places where if they really desired to
hold office they ought to go. There are so
very many reforms necessary in social gov-
ernment in which women are especially in-
terested and for which they are constantly
working, that it is surprising to note their
apathy in political matters.  If the woman
bread earner is to have an equal chance
with the man bread earner in private em-
ployment, why not the same equal chance
in public office?  Let the ballot tell.


DR. ROBERTS’ NURSE CLASS.
	Dr. Margaret C. Roberts announces in
this issue of the EXPONENT that she will
again have a class in nursing and obstetrics.
We are pleased to draw attention to this
fact for we realize that there is great need
among the people generally for nurses and
midwives. The Relief Society especially


have many calls which they find impossible
to fill among the laboring classes who do
not ask for charity, work but feel unable to
pay the high prices of the hospital trained
nurse; furthermore, it is a great benefit to
every woman to have some knowledge of
physiology and hygiene; in fact in order to
be an intelligent and successful mother such
knowledge is absolutely necessary. We ac-
cordingly urge the sisters to assist in ob-
taining young women to take this course.
There are hundreds of graduates from Dr.
Roberts’ classes now practicing in different
localities with admirable success; and the
people everywhere are greatly benefited by
being able to obtain the services of these
efficient young women.


Dr. Harvey W. Wiley, in his recent ad-
dress before the Council of Jewish Women
at Pittsburg, Pa., spoke of the marked
growth of woman suffrage sentiment in the
country. He said that when he made his first
suffrage speech, in 1878, the question was
unpopular; but that today, if he were to
become a candidate for office, his being a
suffragist would help his election.


A PETITION.
“For an acceptable sacrifice bring me a broken
	heart and a contrite spirit.”
When Thou didst send me here on earth
	awhile,
Free was my spirit from all sin and guile;
Sweet are the mem’ries of those early years.
Yet in their passing, gathered doubts and
	fears;
Fallen the idols on life’s way, 
Gone are the dear ones of a brighter day,
And desolate, I bow,
And plead that in Thy pity, Thou
Wilt reach and find me.

Then—if a broken heart atone for all,
In Thy compassion, wilt thou hear my call?
Then—might I hear in voice of love Divine,
“All that I promised unto thee is thine;”
Then as a bird loosed from captivity
Singing soars upward, so would I be free
From griefs that blind me now—
And wake from death in joy, and Thou
Receive my spirit.
	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.


MRS. SARAH PLATTE DECKER.
	The closing days of the recent biennial
held in San Francisco were very much
clouded by the sudden illness and death
of that beloved and useful woman, Mrs.
Sarah Platte Decker. Mrs. Decker had
been quite conspicuous in the early
sessions of the convention, but after
the trip taken through the Santa
Clara Valley it was noticed that her
strength was overtaxed, she suddenly be-
came very ill and physicians were sum-
moned. From the first her condition was
serious and following an operation which
was resorted to as the last hope, she passed
away. Mrs. Decker was an active woman
suffragist, for many years giving liberally
both of her time and means to the cause.
Largely through her efforts the Denver
Woman’s Club reached its high standard
among the leading clubs of American cities
and the national federation, recognizing her
ability, elected her president of the General
Federation in 1904. Mrs. Decker was one
of the foremost women of the nation, well
known as a tireless worker in many public
spirited movements. Her death caused
great sorrow and is certainly a severe loss
to the women of the nation.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		PAROWAN STAKE.
	The Parowan Stake conference convened
at Cedar City May 27, 1912, presided over
by President Mary E. Ollerton, with her
counselors and Stake board all present.
	Sisters Emily S. Richards and Julia P.
M. Farnsworth of the General Board were
present and gave some excellent counsel,
nstructions and encouragement to the sis-
ters.
	Fine musical numbers were rendered
during the three meetings held, also some
very good papers read.
	Several Other good speakers occupied a
short time.
	The Stake was reported in good condi-
tion.
	After the forenoon meeting an excellent
luncheon was served at the ward hall by
the sisters of Cedar City.
	A good spirit prevailed during the day
and evening, and the conference was very
much enjoyed by all present.
			LENA C. MORRIS,
					Stake Secretary.

		UINTAH  STAKE.
	The conference of the Uintah Stake Re-
lief Society was held in Jensen ward June
2, 1912.
	There were present on the stand Stake
President Don B. Colton and First Coun-
selor David Bennion, Patriarch Nelson
Merkley, members of the High Council, the
Ward Bishopric and many others besides the
Stake officers of the Relief Society. After
the opening exercises and the administering
of the sacrament the meeting was turned
over to the Relief Society, Stake President
Nancy M. Colton presiding.
	Sister Colton reported the Stake work
and gave good instructions to the sisters.
She drew attention to the Sego lily, which
was used in profusion for the decoration and
referred to the time when the people in dire
distress had found that the root of this plant
contained nourishment and had probably
prevented suffering when the people had
used it for food in the early settlement of
the state.
	A sketch of the life of Eliza R. Snow was
given by Mrs. Annie K. Bartlett. Instruc-
tive and entertaining remarks were made
by Mrs. Zina Dudley, President Don B. Col-
ton, Bishop Archie Richardson and others.
	During the services a fine musical pro-
gram was rendered.
			PHEBE A. MERKLEY,
							Secretary.

		BEAR RIVER STAKE.
	The semi-annual conference was held at
the Garland Social Hall, Jan. 12, 1912, at
10 and 2 o’clock respectively. Stake Presi-
dent Milton H. Welling, Bishops K. H.
Fridahl and R. G. Watt, Elder W. Wallace
of the Stake Religion Class, Sisters Alice
Merrill Horne and Sarah McClelland, of
the General Board, were present, also nine
Stake Board members and a very good rep-
resentation of officers and members from
each of the twelve societies.
	President Margaret W. Manning pre-
sided. The opening and closing prayers of
the forenoon session were offered by Bish- 
ops K. H. Fridahl and R. G. Watt respec-
tively, while Sister Mary A. Green and

[Column 2]
Elder W. Wallace offered the opening and
closing prayers of the afternoon session.
	President M. W. Manning gave a very
favorable report of the condition of the
Relief Society in the Stake, showing by the
splendid attendance at the monthly officers’
meeting that the sisters are interested in
their work. Ninety-three dollars was read-
ily given and forwarded for the relief of
the flood and famine sufferers. During the
month of May sixteen days had been spent
in the temple by Relief Society sisters from
the Bear River Stake.
	Stake Treasurer Anna W. Larson con-
ducted an exercise, illustrating the “Home
Work” She told a beautiful story, shew-
ing the lasting influence of early stories,
songs, thoughts, etc., on young minds. Also
gave a practical story that correlated with
the song, “Sweeping and Dusting,” which
the congregation sang.
	President Milton H. Welling made en-
couraging remarks and commended the sis-
ters for their faithful and energetic work
in the Relief Society.
	Sisters Horne and McClelland each very
ably addressed both sessions of the confer-
ence. Sister McClelland, having been a
missionary, cited many interesting incidents
connected with her work and especially in-
terested her audience with a detailed account
of her visit to Nauvoo and surrounding
places connected with the early history of
the Latter-day Saints. Sister Horne, in
speaking of individual possibilities, said:
“We all have them and it is for us to de-
velop them and help to develop them in
others. We can all go to Heaven if we
want to, and we can make Heaven here on
earth by right living. We should look for
the beautiful in nature and in the whole
world.”
	During the afternoon session, Sister Essie
E. Foulger very beautifully rendered the
vocal solo, “Babylon,” and Master Earl
Evans gave a piano selection in an able
manner.
	An excellent spirit prevailed during both
sessions of the conference and those who
gave parts on the program were attentively
listened to by the audience.
	During the intermission a refreshing
lunch, that had been prepared by the sisters
from the various wards, was served by the
Garland Relief Society sisters.
	Ex-President, Julia A. Richards showed
that her thoughts and love were with us
by sending some beautiful flowers which
brightened the room and the spirits of those
present.
	We were also made glad by the message
from “Aunt Em” and the General Board
that their love and blessing were extended
to us in our work.
			ALICE S. LARSON,
					Stake Secretary.

		ONEIDA STAKE.
	Minutes of annual conference of the
Oneida Stake Relief Society held at Pres-
ton, May 19, 1912, in the Stake house, Pres-
ident Louisa B. Benson presiding.
	There were present Alice M. Horne and
Jennie A. Hyde of the General Board; Stake
President Joseph S. Geddes, other leading
brethren and 310 people.
	The singing was furnished by the Stake
choir under Prof. Charles Engar. Singing,
“Now Let Us Rejoice,” etc. Prayer, Elder
John Larson. Singing, “Our Mountain

[Column 3]
Home So Dear.” Roll call denoted 20
societies represented. President Benson
welcomed all and gave a brief general re-
port which denoted progress in the “Moth-
ers’” work and increase in enrollment. The
above welcome was beautifully responded
to by Meda Nelson.
	Statistical and financial report for the
year ending Dec. 31, 1911, read and ap-
proved. Secretary Phebe A. M. McNiel
reported the societies of the Stake as being
in satisfactory condition. Choir sang
“Count Your Blessings.”
	Mrs. Alice M. Horne addressed the con-
ference on the subject of the Relief Society,
bettering the conditions of the home, the
world, and of its power to give cheer and
comfort, and of the power of the individual
over self; and said: “Salvation will only
be obtained as we conquer self; the giant
‘greed’ must be banished and humility and
charity cultivated.”
	Mrs. Jennie A. Hyde gave greetings from
President E. B. Wells to the people of
Oneida Stake; was delighted to see so many
brethren present; spoke of the loving min-
istrations of the Relief Society teachers.
	President Joseph Geddes appreciated the
words of the sisters; spoke of the privilege
of living in this day; hoped all gloried in
the gospel and would live up to the light
within; advised all to be courageous and
prayerful.
	President Benson urged the Relief Socie-
ties to at once take up the work of assisting
the flood sufferers.
	Singing, “If There’s Sunshine in Your
Heart.”
	Benediction, Alice M. Horne.

		AFTERNOON SESSION.
	Singing, “Awake, Ye Saints of God,
Awake.”
	Prayer, Elder S. H. Hale.
	Singing, “Sweet Is the Peace the Gospel
Brings.”
	Sacrament was next administered. 
	There were present 13 bishops and 695
people.
	Reading, “A Thread of Thought,” by
Melissa Maughan.
	Mrs. Jennie A. Hyde expressed joy at
seeing so many of the priesthood and such
a vast audience present; spoke of woman’s
power, the Savior breaking her estate of
thralldom, and advised her to live up to her
privilege and merit all blessings. Asked all
to seek the better part, the gifts of the
gospel and become broader and better.
	Solo, “Fear Not Ye, O Israel,” Sarah
Gerard.
	Alice M. Horne spoke of her early life;
her desire and struggle for an education;
said, “Every soul who comes to earth has
the power to progress and gain knowledge
if they will but try;” spoke of the blessings
our sorrows often are; how God-like it is
to reach out a helping hand to those in dis-
tress; advised all to seek for truth and
grasp all opportunities.
	State School Superintendent Nelson of
Utah spoke on education. Among other
good things he said: “Every individual
owes it to himself and his fellowman to de-
velop himself and find his true vocation.”
“Every true mother is a queen in the earth.”
	General and Stake officers were sustained.
	Singing, “Grant Us Peace.”
	Benediction, by Coun. Taylor.
			PHEBE A. M. MCNIEL,
							Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	SOME OLD LOVE LETTERS.
	The romance of life helps one to bear its
burdens; matter of fact people to the con-
trary notwithstanding. And perhaps one
of the most interesting things that invaria-
bly lends charm to real life is a love letter,
whether it is a few words ungrammatically
written, or an epistle filled with the choicest
language; it matters not if the person by
whom the words were penned is capable of
pouring into the composition the true elo-
quence of the soul, it finds its counterpart
in the heart of the receiver, and is forever
cherished among the most valuable treas-
ures. I am aware of the old saying, it is
easy to put things on paper, but it is also
tolerably easy to discern whether the heart
is in it or not. There may be exceptions to
this rule as there are to all others, but many
a happy union has been consummated be-
cause of some outpouring of the human
heart on paper; and many a reconciliation
has been effected through a love letter
where a misunderstanding or a lover’s quar-
rel had existed. Some strange things have
happened too, worth relating for the amuse-
ment of a winter evening, for though we
speak of Spring as the lover’s season, and
there is not a month in all the year more
appropriate for weddings or when more
unions are consummated than “June the
month of roses and love,” yet the courting
has been done beforehand in the long winter
evenings and finished off possibly in the
lovely Spring time, with the perfume of
violets in the air and the sweet songs of the
wild birds in their ecstacy, nest building;
by the brink of some mossy brook or flow-
ing fountain, or under the apple boughs 
when the pink and white blossoms were
fluttering to the ground. But apropos of
old love letters we have a most enchanting
tale to tell.
	In the old-fashioned houses of the
last century there was generally a garret
and these places were the repository of
everything that the family wanted to put
out of sight, and occasionally some treasure
would be lost among the heaps of rubbish
carried up there, when the clearing up or
house cleanings were in progress.
	This story is a very old one, and has not
been put in a book or published to the world
before, so that although it is old it will
nevertheless be as good as new, for it has
been well-kept. The principal actors in the
pretty drama are dead long ago, but we do
not even at this late date feel justified in
giving their real names.
	A little girl prying about among the old
lumber in the garret at her grandmother’s
one day, hunting doll rags, found a bundle
of old letters tied with a very faded and
soiled yellow lute-string ribbon wound so
many times around it that she thought it
would make a sash for her dolly and pro-
ceeded forthwith to untie the knots, and
scatter the letters among the rubbish, never
dreaming that in so doing, she was divulg-
ing a secret or disclosing a treachery. But
so it proved.
	“Where in the world did you get that
ribbon?” said Aunt Dorothy one day to her
little grand niece who was playing with her
dolly in the drawing-room, and then such a
crowd of memories came rushing back as
she took the once pretty ribbon in her fin-
gers, fondling it, that little Helen suspected
she had done something naughty, but the
child was on the best of terms with Aunt

[Column 2]
Dorothy, and as if to make reparation said,
“I found it in the garret and washed it for
my new doll, it was tied in such hard knots
around a bundle of old papers with ink so
faded no one could ever read them.” “What
did you do with them, child ?” said Aunt
Dorothy, excitedly. “I threw them down
again in the corner with a whole lot of other
things.” “You didn’t tear them then nor
burn them up?” “O, no, why I thought
grandma wouldn’t like that; I only wanted
the pretty ribbon; such a nice pattern.”
“Very odd,” replied Aunt Dorothy, in an
absent way, and was soon slowly and
thoughtfully wending her way up the stair-
case, and then on again to the garret, talk-
ing to herself as she went; “I wonder what
letters could have been hid away up there
for all these years. It’s forty years or more
since I wore that ribbon, how happy I was
then and what a bright future I anticipated,
and then came those evil days, when a dark
shadow lurked in the horizon which sur-
rounded me. O, why have these remem-
brances come back; just at the sight of a
faded ribbon?” Sure enough, why do those
tender days that are gone come back and
haunt us, when we have groped blindly
through the darkness and sorrow and find
ourselves calmed by tile distance that divides
us from the dismal past!’ Thus musing,
Miss Dorothy Vose mounted the last step
and surveyed the garret searchingly; she
went through pile after pile of cast off cloth-
ing, etc., and just as the last rays of the
setting sun shed their pale yellow light in
through the open window, she discovered
some papers peeping from out a corner and
tremblingly reached out to take the shat-
tered workbox containing them, for such it
proved to be in her hands. She shook like
an aspen tree as she lifted it, and it fell in
fragments at her feet, and out from the
papers rolled down among the rubbish on
the floor a ring with a glowing setting.
For a moment she seemed stunned, a great
sob came swelling up in her throat, and her
mouth was dry and parched, and she sank
down, upon the floor as pathetically as if
she had been a beautiful young girl still in
her teens, instead of an old maid of half a
century.
	But no one would have guessed her age,
for she was still strikingly handsome and
exquisitely neat in her dress, and had that
sort of delicate way of adjusting everything
that we call stylish, the draping of her brown
silk dress lay about her in soft folds; and
with her eyes suffused with tears, she gazed
wonderingly upon the lost ring she had
found after all these long years. So many
times she had ransacked boxes, drawers and
closets, in possible and impossible places,
and now it had come to light too late, when
her hair was silvered o’er and her eyes faded
with weeping. An emerald ring, engraved
“D. V.” from “E. L.,” such a peculiar
shape, a rare beauty she had once thought,
and now what a train of recollections it
brought back, how well she remembered the
night, he had given it to her under the great
elm tiee, in the yard, and pledged his faith,
his honor, the devotion, of a life time, and
begged her to be his promised bride, and
with maiden blushes, and modest downcast
eyes more eloquent than words, she had
given him his silent answer. The few
months that followed the betrothal had been
full of sweetness and the tenderest associa-
tion lovers could enjoy whose sentiments
were so near akin. But in their case the

[Column 3]
old adage proved true, “The course of true
love never runs smooth.”
	But we must not leave Aunt Dorothy
shivering in the garret while we go over her
past life, and tell what befell her, and why
she was a lonely old maid in the home of
her childhood, where the third generation
was now growing up, instead of being a
happy grandmother like her sister-in-law
who was only a few years older. 
	Singular coincidences sometimes tran-
spire that night almost leads us to believe
in the fatuity of certain events acting upon
each other years had passed by since, any-
thing had happened to call up these tender
reminiscences in Aunt Dorothy’s past and
now just a faded old ribbon had awakened
a torrent of emotions, and a flood of events
came rushing onward.
	The shades of evening were falling and
Miss Vose gathered up the broken box and
scraps of paper in her black silk apron, and
fled down the stairs to her own room as
though all the ghosts of those haunted
memories were following her. Once in her
chamber with the door securely fastened,
she picked up piece by piece the broken
workbox where these papers had been hid-
den away. She knew the box well, it had
been a handsome one inlaid with pearl, but
now fallen apart, disclosing its contents.
But how came the ring in the possession
of the owner of the box; that was a mystery
she could never expect to unravel, not even
if she could make up her mind to read the
letters, which she hardly dared to think of
yet though they were in her keeping. She
took the faded fragments one by one and
laid them together, and the broken box and
put them in a drawer and turned the key as
if to shut them out of her sight, and away
from the temptation of reading them. Her
face was paler than usual, and her limbs
quivered as she descended to the dining-
room when supper was announced, but ap-
parently no one noticed anything unusual
in her face or manner except little Helen,
who had not forgotten how strangely her
aunt had questioned her about the yellow
ribbon, and when they were leaving the
table the child approached her saying, “Are
you ill, Aunt Dorothy?” “No child, not ill,
only thinking, thinking of the long ago,
when I wore the faded yellow ribbon.”
“Were you a little girl then like me?” in-
quired the little grand-niece. “O, no, I was
a young lady with great expectations ” said
Aunt Dorothy with a strong emphasis on
the two last words. Little Helen looked
puzzled, but with childish persistency she
pursued her inquiries: “Was that when your
picture was painted that hangs in grandpa’s
room over his desk?” “My picture was
painted so long ago I really don’t know. I
never look at it.” “It is not like your mam-
ma’s, Aunt Dorothy, is it?” “Yes, a little.”
“I believe you had the yellow ribbon on,
that’s what made you take so much notice of
it when you saw it today.” Miss Vose was
glad the child was satisfied and soon after
retired for the night; she could not, how-
ever, yet make up her mind to read the
letters, a sort of dread of discovering some
disagreeable secret seemed to forbid the
perusal. She tried in vain to sleep, the
wretched past came so vividly to mind, that
the gray dawn of morning found her still
tossing upon her pillows, her head aching
and eyelids heavy with weeping. Finally,
she fell asleep; the bright sunshine stream-
ing into her room awoke her, and she


[Column 1]
started up suddenly but lay down for a
moment or two and thought over again the
dream from which she had been aroused.
She had certainly had a remarkable dream.
	At the breakfast table the family noticed
her pale face and languid manner and anx-
iously inquired what the matter was, for
they all dearly loved Aunt Dorothy; she
replied perhaps the peculiar dream she had
that morning was the cause, and her brother
and his daughter joined in the request that
she should tell the dream.
	And she related it as follows: “I dreamed
a stranger came to the house and told us of
some golden plates, that had been shown by
an angel to a young man, who had handled
them and had seen the characters engraved
upon them in a language not known to him,
but afterwards had translated them by the
inspiration of the Holy Ghost, and the trans-
lation had been published in a book; and he
had the book with him and showed it to us,
and then the scene changed and we were in
the woods about a mile from here where
the river is deep between those big rocks,
and the same stranger stood in the water
and baptized us all, and I shivered with
cold and woke with the sun shining into
my room.”
	“Dorothy,” said her brother, addressing
her, “did you know the man who came
bearing this Gospel message?” Dorothy
replied rather reluctantly, “I think I did, it
was one we knew intimately in days gone
by.” Mr. Vose knew very well what his
sister meant when she spoke thus, for they
never had mentioned his name for years,
even to each other. “I cannot think why I
should dream of him after all these long
years, but it was a singular dream, don’t
you think so?” “Very strange, but then
you must not think of it, you look quite ill
and sad, and if you brood over such hal-
lucinations and night visions, you will be
getting ‘the blues’ in earnest.”
	Dorothy did not tell her brother how she
had found the missing ring and the letters
the day before, reason enough why she
should dream of her old lover, but during
the day the dream and the reality both
troubled her, and she resolved to put an end
to her imaginary fears by going over the
old letters to see why they had been left
behind, when those whom she was sure they
most concerned had fled like fugitives and
had never returned.
	What was that lady’s amazement when
she put on her spectacles and looked at the
papers to find one of her own letters, ad-
dressed to Miss Dorothy Vose, Shutesbury,
Mass. It was sealed with a pink wafer and
on it was the initial “L.” She paused in a
tremor of excitement. Why had this letter
lain there all these years hidden away from
her, and she unknowing of its ever having
been written. She could not open it now,
it seemed too much joy—and yet she knew
not what it contained, but it was from Ed-
ward, her lover—O, so long ago—and yet
she could never hear his name, without her
heart beating more rapidly and her face
betraying the emotion felt within.
	She took up the fragments of paper one
by one, and found some in his handwriting
addressed to Miss Mary Stacy, her cousin
and rival, she could not and would not read
them, she fancied she knew the purport of
their contents. Her own letter she kissed
again and again, and tried to summon
courage to read it, she had no need to break
the pretty seal, for the corners were worn

[Column 2]
and it was easy to open the folds, for those
were not the days of envelopes, remember;
she turned the letter over and over, until a
curl of pretty auburn hair fell from it, and
she could no longer resist the desire to see
what he had written in the long ago.
	The auburn curl was more than the em-
erald ring, for it was part of himself; he
might be dead, she knew not; but this pretty
curl was something she could keep; how
vexed she had felt when Helen found the
ribbon, but now how glad, it had led to the
unfolding of a mystery, the lost ring, and
the auburn curl, two treasures she would
cherish while life lasted; the hatred and
jealousy of her cousin were gone now,
though the sorrow had never left her heart,
but she had long ago forgiven them both,
and would have been glad to know if they
were still living, for love outlives envy,
jealousy and rivalry, it is purer, and better,
and more enduring.
	And the letter, methinks I hear you say;
it was hours before dear Aunt Dorothy had
the courage to open its folds. It was like a
message from an unknown region, out of
the beautiful past. At last she took up the
scraps and put them together, for as she
tried to open it the pieces fell apart—and
her heart almost stood still while she gazed
upon the words—“Miss Dorothy Vose once
my affianced wife:” the letter was dated
Boston, Mass., Jan., 1805, and in it he
poured out in burning words his love, his
disappointment, reproaching her for incon-
stancy and entreating her to accept a lock
of his hair, that in some lonely hour when
she had forgotten his devotion she might be
reminded of him; the ring he had given her
he asked her to keep but never to wear it
again, as it had been a pledge of mutual
love and constancy as well as of their be-
trothal.
	In conclusion he said: “I have long been
aware that your cousin Mary loved me, and
when she returns to Boston, if I hear no
more from you, I shall ask her hand in mar-
riage. If I cannot win the heart of her
whom I have chosen out of all the world,
I will devote myself to making another
happy, who loves me with unutterable ten-
derness. Farewell! and if we never meet
again remember that you have driven me
from you with your pride and hauteur.”
	The words were cruel and hastily penned
no doubt, but poor Dorothy never had the
opportunity to reply to them nor had she
even known that Edward deigned to make
any explanation of his singular conduct.
	It was true that Ma[-]y loved him, she had
never disguised her feelings in her cousin’s
presence, though she was her guest and
aware of the engagement. Dorothy saw
her lover d[---] away from her, and her
modesty and r[---]cence kept her from any
demonstration of her suffering. Edward
attributed it to coldness and indifference.
Mary was well versed in the art of coquet-
ry, and it was an easy matter to win her
country cousin’s lover; her heart was in the
matter, too, for though she had gone
through two or three gay seasons, since she
became of age, no one had ever interested
her like Edward Laselle.
	He was indeed a brilliant young man,
with bright prospects in store and it was not
strange that she should love him, but he
was blind not to see that behind the reserve
of Miss Dorothy there was a depth of senti-
ment that her cousin Mary was incapable of
feeling; she was a gay butterfly of fashion,

[Column 3]
fond of dancing and society, while her
country cousin was staid and womanly, fond
of home-life and ready to make sacrifices
for the happiness of others instead of seek-
ing her own.
	But we will not go back into the details
of the occurrences that had left Miss Doro-
thy alone in the old home, there is no need,
for in a short time after the finding of the
letter and the ring, her dream came to pass
literally.
	One Sabbath evening in mid-winter the
family were seated round the fire talking
over the sermon they had heard that day,
and Aunt Dorothy expressed some dissatis-
faction as to the genuineness of the preach-
er: “It did not come from his heart,” she
argued, and was therefore ineffective; “what
would I give to hear the voice of a true
preacher of righteousness?” added the lady,
and she continued, “hear the Scriptures ex-
pounded as I understand them; I am weary
of the tone and manner of our orthodox
ministers, it has grown monotonous to me.”
“Dorothy,” said her brother, who was the
only one who ever dared to disagree with
the lady, “don’t you think you are growing
very extreme in your ideas? Is there any-
thing that comes up to your standard of ex-
cellence? Aren’t you looking for a miracle?
Remember these are not the days of the
Savior and his Apostles, though we do pro-
fess to be his followers.”
	“Yes, but we’ve all gone astray, priests
and people, and for me I am longing for
something stronger to lean upon than these
fragmentary discourses that have no soul in
them; there is nothing Christ-like about
them,” replied his sister.
	How many in this country and across the
sea in other lands were influenced about that
period, and since, by the spirit of the times;
a forerunner of what was about to transpire!
	That very evening after the conversation
here related and other remarks upon the
same subject, the great old-fashioned
knocker on the front door made a clanging
sound echoing through the house, and when
the door was opened two strangers in heavy
overcoats and frosty beards announcing
themselves as missionaries asked for a
night’s lodging.
	They were not kept out in the cold air
many seconds, for this was a hospitable
house and being a little distance from the
town, travelers often stopped for dinner or
over night. When the gentlemen were
ushered into the warm sittingroom, they
were kindly greeted by the master and mis-
tress as well as the younger members of the
household and Mr. Vose inquired if they
had taken supper. Something in the voice
of the elder man sounded familiar to the
host, and he said: “Are you from a dis-
tance? You seem like a Western man, but,”
and he directed his glance to the first
speaker, “your accent is decidedly Eastern.”
Laselle, for it was he, could no longer con-
ceal his identity, no matter what sort of re-
ception he might receive; he had come pur-
posely, though thinking after so many
years he might not be recognized. He re-
plied to Mr. Vose that he was from the
West, but formerly resided in Boston; that
in days gone by he had been "quite a reg-
ular visitor in this very house.”
	“And you come here now for shelter and
as a missionary preaching the word of the
Lord, after the deception [-]ou practiced, be-
traying the confidence of my sister,”—Be-
fore he could finish the sentence Dorothy


[Column 1]
Vose had risen to her feet and with the same
complacent dignity that had characterized
her throughout her whole life, she inter-
posed, “My dear brother, these men are our
guests for tonight, do not expose our family
affairs to them, nor here before these young
people. Let us speak soberly together and
apart if needs be.” Edward Laselle looked
like one amazed; he had also risen to his
feet when Mr. Vose accosted him in that
recriminating tone, in fact he had expected
a scene of some sort, though until he entered
the house that evening he knew not if Dor-
othy was living or dead, nor whether the
place was in possession of any he had
formerly been acquainted with; but he had
been sent out into the New England States
to preach the Gospel and his footsteps had
led him there.
	The explanations that followed that night
were satisfactory as far as was now possi-
ble. Alone in the old familiar parlor where
they had sat many an evening in “the long
ago,” though somewhat modernized now,
Edward Laselle and Dorothy Vose, with
her brother, talked over the events of the
past so closely interwoven with their lives.
She explained to him how only a few days
before she had found the lost ring, then
the unopened letter, though she did not
mention the auburn curl; Edward betrayed
much more emotion than she did, and Mr.
Vose was perhaps quite as much astonished
as either. Mr. Laselle did not offer any
solution of the unexplained mystery, not
did he ask if Miss Vose was still single, he
seemed fearful of venturing upon untried
ground; but Dorothy, who had seen him in
a dream, inquired what his mission was,
and what book he had under his arm when
he came into the room. Thus a conversa-
tion began that lasted for hours and was
renewed again in the early morning.
	When Aunt Dorothy retired for the night
she had much to reflect upon that was new
to her. It was the beginning of the fulfill-
ment of her dream; she was impressed with
the testimony borne to her by the “Mor-
mon” Elder and so was her brother; they
believed the truth as soon as it was made
known to them. How wonderful it all
seemed! Had Mr. Laselle arrived at the
house previous to the discovery of the letter
he would have been turned away without a
hearing, but the finding of the ring and the
letter had so softened the heart of Miss
Dorothy, that she was willing to bury all
old grievances and make him welcome. It
was not long before all the household were
ready for baptism and as Aunt Dorothy
dreamed so it came to pass, that the ice was
cut up in the woods between the big rocks
and there on a peaceful Sabbath morning
one week from the date of their arrival the
whole Vose family were baptized by Ed-
ward Laselle, the “Mormon” Elder. The
Elders had remained in that vicinity during
the week preaching every evening and ex-
pounding the doctrines of the Church as
opportunities offered. There were several
others besides the Vose family that received
baptism, and ere long a branch of the
Church was organized.
	Before Edward Laselle left the neighbor-
hood he sought an interview with Miss Dor-
othy Vose which she granted him. He
learned when she was baptized that she was
still only plain Miss Dorothy Vose, and he
was desirous naturally of learning more,
and yet he felt he had no claim upon her
confidence. The interview he sought was

[Column 2]
cheerfully granted him in the old parlor,
and there he told the story of his life.
	Not obtaining any reply to his letter and
confidently believing her to be too proud to
relent, or perchance in love with another, he
had asked Mary Stacy to be his wife and
she had consented without hesitation or re-
serve. Almost immediately after their
marriage they had taken “the Western
fever” and had gone out to Ohio.
	There at an early period after the Church
was established in Kirtland he had heard
the Gospel and embraced it, and ever since
that time he had been a firm believer and
advocate of its principles. When he was
called to go out as a missionary his appoint-
ment was to the New England States, and
his inclination had led him to visit the
scenes of his youth.
	Mary his wife had been dead a number
of years, his daughters had kept house for
him, but they were all married now and he
was quite alone.
	And so in the same old parlor Edward
and Dorothy forgave each other, “kissed
and made up;” we will leave the rest to the
readers’ imagination and only tell them
that this time they married, and Dorothy
consoled herself with the thought that had
it not been for the misunderstanding be-
tween them, Edward would probably not
have been a “Mormon,” nor would she
have had the privilege of hearing the glad
tidings. And if she had not found the old
love letters, she would have allowed her
brother to send him away that Sabbath
evening as he fully intended to do. There
might be another story written on their mar-
ried life and what happened, but we only
add, that the Vose family gathered with the
Saints along with many others from that
vicinity.					E. B. W.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


It is utterly impossible to express, in
words, the deep regret we feel in not being
able at this time to bring out a woman’s
magazine suited to the needs and condi-
tions of the women of the Relief Society,
which is the most representative organiza-
tion of its kind in the world. We most
cordially invite the members of this Soci-
ety, and more particularly the younger
women, to contribute articles to the paper
on such subjects as are suited to the young
mothers, also poems and other literary mat-
ter namely, short stories, etc. The lives
and experiences of Mormon women are re-
plete with incidents for story-telling that
would interest all those who delight in ver-
satile reading.
					THE EDITOR.


IN MEMORIAM.
	Eliza Ann Okerlund, a faithful worker in
the Relief Society, died on June 22, 1912,
and the Loa ward Relief Society lost one
of its most beloved workers. In her honor
the following resolutions were passed:


RESOLUTIONS IN HONOR OF SISTER ELIZA ANN
			OKERLUND.
	Whereas, In the allwise providence of our
Heavenly Father it has pleased Him to call
from our midst Sister Eliza Ann Okerlund,
second counselor of the Relief Society in the
Loa ward.
	Therefore, Be it resolved that in the pass-
ing away of our beloved sister, we, the
officers and members of said association, are
bereft of a wise counselor and a cheerful and
loving associate.
	Sister Lida was ever ready at the call of
duty, no matter what her physical suffering
might have been. She carried not only her
own burdens but lightened those of others.
The needy and the suffering ones always found
in her “A Ministering Angel” in the truest
sense of the word. Her gentle presence filled
[-]he home with comfort and delight.
	Resolved, That we mourn the loss of Sister
Okerlund and appreciate the worthy example
set by her. We, her sisters and co-laborers,
extend to her bereaved husband and children
our heartfelt sympathy and pray God to com-
fort them in their great sorrow.
	Be It Further Resolved, That one copy of
these resolutions be presented to the family
of the deceased, one copy sent to her son Ivin,
who has just departed to fill a mission to the
Eastern States, a copy be sent for publication
to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT, and one copy be
placed on file in our Relief Society.
	We, the following, sign in behalf of the Loa
Relief Society.
				JAMIMA HOOD,
				EMILY BLACKBURN,
				ROSA M. LAZENBY.


The Bishop of Oxford at the Represen-
tative Church Council in England a few days
ago, made a motion to include the votes of
women in the election of representatives in
various church conferences. He added that,
as women were doing nine-tenths of the
work of the church, their exclusion from the
right to vote on matters which so intimate-
ly and obviously concerned them was really
scandalous.


SCHOOL IN NURSING
				AND
			OBSTETRICS

	DR. MARGARET C. ROBERTS
will commence her school in Nursing Monday,
September 23, 1912. Course continues eight
months. Class in Obstetrics will start Octo-
ber 10, 1912. (Those who study Obstetrics are
required to attend the Nurse Class. No extra
charge.)
Terms for Nursing.............................$25.00
Terms for Obstetrics..........................$50.00
Approximate cost of text books, $5.00 to $8.00
	Every young woman may not wish to be a
Nurse, yet to know herself physically is im-
portant to every woman. The instructions
given in these classes will better prepare
woman for the high duties of wifehood and
motherhood.
	For further information, write to
		DR. MARGARET C. ROBERTS,
Bell Phone 2002. 79 C St., Salt Lake City.

R K. THOMAS CO., 67-69 MAIN STREET,
					SALT LAKE CITY.
	The most becoming Styles in Ladies’
	Suits, Coats, Dresses, Skirts, and
	Waists at Popular Prices.
THE STORE WHERE YOU CAN FEEL AT HOME


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Organ of the Latter-day Saints’ Woman’s Relief Society.
Vol. 41. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER, 1912 No. 2.


CONTENTS.
Faith.........................................Aunt Em	9
Quinquennial Report..............................	9
Relief Society Conference......................	10
The Mother’s Paradise............................	11 
Suggestive Plan for Betterment Work....	14
Notes About Women...............................	13
In Memoriam..........................................	16
Relief Society Reports:
	Liberty Stake..................................	14
	Nebo Stake.....................................	14
	Malad Stake....................................	14
	Ogden Stake...................................	15
	Snowflake Stake.............................	15
	Uinta Stake.....................................	15
Editorial:
	Desultory Thoughts........................	12
	Women Recognized........................	12
	The General Conference.................	12
	Great Bodies Meet..........................	13
	Notice.............................................	13
	Correspondence A..........................	13
Poetry:
	Sonnet..............Emmeline B. Wells	9
	The Rose..................Dolores Watts	9
	His Handicap..................................	14
	Old Mothers....................................	16


SONNET.
Here comes October with its gorgeous flowers,
	And Nature’s voices a glad anthem singing,
	The echoes clear thro’ hill and valley ringing,
Filling with joy the Autumn’s happy hours,
And beauty blossoms in the fairest bowers.
	The pretty maidens in their silken gowns
	Of green, and yellow, and of russet browns
Are dancing where the bright leaves fall in
		showers;
Fairies with dainty feet in colors bright,
	The sweetest, fondest memories bringing
		Of festivals we’ve held on life’s highways,
That live and burn within our souls tonight;
		Remembrances around our heart-strings
			clinging,
			Recalling purest joys of glad birthdays.
						—Emmeline B. Wells.
October, 1904.


THE ROSE.
She wears a rose within her hair,
Whose fragrance fills me with despair.
Why should a flower of sweet perfume
Recall old memories of this room,
And one who, long ago, did wear
A rose entwined in her fair hair.
It may be, as I breathe a prayer
Of blessing on that head so fair,
A saintly form of angelic light
Beholds me as I sit tonight
Dreaming of the faded years,
Until mine eyes are filled with tears,
Longing for her at evening’s close
And the perfume of the withered rose.
					—Dolores Watts.


[Column 1]
				FAITH.
	Faith is one of the vital elements essential
to the character of a Saint of God. The cul-
tivation of faith is a duty of our daily lives,
which should not be neglected. It underlies
all the great truths which the gospel teaches.
Without this principle we are blind, and
callous to all that will ennoble, exalt and
purify our hearts, our lives and our aspira-
tions. Especially is it necessary that the
mother be endowed with the precious gifts
and quality of faith; that she should possess
the pure spring of living faith in her soul,
that she may impart the germ to her off-
spring, and seek to promote its culture and
growth in all her teachings to the infant
mind.

[Column 2]
	Many are the simple lessons of faith in
God, and His dealings with mankind,
learned at the mother’s knee, that have gone
with the man out into the great, busy, active
world and given him a deep and lasting
conviction of the evidences of divinity. In
the most trying hour, when all seemed un-
certain and unreliable, the mother’s careful
teachings of the Savior and His blessed
promises, have come with refreshing light
as from heaven, and imparted courage that
could penetrate beyond the dark clouds and
reveal a ray, at least, of glowing light be-
yond.
	There can scarcely be too much said upon
this important subject. It is a topic for
conversation of which we never need tire,
there is so much to be learned of its appli-
cation to our lives and conditions here upon
the earth The instructions given upon
Faith in the Book of Doctrine and Cove-
nants should be carefully studied by our
young people; and the exercise of faith
should be a part of their spiritual education;
and mothers who may feel they are well ac-
quainted with this subject, would be amply
repaid by re-perusing those interesting
chapters upon Faith alluded to above. It
is true that our sisters have had many and
great, practical illustrations of the princi-
ples of faith in their past experiences in this
Church; and it is very edifying to hear re-
hearsed some of these striking instances
of the sublimity of faith, given to the
Saints when passing through deep trials
and serious afflictions. How much darker
and drearier and more desolate still, would
the wearisome days of travel and pilgrim-
mage have been, through which our people
have passed, if they had not been rich in
that holy faith which lifts the human soul
above the clouds into the clearer atmosphere
of a higher altitude.
	Strength, courage and heroism are some
of the excellent fruits of this beautiful plant
of spiritual origin. It is sometimes urged
that “faith is not tangible,” and those de-
void of this quality often remark “we want
something more tangible than faith!”
Some of the most powerful elements oper-
ating in nature are not tangible, except as
applied to tangible substances, and yet how
wonderful are their forces when thus
brought to bear upon other objects. Just
so with faith; in itself intangible, yet most
potent when applied to truths, to circum-
stances and to the lives of individuals. Faith
cannot be measured. The great manifesta-
tions of the power of faith in healing the
sick are marvels and wonders to the unbe-
lieving, whose minds, lacking this attribute,
cannot comprehend mysteries of the unseen
which can only be understood by the spir-
itual sense.
	I am sure there are many instances of
the power of faith in the healing of the sick,
that have never been told to our children,
that would promote the growth of faith
were they known. I will relate a very re-
markable one to which I was an eye wit-
ness many years ago. A young lady about
eighteen years of age was thrown from a

[Column 3]
carriage and her knee badly injured: her
parents being in good circumstances took
her to several of the best physicians in that
part of the State where it occurred; it was
in Massachusetts, near the Connecticut
river. These doctors tried their skill, but
all failed to cure her and they decided she
must be a cripple for life and compelled to
walk with crutches. The Mormon Elders
came to that vicinity, the parents of the
young lady received and obeyed the Gospel.
They were anxious their daughter should
be baptized, believing firmly she would be
healed. After some time, for she was a
very aristocratic girl and did not like to
give up her position in the world, she gave
her consent to be baptized. It was a very
cold day, the brook was frozen solid, a hole
was cut in the ice, and one after another
went into the water, and by and by, the
lame girl with her crutches came down to
the water’s edge. The Elders baptized her,
she walked out of the water, whole, and
never had occasion to use her crutches after.
The fact of her being healed created quite
a sensation, especially among the doctors
who came from far and near to inquire by
what means it had been done. But none
could gainsay it.
	This is only one of thousands of mani-
festations of the power of healing.
	The children in Zion should seek after
mighty faith, for there are great works to
be accomplished by them. They have been
born in the holy priesthood and are heirs
to all the promises of the new and everlast-
ing covenant, and God is ready and willing
to pour out rich blessings upon them if they
will seek unto Him and keep His holy com-
mandments; and let us all remember, with-
out faith it is impossible to please God.
						AUNT EM.


QUINQUENNIAL REPORT.
	Of General Secretary of Relief Society.
	Brief review of the work of the National
Woman’s Relief Society from October,
1907, to October, 1912.
	During the past five years the great work
of the Relief Society has been going for-
ward with energy and earnestness, through
the willing and untiring efforts of the Gen-
eral, Stake, and Local officers and the mem-
bers themselves. Many events of impor-
tance have taken place and many changes
have been made.
	It is with feelings of pride that we record
the establishment of Relief Society head-
quarters in the Bishop’s Building, in Decem-
ber, 1909, and for the first time in its history
the General Society has rooms for the
transaction of its business.
	Since the acquirement of these headquar-
ters there have been several notable birthday
celebrations: On May 3, 1910, a party was
given by the General Board in honor of the
eighty-eighth birthday anniversary of Presi-
ident Bathsheba W. Smith, in appreciation
of her life long labors, both in the Temple
and in the Relief Society. The late Presi-
dent John Henry Smith acted as master of


[Column 1]
ceremonies. Sister Smith, in her beautiful
white home-made silk dress, very graciously
received the guests.
	On February 29, 1912, the eighty-fourth
birthday anniversary of President Emmeline
B. Wells was fittingly celebrated by the
General Board. One of the chief features
of the occasion was the conferring of the
honorary degree of Doctor of Literature by
the Brigham Young University of Provo
through its president, Joseph F. Smith, upon
President Wells, who received this very un-
usual honor in the sweet and modest man-
ner so characteristic of her. Many glowing
tributes were paid to “Aunt Em,” and the
occasion was one to be long remembered.
	It is with feelings of sorrow and rever-
ence that we record the death of our late
beloved president, Sister Bathsheba W. 
Smith, which occurred Tuesday morning,
September 20, 1910. As President Wells
says in a tribute, “Her life was full to the
brim of usefulness in the Master’s service.
Everywhere she went she scattered bless-
ings, and her life was one of peace.” Her
unceasing efforts in the cause of righteous-
ness, her gentleness and unselfishness
should be an inspiration and example to
us all.
	On March 12, 1909, Sister Annie Taylor
Hyde, First Counselor to Sister Smith,
pased peacefully away. She had held posi-
tions of trust and responsibility in our or-
ganization, which she always filled with
honor. She had journeyed far and wide in
the interest of the Relief Society.
	Sister Rebecca E. Mantle Little, another
member of the General Board, passed to the
beyond May 29, 1909. While Sister Little
had been a member but a short time, by her 
excellent work she had made her influence
felt.
	March 3, 1912, Sister Emma S. Wood-
ruff passed away. She was wife of the late
President Wilford Woodruff, and had been
a valiant member of the Board from the
beginning.
	Several stake officers, who have done ex-
cellent, faithful work, have also passed
away, but they still live in the hearts of their
co-workers.
	At the October conference, 1910, Sister
Emmeline B. Wells was sustained as Presi-
dent of the Relief Society of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints through-
out the world, with Sister Clarissa S. Wil-
liams as First Counselor and Sister Julina
L. Smith, Second Counselor.
	The storing of wheat has been a cause of
anxiety to almost every stake. On account
of the difficulties encountered, the First
Presidency and the Presiding Bishopric rec-
ommended that the grain owned by the
Relief Society be stored in elevators, built
for the care and storing of wheat, and which
were owned and operated by responsible
parties. In some stakes arrangements have
been made by which money is paid to the
Presiding Bishopric for wheat, and they de-
posit that amount of wheat at the elevator,
based on the current market price, which
method has been found beter than deposit-
ing wheat in local grist mills and far more
satisfactory than that of each Relief Society
building a separate granary. Letters of in-
structions in regard to the matter were sent
to each stake.
	During the past five years calls have been
made by the Presiding Bishopric for large
supplies of linen and material for the Dr.
Groves’ L. D. S. Hospital. The amount of

[Column 2]
money required for the purchase of these
supplies was apportioned, and the stakes re-
sponded liberally. The articles were cut out
and made by members of the Society freely
as a labor of love.
	In the beginning of the year 1912, the
First Presidency requested President Wells
to take up the matter of preparing Temple
clothing, with the idea that the General
Board prepare and keep on hand suitable
clothing for those going into the Temple,
and also for burial purposes. President
Wells appointed Counselor Julina L. Smith
chairman, she to appoint her own commit-
tee; and as a result there is on hand a supply
of beautiful clothing, which can be rented or
purchased at a reasonable price by those
presenting letters of recommendation from
their bishop and the President of the Relief
Society.
	Moral conditions in the larger cities have
rendered it necessary for the Board to take
steps along the line of protecting our young
people from existing evils. A committee
appointed by the President has been work-
ing, in connection with a committee from
other organizations, along these lines.
	The Relief Society is always ready and
willing to respond to calls for the alleviation
of suffering and distress. A beautiful ex-
ample of this was the general and cheerful
response made to the call for assistance for
the Chinese and the Mississipi flood suffer-
ers. Probably over one-half of the amount
that was raised by the whole state of Utah
was contributed by the Relief Society.
	The subject of sanitation and preventive
measures in sickness is causing agitation in 
the world generally, and efforts are being
made to interest the members of the Relief
Society in this important subject. Circulars
containing valubale information have been
sent out by the Board of Health, through 
the General Board, to the various stakes,
with the hope that it will be a great assist-
ance in the prevention of disease.
	One of the important events that have
happened during the past year is the plac-
ing of an article, written by President Em-
meline B. Wells, containing a brief history
of the Relief Society, also portraits of the
five presidents of the Relief Society, with a
sketch of the life of each president, in Ap-
pleton’s American Biographical Cyclopedia.
The articles are beautifully written by Presi-
dent Wells, and reflect credit upon the or-
ganization, and will present the work of the
Relief Society in a proper light before the
world.
	The work of our great organization is
constantly progressing. Many stakes have
distinctive features which have been of ben-
efit to them. An example of what can be
done by individual wards in various stakes
of Zion is the effort that has been made in
raising funds for special purposes by the
collection of “Sunday eggs.” Large amounts
have been raised in this manner for build-
ing houses and for various other purposes.
	During the past five years an effort has
been made to interest the Relief Society in
genealogical and Temple work. In some
stakes geenalogical classes have been or-
ganized, and other stakes are anticipating
having these classes introduced; and a much
greater interest is being taken in this and
in Temple work.
	Among the important events is the build-
ing of Relief Society halls, Relief Society
rooms in meeting houses, assisting in the

[Column 3]
building of ward meeting houses and
amusement halls, purchasing sacrament ser-
vices, musical instruments, linen, etc. Many
yards of carpet and thousands of quilts have
been contributed.
	From reports received and from visits
made it is seen that the officers and mem-
bers are working in harmony for the ad-
vancement of the cause of the Relief So-
ciety.
		OLIVE D. CHRISTENSEN,
						Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The semi-annual conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Tabernacle, Thurs-
day, Oct. 3, 1912, with President Emmeline
B. Wells presiding.
	The singing during the conference was
furnished by the Relief Society choir of
Granite stake.
MORNING SESSION.
	Hymn, “Hail to the brightness of Zion’s
glad morning;” prayer by Mrs. Julia P. M.
Farnsworth; singing, “Scatter Sunshine.”
Loving and congratulatory address of wel-
come by President Emmeline B. Wells; elo-
quent and interesting response by Mrs.
Mary J. R. West; duet, “Truth Reflects
Upon the Senses,” Mrs. Green and Mrs.
Curtis.
	Reports of the Relief Society of the fol-
lowing stakes were given as follows: Ogden
stake, by Mrs. Sarah M. Taylor; Sevier
stake, by Mrs. Christina Sorensen; Deseret
stake, by Mrs. Mary M. Lyman.
	Counselor Julina L. Smith spoke in ap-
preciation of the work done by the Relief
Society. When the Prophet Joseph Smith
organized the Relief Society, she said, he
could see further than we can see today.
Zion is growing and the Relief Society is
prospering, and the work will continue to
grow, Mrs. Smith urged the young girls to
dress modestly, as becoming to Latter-day
Saints; also spoke of arrangements having
been made for the making and supplying of
suitable clothing for the dead.
	Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox in an address
said in part:
	“It is a great blessing and privilege to be
living today—the day of fulfillment of
prophecy and of the dreams of great inven-
tors and discoverers. The present time is
the most glorious ever upon the earth. With-
out the work of the inspired discoverers and
inventors we could not today be enjoying
the blesings we now have. If they had not
had their great dreams and had they not
been inspired to work them out, think of the
advantages we should have been deprived
of today. Columbus was inspired to make
the sacrifices he did in discovering the
western country—the revolutionary fathers
and the soldiers suffered to make possible
the liberty of this beautiful land. We reap
the benefits and sacrifices of all of this.”
	Mrs. Wilcox told of the attention now be-
ing given to the subjects of health and of
the work being done by the state board of
health. She recalled that a prominent man
once said that he believed the time would
come when a normal child, born of normal
parents, would consider it a reproach to be
in ill health, and it seems that efforts are
now being made to bring about the fulfill-
ment of that condition. The Bible, she
said, “tells us that greater things hath no


[Column 1]
man done than this that he giveth his life
for his friend.”
	Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune gave a report
of the Relief Society in New York, and the
work it is doing.
	The benediction was pronounced by Mrs.
Emily S. Richards.
	The afternoon session was opened by the
singing of “Zion prospers, all is well,” Dr.
Romania B. Penrose offered the prayer.
	President Emmeline B. Wells spoke of
the blessings that had been given to the
daughters of Zion. She advised all to do
their work, in whatever line it should be, to
the best of their ability, and to follow the
good examples of those who had spent their
lives in doing good for others.
	An address on “Education of Women,”
was given by Mrs. Sarah M. Stewart, who
said “Froebel says that the education of the
child begins with the grandparents. We ap- 
peal to the parents that the progress of hu-
manity may go on. A few years ago women
did not have the educational privileges that
men had; not until about the time of the
Prophet Joseph Smith did they receive any
kind of recognition. They first demanded
education and claimed the fact that the men-
tal powers of women are equal to men.
	“The highest and noblest ambition of a
woman should be to be queen of the home
and the mother of noble children. Walt
Whitman says, ‘It is great to be a man, but
it is greater to be the mother of men.’
	“Women reach their highest, noblest, and
best as wives and mothers, as homekeepers.
The home today, seems to be neglected. It
is a place where people eat and sleep, but as
a home it is far from ideal. The home
should be the center of all that is good, the
center from which radiates the intelligence
and glory of the world. The example of
parents will influence the lives of their chil-
dren for good or otherwise. The highest ed-
ucation is the education for parenthood. In
the past it was thought sufficient if the
mother was good and pure, but now it is
demanded that there be a perfect father-
hood. Idealize the home.”
	“Mrs. Stewart made a plea for the educa-
tion of girls that would fit them to be good
wives and mothers, that they might be pre- 
pared to put into their homes the ideal moth-
erhood. The best of our lives she said
should be put into our homes, into our work,
and that no stone should be left unturned to
make our homes the best of homes.
	Reports of the Relief Societies in the fol-
lowing stakes were given; Millard stake,
by Mrs. Adeline Smith; Jordan stake, by
Mrs Hilda A. Larsen; Salt Lake stake, by 
Mrs. Harriet B. Harker; St. Joseph stake,
by Mrs. Sarah A. Layton.
	“Count your many blessings,” was sung
by the choir.
	Counselor Clarissa S. Williams said in
part: ‘I am grateful that I am descended
from honest and true men and women, who
have laid down their lives for the truth for
which they stood. As Latter-day Saints our
lives are always on the altar. At any time
we are on hand to make the sacrifice, if it 
becomes necessary. The labors of the women
of the Church are labors of sacrifice. Sac-
rifice brings forth the blessings of heaven.
It is the doing for others which brings hap-
piness, joy, and consolation.”
	Mrs. Williams told of the ravages by dis-
ease in some communities and urged the
members of the Relief Society to do all in

[Column 2]
their power to keep away sickness by pro-
curing a pure water suply and freeing their
premises from anything that would have a
tendency to breed disease.
	Dr. Jane Skolfield said; “If we wish im-
proved conditions in sanitary and civic
affairs, the women must become interested,
because this work appeals more to them than
to men. In the past, the work that has been
done along the lines of sanitation, protecting
food suply, pure water, etc., has been done
largely by women. Dr. Skolfield urged the
women to band themselves together for the
bettering of sanitary and civic conditions,
and to use their right as enfranchised citi-
zens to help in these matters.
	The benediction was pronounced by Mrs.
Susa Young Gates, and the conference was
adjourned for six months.
			OLIVE D. CHRISTENSEN, 
							Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE MOTHERS' PARADISE.
	The subject of our thoughts offers oppor-
tunity for many and varied opinions. A
careful study of children only convinces one
most thoroughly that children can not be
brought up, either by books or any one set
of rules. Circumstances of parents, family
traditions, traits, and most of all—child
character itself—shows that in the rearing
of a child, that child itself being the prime
factor, must necessarily be the principal
study. The hope and the faith of the
woman's heart while anticipating mother-
hood, and the delight and pleasure mingled
with good sense and wisdom in the early
care of the little one, the birth, the first
preparations regarding the care, the cloth-
ing and feeding of this precious gift, and
the first few years training of the little child,
is this time not indeed the mother's para-
dise; the development of a little life, God
given for us to teach and train.
	One of the sweetest things in all the
world is the prayer of a little child; no
music sweeter than his little voice, no pic-
ture more beautiful than a baby at his
mother's knee lisping his first little prayer.
Little folks, like grown folks, do not all
feel the same; some are naturally more spir-
itual than others, but all can be taught when
quite young a few simple words of prayer
and made to feel the occasion to be a solemn
moment. Children are very inquisitive and
frequently very skeptical, about sacred mat-
ters, and some times are known to ask ques-
tions about the Lord and heaven which their
parents are puzzled how to answer, not be-
cause they do not themselves know, but be-
cause it is not always easy or wise to ex-
plain to a child matters of that kind, and a
parent should strive to avoid too much ar-
gument about spiritual matters, while
always keeping within the child's heart a
reverence for the Lord and perfect faith
and trust in Him. Children generally are
full of faith, their trust in the Lord is im-
plicit and even so does the child have faith
in and trust his mother. How then, more
than anyone, should she strive never to de-
ceive her child and never to break a prom-
ise. It is far better not to make promises to
a child unless you surely can fulfill them,
for if failing one is likely to lose his confi-
dence and trust. In the development of a
child the mother has always these two
greatest assistants—love and nature—one

[Column 2]
the incentive, the other the guide, and if she
uses them wisely, even though extravagant-
ly, she is sure of success. In the moral de-
velopment of a child the greatest watch and
care is necessary; surely remember the wise
saying, "As the twig is bent the tree is in-
clined," and parents should guard carefully
themselves in their actions and words to-
wards a child. If a little one happens to be
mischievous or inclines to little rebellious
acts, mothers frequently resort to correcting
those faults by threats of or whippings for
punishment and the fear often prompts the
child to a falsehood in order to avoid the
promised punishment. Very small children,
except in rare instances, can not be rea-
soned with, but by some kind reproof can
be taught the difference between good and
evil and the best way to keep a child from
mischief or evil doing, just as with older
people, is to give him somtehing to do. It
is surprising how much a little child can
help his mother and how much it pleases
him. While the mother is necessarily em-
ployed in her household duties she can have
her little folks around her and be singing
nursery songs with them or telling them
little stories or repeating little verses, and
it is wonderful how readily the little folks
learn to repeat the same stories and also
learn the moral of them. The German
mother, when she sees her baby with a
match or sharp instrument, says, "Ah
Gabeln, messer, scherrer, licht, Gibt man
kleinen kinder nicht," which means in Eng-
lish, "forks, knives, scissors, or light, no
one must allow little children to have." If
mothers don't know any beautiful kinder-
garten songs, they ought if possible to learn
them for the children's sake and you would
not believe how much amusement and even
philosophy there is in the rhymes of Mother
Goose. Oh, but the busy mother says we
haven't time. Ah, there you are entirely
wrong. The early lessons of childhood can
easily be given during your morning work.
It lightens the work to have the children
with you. If you are washing the break-
fast dishes, perhaps some of them are dec-
orated with flowers and then a lesson in
color and form can be learned. The names
of the different dishes and the shape and
use may be talked about if they are round
or square, or oval, if they are china, or
glass, silver or tin, and so it is in every
occupation in the home, and who knows
but that perhaps in thus using her thinking
faculties, with her work, the mother learns
something as well. There are mothers with
little tots, too young yet for school, who
take time every morning to take them to a
room alone, and sing with them one or two
little hymns and repeat with them the Lord's
prayer, then pray a morning prayer of her
own. Do you think that mother loses any
moments from her work? No, indeed, she
gains them, for her work is lighter with the
children's co-operation and the kind spirit
that must be in such a home. The molding
of the character of a little child is the great-
est of all work.
A. W. C.


Robert Barr, the Scottish novelist, died
of heart failure October 22. He was as
well known in America as in England, hav-
ing at one time been connected with the
Detroit Free Press. His novels have al-
ways been among the best sellers.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

Woman's Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop's
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, U[-]ah
[-]s second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH - OCTOBER, 1912


THE GENERAL CONFERENCE. 
	Perhaps in the history of the Church there 
has never been a more interesting confer-
ence than the one held this month, October,
1912.
	All the general quorums of the Priest-
hood full and splendidly represented. There 
were no vacancies to fill and the spirit of the 
conference was indeed inspiring and uplift-
ing. President Joseph F. Smith presided
at all the sessions and the people certainly 
felt and realized his power and authority.


The atendance was very large indeed. In
fact the Tabernacle which at one time
seemed too large for anything is now not
nearly large enough to hold the expectant,
eager people who throng to hear the counsel
and advice of their great leaders. President
Smith’s admonitions to the women who hold
office and preside over the different auxil-
iary organizations, namely, the Relief So-
ciety, the Y. L. M. I. A., and the Primary
should be emphasized through these col-
umns, as they have already been at the dif-
ferent officers’ meetings in the form of reso-
lutions.
	The following is, in part, what he said,
and we urge all the sisters to take heed and
not only listen to the voice of counsel but at-
tend to these things in their own lives and
in their teaching to others. President Smith’s
remarks:
	President Joseph F. Smith closed the con-
ference. He asked that all set their faces
like flint against the spirit of apostacy, dark-
ness, violation of the Sabbath, and irrever-
ence for the other important doctrines of
the Church, making an earnest appeal to all,
to hold sacred every human and divine
right.
	Against immoral dressing among the
young women of the Church President
Smith made the strongest plea. He request-
ed that ward bishops, officers of the Relief
Society, of the Y. L. M. I. A., and of the
Primary association use every means of per-
suasion to prevent it, and if members of the
different organizations insisted, and would
not discontinue to dress in a way that ex-
poses portions of the body to the gaze, he
said, then they should be disqualified as
members, and associates, and be deprived of
their places in the Church. Unless the
women and the girls in the Church can
clothe themselves decently, President Smith
declared, they should not be tolerated as a
part of the Church.
	Card playing President Smith also brand-
ed as one of the intolerable things among
the members of the Church and enjoined
all officials and members to exert their in-
fluence against that practice.
	The conference was in every respect most
successful and the people must surely feel
satisfied with the wisdom and counsel there
manifested. These great congregations of
the Saints, listenig to the eloquence of the
Priesthood and the wonderful music of the
large choir and great organ produce such
an exultant feeling of joy and thankfulness
in the heart for the knowledge and blessing
of the Gospel of Christ as to buoy one up
for life’s battles with renewed strength and
fortitude.


[Column 1]
	WOMEN RECOGNIZED.
	One interesting feature of the political
situation this year is the sudden popularity
of the suffrage cause. While heretofore
men in public life have at least not been
very ardent on this subject, we find this year
that great force is being put forward by all
parties to obtain the suffrage vote. The
women of the National Suffrage Associa-
tion have declared themselves for Colonel
Roosevelt and the Progressive party, but
that does not follow that the women in the
suffrage states are in any way pledged to
any party, on the contrary, the women claim
equal privilege with men and ally them-
selves with the party of their choice. It is
true the platform of the Progressives prom-
ises many of the reforms the women have
long labored to obtain and hold out alluring
offers for the suffrage vote, yet it is also

[Column 2]
equally true that Colonel Roosevelt has not
been until this campaign a very ardent sup-
porter of the suffrage cause, either in his
speeches or writings. His praise of
Jane Addams is unbounded, and so is
ours, and that of all people who under-
stand her splendid work, but in praise of
these reform workers of today let us not
forget nor underrate the work of those
brave pioneer women who by their force of
character, their undaunted faith in their
work and in their cause, threw down the
barriers and made it possible for women to-
day to accomplish great things. Susan B.
Anthony, Lucretia Mott, Elizabeth Cady
Stanton, and others were earnest and ag-
gressive in their fight for equal rights. They
endured contumely and oppression, ridicule
and persecution, but valiantly and fearlessly
they fought their way along and lived at
least long enough to see a steady increase in
their ranks and victory ahead.
	There was always an ardent desire among
the suffrage workers for a constitutional 
amendment giving the suffrage to all the
women at once, but while that has been de-
ferred, the states one by one are falling into
line and who knows but what this present
condition in the political field will bring
about the result the women so long have
tried to obtain.
	In all the suffrage states the different
political parties this year have women can-
didates on their tickets for state and county
offices. In our own state there are eleven
women thus recognized. The Democratic
party have two names for the lower house
of the legislature, Mrs. Alice M. Horne and
Mrs. Isabelle Kenner. The Progressive
party have two lady Presidential electors,
Mrs. W. H. De Wolfe and Mrs. C. E. Coul-
ter, and two representatives, Mrs. W. H.
Wilkensen and Mrs. Lavina Livingston.
	The Republican party have five women
candidates, four for the lower house, Dr.
Jane Skolfield, Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon,
Mrs. Anna H. King and Mrs. Edith E.
Read, while for Presidential elector they
have selected Mrs. Margaret Zane Wichter.
Mrs. Witcher claims the distinction of being
the first woman in the United States to re- 
ceive this honor.
	It is now generally conceded that wom-
an’s influence in the different lines of reform
and philanthropic work has become so pow-
erful that it needs must be recognized. In
all the states the women have had legislative
committees to work with the law-makers
for such laws that would benefit the people,
especially the working girl, the mother and
the child, and now with women not only to
lobby but to help make the laws there is
certainly cause for congratulation and we
hope this is only the bigninnig of the good
work.


[Column 1]
		DESULTORY THOUGHTS.
	The age in which we of today are living
is not only eventful but interesting and pro-
gressive. The discoveries and inventions
that have added so materially to the interest
of all mankind in several directions, useful
as well as uplifting in the various depart-
ments of life itself, and in the occupations
that men and women pursue and the benefits
that accrue to the world at large by means
of all these things, make for a higher
and a more complete existence even if more
complex. Therefore we can with the ut-
most assurance say that this world of ours
and this age, in which the present genera-
tion is taking part is the greatest yet known
on this earth.
	It is the day the prophets of old looked
forward to and prophesied concerning what
would come to pass.
	It is well for those who are taking part in
the labors and in the events now transpiring
that they consider their privileges and live
up to them and act wisely and judiciously in
all that they do and in that which trans-
pires around them.
	We are none of us living for ourselves
alone, not even for our own families or
kindred. We are a part of the great whole,
the great world and the generation of to-
day.
	To the Latter-day Saint men and women
this is the most auspicious time in the his-
tory of mankind. The Priesthood has been
restored after generations of darkness, su-
perstition and bigotry, and a new era of light
and freedom has dawned and with all this
has come greater enlightenment to all the
inhabitants of the earth. The key of knowl-
edge has been turned and, accompanied by
power and blessings from on high, has
spread far and wide and will eventually
cover the whole earth.
	That prophecy is now coming to pass
regarding the last days is apparent in the
fact the Lord said He would bring to pass
“a marvelous work and a wonder.” Cer-
tainly it cannot be gainsaid.
	Not only in all material things but also in
that which may be termed spiritual, is the
work a wonderful one: the building of
many Temples in which men may offici-
ate in the order of the Holy Priest-
hood for the living and for the gener-
ations passed away who had not this great
privilege and without whom families could
not be made perfect in the hereafter. Even

[Column 2]
poets, who are also in a certain sense proph-
etic if not prophets, have been wrought up-
on concerning this wondrous work for the
dead.
	Wordsworth, one of the great poets of
England, as early as 1825, in his Ode on
Imagination, has these remarkable lines:
“Be it not unordained that solemn rights,
Within the circuit of those gothic walls
Shall be performed at pregnant intervals;
Commemoration holy that unites
The living generation with the dead.”
	In view of the greatness of the day in
which we are now living it certainly be-
hooves those who are taking part to appre-
ciate the blessings of the age. It is a
solemn duty to remember the great men
and women who have brought about
the liberty vouchsafed to this nation and
to emulate the best examples of those who
have given by their sublime lives and acts
that priceless freedom which we so enjoy
in this western land and to hold sacred
the privileges of religious liberty for the
land dedicated thereto.
	It is the privilege as well as the duty of
every one to maintain the government of
the country and to build up the waste places
and make them habitable and desirable, so
the nations afar off will come to the house
of the Lord in the tops of the mountains
as has been prophesied.
	Therefore, we repeat that this is the
greatest age of the world and those who
are young will see the brilliant future which
is to surpass in all that is glorious and
desirable all other ages of the world.
	The sacred music that will yet be given
in the holy Temples of the Lord, the an- 
thems and hymns, and the mighty work of
salvation which is to be performed—who is
to do this? Those who are young today and
those who are yet unborn must necessarily
perform this great undertaking—therefore
there should be no waste of energy in that
which is vain and worthless, but careful
preparation in wisdom to educate the mind
and the heart, that therein may be a willing-
ness to use the gifts of the higher nature
to excel in that which will tend to glorify
Zion and extend and make beautiful its bor-
ders; and in the future advancement of the
age all may take part who are willing to
be obedient to the gospel, and there will be
ample room for all to unite in the great
work of making an Eden on earth accord-
ing to the prophecies of old and of the day
in which we live.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.
	In the suffrage states the child labor law
prohibits the employment of children in cer-
tain occupations, fixes age limits for em-
ployment, prescribes severe penalties, re-
quires registration of all children employed
and also certificates from school authorities.
	A determined effort will be made by the
Era Club of New Orleans at its next session
to force the Medical College of Tulane Uni-
versity, through the aid of the courts, to ac-
cept women applicants on the same terms
as men. Paul Tulane’s will reads that the
college shall be given over to members of
the white race, and he did not make any dis-
tinction of sex, but women have always
been refused admission to the institution.


GREAT BODIES MEET. 
	This month three great congresses take 
place in Germany, each important to the 
suffrage cause.  The National Council of 
Women of Germany meets in October, and 
one of the subjects to be discussed is “The 
Participation of Women in Politics.” Later 
in the month the German Woman Suffrage 
Association will hold an executive meeting, 
when the officers of ten national and twelve
provincial associations will outline a plan of 
work. The National Convention of the 
Liberal party has also been set for October, 
and the enfranchisement of women is one of 
the important topics to be considered.


[Column 1]
		CORRESPONDENCE.
	At present there are a number of young
women working in the missionary field, full
of zeal in their labors and with joy in their
hearts for the blessed privilege of bearing
the glad tidings to the people of the world,
as their brothers have been permitted to do
these many years past. The following let- 
ter and poem was written from one of these
girl missionaries for the occasion of her
great-grandmother’s ninetieth birthday an-
niversary, and as it breathes somewhat of
the freshness and devotion of youth’s en-
thusiasm, we have accepted it for publica-
tion.—Ed. 
			Kansas City, Sept. 25, 1912.
My Own Dear Grandma: 
	Please accept these few lines—hurriedly 
written—as my contribution for your birth-
day. 
	May you have many happy returns of the
day—may this birthday be the crowning
happiness of your life, thus far.
	I am so happy, grandma, I couldn’t write
anything very sad. And so busy I couldn’t
find much time to think.
	I am so thankful to be one of the spirits
permitted to come through your lineage
and I love you.
	I am sending you several hundred bar-
rels of love, C. O. D. Perhaps they will
not get there for a year, so take good care
of yourself, and I wil deliver them next
year in person.
	Once more wishing you a happy, happy
time, I must say good-bye. God bless my
dear little grandmother.
	Your far away loving (great grand)
child, 
			LOUISA T. BARKDULL. 

		TO GRANDMA.
This world is such a grand old place;
	I love this life: with all its pain;
To me it is a Paradise,
	For those who truly love, live not in vain.

So many sons and daughters of thy race
	Are thanksful for their goodly parentage;
Your name they speak with pride and ten-
		derness,
	And praise you for their goodly heritage.

We bow our heads in reverence,
	Tears flood our eyes—we bend a knee,
Our souls breathe forth a grateful prayer,
	For thee we hold in sweetest memory.

[Column 2]
With him to whom you pledged your life
	In the dearest joy of expectant youth,
Left home and friends and kindred ties
	In answer to the call of truth.

Thou noble soul—that years have crowned
	With snowy locks and furrowed brow,
Whose heart is ever as young and warm
As your tender smile is pleasing now.

Thine eyes, through which the spirit gleams,
	Have ever looked to heaven for aid
To find the straight and narrow path,
	Asisgned before this world was made!

Those lips that never once complained
	Because “thy cross” was hard to bear,
Have taught so many other lips
	To say “the Grace,” and offer prayer.

The whispering of the “still small voice”
	That to thine ears so often come,
Has been the music of thy life
	In a melody-like, “Home, sweet Home!”

Tho’ Babies claimed your tender care,
	You brought them from your native land;
You braved the mighty billows’ depths
	And placed all care in God’s own hand.

You spanned the country’s desert plains,
	Step by step, with other braves;
Our country was thus measured then,
	The distance marked by groans and graves!

You climbed the mountains with the rest,
	“A Pioneer” in very deed!
And lived those terrifying scenes
	That no one cares to see or read!

But, grandma, vou nobly lived your part,
	Your children have proved to be "Gifts from
		God!”
And now your children’s children’s children
	Are following in the steps you trod!

A “Mother”—the holiest word we know—
	A “Latter-day Saint” she is known;
A ‘Pioneer,” too’ and a truer or better
	Or a braver one you will never see!

 Christ said: “My sheep shall know my voice;”
	You knew and to the flock you came.
And now your children are in the world
	Teaching the Truth in the Savior’s name!

They are thankful to have the chance to go,
	To deliver the gospel and help repay,
The Elder who left his home and all
	To show you the grand eternal way!

We love you, grandma, dear—we do!
	We want you to live a hundred years!
We need you to teach us how to be true,
	How to smile away sorrow and bitter tears.

And when we have passed from this sweet,
		short life,
	To that other home, in the “land of the
		Blest,”
We want you to welcome us—every one—
	And say: “Bless you dear, you have done
		your best!”'


NOTICE.
	While expecting to make the change in
the form of the EXPONENT to a magazine
and preparing for the same, a number of
articles about the March Annual were re-
ceived which we had hoped to be able to
publish, but as our readers are aware there
was no issue of the paper from May until
the September number, when this present
volume begins, the hope of the magazine be-
ing deferred for the present; and it would
be out of place to publish at this late day
these notices. However, we thank the sis-
ters for sending them and hope in the regu-
larity of the paper henceforth to be able to
publish these interesting items in the season
thereof.
	We would again insist that all notices,
obituaries, and minutes of conferences, par-
ties, etc., sent for publication be written on
one side of the paper only, as it is impossi-
ble for the printer to set his copy correctly,
unless properly prepared


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HIS HANDICAP.
He wooed her when they both were poor,
	’twas then he won her, too;
She cheered him when the days were drear,
	and toiled to help him through;
She taught him things from books that he had
	failed to learn in youth,
She got him to avoid the use of words that
	were uncouth:
She took her jewel in the rough, she polished
	day by day,
And with a woman’s patience [-]round the
	worthless parts away.
She turned him from a stupid clown to one
	whose mein was proud,
She planted in his heart the wish to rise above
	the crowd;
She planned the things he undertook, she
	urged him on to try,
She gave him confidence to look for splendid
	things and high;
She bore the children that he loved and toiled
	for them and him,
And often knelt beside her bed with aching
	eyes and dim.
She cheered him when the days were dark, and
	when the skies were bright
She saw him rise above the crowd and reach
	a noble height;
Her brow is marred by many a line; she’s bent
	and wan and old.
He has a bearing that is fine, a form of noble
	mold;
And people say: “Poor man, alas! He’s grown
	beyond his wife;
How sad that such a load should be attached
	to him for life!”
		—From the Chicago Times-Herald.


SUGGESTIVE PLAN FOR BETTERMENT
				WORK.
1. Organization:
(a) A Central Betterment Committee—
	composed of six members, three from
	the Relief Society and three from the
	Y. L. M. I. A., appointed by the
	Presidents of the two General
	Boards.
(b) A Stake Betterment Committee—
	composed of four members, selected
	by the Stake Presidents of the two
	organizations and appointed by the
	Stake Priesthood President.
(c) Ward Missionaries—one or two se-
	lected by the Stake Committee, the
	Bishop and Presidents of the two
	local organizations.
2. The Work—Preventive:
Aims—To bring indifferent parents and
	their children into the organizations
	that will bring the spirit of the Gos-
	pel into their hearts and homes.
		To impress parents with the sacred
	duties and responsibilities of parent-
	hood.
		To encourage the downcast, stim-
	ulate the indifferent and reclaim the
	wayward.
3. Qualifications of the Workers:
	The Spirit of the Work—Wisdom—
	Spirituality — Charity — Patience —
	Love—Tact.
4. Duties of Missionaries:
	Keep in close touch with the Relief
	Society and Y. L. M. I. A. Visit
	homes. Hold neighborhood meet-
	ings, and labor unceasingly with
	great love, and much patience for
	the betterment of the home and its
	inmates.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		LIBERTY STAKE.
	Semi-annual conference of Liberty stake
Relief Society convened in Ninth ward
meeting house July 26 at 10 a. m. and 2
p. m., President Anna S. Musser presiding.
At the morning session we had with us
General President Emmeline B. Wells,
Sarah J. Cannon of the General Board, and
C. W. Symons of Liberty stake High Coun-
cil. After opening exercises and address of
welcome by President Musser, the names
of the General Board, also of the stake
board, were unanimously sustained. The
statistical and financial report for 1911 was
read and accepted. After a solo by Sister
Eva James, the First, Second, Third, Eighth
and Ninth wards were favorably reported,
showing them to be in the line of their duty.
Leah Rigby and Dorothy Weiler favored
us with a duet. Sister Sarah J. Cannon
urged all to subscribe for the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT; said the suggestions in the EX-
PONENT would be of great benefit to the
societies, encouraged all to be humble and
prayerful and do our best at all times.
General President Emmeline B. Wells re-
lated incidents encountered in her numerous
travels and spoke of reports received from
foreign branches; said she had received
more benefit from Relief Society work than
from any other source. Elder C. W. Sy-
mons spoke for a few moments on the ob-
servance of the Sabbath and visiting the
sick and aged. After closing exercises, ad-
journed until 2 o’clock. Lunch was served
to all present during the noon recess.
	Conference reconvened at 2 o’clock with
President Emmeline B. Wells, Sarah J.
Cannon and Julia P. M. Farnsworth of the
General Board, Elders C. W. Symons and
T. H. Wooley of Liberty stake High Coun-
cil and all of stake board on the stand.
After opening exercises and address of wel-
come by Counselor Zurviah G. Eardley, Sis-
ter Julia P. M. Farnsworth delivered a lec-
ture on “Home, Its Necessities and Envi-
ronments,” which was timely and listened to
with interest. A solo entitled. “Trusting,”
was rendered by Sister Eva James. Presi-
dent Emmeline B. Wells said the seeds of
love, wisdom and kindness were very
marked in the Relief Society; testified of the
Prophet Joseph and his divine mission;
realized and could see the development and
the good which would be accomplished by
this organization; encouraged us in doing
good and keeping the commandments of
God, and gave us many other instructions.
Sister Maud Kenner rendered a solo. Sister
Sarah J. Cannon felt that this is a time of
progression, and we want to go on to per-
fection, especially in the work that we were
sent here to do; spoke of taking care of
wheat and storing for times of emergency;
exhorted all to remain faithful to the end.
President Musser made a few closing re-
marks, thanking all who had helped to make
our conference a success. After the solo,
“God Be with Us Till We Meet Again,” by
Sister Eva James, and benediction by Sister
Sarah Swift, adjourned for six months.
				LIZZIE ROBBINS, Sec.

			NEBO STAKE.
	Relief Society conference held June 28,
1912, at Payson. After the opening exer-
cises Sister Martha S. Kapple made re-
marks concerning the good work the sisters

[Column 2]
of the Relief Society, were doing: also gave
the statistical and financial report of the
stake for 1911. President Eliza J. Dixon
said she felt very proud of the Nebo stake
Relief Society; all the sisters were always
so willing to help in every way; was very
much pleased to have President Emmeline
B. Wells and Sister Alice Merrill Horne
with us, addressed the conference in a very
pleasing manner. Sister Martha Simons ad-
dressed the sisters, said she had been a mem-
ber of the Church for 75 years and was very
pleased to be able to say a few words to the
sisters of the Relief Society. Sister Wells
next addressed the sisters of the conference,
made excellent remarks on charity; spoke
of the early organization of the Relief So-
ciety and the work the sisters were doing;
said now there were 50 organizations of the
Relief Society in Great Britain and there
were organizations throughout the world,
so that the sun never sets on the Relief So-
ciety organizations; 40,000 or 45,000 women
were engaged in this great work founded
by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Sister M. A.
Hardy made remarks in regard to WOMAN’S
EXPONENT; advised sisters to take this
paper. Recitation, Lucile Johnson, “In the
Signal Box.” After singing and prayer ad-
journed until 1:30 p. m.
	Conference reconvened at 1:30 p. m.
After opening exercises the conference was
addressed by Jonathan S. Page of Nebo
stake, who made many encouraging remarks
to the sisters in regard to Relief Society
work. Song by Sister Hattie S. Wride,
“Dear to the Heart of the Shepherd.” Sis-
ter Emmeline B. Wells addressed the con-
ference; felt pleased to be able to speak
to the sisters; said the Relief Society was
the greatest organization of women in the
world; would like to have all the societies
have a library; also when any work is done
to do it all in unison; also related her early
experience in the Church and how she be-
came acquainted with the Prophet Joseph
Smith. Sister Alice Merrill Horen made
some remarks in regard to beautifying our
homes. Sister Eliza J. Dixon asked if there
were any in the audience who had ever seen
the Prophet Joseph Smith and there were
four who stood up. Sister Amy Hancock
was proud to know that she had seen the
Prophet, and made very interesting remarks
in regard to her early experiences in the
Church. Bishop Loveless made a few re-
marks and highly complimented the Relief
Society sisters in their noble work. Presi-
dent Hyrum Lemmon explained how the
Relief Society was organized. Recitation,
Sister Alice Bale, “The Sale.” After clos-
ing remarks by Sister Eliza Dixon confer-
ence adjourned for three months. Singing
of doxology, and prayer by Francis M.
Elmer.
			MALAD STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of Malad
stake, held June 30, 1912, convened in the
stake building according to appointment
with President Eliza A. Hall presiding. We
were honored with a visit from General
President E. B. Wells and Sister McClelland
from Salt Lake City; President Wm. H.
Richards, Wm. H. Gibbs and L. D. Jones of
the stake presidency, members of the high
council, bishops of wards, presidents of the
various wards of Relief Society, etc. Meet-
ing opened by singing “Our Mountain
Home So Dear.” Prayer was offered by


[Column 1]
Bishop John F. Conley of Portage. The
congregation sang “Come, Come, Ye
Saints.” Minutes of last conference read
and approved. President Eliza A. Hall
made opening remarks, bidding all a hearty
welcome to our meeting. Reports were
given by Malad, Holbrook and Pleasant
View wards, all in unity and enjoying the
Relief Society work. A recitation was ren-
dered by Sister Maud Chidester entitled,
“A Mother’s Only Son.” President E. B.
Wells was delighted to be in attendance at
the Malad Relief Society conference; spoke
of the reports against the Latter-day Saints
by those not of our faith; there never was a
greater prophet than Joseph Smith; spoke
on the wheat question and care of the grain
belonging to the Relief Society; obedience,
love, and charity were some of the subjects
spoken on by our gifted sister. A song was
sung by a Lamanite sister from Washakie
association. Sister McClelland of the Gen-
eral Board spoke of the grand work accom-
plished by the Relief sisters; told of her
missionary labors, and of the truth of the
Book of Mormon. After singing and bene-
diction conference adjourned until 2 o’clock
p. m. Lunch was then served to all by the
sisters of Malad.
	At 2 p. m. conference convened in the
tabernacle with President Eliza A. Hall pre-
siding. Prayer by Brother David Thomas.
Singing, “O Happy Home.” Mrs. Katie
Jones of St. John favored us with a solo.
Sister Sarah McClelland of Salt Lake City
was delighted with our lovely homes in
Malad; spoke of our duties as Relief So-
ciety workers, and the many blessings we
enjoy. A song by Sister Amy Randall of
Malad was beautifully rendered. President
William H. Richards was well pleased with
the labors of the Relief Society; spoke of
the noble work of the women of Zion. Or-
gan solo by J. G. Barret of Salt Lake City
was then given. President E. B. Wells had
long wished to visit with the good people of
Malad; was well paid for coming; advised
having a library in the Relief Society;
spoke of her acquaintance with the
prophet Joseph Smith, and of her experi-
ence in Nauvoo at the time of the martyr-
dom of Joseph and Hyrum. We were then
favored with a piano solo from D. E. John-
son of Malad. President Eliza A. Hall
thanked all that had helped to make our
conference such a grand success, and prayed
that all would feel benefited by coming to
conference. After singing and prayer, con-
ference adjourned for three months.
			ELIZA A. HALL, Pres.
			ELIZABETH JONES, Sec.

		OGDEN STAKE. 
	The annual conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the Ogden stake was held July 19,
1912, in the Relief Society hall, at Ogden,
Utah. Two sessions were held, beginning
at 10:30 a. m. and at 2 p. m., the noon re-
cess being spent in partaking of a luncheon,
prepared by the sisters of the eighth ward,
and in hand-shaking and social intercourse.
	On the stand were Sisters Phoebe Y.
Beattie and Carrie S. Thomas of the Gen-
eral Relief Society Board, Patriarch David
McKay, assistant stake chorister Arthur G.
Berrett, Elder Wm. Pickett, the stake presi-
dency of the Relief Society and the entire
stake board and a goodly number of local
officers, also Sister Pearl Jones of the stake
presidency of the Y. L. M. I. A. President

[Column 2]
Sarah W. Taylor of the stake presidency of
the Relief Society presided and conducted
the exercises. After the usual opening ex-
ercises reports of the work being accom-
plished in the local associations were given.
Nine associations were thus reported. Sister
Beattie expressed her pleasure in the re-
ports as given and especially with the inter-
est being awakened in regard to attend-
ance at sacrament meetings; this is surely
commendable and must result in good, for
it is in these meetings that we receive spir-
itual strength; spoke on temple and genea-
logical work, the necessity of and blessings
attendant on the same; referred to the lives
and work of Susan B. Anthony and Clara
Barton; also touched upon parliamentary
law and our need of observing the same.
Sister Carrie S. Thomas felt it a joy to be
present; the thought development on the
song had found a response in her heart and
she felt that it would result in a better un-
derstanding of our songs, and that we
would sing with the heart as well as the
voice; referred to testimony bearing as be-
ing faith promoting and urged the young to
attend the Relief Society meetings and
learn from the mothers and grandmothers.
Elder Arthur Berrett said it was his first
visit to the Relief Society and would be
counted as one of his most pleasant as well
as profitable days and he felt to say, “God
bless the Relief Society, and sanctify all
that has been said this day to our use.”
Sister Pearl Jones of the Y. L. M. I. A.
always felt stronger and more capable of
performing her work by being associated
with the Relief Society and she felt it an
honor to be in our conference. All the
teachings given were timely and the spirit
of the conference was such as to inspire to
greater diligence and determination, our
visiting sisters being filled with words of
counsel and cheer. Solos by the brethren
and a recitation by one of our sisters were
features that added to the enjoyment of the
occasion, and these added to the good coun-
sel given made it a day to be remembered.
		NELLIE BECRAFT, Secretary.

		SNOWFLAKE STAKE. 
	The annual Relief Society conference of
the Snowflake stake of Zion convened at
Taylor Relief Society hall Aug. 30, 1912.
On the stand were First Counselor
Clarissa S. Williams, Romania B. Pen-
rose of the General Board, Alice K.
Smith and Mary E. Connelly of the
General Board of Y. L. M. I. A.,
all members of the stake board and presi-
dents of several of the different wards.
President Nellie M. Smith presided. After
the opening exercises President Nellie M.
Smith made a brief speech of welcome.
Written reports were read from the wards,
also verbal reports were given by three
ward presidents. A sketch of the lessons
as outlined by the stake board was given,
the lessons consisting of three divisions—
Book of Mormon, Literary and Character
department. Sister Williams treated very
beautifully the following topics: The work
of the Relief Society teachers, which call-
ing is, indeed, sacred; storing of food prod-
ucts, admitting non-Latter-day Saints into
the Relief Society, the public health condi-
tions, the preparation of temple clothing.
Sister Penrose, Smith and Connelly all en-
larged upon the above topics. Piano solo
rendered by Miss Dora Palmer.

[Column 3]
	Afternoon Session, 2 p. m.—Opened at
the Taylor ward meeting house. We were
favored with the presence of Apostle Hy-
rum M. Smith and Elder Rulon S. Wells of
the Seven Presidents of Seventies, all the
stake presidency, members of the High
Council and bishops of several wards. After
opening exercises President Nellie M. Smith
gave a general report of the nine Relief
Societies of the stake; thanked all who had
contributed so freely to the Sarah Driggs
monument fund and to the refugees of
Mexico. An excellent paper on “Why
Parents Should Guard the Play of Their
Children” was read by Sister Laura Baird.
Song, The Hall Sisters. Sister Romania
B. Penrose talked on the rearing of chil-
dren and Relief Society work. Sister Clar-
issa S. Williams spoke on the following sub-
jects: good reading, respecting the rights
of others and the many duties of Relief So-
ciety members. Apostle Hyrum M. Smith
impressed the need of mothers belonging to
the Relief Society; talked at length on
health conditions. Brother Rulon S. Wells
also treated the following subjects: health
and sanitary conditions, the great work of
the Prophet Joseph Smith in organizing the
Relief Society, the broad field of labor for
woman and the influence for good she has.
President Samuel F. Smith congratulated
the sisters on their work and thanked them
for the help they had given in the stake.
	Evening Session—The ladies of the Re-
lief Society, Y. L. M. I. A., and Primary
met in the Relief Society hall Saturday
evening, Aug. 31, 1912, with a large attend-
ance of officers and visitors. All were wel-
comed by President Nellie M. Smith. Sis-
ter Clarissa S. Williams gave some very
good advice on different topics, mentioning
the great qualities of President Emmeline
B. Wells. Sisters Alice K. Smith and Mary
E. Connelly talked to the girls present, also
encouraged the mothers. Sister Romania
B. Penrose gave a very excellent lecture on
health. A good spirit was enjoyed through-
out the conference and the teachings will
be of profit to us.
			MAUD F. RAMSAY, Sec.

		UINTAH STAKE.
	The Uinta stake Relief Society confer-
ence was held in the Uintah stake taber-
nacle July 28, 1912, commencing at 10 a. m.
President Nancy A. Colton presiding.
Those of the Priesthood present were Stake
President Don B. Colton and Counselors
Earnest Eaton and David Bennion, Patri-
arch Nelson Merkley, High Councilor Jas.
M. Shaffer, Stake Clerk Geo. A. Davis and
several others; Sisters Rebecca N. Nibley
and Elizabeth S. Wilcox of the General
Board, all members of stake board. After
opening exercises President Nancy A. Col-
ton welcomed the brethren and sisters; she
also reported the stake Relief Society. Mrs.
Mary H. Stringham gave a report of the
general Relief Society work. Solo by Elder
Ashley Bartlett accompanied by Miss Jennie
Beers. Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox from Salt
Lake City felt well in meeting with the
Relief Society sisters; related many circum-
stances where people had been benefited by
prayer; gave advice on mothers’ work, es-
pecially sanitation; spoke of the difficulties
of settling new countries and of what the
people of this valley have had to pass
through; referred to the great work the
Relief Society sisters are doing to help


build Church schools and academies; urged
all to do their duty. Mrs. Aretta Sainsberry
gave a lecture on sanitation, explained how
malaria was carried by the mosquito, also
how flies carried diseases from different
places, told how babies should be protected
from flies, cautioned nurses to be very care-
ful about spreading disease, also children
exchanging books, paper and pencils, also
spoke of the public drinking cup. Mrs. Re-
becca N. Nibley was pleased to meet the
brethren and sisters; spoke of her travels
into this valley; gave Sister Emmeline B.
Wells’ best wishes and respects to the sis-
ters; spoke of storing grain, said there
should be a stake granary; spoke of temple
clothing. The mission had been given Gen-
eral Board to keep temple clothing, to sell,
hire or loan when called upon. We also have
been called on to furnish linen for the Lat-
ter-day Saints hospital; spoke of the sisters
supporting the EXPONENT; was pleased to
see so many young sisters at the meeting;
urged the teachers to do their duty; urged
the sisters to be kind to their husbands and
help them; you can be kind in the home;
spoke of mothers taking care of their boys
as well as girls, be patient with them, teach
them to pay their tithes and offerings. Sing-
ing, “Our Mountain Home So Dear.” Ben-
ediction by Elder Geo. E. Wilkins.
	Afternoon Session—Opened by the con-
gregation singing “For the Strength of the
Hills.” Prayer by Mrs. Annie K. Bartlett.
Singing “If You Could Hie to Kolob.”
Roll call showed 7 stake officers, 18 ward
officers, 88 members present. General and
local officers were then sustained. Song by
Rathera Young and Mina Pack. Mrs. Eliz-
abeth S. Wilcox was pleased with the re-
ports she had heard since she had been here;
urged the sisters to come to Relief Society
meetings, especially the young mothers;
spoke of the good the sisters do in time of
sickness; compared the dress in the early
days of the Church and the dress of today;
spoke of the foolish fashions; also of prayer
and the temptations that are thrown in our
way. Recitation by Miss Zora Colton. Mrs.
Rebecca N. Nibley was pleased to meet the
brethren and sisters again; spoke of faith,
by faith there have been many things done;
she related a circumstance that happened
while she was in Rotterdam where a little
boy received his sight through faith; she
also spoke of the power of prayer; referred
to some of the mobbings in Missouri (in the
early days of the Church); said cling to our
children be patient with them. President
Don B. Colton said his soul had been
touched as no doubt many of you have
been; spoke of some of the statistics in the
Church, also the faith we should try and
instill into our children; spoke of the time
when the Prophet Joseph Smith was in-
spired to organize the Relief Society, and of
mothers taking care of their daughters,
show them the dangers they are apt to en-
counter. Mrs. Annie K. Bartlett thanked
(in behalf of stake board) all that had
helped to make this conference a success.
Mrs. Nancy A. Colton made a few closing
remarks, after which conference adjourned
for three months.
		PHEBE A. MERKLEY, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


The Genealogical Society has resumed its 
monthly historical meetings, which are ex-
ceedingly beneficial and helpful as well as 
interesting.


OLD MOTHERS. 
I love old mothers—mothers with white hair
And kindly eyes, and lips grown softly sweet
With murmured blessings over sleeping babes.
There is a something in their quiet grace
That speaks the calm of Sabbath afternoons;
A knowledge in their deep, unfaltering eyes
That far outreaches all philosophy.
Time, with caressing touch, about them weaves
The silver-threaded fairy-shawl of age,
While all the echoes of forgotten songs
Seem joined to lend a sweetness to their
	speech.
Old mothers! as they pass with slow-timed
	step,
Their trembling hands cling gently to youth’s
	strength;
Sweet mothers! as they pass, one sees again
Old garden walks, old roses, and old loves.
						—The Century.


IN MEMORIAM.
	In memory of our beloved president,
Charlotte A. Hollands, who passed away at
her home in Roy, Sept. 9, 1912, age 51
years. In being called upon to part with
Sister Hollands, we realize that a very dear
friend has been taken away from our midst;
one who was always ready to help to com-
fort, or to contribute of her means for the
benefit of others. We feel to bow in humility
to the will of the Lord, but oh how we miss
her kind hand and her gentle presence, her
word of kindness and the spirit accompany-
ing it. Her seat in our meeting is empty,
her prayers and testimony will be heard no
more in our midst, but the work she has
done, and the blessings she has bestowed
upon her sisters, will be long remembered.
	She has finished her work and gone to
rest, leaving a faithful husband and two
daughters to mourn her loss, and we realize
that her loss leaves a vacancy in our hearts
that will not be filled until we meet her in
that home, where there is no sorrow and
where parting never comes.
	Whereas, Her position as president in the
Relief Society for 13 years makes it fitting
for us to record our appreciation of her un-
tiring labors,
	Resolved, That in our natural sorrow for
her death we find consolation in the knowl-
edge that all is well with her. She was pre-
pared to enter the realms of our Father.
	Resolved, That a copy be presented to the
family and a copy recorded in the records
of this Society.

How tender she was at the couch of pain,
	How willing her sisters to bless.
The poor felt her liberal hand,
	Her works were of righteousness.
Her counsels were fraught with wisdom,
	Her teachings were full of love,
Her example will bear fruition,
	That will follow her above.
					ELIZABETH V. JONES,
					JULIA E. GARNER,
					MARY E. DALTON.


An order from Virginia for eighty thou-
sand leaflets, recently received by the liter-
ature department of the National Suffrage
Association, is one of the straws showing
which way the wind blows in the South in
these piping times of votes for women.


The late Cardinal Vaughan, Archbishop
of Westminster, when asked his views on
woman suffrage, replied: “I believe that
the extension of the Parliamentary fran-
chise to women upon the same conditions as
it is held by men would be a just and ben-
eficial measure, tending to raise rather than
lower the course of national legislation.”


CAKE WITHOUT EGGS.
	1 1/2 cups of apple sauce, strained and
sweetened.
	1 cup of sugar.
	2 of flour.
	1 cup fruit and nuts.
	1/2 cup of butter.
	1 tablespoon hot water.
	2 teaspoonsfull of soda
	1 teaspoonfull of cinnamon.
	1 teaspoonfull of cloves.
	This recipe makes a very delicious and
inexpensive cake.

		PICKLED GRAPES.
	Put a layer of grapes in a jar; cover with
a large handfull of sugar, then another
layer of grapes, then sugar, and so on un-
til the jar is filled. Take enough vinegar
to cover grapes, sweeten and spice to taste,
boil twenty minutes, and put away to cool.
When cold, pour over grapes. A few bay
leaves improves flavor.

				MAP
	FOR BOOK OF MORMON STUDY
			By Vincy R. Barker.
	Prepared Especially for Relief Society Classes
		Approved by the General Board

	Designed to give the student a general view
and lasting impression of Book of Mormon
lands from the beginning of Nephite and Jar-
edite history at Jerusalem and Babylon, Asia,
to their close in America.
	With the arrangement of the map of the
World with the Western Hemisphere at the
right we see at once all the countries and the
leading cities involved in Book of Mormon and
early Church history.
	Because of the uncertainty and difference of
opinion existing in regard to the location of
Book of Mormon points only such locations
are made as our leading Book of Mormon stu-
dents seem to harmonize upon, leaving teach-
ers to make minor locations for their own use
according to their own interpretation of the
text.
	Listed upon the map are:
	1st. Authority for all locations made.
	2nd. Under the name of their respective
countries all the cities not located with their
reference in the text and date of first mention.
	3rd. The Hills with reference.
	Large size 24x35 inch, cloth, mounted, $2.00,
per dozen, $20.00.
	Small size, 10x15 inch, paper, 15 cents, per
dozen, $1.25. 
	Special terms to Stakes desiring to place
small ones in their outlines and large ones in
Ward Societies.
			VINCY R. BARKER
1144 Washington Ave.			Ogden, Utah
                
R K. THOMAS CO., 67-69 MAIN STREET,
					SALT LAKE CITY.
	The most becoming Styles in Ladies’
	Suits, Coats, Dresses, Skirts, and
	Waists at Popular Prices.	.	.	.
THE STORE WHERE YOU CAN FEEL AT HOME


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
		The Organ of the Latter-day Saints’ Woman's Relief Society.

Vol. 41		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER, 1912		No. 3.


CONTENTS.
In Memoriam..........Annie Wells Cannon	17
Thanksgiving Half a Century Ago..........
	..........................................Aunt Em	19
A Puritan Village ....................................	22
Notes About Women...............................	24
Household Hints .....................................	24
Relief Society Reports—
	Bear Lake Stake...............................	18
	South Sanpete Stake........................	23
	Duchesne Stake...............................	24
	Wasatch Stake..................................	24
Editorial—
	Important Step in Relief Society Or-
		ganization.................................	20
	The Election.....................................	20
	Four More States for Suffrage.........	21
	Self-Sacrifice....Lillian H. Anderson	21
	Correspondence......Sarah E. Russell	21
Poetry—
	Thanksgiving Day............................
	.................Augusta Joyce Crocheron	17
	Changes............................................	17
	Consolation....Maud Ellen Baggarly	19


THANKSGIVING DAY.
O’er all the land, wherever waved
	Our starry flag, the call has sped,
And over calm or roughest seas,
	To continents and isles has fled,
On lightning’s wings into the hearts
	That know and love its meaning well;
No matter what the scene, or where
	Our country’s sons and daughters dwell.

Upon that day there shall arise
	As light spreads over all the earth,
Like incense, to His throne their prayers
	For this dear land that gave them birth;
And joy and gratitude for all
	Its bounteous harvest and its peace,
Its wastes that wake to industries,
	Where manhood’s worth and power increase.

Frugal and plain in dress and face,
	Those Pilgrims kept this holiday,
Remembering how His guidance brought
	Them through the trackless, stormy way;
How, from strange foes, their lives were
		spared,
	How the stern wastes their labors blessed;
And, consecrated to their God,
	Their lives as He should use them best.

And God, in answer to their faith,
	So blessed them that but prophet’s eyes,
Could have foreseen what yet should come;
	That like a beacon should arise
The government and laws inspired;
	How older nations yet should see
Its flag in every land, and all
	Should reverence its majesty.

And ’neath its mighty, sheltering care,
	Freedom to worship found at last
The true path back to that high Source
	From whence life’s wand’ring steps had passed.
Thanksgiving! for our own dear land,
	Thanksgiving! For the Truth we’ve found,
And, help us Lord, that our life’s work
	Shall make the whole earth Freedom’s
		ground.
					Augusta Joyce Crocheron.
Salt Lake City,
	Nov. 15, 1912.


CHANGES.
Rejoice, O grieving heart!
	The hours fly fast;
With each some shadow flies,
With each some sorrow dies,
	Until at last
The red dawn in the east
Bids weary night depart,
	And pain is past,
Rejoice, then, grieving heart,
	The hours fly fast!
				—Selected.


[Column 1]&nbsp;[Image with the caption “JANE SNYDER RICHARDS.”
		IN MEMORIAM.
The harp strings may be shattered
And the rose leaves may be scattered,
	But the memory remaineth,
And the love that we have cherished
And the hope that we have nourished
	The immortal soul retaineth.
						—E. B. W.
	It matters not how long one may expect
death when the final summons comes there
is always something of a shock and a heart
throb not anticipated. So, though we had
known for some time of the illness of our
dearly beloved Sister Richards, still when
the word came that she had passed through
the portal of death it brought with it a
feeling of loneliness and of sorrow. A flood
of reminiscences passes before one’s mind
awaking thoughts of all that noble band of
pioneer Relief Society workers of which
Sister Richards was almost the last. Few
women can look back along the years with
such a record of worthy deeds as Sister
Jane Richards. A member of the Relief
Society in Nauvoo Sister Richards con-
tinued from that time on in the great work
of helping the distressed. She knew no place
to draw the line when there was a call for
help. She surely lived with the spirit of
Relief Society work ever in her heart and
with untiring and gentle zeal ministered to
the wants of thousands; she clothed the
naked, fed the hungry, comforted the dis-
tressed, admonished the erring and up-
braided not. The stranger ever found a
welcome within her home. She lived a life
of unbounded charity, truly one of God’s
noble daughters, who tried to the utmost to
do the Father’s bidding and forgot not the
commandment “Love thy neighbor as thy-
self.” Her name is held in loving remem-
brance by all those who worked with her

[Column 2]
and as has been written by one of her
friends, “In the community where she lived
her very name is held in reverence and es-
teem for her noble qualities of heart and
mind and the great good she has accom-
plished.”
	Jane Snyder Richards was born January
31, 1823, at Pamelia, Jefferson County, New
York. She was the daughter of Isaac and
Louisa Comstock Snyder, the former a na-
tive of Vermont, the latter of Massachu-
setts. Early in 1834 while living at East
Camden in the province of Ontario, Can-
ada, the Snyder family heard the gospel
preached by a traveling missionary and two
of the family, a brother and sister, were
converted. The brother visited Kirtland,
where he met the Prophet Joseph Smith,
and was afterwards sent as a missionary
among his own people and succeeded in con-
verting his father’s household. The Snyder
home became an open house for the mis-
sionaries and among them came the young
elder, Franklin D. Richards, whom the
young daughter, Jane, married in December,
1842, taking up their abode in Nauvoo. In
the first record of the Relief Society is writ-
ten the name of Jane S. Richards being ad-
mitted to membership at that memorable
meeting in 1844, where Emma Smith read
an epistle on Innocence. This was held
in April prior to the martyrdom of the
prophet, and was the last meeting of
which there is any record held in
Nauvoo. The Richards family left
Nauvoo in 1846 with the rest of the Saints,
enduring with them the trials and hardships
ncident to that historic exodus, but even
before reaching Winter Quarters the young
wife was called upon for another trial, her
husband having been called to Europe on a
mission and leaving his family on the way
to an unknown land. Twenty days after
his departure she gave birth to a son who
only lived a few days.
	Mrs. Richards remained at Winter Quar-
ters until 1848 when her husband returned
from England and together they proceeded
on their western pilgrimage, reaching the
valley in October of that year. Brother
Richards fulfilled a second mission to Eng-
land in 1856 and again this brave little
woman was left with great responsibilities,
in which, however, she proved her strength
of character and fortitude.
	The old Richards home in the Fourteenth
ward was for many years a landmark, being
one of the finest and most pretentious of
residences in the city, and it was the scene
of many splendid entertainments, the hos-
pitality of the owners being proverbial. In
1867 Apostle Franklin D. Richards was
called by President Young to settle in Og-
den and look after the building up of the
Weber stake of Zion. It was at this time
that Sister Richards began her active work
in the Relief Society cause, which never
flagged nor waned until forced to give it
up on account of failing health the last few
years of her life, though even then, when
unable to do the practical work, her interest
in the cause never ceased.


[Column 1]
	Her calling to the stake presidency of the
Relief Societies of the Weber stake marks
an epoch in Relief Society history. She
was the first stake woman officer in the
Church. The story has often been told of
that splendid gathering of the women of
Weber stake in the Ogden Tabernacle,
called by Sister Richards and attended by
President Brigham Young, Counselor
Daniel H. Wells, Franklin D. Richards and
many members of the Priesthood, Eliza R.
Snow, Emmeline B. Wells and other sisters
from Salt Lake City. Mrs. Richards pre-
sided and made a report of work done in the
different wards of Weber stake, both in the
Relief Society and the Young Ladies’ Re-
trenchment Association. President Young,
after complimenting Sister Richards on her
labors among the women and giving most
splendid instruction about the work required
of them, appointed Sister Richards to pre-
side over all the Latter-day Saint women in
Weber stake. This appointment was the
initiative in stake work among the women’s
organizations.
	Sister Richards held that position for a
period of over thirty-one years, when she
was honorably released upon the division of
the Weber stake, out of which three new
stakes were formed. In company with her
husband, she was many times a member of
President Young’s party traveling through-
out the different stakes of Zion and assisted
in organizing different societies and instruct-
ing the sisters along their lines of work.
Upon the death of Eliza R. Snow, when the
General Relief Society was reorganized,
Sister Richards became first counselor to
Zina D. H. Young, the new president. This
position necessitated frequent visits to Salt
Lake City to hold meetings of the general
officers, and many long trips throughout the
different stakes, attending conferences and
doing organization work, which work, how-
ever, she carried through most faithfully,
notwithstanding she still performed her ar-
duous labors as a stake president. Sister
Richards was a member of the board of
directors of the Deseret Hospital and en-
gaged actively in all the moves for develop-
ment in the Relief Society cause. She was
instrumental in the incorporation of the
Relief Society and its affiliation with the
National Council of Women, which oc-
curred in 1891 soon after the visit to Wash-
ington of Mrs. Richards, Mrs. E. B. Wells,
Sarah M. Kimball and other notable Utah
women.
	Sister Jane Richards was a woman of
rare executive ability, an evidence of which
is the erection of the splendid stake Relief
Society building in Ogden city, built with
means raised by the women of the society
and used for purposes connected with their
work.
	She has held many important positions
among women and was recognized wher-
ever she went as a woman of strong per-
sonality and unusual ability.
	Notwithstanding her active and untiring
labor along charity, social and public lines,
her home was always the great center of her
best thought, and the loving tenderness she
extended to humanity was emphasized be-
yond expression in her home circle. Her
husband and children found no lack of at-
tention or devotion, but on the other hand,
had every desire anticipated, every attention
supplied. Her loyalty to her own home was
unexcelled with it all was the overwhelm-
ing power of divine faith in God’s work

[Column 2]
which actuated every act of this most hon-
ored and beloved mother in Israel.
	The last few years Sister Richards has
lived in retirement at the home of her most
devoted and attentive daughter, Mrs. Jose-
phine West. She has occasionally had visits
from loved friends and co-workers to whom
she has given many kind words to help them
on their way, but she has frequently said
she was ready to go when the summons
came. She passed away on Sunday after-
noon at a quarter to three. One cannot call
it death, so natural and beautiful is the last
sleep when so fully and gloriously has been
rounded out life’s measure. The following
beautiful verse by Sister Nellie Becraft,
one of Sister Richards’ stake officers, writ-
ten in honor of her eighty-seventh birthday,
fittingly portrays the last scene of her life in
touching words:

“And as the twilight deepens and the shadows
	closer creep,
May the  angels chant thee vespers while they
	their vigils keep,
And may thy King, thy Priest, thy Lord await
	thee by the shore,
To lead thee to celestial joys with Christ forever-
	more.

	More honor could not be shown than was
given Sister Richards in the large assem-
blage which gathered to pay their last re-
spects to her on the occasion of her funeral
which took place Wednesday, November
20th, in the Ogden Tabernacle. A
large number of friends and relatives from
Salt Lake City, Logan, Farmington, and
other places joined those of the Weber
stake, bringing with them tokens of love
and sympathy in floral offerings and tender
expressions.
	The speakers at the funeral were Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith, Charles W. Penrose,
David O. McKay, Emmeline B. Wells,
Patriarch McKay, Bishop McQuarrie and
Sister Rebecca Monch, all of whom spoke
of the good and faithful work of Sister
Richards with great feeling and eloquence.
	President Smith’s beautiful tribute to her
motherhood in his reference to her noble
and loved posterity was most touching. Her
life will always be an inspiration not only
to those who call her mother but to hun-
dreds of those who have received from her
bounty her love and her wise counsel, and
to those who will yet learn of her good
works, for like those other great women of
the Latter-day work, her deeds will live
after her and not only her own children but
the children of the Saints “will arise and
call her blessed.”
		ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
		BEAR LAKE STAKE.
	Minutes of the Bear Lake stake. Con-
ference was held in the tabernacle at Paris,
August 18, 1912, 10 a. m. President N. E
Pugmire presiding. Sisters McLelland
and Davis of the General Board, with Presi-
dent J. R. Shepherd and President William
Budge were in attendance. Opened by sing-
ing “Guide Us O Thou Great Jehovah.”
Prayer by Bishop Lindsay of Ovid. Sing-
ing, “O, Say What Is Truth” Reports by
presidents. Sister Davis spoke on mothers.
Everything depends on mother, so how
careful we should be in our training; then
told the proper way of dressing for the

[Column 2]
Temple. Sister McLelland was delighted
to hear our reports and felt proud of our
beautiful building; related how she was able
to cheer and comfort a poor family. The
Prophet Joseph Smith has turned the key
for woman’s work; our work is pioneer
work. It is proper for the Relief Societies
to have clothes on hand for the dead. The
Lord makes us strong when we are trying
to do our duty. Related the way of laying
away our dead; spoke of the eight-hour law 
for women and girls; should not be extrav-
agant, but be consistent Latter-day Saints.
Meeting was brought to a close by singing
“O Jesus, the Giver.” Benediction by Coun-
selor Amelia Hoge.
	Dinner partaken of at Unity Cottage.
	Afternoon Session—Commenced at 2 p.
m., President N. E. Pugmire presiding.
Opened by singing “Count Your Many
Blessings.” Prayer by President W. Budge.
Singing “I Need Thee Every Hour.” Rep-
resentative Clark read a beautiful paper,
“Influence of Woman, and to My Son.”
Sister Davis said, shrink not from your duty
however unpleasant, but follow your Savior,
your pattern and friend. There are so many
temptations placed before our young, “I
Need Thee Every Hour;” do we keep the
Word of Wisdom? If we want the blessings
of the Lord we must keep His command-
ments. Set the right kind of an example
when we go through the Temple, follow in
the footsteps of our Savior, love our neigh-
bor as ourselves; read a letter from Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith on the way we should
do when going through the Temple; quoted
“I must do my duty because my parents
trust me,” and not yield to temptation; we
profess to be the best people on earth; we
teach Faith, Repentance, and Baptism. Let
our influence for good be felt. Our parents
have pioneered this country and when we
marry let it be in the right way. A song by
Brother Russell Shepherd entitled, “The
Great Redeemer Came.” Sister McLelland
followed. How fine it is to hear the beau-
tiful; we have 64 stakes and talent is ex-
hibited in each place. The young boys and
girls of today are our representatives of the
future.
	Professor Brimhall says that the experi-
ence of our Pioneers is becoming as fairy
tales to our children, but we should not let
things get away from us, let us be worthy
of all the good things said of us; when we
tell the outside people how independent our
women are, they wonder. Spoke of meet-
ing some of our Lamanite brethren and sis-
ters. We all have our own salvation to
gain. Read the testimony of our beloved
Prophet Joseph when a young man to the
world. Such a feast we have had today.
	President Joseph R. Shepherd said we
have had a beautiful time. No association
does more to help the bishops than do our
Relief Societies. While listening to reports,
how all have money drawing interest, think
they are good financiers, but think it is good
for us to have wheat on hand properly cared
for, in time of need; believe our Relief So-
cieties are doing much good in this stake.
Counselor Amy Cook was honorably re-
leased with a vote of thanks, and Sister
Millie Clark was then voted in as second
counselor in the Bear Lake Stake Relief
Society. The conference was then ad-
journed for another year after singing and
prayer.
				LOUISE TUELLER,
					Stake Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THANKSGIVING DAY HALF A CEN-
			TURY AGO.
	More than half a century ago in a small
New England village where there was only
one “Church” and that was called a meet-
ing house, because to the old-style Puritans,
Church meant the Church of England, from
which their forefathers were dissenters,
Thanksgiving was a state occasion, with all
the ceremonials such a day implied. The
meeting house was decorated with ever-
greens from the woods near by, pine
branches, and hemlock boughs, and long
trailing vines, that keep fresh under the
thick carpet of fallen leaves, with the scarlet
red berries that give such warmth and tone
to the more somber, everlasting green; not
only the public places were thus ornamented,
but the dwelling houses of the villagers; but
here one also finds a variety of late autumn
and winter flowers; and plenty of good sub-
stantial well-cooked food, for notwithstand-
ing the widely-diffused religious sentiment,
there are festivities afterwards, and plenty
of feasting. The public service in the meet-
ing-house begun usually at eleven o’clock
a. m., and it was always special; the morn-
ing was observed as sanctimoniously as if
it was the Sabbath, by the Puritans, but
when meeting was over, there was a change,
even in the minister’s family.
	The service in the village meeting-house
on the particular day alluded to here, was 
very imposing for a small village; the treble
and alto singers were all in white, with pale
green ribbon and white chrysanthemums,
one would suppose to harmonize with the
decorations; the bass and tenor wore their
usual Sunday suits with a knot of green
ribbon in a button hole of their vests; a
village Yankee, of the male persuasion,

[Column 2]
would not have thought of wearing a flower
in meeting, those were only for girls and
women folks; at this remote date the writer
has not the least remembrance of the ser-
mon, (singers rarely do have), but the an-
them which had been practiced so long be-
forehand one never forgets—and this one
was “Lift up your heads, Ye Everlasting
gates—And let the King of Glory in, Who
is the King of Glory,” and so forth;—but
this is of little consequence compared to
other things, that transpired on such event-
ful days. In these rural villages one gen-
erally knows what is going on in other peo-
ple’s houses, even, though not clairvoyant,
to the details of the dinner; but enough
transpired in one house to make this sketch
sufficiently long, and to give an idea of the
olden time, when those who are grand-
mothers today were barely in their ’teens.
	Let me picture an old rambling house,
with low ceilings and great open fire-places,
and high mantel pieces, full to running over
with children, breathless with playing games
—and with calling to one another, from
garret to cellar—running about with ginger-
bread and maple sugar, eating all day long,
and upsetting the whole house, filling it with
noise and scattering crumbs and dirt over
the well-kept floors and furniture. All the
scolding and fretting of young Mamas’ and
Aunties’ of no avail—while sedate and dig-
nified the older members of the family
looked on and took no note of the uproar,
except to say now and then “let the little
ones alone, they are having their fun now.”
	Thanksgiving dinner, at a long table, in
a great square living room, with all the
homely characteristics of the time, passed off
pleasantly; of the many expected, almost
all were present; married sons and daugh-
ters with their children, and the young boys
and girls of this large family; all dressed
for the occasion and in the gayest of spirits
apparently, and yet there was somehow a
tinge of subdued melancholy, only percepti-
ble to those of prophetic temperament. The
day wore away, the children tired out with
play, were put in bed and the older mem-
bers grouped around the huge glowing fire
of pine knots, the blaze flickering and glim-
mering in the great square room, casting
dark shadows in the corners, and against
the paneling, making one feel that such is
an hour adapted specially to telling weird
stories, and singing sentimental songs.
Plenty of stories were told of adventure, of
wonderful escapes, by sea, and by land,
stories of the ships that went down, and
soldiers killed in battle, ghost stories and
tales of haunted houses, real and imaginary
intermingled with songs such as “Black
Eyed Susan,” “The Soldier’s Tear,” “The
Soldier’s Dream,” and many a characteristic
love song as well.
	Midnight found them all sitting singing
around the dying embers, the pale light of
the lamps only revealed paler faces, for they
were well aware that on the morrow they
must separate, and naturally the thought
comes, “When shall we all meet again?”
which was suggested in trembling accents
by the mother of this large family—but try
as they would and did, they could not quite
suppress the saddened feeling that came
after this comparatively happy day. And
would it have been even comparatively so,
if either one could have peered into the
future? Alas, no! Of all that met on that
Thanksgiving day, the few who still remain
are widely scattered, having but little in

[Column 3]
common, save the remembrance of child-
hood and early life, and the tie of kindred
which is never quite dissolved however far
apart lives are divided.
	Some have fallen asleep to wake no more
in this world, and some now far advanced
in years—live on in a green old age peace-
fully awaiting the summons which comes
alike to rich and poor, high and low. Two
brave stalwart men (one only a baby then)
gave their lives to their country, and died
on the battlefield, in the Civil War. Others
more fortunate (perhaps) were wounded
and suffered pain, and hardship, but still
live to tell the story of their many encoun-
ters and their well-earned honors. These
were the young men and boys—but what of
the women, and the girls? Scattered, mar-
ried, widowed, some with large families,
and others with small ones, and still others
sleeping the sleep that knows no waking.
Were I to tell you all, it would indeed be a
romance in real life with plenty of incidents,
embellished with the charms that we imagine
only abound in fiction.
	Don’t fancy, however, that all these young
people remained in the Old Bay State—Oh, 
no indeed! They have been to the islands
of the sea, have sailed around the world in
great ships to far off India, and eaten raw
fish on the South Sea Islands, have told us
since of the beautiful long-haired tattooed
women of New Zealand, and of the darker,
stouter, plainer ones of Madagascar. They
do not all believe in one religion, notwith-
standing their Puritanical teaching. Some
are still Congregationalists, however, and
still keep Thanksgiving after the former day 
manner; and others have embraced widely
different faiths.
	But there is a chain known to some of
those who sat around the fireside in that
rambling old house on that Thanksgiving
day in the “long ago” that will bring that
family group and many another together
again in the great future, father, mother,
sons and daughters, with all their numerous
posterity however widely separated, and
whether they have died in foreign lands, or
at home, or even been buried in the depths
of the ocean. And for this precious boon,
the Everlasting Gospel, with its powers and
blessings, on this Thanksgiving day—there
is abundant cause for rejoicing, even though
the house is lonely and the heart sad with
memories of the days that have been, when
happiness and mirth abounded, and sweet
voices, now forever hushed, were wont to
make such music as we shall never know
again on earth, and yet these same sweet
faces we see as ’twere through the mist of 
falling tears, and the voices echo in the
stillness, until we fancy the curtain of the
unseen is lifted, and we are passing into the
unknown.
						AUNT EM.


CONSOLATION.
In Memory of Lane M. Clegg, by Maud Ellen
			Baggarley.
On a far-off, lonely hill-side
	Our babe forever sleeps,
And the sun shines warm on his little bed,
	And angels vigil keep.
But Father, I think of the mother
	Who misses that little head
Which nestled warm on her bosom
	But now is lying dead.
And I grope for Thy purpose, Father,
	But mystery lies between
The familiar things about me
	And the vast and vague unseen.
Yet I know a vision beckons,
	Tho’ ’tis often hid by tears,
And I know that prayer unceasing
	Lights our path through all the years.
But Sorrow sets her seal upon thee,
	Chosen ones of God above,
Linked thou art with realms celestial,
	By a bond of human love;
Human love most high and holy,
	For thou, too, didst give a son.
Tarried thou within “the garden,”
	Knowest now the crowned One.
But knowledge lights the path of duty,
	And thy mission now is plain,
By the little child that leads thee,
	Go thou forth to ease the pain
Of the suffering world about thee,
	Tell them they shall live again.
Thou canst comfort those in sorrow,
	Thou canst whisper, “I have known,”
And shalt garner crowns of amaranth
	From the seeds that thou hast sown.


The movement throughout the world in
the interest of woman suffrage has stirred
the men and women of Russia to give more
thought to the condition of women. The
Douma recently passed a bill entitling
women teachers to almost the same pensions
as men. A bill is pending to provide for the
extension of the personal property rights of
married women and practically insists upon
an equality of the sexes.


20			WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

				Woman’s Exponent

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City. Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH		-	NOVEMBER, 1912


[Column 1]
	IMPORTANT STEP IN RELIEF SOCI-
		ETY ORGANIZATION.
Counselors Clarissa S. Williams and Julina L.
Smith Visit North Western States Mission.

	For some time past the presidency of the
Relief Society have had in mind the uniting
of the several branches of the Relief Society
in the mission fields under a central head
Similar to the stake organizations. Last
summer, through correspondence with
President Emmeline B. Wells this move
was effected in the Central States Mission
under the direction of Pres. Ellsworth. Mrs.
Ellsworth was appointed president. The
next move was the organization of the
Northwestern States Mission. On the
12th of October Sisters Clarissa S.
Williams and Julina L. Smith accompanied
by Miss Emily Smith left home for Port-
land, Oregon, to hold conference with the
sisters of the Northwestern States Mission
and effect this new organization. Their
trip was most successful in every particular
and will certainly bring splendid results.
The sisters were not only well received
among our own people but the people gener-
ally in the cities they visited paid them hom-
age and recognized the great value of the
work in which they are engaged.
	The Oregon Daily Journal published in
Portland contained a very interesting
article about them and their work besides
printing the pictures of both Sister Williams
and Sister Smith under the heading, “Many
Helped Through Their Kindness.”
	The following is what the Journal says,
excepting for some errors in names which
we have corrected, otherwise the article is
republished in full:

MRS. JOSEPH SMITH AT CONFERENCE—BABY 
	HOME MAY BE LOCATED IN PORTLAND.
	Two noted women, one, Mrs. Julina
Smith, the wife of Joseph F. Smith, head
of the Mormon church, and the other, Mrs.
Clarissa S. Williams, sister to the late
noted John Henry Smith, wife of State Sen-
ator W. N. Williams, came all the way from
Salt Lake City to Portland last week, to
participate with the women of the local
Mormon church in the organization of a
Northwestern States Relief Society.
	These two women, who were accom-
panied by Miss Emily Smith, a daughter
of Joseph F. Smith, attended the several
conferences held last week, at the Mormon
church at East Tenth and Sherman streets,

[Column 2]
and through their efforts, the organization,
which is a branch of the largest and
wealthiest Woman Relief society in the
world, was perfected.

		TO CARE FOR WAIFS.
	Mrs. Williams took the initiative in this
work, and a society, which was at first
thought to be impossible, was perfected. The
object of this society is the relief of the
needy, but special attention is paid to babies
whose parents are destitute or who have
been left parentless and homeless.
	As a result of the visit here and of the
agitation made by these women, a new
baby home may be founded soon in Port-
land by the Mormon church, but not until
after the organization has seen to it that
the baby homes already established here are
able to care for themselves without the aid
of the Mormon society.
	During the conference held here, lectures
were given to the young girls and women
of the church, in which they were urged to
live right, and to take special care of their
dress, so that they need not attract unnec-
essary and uncomplimentary attention.
	The work in that direction will be made
a regular feature of the local society and is
a campaign that is being carried on by all
societies.
	In connection with the charitable work
that is done by this organization it should
be made plain that the women do not con-
fine their efforts to the people of their
church only, although they receive first
attention, but they work in all quarters.
During the visit of the two noted women
in Portland, many calls were made in homes
where it was known that help was needed,
and necessary aid was given.

		OFFICERS ARE NAMED.
	The officers of the new society organized
last week, who were named at the closing
session, are Mrs. Martha J. Ballard, pres-
ident; Mrs. Margaret Sloan, first counselor;
Mrs. Mary Westagard, second counselor;
Mrs. May Carlyle, secretary; Mrs. Ida Day,
treasurer, all of Portland.
	These women will have charge of all the
relief work in the states of Oregon, Wash-
ington, Idaho, Montana, and in British
Columbia, and they will have charge of the
organization of other local societies in var-
ous northwestern cities and towns where
none now exist.
	The new officers of the local organiza-
tion, all of whom were reelected from last
year’s lists, are Mrs. Emma Hawley, pres-
ident; Mrs. Margaret Sloan, first counselor;
Mrs. Mary Hanager, second counselor; Mrs.
Zemona Hawley, secretary; Mrs. Agnes
Crover, assistant secretary, and Mrs. Hattie
Bowers, treasurer. Mrs. Mattie Ballard
was named as assistant to the president.
	Special attention is to be given at once to
the Baby home on Ellsworth avenue, where
contributions of clothes, food and funds
will be made.
	As has been said, this is probably the
wealthiest woman’s relief society in the
world.

	PLAN MEMBERSHIP CAMPAIGN.
	The women make a regular business of
storing wheat as a source of income and
each year they receive donations of thous-
ands of bushels of wheat, which they sell
when the market is highest. The women

[Column 3]
own several very large granaries in Utah.
In case of a great disaster, the wheat is sold
to secure immediate funds, or if necessary
the wheat is shipped to the points where it
is needed.
	It was the Mormon women who sent the
first relief train to San Francisco at the time
of the earthquake, and it was the women of
this church who made the first big wheat
donations to the starving in China. The
attention of the society is now directed to
the sufferers in Mexico, who have been
made victims of the uprisings there. The
membership of this great organization num-
bers more than 30,000. An increase in the
local membership is the object of a cam-
paign to be started here soon.


THE ELECTION.
	After the battle, the reaction. In military
warfare, the first thing after the struggle
and the decision who is the victor comes
the uniting of the forces and the peace
offerings.
	We trust this will be the present effort
after this great political struggle which has
recently swept over the country. The
American people have seldom engaged in an
election where so many issues seemed at
stake and such a division of thought existed,
but the fundamental principles of American
government are such that the people gen-
erally feel whatever political party holds the
reins of power there are always statesmen
enough to steady and control the beating
pulses of the people and lead them into safe
and prosperous channels. Governor Wood-
row Wilson is a statesman, and has proven
in his public career that he is a wise,
conservative and progressive leader, and
while there will necessarily be many great
changes in the administration of affairs, it
is only just to believe that the peace and
prosperity of the nation and the people will
be the first consideration of those who have
been chosen to govern.
	The people themselves have expressed
their choice and placed their trust in the
hands of the Democratic leaders; it now re-
mains to those leaders to prove the trust is
not misplaced. There is one mighty power
that rules all nations and all peoples, and
man is only the instrument in the hands of
God to accomplish His purposes. That the
Constitution of the United States is an in-
spired instrument and the organization of
this great republic was effected by inspired
men has always been the belief of every
Latter-day Saint and He who guided and
directed the great men of the past will also
guide and direct the great men of the pres-
ent and at all times in His own way work
out those problems which to mortal minds
seem incomprehensible.
	After the storm comes the calm. Now
should all parties unite for those methods
which will bring about the best results re-
gardless of past grievances and disappoint-
ments. The people have spoken through
their ballot and have elected Woodrow Wil-
son and his party to hold the reins of
government for the next four years.
Let us hope the people will now work for
the best interests of the nation with a
united effort and a fervent faith that
prosperity and peace may continue to pre-
vail over this great nation.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


CORRESPONDENCE.
AN INTERESTING LETTER FROM OUR GIFTED
	CONTRIBUTOR “HOPE”— NOW A
			MEXICAN REFUGEE.
Mrs. E. B. Wells.
	MY DEAR FRIEND: I have thought of
you and the days of Far West and Nauvoo
many times since that ever-to-be-remem-
bered 31st of July, 1912, when we breathed
a silent farewell to our dear mountain
home; and our little train of wagons and
with our small store of clothes and bedding
started for the railway station, seventeen
miles away. The rising sun was just shin-
ing through the pines as I climbed into our
wagon, the last one to start. I dared not
look back on the dear old home, the trees
and flowers we had loved and tended, the
fattened animals in seeming wonder why
they were not cared for and what the
strange thing meant, with our dear Ben’s
last kiss and “God be with you till we meet
again.” Oh, the hardest part was leaving
our men and boys behind. God alone and
those who passed through that day can
know, and the terrible anxiety of the days
and months that lie between that time and
this.
	Bro. Harris came to me in the after-
noon of Tuesday and the next morning
by seven o’clock, our town was left empty
and desolate, with only a few friendly Mex-
icans, whom we left in tears and with many
expressions of sorrow and regret,—I find
that even the remembrance of that day is
too much for me. So I will not dwell
long upon it; I hope that notes of this


exodus have been kept and that a history
will be written as that of Missouri and Nau-
voo has been. The assurance given that we
would be permitted to return was a help
to me throughout that long trying day.
	We reached the Union depot, El Paso,
at one o’clock in the morning. Bro. Geo.
Sevey met us there, saying as he helped me
down the steps, “Lulu is here too, and has
a room prepared, so do not worry.” We
had no idea of meeting her there, but were
too dazed and weary to even be surprised.
It seemed just the right thing, and surely
she has been a help and comfort in this
time of need. It has been a new experience
for her, hard and trying in many ways but
I do not think she will ever regret it; she
has learned a little of what her grandparents
and her father passed through, in the early
days of the Church, and I trust in blessing
others she will be blessed.
	We remained in El Paso one week, it
being the wish of the brethren to hold the
people as near together as possible, being
strong in the faith and hope that we would
soon be permitted to return, but that hope
and faint prospect failed, and the scattering
abroad began. We came to Blue Water,
while the main body of Chuichupa ward
were removed to Thatcher. The brethren
and sisters have been very kind to us, doing
all they could to help and make us feel at
home. The Bishop is a son of an old time
Mesa friend of ours, Brother C. R. Hakes,
former president of Maricopa stake, Ari-
zona, and he has given us and all refugees
a hearty welcome.
	The letters that come to us from our
friends in Mexico make the tears come.
They long for a word of encouragement and
hope, and there is a heart cry for home and
those from whom they are separated, but
there is a courage and faith that would
not shame that of our forefathers. The
motto of our dear Aunt Zina, “Make the
best of it,” has been theirs. We have been
driven from our hard earned homes, de-
spoiled of earthly possessions, but the hand
of God has been with us, and His power
has saved us from danger and death.
	Our people are sundered and scattered
and there are “winter quarters” in many
lands, but the hand that scattered can
gather again, therein is our hope.
There are few if any but what are strong
in the faith that every word in regard to
the promises and prophecies given of Mex-
co and the mission there will be fulfilled.
	I still cling to the parting words of
Apostle Richards, that the colonies were
there to stay, that it was a part of Zion,
and God could protect us there, but we were
not prepared for this chapter in our lives.
	Pray for us, dear friend, that the time
for our return be not far distant; pray
for stricken Mexico, that the redemption
of her people be not stayed. There are many
good people there, I do not think there is
any enmity in the hearts of those who have
come away against them.
	We miss the papers, the EXPONENT among
the rest, and are not well posted in the news
of the day.
	I hope that all is well with Zion, that the
clouds will be rolled away, and the mission
of the gospel spread abroad in the earth,
until the universal song shall be—
	“Peace on earth, good will to man.”
With love, your friend,
			SARAH E. RUSSELL.


[Column 1]
FOUR MORE STATES FOR SUFFRAGE.
	The last election brought great joy into
the ranks of the suffrage workers, four
states, Kansas, Michigan, Oregon and Ari-
zona, each voting for equal suffrage. The
fact that Michigan has come under the ban-
ner is very gratifying, for it is an opening
in the middle and eastern states which will
certainly have good effect. The progressive
west is rapidly falling in line, and any keen
observer will see that those states where
equal suffrage obtains are the ones making
the most rapid progress in educational and
industrial lines. The earnest and unselfish
work of the women is making itself felt in
all matters pertaining to the uplift and bet-
terment of humanity. It is seen that the 
women give intelligent thought and study
to economics and are endeavoring to obtain
through public sentiment those reforms that
will bring the greatest benefit to the home,
the school, and the commonwealth.
	The National Suffrage Association ex-
pressed their exultation over the recent vic-
tory with a mammoth street parade along
the famous New York street, Fifth Ave-
nue. There were twenty thousand women
in the parade carrying torches, banners, etc.
The procession was thus described by the
Associated Press:
	Twenty thousand cheering and singing
women and men celebrated with a brilliant
parade in this city tonight the recent addi-
tion of four stars to the woman suffrage
flag.
	Through Fifth Avenue a stream of flaring
vermilion lights shone for miles, its course
guided by “votes for women” enthusiasts
from all parts of the country. Each of the
10 “suffrage states” was represented by
women leaders in the equal suffrage move-
ment there. “Ohio, the eleventh” read a
transparency at the head of one of the
divisions.
	When the parade was over, women
mounted platforms and soap boxes in Union
square and for several hours made speeches
for “the cause.” Thousands of persons
crowded about to listen. Several hundred
thousand others had lined Fifth Avenue to
watch the marchers.
	Four floats and a half dozen gold chariots
featured the parade. Each float and chariot
represented one of the 10 suffrage states,
including Kansas, Michigan, Arizona,
and Oregon, where the right to vote was
given to women in the last election. “Kan-
sas for liberty” read a transparency. “Mich-
gan for co-operation,” “Oregon for free-
dom,” and “Arizona for justice” were other
texts.
	A score of women trumpeters braving the
chill night air, wore sweeping white robes
instead of furs and long coats and sounded
the strains of the march from “Aida,” led
the long line. Only a few of the suffrag-
ists, the very elderly among them, rode in
carriages. Nearly every nationality, not ex-
cepting China, was represented.
	Each marcher carried at cane’s-length a
vermilion lantern. In their light a thousand
flags fluttered. “Votes for women,” each
read in black letters. Hundreds of banners
bore other inscriptions.
	“I voted an hour before leaving my
state,” announced a banner carried by Dr.
Maud Parker, of Seattle.
	The young women who represented the
states on the “victory float” were:
	Arizona, Miss Clark Pope; Michigan,

[Column 2]
Miss Fola La Follette, daughter of Senator
La Follette; Oregon, Miss Anna Squire;
and Kansas, Miss Pearl Squire.


SELF-SACRIFICE.
Paper Read at Tooele Relief Society Stake
			Conference.
	This subject is one which appeals to every
mother and it is difficult to establish any
rules which would govern all families con-
cerning the self sacrifice which should be
practiced in an ideal home; first, between
mother or parents and children, and second,
between older and younger children.
	I think that in the majority of homes too
much self sacrifice is expected of the mother.
	The compensation which the mother re-
ceives for the sleepless nights, watchful care,
sympathy and never tiring devotion to her
family, is the love which they give her, and
during the infancy of her children this com-
pensates for all. But as the children grow
older they should learn that true love does
not mean only to tell mother that they love
her, but willing and cheerful obedience, and
sharing the trials and labors of the home
are greater proofs of love than words alone.
	The basis of loving service is found in the
mother who attends to all the needs of her
little ones. Many times her duties would
be disagreeable and irksome if she had to
perform them for a stranger; but all un-
pleasantness is lost in the mother-love.
	The mother’s loving service follows a
child to manhood, and he is never too old
to need her tender care. There is one dan-
ger, that she is apt to wait upon her child
to such an extent that he will think mother’s
only duty is to serve him.
	We have all seen children harsh and cruel
to the most loving mothers.
	It is a strange fact that loving service
does not always command respect and love
in return. In order to truly love, children
must serve as well as be served.
	Why do we sometimes see a husband and
wife unhappy together? One great reason
is that only one of the two serves and the
other one receives.
	In order that both husband and wife love,
they must both serve and sacrifice their in-
clinations and desires for the sake of each
other.
	Sometimes it is necessary for a wife to
sacrifice something she has planned for a
long time, sometimes a recreation, or a habit,
or a pleasure; but if she does so willingly
she does not lose her own pleasure; and in
return the husband will be willing to make
a sacrifice of his pleasure for the wife’s
comfort.
	Love begets love. The love in our hearts
must be kept warm by loving service and
sacrifice, or it dies.
	It is difficult to come to any decision in
regard to what extent self sacrifice should
be practiced between older and younger
children.
	I always feel sorry for an only child in
a family. There is an incomplete develop-
ment where a child has no brothers or sis-
ters, no one to share his play, no one’s
pleasure to consider but his own, and no
chance for self sacrifice to be practiced.
	How pleasant a spirit we find in the home
where the older children are willing to lay
aside a plaything, a doll, or an interesting
story in order to relieve the tired mother of
the care of her baby for a little while, or

(Column 2)
to interest the younger members with a
game or a story.
	It often happens that the youngest mem-
ber of the family demands so much atten-
tion that the older children would have no
time for their own recreation if they yielded
to every demand, but judgment must be
used by the parents lest the little ones be-
come too selfish or willful.
	In a well governed home, each member
of the family, even down to the youngest,
must feel that the home circle is not com-
plete without her.
	To each boy and girl should be assigned
some task, duty and responsibility out of
the many required to keep the household
machinery in good running order.
	They must be made to feel the importance
of their part and to know if they neglect it
trouble and disappointment will follow.
	The training which comes from doing
even one or two things without fail each
day will soon make a boy or girl one to be
trusted and the boys and girls who can be
trusted will make men and women who
are wanted everywhere because they can
be depended upon.
	Many a mother grows old, faded and
feeble long before her time, because her
boys and girls are not thoughtfully consid-
erate and helpful. When they become old
enough to be of service in a household
mother has become so used to doing all
herself, to taking upon her shoulders all the
care, that she forgets to lay off the burden
little by little on those who are so well able
to bear it. It is partly her own fault, to be
sure, but a fault committed out of love and
mistaken kindness for her children.
			LILLIAN H. ANDERSON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		A PURITAN VILLAGE.
A GLIMPSE OF TOPSFIELD—AN INTERESTING
	TOWN AS YET UNMODERNIZED.
	When the Puritans made their settlement
at Salem, the tribe of Agawam owned the
land bordering on the Atlantic coast be-
tween the Naumkeag and the Merrimac
rivers, and inland as far as Andover. Mas-
conoment, their chief, conveyed the present
towns of Ipswich and Topsfield to John
Winthrop, son of Governor Winthrop, for
£20. Thus sacrificing his beautiful hunting-
grounds, which abounded in game, he be-
came in his later days dependent upon the
colonists. He was buried on Sagamore
Hill in the present town of Hamilton. The
first occupancy of Topsfield by European
settlers dates back to 1635, but its incor-
poration as a town came some years later.
The beautiful broad meadows that border
the Agawam (now called Ipswich) river
first attracted the early settlers of Ipswich
and Salem, and grants of land were given
to John Endicott, Simon Bradstreet, Robert
Paine and others, who formed a settlement
here, to which they gave the name of New
Meadows. The present name of Topsfield,
which might have been suggested by its
hill, was no doubt derived from Toppesfield,
England, from which place many immi-
grants came at an early day and made their
home here. Prominent among these was
a man named Smith, and there are now
extant in the old stone church at Toppes-
field, England, some interesting memorials
of his family; among them one is partic-
ularly noticeable, commemorating the vir-
tues and Christian graces of his mother.
From this mother in Israel through her line
of descendants in this village came Joseph
Smith, the founder of the “Mormon” sect,
and in the village cemetery here is a monu-
ment to the Smith family, erected through
the instrumentality of George A. Smith, a
“Mormon” elder, lately deceased. The old
town of Toppesfield, England, is said to
retain the manners and customs of primitive
times, and is far behind its namesake in
America in population and general intel-
ligence.
	The old Bradstreet farm, probably the
first one laid out in the early township of
New Meadows, covers one of the eastern
hills, its cultivated fields sloping to the broad
meadow at its base. This farm was given
by Governor Bradstreet to his son Simon,
whose descendants, bearing the name of
Bradstreet, occupy an old fashioned home-
stead built close to the original house, which
was only taken down a few years ago.
While Ann Dudley, the poet wife of Gov-
ernor Simon Bradstreet, has transmitted
her genius to some of her descendants
(among whom are Oliver Wendell Holmes
and Richard H. Dana), the benevolent
features and amiable characteristics of her
husband, the old colonial governor, can be
easily traced in some of his descendants in
this village. Anne Bradstreet was a daugh-
ter of that rigid old Puritan, Governor
Thomas Dudley, and every generation since
her time in Topsfield has had a Dudley
Bradstreet among its number, even to the
present occupant of the farm we have men-
tioned. Very few villages of New England
have retained their old-time simplicity as
this one has done. None of the hurry and
bustle of its more enterprising neighbors
have come over these hills. One manu-

[Column 2]
facturer only has gained a foothold, and
even he hesitates to destroy the quiet of
the village by importing foreign laborers,
and only employs the sons and daughters of
his neighbors and friends. No Queen Anne
turreted villa dots hill or plain, and no
summer hotel invites the stranger to this
quiet retreat.
	A strong feature of Topsfield is the
accessibility of all things that make country
life desirable to a lover of nature. No long
dusty roads or toilsome climbing are nec-
essary to put before one the wildest views,
the prettiest dells and the greenest meadows
bordered by grand old oak and hickory
trees. Foot-paths and well-worn stiles, of
which Burroughs laments there are so few
in this country, take you within the shade
of the pines up the hillside to an elevation
where can be seen Newburyport, the hills
of Ipswich, the waters of Pigeon Cove, the
high bluffs of Beverly Shore, and when the
atmosphere is clear, Marblehead and the
harbor of Salem town. From this hill we
look upon the village, with its two church
spires, shady streets, comfortable, farmlike
houses, and upon the Agawam, spanned by
bridges and shaded by overhanging trees
and shrubs. This romantic stream that bows
and bends all the way to the ocean, is like
a little brook during the summer months,
but overflows its banks in the spring and
autumn, turning the outlying meadows
into a broad, smooth lake. In the west are
the Andover hills, and beyond stretch other
ranges, with Monadnoc and Wachusett
dimly outlined on the horizon. In the center
of the village is a wide common, intersected
by paths shaded by elms and bordered by
two churches, the town hall and two old
colonial houses, built by the Emersons in the
best style of architecture of a hundred years
ago, giving a grand and gracious air to
this inland town. An ancient house still
stands near the common, built with an over-
hanging upper story for protection from the
Indians. There is no record of its age, but
it is supposed to have stood at least two
hundred and twenty years, and has few
companions left anywhere in New England.
It was the home of Rev. Joseph Capen, the
first minister of Topsfield, who came here
from Dorchester in the middle of the sev-
enteenth century. Rev. John Emerson suc-
ceeded Mr. Capen, and in his long min-
stry of forty-six years, though often de-
prived of his meager salary, managed to
amass fifty thousand dollars, a large fortune
for those days. He was a brother of Rev.
Joseph Emerson, from whom came the Con-
cord branch. The Rev. Joseph was spiritu-
ally minded, never counting the things of
this world, and he ceased to hold friendly
and brotherly communion with John, who
he thought was too much engrossed in
worldly affairs. The colonial houses were
built by descendants of Parson John, and
two years ago, when one became the
property of the Congregational church, to
be used as a parsonage, lilac trees over
eighty years old, that had been the pride
and delight of a former generation, were
cut to the ground, thus in some measure
destroying the ideality of this village. We
are reminded of the poet Longfellow, who
never wished to leave his home in Cam-
bridge when the lilacs were in bloom.
	This village, like Salem and Danvers, suf-
fered from the witchcraft delusion. Two
women—Mary Eastey and Sarah Wildes—
were dragged from their homes and hung on


Witch’s hill, while another—Abigail Hobbs
—was condemned to die, but was finally
pardoned. Mary Eastey and the well-
known Rebecca Nourse were sisters, daugh-
ters of William Town of Topsfield, who
settled here as early as 1635. All these
women had led exemplary lives, were strong
in the Christian faith, with a native sweet-
ness of disposition that endeared them to
their families and friends. They became
shining marks for this most cruel persecu-
tion, but their memory is still treasured,
and their eloquent appeals for justice and
mercy have not failed to find a place in the
hearts of the generations that have fol-
lowed them.
	The study of geology and botany is be-
coming very popular throughout Essex
county. Many of the smaller towns and
villages have organized clubs through
the influence of the famous Essex Institute
which has its headquarters at Salem. Some
of the towns have exhibited fine collections
of wild flowers at the annual fairs of this
county, and Topsfield ought to send of its
abundance, for the flora of the village and
its vicinity is rich. The meadows, from
early spring until midsummer, present a
succession of vivid colors from the multi-
tude and variety of wild flowers. Before
the roadside grass is green, and while the
buds are yet swelling on the trees, the cow-
slips or meadow buttercups, or marshmal-
lows, as they are frequently called, stretch
up their vigorous yellow bloom out of the
watery hillocks, that ooze and sputter at
the lightest weight. The painted cups then
follow, whose petals shade from green to
the brightest red, forming a score or more
of clustering cups, that draw the water
through their hollow stems and drop it
from the brim. Bryant sings in praise of
this flower, which is rarely found in New
England—

“Scarlet tufts are glowing in the green, like lakes
	of fire!”

	The wanderers of the prairie know them
well, and call that flower “the painted cup.”
Then come the dark red trilium and the
white buck bean, the thickly strewn pur-
plish red blossoms of the pitchers, the
“jacks,” with their lords and ladies, and
the white azalea, rich in fragrance. The last
of the spring production is the arethusa, with
its variegated lip and bright pink petals,
the most fascinating, delicate and delusive
of all the water plants, for it hides itself in
the most inaccessible places. The highways
and fields are covered with bloodroot,
anemones, violets, brown and blue, the dog-
tooth violet, nodding daintily on its stem,
blue hepatica, red columbine, the stately
slipper and the cardinal flower. In October,
the blue fringed gentian is often found
by their side. The woods contain fine speci-
mens of ferns that have attracted the at-
tention of botanists. The delicate brown
fern, so often in demand for herbariums,
is a native of these woods.
	The birds in Topsfield are of brilliant
plumage, and many varieties that have not
visited their old home for years, having
been driven away, it is said, by those
troublesome English sparrows, are now re-
turning in great numbers. Among them
the scarlet tanager and the gayly colored
grosbeck occasionally flash before us as
we pass through the wood, while yellow
birds, the little brown thrush, bluebirds in

[Column 2]
variety, and hosts of golden orioles, swing-
ing in their nests, are seen daily before our
doors. To appreciate the most beautiful
sounds of the country one should take an
early flight from the city. Come with the
cowslips and robins. In no other way can
the infinite variety of pleasures and sur-
prises afforded by the lavishness of nature
be fully realized.
	Practically, life in Topsfield is one of
general prosperity. “The poor ye have
always with you” scarcely applies to this
village, for even the poor farm has less
than six occupants. This farm is pleasantly
situated, and is one of the most produc-
tive in the town. They have an annex for
the “walking gentry,” commonly called
tramps, who lodge and are fed at the town’s
expense. Coffee was formerly furnished
them with their bread, but at one time so
many availed themselves of this generous
provision that water was substituted. The
question of building a separate establish-
ment for these vagrants, at some place
remote from the village, is now under con-
sideration. This will be an additional
grievance to them, as some have already
complained of the present short trip “over
the hills to the poorhouse.” The old acad-
emy, which has been a landmark for many
generations, is quaint and interesting, sit-
uated on an eminence in the heart of the
village.
	The inhabitants of Topsfield follow in
the footsteps of their ancestors, whose
traditions and occupations cling tenaciously
to the soil. The natural surroundings of the
village seem to be a defense against intru-
sion; and we should bless the everlasting
hills that preserve to us a peaceful old-
time village, the fulfillment of the Pur-
tan’s dream.—V. R. in Boston Transcript.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
	NORTH SANPETE STAKE.
	Relief Society conference held in Spring
City July 7, 1912. Opening exercises held
with the Sunday School superintendent,
James Blain, presiding. Singing, “Kind
and Heavenly Father.” Prayer by Brother
John F. Allred. Singing, “When the Mists
Have Cleared Away.”
	Sacrament administered. Primary and
Kindergarten departments adjourned to
their respective rooms. Relief Society
officers in charge; President Ericksen pre-
siding. She felt very grateful to our Heav-
enly Father for the beautiful day, as so
many could be present; was very pleased
to have Sisters Wells and Hyde of the gen-
eral board with us. Minutes of previous
annual conference read, also the financial
and statistical report of the past year was
read. Roll called, showing 131 visiting
officers and members present. Sister Annie
Candland reported the Mt. Pleasant north
ward; were united in their work; financial
conditions good; poor well taken care of.
	Carrie L. Ericksen reported Mt. Pleasant
south ward. Lots of poor in the ward, but
were taken care of. Had sold their wheat
but would buy more in the fall.
	Sarah Fowles reported the Fairview
ward as doing well. All young mothers
in the ward were enrolled in the society; had
a good band of teachers; financial condi-
tions good; were prepared to assist finan-
cially wherever they could, in caring for the

[Column 2]
poor, and assisting the bishop; had a lot of
wheat in granary and it was well cared for;
assisted the bishop in the building of the
meeting house, by gathering Sunday eggs.
	Sister Stewart reported Milburn ward.
Sisters good in their donations and gather-
ing wheat.
	Sister Mary B. Guymon reported the
Fountain Green ward as being in good con-
dition; looked after the sick and poor; kept
up their wheat and made many quilts for
the poor.
	Sister Anna Hardy reported the Moroni
ward as having a fairly good attendance.
All young mothers enrolled in the society
and were a great help; held missionary par-
ties and gathered means for the mission-
aries; had purchased an organ for their hall
and were paying for it by gathering Sunday
eggs.
	Sister E. B. Wells, general president of
Relief Society, was pleased to be present
with the sisters in such a beautiful house.
She had always enjoyed visiting Sanpete;
had visited the wards many years ago; espe-
cially remembered Milburn and Indianola
wards; little wards did great things; had in
company with Eliza R. Snow and others
blessed Indian babies at Indianola. She
was a lover of the Sunday School and loved
children’s voices, because it was sweetest
music. Prophet Joseph Smith loved all
things that were beautiful. President Brig-
ham Young was also a lover of children and
always knew them. As mothers we should
cultivate every taste for the beautiful for
the benefit of our children.
	The work done by the Sunday eggs was a
remarkable thing. The first money donated
for the woman’s building was raised through
the sales of Sunday eggs gathered by Emery
Stake, amount $13.13. The Relief Society
work was a great work, beginning with 18
members, now an enrollment of 45,000. She
asked the children to remember her and
pray for her. The Prophet Joseph loved
the prayers of the children; related the story
of the children holding prayer meeting for
the Prophet when his life was in danger.
	Sister Jennie A. Hyde was proud of her
birthplace. This was her first visit in an
official way; was pleased to see everything
so lovely. She was indeed touched in re-
calling incidents of her younger days. Her
testimony in “Mormonism” was strength-
ened by hearing the speaking in tongues
when a girl; felt the Lord had heard and
answered the prayers offered in behalf of
the sisters; felt very thankful for the assist-
ance received from the sisters of the wards
in gathering means for the different calls
made of them.
	Singing, “There Is Sunshine in My Soul.”
	Benediction, by Sister Lizzie B. Allred.
	Conference reconvened at 2 p. m.
	President Ericksen presiding. Singing,
“Utah, We Love Thee.” Prayer by Bro.
Rasmus Justensen. Singing, anthem by
choir. Sacrament administered. General
and Stake officers were then sustained. A
well prepared talk on the proper observance
of the Sabbath day was given by Sister
Lewellyn of Wales. Song by members of
the Spring City ward. Reading, “Una-
wares,” by Cecelia Olsen.
	Sister Jennie A. Hyde spoke at
length on home manufactures and Utah
products; urged the sisters to take the lead
in this matter to patronize home industries
for the sake of our children and children’s
children; spoke of the ordinances of our


[Column 1]
Church; spoke of the Latter-day Saints hos-
pital and the advantages afforded the young
women to get an education in nursing; en-
couraged more to take up the profession.
Song by Ida Poulsen.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke of the great
things done by women and the Relief Socie-
ties; encouraged the girls to marry the
right way; spoke of building up libraries,
supplying church works first; explained the
plan of the EXPONENT; the great need of
storing wheat, as great calls were made on
the Relief Society for help from time to
time.
	President C. W. Sorensen was grateful
to be present at the sisters’ conferences;
spoke of Sister Wells’ capabilities at her ad-
vanced age. She certainly had been blessed
in her work.
	Closing remarks by President Ericksen.
Singing, an anthem by the choir.
	Benediction, by Bishop L. O. Larsen.
		FRANCES E. CHRISTENSEN,
						Stake Secretary.
		DUCHESNE STAKE.
	Minutes of conference of the Duchesne
stake held at Roosevelt July 28, 1912, at 10
a. m., President Aroetta Holgate presiding
and conducting the meeting. After the
opening exercises roll call showed 4 stake
officers, 16 ward officers, 8 teachers, 2 vis-
itors, 1 committeeman, and 1 high coun-
cilor present. President Aroetta Holgate
addressed the sisters and reminded them to
put in practice the instructions that had been
given to the Relief Societies at our previous
conference, that is, in getting the young
mothers to join our societies and to sub-
scribe for the EXPONENT. All the wards
were reported by the different presidents as
in a good and prosperous condition. Presi-
dent Aroetta Holgate addressed the sisters
and advised them to continue their efforts
in those directions and get all the young
mothers to join our Relief Society, and
stated that the Prophet Joseph Smith had
once said “that every virtuous woman
should belong to the Relief Society;” she
advised the sisters to follow the plans of
study laid down for them and that they
should have the books needed in their
course of study in their library; requested
the sisters to assist the presiding authority
by their faith and prayers. Relief Society
Committeeman Duncan W. Marchant ad-
dressed the sisters; he said he had enjoyed
his labors and the duty placed upon him;
was sorry more brethren did not sense the
responsibility placed upon the Relief Society
sisters, and that we should live strong in
the faith and do all the good we could.
Counselor Olive Bingham spoke and felt
pleasure with the Relief Society work and
was grateful for the labors taken up with
the young mothers. President Holgate said
that the question had been asked, “Was it
all right to sell a quilt or anything to the
highest cash bidder?” and answered that it
was all right, but not to raffle them. Ques-
tions were asked and discussed by the sis-
ters. Minutes were read and accepted with
three amendments. Singing, “Do What Is
Right.” Benediction by Sister Eva Moffatt.
		AFTERNOON SESSION.
	Minutes of the stake Relief Society con-
ference held at Roosevelt July 28, at 2 p.m.
After the opening exercises and sacrament
the meeting was turned over to the stake

[Column 2]
Relief Society officers. Roll was called,
showing 5 stake officers, 18 ward officers
present. Counselor Olive Bingham gave the
welcoming address and was pleased to see
so many present, and especially the young
mothers, and asked them to come to our
Relief Society meetings and join them.
After the wards were reported by the presi-
dent an address was given by Sister Ida
Kirkham, which was very good and encour-
aging. She said let us always remember the
motto, “Be not weary in well doing.” And
she strongly commended this stake for the
assistance rendered the flood and famine
sufferers, and gave us many good ideas;
told many things they had taken up in their
society in Salt Lake. Lecture by Sister
Eliza Pack, commemorating the Sabbath
Day. Lecture by Sister Alta Cloward, sub-
ject, “Public Health.” President Aroetta
Holgate addressed the congregation, telling
the advancement of the Relief Society and
how it had grown from so few in members
to so many; she requested that each society
provide the books needed in their plan of
study, and to assist the other auxiliary or-
ganizations of the ward when possible. Pres-
ident Wm. H. Smart indorsed the remarks
and reports of the previous speakers and
commended them for the course in trying
to get all the young mothers into our socie-
ties. He said our work was not only spir-
itual but temporal. Conference then ad-
journed.
		WASATCH STAKE.
	The annual conference of the Wasatch
stake Relief Society convened Friday, Aug.
9, 1912, at the stake tabernacle.
	Forenoon Session, 10 a. m.—President
Joannah E. Jensen presiding. Address of
welcome, Joannah E. Jensen. Roll call, all
the stake officers, 11 missionaries, 30 ward
officers, 166 members and a number of
local authorities present.
	Afternoon Session, 2 p. m.—A very in-
teresting program of music, recitations and
addresses was rendered, including an orig-
inal poem called “Aunt Em” by Mrs. Jane
Turner. The program was both instructive
and interesting. The visitors were President
Emmeline B. Wells and First Counselor
Clarissa S. Williams, both of whom made
interesting and instructive remarks. After
the conference a public reception was held.
		CORNELIA C. TIDWELL, Sec.


24		WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.
	A few interesting figures about women
of the United States:
	Census of 1910: Women Teachers and
Professors, 327,635.
	Women Physicians and Surgeons, 7,399.
	Women in Trade and Transportation,
481,159.
	Women engaged in Agricultural Pur-
suits, 770,055.
	Women Clerks, Accountants and Stenog-
raphers, 239,077.


Women Clergymen, 7,395.
	Women Lawyers, 1,010.
	Women Journalists, 2,193.
	Women Architects, Designers and Drafts-
men, 1,037.
	Women in the Professions, 429,497.


MAP
	FOR BOOK OF MORMON STUDY
			By Vincy R. Barker
Prepared Especially for Relief Society Classes
		Approved by the General Board
	Designed to give the student a general view
and lasting impression of Book of Mormon
lands from the beginning of Nephite and Jar-
edite history at Jerusalem and Babylon, Asia,
to their close in America.
	With the arrangement of the map of the
World with the Western Hemisphere at the
right we see at once all the countries and the
leading cities involved in Book of Mormon and
early Church history.
	Because of the uncertainty and difference of
opinion existing in regard to the location of
Book of Mormon points only such locations
are made as our leading Book of Mormon stu-
dents seem to harmonize upon, leaving teach-
ers to make minor locations for their own use
according to their own interpretation of the
text.
	Listed upon the map are:
	1st. Authority for all locations made.
	2nd. Under the name of their respective
countries all the cities not located with their
reference in the text and date of first mention.
	3rd. The Hills with reference.
	Large size 24x35 inch, cloth, mounted, $2.00,
per dozen, $20.00.
	Small size, 10x15 inch, paper, 15 cents, per
dozen, $1.25.
	Special terms to Stakes desiring to place
small ones in their outlines and large ones in
Ward Societies.
			VINCY R. BARKER
1144 Washington Ave.			Ogden, Utah

R. K. THOMAS CO.,		67-69 MAIN STREET,
						SALT LAKE CITY
	The most becoming Styles in Ladies’
	Suits, Coats, Dresses, Skirts, and
	Waists at Popular Prices. . . .
THE STORE WHERE YOU CAN FEEL AT HOME


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	Plum Pudding— 1 lb. of brown sugar, 1 lb. of
suet, 1 lb. of bread crumbs, 1 lb. of raisins, 1
lb. of currants, 1/2 teacup of citron and lemon
peel, 9 eggs, beat whites and yolks separately,
1 pt. of milk, 1/2 oz. each mace, cinnamon and
nice stiff batter. Boil from eight to ten
hours first day, and four to six the day of
using.
	Fruit Cake— 1 lb. flour, 1 lb. sugar, 1lb. but-
ter, 1 doz. eggs beaten separately, 1 lb. raisins,
seeded and chopped, 1 lb. currants washed and
dried, 1/4 lb. lemon peel, sliced thin, 1 lb. in
shell of almonds sliced thin or pounded, 2 nut-
megs, a tablespoonful of cinnamon, 1/2 tea-
spoonful of cloves, a teacup of milk. Beat
sugar, butter and yolks of eggs together, beat
whites to a froth and add last, beat flour in
gradually and other ingredients, stirring a
long time or until thoroughly mixed. Bake in
moderate oven two hours.
	French Cream Cake—1 cup of sugar, 1 1/2
cups of flour, 3 eggs, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking
powder, 2 tablespoonfuls of cold water; bake
in two pie tins, cut open and spread with
custard before entirely cold.
	Cream Filling— Beat with a little milk 2
small tablespoonfuls of corn starch, add 2
eggs, 1 small cup of white sugar; stir into half
a pint of boiling milk, cook in double boiler,
and when nearly done, add one-half cup of
butter; flavor with vanilla or lemon.


<Beaver>
<Mary A. White>
				WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Organ of the Latter-day Saints’ Woman’s Relief Society.
Vol. 41.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER, 1912.	No. 4.


CONTENTS.
Elizabeth Ann Whitney....................E. B. W.		25
Relief Society Reports—
	Emery Stake..........................................		26
	Wayne Stake..........................................		26
Book Review................Annie Wells Cannon		26
In Memoriam................................................		27
Tribute and Resolutions................................		27
Mrs. Frazer’s Book.......................................		27
One Christmas Eve.........................Aunt Em		29
Editorial—
	Peace and Good Will.............................		28
	Suggestive Thoughts..............................	28
	Emma Lucy Gates and Romania Hdye..	28
	An Old Fashioned Party.........................	29
	Notes About Women..............................	29
Poetry—
	The Mother and Child............................	
	.............................Maud Ellen Baggarly		25
	Reverie......................................E. B. W.	25
	Then and Now.................Lydia D. Alder	27
	Farewell............................Nellie Becroft	27


THE MOTHER AND CHILD.
		A Christmas Poem
	By Maud Ellen Baggarly.
		The Virgin—
Then hail to thee, Mother of Jesus,
	Hail to thy office high!
That giveth to spirits temples,
	That giveth gods to the sky.
Rejoice in motherhood’s rapture,
	Rejoice in its sorrow and pain,
Rejoice in the understanding of all things
	Thou dost gain.
Rejoice in eternal progression;
	In exaltation above;
In endless lives of glory;
	Rejoice that God is love!
			The Child—
	In a manger cradled low,
	Yet on thy brow like drifted snow,
	Or a lotus pure and white,
	Peace doth lay her crown of light.
	In thy hand curled rose-bud wise
	A work of faith and healing lies.
	Yet thine eyes, love-kissed to sleep,
	O’er an erring world shall weep.
	Tho’ in a stable thou wert born,
	Thine earthly crown to be of thorn,
	Pain thy portion—heart of love—
	God doth watch thee from above!
	On thy birth-night angels sing
	And beneath—a sheltering wing
	Thou dost sleep,
	And the Heavens vigil keep.
	Long before the earth took form
	Looked thou forward to the thorn,
	Looked thou forward to the tree.
	Sacrifice was sweet to thee!
	When the stars of Heaven sang,
	When with shouts the mansions rang,
	When the Son of Morning fell,
	Thou thy mission knew full well.
	But sleep, O babe, while mother sings,
	Sleep, O Christ, thou King of kings!


REVERIE.
If in our way some shadows in the year
	Darkened our path and hid the light from
		view,
Now, looking back through mists of bitter
		tears,
	We know whose Hand guided us safely
		through.			—E. B. W.


[Column 1]
	ELIZABETH ANN WHITNEY.
			A SKETCH. 
[Image of Elizabeth Ann Whitney]
	A mother in Israel in very deed, one
whose name is connected with the early his-
tory of the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints from the establishment of
the organization and from the days of Kirt-
land, Ohio.
	Her face, even here, is like a beautiful
Madonna and her voice was one of the rar-
est and sweetest tone, the recollection of
which can never be forgotten, especially if
she sang in the gift of tongues. It was said
by the Prophet Joseph that she sang in
the language spoken in the Garden of Eden,
and this gift she retained during her long
life, more than four score years.
	In her nature she was very gentle, and
possessed in a marked degree the spirit of
prophecy.
	Before the advent of Mormonism in Kirt-
land (when she and her husband were mem-
bers of the Campbellite church) she had a
remarkable vision which was in the form of
a cloud and rested upon the house, signify-
ing, according to the Hebrew version, “The
Daughter of the Covenant.”
	When she sang with her husband, Bishop
Newel K. Whitney, who accompanied her
in his fine tenor voice—the music was al-
most sublime. In those early days in the
“thirties,” it was said to be like enchantment
to listen to the songs of Zion rendered by
those untrained singers.
	Sister Whitney had other accomplish-
ments, one of them spinning flax on a little
wheel to make fine linen, and she also spun
wool and was an excellent seamstress.
	In manner she was graceful and dignified
and one might truthfully say of her, “a lady
of the old school.”
	Edward W. Tullidge, in writing of her,
called her the Hebrew type.
	When the Relief Society was organized

[Column 2]
in Nauvoo, Ill., Mrs. Whitney was chosen
by the “elect lady,” Emma Smith, as one of
her counselors, and she often presided at
the meetings of that select society, as the
records show. Her faith was unbounded in
the everlasting gospel, and she was, in her-
self, an inspiration to younger women.
	After the martyrdom of the prophet and
patriarch the younger sisters sought Mrs. 
Whitney for counsel and in no instance did
she fail, for she was always ready to listen
and to advise. In the Nauvoo Temple she
was the leading spirit and looked like unto
a priestess in very deed. She inspired con-
fidence in both men and women, a woman
of sublime faith in the gospel and in the
Prophet Joseph Smith, indeed she was rev-
erential in her nature and temperament.
	Sister Whitney was the peer of any wom-
an of her time; she has sometimes been
compared to Lucy Smith, the mother of
Joseph, the prophet, but though they were
both great, they were two distinctive types.
	Mrs. Whitney was born in the vicinity of
New Haven, Connecticut, Dec. 26, 1800.
Her name was Smith, and when a young
girl her parents consented to her leaving
home with a bachelor uncle and a maiden
aunt to go out to Ohio, then the far West.
They traveled in a wagon and settled in
Kirtland. The country was new and wild
but the young girl was trained by her Aunt
Sally in all the housewifely ways of that
period. However, the bachelor uncle and
maiden aunt, scrupulous as they were, could
not prevent her falling in love with the
young man who was looking around for a
seamstress to make fine linen shirts, ruffled
etc. It was really a love match, and the
young woman never returned to her home
in Connecticut.
	Her associates in the Church were wom-
en of great faith and intense devotion-
Emma Hale Smith, Clarissa Lyman Smith,
Vilate Kimball, Mary Ann Young, Phebe
C. Woodruff and Mary Ann Pratt, wife of
Parley P. Pratt, Lydia Dibble Granger and
Pamelia Lott, Eliza R. Snow, Mrs. Stephen
Markham, Lydia Partridge, Diantha Mor-
ley Billings, Mary Fielding Smith, Mercy
N. Thompson and many others. There
were also younger women friends, but
those mentioned were near her own age and
were all dear friends of Joseph.
	They are all gone now, and many others,
but their memories are imperishable. They
are of the members of the Church who with
their husbands helped to lay the foundation
of this latter-day work. Blessed forever be
their memories.
						E. B. W.


President Stubbs of the University of
Nevada, speaking on the theme, “Votes for
Women,” a few days ago, declared unequiv-
ocally in favor of giving women the ballot.
He paid a glowing tribute to the noble
women of history who accomplished great
things, and to those of today who are tak-
ing leadership along many lines of activity.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
		WAYNE STAKE.
	The Relief Society of the Wayne stake of
Zion held its quarterly conference in the
tabernacle in Loa, July 13, 1912. The
morning session convened at 10 o’clock,
Stake President Bathsheba Grundy presid-
ing. On the stand were Sisters Julia P. M.
Farnsforth and Sarah M. McClelland of the
General Board, John R. Stewart and Mo-
roni Lazenby of the stake presidency, the
stake presidency of the Relief Society with
their board, and the local officers. After
the usual opening exercises President
Grundy said she was thankful for this or-
ganization, it is a great privilege to belong
to this society; said the stake officers had
visited each society in the stake; had re-
sponded to every call made of us. The ward
presidents each reported their society in
turn. Sister Farnsworth spoke on training
our children and looking after our geneal-
ogy and other topics very interestingly;
gave instructions on laying away the dead,
also on the duties of teachers. Sister Mc-
Clelland spoke on Temple work and in-
structed the Relief Societies to keep temple
robes on hand; spoke on having a library
and a Relief Society choir; gave good in-
structions in general. President Grundy in-
vited all present to stay to a banquet.
	Afteroon Session—Sister Julia Farns-
worth gave a lecture on home environment,
which was very interesting and listened to
with great attention. Song by Walter
Stewart, “I Know That My Redeemer
Lives.”
	Leah Blackburn bore a faithful testimony.
Sister Sarah McClelland read the instruc-
tions that were given to the first Relief
Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith; spoke
of the beautiful sentiments contained in
these instructions. Song by Orilla Harris
and Lota Brown “Our Mother.” Presidents
Stewart and Lazenby, also Councilor James
Hood gave the Relief Society sisters words
of praise and encouragement. President
Grundy made closing remarks The con-
ference was dismissed by Pauline Brown.
		EMERY STAKE.
	Minutes of Emery stake Relief Society
conference held at Cleveland July 21, 1912,
President Louisa Ovesen presiding. Sis-
ters Amy B. Lyman and Sarah McClelland
of the General Relief Society Board were
present. After the opening exercises re-
ports from the presidents of some of the
local societies were given. It showed them
to be in good running order and attending
to their duties; after which a quartet was
rendered by members of the Orangeville
society. President Louisa Ovesen reported
the work going on in the stake satisfac-
torily and the financial condition excellent;
felt encouraged in the work; welcomed the
visiting sisters of the General Board and
spoke briefly on temple clothing. Sister
Amy Lyman brought greetings from
the General Board and the love of
President Emmeline B. Wells; was pleased
with the attendance and with the re-
ports whic hhad been made; said the local
societies were the backbone of this grand
work and deserving of the best encourage-
ment; advised the young sisters to join the
Relief Societies, where the young and old
associate together, the best social conditions
exist; said the sisters should attend meeting

[Column 2]
because it is an absolute necessity for them
to be interested in something outside of
their homes, and the Relief Societies afford
splendid opportunity for such interest and
work; it inspires to greater effort, creates a
desire to study and improve the mind and
makes women better able to raise their chil-
dren properly; mothers should not do all
the work in the home but let the children
help and reciprocate her love and efforts;
advised the societies to collect libraries; was
pleased with the outline of study being fol-
lowed in this stake; also spoke on sanita-
tion. Song, Orangeville society. Sister Mc-
Clelland advised the sisters to apply them-
selves closely to study because we cannot be
saved in ignorance; said it was not right
for women to make Marthas of themselves,
but that rest was just as necessary as work;
asked the question, Do we work as dili-
gently for the Lord as we do for the
dollar? Instructed the societies to keep on
hand clothing for the dead; desired young
people to appreciate the privilege of being
married in the temple; spoke on sustaining
the EXPONENT and sending to it the confer-
ence news; the death of prominent women,
etc.; also spoke on storing wheat and on
sanitation. Meeting adjourned until 2
o’clock p. m. After singing by the choir,
benediction by President Lars Peter Ove-
sen.
	Afternoon Session, 2 o’clock—Bishop
Joseph Larson taking charge. Usual open-
ing exercises. After administering the sac-
rament the time was given to the sisters of
the Relief Society. The first speaker was
Stake Counselor Elizabeth A. Christensen,
who said for mothers to teach their children
the principles of the Gospel, to love the
Lord and to pray for divine guidance in
rearing their families. Solo from a mem-
ber of the Castle Dale society. Stake Coun-
selor Mary A. Sorensen spoke on the beauty
of giving freely; we must remember we are
only stewards of what the Lord has given
us and therefore should be willing to give
generously. Sister Amy B. Lyman of the
General Board was glad to see so many of
the brethren present; said Relief Society
work had two objects, first to do good and
help others, second to develop the women
who took part; showed that those taking
active part are the ones receiving the most
benefit and whose influence in behalf of our
people goes forth to the world; said one
reason why “Mormon” women are able to
accomplish so much public work is that
their husbands are willing to assist them;
gave a brief account of the National Council
of Women and mentioned the courtesy there
shown Utah women. Duet by members of
Huntington society. Sister McClelland of
the General Board complimented the Emery
stake Relief Societies on their contribution
to the China famine and Mississippi flood
sufferers; also related a visit she had made
to Nauvoo, and expressed a wish that all
the Saints could have the pleasure of visit-
ing that place; described the buildings, etc.,
of what was once the possessions of the
Saints, mentioned the beautiful site, rolling
hills, peaceful valleys, and the quiet pervad-
ing the place; also gave a feeling descrip-
tion of Carthage jail as it stands today;
spoke of her labors in the mission field; of
the faith and power enjoyed by the mis-
sionaries, and the desire and hunger of
some of the people to know the truth; en-
couraged the support of home manufacture

[Column 3]
and industries and instructed the teachers as
to their duties. Stake President Lars Peter
Ovesen said Relief Society work had be-
come a power; advised the sisters to profit
by the good counsel given. Encouraging re-
marks were made by Stake Counselor Alon-
zo E. Wall and Bishop Joseph J. Larsen.
Carrie O. Larsen said we had had a feast
and thanked the Lord that she was a mem-
ber of the Relief Society. After singing and
benediction the conference adjourned.


BOOK REVIEW.
	“The Awakening of the Desert,” by Julias
C. Birge of St. Louis, was one of the new
books on sale for the holiday season. The
book graphically tells the story of the won-
derful transformation of the American
Desert into the great West of today. The
author’s early experience in pioneer life, his
travels through the mountains, over the
plains and into the heart of the desert reads
like a romance and yet is such interesting
history that one is prone to lay down the
book before the end is reached. The de-
scription of an expedition merely for ad-
venture and exploration with sufficient
means for all emergencies not harassed with
the inconveniences and sorrows that emi-
grants into a new country usually have,
makes delightful reading, especially sprin-
kled as it is with such humorous situations
most pleasantly told. The book is splendidly
gotten up and its pages are interlaced with
beautiful illusrations showing the wild ani-
mals and and verdure of the mountains
and plains.
	There is an unusual amount of fairness,
too, i nthe historical part of the “Awaken-
ing of the Deseret,” but me thinks Mr.
Birge diverges from the thread of his story
somewhat, to go into the detail of family
life among the “Mormons.” There are dif-
ferent points of view on these questions and
no matter what one may think, even in
seeming to be fair, there always is the mark
of prejudice and evidently a desire to pose
as an apostle of reform to the “Mormon”
people. Brigham Young lived his day. He
was the great pioneer into this desert land.
The Moses of the latter days. Whether the
world accepts him as one of its greatest men
or not, his work stands an eternal monument
to his memory, and the ages will still show
in future development the results of his
master mind.
	The beautiful descriptive pages of the
book are most interesting, the incidents
most entertaining and the humor most de-
lightful.
			ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


E. Homer, one of Utah’s four Presiden-
tial electors, is said to have announced that
he will cast his vote in the Electoral Col-
lege for Mrs. Margaret Zane Witcher of
Salt Lake City for Vice-President on the
Republican ticket. He will also endeavor
to persuade the other three electors of the
State to do the same. Mrs. Witcher is serv-
ing her second term as county clerk of Salt
Lake County. She is a daughter of C. S.
Zane, former Chief Justice of Utah—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THEN AND NOW.
Why will the world forever backward look,
The present never heed nor understand,
When sight makes plain as ’twere an open
		book,
	With evidence complete on every hand?
Thus through the times when God to Israel
		spoke,
	By prophet’s voice declared that which
		would be,
They heeding not; commandments ever broke,
	E’en when the prophet they could hear and
		see.
When Jesus came His own rejected Him,
	Though prophecy His coming plainly proved.
They scorned God’s word, to them the meaning
		dim—
	Outreaching for the truth the Spirit moved.
But they were unbelievers on His name;
	They spat upon Him, hung Him to the tree;
It seems, to them His teachings were in vain.
	For they determined that His death should
		be.
“Forgive them, for they know not what they
		do—”
	Unmoved their hearts e’en when these last
		words fell,
That prove His calling and His mission true,
	And His Messiahship attest as well.
No fear falls on them when He is no more-
	“His blood be on us and our children, too-”
They trembled not at sight of human gore,
	Unpenitent, for mercy did not sue.
Death lost its power, the grave Him yielded
		up.
	Again He met His friends, as He had said,
Drained to the dregs that awful, bitter cup.
	Triumphant He was risen from the dead.
Of hundreds He was seen alive again,
	That witnesses of Him they e’er might be.
Then from Mount Olives in the sight of men,
	Ascended where His followers could not see.
As Time rolls on a change is wrought ’mong
		men,
	The teachings of the risen Nazarene
Spread o’er the earth, the all known world
		’twas then.
	Believers multiplied who ne’er had seen,
And His apostles journeyed two and two,
	The Gospel tidings carrying far and wide
Bear testimony that these things are true,
	That for mankind our Lord, the Christ, had
		died.
’Twas then the dove of Truth outspread her
		wings,
	Of His nativity a record bore-
A backward testimony ever brings
	Remembrance of the truths that went before,
So gentle Faith brought love to ev’ry heart.
	The bond of love that links Christ’s followers
		still-
In His redemption each receives a part
	And waits for Him, His promise to fulfill.
Now nearly all rejoice that Christ was born,
	That o’er Judea’s plains that start stood still,
And angels sweetly sang that Christmas
		morn,
	The song of peace to all men of good will.
Let Christmas cheer o’erflow from heart to
		heart,
	For joyous thoughts Christ’s mem’ry ever
		brings-
Oh, let us in this anthem sing a part,
	“All hail the Christ, our Lord, the King of
		Kings.”
						Lydia D. Alder.


FAREWELL.
Life, with its light and shade, its storm and
		calm,
	Its well-fought battles, all for her is o’er,
For weary waiting there has come the balm,
	And sickness, sorrow, sighing, are no more.
The shadowy river has been safely crossed,
	Her feet have touched the wondrous, golden
		shore,
Her hands have clasped again her loved and
	lost, 
And with them she is safe within the door.
How, nobly, bravely, well, her work was done,
	Her lengthened days but added yet the more


To the unblemished record she had won,
	Rounding, completing every page it bore.
What need to mourn when one so full of
		years
	And goodly deeds lays off this mortal clay,
Comes up through tribulation, in white robes,
	To reign a queen throughout an endless day.
Instead of grief and tears, ’twere nobler we
	Pledge service to the cause she loved so well,
As monument to her blessed memory,
	And so, dear sister, friend, we say farewell.
						Nellie Becraft.
	Nov. 20, 1912.


IN MEMORIAM.
	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
To the Memory of our Esteemed and Re-
	vered Friend, Sister Jane S. Richards,
	by the Officers and Members of the Relief
	Society of the Ogden Stake of Zion.
	Whereas, our Heavenly Father, in His
infinite wisdom, has called from our midst
our venerable and beloved sister, who for
many years was the leader and the inspira-
tion of the Relief Society of the Weber
Stake, of which we were at that time a
part, and—
	Recognizing, that a great and noble
woman has passed to the beyond, that some-
thing precious has been removed to a
brighter world, that her name was a syn-
onym for all that was most worthy, and
	Knowing of her uncounted services in
the cause of the betterment of humanity,
to which were devoted the best years of
her life, we realize that there has gone to
her reward one whose career was ever on-
ward and upward, and whose name will
forever be linked with the history of the
Relief Society.
	Resolved, therefore, that in her death the
Relief Society has lost a heroine and we of
this community have lost a friend—
	Resolved, that the wisdom, charity, and
all the virtues that abounded in her beauti-
ful life be held in grateful remembrance and
that we seek to emulate the same—
	Resolved, that we extend to the bereaved
family, and especially to the devoted daugh-
ter and sons, our heartfelt sympathy. May
the comforting influence of the Holy Spirit
temper their grief and may the priceless
heritage bequeathed them be to them, in
their hour of trial, the star of hope that
will shine brighter and brighter as they
tread the path of life.
	Resolved, that a copyof these resolutions
be sent to the family, that a copy be sent
to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publication
and that they appear on the records of our
association.
			SARAH M. TAYLOR,
			President of Relief Society
					of the Ogden Stake.
			ISABEL FOULGER,
						First Counselor,
			NELLIE BECRAFT,
							Secretary.
Committee.
	A TRIBUTE AND RESOLUTIONS.
	Expressions of love and respect of the
Granite Stake Relief Society to the memory
of Sister Annie M. Hemenway:
	In His infinite wisdom and love, it has
pleased our Father in heaven to call from
our midst our beloved sister and co-laborer,
Annie M. Hemenway.

[Column 2]
	She was a wise woman of unquestioned
integrity, of meekness and humility, of
mildness of word and speech, of gentleness
of character.
	The spirit and power and influence of her
life was to bring peace, and happiness, and
good will into the lives of others. She lived
to serve and aid, to cheer and love, always
putting forth undaunted energy to bless and
comfort the poor, the sick and afflicted.
	The memory of her beautiful life will ever
be a source of inspiration and encourage-
ment to us.
	Resolved, That we mourn her loss as a
faithful worker, a devoted mother and wife,
a true Latter-day Saint.
	Resolved, That we extend our heartfelt
sympathy to her husband and children, and
pray God that His comforting influence may
be with them in their hour of bereavement.
	Resolved, That we place a copy of this
memento on our stake record, that a copy be
sent to the family of the deceased, and
one be sent to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for
publication.
		LEONORA T. HARRINGTON,
		LAURA E. CUTLER,
		EMILY M. BRINTON,
					Stake Presidency.
		PRUDENCE BROWN,
						Stake Secretary.


MRS. FRAZER’S BOOK.
	Mrs. Fraser, sister of F. Marion Craw-
ford, has recently published a new book en-
titled “Reminiscences of a Diplomatist’s
Wife,” in which there are many references
and memories of her talented brother. One
of Mrs. Fraser’s interesting memories of
many printed in “The Bookman,” is a day
spent at Pompeii with her brother when he
was full of his book “Zoroaster.” It was a
day all blue and white, of the thousand clear
and tender shades, that the verticle mid-day
sun of the south draws from marble and
sky and sea, and they were reconstructing
the Pompeii of two thousand years ago with
the fine Roman ladies and their lords and
cavaliers and troops of clever slaves, the
dancers and singers, the busy shop keepers
and the smart garrison and the brown fisher
folk, when Marion began to read the “Chant
of the Priests” which he had just written
for the opening chapter of “Zoroaster.” He
was always a wonderful reader, with his
full voice, his restrained and sonorous bal-
ancing of phrase. But that day some strong
compelling chord had been touched and
Mrs. Fraser recalls that after the first few
words his hearers were in Italy no longer,
but in the heart of the older world, the gor-
geous, gold-clothed, sun-worshipping near-
East.”
	The memories of Crawford recall to mind
his visit to Salt Lake City and how he was
entertained at the Bee Hive House, then the
residence of Spencer Clawson, by the Utah
Woman’s Press Club. He gave a most de-
lightful lecture in the city which, like many
other of our splendid opportunities, was only
slightly appreciated and now that this great
novelist is no more we realize our neglect.
But in the perusal of Mrs. Fraser’s book
there are many glimpses of his greatness
which those who met him will read with
pleasure.
	
						A. W. C.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

			Woman’s Exponent

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

Statement of the Ownership, Management, Etc.,
	of WOMAN’S EXPONENT, published
	monthly at Salt Lake City, Utah, required by
	the Act of August 24, 1912:
	NAME OF		POST OFFICE ADDRESS
Editor, Emmeline B. Wells, Salt Lake City, Utah
Managing Editor...........................................
	....Emmeline B. Wells, Salt Lake City, Utah
Business Manager.........................................
	....Emmeline B. Wells, Salt Lake City, Utah
Publisher........................................................
	....Emmeline B. Wells, Salt Lake City, Utah
Owner, Emmeline B. Wells, Salt Lake City, Utah
	(No bondholders, mortgagees or other security
holders.)
[Signed]					EMMELINE B. WELLS.
	Sworn to and subscribed before me this 23d day
of October, 1912.
[Seal]					JOHN M. CANNON,
								Notary Public.
	My commission expires Apr. 26, 1913.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH	-	DECEMBER, 1912


PEACE AND GOOD WILL.
	To those older grown, Christmas means,
in sober reality, peace and good will and
the uniting together of family ties and
those of kindred and dear friends, in the
bonds of good fellowship, and partaking of
each other’s hospitability.
	This really engenders the love of Christ
and as it were, casts a halo of love and ten-
derness over and around those whose
hearts are already touched with the love of
all humanity, the spirit of the divine Master,
possibly in a lesser degree.
	Nowadays Christmas seems to have de-
veloped into a giving of gifts almost indis-
criminately and in this respect seems per-
haps to many a time to be dreaded instead
of welcomed. People sometimes give that
which they cannot afford and which they
have not the courage to refrain from giving.
It is the spirit of keeping up with one’s
friends and relatives who possibly are able
because of circumstances to give liberally.
	It is a false idea to wish to do as others
do, much better is it to refrain and not fol-
low the trend of popularity but maintain
one’s own dignity, even at the risk of being
misunderstood.
	To offer assistance with that tact and
generosity that would make the recipient
feel it an honor to accept instead of being
wounded is always commendable.
	Let not Christmas day pass without in
some way being significant of the charity
that never faileth, the bestowal of that
which will give joy to some human heart.
	Family gatherings have become almost es-


sential to Christmas enjoyment, and the
more primitive ones in most instances are
the most enjoyable.  We are all inclined to
think Christmas is only for the children,
but after all is it not a day to refresh one’s
memory with fond and loving thoughts of
those not present or who have gone before?
	Perhaps the most happy gatherings at
the Christmas time are when the members
of a family, married and single, assemble at
the old home and gather around the festive
board and recount old times when they were
young. Family reunions bring out the finest
emotions of the human heart, and the pearls
of love and affection that lie deepest are
brought forth and given place where they
will shine brightest and linger longest, en-
during while life remains to be treasured in
years to come when those who brought
forth these gems shall have passed into eter-
nity.


[Column 1]
	SUGGESTIVE THOUGHTS.
	We congratulate our readers and the Re-
lief Society sisters everywhere on what has
been accomplished by the organization dur-
ing the year now just being completed.
	The year has been replete with interesting
developments in an extension of work along
new lines and the tendency to spiritual
growth will be apparent in the near future
in this great work.
	The methods used to secure means for
charitable purposes for which the society
was organized is one of the problems that
has to be dealt with in a practical way.
	There is also an, educational side—the
study for the improvement of the mind and
heart, and the necessity of knowledge of
what is taking place from day to day and
the progress made along what is termed the
woman’s field of activity.
	The subjects discussed in clubs, social and
literary, might be introduced in their proper
place in the Relief Society. Already much
has been done in this direction through lec-
tures and by other means connected with
the mothers’ work, but more can yet be
given if care is taken to keep a balance of
spiritual growth in the ascendancy.
	Faith in the gospel and in the principles
thereof must be at the root of all progress,
if we are to succeed in securing the salva-
tion of those most near and dear to us,
which is the ultimate desire and object of
all Latter-day Saints. That we cannot be
saved in ignorance is an established fact,
therefore we must strive to educate our-
selves along all lines.
	We cannot too highly appreciate the ad-
vantages we have in and through the Relief
Society. It is the best and most complete
system of organized charity that has ever
been known, extending into all civilized
countries where the gospel has been
preached and converts made, and giving to
women the opportunity to dispense char-
ity, in wisdom, to all those in need of ma-
terial help; and the still higher privilege to
minister in a spiritual way to those who are
seeking the bread of life, also the sorrow-
ing and the despondent who are in darkness
and who appreciate a helping hand, for the
sisters, generally speaking, are full of ten-
derness and sympathy and, endeared to each
other in the bonds of loving fellowship, are
able to draw near to the standard of excel-
lence set by the Savior who had the love

[Column 2]
that surpassed all other love, that which
made him willing to. lay down his own life
that mankind might be permitted to enter
into the presence of the Father and partake
of the blessings pertaining to life everlast-
ing.
	If we who profess to follow in the foot-
steps of the Savior could keep in mind his
precepts, how much better the world around
us might be made! At the close of the year
many of us make resolves to do better in
the days to come and often fail to carry
them out because of the hurry and bustle of
the work-a-day world, the mind being too
much occupied with trying to keep up with
those around us in worldly things, and we
forget the higher and more far-reaching
matter that pertains to the better side of our
life. These things should not be neglected,
for they tend to enrich our own souls and
make better also the lives of those around
us, whom we love and whose well-being is
more dear than our own.
	After all, it is the firm belief of the writer
that the world is growing better, that man-
kind is attaining a higher standard of mor-
ality and that a greater number of people
are seeking after truth and striving to keep
more fully the higher law, “To do unto
others as we would have others do unto us.”
There has never been a time in the world’s
history when the love of human kind was
so manifest in words and deeds as the pres-
ent. Intelligence has become more wide-
spread and the springs of joy and happiness
that flow from its fountains are reaching
out to all who will receive its benefits.
	There need be no fear of a backward
tendency now; the world is too far ad-
vanced, and the generation of younger peo-
ple who are now coming forward with minds
alert and with new energies will keep up
with tlie rapid advancement in the race for
progress. In view of all this, the writer
urges the sisters in all the Relief Societies to
cultivate faith and never neglect to pray
with faith. As a help in this direction we
would recommend the Lectures upon Faith
in the book of Doctrine and Covenants. If
we had the faith that the sick could be
healed, what a precious blessing it would
be, and faith like this we should instil into
the souls of all who will listen to the teach-
ings on this subject. We must, as older
people, embody faith in all our teachings to
the youth of Zion that it may become a part
of their daily lives. “Faith is the substance
of things hoped for, the evidence of things
not seen.” Tennyson says, in his celebrated
poem, “In Memoriam:”
“Strong Son of God, Immortal Love,
Whom we, that have not seen. Thy face,
By faith, and faith alone, embrace,
Believing when we cannot prove.”


EMMA LUCY GATES AND ROMANIA
			HYDE.
	It is often remarked that Utah’s sons and
daugthers who have ventured out along
lines of art and education in the world, have
pretty generally succeeded. In eastern col-
leges they rank among the highest for ex-
cellence and the most gratifying thing is
their splendid standard for good character.
Their moral training at home and the im-
planting from their youth the highest ideals,
together with the splendid religious teach-
ings received, fortify the children of the


Latter-day Saints in such a way as to render
them equal to withstand temptation, resist
evil and pursue an even and industrious
course in their line of work. Among those
who have certainly proven all these things
is our glorious songstress, Emma Lucy
Gates, who, notwithstanding the applause
and flattery of the public, returns occasion-
ally to her old home and people the same
sweet, guileless girl, without vanity, without
conceit, a tireless worker in her art, giving
of her talents and accomplishments for the
joy and delight of her friends. Miss Gates’
home-coming this last time was followed by
a long, severe illness which, of course, was
a cause of alarm to her friends and family
and deprived her of the great enjoyment
she had anticipated in her home-coming.
Now, however, she has entirely recovered
and after giving three concerts in her native
state will once more resume her work
abroad. It is with great satisfaction her
friends note that her beautiful voice has not
been impaired through her long illness. May
she meet with more and greater success than
ever in her chosen field of work, realizing
pleasure while giving pleasure to others.

	A friend remarked the other day, “I don’t
know which I enjoy most, listening to the
playing of Romania Hyde or looking at
her, she is such a beautiful picture,” and
another one said, “There’s one little girl I
think every one ought to help in her venture
to go abroad to study, for she has certainly
proven herself the most willing, accommo-
dating little artist I know.” Such remarks
as these show something of the way Miss
Romania has unconsciously won the hearts
and admiration of the public, for the framers
of the quoted sentences are not personally
acquainted with her.
	Miss Hyde expects to leave the first of the
year, in company with Miss Gates, for Eu-
rope where she will continue to pursue her
musical studies. She has already proven her-
self an artist and her friends expect that
when next they hear her beautiful playing
of the violin, she will be a recognized
virtuoso.
	That both these gifted girls will have
every desired success and realize their most
ardent expectations is the wish and prayer
of all their numerous friends.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


AN OLD-FASHIONED PARTY.
	On one of the cold, frosty nights in De-
cember the sumptuous home of Mrs. A. W.
McCune was the scene of a most delightful
old time party. While without the air was
brisk and cold, within everything was bright
and merry, as old friends met in pleasant
greeting. The message from the hostess,
“Come in old-fashioned dress,” was readily
responded to, and the result was a scene
of different eras, as passing from room to
room, one greeted first a colonial dame with
powdered hair and flowered silks, then per-
haps a southern belle with filmy flounces and
jewels rare, and turning noted a bride of
some forty years in a gown of ivory satin
—such a mixture of old lace and lavender
bringing back the scent of roses from some
old fashioned garden or the strains of a
waltz from the long ago.
	The most charming figure in all this
quaint array was the hostess herself, as she
greeted the incoming guests and so solicit-
ously looked after their entertainment. She
wore a handsome gown of chantilly lace,


flounced over crinoline, a costume seen per-
haps in some old lady’s magazine, but almost
beyond the memory of this generation, with
jewels and laces of the same period. The
guests enjoyed to the extreme the inter-
change of memories and laughed heartily at
the sight of the queer bonnets and hats. The
ball-room presented a quaint and interesting
picture and many advanced in years seemed
young again while engaging in the minuet
and quadrille of their youth. To give such
pleasure to one’s friends is a delight in itself
and this old-fashioned party is another beau-
tiful page in memory’s book for both hostess
and guest.


ONE CHRISTMAS EVE.
	An old brown farm house standing upon
a hilly slope, near a hemlock grove where
one of those low murmuring pebbly brooks
rippled along, its undertone harmoniziong
perfectly with the sighing and shivering of
the great pines in the background of the
pretty picture. Look, there is a crowd of
children coming in from a ramble laden
with evergreens, hemlock boughs, trailing
vines and bright red winter berries. How
merry they are, chatting gaily, and their
laughter ringing out in the clear, frosty air.
	A light snow is falling, which makes the
scene even more attractive. What a pic-
ture for an artist these little folks would
make! The long vines they have pulled
from under the thick carpet of fallen leaves,
that had covered and kept them fresh until
the winter holidays, when there are no flow-
ers in the gardens outside, are wound
around them, giving them the appearance
of wood-nymphs.
	These village children are familiar with
woods and fields, and happy in their simple
country life; they have no idea whatever, of
city ways and extravagant tastes, they have
not even had a glimpse of the great busy
world outside, its gaiety or wretchedness.
	It is the day before Christmas, and with-


[Column 1]
in the homely dwelling great preparations
are being made for coming festivities. The
children left to their own fancies had wan-
dered away in the pine woods, and re-
turned home carrying in their arms and
about them the boughs and vines and ber-
ries; and soon they are busy hanging them
around the walls of the long, low, living
room where the meals are always served
and the family gathered in the winter
weather. There, on a winter evening,
many interesting stories and anecdotes were
told and old-fashioned songs sung, and in
the great wide fire place the pine knots
blazed high and the reflection on the dark
oaken paneled walls made many a fanciful
light and shadow, so weird and strange that
they were ever afterward remembered by
the little ones reared in that  happy home.
On that particular Christmas eve, the ever-
greens were festooned and garlanded so
heavily and the dark green hung with
shining red berries, so that hte dim shad-
owy light when it danced fitfully over and
around made a strange contrast in its weird-
ness to the bright-eyed, rosy-cheeked, merry
children who fluttered hither and thither
singing and laughing, admiring the decora-
tions and calling the attention of the older
ones to the quaint and pretty designs.
	So rustic seemed this country home with
its simple but tasteful ornamentation that
one might almost imagine it a woodland
scene, and the smell of the fragrant hem-
lock and pine was like a perfume from the
forest itself.
	How different was this home of nearly
half a century ago, plain and primitive in
all its appointments, to even the village
homes of today.
	There was no chandelier hanging in the
great wide bare hall, only plain wooden
pegs for the hats and coats, and it had no
carpet, but a painted floor with gay-colored,
warm, home-made woolen mats, the only
really attractive feature, except the reflec-
tor that hung on the wall, and was only
lighted on special occasions.
	The house was unusually gay this Christ-
mas eve, though these Puritanical New
England folks didn’t make so much ado
about Christmas then as they do now; stil
it was customary to have a holiday week be-
fore New Year’s, and visits were inter-
changed among relatives and friends, and
elaborate dinners were indulged in. There
was much feasting and merry-making and
many queer old games for pastime besides.
Who shall say that those were not “the
good old times,” of which we sing and talk
and moralize so much? I may have been
too prosy in describing this country dwell-
ing, etc., and perhaps ’twould please the
present generation better to plunge into the
story without preamble, but all this is so
vivid to the writer, and it will do our boys
and girls no harm to know how their moth-
ers and grandmothers lived many years ago.
As I sit before the blazing fire late on a
winter’s night, I can call up many striking
pictures and incidents and remember well
the people that figured in the dramas that
actually transpired, out of which the threads
of many stories might be woven, and I per-
haps indulge too much in reverie and sim-
plify beforehand what ought to be brought
out in the narrative itself.
	This Christmas eve was the last one that
the large family assembled there on that
occasion, not one missing, ever spent within
those time-honored walls; for ere another

[Column 2]
year had flow the group was broken, and
one, “only a girl,” had gone far away and
everything seemed to change from that time,
one went here and another there, and by
and by the cruel war of the rebellion came
and sad tragedies followed; but we forbear
to name these things now and come back to
the Christmas even and for this once we’ll
watch these festive merry makers.
	It was a numerous family and the older
married ones who lived at a distance came
one after another during the day before
Christmas each with their little ones; there
were three daughters married whose hus-
bands came with them and one son with his
wife, and another unmarried son whose
employment took him away from his native
village. Late in the afternoon all had ar-
rived, and the old home resounded with
heartfelt rejoicing. All these were to dine
at the old homestead and spend a day or
two or more after at the dear place they
loved so well, and late that night when
the very little ones were sleeping, the
younger children lingered to hear thei
older brothers and sisters talk over the days
when they were at home, and try to recall
incidents and circumstances and repeat over
old stories, each one in turn filling in a
part that another had forgotten. After the
story telling, songs were sung and every one
was required to add something to the eve-
ning’s amusement. The stories and songs
were mostly of a legendary character, and
later on a sort of dullness fell upon the
party that none of them were willing to
acknowledge, yet all felt more or less, and
attributed it in a measure to the nature of
the pastime with which they had passed the
hours away.
	Finally, after a lull in the conversation,
and the fire was beginning to burn low, one
of the company suggested it was almost
twelve o’clock and soon they could wish
each other “a merry Christmas,” and retire,
for it seemed to be silently conceded that all
were tired; and just when a sort of quiet
reigned, another broke in upon the spell that
was apparent with, “I wonder what will
happen before another Christmas eve,” and
quick as answers often come without
thought, two or three voices at once burst
forth with the exclamation, “Edward will
be married, and we shall have another sister
added to our number instead of missing
one.” But no one of all assembled there
thought that ere another year had flown,
the half-grown girl who sat there that
night so pale and thoughtful, like one in a
dream, would be gone forever from their
midst into a new and very different life.
	As is often the case after very lively and
rather gay enjoyments a sort of solemnity
fell upon the party, and the merry Christ-
mas, as it resounded through the rooms
seemed to leave a hollow echo in the apart-
ments, that was more like a farewell than
the tone of glad greeting such as it was
meant to be.
	The wind was howling outside now,
though the day had been rather a placid one
with only a light fall of snow at intervals.
The evening had passed quickly and there
had been so much sparkle and brilliancy in-
side that the sounds without had not dis-
turbed them in the least, but when quiet set-
tled down and the family separated for the
night, the elements seemed in great commo-
tion; the wind was fairly shrieking and the
great elm trees in the yard swayed to and
fro and crackled, and the sighs and moans

[Column 3]
of the pine woods in the distance were pite-
ous to listen to. To one full of sentiment
these melancholy dirges, especially on a win-
try night, have something inexpressibly ten-
der and significant in them, and the voices
in the wind are full of the sweetest pathos,
yet appealing to the strongest emotions, that
give expression to the human soul in its
deepest distress; yea, even in the agony
that is beyond expression. They seem to
cry out for the suffering ones and to moan
piteously in the night time while the glad
world of humanity is wrapped in sleep. This
night was a dismal one, and the young peo-
ple grew nervous from the sadness that
brooded over their Christmas greetings. It
was as though a presentiment came that
something was about to happen; even
though all was peace and quietness within
and no knowledge of any evil shadow lurk-
ing about or around had caused this melan-
choly foreboding.
	Life was rich with promise to all the
household, and especially so to the little
maiden who was just bursting into woman-
hood; her amiable manner and cheerful dis-
position were the very life of the old home,
nothing could be brighter or more hopeful
than the future prospects of this young girl.
The world to her was so full of beauty and
sweetness and she had been a favorite with
all the household.
	It sometimes happens that the child bursts
suddenly as by revelation into a knowledge
of the forces that have lain dormant in the
mind through all the tenderer years, while
in others perhaps it only dawns upon them
through slow processes of reasoning or bit-
ter experiences.
	But we were talking of Christmas festivi-
ties, and though the wind howls and the
woods take up the echo, the great logs burn
brightly and happy faces light up the Christ-
mas morn. Snow had fallen very deep and
when the hall door was opened the great
bank of light snow fell in upon the floor to
the delight of the children who were not
permitted to go out in such weather. Th
morning sun shining in dispelled the gloom
of the previous night, and in the exercises
of prayer and reading of passages from the
Bible, which was customary in this house,
the melancholy died away and the breakfast
was partaken of in the most cheerful mood
by all.
	During the day, while visiting with each
other, the daughters roamed through the
house from garret to cellar, commenting up-
on the old styles and suggesting modern im-
provements. The mother objected to new-
fangled notions and affirmed that the old
home was dearer to her from association
than any other could ever be, however ele-
gantly fitted up, or modernized
	“I am loth to leave this dear old place
where I have been so many years a happy
wife and mother, or to part with any portion
of my household furniture, for all your de-
rision, and making fun of my antiquated no-
tions. Furniture is not made of such rich
wood nowadays, much of it is sham, and on
a par with the rude brusque manners of
some of our young people.” “But, girls,”
said the mother, continuing, “you may each
of you select a piece of furniture today to
take with you to your own home, and re-
member whatever happens you must not
part with it, let it be as a memento of your
childhood home and of this Christmas visit.
And so they did, and long after, when
many of those who ate their Christmas din-


[Column 1]
ner together on that day had gone to “that
better land” those who remained were re-
minded of the time they had spent together
with the darling mother, and of the sweet
and gentle words she had spoken.
	But we must not forget the dinner, which
was a most elaborate affair, and served in
the room decorated by the children with
only natural evergreens and red berries, but
so dark and curiously woven together that
it was weird enough for a gypsy’s camp.
Christmas-trees were unknown in that prim-
tive place in those days, and the gifts that
were bestowed were generally those of love
and good-will.
	But the dinner was delicious, and about
forty persons, including children, sat down
together around that festive board. Turkey
with savory dressing, young pigs, roasted
whole, puddings, pies, cakes and preserves
with a variety of condiments and side
dishes. No wine or sweet cider even were
ever served to the guests in that house, the
mistress strongly objected. “My boys,” she
always said, “shall never be tempted at
home to partake of strong drink.” But rosy-
cheeked apples piled high in elegant glass
and china dishes, made the table quite orna-
mental; oranges too from Florida added to
the beauty of the sumptuous feast, and
tempted the already sharpened appetites of
the children.
	Long they lingered at table, this happy
family, on that day which seemed forever
after to mark an era in their lives; one joke
after another was told and some of them
had a very practical application, but all was
in good nature and jollity, and the daylight
faded into eventide ere the company had
realized its approach.
	The lamps were lighted, the tables cleared
and put back, the shining hearth clean
swept, a fresh supply of cragged pine-knots
piled high in the great open fire-place, upon
the heavy dog-irons; and the pastimes of
the evening commenced. Each one was to
do something, tell a story, sing a song, re-
late an anecdote, or give some pleasing reci-
tation; the programme was an impromptu
one, yet mostly they agreed, no one differ-
ing with another as to how or why they
should render due regard to the appoint-
ment.
	The hours sped as on the wings of the
wind, and ere the half was told the midnight
bell pealed out in the frosty air. Mrs. Cur-
tis never encouraged sitting up after mid-
night, not even for company. One by one,
the visitors and the family departed to their
rooms with a formal goodnight, except the
unmarried son, who had won something of
a reputation as a practical business man,
and who, during his occasional visits to the
home of his childhood, always took the op-
portunity to advise with his mother on his
own account, as well as hers. So far since
his arrival there had really been no good
chance of their speaking apart, and he had
begun to feel very uncomfortable. This eve-
ning he felt determined to detain his mother
after the rest had retired; there was still a
blazing fire, and it seemed to invite the con-
fidence of those whose hearts need warmth
and sympathy. Bachelors ever do, and Ed-
ward had never been married, and his life
was a sort of Bohemian kind, that pleased
him well, but that his exemplary mother
thought was simply dreadful.
	He had been a great favorite with his
mother always, such a serious, steady boy,
and now such a finely proportioned, brown-

[Column 2]
bearded, handsome young man with great
blue eyes that seemed to speak volumes in
a glance. The village girls made no secret
of their admiration for him, and wherever
he went he attracted the attention of those
about him, and influenced them much as he
wished when he chose to exert his powers.
He was a man of strong emotions and de-
votedly attached to his mother, and her in-
terests. In many respects the mother and
son were very similar. They had been ac-
customed to confer together on financial
family matters, and Mrs. Curtis had always
found Edward a safe adviser. He was fond
of home in his own way, and very fond of
his aristocratic looking mother, as well as of
her excellent economy and management of
the homestead with its fine, broad acres of
meadow-land, pastures, hillsides and woods.
	“My mother,” he had often said to gen-
tlemen friends, “can manage an estate as
well as most men; her executive ability is
quite equal to that of any man in our coun-
try, and I am sure she would make a good
judge: she has that sort of judicial manner
of weighing things and giving her opinion
when she has looked on all sides.”
	In fact, Edward Curtis had said, on one
or two occasions, if he could find a young
woman with such a well-balanced head as
his mother had he would ask her to be his
wife. On this Christmas night, when mother
and son were left alone for a few moments,
at first a sort of restraint seemed to hinder
the freedom felt in times past. Edward felt
he must break the spell, and looking up
with his great, fathomless blue eyes, in-
quiringly said, “What about the homestead,
mother, if you are determined to go West?
I was in hopes it was not true, but on com-
ing to the village I find it is quite under-
stood by the neighbors. We’ve been so
happy here these many years, and it’s such
a delightful place, might be made a charm-
ing summer resort, everything to make it
attractive in that way, if we chose to do it.
There is not a more picturesque spot in all
this part of New England, and it abounds
in sequestered vales and nooks among the
hills. Oh, I can’t think of its being sold to
strangers: I like the English idea of ances-
tral inheritance.”
	The tender-hearted mother heard him
through, and with characteristic firmness re-
plied: “Edward, I have thought all this over
and made up my mind that if you would,
you could keep the old home from going
into the hands of strangers?”
	“Why, mother, what do vou mean?”
	“I mean simply this: Marry, and settle
down here—not one of your city belles.
They might only fancy the place, beautiful
as its surroundings are, for a summer sea-
son, but one of our own villagers, and after
awhile you may see things as I do, and join
us in the West. Then you would be more
reconciled to the parting.”
	“Well, mother, I’ll think about buying the
place, but as for the village girls, they are
all pure-minded and innocent doubtless, and
that should be an inducement, but I shall
not marry yet awhile. I’d like this strong
attachment for the home and its belongings
to wear off a little before we part with it, if
it ever will: every foot of the land is en-
deared to me by some memory or other: the
old well-sweep, I love to hear it creak as in
my schoolboy days when the wind blew
from the hemlock grove yonder, though it’s
not a think of beauty by any means. I have
made a sketch of it, which I intend to keep

[Column 3]
for the sake of old remembrances; there
will never be any water that will seem so
sweet and pure in all the years to come, I
fear, as I have drunk from that old well,
with its undignified sweep, that we can see
such a distance away. The new fangled
pumps don’t compare with it in my opinion,
still, in new houses I prefer them, but in this
place I like things just as they are.”
	“I am glad, Edward, that you have such
a reverence for the home of your childhood,
and I hope you may be able to take it and
secure to me sufficient ready money for my
rights in the estate, so that I can go to the
West, and take the younger chlidren, and
yet it grieves me very much that I must part
not only with old-time friends, endeared to
me by tender ties of affection, but that more
than half my children must be left behind:
I know, however, that in this matter I am
right, and my views upon the subject can-
not be changed.”
	The arrangement of leaving the home-
stead in Edward’s hands to be disposed of
afterwards was partially decided upon, and
mother and son sat talking of this and
other things into the wee sma’ hours of
morning, the rain beating against the win-
dow panes, the fierce wind howling and
shrieking without, the old well-sweep creak-
ing, while in the lull, at intervals, the pine
woods sighed in a minor key like a re-
quiem, as it were, for the parting of that
happy family from each other and the home
of their childhood.
	They had spent the Christmas time to-
gether without any particular event of im-
portance transpiring, some gloomy presenti-
ments that might be caused by the knowl-
edge that the home was to be sold and the
household broken up. that was all. Tomor-
row some of them must return to their own
homes, and that alone produced a sort of
sadness, such as we have all of us felt, per-
haps, after some specially happy occasion,
when the reaction comes, as it is almost
always sure to do.
	No sorrow, not the lightest, had ever fal-
len noon Deborah Curtis, yet she had been
pensive and thoughtful during the Christ-
mas festivities; to her. perhaps more than
to any one else, the cloud that hung over
the gathering had seemed dark and threat-
ening.
	That dismal Christmas night when the
wind was shrieking as if in mortal agony,
and as she thought all the household were
fast asleep, she lay tossing and moaning on
her downy pillows, sobbing out every now
and then, “If he comes tomorrow, what
shall I do? But I am not to blame: I did
not say he might come here. Besides, what
will Fred say? He has alwavs been my
champion, my playmate ever since we went
to school together, and I have been so proud
of him, too, and the other girls so jealous,
and now Frank is coming, and declares in
that last letter that he will take no refusal.”
	“Let me see.” and climbing out of bed
she lit her candle, opened her drawer, and
between her tears and sobs, began to read
this terrible letter that was causing such a
commotion in her feelings.
	“Yes, here it is.” and she read: “I am
coming the day after Christmas when all
your big brothers and sisters are there, even
Edward, whom you think will frighten me
out of asking for you and I shall storm the
old castle for my lady-bird, and for aught I
know ‘waft her away on the wings of the
wind.” If I should meet with any resistance


[Column 1]
from these stalwart brothers—I give you
timely warning, and I trust there will be no
fainting or hysterics among the women
folks.”
	“Wicked boy,” Deborah muttered to her-
self, as, shivering with cold and excitement,
she folded and replaced the letter and hur-
ried back to bed. Poor child, she fell asleep
 and dreamed that Frank Lockwood came
with a carriage to take her away and that
Fred Howard snatched her up in his arms,
and would not let go his hold, and then she
woke. The dream was so real that she could
scarcely believe she was in bed in her own
room and the storm still beating against the
window as when she fell asleep.”
	St. Stephen’s day, the 26th of December,
a dismal morning, no getting out in such a
storm, and Deborah was somewhat calmed
when she saw how unpropitious the weather
was for traveling. She tried to summon
courage to speak to her mother, but it was
impossible, her manner seemed so forbid-
ding. The truth was, Mrs. Curtis was so
absorbed in what had transpired between
Edward and herself the night before that
she was oblivious to all things of less im-
portance. It never for one moment oc-
curred to her nor to any one of them, that
Deborah had a lover coming upon the
scene to interrupt their pleasure. Neverthe-
less, he came and very unceremoniously.
	As he had asserted in his letter, he dashed 
up the lane, where the gates stood open, 
really the main entrance for carriages, driv-
ing a span of fine grey horses, and a hand-
some turn-out in every respect for traveling.
The bells rang out so wildly close to the
house that the ladies and children all rushed
to the windows except Deborah, who was
ready to faint before she knew what the
matter was. At the sound of the bells, Ed-
ward was on hand, and seeing a total
stranger, was about to speak, when the
young man jumped out of the sleigh and in-
troduced himself, with the salutation, “I
suppose you are young Mr. Curtis, and I
am Frank Lockwood, from Athol. I sup-
pose your sister has told you about me!”
	“No, I never heard of your existence, but
come in; you’re welcome. Let me take your
horses to the barn. You’ve driven hard, I.
see—a fine team.”
	The horses were taken care of, and Ed-
ward Curtis led the way to the house, but
on entering, with the expectation of finding
Deborah to explain matters, the room was
vacated except the children and babies and
gentlemen guests; the eldest brother opened
up a conversation with the young stranger,
and Edward stepped out to see what was
going on, for from the stranger’s remarks
he had gathered that the young man had
come a-wooing, something after the fashion
of olden times, on the defensive, declaring
war beforehand. He found his mother and
sisters were engaged in bringing Deborah
out of a dead faint, which only seemed to
complicate things in his mind, and made
him think seriously of sending the young
man about his business, but finally con-
cluded not to precipitate matters, but wait
to see the scenes unravel. Frank was very
uncomfortable. Every time the door opened
he expected to see Deborah, but she came
not, and the impatient lover grew weary of
waiting. “What has this young man to say,
fact, no one knew what to say. One after
another the married sisters came into the
parlor and were introduced to Mr. Lock-
wood, but Deborah’s name was never men-
tioned. A child came in and spoke to Ed-

[Column 2]
ward. He excused himself; his sister had
sent for him, and his mother was also in
waiting. “What has this young man to say
who has thrust himself upon us at this un-
seasonable time?” said the mother. “He
has said nothing as yet, except to ask if my
sister told me of his coming”. “Will you
inquire his errand, Edward?” resumed the
mother, with the most perfect composure?
“As you please, mother, but what does
Deborah say?” “That you must persuade
him to go away without seeing her; that she
is not engaged to him.”
	“Then she gave him encouragement, has
trifled with his affections? The fellow is
desperate, a veritable hero of romance.”
	There was no help for it; Edward had
never been in love himself, but somehow he
felt a great sympathy for this daring young
fellow who could face a whole house full of
relatives, determined to conquer them all.
He thought a great deal of his sister—not
exactly his style. She was such a delicate,
fragile creature, but beautiful and gentle,
and so sensitive he could scarcely see how
any man could want her for a wife. That
word seemed to him to imply too much for
one so young and inexperienced. However,
if he must “face the music,” better begin
right away.
	Edward sent to invite Mr. Lockwood to
meet him in an adjoining room, and of 
course he did so, and they talked over the
matter seriously together. Edward found
his sister had spoken truly when she said
she had given him no hope of loving him,
but Frank was one of those men that by
some peculiar fascination compel women in
spite of themselves, to listen and often im-
agine it is true love, when upon serious re-
flection they are convinced it is not the love
that is needed for the daily duties of life. It
passes for the real article in the matrimo-
nial market very often, but when it is put
into the crucible and tested, there proves to
be very little of the genuine material. If
the experience of others could be valued at
its proper estimate, girls would be more
considerate before hand, and when they
made a choice it might perhaps be a wiser
one. It is customary to call marriage a lot-
tery, etc., and very erroneous ideas of love
prevail among men as well as women. For
instance, this happy Christmas was inter-
rupted and the guests dispersed in anything
but gay spirits through the inopportune ar-
rival upon the scene of this young stranger,
who fancied himself madly in love. He
succeeded admirably in creating a sensation
and unsetting the household. The family
party thus rudely broken in upon could not
regain the same feelings of enjoyment and
those who went away with the good-bve
upon their lips felt that they had met in
the old home for the last time.
	The irrepressible lover was persistent and
fascinating enough to ingratiate himself into
favor with the mother and big brother and
finally to carry Deborah away captive (not
on the wings of the wind) but after the

[Column 3]
manner of men, as his bride. Not long after,
the old home was disposed of to Edward,
who, notwithstanding his regard for ances-
tral inheritances, sold it to strangers.
	Those who remain of that numerous fam
ly who gathered around the same hearth-
stone on that festive occasion, are scattered
far and wide. Some who were babes then
are sleeping in unknown graves, having per-
shed on the battle-field; others lie where
stately monuments mark their resting place
and tell of their heroic deeds. But though 
many have died out of the number who
spent Christmas at the old home, yet, nev-
ertheless, the tribe has increased and
strange to state, the fragile little maiden
Deborah, who was the prime cause of the
excitement, has the largest posterity of them
all, unless it be the eldest son. It would be
impossible to tell you the whole story in one
evening, but the old home long ago went to
ruin, though the great, ugly well-sweep is
still there, and the pure water as it was then
has never failed, and the weary traveler
halts on his way to take a drink from the
old well, and the neighbors come hither to
get water when their wells fail. The hem-
lock grove is not yet all cut awav. and the
pines still sigh and moan and shiver, and
the evergreens twine themselves under and
around the trees and shrubs, and the beau-
tiful birds (or their posterity) still sing the
sweet songs that thrilled the hearts of those
happy children in the days gone by.
						AUNT EM.


[Column 1]
		NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.
	For the first time in Colorado’s history a
woman has been elected State Senator. She
is Mrs. Helen Ring Robinson of Denver,
book reviewer of the Rocky Mountain News.
She will take her seat when the General
Assembly convenes in January.
	A considerable number of women have
sat in the Lower House at different times,
but a woman. Senator is an innovation—
even in Colorado, with its twenty years of
equal suffrage.
	In private life, Mrs. Robinson is the wife
of a Denver lawyer. She took a leading
part in the successful campaign made a few
years ago to keep Denver’s corrupt water
company from securing a twenty-year re-
newal of its franchise, and is a woman,
highly respected. Even before she takes
her seat in the Upper House a movement
has been launched to make her president
pro tem. of the Senate, and she stands a
fair chance, as the Democrats are in the ma-
jority. Mrs. Robinson was elected on the
Democratic ticket. In fact, so popular is
she that she ran far ahead of the ticket.
	Only one other woman in the United
States has ever been chosen State Senator.
Mrs. Martha Hughes Cannon was elected
to the Utah Senate some years ago and did
good service there.—Exchange.
	Woman suffrage is to be debated in more
than one hundred high schools throughout
North Carolina in the coming year, as the
result of plans adopted recently by the
State Teachers’ Assembly. The women
teachers also adopted resolutions demanding
that women be appointed to positions on
school boards and on textbook committees.
	“Abigail Scott Duniway, done in her 79th
year.”
	Below the name of Governor Oswald
West upon the proclamation that makes
equal suffrage effective in Oregon, the
counter-signature of Mrs. Duniway, written
by her on November 30, was her final word
in a campaign that has been carried on by
her indomitably for more than 14 years.
	“There,” she said, as she laid down the
pen and the Governor bent over her shoul-
der to place the blotter upon the signature,
“It’s a fact at last.”
	The Portland Oregonian says:
“The proclamation was written by Mrs.
Duniway herself at Governor West’s sug-
gestion, and, with the exception of his sig-
nature and the attesting signature of Sec-
retary of State Olcott, every line upon the
parchment was made by her pen. Before
signing the document Governor West had
her fill out the blanks for numbers and date
lines, so the proclamation might uniformly
be her work.

[Column 2]
	Miss Mary M. Barteleme, for eighteen
years public guardian of Cook county, Ill.,
was inaugurated, Dec. 12, as Chicago’s first
woman judge. Miss Barteleme was the
choice of the judges of the circuit court.
She will assist Judge Pinckney in the juve-
nile court and will direct most of her atten-
tion to girls who come under the court’s
jurisdiction.

	Holland has just had its first suffrage
procession. The Amsterdam Woman Suf-
frage Association lost its president, a pio-
neer worker in the cause and much beloved,
Mrs. Theodora Haver. She was given such
a funeral as no woman in Holland ever had
before. The many equal rights societies
sent banner-bearers and delegates; the bier
was covered with the white and yellow suf-
frage flag, and followed by a multitude of
floral tributes. Then came the relatives,
and after them hundreds of suffragists from
all parts of the country. Preceded by a
band playing Beethoven’s and Chopin’s
funeral marches, the procession wended its
way through the streets of Amsterdam to
the railroad station, whence the body was
taken to Bremen for cremation. The fu-
neral is reported to have made a great fin-
pression.

	Miss Mabel Boardman, secretary of the
American Red Cross, today received from
the White House the insignia of the fifth
Order of Crown, conferred upon her by
the Japanese emperor for distinguished ser-
vice.
	So far as officials here know today it is
the first time an American woman has
been so honored by Japan. The order con-
ferred upon Miss Boardman was specially
established to recognize meritorious service
done by women.
	The insignia was sent to President Taft,
president of the American Red Cross, by
Marquis Matsukati, head of the Japanese
Red Cross. President Taft has written to
the marquis and to the Japanese emperor,
thanking them for the honor paid Miss
Boardman.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MAP
	FOR BOOK OF MORMON STUDY
			By Vincy R. Barker
Prepared Especially for Relief Society Classes
	Approved by the General Board

	Designed to give the student a general view
and lasting impression of Book of Mormon
lands from the beginning of Nephite and Jar-
edite history at Jerusalem and Babylon, Asia,
to their close in America.
	With the arrangement of the map of the
World with the Western Hemisphere at the
right we see at once all the countries and the
leading cities involved in Book of Mormon and
early Church history.
	Because of the uncertainty and difference of
opinion existing in regard to the location of
Book of Mormon points only such locations
are made as our leading Book of Mormon stu-
dents seem to harmonize upon, leaving teach-
ers to make minor locations for their own use
according to their own interpretation of the
text.
	Listed upon the map are:
	1st. Authority for all locations made.
	2nd. Under the name of their respective
countries all the cities not located with their
reference in the text and date of first mention.
	3rd. The Hills with reference.
	Large size 24x35 inch, cloth, mounted, $2.00,
per dozen. $20.00.
	Small size, 10x15 inch, paper, 15 cents, per
dozen. $1.25.
	Special terms to Stakes desiring to place
small ones in their outlines and large ones in
Ward Societies.
		VINCY R. BARKER
1144 Washington Ave.		Ogden, Utah

R. K. THOMAS CO., 
67-69 MAIN STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The most becoming Styles in Ladies’
Suits, Coats, Dresses, Skirts, and
Waists at Popular Prices.	.	.	.
THE STORE WHERE YOU CAN FEEL AT HOME


<Beaver>
<Mary A White>
					WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
		The Organ of the Latter-day Saints’ Woman’s Relief Society.
Vol. 41.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MIDWINTER NUMBER, 1913	No. 5.


CONTENTS.
Sketch of Cordelia Morley Cox......................	33
The Genealogy of Mary Lyman.....................	34 
News Letter.....................................................	34
The Relief Society Teacher.............................	35
Book Review..................................................	40
Genealogical Outlines....................................	40
In Memoriam..................................................	39
Relief Society Reports—
	Granite Stake..........................................	38
	Oneida Stake...........................................	39
	Nebo Stake.............................................	39
Editorial—
	The New Year—1913.............................	36
	Annual Greeting.....................................	36
	Women Past and Present........................	36
	Foreign Letter.........................................	37
	Theoretical Dangers and Real Dangers..	38
	Home Socials..........................................	38
Poetry—
	Crumbling.................................L. M. H.	33
	A Farewell........................Dolores Watts	35


[Column 1]
[image of sitting woman]
SKETCH OF CORDELIA MORLEY COX.
	My parents were born in Montague
Franklin, Mass.; my father, Isaac Morley,
March 11, 1786, and my mother, Lucy Gunn
Morley, January 24, 1786.
	Here they grew to manhood and woman-
hood and were married in the year 1812.
During this year they left their homes of
wealth and comfort for the wilderness of
Ohio, where they built their cabin homes.
It being a quarter of a mile from any white
neighbor, cleared the lands near which later
became the city of Kirtland.
	For twenty years father lived here sur-
rounded by his father’s family, who had
followed him.
	I was the fifth child of a family of nine,
all of whom were born in Kirtland.
	Though a century has passed and gone
the Morley people and the Morley Grove
of sugar maples are still at the Old Home-
stead.
	In the year 1830 the Prophet Joseph
Smith and his wife came to our home at
Kirtland. Our family were soon converted
to “Mormonism,” and here the Prophet
lived during the winter. A warm friend-
ship grew between father and the Prophet
which lasted through life.
	In the spring of 1832, Joseph Smith called
Edward Partridge’s family and father’s
family to go to Missouri to find a location

[Column 2]
for the Saints. A place was found near the
town of Independence, Missouri.
	Here father’s family and the Partridge
family, who had become life-long friends,
in traveling from Kirtland, Ohio, to Jack-
son, Missouri, moved, father giving up his
home, father, mother, sisters and brothers
for the Gospel’s sake.
	One sister, Diantha Billings, was the only
one of his father’s family who joined the
“Mormon” Church. Father never after
had a home of any pretensions, just a place
of shelter for his family.
	He was a willing worker and spent his
time in Church affairs, instead of work for-
his own.
	All the years of my youth were years of
mobbing, and hardships of every conceiv-
able kind for my parents. My dear mother
was left with all the cares of a large family 
while father was thrown into prison; so
unhumanly was he treated that when he
came back to us we stared some time before
we could recognize and call this gaunt man
father. And so it was from year to year,
persecution which increased our faith in our
Creator.
	In Jackson Co., Mo., January, 1832, my 
father cut the ice from a stream and bap
tized myself and two boys.
	I attended school whenever and wherever
had the opportunity, amidst all our mov-
ing, mobbing and driving, until at the age
of sixteen father built a small schoolhouse
where I taught in the summer and went to
school in the winter to a larger school.
	This was at the place known as the Mor-
ley Settlement, where my father was presi-
dent and F. M. Cox and Edwin Whiting his
counselors. Here we lived five years of
blessed peace and prosperity.
	In my father’s, home at this time were
four grown sisters. Our house was small,
but there was room for love, friends and
merriment. 
	A cooper by trade, father’s shop was
adjoining the house. Our beaus being plen-
tiful, they made themselves both useful
and agreeable in the cooper shop; they
would come, and out the barrels and rubbish
they’d send, start the fiddle and the fun
began. We danced how we danced. For
a change, we played chase the squirrel and
thread the needle, sailing the boat, whirl
the plate. Forfeits were taken up which
led to many other games.
	We had dancing and spelling schools 
husking bees, house raisings. At this time
we made fun out of everything, and with us 
it was the one gleam of sunshine for many
years to come.
	Though so many years have passed since
this change of scene, it is with a pang at the
heart and quivering lips I recall them. The
pen and hand fail to paint the emotions of
the heart. May I not pass them by, as well
as the martyrdom?
	A year later, September, 1845, the Mor-
ley Settlement was burned. The labor and
toil of years was ruthlessly destroyed;
homes and stacks burned, cattle taken pos-
session of and driven away. Helpless old


[Column 1]
people, women and children robbed of even
a shelter and the necessaries of life. Oh,
the inhumanity of our own countrymen, for
they left ruin and desolation where had
been a happy, prosperous people. Now
they scattered wherever they could find a
shelter or friend, or a crust of bread.
	My father spent the winter in Nauvoo
and here I want to bear my testimony, no
matter by whom it is denied.
	The Prophet Joseph Smith taught and
practiced polygamy, himself having five
wives whom I was acquainted with. It was
just as much a trial to us in those days as it
would be to this people today. But we
tightened our armor and made ready to
overcome our selfish desires. I have told
you of those sacred marriages in the Tem-
ple at Nauvoo (no need to repeat). But
must say the Father of us all watched over
and blessed us for striving to obey His will.
I am not denying the wavering of my will,
for when you feel the finger of scorn point-
ed your way and know you are against all
the teachings of your youth, a strong faith
must be yours to be able to overcome this
feeling.
	Many were the nights of weeping. I
must have some assurance of a higher
source to be able to go on with any degree
of comfort. I went to bed praying earn-
estly to have the right made known to me.
I then seemed to be one of the multitude of
people who evidently were sorrowing. I
felt that a glorious personage was moving
among them whispering words of inspira-
tion and comfort. Soon he came to me and
in startling distinctness these words he said
“Never change your condition or wish them
otherwise.” Today I am thankful I obeyed
that voice, it was so real to me that I felt
strengthened and comforted.
	In the year ’51 my husband was arrested,
stood trial and his sentence was, one wife
only or leave the country.
	My husband had the courage of his con-
victions and stood up to them, saying, “I
will never forsake these wives and their
little ones, so help me God.”
	But to gain time and to keep peace he put
Aunt Jemima, myself and our children into
a wagon. (This lady beside myself was
known as one of the “sister wives,” she was
one who was dearer to me than one of my
own sisters.) Through the cold we trav-
eled into another country. He hunted for
a house, but could not find a house of any
kind. A stable was found about fourteen
feet square, without doors or windows; no
place for a fire; not a friend or an ac-
quaintance called spiritual wives, looked
down upon by every passerby with sus-
picion and distrust. At this time Aunt
Jemima had two children and was in a
delicate condition, needing a loving hus-
band’s care.
	I had three little ones, the oldest was five
years old. Nervousness was my ever pres-
ent companion.
	Our husband took up the loose boards,
scraped the floor and replaced them. Made
two pole bunks, cut a little wood and left
us alone, yes, alone amongst a town full of
people. Alone when we could not help
but feel that He who knows when even
a sparrow falls. What could we do but
rely upon the Father who as you will see,
knew of all our pitiful condition.
	February came and went, we had made
no acquaintances. Father Cox did not come
as we expected. I was scared, for I knew

[Column 2]
Jemima was trying to keep her trouble to
herself. Suddenly there was a knock at
the door. I timidly opened it after asking
who was there. A lady walked in, an en-
tire stranger to us. Who had sent her here
this wintry night so unexpected, yet so wel-
come, so necessary, for it was not long be-
fore a newborn babe came to that stable
and was laid in its mother’s arms, Feb. 29,
1852.
	Well, all this was just a little too much.
This over, I just dropped every feather and
wept. Oh, but was not this a God-given
testimony; we ever since have felt so. Who
could have expressed a keener sympathy.
He did not send to us an earthly doctor,
whose every look and action would seem
to cut us as a knife, but a poor hunted being
who, like ourselves, must be kept out of
sight, keeping our troubles to ourselves.
	She had accidentally heard that we were
here and came to us or I can only feel that
she was sent and I don’t doubt that she
went her way comforted, as she left us as
soon as her work was done. We have never
seen her since.
	In the year of ’52, three months later, we
started West, reaching Salt Lake City Sep-
tember 28. We then came on to Manti,
reaching here October 4, 1852, and were
welcomed by my father and a score of rela-
tives and friends.
	And though the next twenty years were
filled with hardships and anger, still they
were happy years.
	Everything we had to wear was made in
our home; our summer shoes, our hats, bon-
nets, dresses and underwear, by our own
busy hands.
	I raised my family of eight children, and
now have 49 grandchildren and 86 great-
grandchildren. As my children married
and went to homes of their own, I occupied
my time with other work. I was secretary
of the Relief Society for fourteen years, a
worker in the Manti Temple for thirteen
years, and at the present time I am in my
ninetieth year, having been born November
22, 1823, and some times the question comes
to me, “Have I garnered a sheaf of empty
grain, or will it be filled with God’s plump
grain?”
					CORDELIA.


CRUMBLING.
Who reared that lofty frieze and architrave
O’er western desert fanes? And who the sum
Of untold years have named of hall and nave,
In crumbling ruin? Time is silent, dumb.
Who planned and placed almighty Jove or
	Thor
The thousand pillar’d temple of the East?
And ere its waning what bold idolator
Did worship there, or who did hold his feast?
Where by Stalla’s azure-mantled sea,
The Sister Cities doomed for ages dire—
Lost Herculaneum and Pompeii?
O’erwhelmed by wild Vesuvius’ stormy ire!
Where now Minerva’s far-famed Parthenon,
“Athena’s wonder” that enthralled the world?
Fallen to dust, its glowing beauty gone—
The Grecian’s glory into ruin hurled!
Where grand, unrivaled Thebes and Tentyra,
And their divinities all o’er the plain?
Crushed ’neath the wheels of Time’s engulf-
	ing car!
All crumbling with their gods to earth again.
What famed Palmyra? ’Tis the wild beasts’s
	lair!
Voluptuous Nineveh, so vast and brave?
The Ephesian City and strange “Temple”
	there?
The hooting owl sits brooding o’er their grave!
What Babylon? that fain would heaven amaze?
With Babel’s tower, her walls and brazen bars?
The lion’s whelps cry through her lonely ways,
Where the enraptured Chaldee worshiped
	stars!
What now thy once proud cities, Palestine?
The ploughshare brightens o’er their crum-
	bling walls.
The olive waves above the Christian's shrine,
His temples, palaces and halls!
Crumbling to dust is Petra’s rock-wrought
	tomb!
And Baulbec’s temple—“sacred to the Sun!”
Silent is “Mention” wasting to its doom;
Earth once again Rome’s monuments have
	won.
Crumbling the Aztecs’ glory and their fame—
Thy sculptures rare, Palenque and Copan;
The dream of ages now but dust to scan.
Great London, thou renowned of all the world—
Are they invulnerable when unfurled
’Gainst old Nemesis’ Time, and canst thou,
	save?
Will ghostly shades flit through each silent
	street,
Where he has reaped his human harvest here?
As now within thy famed, crowned abbey west.
The weird spectres sound each mouldering
	bier.
Man hath his monuments; nations, cities,
	states,
Their centuries: to all the same as naught,


Threads spun are wrought and severed by th[-]
	fates,
To be respun again and still rewrought.
Man's monuments are fleeting shapes of fame—
Like airy mists soon fading to decay,
God's still enduring, still renewing flame
Are starry worlds, and ever shining way.
							—L. M. H.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Miss Elizabeth Upham Yates, president
of the Rhode Island W. S. A., has been
giving a series of very illuminating talks
before the Rhode Island Women’s Club on
the “Legal Status of Mother and Child.”


THE GENEALOGY OF MARY LYMAN.
	Mary Lyman was born in Durham, State
of Connecticut. Her father’s name was
Samuel Lyman, her mother was Mary
Mitchell. Mary Lyman married William
Johnson, a son of Dydamus Johnson and
Rheuama Stephens Johnson. William John-
son, the husband of Mary Lyman Johnson,
moved to New York, Gennesee Co., town
of Perry, and died there. Then his father,
Dydamus Johnson, sent for the widow and
child and took them back to Connecticut,
and in two or three years the widow mar-
ried Lorenzo Johnson, a son of Dydamus
Johnson. Then Lorenzo Johnson with his
family moved to Michigan, Oakland Co.,
town of Royal Oak; in 1845 his wife was
baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints.
	Then in 1847 Lorenzo Johnson sold his
farm and took up his line of march West,
and came to Nauvoo, Ill. There he, too,
was baptized in the Mississippi River. He,
with his family, that spring came west as
far as Garden Grove, Iowa. The next


spring he went up to Winter Quarters; was
there one year; then the Government said
that the Saints were on the Indian Reserva-
tion, so all had to move over on the east
side of the Missouri river. So there was
three years in succession that Lorenzo
Johnson had split rails and fenced his land
and plowed and raised a crop to sustain his
family, and built houses for them to live in.
In 1853 he and family came to Utah, and
settled in Springville, Utah. He was called
on a mission to Southern Utah, but finally
settled in Monroe, Utah, where he died.
His wife and family still live there, and his
wife lives with her youngest daughter, Mrs.
Thompson Lisenbee, she being a widow
with six children, but she never married
after her husband died, but raised her family
and all were good citizens.
	Mary Lyman Johnson was well and
active for many years after her husband’s
death. She was fond of reading, which she
could do until within a few days of her
death without glasses. She was a quiet,
patient, lovely woman, and dearly loved by
her family and all who knew her. She took
to knitting bedspreads and knit all her liv-
ing children one each. She had eight chil-
dren, two boys and six girls. Three of the
family are dead. The bedspread that is at
the Fair, she knit when she was 90 years
old, and the photo was taken when she was
90 years old. She died at the age of 94,
at Monroe, Utah, and was buried there. Up
to within two weeks of her death she was
perfectly well and able to knit and read
without glasses.
				MARY A. LYMAN
Bancroft, Idaho.


NEWS LETTER.
	Flushed by the success which has char-
acterized the boys’ potato clubs throughout
the State which now have a total member-
ship of two thousand boys, the Utah Agri-
cultural College officials are now taking up
a similar work among the young women of
the State. To this end girls’ bread-making
clubs in which competition in their ability
to make satisfactory bread will be stimulated
among the girls throughout the State, and
also girls’ flower garden clubs are being or-
ganized in the various districts throughout
the State. Prizes are being arranged for
each of these competitions and the girl win-
ning in the district contest will be given a
free trip to Logan and a course during the
annual Housekeepers’ Conference free of
charge.
	It is presumed that the various local con-
tests will take place simultaneous with the
county fairs, in time to permit of the repre-
sentation of the winning product at the
State Fair.
	Definite instructions as to the rules gov-
erning the contest, how to plant the gardens
and the proper recipes for good bread-
making, can be obtained by writing Miss
Gertrude McCheyne, Agricultural College,
Logan, Utah. The boys can also receive
the required information by writing to Prof.
J. C. Hogensen at the same place.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A FAREWELL.
An aged form has passed my door,
He has crossed its threshold o’er and o’er,
With messages of joy and pain,
But he will never come again.
It is the Old Year bent in woe
His head is white, his step is slow,
’Tis sad to see him, go alone
To the realm of the unknown.
Crown him with leaves of sacred holly,
With reverence, not for folly,
Once he was young, a bright New Year,
But age has brought the wintry tear.
“Adieu well loved child of Sorrow
Live today nor fear tomorrow,
Enjoy the roses while in bloom,
Lest they be scattered o’er you tomb.”
I sadly smiled at the parting form
Fading away in the sleet and storm,
“Farewell,” I sobbed, and my eyes grew dim
For I had prayed to go with him.
				DOLORES WATTS.


[Column 1]
THE RELIEF SOCIETY TEACHER.
Story Read at the Relief Society Teachers’
		Reunion, Mapleton.
	One day while walking through the
streets of a small country village, I was
overtaken by a dear friend whom I had not
seen for a long time. We stopped a few
moments to exchange greetings, then
walked along together chatting pleasantly,
when suddenly I asked, “Why don’t you
come and see me sometimes as you used
to? You haxe no small children now to tie
you to your home. I should think you
could visit a little anyway.” “Well,” she
said, “I should like to, but I’m a Relief
Society teacher now and that takes about
all the time I can spare from my home.”
“Only a Relief Society teacher and no time
to visit?” I said. “How large a district do
you have to oversee?” “My companion
and I have eight homes to visit,” she an-
swered. “But,” I said, “you are only re-
quired to visit once a month and you have
only a very few poor to look after, haven’t
you?” “Yes, we are only required to visit
once a month, but here is my home, come
in and sit and rest a few moments and I
will tell you a little of how my time is
occupied.”
	Being comfortably seated in a low rocker
my friend began: “Yes, as you said, we
are only required to make regular visits
once a month, and there are only a very
few poor in our district, but you know the
Savior said, ‘Inasmuch as ye have done it
unto one of these the least, my brethren,
ye have done it unto me,’ so when I was
set apart as a teacher I resolved to try and
see where my assistance was most needed,
and what good I might do. The first thing
I did was to read the instructions given by
the Prophet Joseph Smith at the first organ-
zation of this Society, so that I might un-
derstand the object he had in creating
such an organization. I found that he said
the sisters could provoke the brethren to
good works, look after the needs of the poor
and perform charitable acts; assist in cor-
recting the morals and strengthening the
virtues of the community, and putting down
iniquity; visit the sick and distressed, laying
hands on them, and administering to them
if they so desired; exercising mercy to-
wards those who sin, letting kindness, char-
ity and love crown their works; for this
Society was not only to relieve the poor but
to save souls also.

[Column 2]
	“After reading the instructions carefully,
I thought, Oh, what a great responsibility!
How can I meet it? And then the thought
immediately followed, By being humble
and prayerful.”
	“I then prayed earnestly for wisdom,
strength and time to meet the requirements
which might be made of me. For I was
only a weak mortal, subject to faults and
imperfections, but with an earnest desire to
serve my Heavenly Father.
	“Well, my companion was a younger wom-
an than myself, with several small children,
which made it difficult for her to get away;
but one bright day I called for her, helped
her put away her dinner dishes, and after
having a few words of secret prayer, we
started out.
	“Our first calls seemed very successful and
we felt quite encouraged. We received lib-
eral donations and kind invitations to call
again. But soon we found that some were
not quite so pleased to see us and it was
almost intimated that we were beggars. Oh,
how we felt. What were we to do? We
must not miss them, that would never do,
unless they required it. We must continue
our visits, but find some way to overcome
that coldness. We must show to them by
our actions, by the spirit we possessed, and
by our conversation, that we have their
welfare at heart, and not merely their pock-
etbook.
	“We resolved to try and make our con-
versations as pleasant as possible; to care-
fully avoid all criticisms; to tell them a
little of what we were doing, and kindly
invite them to the meetings, and limit the
length of our visits to the circumstances
we found prevailing in the home which we
were visiting. After a few visits we felt
that we were accomplishing our desires, and
now they all treat us very nicely.
	“And now, just to show you how our time
was taken up, I will tell you what we did
in one month. We made our regular visit
which took one long afternoon. We went
to the regular meeting to report the con-
dition of our district, so that the Presidency
should know their circumstances; for we
know it would be impossible for the Presi-
dency to visit all the teachers even, to keep
in touch with the needs of the people. That
was another afternoon. Then there was a
family of children where the mother had
been taken away. The cold wintry days
were coming on and their quilts and cloth-
ing needed repairing, so we spent another
afternoon helping with that.
	“Then there was a social given for the
benefit of the Ward House and an abund-
ance of picnic was left. This was divided
among the Relief Society teachers, and next
day we visited the sick, the aged, the
widows and the orphans, and distributed
among them the things which we thought
would be the most suitable and pleasing. A
few days after this a young mother had
several children stricken with measles. She
was almost worn out with watching them,
for one or two were very ill. I had no
small children to take the disease, so I
stayed with her three nights to partly re-
lieve her of so much care.
	“Again, I heard of one of my friends who
had a wayward child and sorrow had come
into their home. I knew the tender feel-
ings of that mother’s heart and felt it my
ditty to go and see her. Not to be inquisi-
tive nor interfering, but, if possible, to drop 
one word of comfort and encouragement;
and I believe that that visit did me as much,

[Column 3]
or more, good than it did the one in trouble.
	“Another in my beat was a young woman
who had only been married a short time. I
knew through circumstances she could not
avoid she had not had a chance to become
very well prepared for the duties of mar-
ried life, or, in other words, of housekeep-
ing and home-making; so I thought I would
call and give her a chance to ask my advice
if she needed any. I found her very much
discouraged. Her fruit bottles would break,
the fruit boil over, the preserves burn, etc.,
and she was almost beginning to think
housekeeping was an impossibility. She
soon asked me a few questions which I an-
swered as well as I could, and kindly gave
her a few timely suggestions. Then after
telling her I would willingly assist her when-
ever she desired it, I went home leaving her
feeling much better than when I called.
	“This required six afternoons, and three
nights of my time, in one month, and then
I could see so much more I would like to do,
that I felt that I had only done a small part 
of my duty, and with only eight families
in my beat.”
	When she had finished her story I asked,
“And what recompense do you get for all
this?” She said again, “Inasmuch as ye did
it unto the least, ye did it also unto me,” and
we are laying up treasures in heaven where
moth nor dust can neither corrupt nor
thieves break through and steal. There is
where we expect to get our reward.”
	I soon left her feeling that I, too, would
strive to have something laid up for the
hereafter, and never again would I be heard
to say, “Only a Relief Society teacher.”
	Now, my sisters, this is not an overdrawn
picture. These, or similar circumstances,
are around you almost every day. It is for
you to see them. To visit the sick, to en- 
courage the down-hearted, to relieve the
poor, to uplift the fallen, to discourage
malice, back-biting, and jealousy, to encour-
age virtue, purity and honesty; to cultivate
and encourage the spirit of love, charity and
union; and assist in rolling on this great
work among the mothers and in the homes
under your watchcare.
	The responsibility is yours, and it rests
with you, as teachers, how well you accept
and perform it. Upon you it depends, to
a great extent, what the meetings are, if
they are well attended and the spirit that
prevails in them; for those who come, will, 
to a certain extent, bring with them the
spirit of the home they leave.
	The officers have been placed over this
Society, not by themselves, but by those
holding the Holy Priesthood, whose right
it is to decide if they are doing their duty 
and are worthy of that position; and it is
the privilege of the presiding officers of each
association, through faith and humility, to
discern the spirit by which every one is
working that holds an office under their
direction.
	You are placed in your position as help-
meets to these presiding officers. Your re-
sponsibility is as great as theirs. On you,
also, it depends if there is want and suffer-
ing among the unfortunate, the poor, and
the aged. You are not only teachers, but
angels of mercy, ministering peace, comfort
and consolation to the broken-hearted and
bereaved; dropping a word here and there
that will gladden the hearts of the afflicted 
and make the world brighter and better for
you having been placed upon it.
				ESTHER HOUTZ.
Jan. 2, 1913.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00 A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop's
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
 
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
is second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MIDWINTER NUMBER, 1913


WOMEN PAST AND PRESENT.
	Here and there in the Bible the names of
women have been mentioned and to those
who have made a study of the Scriptures
some of these are in a certain sense immor-
talized in their minds.
	Eve, the mother of all living, comes first
and appeals perhaps more strongly to all
the world than any other woman ever
known. We of today think of Eve as the
highest type of beauty in the Garden of
Eden, surrounded with the most charming
and delightful trees, vines and flowers.
	Then there is Sarah, who actually con-
versed with the Lord face to face, most
wonderful to contemplate! The Lord made
her promises which were literally fulfilled.
	The poetic mind picture of Rebecca at
the well who gave pure water from her
pitcher to the thirsty traveler and his weary
camels, and manifested her simple faith in
the word of the Lord, sufficient to leave her
father's home and her own country and fol-
low the faithful servant to abide in a distant
land. How perfectly illustrative of the sim-
plicity of the lives of that ancient people!
	Miriam, the sister of Moses, who, al-
though she followed him into the wilder-
ness, did not always yield gracefully to the
counsel of, her illustrious brother. There
was also Deborah who, when Israel was
without a leader, went forth at the head of
the armies and won the battle and judged
Israel forty years and there was peace in
the land.
	Ruth was firm and steadfast through her
devotion to her mother-in-law Naomi. Ruth
whose words ring down through all time
as a motto to be repeated forever:
	“Whither thou goest I will go, and where
thou lodgest I will lodge, thy people shall
be my people, and thy God, my God.”
	Huldah, the prophetess who dwelt in the
college in the temple, who read from the
book of the Law of the Lord, and told the
king what would befall the people if they
listened not to the words written therein.
	Queen Esther who succeeded in overrul-
ing the mandates of the king and thwarted
the purpose of those in power and found
royal favor.
	Those of the New Testament are even
more familiar. Mary and Martha are the
two most famous. We find mention made
of Anna the prophetess who dwelt in the


[Column 1]
temple and went not out day nor night. As
a child the writer recalls the fact of how
delightful she thought it would be to dwell
in a Temple.
	Perhaps it would be considered almost
sacrilege to call a woman a prophetess in
this day and yet one who knew Lucy Smith,
the mother of the Prophet Joseph, can
scarcely think of her except as a prophetess.
Her soulful eyes, even in her picture, re-
veal this fact.
	In what is termed the middle ages, wom-
en were as heroines and certainly they
achieved merited greatness of intellect and
ability even though the customs of that pe-
riod would not accord them the place of
equality with men.
	Hypatia was so learned in the ancient
Greek philosophy that she taught the men
of that time in lectures in the great halls
and temples of learning devoted only to the
higher thought, but because she was a
woman of such remarkable talent and cul-
ture, and could draw large audiences who
seemed spell-bound in her presence, she was
cruelly murdered by an infuriated mob,
dragged from her carriage on her way to
the great lecture hall in the city of Alexan-
dria and terribly abused, torn limb from
limb, and her bones burned to ashes. This
was about the middle of the fifth century.
	Sappho, the Greek muse, the greatest
writer of lyric poetry and song, was born
about a century later. She was exceeding-
ly beautiful, but her life is shrouded in mys-
tery. Research among the archives of that
famous city of Athens have brought from
obscurity her work and a few of her songs,
some of them being only snatches of mel-
ody, have been published.
	Coming down to a later day, we recall
Queen Elizabeth of England, who was fa-
mous for her executive ability. It was
during her reign that a great change came
about for all women of that period. Per-
haps Elizabeth was not a well-balanced
woman, nor was she as wise as she might
have been, yet she had great strength of
character, was an example of courage to
face difficulties and rise to the occasion
when a crisis came.
	Catherine II, Empress of Russia, is an-
other. Her womanly characteristics brought
about reforms and she will always stand as
a shining mark.
	The annals of history have only recorded
a few remarkable women, but in the later
times, when knowledge and higher educa-
tion have become more widely diffused,
many women, both in European countries
and eleswhere, have been recognized as
great benefactors of the world at large.
	Those who are acquainted with history
know of the great works of Harriet Mar-
tineau, Joan of Arc, also of Queen Louise
of Prussia, and of Madame de Stael and of
many others.
	Then Victoria, queen, empress, wife and
mother, whose example of each of these
will live while time lasts.
	The name of George Eliot must not be
omitted in mentioning the great women of
England. She was the greatest literary
woman that England has produced.
	America, ever since its settlement, has
made rapid strides upward in every great
cause for the world’s betterment. At the
time of the framing of the Constitution, Ab-
igail Adams wrote her husband that in that
important document women must be con-
sidered, proving her courage and her own

[Column 2]
wisdom, in thus standing foremost for the
cause of woman’s equality with men.
	After the Revolution and peace was re-
stored, women in America were busy with
household cares, and it was a long time
before great things were achieved by them,
but the practice of slavery in the south and
the abhorrence of it in the north provoked
dissension. A convention was called in Lon-
don and both men and women were sent as
delegates from the United States. The
women, however, were not allowed the priv-
ilege of delegates—could not take their
seats, but watched the proceedings from be-
hind curtains in the gallery. Some of the
men were loyal enough to sit with the
women.
	Out of this circumstance grew the first
woman’s rights convention in America, at
Seneca Falls, New York, July 19, 1848. The
dear old Quakeress Lucretia Mott, was the
leading spirit, being the first woman to
stand on the platform and speak for equal
suffrage. Elizabeth Cady Stanton, then on
her wedding tour, was one who stemmed
the tide of ridicule and opposition. Susan
B. Anthony, a young woman school teacher,
joined forces with the little band.
	We must not omit Margaret Fuller who,
early in the nineteenth century, stood with
the greatest men of that day for the high-
est development of woman.
	In other lines: higher education, temper-
ance, equal pay for equal work, etc., etc.,
let mention be made of Frances Willard,
whose statue stands in the hall of Congress,
Florence Nightingale, and Clara Barton,
whose life-long services for soldiers and
sailors have been honored the world over.
	Julia Ward Howe is considered by many
as the greatest woman of her time, a great
writer, speaker, poet and philanthropist.
Her “Battle Hymn of the Republic” has
won for her fame and favor wherever it
has been sung.
	Susan B. Anthony stands foremost, in
memory as the strongest minded of the
women of a century that has produced
many magnificent characters as examples
of greatness.
	Lucy Stone, whose career as a young
woman was very remarkable, and who
founded the Woman’s Journal in Boston,
over fifty years ago, deserves the gratitude
of the women of the world, for the Journal
has indeed been a blessing unto all.
	Women in the present day, who are do-
ing much in the way of achievement, both
in this and other countries, are more nu-
merous than in the past: Olive Schreiner,
in far off Africa, Ellen Key, Marie Corelli,
Sarah Bernhardt, Mme. Montford, and in
our own land, Caroline M. Severance, Char-
lotte Perkins Gilman, Jane Addams, May
Wright Sewall, Carrie Chapman Catt, Rev.
Anna H. Shaw, Rev. Olympia Brown, Abi-
gail Scott Dunniway, Bertha Honore Pal-
mer and Alice Stone Blackwell.
	The pioneer women of Utah faced all
sorts of difficulty with the courage of the
Pilgrim Fathers from whom many of them
were descended. One of the foremost is
Eliza R. Snow, a pioneer of 1847, a poet,
writer, and a woman of great spiritual
power. Her hymn, “O My Father,” has
been translated into many languages, and is
sung the world over. Zina D. H. Young
and her sister, Prescindia H. Kimball, pos-
sessed in a large degree the gift of healing.
Their names are household words wherever
known.

[Column 3]
	Sarah M. Kimball, one of the most pro-
gressive of the women of the west, stood as
firm for women’s equal rights with men
here in the west as Susan B. Anthony her-
self.
	These women who have been men-
tioned stand as types of others who have
given their best efforts for the elevation of
the human race; philanthropists in very
deed also, standing for purtity and right-
eousness.
	Now is the time for the younger women
to come forth and take hold and they must
not be “weary in well doing.” The way has
been paved through adverse circumstances
and now, in the enlightenment of the world
with all the new advantages they can gain
the goal for which all of these noble charac-
ters have been striving.


THE NEW YEAR—1913.
	What will the New Year bring to the
world at large! Doubtless many strange
and wonderful things—new ideas of ser-
vice and religion, perhaps, new inventions
to lighten labor, to speed the methods of
travel by land and sea, and many changes
to improve the world and its people. Let
us hope it will bring increased prosperity
to the Latter-day Saints.
	Considering the wonderful forward
strides made in the use of electricity, one
could almost imagine that lightning might
yet be utilized and serve some needful pur-
pose instead of only making momentary
displays in the heavens that fill ordinary
mortals with alarm.
	Since the opening of the twentieth cen-
tury one can look forward with intense in-
terest in the anticipation of what is to be
in the years that are fast reaching toward
us with new and strange, even marvelous,
events such as have not been known since
this grand world was created. Man is the
agent through whom the Lord is working
to bring to pass his great purposes, and
though we see the great increase of knowl-
edge and power to handle the elements that
exist, yet we know there is a superior force
underlying it all, propelling, as it were, the
machinery of man's brain and faculties to
accomplish the designs of One mightier than
man in bringing to perfection matter which
had lain dormant, for the use and benefit of
mankind, that the earth may become like
unto the garden of Eden, and man and
woman purified to dwell therein.
	Who could have believed even a century
ago that the elements that actually existed
could have been so ingeniously wrought
upon by man's experiments as to produce
such results as have given to the world
such benefits, such luxuries even, as the most
hopeful never dreamed of in their utmost
expectancy? Mother Shipton's prophecy has
more than come to pass, and in the contem-
plation of what has been done in recent
years, what may we not look forward to
in the near future!


[Column 1]
		ANNUAL GREETING.
Beloved Sisters:—
	In view of the near approach of the 17th
of March, on which date the sisters of the
Relief Society the world over celebrate an-
nual day, it is only fitting and proper to
issue in the columns of the Relief Society

[Column 2]
paper a circular letter of greetings and a
few facts concerning the benevolent and
philanthropic work done by this society, to
encourage the sisters who so willingly and
generously labor. The true enjoyment and
satisfaction that is felt by those who are
engaged in the duties that pertain to their
calling can never be estimated.
	Precious treasures are laid up in store
for those who do the bidding of their
Father in heaven. Jesus said, “Inasmuch
as ye do it unto the least of these ye do it
unto me.”
	The year past has been one of the most
beneficial in the work of this organization.
	From reports of wards we learn that tes-
timony meetings have been more frequent
and these will assuredly result in an in-
crease of faith which is most desirable if
the Saints are to accomplish the great work
prophesied of in the past. We cannot be
too much in earnest in our endeavors to
promote faith among the young.
	A great deal has been given by the so-
ciety during the past year. The famine in
China caused a great disturbance and the
Relief Society was not behind in sending
help. Liberal donations were sent to the
Mississippi flood sufferers.
	Two new stakes have been added to our
number, making sixty-five stakes in all, and
the Northwestern States Mission, with
fourteen branches, has been organized with
a Relief Society president and executive
officers at its head.
	The one serious regret is that the trou-
ble in Mexico has broken up a very pros-
perous stake of Zion. Many Relief Soci-
ety houses erected through the efforts and
exertions of the members themselves, have
been destroyed by the lawless Mexicans,
and in one instance the Relief Society
building used for a stable.
	Taken all in all, there is every reason to
congratulate the workers in the organiza-
tion, also those who contribute means and
sustain the forward movements made from
time to time for the uplift of the unfor-
tunate. The Relief Society sisters are the
ones who deserve the credit and the praise
for along these lines they work day by day,
urging the discouraged to look on the
bright side of life and wear a smiling face
even in trouble, “believing that behind every
cloud there is a silver lining.”
	We are, at any rate, an able army of
workers who stand for right and are eager
watchers for the best methods obtainable
for reaching and helping all classes.
	We realize that the movement that
sprang from one little circle of women has
grown and become strong and vigorous, for
there are over forty thousand enrolled
workers, and it requires more material,
more wisdom, to manage the affairs of so
great an organization scattered over many
lands.
	From year to year the association has
been made stronger, for younger women
have taken an interest and become enthu-
siastic in the different departments—the
mothers’ work, the domestic science and
other studies along educational lines. The
Book of Mormon has been introduced with
maps to explain the situations.
	The genealogical class is a new feature
in the routine of study, introduced during
the last year.
	Altogether these different subjects give
variety and make the meetings much more

[Column 3]
interesting and attractive, thus increasing
the number who attend and benefiting
them in an educational as well as a spiritual
way.
	There is every reason to rejoice in the
growth and excellence and improved stand-
ing of the society throughout the world,
and the outlook is hopeful for the future in-
crease in numbers and in a better under-
standing and knowledge of what is possible
for the betterment of all mankind.
	We earnestly hope that before another
annual day there may be much more ac-
complished than has been during any of the
past years.
	May peace, love and the blessings of the
Lord be and abide with you in all your un-
dertakings.
	Faithfully, your sisters and co-laborers,
		EMMELINE B. WELLS, President
		CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS, 1st Couselor
		JULINA L. SMITH, 2nd Counselor.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


FOREIGN LETTER.
	[With Mrs. Barrett’s permission we take
pleasure in publishing the following letter
written to the president of the National Coun-
cil of Women of the United States, thinking
it will enlighten the members of the organiza-
tion in regard to present conditions.—THE
EDITOR.]
		1 Rubislaw Terrace, Aberdeen,
					December 13, 1912.
Dear Mrs. Waller Barrett:
	In sending you a Christmas card today, I
wish also to tell you how warmly I wel-
come you as President of the National
Council of Women of the U. S. A., and
therefore on the Executive Committee of
the International Council of Women. I
have also heard from Lady Aberdeen of the
much better prospects for the United States
Council, and I wish with all my heart that
under your Presidency the Council may en-
joy a period of fruitful growth and ex-
pansion, and become from East to West,
and North to South, a power in the land
that shall worthily reflect the influence, ex-
traordinary in its kind, which the women of
the States are known to have exerted in
the wonderful development of the States.
Nowhere are the problems of women’s
sphere, dignity, place and economic values
more complex than in the States! Their
variability in one place and another is such
that anything like a common standard of
right must be almost an impossibility. And
precisely this feature presents the call for
a thoroughly organized Woman’s Council,
clear in its ideals, with a committee pene-
trated by the purest and highest ideals,
and yet individually filled with a patience
and wisdom that shall enable them to grasp
the difficulties in the various localities, and
to help the local workers gradually to a
fuller understanding and a common level of
the moral and economic position of women
in society and the State. If I realize, this
difficulty of local feeling even as between
my own town of Aberdeen and the city of
Edinburgh, or of Glasgow in Scotland, and
again in Manchester, or towns like Notting-
ham in England, and again the great chasm
between all of these and London, I can well
imagine what a tremendous problem you
women of the United States are up against! 
My full sympathies and good wishes are
with you, and I should like you to tell your
colleagues how warmly I wish them God-
speed. We know well in Great Britain what
the women of the present day owe to the
insight and courage of the women of the
United States; it is true the traditions of


long centuries held us back here; these are
the mountains we have to lift, but in a way
we know they can and will be lifted, be-
cause they are measurable and known, and
we have simply to plan the best means of
overcoming obstacles which have a certain
uniformity in character in spite of variabil-
ity in detail. But you in America have to
meet a constantly changing meshwork of
human and economic problems. What you
may plan in one place can be of no use in
another. Your mountains of difficulty seem
to me to be making and building themselves
as fast as you go forward, owing to your
steady influx of people and rapid growth of
new communities. Organization, complete
and yet elastic, is the hope of your Council,
and the country whose women gave the In-
ternational Council of Women to the world
is well able to produce an organization that
shall meet even the exceptional difficulties
of the States! I am looking forward with
pleasure to meeting yourself and other
Council workers at The Hague in a few
months. I don’t know where Miss Keys is
at present, but I sent copies of my letter
as Convener of the I. C. W. Education Com-
mittee to you and Mrs. Jameson-Miller, as
well as to Miss Keys, and I shall be glad
if you happen to have an early opportunity
of consulting your committee whether there
is any resolution connected with education-
al affairs that you wish to put forward at
The Hague as suitable for consideration
at the Quinquennial Council meetings.
How are the education and choice of em-
ployment bureaus for boys and girls pro-
gressing in the States? I have had a good
deal of correspondence asking for my ad-
vice from educationists in New York State,
Massachusetts, Illinois, Chicago, etc., and I
know for certain of several schools that are
following the system I started in Edinburgh.
Boston, for example, has been developing
the work splendidly in connection with the
Board of Education.
Ever kindly yours,
MARIA M. OGILVIE GORDON,
Vice President
International Council of Women.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THEORETICAL DANGERS AND REAL
			DANGERS.
	The militarists demand this winter three
or four new battleships, but can conjure up
no fresh danger to justify these. Their plea
is that we shall lose our place as the second
naval power if we do not provide them.
They are infatuated with the glow of a bad
eminence as is a child bragging of his
father’s having a bigger mortgage than his
neighbor’s, or a citizen in peaceful Ohio
that he has more “peacemakers in his hip
pocket” than the feudsman in the Kentucky
mountains. Unlike Germany, our country
stands in no dread of the greatest naval
power on earth with whom we are presently
to celebrate a hundred years of peace and
with whom we can have a complete arbitra-
tion compact the moment that two-thirds of
our Senate will permit. We face no dan-
gers that threaten France or Germany, yet
we are vainly ambitious to keep ahead of
them in the nations’ mad race toward bank-
ruptcy. No nation can make our boast that
“We have never yet been attacked, we be-
gan every foreign war we ever had. We
have no enemy in the wide world and we
are protected by two great oceans.”


Though standing like a giant in our se-
curity, looking at the Continental nations
which in that respect are pigmies, we tim-
idly cry out that: “We dare not lead them
on the path that all must sooner or later take,
but since we glory in leadership we will take
their downward path and go them one bet-
ter.” What matters it to these military
alarmists that our protection from fire is so
slight that we annually burn up seven times
as much as all Europe; that last year 35,000
citizens were killed and half a million
wounded in the constant industrial warfare
in which we give our toilers such feeble
weapons of defense; that every year 600,000
Americans perish needlessly. This means
that forty per cent of all who die are vic-
tims of preventable conditions—conditions
which could be changed if we cared more
for human life than for “prestige.” What
care these scaremongers for the refusal of
Congress to appropriate an addition $75,000
to our National Educational Bureau when
it pays $15,000,000 for one battleship? or
for the fact that Congress has given to the
National Children’s Bureau annually much
less than the annual cost for repairs on two
torpedo destroyers?
	Why all this folly about vain prestige and
supposititous danger in presence of the real
and awful dangers in our midst? Has the
safest country in the world the moral cour-
age to sink its poor ambitions and divert
the new expenditure asked for three new
battleships to saving the lives of citizens
who will otherwise have perished before a
year has passed?
LUCIA AMES MEAD,
Chairman Peace Dept. of
Nat. Council of Women.


HOME SOCIALS.
	It is hard to always say the right things
at the right time and place; and many times
when mother feels in the mood of giving
advice and instructions, children turn and
are not willing to receive it. I am sure it
is a splendid plan to have a time set apart
in the home, to read a little scripture each
day, and a little talk on home duties, and
what we owe to each other.
	That, with our family prayers, will keep
the home machinery running more smooth-
ly, draw family ties more closely, children
and parents will understand each other bet-
ter. And children will reverence home and
parents more. It brings a sweet spirit in
the home.
	Oh, if we would only take the time, and
not get in such a hurry to get through life
that we cannot take time for these little
family courtesies. They will be remembered
by all in after life with greater satisfaction
than anything else.
	If we start in this way it will become a
habit, and we can arrange our affairs ac-
cordingly, just as well as we can arrange
for our meals.
	If we have order and system in our
homes this will not take up much ot our
time, and our little talks will assist in hav-
ing better order.
	Now, if we are seeking for the future
welfare of our family, we will institute this
in some degree in the home.
	If it is impossible through our avocations
of life to have this all week, devote one
hour on the Sabbath should it be more con-

[Column 2]
venient, then one other evening in the week
could be taken as a family social.
	Prepare some nice programme, with
talks, music, comic sayings, readings, sing-
ing, recitations, games, refreshments, lec-
tures, either of these or a number of them
mixed. But let that night be kept for the
family social, and not interfered with for
anything, if it possibly can be avoided.
Father, mother, and each child should all
be there to enjoy this family social together.
It may save many a heart ache, and may
save us from going down in sorrow to the
grave, and our loved ones from going
astray.
	I am sure we will have no regrets for
our efforts in this direction. For it will
cause our dear ones to love home and
family ties more, and not care to stray away
for other amusements. Let us try this,
though we may have to make sacrifice for
it, yet it will pay four fold in the end. Noth-
ing introduced of course but that which is
wholesome and good. We cannot realize
how much we are losing by neglecting
this blessed duty.
	This would be a good time occasionally
to talk over affairs of home life, and sug-
gest methods of improvement that will ben-
efit home and each member thereof, and
each one have a part in it. And thus they
will be more interested, bringing unity in
improvements of all kinds. The same may
be done in financial concerns of the home,
parents and all sharing the burdens to-
gether. Let each member take his part in
these home evenings, saving any little thing
they think would contribute to the pleasure
of the family for that occasion, taking care
nothing gets monotonous. Always keep the
children near you (that is, their confidence).
Never let them think they can draw away
from being close companions of father and
mother. We may be successful in many
ways in life, in fact, everything else, yet if
our home is not what it should be, if our
loved go astray, life seems a failure indeed.
	There are opposing powers to all things
which are good. We have to battle with
them. So do not give up or despair, but
try again.					COM.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		GRANITE STAKE
	The semi-annual conference of the Relief
Society of Granite stake convened in the
stake tabernacle Tuesday, November 19,
1912, beginning at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m.,
President Leonora T. Harrington presid-
ing.
	After the usual opening exercises, Pres-
ident Harrington and Counselors Laura E.
Cutler and Emily M. Brinton, made brief
remarks and desired that the Spirit of the
Lord would attend us in our conference.
	The morning session was devoted princi-
pally to reports and testimonies of the ward
presidents.
	President Ann E. B. Neff of East Mill
Creek felt that the work of ministering to
the sick and needy was a beautiful one. She
gave an encouraging report of the work of
her society and said there was much inter-
est manifested in the “outline of lessons.”
	Solo, “Jesus, I my cross have taken,”
Emily Coultas and Choir.  
	Other sisters to report the work being
accomplished in the local societies were: Is-


[Column 1]
abelle Walters of Mill Creek, Mary A. Web-
ster of Taylorsville, and Sarah J. Lester of
Murray Second Ward.
	Members of the Stake Board—Sisters
Harriet J. Miller and Katherine H. Brock-
bank, expressed their joy and satisfaction in
the labors of the Relief Society and their
desire to uphold and sustain those in author- 
ity over them.
	Member of the General Board, Sister 
Sarah McLelland paid a tribute to the mem-
ory and character of Sister Jane S. Rich-
ards. Nothing more beautiful can be said
than that which was said of her, “She was a
friend to the poor.”
	Closed by singing “As the dews from
heaven distilling.”
	Benediction by Sister Mary E. Porter.
	Conference was resumed at 2 p. m.
	Singing, “All hail the glorious day.”
	Prayer, Sister Sarah A. Turnbow.
	Singing, “Pilgrim’s Chorus,” by the choir.
	Visitors present were: President Emme-
line B. Wells, Counselor Julina L. Smith,
Sister Sarah McClelland of the General
Board, and Sister Julia M. Brixen of the
Y. L. M. I. A.
	The General and Stake Relief Society
officers were unanimously sustained.
	The following presidents continued their
reports: Addie M. Cannon, Forest Dale;
Sarah A. Brown, Murray First Ward; Ellen
M. Sperry, of Waterloo.
	Choir sang “Peace, Be Still.”
	Counselor Julina L. Smith was pleased
with the reports of the presidents, and felt
that the Relief Society work is improving.
Advised the teachers to be gentle and kind
in approaching the backward poor, those
who are reluctant in making their wants
known. Gave an interesting account of her
trip to Portland, her visit to the “Babies
Home,” and the work of the Saints there
in providing clothes and toys for these chil-
dren.
	President Emmeline B. Wells gave inter-
esting reminiscences of her trip to Europe
to the International Council and Congress
of Women, held in London, in 1899.
	In closing her remarks prayed that the
Lord will bless and help us in the noble
work of charity, that we may be kind, and
tender, and loving, and filled with the spirit
of humility.
	Singing, “Let us all press on,” 
	The benediction was pronounced by Sis-
ter Julia M. Brixen, and the Conference was
adjourned for six months.
			PRUDENCE BROWN,
						Secretary.

			ONEIDA STAKE.
	Minutes of Oneida Stake Relief Society
Conference on Nov. 30, 1912, at Preston
First Ward meeting house.
	President L. B. Benson presiding. 
	Singing, “Hail to the brightness,” etc.
	Prayer, Millie Golightly.
	Singing, “If you could hie to Kolob.”
	Roll call denoted 10 stake officers present,
	3 excused, 17 societies represented.
	Lucy D. Parkinson welcomed all present.
The morning session was devoted to the
Relief Society teachers of the stake. Pres-
dent Benson gave special instructions to
them on their duties, viz., (a) making
monthly visits, (b) seeing sick are cared
for, (c) bringing peace and encouragement
to the home, (d) advise, where it is re-
quired, those in trouble, (e) give spiritual,
as well as temporal food, to, all.

[Column 2]
	“Scatter Sunshine” was sung by Lucy
Cutler and Dora Geddes, assisted by the
board. Counselor Hannah Mickleson spoke
to the teachers on their high calling, advised
them to pray together before beginning
their visits, and to seek to magnify their
work.
	Mrs. Nickleson of Logan addressed the
conference. Spoke on her work in the Re-
lief Society, said her family had never suf-
fered in her absence.
	Dora Geddes, Mary Shaffer, Millie Go-
lightly, Margaret Dunkley, Chloe Howell,
and Adeline Lowe, each encouraged the
teachers to do their duties.
	President L. B. Benson endorsed what
had been said, especially the thought of
teachers praying together, said not to refuse
to bless the sick when asked to do so.
	Duet, Lucy Cutler and Dora Geddes,
“Make the World Brighter.”
	Benediction, Sarah Feldsted.
	Afternoon Session—Singing, “Zion
stands with hills surrounded.”
	Prayer, Peter Mickleson.
	Duet, “O My Father,” Lucy Cutler and
Dora Geddes.
	Treasurer’s report approved.
	General and Stake officers were sus-
tained.
	Jennie W. Rallison gave the lesson on the
ninth commandment.
	Congregation sang, “Truth reflects upon
our senses.”
	Phebe McNeil spoke on “Why we should
attend sacrament meetings.”
	Nellie T. Johnson, Stake president of the
Y. L. M. I. A., spoke on the relationship of
her work to Relief Society, asked for the
co-operation of the mothers.
	Marinda Skidmore, Stake president of
the Primary, spoke of the importance of the
Primary work.
	Singing, “Oh Awake My Slumbering
Minstrel.”
	President Benson said that in connection
with the other lessons given the Relief So-
ciety in the coming year special lectures on
moral training of our children would be
given.
	Minnie Geddes of North Ogden spoke on
Relief Society work, asked all to be true
Latter-day Saints.
	President Joseph Geddes said he was
pleased with the work of the Relief Society,
also said a true home depends largely on a
good mother, if our children are guided
aright, all will be well with us.
	Counselor Taylor Nelson said, all organi-
zations of the Church advance the work of
the Lord. He appreciated the Relief So-
ciety work.
	Counselor Jas. Johnson expressed appre-
ciation of the Relief Society work.
	After singing “Praise to the Man” and
benediction by John Larson, conference ad-
journed for six months.
		PHEBE A. M. McNIEL, Sec.
	LINDA N. BENSON, Cor. Sec.
	
			NEBO STAKE.
	Nebo Stake Relief Society conference
held at Salem Ward, Dec. 13, 1912.
	Morning Session, President Eliza J.
Dixon presiding. After the opening exer-
cises, Sister Mary A. Gardner, president of
Salem Relief Society, gave a hearty wel-
come to all. President Dixon responded to
welcome given and said the Relief Society
work was progressing; all the wards but

[Column 3]
two have been visited twice this year by the
board. The reports given by the various
ward presidents were very encouraging, and
show that all are trying to do their part.
	Song, Matilda Hanks and Amy Holder.
	Bishop N. C. Christensen said the Relief
Society was surely a great help in the ward.
	Sister Pierce spoke of the great work the
teachers of the Relief Society were doing;
asked God to bless all.
	Singing. Prayer by Brother William
Gardner.
	Adjourned until 1:30 p. m.
	Conference reconvened at 1:30 p. m.
	Singing, Anthem.
	Prayer, Brother Monk, Palmyra Ward.
	Singing, “An Angel from on High.”
	Minutes of previous afternoon session
were read and accepted.
	Clara R. Evans spoke on the address of
Madam von Mountford, who had been in
the Holy Land, and spoke in an interesting
way of the birth of the Savior.
	Martha S. Kapple said that the way of the
people of the world was to make their own
families happy on Christmas, but the Latter-
day Saints thought of the poor and the mis-
sionaries as well as their own loved ones.
	Song, Mary Lamb, “Silver Threads
Among the Gold.”
	Brother Francis Hanks thought every sis-
ter should know and understand the gospel.
Spoke of the general duties that devolve up-
on all.
	Caroline Roach, member of the stake
board, read an article on Christmas-present
giving. Said it was better to give than to
receive.
	President Dixon read “A Greeting” of
President Bathsheba W. Smith to the Relief
Society sisters throughout the world, writ-
ten some time before her death. Hoped none
would feel Relief Society work a burden,
but would take new interest in the work.
Thanked the people of Salem for their hos-
pitality during conference. 
	Singing, “Praise to the Man.”
	Prayer, Brother George Hanks.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
					JULIA SABIN,
						Secy. Pro Tem.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.
	Sister Ellen McNeal Pedon died at her home
in Torre[-] Dec. 18. 1912. Sister Pedon was the
wife of Robert N. Pedon and the daughter of
Alexander McNeal and Gennett Young; was born
in Darvel, A[-]rshire, Scotland, Nov. 25. 1861. Was
married to Robert N. Pedon in 1882. Became
a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints in December, 1892. Baptized by
Wm. McAllister and confirmed same day by Elder
John McQueen. Emigrated to Utah with her
husband in 1893. Stopped in Logan, Cache Co.
	In 1894 they went to Alberta, Canada, and
came to Torrey in 1899, where they have re-
mained. She leaves a faithful husband and son
and many friends to mourn her loss. Sister
Pedon has been President of the Primary of
Torrey ward for a number of years, and at the
time of her death she was a faithful secretary
in our Sunday School, and assistant secretary
and teacher in the Relief Society, and her place
will be hard to fill. She has now gone to reap
her reward and join the loved ones gone before.
Gone from sorrow, grief and anguish,
Gone no more with pain to languish,
Gone, thy longing soul set free,
But Oh! how hard to part with thee.
RESOLUTIONS IN HONOR OF SISTER
ELLEN PEDON.
	Whereas, in the allwise providence of our
Heavenly Father it has pleased Him to call from
our midst Sister Ellen Pedon, assistant secretary


and teacher in the Relief Society in the Torrey
ward
	Therefore, be it resolved, that in the passing
away of our beloved sister, we, the officers and
members of said association, are bereft of a wise
teacher and a cheerful and loving associate. Sis-
ter Pedon was ever ready at the call of duty, no
matter what her physical suffering might have
been; she carried not her own burdens but light-
ened those of others. The needy and suffering
ones found her a ministering angel in the truest
sense of the word. Her gentle presence filled
her home with comfort and delight.
	Resolved, that we mourn the loss of our sister
and appreciate the worthy example set by her.
	We, her sisters and co-laborers, extend to her
bereaved husband and son our heartfelt sympathy
and pray God to comfort them in their great
sorrow.
	Be it further resolved, that we place a copy of
these resolutions on our records, send one to the
bereaved family and one to the EXPONENT for
publication.
	Mary E. Forsyth, President; Maria A. Pierce,
1st Counselor; Rena Hall, 2nd Counselor.
A TRIBUTE.
	To a dear departed friend, who died Decem-
ber 10. 1912, who was nearly 82 years old. with
whom I have been acquainted ever since Oct. 8,
1868. Always found her a true friend and kind-
hearted; she was a good woman, faithful and
true; a teacher in the 11th ward Relief Society
for many years—Sarah G. McMaster. She was
chosen President in the month of April, 1892, of
the 11th ward Relief Society. She was always
thinking of the poor—what she could do for their
benefit, and on account of ill health in the month
of July, 1907, she resigned her labors. I have
always loved her for her integrity. I was her
treasurer and was so well acquainted with her;
with her kind acts and her loving disposition, and
sincerely mourn her loss.
MARIA RIDGOOD BARNES.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	In memory of Emi W. Peterson, Second
Counselor in the Mapleton Relief Society,
who departed this life Dec. 6, 1912.
	Whereas, our Heavenly Father in His.
wisdom has called from our midst our be-
loved sister and co-laborer, be it
	Resolved, that we, the officers and mem-
bers of the Mapleton Relief Society, do ac-
knowledge the hand of God in this separa-
tion, and extend to the family and friends
our heartfelt sympathy and condolence in
this their hour of sad bereavement; realiz-
ing that we, too, with them, have lost a
faithful mother, sister and friend; yet
knowing that God doeth all things well.
Ever praying that His spirit may comfort
and bless her husband and family, bringing
joy and consolation to their aching hearts.
	May the precepts of her life ever be kept
sacred in our memory as a guiding star
throughout our future existence.
“Mother, sister, thou hast left us,
And our loss we deeply feel;
But ’tis God that hath bereft us,
He can all our sorrows heal.
“Yet again we hope to meet thee,
When the day of life is fled.
Then in heaven with joy to greet thee
Where no farewell tear is shed.”
	Eugenia Roundy, President; Frances
Snow. 1st Counselor; Elizabeth B. Full-
mer, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OUTLINES.
For one public lecture and three days'
work for use in teaching Gene-
alogical classes
Public Lecture (preferably in Sunday ser-
vice) for purposes of explanation and
conversion.
History of the Utah Genealogical So-
ciety.


Other Similar Societies.
	Necessity of Membership in Utah Soci-
ety.
	The Utah Genealogical and Historical
Magazine. Subscribe right now.
	Conclusion.
How to Secure Genealogical Material.
	Membership in the Society. The Library.
	Through Correspondence.
	Through Our European Agents.
	Through Our Library Workers.
	Writing to Home Towns, Parishes, and
Central Libraries.
	War Records, Deeds, Wills, Parish and
Shire Records.
	Genealogists in the World, Exorbitant
Charges.
	Going Abroad.
How to Prepare Genealogical Material.
	Old Letters, Old Bibles, Old Family Rec-
ords of Temple Work.
	Tradition. The Value and Danger of
Family Traditions.
	Modes of Printing and Preparing Gen-
ealogies.
	The Methods Adopted by the Church
Authorities.
	The Chart Family Form.
	Note. This last lesson can be expanded
to five, ten, or twenty lessons. If students
reside in Salt Lake City, Library methods
of securing information would be clearly
explained. For country districts, this would
be unnecessary.
MATERIALS REQUIRED FOR TEACHING CLASSES
IN GENEALOGY.
	Note book, soft pencil, best ink.
	Circulars from the Salt Lake Temple.
	Circulars from the Genealogical Society
of Utah.
	Sample sheets from family records of
Temple work.
	Lesson book.
	English guide book.
	American index.
	Baring-Gould’s Story of Family Names.
	Burke’s Peerage.
	Savage’s Genealogical Dictionary of New
England Families.
	History of Old Framingham.
	N. E. G. Hist. and Gen. Magazines.
	Utah Hist. and Gen. Magazines.
	Blackboard (flexible) with model family
painted thereon.
	Blackboard (flexible) for use in illus-
trating.
	Note. Most of this material is already,
owned by members of the Woman’s Com-
mittee, and would be available for this pur-
pose. Where this is not the case, we would
ask the Society to supply our needs.


BOOK REVIEW.
	The book, recently published, entitled
"The Holy Land," by Lydia D. Alder, is
the first book of its kind in Utah.
	Mrs. Alder has made herself quite fa-


miliar with that historical country, and is
therefore able to speak of it intelligently
and is able to relate facts and incidents that
can be relied upon. The book is beautifully
illustrated throughout, and contains orig-
nal poems by the author upon subjects per-
taining to the orient.
	Bible students will find the book most
helpful in the research of those wonderful
countries, of which we in this far western
land know so little. It makes a handsome
table volume besides containing so much in-
teresting and high class reading matter.
Those who are anxious to visit those far-
off lands should study its pages carefully.
They will thus learn much of the customs
and manners of that ancient race which will
be beneficial when traveling through the
much talked of Land of the Jews and the
Pyramids and Solomon’s Temple.
	We recommend the book highly, and
congratulate Mrs. Alder on the success
achieved, and trust she will find apprecia-
tion here and elsewhere.


Gertrude Atherton and Beatrice Harra-
den spoke on "The Progress of Women"
for the League for Political Education in
New York on Feb. 19. Beatrice Harraden
talked on "The Woman Movement in Eng-
land," and Gertrude Atherton told of her
experiences in California during the presi-
dential campaign.


MAP
FOR BOOK OF MORMON STUDY
		By Vincy R. Barker
Prepared Especially for Relief Society Classes
	Approved by the General Board
	Designed to give the student a general view
and lasting impression of Book of Mormon
lands from the beginning of Nephite and Jar-
edite history at Jerusalem and Babylon, Asia,
to their close in America.
	With the arrangement of the map of the
World with the Western Hemisphere at the
right we see at once all the countries and the
leading cities involved in Book of Mormon and
early Church history.
	Because of the uncertainty and difference of
opinion existing in regard to the location of
Book of Mormon points only such locations
are made as our leading Book of Mormon stu-
dents seem to harmonize upon, leaving teach-
ers to make minor locations for their own use
according to their own interpretation of the
text.
	Listed upon the map are:
	1st. Authority for all locations made.
	2nd. Under the name of their respective
countries all the cities not located with their
reference in the text and date of first mention.
	3rd. The Hills with reference.
	Large size 24x35 inch, cloth, mounted, $2.00,
per dozen, $20.00.
	Small size, 10x15 inch, paper, 15 cents, per
dozen, $1.25,
	Special terms to Stakes desiring to place
small ones in their outlines and large ones in
Ward Societies,
	VINCY R. BARKER
1144 Washington Ave.	Ogden, Utah

R K. THOMAS CO.,
67-69 MAIN STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY
	The most becoming Styles in Ladies’
	Suits, Coats, Dresses, Skirts, and
Waists at Popular Prices.	.	.	.
THE STORE WHERE YOU CAN FEEL AT HOME


[the following is hand written at the top of the page]
Beaver
Ma[--] [-]. White

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Organ of the Latter-day Saints' Woman's Relief Society.

Vol. 41. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH, 1913 No. 6.


CONTENTS.

Hannah C. Wells								

Biographical Sketch							

Roy Ward Relief Society Party					

Relief Society Report—Box Elder Stake				

Editorial—
	Relief Society Day							

	The Legislature							

	Suffragists and Suffragettes					

	The Living Wage							

The Relief Society								

St. Patrick									

Anniversary Day								

Poetry—
	The Loved and Lost						

	March Violets


THE LOVED AND LOST.
The loved and lost! Why do we call them lost?
	Because we miss them from our onward
	road?
God’s unseen angel o’er our pathway crost,
Looked on us all, and loving them the most,
	Straightway relieved them from life’s -weary
		load.

They are not lost; they are within the door
	That shuts out loss and every hurtful thing—
With angels bright, and loved ones gone be
		fore,
In their Redeemer’s presence evermore,
	And God Himself, their Lord, and Judge and
		King.

And this we call a loss! O selfish sorrow 
	Of selfish hearts! O we of little faith;
Let us look round, argument to borrow
Why we in patience should await the morrow 
	That surely must succeed this night of death.

Aye, look upon this dreary desert path,
	The thorns and thistles wheresoe’er we turn;
What trials and what tears, what wrongs and
	wrath;
What struggles and what strife the journey
	hath!
They have escaped from these; and lo! we
	mourn.

Ask the poor sailor, when the wreck is done,
	Who with his treasures strove the shore to
		reach,
While with the raging waves he battled on,
Was it not joy, where every joy seemed gone,
	To see his loved ones landed on the beach?

A poor wayfarer, leading by the hand
	A little child, had halted by the well
To wash from off her feet the clinging sand,
And tell the tired boy of that bright land
	Where, this long journey past, they longed
		to dwell,

When lo! the Lord, who many mansions had,
	Drew near and looked upon the suffering 
		twain,
Then pitying spake, “Give me the little lad;
In strength renewed, and glorious beauty clad,
	I’ll bring him with me when I come again.”

Did she make answer selfishly and wrong—
	“Nay, but the woes I feel he, too, must
		share!”
Or rather, bursting into grateful song,
She went her way rejoicing, and made strong
	To struggle on, since he was freed from care.

We will do likewise, death hath made no breach
	In love and sympathy, in hope and trust,
No outward sign or sound our ears can reach,
But there’s an inward, spiritual speech
	That greets us still, though mortal tongu
		be dust.


It bids us do the work that they laid down—
	Take up the song where they broke off the
strain;
So journeying till we reach the heavenly town,
Where are laid up our treasures and our crown,
	And our lost loved ones will be found again.
—Selected.


[Column 1]
[Picture of a woman above the following text]

HANNAH C. WELLS.
“Oh, thou who dry’st the mourner’s tear
	How dark this world would be,
If when deceived and wounded here,
	We could not fly to Thee!
The friends who in our sunshine live,
	When winter comes, are flown;
And he who has but tears to give
	Must weep those tears alone.
But Thou wilt heal that broken heart
	Which, like the plants that throw
Their fragrance from the wounded part.
	Breathes sweetness out of woe."
	Again it becomes our sad task to record
the death and write for the last time of a
beloved and cherished sister and friend. An-
other devoted and sainted mother in Israel
has gone to her long rest. “Aunt Hannah,”
as most of us loved to call her, lived a long,
good life—more than the allotted time—and
her life’s work was rounded out to com-
pletion. In her home she was a queen,
where loved ones paid her all homage and
the stranger and the friend found alike a
hearty welcome.
	When one has lived so complete a life it
is not well to mourn; but nevertheless there
is a sadness and a loneliness in the heart
with the realization that never more in life
can we behold her, never more clasp the
warm hand nor look into the kindly eyes.
That she is happier is our comfort, that we
shall meet again our consolation.
	Hannah C. Wells was born June 9, 1829,
on her father’s farm in St. Clair county,
Illinois. She died on Thursday morning,
March 6, 1913, at her home, 140 A street,
Salt Lake City. She would have been

[Column 2]
eighty-four years old next June. Her par-
ents were Absalom P. Free and Betsy Strait.
Her father was born in North Carolina and
her mother in Kentucky. They joined the
Church about 1833 and moved to Missouri,
near Far West, in 1836, and were driven
from there by the mob in January, 1839.
Sister Wells’ grandfather, Andrew Free,
and his wife, Mary Pennington, were also
in the Church and passed through the Mis-
souri persecutions.
	It was at Far West that the Prophet
Joseph walked up to her grandfather, whom
he never had seen before, and grasping him
by the hand, said: “Brother Free, you are
a true Ephraimite.” Aunt Hannah remem-
bers seeing the Prophet at Far West, when
she was about seven years of age.
	From St. Clair county, to which place the
family returned from Missouri, except the
grandparents, who died there, they moved
to Nauvoo in 1845, and were expelled from
there in 1846. They made the journey
through Iowa to Winter Quarters, and from
there, in 1848, to Salt Lake valley, traveling
in President Brigham Young’s company.
	Upon this journey Sister Hannah met
President Daniel H. Wells, whom she after-
wards married. There were born to them
eight children, six sons and two daughters.
Of these her oldest daughter, Abbie, and
three sons, Junius F., Gershom B. and Vic-
tor P., survive her.
	Sister Wells’ life was devoted to her
family, though she made several trips with
her husband through the Territory in early
days, and accompanied him on his mission
to England in 1864-5. She later visited her
relatives in Illinois, and as far east as New
York. She also went with members of her
family twice to the Pacific coast. She took
a keen interest in Temple work and offici-
ated for many of her kindred, mostly in the
Salt Lake and Manti temples. She was
called at the opening of the Salt Lake tem-
ple to be one of the workers, holding the
position until her death, though excused
from active labor the last two or three
years, owing to her feeble health.
	She was a suffragist, and always exer-
cised her right to the franchise from the
time it was first given women in Utah.
She was a faithful member of the Relief
Society of the wards in which she lived,
and a woman of charity and hospitality
who ministered to the sick and to the poor
through this society, and always individu-
ally, to those who required her aid. Her
greatest blessing, she often said, was the
gift of faith, which she possessed in a
marked degree. There was never an atom
of doubt that found place in her heart as to
the truth of the Gospel or the authority of
the Holy Priesthood. She knew person-
ally and reverenced all the Presidents and
most of the Apostles of the Church, and her
associates and dearest friends were their
wives and the leading sisters in the Relief
Society, and other Church organizations.
	Sister Wells died in her old age through
the wearing out of her body, but it was
a painful ordeal, leaving this mortal life


and its associations, which she so dearly
loved. She has gone to her reward, which
comprises every blessing ever pronounced
by the Lord’s anointed upon a faithful and
devoted Saint who has kept the faith.
	At her funeral, which was held in the
Eighteenth ward chapel on Saturday, March
8th, 1913, great respect and love was shown
her by the many of her kindred and friends
who attended. The impressive services were
conducted by Bishop T. A. Clawson, the
singing by the quartet, Pyper, Spencer, 
Whitney, Ensign; the prayers by Presidents
J. Golden Kimball and Seymour B. Young.
Inspired, consoling discourses were given
by Presidents F. M. Lyman and Joseph F.
Smith. Many beautiful flowers, were sent
by loving friends who accompanied her
body to its last resting place, in a beautiful
plot of the city cemetery, which was ded-
cated for the graves of herself and de-
scendants by President Rulon S. Wells.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH.

	MARY BOMMELI EYRING.

	Mary Bommeli Eyring was born in Wein-
garten, Switzerland, March 20th, 1831,
in a home of good honest people. Her
mother died when she was four years
of age, but her stepmother, her mother’s
sister, was a good mother. Mary
early learned to work and sacrifice for
others and these qualities mark every act
of her whole life. Her childhood was spent
at the village school, two miles from their
home farm, during the school seasons, and
during the summer she helped on the farm,
hoeing, planting, harvesting. As soon as
she was old enough and strong enough to
move the reed on the loom, she learned to
weave and thus helped the family. She
loved school and was very sad when her
school days were over, but though not in
school she continued to read all the litera-
ture that came within her reach.
	With her friends and her brother’s friends
many long winter evenings were spent with
the papers, magazines and books of the day.
It was thus she first read about “Mormon-
ism” which had come into existence in
America. They read both good and bad,
but it was not until George, Mary’s brother,
met a “Mormon” elder in Zurich that they
became interested in the wonderful news
of the gospel’s restoration in these the last
days.
	Mary and her two brothers, George and
Daniel, were baptized in Zurich and it was
not long before the whole family were mem-
bers of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints. Many were the evenings in
the heart of winter that Mary took the
precious “Book of Mormon” and “The
Voice of Warning” down in the cellar with
her, so that when her weaving was finished
she could read them as she cuddled close to
the warm chimney.
	Like most new members, after the bap-
tismal service was performed, the spirit of
gathering came upon them. But on ac-
count of their espousal of this unpopular
belief they found much difficulty in selling
their home. They finally sold it for a pit-
tance which did not cover the whole of the
emigrating expenses. Mary had saved
enough of her share of her loom earnings to
have taken her to Zion, but she, instead,

[Column 2]
gave the money to pay her sister’s fare. She
saw her parents and sisters leave and she
was left alone to earn her way to join them.
	While working toward this end in Ger-
many, she was persecuted and harassed on
account of her belief, but instead of com-
plaining, she felt grateful that she was thus
privileged. At one time she was taken on
a bitter cold night from a nice warm feather
bed to the cold mat of a prison cell. In-
stead of receiving convicting testimony
against the elders, the officers received a bit
of Christ’s gospel. Finally she was able to
leave the mother country and find herself in
New York City, the land of many tongues,
as she often called it. Here she worked
again to get money to take her nearer her
Zion home. New customs, a new language,
new foods, all were trials in their turn. At
last she found herself starting with a Swiss
company at St. Louis to walk the long trail
of the pioneers. “Hard, why, dear children,
that was the happiest, merriest trip I ever
made,” she often told her children and
grandchildren when asked if she didn’t get
tired after one of those long hot tramps on
the desert trail. She walked every step of
the way and enjoyed every minute of the
journey.
	One evening when the company had
camped for the night and the wagon circle
was nearly completed, in the twilight could
be seen a slow moving vehicle and through
the stillness, the rattle of old wheels could
be heard. Two weary missionaries were in
that wagon, one an old man weakened
through age, the other through fever and
ague. They had come from a mission to
the Cherokee Indians and were on their way
to the Church headquarters at Salt Lake
City. They were glad to travel with the
company and the company were doubly
glad because these missionaries were from
the old country, too.
	Mary traveled beside these men and heard
with deep interest the stories of days among
the Lamanites. She learned to love and
respect and admire Henry Eyring, the
younger man of the two, younger even
than herself, but Mary in her robust health
could never have made people believe so.
	From the mutual love which ripened on
this joyous path of romantic courtship
(would you not call it that?) the marriage
of the two in Salt Lake City some months
after the journey’s end took place. Humble
was the home that Brother Eyring offered
his bride, for he found this country so new
that though well educated in the good Ger-
man schools, he found his education did not
bring bread and butter in this pioneer coun-
try. They lived first in Ogden, then in Salt
Lake City. Through exposure and illness
Brother Eyring’s lungs seem to have suf-
fered, and the severe cold of the northern
climate was hard on them. Therefore soon
after their first babe was born they went to
southern Utah, being among the first set-
tlers there.
	There in that land of unfruitful soil and
little rain, they tried to eke out a living.
Many times for months there was little to
eat except greens made from alfalfa and
other greens, and a tiny bit of flour mixed in
with them. In all of Sister Eyring’s life of
toil this one period, she claims, was the only
real hard one.
	Her babies were coming, and also as
Brother Eyring suffered with ill health, her
loom was the breadwinner for the family.

[Column 3]
She had an indomitable will which made her 
physical strength cower before its might. 
Here in St. George, her five other babies
were born, and with one exception were
raised to man and womanhood. She and
her husband helped with all their might in
that band of pioneers to make this desert
blossom as the rose.

	In that land once so drear
		A city like a tropic garden rose;
	And Utah’s first temple tower did rear
		The Saints’ defiance to all foes.

	How grateful Sister Eyring was when
that temple was built, her life’s work alone
can show. She performed her duties out-
side of temple hours, but while the temple
was open she was always a busy worker
there. From then until her death, whether
she was privileged to work personally in
the temple or not, she worked for that great
cause.
	It was love for this work which made
the call to Old Mexico Hard to heed. But
she went with her husband and again
worked with the pioneers of a new land.
	Throughout her life in the Church of
Christ her greatest enjoyment was in work-
ing for others in and out of the women’s
organizations. Especially has her name and
work been known in the Relief Society.
Both in the St. George and the Juarez stakes
of Zion, she has traveled from one settle-
ment to another as the president of the stake
Relief Society, and many will know and
remember the words of wisdom that she
gave in counsel on these visits.
	Her husband was called to our heavenly
home February, 1902, and since that time
she has been perfectly willing to join him.
In the latter years of her life, thinking each
might be her last, she did not want to leave
her home near her husband’s resting place,
for she wanted to sleep beside him. So
when last July the colonists were forced to
leave their homes for fear of death and de-
struction from the Mexican rebels, it was
hard, indeed, for her in her eighty-second
year to go, leave her beautiful garden of
roses, her loaded vineyard and her comfort-
able home, the work and toil of years, to
travel again, when she had hoped to rest.
	She did not live long, for her ever kind
and loving Father sent for her and she went
to Him January 19th, 1913, in Ephraim,
Sanpete County, Utah.
				Theresa Snow Hill.


ROY WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PARTY.
	The sisters of Roy ward, Weber stake,
held a very interesting party and meeting on
the occasion of the seventy-first anniversary
of the Relief Society day, the 17th of March.
	Several young people helped to make the
program entertaining. Songs were sung by
Emma and Elva Robinson, Melvin Gibley
and Esther Baker; recitations by Lettie
Stoker, Etta Hammon, and Cornelia Wes-
ton, while Leo Lambert contributed a solo
on the clarionet.
	The meeting was presided over by the
president, Margaret Child, who after some
interesting remarks and speech of welcome,
was followed by Bishop Thomas Hollands,
First Counselor Diana Robinson, and Sister
E. V. Jones. All expressed splendid senti-
ments for the work of the Relief Society
and appreciation of those engaged along the
lines of charity.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MARCH VIOLETS.
		“Violets dim,
	But sweeter than the lids of Juno’s eyes,
	Or Cytherea’s breath.”—Winter’s Tale.

Sweet firstlings of the early spring
Sad thoughts and strange to me you bring;
	Yet you speak of happy hours,
When hopes were bright and times were gay
And life seemed but a laughing May,
	The world a world of flowers,
When, yet by sorrow undefiled,
I gathered you, a merry child.

But, as I gaze upon you now,
With sinking heart and clouded brow,
	Your charms are all unnoted;
I fondly deemed your witching spell
Would make me love what once so well
	I loved with love devoted;
My hope was, through your magic art,
Sad care would from my soul depart.

Vain hope! And yet the fault is mine.
Flow’rs bloom and stars as brightly shine
	As when I was a boy;
’Tis I myself alone have changed,
’Tis I have from my soul estranged
	The things I could enjoy,
Ere, at the world’s vile altar kneeling,
I sacrificed each purer feeling.

Ah, bitter is the price, in truth,
They pay who pass their later youth
	In vain and worldly strife;
Who lose in hope of honor’s prize,
The happiness that only lies
	In peaceful, stilly life—
To that prefer the stormy deep
Where ’wild’ring tempests ever sweep.

Sweet flow’rs, whose hue cerulean vies
With the deep hue of seraph-eyes
	That gaze upon the bowers
Where hope and joy eternal bloom
And far around is shed perfume
	From everlasting flowers:
Sad thoughts and strange to me you bring.
Blest firstlings of the dawning spring.
				—A. P., Family Herald.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
		BOX ELDER STAKE.
	Convened Nov. 16th, 1912, Pres. Sarah P.
Stohl presiding. Present, besides Relief So-
ciety stake officers, Pres. Oleen N. Stohl,
Bishop Johnson of Mantua, Sister Sarah
McLelland of general Relief Society board,
Sisters Sarah M. Taylor, Goddard, Jost, and
Coles of the Ogden stake Relief Society.
	Singing “Did You Think to Pray.” Open-
ing prayer by Sister Sophia Jensen. Sing-
ing by the Relief Society choir, “Angry
words, oh let them never.” Roll call showed
two hundred and fifty present. Minutes of
previous forenoon conference read and ap-
proved.
	Pres. Sarah P. Stohl was pleased to see
so many sisters out this morning, and was
very happy to have so many visitors with
us; said we hoped to make this the most
profitable conference we had yet had. May
the Lord bless us with His holy spirit to-
day.
	Sister Julia A. Richards gave a good talk
on genealogy; thought it very necessary to
keep a record of our families; said it was a
work in which there ought to be more in-
terest taken; thought if we wanted our chil-
dren to take interest in this work we would
have to take interest ourselves; said she
thought it was a work which draws out our
love for our relatives and one another. May
the Lord bless all.
	Sister Daisy Madsen gave a report of her
labors in the mission field; said she worked
in the Relief Society in Chicago, where they

[Column 2]
had quite a large society; thought if the
sisters here had the difficulties the sisters
have in the world we would appreciate the
work much better. Reported the work in
Bloomington, Ill.; said the sisters have the
spirit of the Lord with them when they
meet; spoke of the sacrifices some of them
have to make when they join the Church,
and could contrast the difference between
those who had been raised in the gospel and
those who had not; gave some of her ex-
perience in tracting; said her heart was full
of gratitude for the little she had done in
the Relief Society; paid a tribute to the
mothers; said if every Latter-day Saint
would live up to the requirements made of
her, we would be a better example to the
people.
	Pres. Agnes Owens reported the Willard
Relief Society, also Pres. Annie Peters re-
ported the Perry association. The choir
sang the selection, “Daughters of Zion.”
	Sister Sarah McLelland of the General
Board said it was with very much pleasure
she came to visit this conference, and give
the greeting of Sister Wells to the sisters
here; referred to her laboring in the mission
field, with some of the sisters from this
stake, and knew them to be good worthy
sisters, whom she had learned to love; did
not wonder at their goodness in being as-
sociated with such good mothers; had very
much enjoyed the spirit here this morning,
and the good attendance; spoke in
regard to the temptations that are before
our children, and that they did need the
faith and prayers and counsel of the fathers
and mothers, that they may retain the faith.
Referred to genealogical work, and her priv-
lege of visiting the Temple at St. George;
said a few words to the teachers, and said
any position that you hold is worthy of your 
best efforts.
	Sister Coles of the Ogden stake was very
pleased that our president had been kind 
enough to invite them to attend this confer-
ence; had been well paid for coming, in
listening to the talks of the sisters; spoke on 
genealogy work, was very much impressed
with this work, and the greatness of it, and
how the spirit of Elijah was working with
the people of the world in this direction;
her whole heart and soul was in this Relief
Society work.
	Pres. Sarah P. Stohl invited all the sisters
to remain and have lunch.
	Singing, “Oh God, we raise to Thee.”
	Prayer by Bishop Johnson.
	2 p. m.—Singing, “We Thank Thee, O
God, for a Prophet.” Opening prayer by
Bro. W. C. Horsley. Singing by choir,
“Sweet is the Work.” Minutes of previous
afternoon conference read and approved.
	Pres. Sarah P. Stohl was pleased to see
such a good congregation this afternoon,
and hoped all would be able to hear.
	A paper on “The Ideal Home” was given
by Sister Minnie H. Jensen.
	Sister Sevena Madsen gave a report of
her labors in the Northern States Mission.
It had been her privilege to bear her testi-
mony first in a Relief Society meeting. It
was a pleasure to go and do all she could to
assist in Relief Society work; they studied
the “Parent and Child;” was transferred
from Chicago to Des Moines; they had a
mothers’ class there and studied the prin-
ciples of the gospel; reported the work at
Council Bluffs; reported her visit with Pres.

[Column 3]
Horsley and others at the Park Valley and
Rosette wards, this stake; was very much
impressed with the visit.
	Duet and chorus by the choir, “Truth Re-
flects Upon Our Senses.”
	Dr. R. A. Pearse gave a talk on “Public
Sanitation,” and how our committees can
be a help to the Board of Health; spoke on
the inspection of school children for the eye,
ear and throat trouble, and the detriment
these defects were to the child through life;
spoke on the milk supply, and to watch for
contagious diseases; gave ways of keeping
down disease germs; said the people should
demand certain laws that are for the best
good of the people.
	Pres. Sarah M. Taylor of the Ogden
stake was very thankful for the invitation to
come to this conference; had enjoyed it very
much; spoke in regard to the small attend-
ance of young mothers, also in regard to
the work of the teachers; gave a brief report
of the work done in the Ogden stake; was
pleased with the talk on sanitation; 
thought how necessary it was for us
to be organized that we may carry on this
work, and thought we could plan our home
work so that we could get out to Relief
Society meeting; said a few words on gene-
alogical work, also on the history of the
Pioneers. Prayed that the spirit of the
Lord would rest upon us in such a way that
we will do our duty.
	Sisters Daisy and Sevena Madsen ren-
dered a duet, entitled, “God is Love.”
	Sister Sarah McLelland said we are
always glad to have the priesthood with us,
as it always has its good influence. The
paper on “The Ideal Home” and the talk on
sanitation had been very good; paid a trib-
ute to the choir, and had enjoyed the beau-
tiful singing; said there was such a broad
field for the Relief Society; felt that the key-
note for the future was in what Pres. Joseph
F. Smith had said in the last semi-annual
conference in regard to setting our aim 
high, and in regard to immorality in dress;
spoke on honoring the Sabbath day, form-
ing of habits, card playing, and cigarette
smoking; thought if we prayed for those
boys who do these things, the Lord would
help us; spoke on the great work of women,
and felt there was not another people who
had as much to live for as the Latter-day
Saints. May God bless you in your work in
this part of the Lord’s vineyard.
	Stake Pres. Oleen N. Stohl felt the most
important thing before us now was to im-
press our children with faith; thought we
ought to talk more to them, and speak more
of the beauties of the gospel; spoke of the
receiving of the Holy Ghost and the bless-
ing s that follow it; the mothers taking
more interest in the Parents’ classes in the
Sunday School, and participating in the
lessons taught there; felt to ask a
blessing upon the mothers and said they
could do much in instilling good principles
in the lives of our children.
	Pres. Sarah P. Stohl felt we had had
an enjoyable time, together, and thanked
the sisters who had visited us and given us
such good talks and counsel; felt we ought
to be friendly and neighborly.
	By request, the choir sang “Daughters of 
Zion.”
	Benediction by Sister Emelia D. Madsen.
			ANNIE H. LITTLEWOOD,
						Stake Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,	-	MARCH, 1913


RELIEF SOCIETY DAY.
	The 17th of March is now pretty well
conceded to be Relief Society Day through-
out all Zion. Scarcely a ward or branch
of the Church but on that day holds
a festival of some kind. It may be a party,
a concert, a meeting or a feast, at all events
it is a day of rejoicing. “I now turn the key
for woman,” were the ever memorable
words uttered by the Prophet Joseph Smith
when on the morning of March seventeen,
eighteen hundred and forty-two he organ-
ized the Relief Society. There were present
eighteen women and three men in a room
over the Nauvoo store called the Masonic
Hall, when the prophet uttered the strange
sentence. The society had been duly organ-
ized with a president, two counselors, a sec-
retary, assistant secretary and treasurer; the
name had been decided upon and some dis-
cussion as to the work to be performed, when
Joseph proceeded to give instruction and in
a brief way outline the duties of the society,
during which instruction the words above
quoted were uttered. Remember, in eigh-
teen forty-two not a college in the world
had opened its doors to women. There were
no clubs, societies or organizations of wo-
men any where. Women’s education was
almost entirely along lines of fine accom-
plishments such as fitted her to grace a ball
room or a family parlor but to unfit her to
meet life and its issues without the aid
of man to lean upon. She was trained
much on the theory of the clinging vine and
hothouse notion and not at all fitted for
the strength of self-support or the throes of
adversity; all of which training is charm-
ing and quite sufficient when a sturdy oak
in the shape of a prosperous well-disposed
husband can be guaranteed for ever and for-
ever. But alas for the wars and other con-
ditions that hew down the sturdy oaks and
leave mothers, wives, sweethearts to stand
and fight alone life’s battles!
	Glance back seventy-one years; what a
marvelous change for woman—professors,
doctors, lawyers, bachelors of art, literature,
science: states women, police women, may-
ors, members of city councils, juvenile
judges, and numerous other positions held
by woman while in matters of education
she claims her place on the same basis as
her brother, the basis of intellectuality.
	The key was indeed turned for woman.
That glorious thought vibrated throughout


the earth, over mountain and sea, and the
daughters of the universe have received its
benediction. Written words could no more
tell the magnificent work of the members of
the Relief Society than they could describe
the perfume of a flower or the song of the
meadow lark, for like ministering angels
they comfort the sorrowful, relieve the dis-
tressed, feed the hungry, clothe the naked,
wait upon the sick, relieve the distressed,
scattering glad news and cheer along their
daily walk, giving in the true Christian
spirit, letting not the left hand know what
the right hand doeth.
	One sweet day of celebration and re-
membrance is surely and justly theirs, the
seventeenth of March, Relief Society Day.
		ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


[Column 1]
		THE LEGISLATURE.
	The tenth session of the Utah legislature
has closed and for the fourth time since
statehood women took part with men in the
framing of the laws.
	There have been all together nine women
elected to the legislature of this state; more
than any other state has had and foremost
of all the states in such procedure.
	Very much has been published this past
winter in the different magazines about Col-
orado’s woman senator, claiming that Mrs.
Robinson of that state is the first woman in
the United States to hold that position; and
it has been with some surprise that we have
noted the press of Utah has not contra-
dicted the statement, when it is well known
that in 1897, Dr. Martha Hughes Cannon
was elected on the Democratic ticket to the
legislature, as state senator, and the same
year Mrs. LaBarthe was elected state repre-
sentative. The next session Mrs. Alice M.
Horne of Salt Lake City and Mrs. Anderson
of Ogden were elected representatives, while
two years later Mrs. Coulter of Ogden
graced the lower house with her presence.
After a lapse of five years women came once
more to the front in this connection and the
result was the election in 1912 of five women
on the state ticket, one presidential elector
and four state representatives. The elector,
Mrs. Margaret Zane Witcher; Dr. Jane W.
Skolfield, Mrs. Anna H. King, Mrs. Edythe
Ellerbeck Read and Mrs. Annie Wells Can-
non, representatives. In the beginning of
the session Mrs. Read, who had been ill all
winter, died without even qualifying, and
the women felt they had sustained not only
a severe loss in companionship but the loss
of an able and brilliant co-laborer in the
many lines of their work.
	That the legislature just closed has been
a memorable one for some splendid work is
recognized as a review of the measures
passed will testify.
	The interests of the state at large were
well considered, and while roads and
bridges, and cattle and sheep, and wild ani-
mals and irrigation projects, and revenue
and taxation, mines and smelters and dif-
ferent industries, fish and game, all received
much attention, there was also more thought
and time given to the educational interests
of the state and more splendid measures en-
acted along that line than any previous leg-
slature; also considerable attention was
given to social legislation, and while all the
measures along this line were not success-
ful, many of them were. Among these lat-
ter were the widowed mothers’ pension and

[Column 2]
joint guardianship, the minimum wage, the
woman deputy, the widows’ property tax
exemption bills, for all of which the women
worked most earnestly, also the new juve-
nile court law, which is a most excellent
measure. It creates a system of juvenile
court judges throughout the state, adding
greatly to the efficiency and support of an
already admirable work.
	That some worthy measures did not suc-
ceed is due not so much to a lack of earnest
work as perhaps a lack of knowledge on the
part of some of the legislators. New ideas
require, like other things, time to grow, but
when the seed is once sown the plant is
pretty sure to thrive and those things hoped
for this time will, we trust, be realized the
next.
	For the first time in the history of the
state the legislature adjourned in the allotted
sixty days, a precedent which it is hoped
other sessions will follow.
						A. W. C.


SUFFRAGISTS AND SUFFRAGETTES.
	It seems almost impossible for the public
to distinguish the difference between the
two organizations of women known as the
Suffrage organization and the Suffragette
society.
	The first, the suffragists, is that notable
body of women who have firmly but quietly
and decisively carried on an educational
campaign for the right of franchise; a
noble and notable army of women with live
leaders like Susan B. Anthony, Elizabeth
Cady Stanton, Lucretia Mott and others,
who have held congresses and conventions
in nearly all the large cities of the world;
who have proclaimed their gospel of equal
suffrage from the platform and through the
press but have never resorted to any dem-
onstration beyond the dignity of the most
refined, although at times they have them-
selves been boisterously assailed and most
unkindly and unjustly ridiculed and mis-
represented through the press.
	The second, the suffragettes, are a mili-
tant organization of women who endeavor
to gain the right of franchise through force
rather than education, through demand
rather than persuasion; claiming that what
is the right of men is equally the right of
women and needs no argument.
	That the end hoped for is the same need
not imply that either organization neces-
sarily justifies the other in its mode of pro-
cedure. Whatever the suffragettes may
think of the educational plan, it is quite
certain the suffragists do not approve of
the militants when they go so far as to
destroy property, threaten life, interfere
with the mail and incite to panic and riot.
The law is the law and when one breaks a
law, man or woman, then is he or she sub-
ject to the penalty of the offense. It is this
misunderstanding among the masses of the
people, this not being able to distinguish be-
tween the two, this thinking that if a woman
wants to vote she must necessarily be a
militant law-breaker and window smasher,
that has retarded and hurt the suffrage
cause more than anything else. In all prob-
ability it was this same misunderstanding
which caused the trouble in Washington
during the suffrage parade the day before
President Wilson’s inauguration. The lower
element of the city, the hoodlums and igno-
rant masses, assailed without resistance from


a likewise ignorant police force, a most rep-
resentative and intelligent body of AMerican
women and not only destroyed the effect of
a classical and beautiful procession but in-
jured their bodies and insulted their souls. 
	For months preparations were being
made for this procession. Letters had been
written to the prominent organizations of
every state in the Union. The designer’s
art had been called into service for unique
floats and telling costumes. Banners, flags
and pennants had been painted and em-
broidered. Horses, carriages and automo-
biles had been engaged, while bands and
drum corps had been making ready for some
time. An imposing and magnificent array
which might have told in symbol to the
people gathered at the capital from all over
the United States for the inaugural cere-
monies, something of the numerical and in-
tellectual strength of the suffrage cause,
had not that brutal, ignorant, seething mass
of humanity been allowed to break the ranks
and scatter and hurl the columns of march-
ing women into confusion. Such proceed-
ings are a shame to American manhood and
especially to a city government which can
offer no protection when protection most is
needed. It is to be hoped that the investiga-
tion into the inaction of the police depart-
ment will be thorough and the findings will
be adequate for such dereliction. The suf-
frage cause is advancing at any rate stead-
ily and surely, and no amount of brutal and
ignorant opposition can stop the progress of
so just and good a movement. 
					A. W. CANNON.


WOMAN ’ S EXPONENT.


THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
	(Copied from the Original Record.)
	ELIZA R. SNOW, SECRETARY. 
	By invitation of the President of the
Church, a number of sisters convened in
the Masonic Lodge Room on the 17th of
March, 1842. President Joseph Smith,
Elders John Taylor and Willard Richards
were present. 
	President Smith stated that the meeting
was called for the purpose of making more
complete the organization of the Church,
by organizing the women in the order of
the Priesthood. 
	John Taylor was called to the chair and
Willard Richards acted as secretary. Af-
ter singing and prayer a vote was taken
to know if all were satisfied with each sis-
ter present, and willing to acknowledge
them in good fellowship and admit them
to all the privileges of the institution about
to be organized. All being satisfied, the
names of those present were taken as fol-
lows:
	Emma Smith, Martha Knight, Elvira A. 
Cowles, Sarah M. Cleveland, Phebe Ann
Hawkes, Margaret A. Cook, Desdemona
Fulmer, Elizabeth Ann Whitney, Sarah M. 
Kimball, Elizabeth Jones, Leonora Taylor,
Eliza R. Snow, Sophia Packard, Bathsheba
W. Smith, Sophia Robinson, Philinda Her-
rick, Phebe M. Wheeler, Sophia R. Marks. 
	President Smith then explained some of
the duties that would devolve on members
of the Society, said they could provoke the
brethren to good works, look after the
needs of the poor, and perform charitable
acts. 
	Woman must assist in correcting the mor-
als, and strengthening the virtues of the
community. Said it is now in order for the
sisters to elect a President to preside over
the Society and let her choose two coun-
selors to assist in the duties of her office. 
He would ordain them and let them pre-
side just as the Presidency preside over
the Church, and if they needed his instruc-
tion, they could ask and he would be pleased
to give it from time to time. Let the Pres-
idency serve as a constitution and their de-
cisions become precedents for you to act
upon.
	If officers are wanted to carry out the
designs of the institution, let them be ap-
pointed and set apart as Teachers, Deacons,
etc., are among us. 
	Elizabeth A. Whitney moved and So-
phia Packard seconded the motion that Em-
ma Smith be elected President of the So-
ciety; the vote was put by the chairman
and pronounced unanimous. 
	The President Elect made choice of Sar-
ah M. Cleveland and Elizabeth Ann Whit-
ney as her counselors. 
	Eliza R. Snow was appointed secretary,
and Phebe M. Wheeler assistant secretary,
and Elvira A. Cowles, treasurer. 
	President Joseph Smith read the revela-
tion to Emma Smith, from the Book of
Doctrine and Covenants, and stated that
she had been ordained at the time the reve-


[Column 1]
lation was given to expound the Scriptures,
to teach, etc. He then read Scriptures to
show that an elect lady is one elected to
preside.
	By request of President Joseph Smith,
Apostle John Taylor ordained Sarah M.
Cleveland and Elizabeth Ann Whitney to be
counselors and assist President Emma
Smith in the duties of her office and share
in the blessings pertaining thereto.
	He then confirmed on Emma Smith her
former ordination, and blessed her to be a
mother in Israel, a pattern of virtue, and
to possess all the qualifications necessary
to enable her to preside with dignity and
give such instruction as may be requisite
in her calling as an Elect Lady.
	Elder Taylor vacated the chair and Em-
ma Smith and her counselors took the stand.
	A lengthy discussion followed on the
question, “What shall the Society be
called?” Mrs. Cleveland and Whitney ad-
vocated the appropriateness of the name Re-
lief Society. John Taylor and Joseph
Smith spoke in favor of the word Benevo-
lent. Emma Smith and E. R. Snow ar-
gued in favor of Mrs. Cleveland’s choice.
The gentlemen withdrew their objection and
a motion to adopt the name Relief Society
was unanimously carried.
	President Joseph Smith then said, “I now
declare this Society organized with Presi-
dent and counselors. All who shall here-
after be admitted must be free from cen-
sure and admitted by vote.” President Jo-
seph Smith laid down a five dollar gold
piece to commence a Relief Society fund,
and said, “What I do hereafter for char-
ity I shall do through this society.” Sarah
M. Cleveland gave 12 1/2  cents; Sarah M.
Kimball $1.00; Emma Smith, $1.00; Eliza-
beth Ann Whitney, 50 cents; Willard Rich-
ards, $1.00; John Taylor, $2.00.
	At the third meeting of the Society,
March 31st, President Joseph Smith said
the members of the Society must act in
concert, or nothing can be accomplished.
To move acording to the ancient order of
the Priesthood this must be a select So-
ciety, separate from the evils of the world.
	Sixth meeting, April 28th, said he was
present to speak upon the Priesthood; as
his instructions were intended only for
members of the Society, he wished those
not members to withdraw. After which
he called attention to the 12th chapter of
Corinthians, “Now concerning spiritual
gifts,” etc., said the passage which reads,
“No man can say that Jesus is the Lord
but by the Holy Ghost,” should be trans-
lated, “No man knows,” etc. Continued the
reading of the chapter, and gave instruc-
tions respecting the different offices and the
necessity of every individual acting in the
place allotted to him or her, and filling the
office to which they were appointed. 
	Spoke of the disposition of some to con-
sider the lower offices in the Church dis-
honorable and to look with jealous eyes on
the position of others; said it was the non-
sense of the human heart, to aspire to posi-
tions not appointed of God, that it was bet-
ter for individuals to magnify their respec-
tive callings and wait patiently till God
shall say to them, “Come up higher.” Said
it was talked by members of the Society
that some were not doing right in laying
hands on the sick. If they had common
sympathy, they would rejoice that the sick
could be healed. The time had not been
before when these things could be in their

[Column 2]
proper order. The Church is not now or-
ganized in its proper order and cannot be
until the temple is completed. He referred
to the commission given to the ancient
apostles, “Go ye into all the world,” no
matter who believes, these signs, such as
healing the sick, casting out devils, should
follow all that believe, whether male or fe-
male.
	If the sisters have faith to heal the sick,
let them do so, and let the good work roll
on. It is no sin for anybody to administer
to the sick that has faith, or if the sick
have faith to be healed by the administra-
tion.
	Reproved those that were disposed to
find fault; spoke at some length on the
difficulties he had had to surmount ever
since the organization of the Church, on ac-
count of aspiring men; said the same as-
piring disposition will be in this Society
and must be guarded against.
	As he had the opportunity he would in-
struct the Society how to act according to
the will of God. He did not know that he
should have many opportunities of teach-
ing them, they were going to be left to
themselves, they would not long have him
to instruct them, the Church would not
have his instruction long and the world
would not be troubled with him a great
while, according to his prayer God had ap-
pointed him elsewhere.
	The congregation was melted to tears.
	He exhorted the sisters to sustain with
their confidence, their faith and their
prayers, those whom God had appointed to
lead. Said the keys are about to be given
to you, that you may be able to detect any-
thing false, as readily as the Elders. If
members of the Society become corrupt, you
must deal with them; the sympathies of the
heads of the Church have induced them to
bear with those that are corrupt, in conse-
quence of which all become contaminated;
you must put down iniquity and by your
good example provoke the Elders to good
works.
	If you do right there is no danger of go-
ing too fast, resist evil and there is no dan-
ger, neither God, man, angels or devils can
condemn those that resist everything that is
evil. As well might the devil seek to de-
throne Jehovah as that soul that resists
everything evil. You are now placed in a
situation where you can act according to
those sympathies which God has planted in
your bosoms. If you live in accord with
your privileges, angels cannot be restrained
from being your associates. Women, if
they are pure and innocent, can come into
the presence of God. If we would come
into the presence of God we must be pure.
The devil has great power, his ways are de-
ceptive. Do not be contentious, but let the
weight of innocence be felt, which is more
mighty that a millstone hung about the
neck. Meekness, love, purity, these are the
things that should magnify us.
	Iniquity must be purged out, then the
vail will be rent, and the blessings of heaven
will flow down.
	After this instruction you will be more
responsible, it is an honor to save your-
selves, all are responsible for themselves.
	He then read the 13th chapter of Corin-
thians. “Though I speak with the tongues
of angels,” etc.; said do not be limited in
your views with regard to your neighbors’
virtues, do not think yourselves more right-

[Column 3]
eous than others. You must enlarge your
souls towards others, if you would do like
Jesus and carry your fellow creatures to
Abraham’s bosom. He had manifested
long-suffering and we must do the same.
Said, “Though we have the spirit of proph-
ecy,” etc. Though one should become
mighty and do great things, overturn
mountains, and then turn to do that which
is evil, all former deeds would not save
them, but they would go to destruction. As
you increase in innocence, virtue and good-
ness, let your hearts expand, let them be
enlarged towards others; you must be long
suffering and bear with the faults and er-
rors of mankind. How precious the souls
of men! The Society is to get instruction
through the order which God has estab-
lished, through the medium of those ap-
pointed to lead, and I now turn the key to
you in the name of God, and this Society
shall rejoice and knowledge and intelli-
gence shall flow down from this time; this
is the beginning of better days for you.
	When you go home never give a cross
word, but let kindness, charity and love
crown your works. Do not envy sinners,
exercise mercy towards them.
	Let your administrations be confined
mostly to those around you. As far as
knowledge is concerned it may extend to
all the world. But your administrations
should be confined to the circle of your
acquaintance, and more especially the mem-
bers of the Society. Those ordained to
lead the Society are authorized to appoint
officers as the circumstances shall require.
	If any have a matter to reveal, let it be
in your own tongue, do not indulge much
in the gift of tongues, or the devil will take
advantage.
	You may speak in tongues for your com-
fort. But I lay this down as a rule, that if
anything is taught by the gift of tongues,
it is not to be received for doctrine.
	President Smith then gave instruction
respecting women administering to the sick
by the laying on of hands, said it was ac-
cording to revelation, he never was placed
in similar circumstances, and never had
given the same instruction.
	At the ninth meeting May 26th, the
Prophet read the 14th chapter of Ezekiel
and said the Lord declared by that prophet
that the people should each one stand for
themselves and depend on no man or men;
in the state of corruption in the Jewish
church that righteous persons could only
deliver their own souls. Applied it to the
present condition of the Church of Latter-
day Staints. If the people depart from the
Lord they must fall, they were depending
on the Prophet, hence there was darkness
in their minds.
	He had two things to recommend to the
Society. Be guarded in your speech; no
organized society can exist without giving
heed to this caution. All organized bodies
have their peculiar evils, weaknesses and
difficulties, the object is to make those not
so good equal with the good, and ever hold
the keys of power which will influence to
virtue and goodness.
	When you chasten and reprove, never
mention it again, then you will be estab-
lished in power, virtue and holiness and
the wrath of God will be turned away. God
designs to save the people out of their sins.
Jesus said, “Ye shall do the works which
ye have seen me do;” these are the grand
key-words for the Society to act upon.


Tenth meeting was addressed by Bishop
N. K. Whitney, President Joseph Smith be-
ing present. 
	Eleventh meeting, June 11th. Presiden[-]
Joseph Smith. It grieves me that there is
no fuller fellowship, if one member suf-
fers all feel it; by union of feeling we ob-
tain power with God; Christ said He came
to call sinners to repentance, and to save
them. Christ was condemned by the right-
eous Jews because He took sinners into His
society, he took them upon the principle
that they repent. Nothing is so much cal-
culated to lead people to forsake sin as to
take them by the hand and watch over them
with tenderness. The nearer we get to our
Heavenly Father, the more we are disposed
to look with compassion on perishing souls. 
I say to this Society if you would have God
to have mercy on you, have mercy on each
other. How mild the Savior dealt with
Peter, saying, “When thou art converted
strengthen thy brethren.” At another time
He said to him, “Lovest thou me? Feed my
sheep.” The Society is not only to relieve
the poor but to save souls. 
	Sixteenth meeting, held in the Grove,
Aug. 31st, 1842. After relating recent diffi-
culties President Joseph Smith had encoun-
tered while being hunted by his enemies,
he said the Relief Society has taken an
active part in my welfare in petitioning the
Governor in my behalf. These measures
were necessary and your influence helped to
bring about my redemption from the hands
of my enemies. I have come here to bless
you. The Society has done well, their prin-
ciples are to practice holiness. God loves
you and your prayers shall avail much; do
not cease to let them ascend to God in my
behalf. The enemy will never get weary. 
I expect he will array everything against
me, expect a tremendous warfare. He that
will war the Christian warfare will have
Satan and all the powers of darkness con-
tinually arrayed against him. 
	A few things had been manifested to him
during his absence, respecting baptism for
the dead, which he would communicate next
 Sabbath if nothing should occur to pre-
vent it. He then offered a fervent prayer to
God in behalf of the Society. After the
transaction of some business in the adjust-
ment of which President Smith offered
counsel—he then said he had one more re-
mark to make respecting baptism for the
dead which must suffice for the present and
until he had the opportunity to present the
subject at a greater length. 
	All persons baptized for the dead must
have a recorder present, that he may be an
eye-witness to testify of it. It will be nec-
essary in the Great Council that these things
be testified of. It should be attended to
from this time. If there is any lack it may
be at the expense of our friends. 
	This was the last Relief Society meeting
that President Joseph Smith attended. 
	During the two years administration of
President Emma Smith and her associates,
visiting sisters were appointed to search
out the needy, to find work for the able-
bodied, to receive contributions and to re-
port conditions. 
	The labors of the Society were extend-
ed to the four wards of the city. 
	One thousand two hundred and seventy-
five names were enrolled as members. The
recorded receipts were $415.24.


[Column 1]
		THE LIVING WAGE. 
	The members of the vice investigation 
committee of Chicago came across so many
shocking and surprising facts connected
with the downfall of girls that they have
referred the matter to President Wilson, be-
lieving that only by national legislation can
existing conditions be rectified. There have
already been some splendid results from the
publicity of the investigations. The Na-
tional Harvester company has increased the
salaries of its women employees, and other
large institutions are taking steps to do the
same, while the states which have legisla-
tion pending connected with the “living
wage” subject are likely to pass some
measures of benefit to the working woman. 
	The Utah legislature enacted a minimum
wage measure which has received the gov-
ernor’s signature and will go into effect im-
mediately. To the credit of the state, be it
said that Utah is the first state to fix a scale
of wages for the working girl. The mini-
mum is low, it is true, and not what the
friends of the measure desired, but it is a
step in the right direction, and will raise the
standard and respect of the girl herself to
know she has a law to befriend and protect
her. 
	One other excellent measure enacted by
the Utah legislature connected with the
working girl, was the one which provided
for a woman deputy on the Commission of
Immigration, Labor and Statistics. It will
be the duty of this woman deputy to see
that the state laws are enforced in regard
to the employment of women and children
in the different industries in the state. When
one considers the large number of women
employed in the different mercantile estab-
lishments, the laundries, the hospitals, the

[Column 2]
biscuit and candy factories, box factories,
hotels and restaurants, not to mention
schools where about ninety per cent of the
teachers are women, one wonders that so
long a time should have passed in a suffrage
state without such an officer.
	With a good, competent woman holding
this position, the working girl will feel
greater security in her work; she will know
that there is some one with authority look-
ing after her interests. The industries need
not suffer in consequence of these measures,
in fact they ought to prosper, as all things
do, where a proper understanding exists be-
tween employer and employee, on a basis
of something like equality. It may not, per-
haps, be very well known that many estab-
lishments in Salt Lake City employ young
girls at the rate of fifty-three and a half
cents a day, and some even less, expecting
a good nine-hour day’s work. With these
two measures enforced, such a condition is
now impossible. 
	While probably there will always exist
evil and girls will fall from the path of
rectitude, yet with good laws on the statute
books of the state and good officers to en-
force the laws, there is protection for the
working girl and safer conditions around
her. The low wage and poor environment
may not be the greatest or only causes of
immorality, but they are undoubtedly im-
portant factors in driving girls to lives of
shame. 
	The fact that when a girl lives at home
she does not need such high wages as the
girl who comes from the country and has
to pay for her room and board as well as
clothes, is one argument the employer makes
that he always inquires if his apprentices
live at home and the wage in such cases
ranges from two dollars and a half to four
dollars a week. Now, does it stand to rea-
son that parents would send their girls into
the whirl and sorrow of the factory or the
shop if her wage was not to become a factor
in the support of the home? One does not
need to follow the investigations of “vice
committees” in Chicago or any of the big
cities; all one needs to do is to look around
at home in one’s own town or city and learn
something of the conditions of the labor-
ing class; that as soon as children are
old enough they are taken from school and
forced into the “madding crowd” in pursuit
of money to help pay perhaps the house
rent, or the interest on the mortgaged home,
to help clothe and feed those still younger
and the work worn mother. Many of these
working girls are underfed and life in youth
becomes care and burden when it should be
a joy and delight. When the nation or the
individual states have legislation to amelior-
ate these conditions then are we progressing
towards the plane of universal brotherhood;
when the manufacturer or the merchant can
realize that those whom he employs are en-
titled to a reasonable and sufficient wage,
in fact when he will concede that he does
not need ninety-five per cent of his profits
while his employees divide the remaining
five, then perhaps will begin the solving of
that perplexing national question—“Labor
and Capital.”
	The women of the country have agitated
legislation along these lines for some time
past and now when women are beginning to
have a hand and an influence in the making
of the laws, the fruit of their labors is being
realized. In four of the suffrage states,
Colorado, Utah, Washington, and Califor-

[Column 3]
nia, women sat in the legislature this win-
ter, and in all of these states some splendid
social legislation has been passed, while
committees of women have worked for sim-
ilar laws in states where suffrage does not
yet obtain. So rolls on the good work. 
						A. W. C.


WOMAN ’ S EXPONENT.


WOMAN ’ S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		ST. PATRICK.
	“Toast America’s goldenrod, 
	Toast France’s lily fair.
	Toast bonny Scotland’s thistle,
	And England’s rose so rare.
	They all deserve our praises,
	And our blessings too, I ween,
	But give to me the shamrock
	From the little isle so green.”

	It would not be inappropriate if we gave
a few minutes thought to St. Patrick, as our
festival day by coincidence falls on the same
day as his. St. Patrick was a true saint of
God. A saint is a person endowed with a
sublime spirit of prayer, purity of heart,
and perfect charity and humility.
	Such people God chooses to act as his in-
struments on earth.
	During the close of the fourth century, in
a little town in Scotland, a boy was born
called Patrick. His parents were of a good
Roman family. He was tenderly nurtured
and reared in the Christian faith. He lived
on the farm with his parents until he was
sixteen years of age, when a band of
pirates visited that part of the country and
carried off a great many of the young peo-
ple, among them the boy Patrick. He was
taken into Ireland and forced to tend cattle
and swine. He went through many hard-
ships, such as danger and cold. He endured
these trials for six long years, and it was
during this time that his intense religious
nature was developed.
	He fasted and prayed day and night to
be able to stand these persecutions. He
made as many as one hundred prayers in
a night and the same during the day. One
night he had a dream in which it was made
known to him to return to Scotland. He at
once planned to escape, which he succeeded
in doing and made his way on foot two
hundred miles to the sea coast. When he
arrived there he found a ship ready to sail;
having no money he begged the captain to
be allowed to work his way, but the cap-
tain sternly refused. He turned to go back
with a sad heart, and prayed earnestly to
God to help him. He had not gone far when
he was suddenly called back by the sailors
who told him the captain had relented.
	During the voyage he preached a great
deal to the sailors and taught them to have
faith in God. When they reached land they
found themselves in a barren waste of coun- 
try and had to travel for many days on foot.
They were often without food and at one
time actually faced starvation. The captain
asked this boy preacher why he did not call
upon God to help them. He replied if they
would turn to the Lord in faith their prayers
would be answered. This they did, and that
very same day they came across a herd of
swine, and were never without food again.
	Patrick finally reached his home and was
received with great joy and gladness. After
a few years he had a vision in which God
told him he was to perform the great work
of converting the Irish. He immediately
began to prepare himself for this mission.
After studying hard for four years he
gained permission from the Pope to set
about this work. So he departed once more
for Ireland.
	He found the people to be a lot of bar-
barians worshiping idols; he worked un-
ceasingly among them day and night. He
traveled from one end of the island to the
other exposing himself to great danger. In
a short time his labors were rewarded and

[Column 2]
he baptized many, ordained clergymen and
established monasteries, and in time all of
the people were converted and Ireland be-
came a garden in the Church.
	St. Patrick performed many miracles,
such as healing the sick, restoring sight to
the blind, and it is said he even raised the
dead. He labored in this way for 40 years
and then he passed away.
	During the early part of his ministry he
was preaching to a barbarian chief, trying
to explain the Trinity. This the chief could
not understand, how it could be possible for
one to be in three. St. Patrick picked from
the green sod a shamrock and holding it up
bade him behold “one in three.” The chief
was so impressed with this illustration that
he at once was baptized.
	The shamrock became the national em-
blem of Ireland and is symbolized all over
the world where there are any Irish by “The
Wearing of the Green.”
	St. Patrick we know and esteem
	By wearing a little knot of green;
	But our hearts best wishes will always be 
	With our own Relief Society.
			WlNNIFRED C. ELLERBECK.


ANNIVERSARY DAY.

			Provo, April 3, 1913.
	The 17th of March anniversary exercises
of the Utah Stake Relief Society were held
in the stake tabernacle, President Martha
A. F. Keeler presiding.
	After the opening exercises President
Keeler delivered a greeting from President
Emmeline B. Wells; spoke on the past his-
tory of the Relief Society, and stated that
the program had been arranged to do honor
to Sisters Marilla Daniels, Percia Bunnell,
and Agnes Farrer, who have labored faith-
fully for many years in this organization.
	A vocal solo was rendered by W. D. 
Roberts.
	Sketches of the lives of the three guests
of honor were given by Mrs. Pearl Daniels
Thomas, Mrs. Melissa Bunnell Williams,
and Mrs. Zella Farrer Stubbs.
	Sisters Daniels, Bunnell and Farrer were
each presented with a post card album, and 
were showered with post cards bearing sen-
timents of the greatest esteem. The sisters
thus honored responded briefly, and related
many incidents of their experience in the
early days of Relief Society work. The 
musical exercises, in charge of stake Relief
Society choir director Mrs. Salt, were a
very pleasing feature of the program. 
Stake President Joseph B. Keeler added
a few words of appreciation of the labors
of Relief Society workers. After the bene-
diction refreshments were served.
			MARY E. ASHWORTH,
			Corresponding Secretary.

	MARILLA MILLER DANIELS.

	Read by Mrs. Pearl Daniels Thomas.
	Sister Marilla Miller Daniels was born
October 12, 1830, in Haddam, Middlesex
County, Conn. Her father Aaron Johnson
and her mother Zerviah Kelsey, joined the
Church in 1836, and in the following spring
left their home, associations and all ties of
kindred for the gospel sake, traveling over-
land through central New York to Kirtland,
Ohio; this being the first place appointed


for the gathering of the Saints, and here
their first Temple was built. The first time
she ever saw the Prophet Joseph Smith was
at a fast meeting held in the Kirtland Tem-
ple in 1837, when he addressed the Saints. 
One would have to see him in order to un-
derstand the glorious inspiration that over-
shadowed him. The impression that he
made upon her mind at that time has never
left her, although she is now in her 83rd
year. And many times after that she en-
joyed the privilege of hearing him speak
and has never doubted the divinity of his 
mission. Her family were quite intimate
with the Prophet Joseph, and his family, as
neighbors, living only across the street from
each other. In the early spring of 1838 her
father’s family arrived in Far West, Mo.,
but they were only permitted to remain
there until March of the following year, on
account of the exterminating order of Gov.
Boggs, for them to leave the state. In the 
spring of 1839 they again left their home
and moved to Commerce, Illinois, which
was afterward called Nauvoo. Here her
father built three houses and they remained
there seven years. She has a distinct recol-
lection of the martyrdom of the Prophet and
his brother Hyrum, and the terrible scenes
enacted at that time. At the age of four-
teen years she was teaching school in Nau-
voo to about thirty pupils, and our President
Joseph F. Smith, also others of Brother
Hyrum’s family, were among them. Here
she met and married William Miller, the
ceremony being performed in the Nauvoo
Temple. In the spring of 1849 she left for
Utah, her husband being captain of the com-
pany. They arrived in Salt Lake in Sep-
tember of the same year, remaining there
one year. Her husband William Miller
founded the town of Springville and they
in company with her father’s family settled
there, living there ten years. Her mother
and only brother died of cholera on the 
plains in 1850 and were buried by the road-
side. This was a terrible blow to her as
she was anxiously awaiting the arrival of 
her mother and other relatives. In 1860 her
husband was called to act as President of
Utah stake, which necessitated their mov-
ing to Provo, where she has since resided.
Her husband died Aug. 7, 1875. Some
years later she married James E. Daniels.
She has been identified with the Relief So-
ciety ever since its first organization in
Utah. She has led a very active life and 
devoted much time to public work, having 
been a teacher in the Theological class of 
the Sunday School for a period of nineteen
years; was president and also a teacher of
the Primary association in her ward; was
also first counselor to Mary John in the 
Utah Stake Relief Society for many years.
In September, 1892, she was appointed as
president of the World’s Fair commission
for Utah county, and worked most assidu-
ously to make a success of the World’s Fair
exhibit from Utah, traveling and organiz-
ing clubs throughout the county. For sev-
eral years she acted as vice president of the
Woman Suffrage Association of Utah
county, and was sent as a delegate to the
27th annual convention of the National
American Suffrage Association, held in At-
lanta, Ga. After the death of President
Mary John, Sister Daniels was honorably
released from the presidency of the Relief
Society and was appointed as an honorary
counselor and member of the stake board
which position she now holds.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		PERCIA BUNNELL.

	Read by Mrs. Melissa Bunnell Williams.
	Sister Percia Grover Bunnell, daughter
of Thomas Grover and Caroline Nickerson,
was born December 27, 1841, in Nauvoo,
Ill. She lived there with her parents until
she was five years old, when they left for
the Rocky Mountains with the first company
of pioneers. While crossing the Mississippi
river February, 1846, in a ferry boat, one of 
her grandfather’s oxen jumped overboard.
In jumping around he knocked a board
from the bottom of the boat, which sank im-
mediately. Grandfather signalled another
boat which came to their rescue. They were 
all soaked through—bedding, provisions and 
everything in the wagon. Notwithstanding
this misfortune not one received any ill
effects. The journey was continued as far
as Pisgah, but after arriving there, on ac-
count of the few teams and heavily loaded
wagons, it was decided that the families be
divided and part sent back to Nauvoo.
Grandmother and her children were among
this number. The following September
they started again with mother’s grand-
parents, Grandmother Grover having a
young babe but twenty-four hours old. After
traveling two hundred miles sickness befell
them and great-grandfather and three sons
died, leaving grandmother and her mother
with five small children to care for. They
resumed their journey as far as Council
Bluffs, when they were again detained for
want of means. So grandmother stayed
there, taking in washing, sewing, nursing
the sick, or anything she could get to do.
They stayed there until 1850, when grand-
father sent means for them to come to the
valley. They arrived in Salt Lake City in 
September, 1850, having suffered many
hardships on their journey. They lived
there two years, grandmother teaching
school for support. In 1852 she moved to
Provo, where she has since lived. Mother
and father were married in 1856; they had
twelve children, four of whom are living.
Mother suffered all the hardships incident
to pioneer life. She attended the first Re-
lief Society organized in Provo, acted as
teacher in the Third ward seven years; also
was appointed president of the teachers in
Lake View ward. In 1878 was chosen pres-
ident of the Lake View Relief Society,
which position she held six years. In 1901
was chosen second counselor to Sister Mary
John and labored as such until Sister John's
death, when she was honorably released and 
chosen an an aid, where she still labors. She 
has always been ready to help the poor,
nurse the sick, and although she is 71 years
old, continues in this good work. 

		AGNES STRONG FARRER.

		Read by Zella Farrer Stubbs.
	Agnes Strong Farrer is the daughter of
John Strong and Agnes Miller. She was

[Column 2]
born October 3, 1837, in Kendal, Westmor-
land, England. In 1846 she was baptized a
member of the Church by her father John 
Strong, who was president of the branch.
	Grandma with her parents left England
and walked across the plains and landed in
Utah October 28, 1855. In 1856 they moved 
to Provo and in 1857 she married Roger
Farrer, and they have resided here ever
since. Grandma is the noble mother of nine
children, six of whom are living. She has
always been a Church worker in different
organizations; a teacher in the Sunday
School and counselor in the Primary for
fifteen years.
	The first Relief Society meeting she at-
tended in 1870 she was called upon to sing
and pray, and this was the beginning of her
interest in this organization. She was set
apart as teacher and labored in that capacity 
many years. She was appointed president
of the teachers, also an aid on the stake 
board. She was for the last seven years a
member of the Utah Stake Relief Society
Board, acting as chorister for that organiza-
tion.
	She has always been a regular attendant
of Relief Society gatherings and an ardent
worker therein. Her labor has been one of
love and pleasure, and her influence for
good is always felt wherever she goes. She
is a strong, most beautiful character and 
can see the good that is in each person.
	By her smile, how soon the stranger and
friend knows, it is not of herself she is
thinking, not of herself but of others—an
example for us all. She is a Saint of cheer-
ful spirit, Saint of days and nights. She 
shall sit in heavenly places and have her 
heart's desire.
	God bless our dear, sweet and soul-inspir-
ing mothers and grandmothers whose di-
vinely human interest and love have given
us our glorious nation.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mrs. Luella B. Johnston, of Sacramento,
Cal., is believed to be the first and only
woman yet chosen as a commissioner by
any city which has adopted the commission
form of government. Sacramento is proud
of her, and prominent citizens put up the
money to have in the California section of
the Washington parade two banners, one
reading, “Sacramento, the Heart of Cali-
fornia and the Capital of the State,” and
another, “Women of Sacramento voted
commission plan and elected only woman
commissioner in world. Under her admin-
stration as commissioner of education,
school, health and sanitary conditions have
become ideal.”—Exchange.

	“Something has really happened in Cali-
fornia. The men have learned that the .
women have waked up.”


R. K. THOMAS CO., 	67-60 MAIN STREET,
                                     	SALT LAKE CITY.
	The most becoming Styles in Ladies'
	Suits, Coats, Dresses, Skirts, and 
	Waists at Popular Prices.
THE STORE WHERE YOU CAN FEEL AT HOME


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Organ of the Latter-day Saints' Woman's Relief Society.
Vol. 41. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY, 1913 No. 7.


CONTENTS.
A Sketch (Harriet Amelia Snow)					49
An Audience with the Pope				G. B. W. 51
Book Review									51
Relief Society Reports--
	Bear River Stake							55
	St. Joseph Stake							56
Editorial--
	Mother's Day in May Time					52
	Editoral Note								52
	General Relief Society Conference... 52
The Child—Born and Unborn						53
Society of the Utah Hand-Cart Pioneer.
	and Daughters								54
In Memoriam									56
Poetry--
	The Lovers and the Bobolink
					Augusta Joyce Crocheron	49
	Am I Queen in My Home?
							Vincy R. Barker	49
To a Dear Young Girl Emmie
					Augusta Joyce Croacheron 	51
	"Thy Will Be Done"	           Lydia D. Alder 	56


THE LOVERS AND THE BOBOLINK.
Idly adown the green lane's shade,
Happy and silent two lovers strayed,
Perfume and sunshine over all
And 'round them the myriad songsters' call.
Moss and ferns crept down to the sedge
Where the wild rose hung o'er the water's edge,
And through the green aisles of the rushes rang
The chorus of joy the blackbirds sang.
Listen! From throbbing breasts of gold--
Mellowest music ever rolled--
Where, rocking on spray o'er the cascade's
	brink,
Wooing his love, trilled the bobolink!

Morning of life! and bright June day,
What could they do but onward stray,
And following close as some sweet dream
Hovered the brookside's minstrel's theme.
Then, as too near their footsteps pressed,
A lark sprang up from her wee home nest--
And, in a pool, (as in legend old),
They saw the secret their faces told.
Brighter along their homeward way
Did the flowers bloom and the sunlight play,
For their hearts were bound in that sweet link
Sung far and wide by the bobolink!
			AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
March 6th, 1913.


AM I QUEEN IN MY HOME?
Do I reign as queen in my household?
	Oh! how much does that question mean?
Can I ever with all of my striving,
	Gain that worthy title "Queen?"

Am I queen in my home to my children?
	Are they subjects loyal and true?
Is my reign full of justice and honor?
	Are they anxious my bidding to do?

Do they come to me with their sorrows?
	Do they let me share their joys?
Is "Mama" always the confidant 
	Of my heaven-sent girls and boys?

Do they entwine their arms about me
	And tell me of their fears?
Do I know their disappointments?
	Do they let me dry their tears?

Do I patiently list to their prattle,
	And join in their games at play?
Do I study out their lessons,
	And direct their efforts each day? 

Do I seek to know their meaning?
	Do I strive to ever be wise.
And bring myself back to childhood,
	And see things through children's eyes?

Am I a queen to my husband,
	My Lord, my Priest, my King?
Do I help him fulfill his calling 
	Do I with him God's praises sing?


In the right do I sustain him?
	Do I comfort, cheer, and bless?
Do I stand side by side with him equally
	And try with him to progress?

With unswerving heart do I counsel,
	With sweet intuition from heaven?
Plead and advise if there’s error,
	Let him feel I’m a “queen” God given?

Oh, show me a queen that's ideal;
	Let me get inspiration from her;
Let me absorb her best aspirations,
	In her highest convictions concur.

Oh, God, give me strength and wisdom,
	Give me light, knowledge and power;
That I to my husband and children,
	May be truly a “queen” every hour.
					VINCY R. BARKER,
						7th Ward R. S.


[Column 1] 
Harriet Amelia Snow.
A SKETCH.
Harriet Amelia, daughter of Aaron and
Elizabeth T. Squires, born 13th September
1819, in Aurora, Geauga Co.Ohio. Her hon-
orable lineage is best established by refer-
ence to the fact that her parents were na-
tives of New England, one of her grand-
fathers served in the Revolutionary war,
and that her progenitors came to America
in the Mayflower.
At twenty-five years of age, she embraced
the Gospel, and gathered with the Church
at Nauvoo. In January, 1846, she was
married to Elder Lorenzo Snow, and in
the February following with her husband
and his three other wives, crossed the Mis-
sissippi and joined the encampment of the
Saints who had preceded them. Thence
to Salt Lake Valley her story is not dissimi-
lar to that of the majority of the Saints,
except in personal incident and circum-
stance.
A praiseworthy act of hers, during the
trip across the plains, deserves historical rec-

[Column 2] 
ord. A woman had died on the way, leav-
ing three little children—one of them a
helpless infant. Sister Snow was so
wrought upon by the pitiful condition of
the infant, that she weaned her own child
and nursed the motherless babe. By a stupid
blunder of her teamster, she was one night
left behind, alone, with two little children
on the prairie. Luckily for her, a wagon had
broken down and had been abandoned by
the company. Depositing the babes in the
wagon box, she made search, and found that
some flour and a handbell had been left in
the wreck, and with this scanty outfit she
set about making supper. She first took
the clapper out of the handbell, then stopped
up the hole where it had been fastened in.
This now served her for a water pitcher.
Filling it at a brook some distance away,
she wet up some of the flour, then, with
some matches that she had with her, started
a fire, and baked the flour—cakes, herself
and thirteen months old child making their
supper upon them. She then ensconced her-
self in the wagon with her babes, and slept
till early morning, when her husband found
her and complimented her highly for her
ingenuity and bravery. (Extract from
Women of Mormondom.)
After living a few years in Salt Lake
City, her husband was called to settle in
Box Elder, and preside over thaf part of
Zion. In 1857, one of her husband’s wives
died, leaving a little girl three years old,
and a baby boy. “Aunt Harriet” (as she was
lovingly called,) took the little girl into her
heart and home, another wife took the little
baby boy, but some years later, she also
took this little one, and they shared her
mother-love, together with her own children,
until they grew up and were married. She
was a blessing in the family, in times of
illness, they all depended on her greatly,
for she was skillful in understanding the
use of herbs and nursing the sick, and her
faith and childlike trust in the Heavenly
Father was a power, and inspired the broken
hearted with calmness, courage and faith.
In May 1868, the Relief Society was or-
ganized in Brigham City, she was called to
the position of 1st counselor to President
Leonora Snow Morley. After the death of
Sister Morley, in February, 1872, Aunt
Harriet became the President of the Relief
Society of Brigham City.
In those days, there was need of a great
deal of practical labor for the Relief Soci-
ety, poor emigrants came every year to
town, sometimes whole families came next
to empty-handed, needing everything. Aunt
Harriet used to say in Relief Society meet-
ing, “let your hearts and minds expand,
let us divide and share what we have with
the newcomers,” working days were kept
every month, where quilts and carpets were
made, ready to sell or give away according
to needs.
In the first years of the Society, Aunt
Harriet led the sisters in making many over-
alls, shirts and knitted socks, which were
sent to the men who worked on the Temple
in Salt Lake City, very little money was to


[Column 1] 
be found here then, but Aunt Harriet was
resourceful, many calls were made of the
Relief Society to assist, building up the
commonwealth. Aunt Harriet made chick-
en raising a study. When the call for the
first Tabernacle in Brigham City came, she
inspired the members of the Society to
gather Sunday eggs for a certain period of
time, and a fine sum in hard cash was rea-
lized, which was quite an item in those days
when money was so scarce.
	She was an inspiration in building up
home industry, she organized a class in
braiding straw, with Sister Carrie Smith as
teacher, fine hats with homemade trimming
were made in this department. Through
her management the Society helped build
the woollen factory and the Co-op Store;
when the days of prosperity arrived, the
Society owned a goodly amount of stock
in both institutions, and when poor families
were in need, the sisters would get the splen-
did homemade cloth, call extra working
days, cut and sew until the needy were com-
fortably provided for. She herself always
dressed in home made as much as was pos-
sible. Although money was so scarce,
Aunt Harriet managed through the Society
to emigrate a number of people—several
families from England and others. But
very little if any of this money ever was re-
turned. She was prompt in filling every
call, never shirking work. The following
incident will serve as an example. On July
24th, 1875, the United Order held a Grand
Fair. Every interested man and woman
was busy in assisting with preparations.
The committee called on the Relief Society
to make thirteen flags—the Stars and Stripes
—one for each department of Home Indus-
try, and one extra large for the Courthouse.
The request was made just a couple of days
before the 24th, but Aunt Harriet was equal
to the occasion. She gathered several sew-
ing machines to her house, requested a num-
ber of the best needle women to come and
work, and proudly they turned out the full
number just in time for the great celebra-
tion.
	In 1876, Sister Emmeline B. Wells met
with the Society in Brigham City, May 22nd
she came to explain the call from President
Brigham Young, that the Relief Societies
should gather and store wheat, this wonder-
ful call Aunt Harriet took up with her whole
soul, full of energy and determination she
led the sisters into the fields to glean wheat
like Ruth of old, this was the beginning of
this work, but little by little the members
gathered means for buying wheat. In the
beginning it was kept in the basement of
the Court House, this was found impracti-
cal, so Aunt Harriet gave one of her up-
stair rooms to keep wheat in, until a granary
could be built. She planned and worked
hard for a granary. She asked all children
to bring to her all the glass pieces they
could find, these she crushed herself, and
had it mixed into the mortar used in build-
ing the granary, this substantial cool rock
building was completed in 1880. This was
the first granary among the Relief Societies
in the Stake, but she had the joy to see a
number more before her death. She was
anxious and zealous in storing wheat.
	When the Relief Society was organized
into a stake capacity, March 13th, 1878,
she became President of the Relief Society
of Box Elder Stake.
	A few years before, however, President
Brigham Young called upon the Relief So-

[Column 2]
cieties to send a number of good women to
Salt Lake City, to study and qualify in ob-
stetrics, that we might have good midwives.
Aunt Harriet with the assistance of Presi-
dent Lorenzo Snow, organized several clas-
ses. These sisters were called and set apart
for this mission, by President Lorenzo Snow
and his counselors, and Aunt Harriet obliged
herself to see that they did not suffer for
anything needful, during their schooling.
She was a mother to these and raised means
to pay the tuition for those who did not
have the means on hand, she also bought
a number of books as a medical library for
their benefit in their work.
	When the call for raising silk came, she
took up the work in earnest, herself raising
cocoons. She called upon ward societies to
buy land and plant mulberry trees. For
some years this industry prospered, the three
wards in Brigham City also the Willard as-
sociation had splendid mulberry tree
groves. Aunt Harriet, although along in
years, would hitch up a horse and buggy and
drive to the groves for loads of leaves for
her silk worms.
	In 1884, June 11th and 12th a conjoint
Fair was held in the Court House, by the
Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. Association,
the Relief Society had a splendid exhibit
of sericulture, including seven silk dresses,
four silver grey, three changeable royal
purple, big skeins of beautiful reeled silk,
many cocoons, twilled silk cloth, crocheted
ladies mitts, bright colored netted neckties,
skeins of sewing silk, also the waste from
the silk worked together with wool, showing
what could be done in this useful industry.
	When the Deseret Hospital was erected,
July 17th 1882, Aunt Harriet raised liberal
contributions yearly, of good quilts, sacks of
clean clothes, boxes of canned fruit, and sent
down to help sustain it.
	How dignified, happy and proud she
looked, when telling us about the first call
towards the Logan Temple. We had felt
happy and proud to assist building the Tab-
ernacle, but to help with the Temple,—well
it was done with a spirit of joyful reverence.
	As Stake President Aunt Harriet had to
travel a great deal, Box Elder Stake was far
reaching, taking in Snowville, Park Valley,
Grouse Creek, Malad and into Cassia Co.,
Idaho, when Aunt Harriet, and Sister Eliza
R. Snow, in President Lorenzo Snow’s com-
pany, which included many of the prominent
brethren, had traveled through the Stake and
finished organizing, she found herself Presi-
dent of twenty-four associations. The wes-
tern trip took about three weeks in those
days, but she enjoyed her labor and brought
her wonderful influence to the different
wards, she was a tower of strength to her
co-laborers; she was noble and wise in coun-
seling and directing, and her strong spiritual
mindedness coupled with her sweet humili-
ty, made her sublime. The branch presi-
dents would look forward to her coming,
and if there were any sick sisters or chil-
dren in their midst, they would take her to
them, that she might bless and comfort them.
	The nearby settlements she would visit to-
gether with as many of her board as could
go, sometimes in one big three seated wagon,
sometimes another smaller buggy. These
trips were thoroughly enjoyed by all includ-
ed.
	Aunt Harriet was very conscientious, al-
ways, duty first, in fact, her husband’s trib-
ute that he paid her the last Relief Soci-
ety meeting he attended before leaving for

[Column 3] 
Palestine 1872, gives a plain index to her
character. He delivered a spirited farewell
sermon to the Society concluding with these
words: “I leave you now in the care of
Aunt Harriet, for I know, even if the Devil
stood in the door, she would push him aside
and go to perform her duty.”
	Aunt Harriet was a tall, large woman,
dignified in appearance, plain and frugal in
tastes and habits, modest, unassuming, in-
dustrious. Her very presence inspired re-
spect and confidence in old and young, she
always wore homemade clothing as far as
could be had, continually urging the sisters
to be self-sustaining and patronize home in-
dustry, not follow the fashions of the world.
The following incident may show her integ-
rity to principle even in small things. One
bright summer day she traveled with a num-
ber of her board to visit a near by settle-
ment. Aunt Harriet wore a new dress, per-
fectly plain, princess cut, but instead of the
old fashioned invisible pocket, her daughter
had put on a new mode, a placket pocket,
At the meeting the local president reported
her ward and spoke very forcibly on the
follies of fashion, among other things, she
said: “Brigham City lies on a hill and it
ought to be a light to the whole Stake.”
Naturally the Stake officers present won-
dered if any of them had offended in some
way, so returning home in their big three
seated wagon, being all women, Counselor
Mary the teamster, they began to criticize
each other’s dress like happy school
children determined to find the culprit; with
much merriment they accused each other,
until one declared it must be Aunt Harriet’s
new pocket, and there she sat, never saying
one word but her shoulders shaking with
suppressed laughter and her eyes twinkling
with amusement. (Let me state here, that
I have never heard Aunt Harriet laugh
loud, but always a silent laugh, so to
speak.)
	Next morning the same company went to
Bear River City, arriving at the president’s
home, removing their dust coats, helping
each other with little tidy-up touches, sud-
denly they all stood transfixed looking at
Aunt Harriet for lo! she had picked off
the modern pocket and inserted an old
fashioned one in its stead, blessed Saint as
she was, always telling us, that example
speaks louder than precept. She enjoyed
the company of the young, and attended the
Young Ladies’ and Primary meetings con-
stantly.
	In looking backward through the long
vista of years, it seems impossible to give
a perfect sketch of her many-sided labors,
spiritually and temporally, she firmly be-
lieved and carried out the instructions of
the Prophet Joseph, to the Relief Society,
that they should strive to save souls and
provoke the brethren to good works. The
many peculiar calls that came to our women
in her time, she always accepted and magni-
fied her calling, loyal and true to her peers.
Her intimate associates at headquarters
were Sisters Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H.
Young, Emmeline B. Wells, Phoebe Wood-
ruff, M. Isabella Horne, Jane Richards,
these leaders in woman’s work often visited
and enjoyed the progress of home indus-
tries in Box Elder County.
	She was a true mother in Israel, always
willing and ready to go among the sick.
She was sent for a great deal, because
the sisters loved her and her administration
in the sacred ordinances because of her sub-


lime faith in the Gospel. She always
taught and inspired her sisters to live up
to every principle of the Gospel. Being
among the first to enter Celestial Marriage,
she often testified to the greatness of this
principle, saying, “I know this is a true prin-
ciple, or I should never have stayed by it,
it is a pure and sacred principle, calculated
to exalt and ennoble all who honor and live
it as revealed by the Prophet Joseph Smith.”
	She taught and urged the sisters to gath-
er genealogy and do Temple work, herself
setting a strong example. In 1889 her
health failed more or less, she became rather
feeble and her eyesight became quite dim,
but spiritually she was full of energy to
finish her genealogy. In October she went
to Salt Lake City, attended all the meetings
of the Relief Society also the General Con-
ference, then she traveled all alone down
to Manti and worked in the Temple till her
record was finished. A month later she re-
turned home unannounced, in the afternoon
she came and surprised us in our home,
bringing her lantern; she was in the habit of
doing this, when she would stay and spend
the evening, and we would take her home
at night. She told us all her experience
during the trip and her work, told how she
had now finished her own record, also had
taken some genealogy of one of her hus-
band’s wives, fearing that she would not
attend to it, Aunt Harriet had also this
finished. Under the recital she looked so
earnest and grave, and we sat gazing at her
with eyes brimfull of tears, with a feeling
of awe, our hearts full of love and tenderness
towards her, but the still small voice plainly
whispered to us “Aunt Harriet will soon
leave us, she has finished her work.”
	Next year, May 12th, 1890, she passed to
the great beyond.
	We thank Our Heavenly Father for hav-
ing known, lived and labored with our moth-
er, “Aunt Harriet.” 
				EMELIA D. MADSEN.





WOMAN ’ S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	AN AUDIENCE WITH THE POPE.
	Our letter to Cardinal Martennelli pro-
cured us our audience with His Holiness
Pope Pius X.
	On Nov. 25th 1909 at eleven o’clock in
the morning, we drove through the streets
of Rome in the brilliant sunshine, over the
beautiful arched bridge of St. Angelo, across
St. Peter’s Square to the entrance of the
Vatican.
	When we arrived the Swiss guard in their
picturesque costumes of yellow, blue, and
black stripes, all saluted.
	We wore the customary black dresses,
black veils, and no gloves and carried rosa-
ries which the Pope might bless for our
Catholic friends at home.
	We were conducted up the spacious stairs
past a line of more saluting Swiss guards
into a lofty waiting room where probably
ninety persons were assembled. The walls
of the room were hung with beautiful car-
dinal brocaded silk, there were silk curtains
at the door and windows, large paintings
on the wall, and at one end of the room
was a gold throne with the papal coat of
arms and a dove on the back and the figures
of St. Peter and St. Paul on the sides. The
canopy was of cardinal velvet.
	The men waiting here were in evening

[Column 2]
dress, although it was not yet noon. The
women were in black, while the young girls
were in white with white veils. The veils
are draped on top of the head and fall
over the shoulders with the ends fastened in
front, but do not cover the face. There were
a number of monks and nuns here too.
	After a time a chamberlain, in a gorgeous
costume of cardinal brocaded silk, and wear-
ing cardinal silk hose, black shoes with car-
dinal buckles, ushered us out in groups of
about thirty. We traversed interminable
distances it seemed, through a series of
broad and spacious apartments similar to
that which we had left. Finally we passed
through a smaller room where a number
of persons were standing evidently waiting
to receive a greeting and blessing from the
Pope. We were taken into the next room
and stood in a circle around the wall. It
was an exquisite room. The walls were hung
with cardinal moire silk, the carpet of car-
dinal velvet with the papal coat of arms in
the center and behind us was a large gold
throne. The windows were draped with
white silk curtains, long and softly sweeping
as transparent as lace.
	Two officers in full uniform with helmets
and swords kept guard. One lady had for-
gotten to remove her gloves so she was
asked to take them off. In a moment or so
another officer came in and inspected each of
us from top to toe to see that all was correct
and probably to see that there were no suspi-
cious characters present, for we heard that
at that time the Vatican feared anarchists.
	There was a little rustling movement in
the next room, the guard signaled us all to
kneel and the Pope, accompanied by an at-
tendant robed in purple, entered. His Holi-
ness was dressed entirely in white cloth, a
beautiful, fine, soft fabric, and he wore
hanging on his breast a magnificent emerald
cross. He came in in the simplest fashion,
walked around to each one and extended
his hand in blessing and that each might
kiss the ring of St. Peter which he wore.
After he had passed us, one woman, over
devout, I suppose, bowed to the floor to
kiss his feet, but he jumped back as though
very nervous and did not allow it. The at-
tendant and guards came up quickly, but
the Pope recovered himself, spoke to her and
placed his hand upon her head. After each
had received his greeting he arose, then
when the Pope had been all around the room
we all knelt again, and the Pope, standing in
the center, gave the blessing for all in melo-
dious Italian. He was a man of fine phy-
sique, with white hair, and a ruddy com-
plexion, large kindly Italian eyes and a
simple, gracious manner. His personality
spoke a kindly sympathy for human nature,
and one felt in his presence that a strenuous
life out among his people, helping them in
their struggle in the world, more strongly
appealed to him than an existence which re-
quired him to shut himself away in appar-
ent seclusion.
	After the Pope had finished the blessing
he went into the next room, when he re-
turned we formed a passage from one door
to the other, standing on each side, and as
he passed through, all knelt again, and the
audience, simple but impressive, was over.
	Then we walked back through all the
gorgeous cardinal rooms, past the saluting
Swiss guards and bowing footmen and left
the Vatican.
						G. B. W.


TO A DEAR YOUNG GIRL, EMMIE. 
Slowly with the changing seasons
	In loneliness the years had passed,
Heated summers, autumns somber,
	And the winter ’  s chilling blast;
Dear ones sleeping past earth ’ s waking,
	Dear ones toiling far away;
And my heart still listening, waiting,
	For their coming, day by day. 

Far away the salt lake glistened;
	Fair days, when its waves were blue;
But when white, rude storms descended
	And isolation sterner grew. 
Mountain ranges, gray clad stretches
	Where no streams ran, nor green trees
Broke the monotone of landscape
	With the wild birds ’  melodies. 

Thus the years passed, pioneering,
	Hoping time and toil would bring
Round our dwelling bloom and beauty,
	And the valley yet would ring
With the sounds of busy labor,
	Shine with streams from depths below,
And the desert gray yield harvests,
	As foretold so long ago. 

So the heart fed on its mem ’ ries
	Of dear friends and days gone by;
Ah, how many have passed from us,
	Happier now than you or I. 
Then, at last, almost a stranger,
	Came I to old haunts of mine;
Scenes may change, but true selves ever
	Changeless keep their countersign. 

“Sister Crocheron, you ’ re remembered,”
	 ’ Twas a girl ’ s sweet voice that spoke;
Ah, the long years ’  shadows vanished
	And glad feelings, long hushed, woke. 
Snow was still upon the mountains,
	But the spring, with flower and bird,
Filled my being with its joyance
	As her welcoming I heard. 

Grace and sweetness were thy dower,
	Never may their beauties fade;
Ne ’ er across thy happy pathway,
	Shadows cold, or thorns be laid. 
May the sunshine and the music
	Of thy face and voice endure;
As thou gav ’ st, to thee be given,
	Heart gifts true and sweet and pure. 
			AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON. 
Salt Lake City, Nov. 19, 1912.


BOOK REVIEW.
	We have received from Dillon, Montana,
a new book entitled “Poetic Gems to the
World I Love,” by Mrs. Louise Coulson.
The author’s picture is the frontispiece. The
collection is somewhat fragmentary, con-
taining poems that breathe sweetness and
purity and touch a sympathetic chord in
the hearts of those whose minds tend to the
spiritual side of life, thus bettering human-
ity and the home.
	Mrs. Coulson resided here in Utah for
some years, and became well acquainted
with our people. She both spoke and 
wrote in their behalf.
	We trust this little volume will prove a
blessing to its readers, and bring success to
its author.


NOTES.
	Idaho women sent their suffrage banner
to New York for the parade.  On one [--]
of it is the design of the State s[--] which
was executed in 1890 by M[--] J. G. Green.
This is said to be the only State seal ever
designed by a woman. The pin of the State
Federation is also formed from the seal.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City. Utah
is second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,	-	MAY, 1913


MOTHER’S DAY IN MAY TIME.
	It is a beautiful season to have chosen in
which to keep a festive occasion, in remem-
brance of the mothers through whom the
earth has been peopled—the mothers, who
knowing the suffering and the responsibility
have accepted it all to perpetuate the human
race—mothers of prophets, seers and reve-
lators; mothers of doctors, lawyers, minis-
ters; mothers of doctors, lawyers, minis-
ters; mothers of kings and princes; mothers
of great men in all the walks of life. We
only read of one man who had no earthly
mother, and he was the first man Adam.
He was alone in the new world; and since
it was not good for him to be alone, he was
given an Eve to be his companion and help-
meet. She was the mother of the race that
has peopled the world.
	There is no joy equal to that of the moth-
er when the babe is born—a new life, an
immortal soul that will exist forever, a part
of her own life! Would it were possible
that all the women in the world could realize
the importance of this great blessing and
could comprehend the vastness and magni-
tude of motherhood—there would be more
rejoicing and less unhappiness.
	Some of the most vivid word-
pictures of the supreme joy of motherhood
are drawn in connection with the birth of
Isaac and of Samuel; and still more intensi-
fied in the royal birth of Jesus. Those who
read these wonderful passages in the Scrip-
tures can scarcely realize all that these births
meant to the mothers, who were really and
truly in direct communication with divine
messengers; we marvel at these manifesta-
tions given to women of ancient times and
while we can hardly understand it all, the
simplicity of the narration appeals to us with
the utmost sense of its sublimity.
	In the case of Sarah, we wonder how
she could laugh when the Lord spoke with
her. To us who have such reverence for
even a prophet or an apostle, it seems in-
credible that one should make light of con-
versation with the Lord.
	The month of May is typical of all the
tenderest and most beautiful expressions.
It is the month of delicate flowers, bright-
colored birds, and budding and blossoming
fruits. It seems indeed fitting that Mothers
day should be observed in May, for it is
also the month in which the graves of our
country’s heroes, and of loved ones gone be-
fore, should be decorated with choicest flow-
ers by the hands of women who love the


cause for which they laid down their lives;
and so we say on each May day: O happy
mothers to have borne illustrious sons who
fought in freedom’s cause and whose graves
are dear to every mother who loves her own.
	As we look backward, we can find many
wonderful mothers of men and women. In 
the nineteenth century, there was Lucy
Mack Smith, mother of the great Prophet
of this dispensation, and of his brother the
Patriarch. If we could but look into her
eyes and hear her relate the story of her
life, we would certainly class her with the 
greatest mothers who have been permitted
to bring forth men who have stood for the 
highest ideals of honor and spiritual up-
lifting that have ever been revealed, since
the world began.


EDITORIAL NOTE.
	Interesting programs were rendered
March 17 by nearly all the Relief Societies
in the Church, so many indeed it would be
impossible to publish them all; but it is with
much pleasure that we read of the renewed
interest in Relief Society work these occa-
sions arouse and we trust the Latter-day
Saint women will always appreciate their
membership in this splendid organization.
There are reports from Payette, Cannon,
Liberty, Roy wards and many others.


[Column 1]
GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFER-
			ENCE. 
	The Conference of the General Relief So-
ciety of the Church was held in the Assem-
bly Hall, Salt Lake City, Utah, April 2nd
and 3rd, 1913, commencing Wednesday,
April 2nd, at 10 a. m., President Emmeline
B. Wells presiding. 
	The morning session opened with singing
“We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet.”
Prayer by Miss Sarah M. McLelland. Sing-
ing, “Softly Beams the Sacred Dawning.”
	President Emmeline B. Wells extended a
loving and tender greeting to those assem-
bled. She regretted the fact that the weather
was so stormy, but felt that this would not
mar the good effect of the conference, if we
all have sunshine in our hearts. She re-
gretted the fact that some have departed
from us since our last meeting, but felt no
sorrow for them; the only real sorrow we
should have is for those who go into outer
darkness. President Wells expressed the
hope that all the members of the Relief So-
ciety love, uphold, and sustain each other,
and that all are united in this great work of
love. 
	The work of the Lord is progressing. It
is a source of joy to know that another
temple is to be built, and this in Canada.
The growth in this direction will go on and
on, so that the salvation for the dead may be
more readily accomplished. 
	Mrs. Sarah P. Stohl of Box Elder Stake
responded to the President’s greeting. She
expressed joy and satisfaction in being per-
mitted once more to see and hear our be-
loved president. Felt that all should appre-
ciate the fact that our president knew per-
sonally the Prophet Joseph Smith, and knew
of his great desires to aid and uplift the
women of our people. She was pleased to
report Box Elder Stake in good condition. 
Weekly meetings have been inaugurated,
also department work, the older sisters

[Column 2]
meeting in one class and the young mothers
in another, each department taking up work
particularly fitting to its various needs. The
evolution of women has been discussed and
time has been spent on genealogical work. 
	Sister Verona B. Redd, secretary of Tay-
lor Stake, reported that much good is being
accomplished in this far away stake. The
people are intensely interested in their work,
and are steadily progressing. 
	She was followed by Mrs. Sarah McLel-
land, a member of the Board of Bannock
Stake. There are fourteen societies in this
stake, scattered over a large area of coun-
try. It is necessary to travel seventy-five
miles to reach one ward. The members are
all united, and the work is steadily growing. 
	Sister Alice Boomer represented Bingham
Stake, where there are ten societies and a
membership of four hundred. The class
work is especially good, being conducted by
competent class leaders. 
	Bro. George Pyper sang a tenor solo, “My
Native Land.”
	Benson Stake was reported by Mrs. Re-
becca Rawlins. The distinctive feature of
her report was that in this stake two sisters
have been appointed especially to call on all
the aged and sick and infirm, for the purpose
of giving them comfort and cheer.
	Mrs. Eleanor Squires reported Liberty
Stake, where the organization is new. In
this stake preparation meetings for officers
have been instituted and are very success-
ful. Among other things “Home Econom-
ics” has been taken up, and actual demon-
strations in cooking given. 
	By special request Bro. George Pyper
gave another solo, “O, My Father.” The
President expressed gratitude for this cour-
tesy, and asked that the audience give a ris-
ing vote of thanks to Bro. Pyper. 
	Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, President of
Pioneer Stake, and a member of the State
Legislature recently adjourned, then deliv-
ered an address, “Women in Social Ser-
vice.”
	Mrs. Cannon stated that outside of her
family and the Gospel nothing is so dear to
her as the Relief Society work, with all that
it has accomplished in its various fields. The
great opening for women in the world had
its beginning with the Latter-day Saints in
the organization of this powerful society,
which was the opening wedge. 
	The status of women today is very differ-
ent from what it was fifty years ago, great
changes have taken place and much progress
made.
	Woman has always had one opportunity
—the opportunity to work; this one thing
has never been denied her. Man has never
considered that she was out of her sphere
when she toiled in the fields and factories;
he has never criticized her for leaving her
home for any kind of drudgery; but when
she began to enter the professional field and
when she began to compete with men in the
great work of the world, she was reminded
that she was going out of her own sphere
and was neglecting her home. 
	After the key was turned for woman by
the Prophet Joseph Smith she began to look
around and to think; she felt that if she were
not out of her sphere in the working world,
she would not be out of her sphere in public
life; so she turned her eyes to education and
to general development, and little by little,
step by step, she has gained a prominent
place in the world’s work. 
	Last year much good was done in Amer-


[Column 1]
ica by the women, not only in suffrage
states, but in other states as well, and legis-
lative work has been greatly influenced by
them indirectly by the intelligent interest
they have manifested in public questions;
and, as this interest has grown, women have
had less time for novel reading and frivolous
amusements.
	There have been women in our State leg-
islature from time to time, and in the session
just closed we had three women in the
House of Representatives, all deeply inter-
ested in such legislation as would help to
uplift and benefit humanity. Some of the
social legislation worked for was secured,
and while some failed, it was only the be-
ginning of a campaign for better things
which will be ultimately successful.
	When it was recommended that the Juve-
nile Court be done away with because it
was only partially effective, the women rose
to the occasion; they were on the alert and
through their efforts the subject was recon-
sidered; and as the result the State of Utah
has one of the best Juvenile Court laws in
the world today.
	Another measure for which we are all
pleased is the minimum wage for women.
Utah is the first state to establish this law.
The least wage that can now be paid a girl
apprentice over sixteen, is seventy-five cents
a day, or $4.50 per week. Much was said
against this law by paid lobbyists, and it was
predicted that it would kill home industry.
This same prediction was made two years
ago with regard to the nine-hour law, but
no evil result has so far been seen. The
State Vice Commission in Chicago has been
discussing this same question and trying to
sift it to the bottom. They have found that
women do not receive a living wage and
girls sell their souls to live. They feel that
the question is beyond them and have ap-
pealed to President Wilson to call a con-
gress of governors to settle the question.
All thinking people may know that some-
thing is materially wrong when 95% of the
profits in a manufacturing business goes to
the manufacturer himself and only 5% goes
to the workers—the people who make the
business and put their whole lives into the
work.
	It is a great satisfaction to know that a
woman deputy is to be appointed in the State
department of Immigration, Labor and Sta-
tistics, and this seems highly appropriate
since 99% of the employees in the state,
aside from mining, smelting, and railroad-
ing, are women.
	We are extremely proud of the widowed
mother’s pension law, and proud of the men
and women who helped to bring it about.
It is much better, too, for the state to help
the mother care for her little ones and allow
her to train them when young than to have
in later years perhaps to support them in
penal institutions.
	Equal guardianship of children is another
good law accomplished through the efforts
of the women.
	Several good measures introduced by the
women failed, and among them the bill pro-
viding for the establishment of a girls’ dor-
mitory at the State University. This is the
first thing the women of the State in a
united body have asked for, and because of
the great need of such a home for outside
girls it is a matter of keen regret that the
measure failed.
	In the face of all these things, we can see
that women have a sphere beyond the home,

[Column 2]
and it is to be hoped that in the future the
women of the Relief Society will interest
themselves in all questions of social legisla-
tion and avail themselves of the opportuni-
ties they have to help bring about important
and needed reforms.
	Announcements were made and the ses-
sion closed with singing, “O Ye Mountains
High,” and prayer by Mrs. Sarah Jenne
Cannon.
		AFTERNOON SESSION.
	At 2 p. m. the conference was resumed.
The congregation sang “Hail to the Bright-
ness of Zion’s Glad Morning.”
	Prayer, Dr. Romania B. Penrose. Sing-
ing, “Earth with Her Ten Thousand
Flowers.”
	President Wells announced that the after-
noon session would be devoted to public
health problems. The speakers are all spe-
cialists in their lines and will no doubt give
very valuable information and instruction.
	Mrs. Alice M. Horne introduced the
speakers and their subjects.
	The first speaker was Dr. S. H. Paul,
Health Commissioner of Salt Lake City,
who took for his theme, “Saving the Babies
and the Value of Milk Depots.”
	Dr. Paul said he was especially pleased to
be able to talk to such a large audience, be-
cause to a great extent the efficiency of the
health department depended upon the un-
derstanding and co-operation of the public.
Many things the health authorities had at-
tempted, he said, had failed partially at first
because the reasons and necessity for certain
rules and regulations were not understood.
In illustrating this, Dr. Paul referred to con-
ditions of the city’s milk supply, which be-
fore the enactment and enforcement of the
present regulations were deplorable. At
first, he said, there was decided opposition
from milk producers, but more recently,
through co-operation of producers and dis-
tributors, Salt Lake’s milk supply compared
favorably with that of other cities.
	Dr. Paul spoke of the concerted attempts
of other cities to lower the rate of infant
mortality. In some cities he said that one
infant in five died before reaching one year
of age, and although conditions in Salt Lake
were vastly better than the average, at least
75% of the deaths of infants were from
ailments preventable through proper feeding,
and a large proportion were from milk unfit
before it reached the home. Dr. Paul said
that it was the purpose of the health depart-
ment to establish a milk depot where proper
milk could be furnished for infants, and to
engage trained nurses to instruct mothers
in the care and preparation of food for in-
fants.
	In providing proper milk for infants, he
said, the first requirement was to get good
milk of proper chemical composition, and
next to see that it was kept pure after it
was delivered to the home.
	Mrs. Emma Ramsey Morris gave a vocal
solo, “Fear Not Ye, O Israel,” and by spe-
cial request sang “Come, Come Ye Saints.”
	Prof. Jakob Bolin of the school of physical
education of the University of Utah, then
gave an entertaining and instructive talk on
the necessity for proper posture, explaining
the injurious effects of improper carriage
and describing exercises by which improper
posture may be corrected.
	He asserted that many women live in a
state of constant invalidism because of care-
lessness in this respect.
	Dr. W. Brown Ewing, nerve specialist,
was the next speaker. His address in full
appears in this paper.
	At the close of each lecture questions
were asked from the body of the house and
were answered by the speakers respectively.
	Congregation sang, “Come, Come Ye
Saints.”
	Closing prayer, Mrs. Emma A. Empey.
			(To be continued.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE CHILD—BORN AND UNBORN.
By W. Brown Ewing, read at General Re- 
		lief Society Conference.
	When a member of your committee asked
for this address I confess I was at a loss to
know just what ground to cover and just
what would be the most useful.
	As my work has been, for so many years,
entirely along mental and nervous lines I
naturally take up that phase of the subject. 
	It has often been said that “the hand that
rocks the cradle rules the world.” The
proper way to train a child is to begin with
its grandparents. The problems of caring 
for the fit and the unfit are entirely separate
and distinct. The education of children is a
vast problem that has not been fully worked
out.
	Environment, good or bad, has a wonder-
ful influence on the future mental welfare
of the child. But no surroundings however
good they may be, will compensate, in any
adequate degree, for a bad heredity and a
vitiated nerve cell formation. He who dis-
regards nature’s laws will surely pay the
penalty—sooner or later. Like will produce
like, just as surely as night follows day, in
the palace of the king or the hovel of the
pauper.
	If we remember that genius is essentially
abnormal, and direct the teaching along gen-
eral lines rather than toward fostering any
special bent, we will surely more nearly
reach the desired goal. Yet how often we
find the opposite course persisted in and the
precocious child encouraged along the one
line of his peculiar aptitude—a one-sided
brain development—and the abnormal ten-
dency strengthened rather than retarded. No
amount of cultivation will give good growth
when the nerve cells are few and ill-nour-
ished; but careful culture can do much
when there are those with strong inherent
impulses toward development. On neurol-
ogical grounds, therefore, nurture is to be
considered of much less importance than
nature, and in that sense the capacities that
we most admire in person’s worthy of re-
mark are certainly inborn rather than made
(Donaldson).
	To be efficacious, physical and mental
training should go hand in hand, so
that the mentality may not be ham-
pered by a weak body. Would you
wish a child to become an accomplished
musician or a lightning calculator and
yet need a guardian in the ordinary 
affairs of life? From such material are the
world’s feeble-minded and criminal classes
recruited.
	Every child is a separate and distinct
problem. The treatment that will strengthen
one nervous system may utterly ruin an-
other; and only by careful study and obser-
vation can you decide what course to pur-
sue. Children like or dislike intuitively and
their confidence may be secured or lost in a
moment’s time. Their confidence may be


[Column 1]
secured by a kind word or thoughtful act,
or lost by a careless word or deed. The
child has not yet been born whose love and
affection was gained by falsehood or deceit.
Study the child, even more assiduously than
the “alfalfa weevil,” for really the subject is
more worthy and more important. A “sane
mind is a sound body” is more important
than monetary consideration, for in the end
the difference may be the sorrows that ac-
company the little white casket and the beau-
tiful flowers. It costs no more to “raise” a
man capable of living for eighty years than
it does to “grow” one who has not the capac-
ity of living to be forty years old (Fisher.)
	To begin a child’s training with its grand-
parents simply means that children sprung
from unhealthy and abnormal parents will be
abnormal, and that they will start the battle
of life under a handicap. The strenuous-
ness of this life is hard enough on the here-
ditarily strong; what must it be on the one
who from the first is below par? The vast
experience that culminated in the Mendelian
theory enables us to predict, almost with
certainty, the relative fitness or unfitness of
the progeny of a given marriage. The re-
sults of an analysis of pedigrees of insane
subjects, and rules of theoretical expectation
as propounded by Mendel, and known as
the Mendelian laws, are as follows—
	1—Both parents being neuropathic, all
children will be neuropathic.
	2—One parent normal, but with neuropa-
thic taint from one parent, and the other par-
ent being neuropathic, half the children will
be neuropathic and half will be normal but
capable of transmitting the neuropathic
make-up to their progeny.
	3—One parent being normal and of pure
normal ancestry and the other parent being
neuropathic, all of the children will be normal
but capable of transmitting the neuropathic
make-up to their progeny.
	4—Both parents being normal, but each
with the neuropathic taint from one parent,
one-fourth of the children will be normal
and not capable of transmitting the neuropa-
thic make-up to their progeny, one-half
will be normal but capable of transmitting
the neuropathic make-up, and the remaining
one-fourth will be neuropathic.
	5—Both parents being normal, one of pure
normal ancestry and the other with a
neuropathic taint from one parent, all the
children will be normal, half of them will be
capable and half incapable of transmitting
the neuropathic make-up to their progeny.
	6—Both parents being normal and of pure
normal ancestry, all the children will be nor-
mal and not capable of transmitting the
neuropathic make-up in their progeny.
	What better inheritance could you wish
from your parents than a pure normal hered-
ity without taint of any kind? Can lands
and houses, and the cattle on a thousand
hills compensate for it? True it is that oc-
casionally a defective is born to normal par-
ents, but the relative infrequency of such an
occurrence only emphasizes the law of hered-
ity. The child born to a heritage of unrest
may not “outgrow it” regardless of the fa-
ble to the contrary so often quoted. He may
be trained out of it but he will “outgrow”
very few things but his cradle and
his clothes.
	The problem of caring for the unfit is
becoming more and more grave with each
succeeding year. When we must face it
squarely is only a problem in procrastina-
tion. We know that the vast majority of

[Column 2]
degenerates are the children of parents who
were insane, feeble-minded, epileptic, alco-
holic, or too closely related by blood. If this
statement holds good, it stands to reason that
the more profound the parental taint the
worse, the degeneracy. Shall our defective
population be allowed to increase without
restraint? Shall we continue to procrasti-
nate? Shall children be born who have very
little chance of life and almost none of real
usefulness? It seems only too true that “the
forests are protected, the hogs inspected and
the children neglected.”
	In your capacity as advisers in case of
sickness you can assist many whose oppor-
tunities have been limited or those over
whom fortune has spread a cloud that seems
to have no silver lining.
	If you could at the same time discourage
the marriage of the unfit—remembering that
only from healthy parents can healthy off-
spring result—you will accomplish a work
that future generations will remember with
gratitude. I know full well that very many
people select their life-mate with much less
care than would be bestowed on a new suit
or hat. It will be said that I would take
from love all the poetry—perhaps—yet I
would like to substitute good common sense
for poetry. The so-called Indiana Child
Creed that every child has the inalienable
right to be born free from disease, free from
deformity, and with pure blood; every child
has the inalienable right to be loved; to
have its individuality respected; to be
trained wisely in mind, body and soul: to be
protected from disease, from evil influences
and evil persons, and to have a fair chance
in life, holds good in this and every state.
We say that all rules are broken in case of
sickness, and the comforts of the well must
give way to the sick, yet I have known the
expectant mother to receive less considera-
tion and care than is bestowed on the lower
animals. Is it ignorance? Is it thought-
lessness? Or worse—is it a question of dol-
lars and cents? If she requires intelligent
care after a new life is ushered into the
world, she certainly does before. In the
present generation women underclad, under-
fed, overworked, cannot bear infants en-
dowed with an organism fit to stay; factory
children, with no light, no air, no resistance,
grow up, if at all, to ages in which they are
permitted to procreate their kind, only poor-
er (Jacob). Thus children are starved or de-
fectives before they are born, infected with
hereditary diseases, and destined to be born
only to perish.
	In the education of the mother, in the care
of herself and her baby, we have the strong-
est weapon for fighting infant mortality. The
prevention of infant mortality forces the
problem of tuberculosis into second place.
The United States government report for
1908 gives the mortality from every form of
tuberculosis, in the registration area, as 78,-
289: whereas the number of infant deaths
under one year of age total 136,432!
	A baby comes into the world with less
chance to live one week than an old man
of ninety, and less chance to live a year
than one of eighty. Is it not true that there
are too many short coffins sold in the United
States? More than 1000 infants, under one
year of age, die annually in this state. Dr.
Hope of Liverpool reports that the deaths
among children under three months of age
either wholly or partially fed on artificial
foods are fifteen times as great as they are
among an equal number of infants fed on

[Column 3]
breast-milk. Ten bottle-fed babies die to
one that is breast-fed. Partially from statis-
tics and partially from estimates 1,500,000
persons die annually in the United States,
630,000 of these from preventable diseases.
	The fundamental causes of infant mor-
tality are mainly the result of three condi-
tions—poverty, ignorance, and neglect.
	The head of the United States government
Children’s Bureau (Miss Julia Lathrop) has
this to say regarding infant mortality:
	“Most of us are very much shocked to
find that in the ten years from 1910 back to
1900, there came into the world at least two
and one half million children who died be-
fore they were one year old, slipping into
life and out again, unknown and unnum-
bered in any public way.”
	And yet is there not something worse than
infant mortality — disgraceful and waste-
ful as it is? The moral degenerates that fill
our prisons, the insane that fill our asylums,
all have to be reckoned with. If improper
marriages, vicious living, ignorance and pov-
erty pad the death roll, do they not also
leave us a certain class of human beings
characterized throughout life by certain pe-
culiarities, eccentricities, originality in some
useless way, oddities of manner, speech or
dress, non-conformity to the rules that gov-
ern the great body of mankind, these things
not amounting to true insanity, and yet being
usually by heredity closely allied to it, or by
evolution ending in it at last? No one has
lived long in the world without meeting
many examples. Some of these examples
are strikingly original, a genius in some
lines of work or thought, yet in the ordinary
affairs of life wanting in those traits that
bring success, and capable of transmitting
to posterity an unstable mentality and a
vitiated heredity. The poor you have al-
ways with you, the mentally defective like-
wise; in the one case a distinctive hereditary
taint as a causative factor and at the same
time preventable, in the other a misfortune.
You can neither legislate nor educate pover-
ty from the world, but you can educate
hereditary mental defectives out of exist- 
ence.
	In your labors of love among the poorer
classes there is a vast field open to you, a
field that has not received the attention it
deserves, a field that by its newness begets
opposition in the ignorant, and yet a field of
work that will amply pay for all your time
and labor, and the result will be—what?—
Better children born and unborn.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SOCIETY OF THE UTAH HAND-CART
			PIONEERS.
	Three years ago today, April 14, 1910, a
little company of Hand-cart Pioneers and
daughters met at the home of Sister Hannah
Lapish in response to an invitation published
by her in the daily papers that all Hand-cart
Pioneers and daughters meet at her home.
Quite a number responded to the invitation,
and upon arriving were told by Sister Lap-
ish the object she had in view when she
called them together. She felt it was time the
Hand-cart Pioneers were recognized for the
part they took in the early history of our
Church and State. She had visited Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith, told him her desires
and received his approval. He blessed her
and told her to go ahead and organize and
he would do all he could to help her.
	Having received the sanction and blessing


[Column 1]
of President Smith and being urged by
Maria Y. Dougall, Zina Y. Card and other
daughters of the Pioneers, Sister Lapish de-
cided to call the Hand-cart Pioneers to-
gether and organize. Accordingly, she with
the help of Sister Dougall, who was present
by special request, proceeded to organize the
society to be known as the Utah Hand-Cart
Pioneers and Daughters. Mary A. Van
was chosen temporary chairman and Pearl
Woodmansee temporary secretary. Because
this society owes its origin to Hannah Lap-
ish, she was given the title of Founder Gen-
eral and was chosen President, with Sarah
Swift first counselor, and Emily Beebe sec-
ond counselor, Mary A. Van, secretary,
Pearl Woodmansee, corresponding secre-
tary, Anna Livingston, assistant secretary,
Jennie Careless, historian, Sarah Kedding-
ton, treasurer, Hannah Saunders, chaplain,
Mary S. Houtz, registrar, together with 39
charter members, and M. Y. Dougall, an
honorary member.
	Constitution and by laws were formed and
a committee, with Frances Armstrong as
chairman, appointed to read and report.
They were approved by the committee and
adopted by the society, whose object was to
commemorate and perpetuate the memory of
the sublime faith and heroic courage of the
Utah Hand-cart Pioneers, who for the sake
of their religion, journeyed on foot, draw-
ing their belongings in two-wheeled carts,
a distance of from one thousand to twelve
hundred miles, over barren country, inhabi-
ted only by wild animals and Indians.
	It shall be the purpose of this society to
collect and preserve an accurate history of
those memorable journeys with their indes-
cribable sufferings, hardships, and priva-
tions, and a display of more than ordinary
fortitude. And it is the subject of this soci-
ety to preserve the names of all those who
started to come to this then Territory by
hand-carts, whether they reached their desti-
nation or perished by the way.
	For this purpose we feel that a monument
should be erected in a public place, and all
these names inscribed upon it. Having this
object in view, a small bank was purchased,
and presented to the society by Sarah Swift,
and at each meeting it has a conspicuous
place on the table where members drop do-
nations from time to time.
	This being the third anniversary of our
society, it seems only fitting that we should
refresh our memories upon a few of the
things that have transpired during that time.
We have met on the 14th of each month,
and have had many interesting talks
from those who crossed the plains with
hand-carts; also words of encouragement
from Prest. Joseph F. Smith, John Henry
Smith, Seymour B. Young, and many
others. We have met twice each year with
the Hand-Cart Veterans, where interesting
times were had, and have had excursions
to Wandamere and many pleasant parties
at different homes.
	During all our little existence, we have
been fortunate in having the beautiful home
of our loved President Frances Armstrong
for our meeting place, and have received
many courtesies and pleasant surprises from
her hands. At the expiration of two years,
she was unanimously chosen our second
President, with Alicia Arnold first counsel-
or, and Jennie Careless second counselor.
Sister Lapish had served us well, and we
still feel she is the “back-bone” of the soci-
ety.

[Column 2]
	We have chosen red as our color, typical
of the flower called “Indian Paint Brush”
which grew in abundance at that time. Our
society pin is made of enamel in colors. We
also have a banner, hand painted by our
Founder-General, Hannah Lapish. This
also portrays the pulling of hand-carts
across the plains and was proudly carried
by our society in the big parade on the 24th
of last July.
	Since our organization people have
awakened to the fact that there was such a
thing as a Hand-cart Pioneer and many
inquiries have come from all over the state,
showing great interest in the organization.
While we know we are still in our infancy,
yet we feel we will, as Sister Dougall said
we would, come to the front and be a lead-
ing society in Utah. We have come to the
front, and are being recognized. This was
proven at our recent conference, when we
were called together by our honored Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith and counselors, and
entertained by them, and such men as Elders
Francis M. Lyman, Orson F. Whitney,
James E. Talmage, Bishop Heber S. Iver-
son, the Old Folks Choir, and others.
	We are proud of our society and the fact
that our pioneers and parents pulled hand-
carts across the plains. When we sing our
hand-cart song, “Some Must Push and 
Some Must Pull,” we feel, with Brother
Heber C. Kimball, that we have pushed and
pulled our way to Zion. Now we must keep
pushing and pulling to get into the Kingdom
of God.
					MARY A. VAN
							Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		BEAR RIVER STAKE.
	Bear River Stake Relief Society confer-
ence was held in the Garland Social Hall,
Jan. 16th, 1913, at 10 and 2 o’clock.
	President Margaret W. Manning, presid-
ing.
	There were present, First Counselor of the
Stake Presidency, P. M. Hansen, five High
Councilors, two bishops, one member of
high priests’ quorum, five members of the
Y. M. M. I. A. and Y. L. M. I. A. stake
boards, two ward teachers, two members of
Primary stake board, and one member of
Stake Religion class; Sisters Julia Farns-
worth and Elizabeth McCune of the General
Board, ten stake board members and a very
good representation of officers and members
from the various wards.
	Singing, Now Let us Rejoice.
	Prayer, Bro. J. P. Christenson.
	Singing, Sweet is the work, My God.
	Pres. Margaret W. Manning made the
opening remarks. Felt very grateful for the
good attendance at our conference and
thought the sisters had a great deal of faith
to enable them to get out so early and come
so far to conference; felt the Lord would
certainly bless them for so doing; felt grate-
ful that so many of the Priesthood were
able to meet with us; was more than pleased
to announce that we had two sisters of the
General Board with us, Sisters Julia Farns-
worth and Elizabeth McCune. They had ex-
pressed a desire to hear the local presidents
report the different societies, which was very
ably done.
	Duet. Sisters Lucetta Thompson and
Mame Shumway.
	Sister McCune: There is an excellent

[Column 2]
spirit in our midst; had lived in the country
and knew the extra effort the sisters had
to make to come so far. The Lord will
certainly bless us for all the efforts we put
forth to do our duty. Was very much
pleased with the reports that had been given
on the storing of grain and other Relief
Society work; encouraged the sisters to
continue in gathering grain; advised them
not to sell all of it at once, but felt we
should keep some always on hand; had
worked in the Temple and was very much
interested in work for our dead. President
Joseph F. Smith gave the General Board as
a mission, the making and keeping of tem-
ple clothes on hand; urged Relief Society
presidents to keep two or three suits on
hand in case of emergency. Mothers should
teach their daughters to come to the temples
properly dressed; felt it would be lovely for
girls to make their own dainty little temple
suits to be married in, instead of spending
so much time on their silks and satins.
	Sister Julia Farnsworth: Had enjoyed
the spirit of conference; thanked the sisters
for the warm welcome they had given them;
felt the gospel brings us nearer together
and makes us more or less acquainted.
Mothers should not neglect homes, hus-
bands, and children for public duties; urged
the sisters to do all they could in temple
work.
	Pres. P. M. Hanson made encouraging
remarks, and commended the sisters for
their faithful and energetic work in Relief
Society.
	Singing, The Happy Day has Rolled on.
	Prayer, Bro. J. E. Dewey.
	During the noon hours a wholesome lunch
was served to all present by the Garland
Relief Society sisters, the same having
been prepared by sisters from the different
societies.
	Afternoon session.
	Singing, Now let us Anew.
	Prayer, Bro. David Manning.
	Sister Julia Farnsworth: Thought the
attendance very good for so small a stake;
had been a member of the Relief Society for
thirty-seven years; read a sketch of the life
and mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith;
referred back to the council in heaven, and
mentioned the many incidents down through
the ages of men that were necessary for the
restoration of the Gospel, and the coming
of the Prophet Joseph Smith; portrayed
beautifully his youth and first vision; pic-
tured on through the struggles of life, how
he was fitted to fill his glorious mission.
	Sister McCune said: When talking of
the prophet it always brings a good spirit;
spoke of genealogical classes that were be-
ing organized in the Church; urged all to
join that could; encouraged family reunions,
so they could organize and help each other
in doing work for their dead. It is wonder-
ful what can be accomplished if we only
put forth our efforts; spoke of temptations
menacing us, especially the young. Parents
must be ever on the alert watching and
help to keep them clean and pure; spoke of
the evils in cities where young people went
to supper after dances and theaters, the
temptations there awaiting them.
	Sister Farnsworth said if we would be
loyal to the Exponent it would be printed
in magazine form and contain and outline.
	Ester C. Evans: Felt we had had a splen-
did conference; felt grateful for the visit-
ing sisters that were with us; said we had
made progress in our work and study in the


past year; felt anxious that we continue on
through the new year, and knew we would
if we would do our part and work unitedly
together. Prayed the Lord’s blessings on
us all.
	Conference was then adjourned for six
months.
	Singing, Abide with Me.
	Closing prayer, Hannah E. Loveland.
				EFFIE I. WELLING,
						Sec. Pro Tem.

		ST. JOSEPH STAKE.
	The Semi-Annual conference of the Re-
lief Societies of the St. Joseph Stake con-
vened at the meeting-house in Thatcher,
Sunday March the 9th, 1913, beginning at
10 a. m. We had no visitors from the Gen-
eral Board. President Elizabeth Layton and
counselors and all members of the Stake
Board present; also Stake President An-
drew Kimball and Counselors, members of
High Council, Patriarchs Claridge and Bar-
ney, and a number of Bishops from the dif-
ferent wards, which was quite an encourag-
ing feature. The morning singing was con-
gregational and the time spent in executing
the business part of the program.
	First Counselor Selena Phillips, who was
in charge, welcomed the sisters; hoped they
would gain renewed courage and interest in
attending our conferences, for there is so
much we can do to build ourselves up in the
work of the Lord. Spoke of utilizing our
spare moments in reading and informing
our minds on the various subjects which will
fit us to perform our parts in life.
	Reports, written and verbal, from several
of the wards were given, and a solo “At
Last” was beautifully rendered by Sister
Effie Montierth. Reports resumed, all
showing fairly good work done along the
lines of Relief activities.
	Sister Mary K. Taylor spoke by way of
encouragement to the teachers, explaining
the duties of this high calling, and urged
that they magnify their work along this
line. Said they should seek to understand
the principles of the Gospel, for we cannot
give what we do not possess. Said they
should seek the Lord in earnest prayer to be
inspired as to what is most needed in the
homes they visit. Their work is also to
relieve the needy, to comfort the mourners,
and in all things seek to do that which
tends to better and higher conditions in life
among the Saints. Said we must put forth
every effort to have all the married sisters
enrolled in the Relief Society.
	Sister Josephine Kimball, who recently
visited the Franklin Ward, which is about
sixty miles away, reported the Society in a
very prosperous condition, the sisters feeling
well in their work, their meetings resumed
after a siege of sickness, and a determina-
tion on their part to do better and more
efficient work. Had held a re-union and
entertainment by which they had replenished
their funds. All felt well and an enjoyable
time was had.
	The Stake Relief Society officers were
presented and unanimously sustained. Sis-
ter Alice Pace was added to the Board.
Meeting was adjourned until 2 p. m.
	Singing, “Zion prospers, all is well.”
	Benediction was pronounced by Laura
Barney.
	Conference was resumed at 2 p. m. The
session was held in connection with the reg-
ular Sabbath services. The choir sang some

[Column 2]
beautiful hymns and anthems, and a solo
was given by Sister Lottie Larson. Invoca-
tion was offered by Elder A. Barney, and
benediction was pronounced by President
John F. Nash. After the administration of
the sacrament, the meeting was given over
to the sisters and conference was resumed.
	The statistical and financial report for
the year of 1912 was read, showing an in-
crease in attendance at the meetings.
Through the efforts of the sisters a new
steel elevator has been built, with a capacity
of one thousand bushels, and in which they
have stored four hundred and fifty bushels
of wheat. A great deal of charity work
has been accomplished, not alone among our
own people, but the refugees from Mexico
have been gladly assisted in many ways.
	President C. M. Layton advised that, if
possible, the wheat now stored be disposed
of for cash, and when next harvest time
comes, fill the elevator with wheat of a su-
perior quality. Felt that the sisters were
doing a good work, and that the attendance
was equal to or better than the attendance
of any organization in the Stake. Urged
young mothers to join the society, and get
the good from it which is given in the dif-
ferent subjects taught. We should not
slacken our efforts to make our societies the
best in the world.
	Second Counselor Frances Kimball gave
a talk on the education of our girls—the
true education—wherein they might be
taught their high and holy mission which
they were sent on earth to perform, that of
the sacredness of motherhood. Deplored
the fact that the shrinking from this respon-
sibility was gaining ground among our Lat-
ter-day Saint girls. Showed the sin of this
evil and strongly urged mothers to teach
their daughters that no mission could equal
that of bringing into the world those spirits
held in reserve in the spirit world, which
God has ordained to assist in the consumma-
tion of this great latter-day work. Thought
we should be more conservative in our dress,
amusements, food, etc.
	Sister Emma B. Coleman spoke of our
several duties as Latter-day Saints, as mem-
bers of the Relief Society, and as mothers
in Israel. Said if we taught our children
to live and love the Gospel while they are
young, when they grow up, though they
might possibly stray away for a time, they
will have something to remember and event-
ually come back to, while those who have
been neglected, have nothing to remember
with love, and may never come back.
	A recitation, “What has she done? and
the reply,” was given by Sister Emma Mer-
rill.
	President Andrew Kimball read an “Anti-
cigarette bill,” now being discussed in the
Legislature and likely to become a law, and
made comment thereon. This has been got-
ten up mostly through the influence of the
Parents’ Class of the Sunday School, and
hoped that the efforts put forth would not
be in vain. Spoke of tithing and obedience

[Column 3]
to the Priesthood. Said no Board has a
right to change, add to or take from their
officers without the advice and consent of
those placed over them. Each Society
should have credit for their public work,
for waiting on the sick and attending to the
dressing of the dead. Advised that there be
a sufficient number on the Board to visit
every Society once a month or often-
er. Prayed God to bless all engaged in Re-
lief Society work.
	President E. W. Layton made closing re-
marks, thanking all for their attendance and
the choir for their beautiful singing. An-
nounced that conference would be adjourned
for six months.
		JOSEPHINE CLUFF KIMBALL.
						Stake Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.
ANN OLIVER YOUNG, A HANDCART VETERAN.
	Mrs. Ann Oliver Young, widow of the late
“Uncle” John Young, eldest brother of Presi-
dent Brigham Young, died Dec. 24, at 9:30
a. m. at the home of her brother, Samuel Oliver
in East Mill Creek.
	Mrs. Young was born Sept. 26th, 1832, at
Whaddon, Cambridgeshire, England. She be-
came a member of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints in 1851; in 1856, she emi-
grated to Utah in one of the hand-cart com-
panies of that year, arriving here in Septem-
ber. In 1857, she was married to John Young
and continued to reside in Salt Lake City until
1873, when she moved to East Mill Creek and
took up her residence with her brother, Samuel
Oliver. “Aunt” Ann was a consistent Latter-
day Saint and proved faithful to every obliga-
tion. Of a modest and retiring disposition,
she rarely spoke of the trials and hardships
through which she passed during the early set-
tlement of Utah. Her passing removes an-
other of the hand-cart veterans, whose heroic
fortitude is an inspiration to those who are
acquainted with this portion of the history of
the Latter-day Saints.
	Mrs. Young had no children of her own, but
has been a mother to the seven children of
her brother, Samuel Oliver, who were deprived
of a mother’s care at an early age. These, with
the nine grandchildren, have been her constant
care.


“THY WILL BE DONE.”
’Tis true in life we oft must yearn—
	Wail o’er an infant’s empty cot;
Some go away that ne’er return.
	But O, the home is ne’er forgot.
We weep when God our loved one calls,
	’Mid falling tears we yield him up;
We tremble when the cold sod falls
	And we must drink the bitter cup.
Some at the altar we must leave,
	Yield unto man the love we prize;
And pray they ne’er may rue or grieve,
	While tears that blister fill our eyes.
Why cannot we be more content—
	Our God gave, He may take away;
Disguised sometimes are blessings sent,
	O say “Thy will be done” alway.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.


R. K. THOMAS CO.,		67-69 MAIN STREET,
						SALT LAKE CITY.
	The most becoming Styles in Ladies’
	Suits, Coats, Dresses, Skirts, and
	Waists at Popular Prices.
THE STORE WHERE YOU CAN FEEL AT HOME


<Marilla M. Daniels>
					WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
		The Organ of the Latter-day Saints’ Woman’s Relief Society.
Vol. 47.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE, 1913			No. 8.


CONTENTS.
Julia Cruse Howe.........................................	57
An Interesting Letter....................................	59
The Utah Chautauqua..................................	59
Aunt Lenora Morley....................................	59
Taking a Stand for the Right......Ida S. Peay	61
Sketch of the East Bountiful Relief Society	62
A Visit to Nauvoo.......................................	62
“Well Done, Good and Faithful Servant”
............................................Lydia D. Alder	64
The N. E. A................................................	64
Relief Society Reports:
	Yellowstone Stake..............................	63
	Los Angeles Branch...........................	63
	Nebo Stake.........................................	63
Editorial:
	General Relief Society Conference...	60
In Memoriam:
	Mary Jane White Hinman.................	58
	Ellen Thueson....................................	58
	Annie W. Larson................................	64
	Emma Smith Featherstone.................	64
Poetry:
	An Exile’s Prayer...............................	57
	Evening..............................................	59


AN EXILE’S PRAYER.
		(Inscribed to F. L. J.)
Father in heaven, hear the exile’s prayer,
A prayer of thousands scattered where, oh
	where.
Our feet are weary, in strange paths we roam,
Our hearts are aching for the dear old home.
We long to see the morning sun arise
Painting in rainbow tints the deep blue skies;
The bright rays glancing through the green
	pine trees,
Their sylvan music floating on the breeze.
Just as we’ve watched and lingered many a
	year
To see a new day dawning, bright and clear,
Dispelling gloom, and every shade of night,
As in the morning of creation’s light.
We long for each loved valley, mount and plain
To hear the children’s voices there again;
The hazy moonlight, and dear evening star,
They do not seem the same, so far, so far,
From the home shrines our willing hands have
	reared
Hearts all undaunted, that no danger feared;
And Thou hast blest us, and we trust Thee
	still,
Schooling our feelings to Thy righteous will.
We long to climb the hills and gather flowers
Blooming in nature’s own sweet sunny bowers;
We long for mountain peak, and grassy plain;
We long to hear our own wild birds again.
Once more to till the soil, to sow and reap,
To cheer the hearts that sorrow now, and weep,
To gather home again our scattered band,
And help reclaim our desecrated land.
We fain would clasp each hand, and hear the
	song
Of jubilee ring out deep, clear and strong,
To gather ’neath our church’s shadowy wing
To hear our choir the songs of Zion sing.
There rest our loved ones free from every care
Beneath the waving grass, and flowers fair;
Sacred the spot, so dear to every heart;
These, too, are of our lives and souls a part.
Here by the wayside, our beloved sleep;
By the lone grave we sorrow still, and weep;
Our Father whisper peace and heal our pain,
Help us to live, until we meet again.
Fond memories cling around those days, we
	never can forget,
Where e’er we are, where e’er we roam until
	life’s sun is set;
For deep heart throbs were woven into that
	web of life,
Where mingle threads of anguish, pain and
	joy and strife.


Hearts still will throb and tremble, when love's
	fingers touch the strings;
Sweet music blend with sorrow, where a lin-
	gering cadence rings;
Our mountains, rivers, valleys cast a halo on
	the soul,
That will touch the hills eternal, when life's
	billows cease to roll.
						S. E. R.,
April 28, 1913.		Mesa City, Arizona.


[Column 1]
		JULIA CRUSE HOWE.
	“Sweet thoughts are mirrored in her face
	And every motion is a grace.”
	Sincerely indeed, will these words find re-
sponse in the hearts of those readers whose
privilege it has been to come within the 
charmed circle whom Sister Howe calls
friends. To the writer, she has always 
seemed the embodiment of gentle dignity in
which refinement and culture and natural 
grace were combined.
	Having just completed her ninetieth year,
she is one of the few who are left to us
from among that group of close friends
which included Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H.
Young, Bathsheba W. Smith, Elmina S.
Taylor, Presindia L. Kimball, M. Isabella
Horne, Sarah M. Kimball, Hannah T. King,
Elizabeth J. Stevenson, Maria W. Wilcox,
Elizabeth Howard, and our dear “Aunt
Em” Wells, most of whose names are found 
inscribed with loving tributes in the auto-
graph album of Sister Howe.
	To one born in Utah, after the pioneer
stage was passed, the life story of a woman
like Sister Howe is full of peculiar interest,
although much must of necessity be omitted
in one brief sketch.
	Julia Cruse was born at Boxford, near
Newberry, Berkshire, England, on the sev-
enteenth of June, 1823. Her parents were 
James and Mary Joyce Cruse, and to them
were born six girls and one boy, of which
children Julia was the youngest.
	A religious influence pervaded their
home. The children were taught to read

[Column 2]
the scriptures; family prayer was conducted
morning and evening, and the parents lived 
up to the best light and knowledge they
possessed. In spite of this condition, Julia
was not satisfied. “She to higher hopes
was destined,—in a finer mould was
wrought, and tempered with a purer flame.”
	The teachings in the Church of England
concerning infant baptism and hell were
responsible for her state of mind, and she
could not see the justice in condemning
pure little children to everlasting punish-
ment merely because parents failed to have
them christened. The death of a beloved 
companion who had not been christened
was also a great source of sorrow to Julia
because of this belief.
	While grieving for her friend and think-
ing she had gone to hell, Julia had a dream 
in which she went in a beautiful chariot to 
a city whose streets were paved with gold,
and all else was in keeping. As a jeweled
door swung open for Julia to enter one of
the mansions, she awoke with the thought
that she had visited Heaven and her ideas
were so changed thereby that she grieved
for her friend no more.
	Owing to ill health, several years of the
young girl’s life were spent with a married
sister, on the Isle of Wight.
	She became engaged to a young man of
good character and returned home to pre-
pare for her marriage.
	She found the household in confusion and 
her mother in tears because an older sister
had “disgraced” the family by joining the
“Mormons.”
	Her father being spiritually minded, said
to the weeping mother, “He that judgeth a 
matter before hearing it, is not wise.”
	Being thoroughly familiar with the
scriptures, but a short time was needed to 
convince Julia that her sister’s belief was in
accordance therewith, and soon she became
converted and was baptized into the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints on April
6th, 1849, and afterward both her parents 
joined the Church.
	An estrangement now having come be-
tween herself and her betrothed, Julia and
her sister left England for America in June,
1849.
	Before they left England, her father
blessed the daughters and to Julia, gave 
the promise that she should live to do a 
work of great importance, that her parents
would not live to accomplish. Upon arriv-
ing in America the Cruse sisters located in
St. Louis, Missouri, where they passed
through many interesting and some trying 
experiences, one being a fire which burned
almost everything they had, but through
the assistance of warm friends and their
own efforts they were soon made comfort-
able again.
	While in St. Louis, Julia met Amos
Howe, a skilled mechanic who was identi-
fied with the local branch of the Church.
In June, 1850, she became his wife, and for
fourteen years the Howes lived in St. Louis
and New York, where Mr. Howe was en-
gaged in construction work involving great


[Column 1]
responsibility, and where his superior abili-
ties along this line were highly appreciated.
	During these years five children were
born to them. The eldest two died in in-
fancy, leaving three sons, Edgar, George,
and Charles.
	They kept open house for the Elders and
had the pleasure of entertaining many dis-
tinguished members of our Church, among
them being Apostles Erastus Snow, George
A. Smith and Joseph F. Smith.
	In 1864 they came to Utah, locating in
Salt Lake City, where they found a warm
welcome awaiting them by the many whom
they had so hospitably entertained. Mr.
Howe became one of the strong business
men of the community.
	Sister Julia has been an indefatigable
worker in the various Church organiza-
tions, almost from the time they were be-
gun, until failing health and advanced age
necessitated quiet and rest.
	She acted as a teacher and afterward as
treasurer of the Seventeenth Ward Relief
Society. She organized a sewing class to
assist the Relief Society, which was called
the Junior Retrenchment association, and
this afterward became the Mutual Improve-
ment Association, of which Sister Howe
was President, for quite a number of years.
When the Primary Associations were estab-
lished she was made President of the Ward
association, and she served also as an aid
in the Relief Society Board of the old Salt
Lake Stake. She was a Sunday School
teacher for many years, and quite a num-
ber who were associated with Sister Howe
in Sunday School, Mutual, or Primary
work, and who were taught by her have
since attained prominent positions in various
Church organizations. Among these might
be mentioned Sister Maria Y. Dougall,
Clarissa S. Williams, Ann D. Groesbeck,
Elizabeth C. McCune, and Ida Felt; also
Brother George Albert Smith and others.
Her testimony of the gospel was always
most fervent and convincing.
	It was Sister Howe’s custom in years
gone by to entertain the widows and or-
phans and others in the ward who were
less fortunate than herself. She was most
generous in her contributions, spiritually,
physically and financially, and both she and
Brother Howe were ever ready to give of
their substance at all times to assist in the
work of the Lord.
	In these labors of love, Sister Howe en-
shrined herself in the hearts of hundreds
who have been blessed and benefited by her
wise counsels, her kindly admonitions, and
above all, by the beautiful example of her
daily life.
	“A spirit pure as hers, is always pure,
even while it errs, as sunshine broken in a
rill, though turned aside, is sunshine still.”
The prophetic promise of her father has
been fulfilled, not alone in the faithful per-
formance of these public duties, but in her
unceasing efforts to obtain genealogical data
and carry on her Temple work. For the
purpose of obtaining more complete records
she visited her birthplace in 1886 and was
highly successful in her quest. It is worthy
of note that she has lived to have the work
done for every one of the hundreds whose
record she was able to obtain. And now
at the age of four score years and ten she
rests quietly in her comfortable home await-
ing almost anxiously for the Father’s call.
	Perhaps no more fitting close could be

[Column 2]
given to this imperfect little sketch than to
quote the words written on a page of Sister
Howe’s album  by one of her “girls.”
	“The beauty of holiness beaming through
your life is an energy of moral suasion
greater than precept, command, or warn-
ing. The seen but silent beauty of holiness
speaks more eloquently of God and duty
than the tongues of men and angels.”
			MAY BOOTH TALMAGE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.
MARY JANE WHITE HINMAN, RELIEF SOCIETY
	PRESIDENT OF ALBERTA STAKE.
	On Sunday, April 20th, were held the
funeral services over the remains of Mary
Jane White Hinman. The tabernacle
at Cardston was almost filled with sympa-
thizing friends. As the large number of
relatives and fellow workers entered the
building, the congregation arose en masse.
Following immediately behind the sorrow-
ing husband and children, were the fellow
workers in the Relief Society, representing
most of the wards in the stake. Nearly all
were dressed in white and bearing the many
and most beautiful floral offerings, the scene
was of solemn grandeur and one long to be
remembered by all present. The services
throughout were most impressive. Symp-
thetic and comforting remarks were made
by Elders Johannes Anderson, Josiah A.
Hammer, Ammon Mercer, David H. Elton,
James T. Brown, President Edward J.
Wood, Patriarch H. M. Brown, and Sister
Sarah B. Davis of the stake board of Relief
Society. Elders Thomas Duce and Sterling
Williams made the opening and closing
prayers respectively. Beautiful music was
rendered by the choir and a quartet, consist-
ing of Mrs. Grace Cazier, Mrs. Ida Brown,
and Frank Layne and A. B. Cure. The
soloist for the occasion was Mrs. Mary
Leadbetter.
	Mary Jane White Hinman was born at
Farmington, Utah, April 5, 1853, where she
lived with her parents until her marriage
with Henry L. Hinman Nov. 18, 1874. She
continued to make her home here until she
moved to Canada in June, 1890. There were
born to her in Farmington three sons and
three daughters, and after her arrival in
Cardston two more sons were born. Jan-
uary, 1892, she was chosen counselor to
Zina Y. Card in the Y. L. M. I. A., which
position she held until August, 1894, when
she was appointed president of the Y. L.
M. I. A. in the Cardston ward. Two years
later, on Aug. 24, 1896, Aunt Jane was
chosen as second counselor to Mary L.
Woolf in the Relief Society in the Alberta
stake, which position she held until Nov. 14,
1909, when she was appointed president.
This position she held up to the time of her
death. She was a true, faithful Latter-day
Saint, and was ever ready to defend the
faith. She was loved by all associated with
her. She was one of the few who could
always be depended upon and whose word
was seldom if ever broken. During the past
two years she has suffered greatly. Sister
Hinman died April 13th at the Latter-day
Saints hospital, Salt Lake City, following
an operation, surrounded by sorrowing
friends and loved ones. A funeral service
was held in the undertaking parlors, about

[Column 2]
forty Canadians being present, among them
both of her counselors and the stake Relief
Society treasurer. The body was then
shipped to Cardston, and was met at Great
Falls by her sons Scott and Willard. As
the train which bore the remains drew near
the band played “Nearer My God to Thee,”
in the presence of friends who had gathered
there to do honor to the departed sister.
	The sympathy of the whole community is
with those who mourn, especially with the
bereaved husband who is in his seventy-sixth
year, and who for the past twenty-three
years has been cared for by his devoted wife.
			JANE W. BATES, Stake Sec.

		ELLEN THUESON.
				Monroe, April 6, 1913.
	In memory of Sister Ellen Thueson, an old
and esteemed member of the Relief Society,
of the Monroe South ward, who departed this
life March 10, 1913.
	As God has seen fit to take from us our
beloved sister, be it
	Resolved, That we the officers and members
of the Monroe South Ward Relief Society, do
acknowledge the hand of God in all things, and
extend our heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved
family of the departed.
	Resolved, That we follow the example she
has left us, in trying to live a life as near to
hers as possible.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions
be given to the family, and a copy be sent to
the Woman’s Exponent.
	Sister Ellen Thueson was blessed and set
apart as second counselor to Sister Christina
Sorenson, at Orson Magleby’s, then acting
bishop, on the fourth day of December, 1898.
	She held that position faithfully for a period
of ten years. She was always a faithful mem-
ber and a guiding star in all our Relief Society
work, until the sickness that caused her death.
	May we follow her example in God’s noble
cause.
							JANE NAY.
			To the Family.
	Dear friends and bereaved relatives: In be-
half of the Monroe South Ward Relief Society,
I will read a few lines in love and sympathy
with the bereaved, and in fond remembrance of
Sister Ellen Thueson; no one, only those
who have lived by and learned to love her, will
know how we will miss her loving presence
and wise counsel, from every nook and corner
of the Relief Society work.
	God has called a noble spirit,
		One whom we all shall miss,
	With her wise advice and counsel
		And her face of cheerfulness.
	One could feel the Holy influence
		Of a spirit filled with love,
	She has earned a crown of glory,
		An eternal home above.
	Her life was not a path of roses,
		But how patiently she tread,
	Heeding not the thorns that pierced her,
		Nor life’s sorrows as they fled.
	In her long life of sacrifice
		She heeded not the strain
	Nor marked the slowly ebbing tide
		Of life’s enduring pain.
	As mother daily toiled she on
		What sweeter thought to you,
	Embracing all that’s pure and good
		Your friend, both tried and true.
	Mourn her not too deeply,
		Time alone we know can heal,
	The loss of her loving presence,
		Which you now so deeply feel.
	Live a life both pure and noble,
		Let her be your guiding star,
	For she loves and will await you
		In her heavenly home afar.
						MRS. JANE NAY.
	Monroe, Utah, Mar. 12, 1913.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EVENING.
	This poem recently won a gold medal award-
ed by the London Poet’s Club.

Beyond all poesy, sublimity of song.
Sweet eventide, when mellow shadows throng
The valleys, and the slow, reluctant day,
On purple sandals, gliding, steals away
Into the gloaming by the sleeping streams,
A pensive spirit passing unto dreams. 
It is the hour when woods enchanted glow,
And gentle winds with dying odors blow.
From tree to tree faint pipes of evening call,
The bat sweeps circling by the ivied wall,
A lark drops fluttering to his lowly nest.
And drowsily the ringdove croons of rest.
The moan of kine has ceased, the drone of
	bees,
But ever a little stream among the trees
Speeds lightly on, and singeth as it goes,
Songs that a child at evening might compose,
Now the sun's flight is finished in the west,
Where far the great clouds veil his flaming
	crest,
The shepherd pens his weary flock away,
Safe folding laggard little ones that stray,
Bidding them browse awhile ere darkness steep
All things that move, in deep, embrowned
	sleep. 
High uplands as at early morning shine,
Sacred the light that gilds the day's decline,
As when the dawn with holy eyes appears
And opening blossoms sparkle with her tears,
For gross, foreboding day, which climbs the
	east, 
Calling the world to work, and fight, and
	feast,
The cunning day, the fierce, insistent hours
Of human strife with Nature's dreadful pow- 
	ers,
The groaning of a being chained to earth,
Although ablaze with vision from his birth.
But, come, the evening calls us, let us go,
We must not sorrow because earth hath woe.
A passion lingers in this serene air,
A passion void of triumph or despair.
Empty of storm, and hushed to calm delight,
We turn our eyes to greet the coming night.
The stars are streaming up the boundless hills,
The stars which smile at men's inconstant
	wills,
And in an opal radiance, crescent-wise,
The moon peers coldly from the limpid skies.


[Column 1]
	AN INTERESTING LETTER.
	An interesting letter from the recent
flooded district:
				Peru, Ind., May 15, 1913.
My Dear Grandma:
	Now that conditions are getting back to
normal I know you will be interested to hear
from me regarding the recent flood. As
perhaps you know, we had a rainy Easter
Sunday and not until seven o’clock Monday
morning did it stop, then the sun came out
and it looked as though the rain must be
all past. I went to town to do my market-
ing, and hearing that the Wabash river was
rising, I with a friend went down to see it.
About noon we returned to her home and
had luncheon, planning to go about a mile
up stream in the afternoon to the mouth of
the Wississinewa river, as we could hear
the roar of the water, and wanted to see the
sight. However, it started raining again
and we decided to wait, but at five o’clock
it had not stopped so we gave it up and I
returned home. All night the rain came
down and when I tried to phone my friend
Tuesday morning “central” told me the
wires in that neighborhood were down and
there was a foot of water around her home.
I hurried to town and when I reached the
Court House corner one block away I could
see the river was over its banks and already
one block of the business district was in-

[Column 2]
undated, and the water still rising. Every
one was talking about the high water mark
having been passed and as our city is nearly
level and I then was only about two squares
from the water, I thought I better get in 
some provisions. You see I was all alone
as Gene left Monday morning for Fort
Wayne. I first bought a pair of rubber
boots, then walked over to my friend’s house
or rather to within a half block of it, for
then I was in water up to my boot tops.
Their house is on a very high foundation
and she and her family were all right, as
they have an upper story. Her house is
farther from the river than mine, but that
part of the city is lower. I went back to
town and bought a big stock of canned
goods, oil stove, lamps and some alcohol. In
the store they were so busy I had to grind
my own coffee (eight lbs.) and carry all my
purchases home. I bought the largest
washtub I could and caught it full of rain
water, besides filling everything in the
house. The city water by this time was unfit
for use. I worried considerable about Gene
at first until I was told Fort Wayne was
higher, and then I felt better. We were
cut off from the outside world and I did not
know that he, too, was in a flooded country.
Tuesday night he heard about Peru and
tried to get word from me, but could not
nor could he get back here. Still he felt I
was safe as our apartment is on the second
floor and is built of brick. Then we are
only one block west of the court house, and
that is the highest point. We were both
mighty glad and thankful when we found
each other safe and well, Friday night. He
had to walk from Chili, about ten miles
north of here. I took in eight refugees and
the apartment opposite being vacant, we
fitted that up with spare things. The men
carried furniture from down stairs, and in
all we had about twenty-three to cook for
on a little alcohol stove. By this time we
had bought more canned goods, and we ate
mostly cold things, saving the alcohol to
make hot coffee. Everyone had their own
dishes, as washing them was impossible,
water was too valuable. The gas, water and
heat were now all off and we all had to
hang around the oil stove to keep the chill
off. Some of us crowded around that while
others slept, but I could not have slept for
the roar of the water was maddening. My
telephone still was working and the chief
operator and the other girls talked to us to
keep up their courage. They had nothing
to eat so I made a bucket of coffee and
boiled some eggs and took this, together
with some canned goods, over to them. The
exchange is a square away, but with my
boots I made one trip all right, later I sent
it over in a boat each time. Wednesday it
snowed, and this added to the suffering.
Most of the refugees were crowded in the
court house and library, and they had no
heat. Thursday the water started to go
down, and as three of the men in our party
were connected with the Brown Auto Truck
factory, on the north side where the water
was deep, they got a boat and went over to
investigate. While they were in the factory
some one took their boat. They sent word
to us by way of “central” and we took an-
other out, and I went along. The sights I
saw on this trip I will never forget. Still I
have since seen worse in South Peru, where 
nearly everything was wrecked.
	Everything considered, we have much to

[Column 3]
thank our Lord for. Hoping this finds you
well and happy, I am always
	Your loving grandchild,
				ELEANOR SEARS.


THE UTAH CHAUTAUQUA.
	One of the busiest and most helpful places
in Utah during the middle of July will be
on the grounds of the Utah Chautauqua As-
sembly at Ogden from July 17th to the 27th.
	During the ten days over eighty different
lectures, entertainments, or concerts will be
heard. Of special interest to women will be
the work of Mrs. Ida B. Cole and Professor
McKeavor.
	Mrs. Cole is the official representative of
the Chautauqua institution, and is a delight-
ful speaker. She will give two lectures on
art, which will be illustrated by life-sized
reproductions of some of the masterpieces
of the art of all times and all countries. One
lecture on home furnishings will be illus-
trated by large models of houses which are
furnished by the art committee of the Gen-
eral Federation of Women’s Clubs.
	Professor McKeavor of the Kansas Ag-
ricultural College, who is well known in
Utah, will conduct a parents’ class conven-
tion during the session which will be very
valuable.
	Pioneer Day will be celebrated under the
direction of Apostle D. O. McKay and in
the evening the “Mid-Summer Night’s
Dream” will be presented by Miss Maud
May Babcock and the Dramatic Club of the
U. of U.
	Among the other lecturers might be men-
tioned Dr. Charles Zueblin of Boston, Dr.
Ira Landrith of Nashville, Col. Bain of
Kentucky, and Bishop McConnell of Den-
ver.
	Good music will be furnished by the
Brahms, a mixed-quartet, the Imperial Male
Quartet, the Salt Lake Symphony Orches-
tra and others.
	Ample provision is made for the children.
They have lots of fun all day long with their
organized plays, athletics, swimming classes
and clubs.


AUNT LENORA MORLEY.
	SISTER OF ELIZA R. SNOW.
			A SKETCH.
	I opened the EXPONENT and the picture
of Cordelia Morley Cox struck me very
forcibly, as it resembled our Aunt Lenora.
It took me back in thought to my school
days, when we attended Aunt Lenora’s
school. If we were not studying diligently
we would receive a very gentle thump on
the head with her thimble. The first ex-
ercise in the morning was a chapter from
the Bible. In the afternoon we were taught
fancy work and sewing, of different kinds.
Aunt Lenora made a great number of bed-
spreads. They were made out of un-
bleached cloth which she would put on the
snow to bleach. When the cloth was bleached
she would embroider the spreads and they
were just as white as need be. I have one
of them now which I greatly prize. Aunt
Lenora was very industrious, always work-
ing. She lived around with the different
families. She was a mother to all. I know
felt her loss and wondered how Aunt
Eliza could control her feelings in order to
speak at her funeral, we were all crying.
She was honored and loved by all.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

				Woman’s Exponent

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,		-		JUNE, 1913


[Column 1]
GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CON-
			FERENCE. 

			SECOND DAY. 
		MORNING SESSION. 
	Singing, “Praise Ye the Lord.” Prayer,
Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams. Singing, “Guide
Us, O Thou Great Jehovah.”
	It was announced by President Wells that 
the morning session of the conference would
be devoted to genealogical work, a subject 
that at once appeals to all Latter-day Saints. 
Some work has already been done along this 
line in our societies, and it is to be hoped 
that the interest will grow and spread all 
over the Church. 
	Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune was intro-
duced as the first speaker, her subject being
“What the Genealogical Society Has Done.”
	Mrs. McCune stated that new effort was 
being put forth by the Genealogical Society 
to interest people in genealogical work and 
salvation for the dead; that when President
Wells was approached on the subject she 
heartily endorsed the effort and promised
the support of the Relief Society in the un-
dertaking. We are delighted that so many
younger people are interested in the work 
and are anxious to assist. 
	The Genealogical Society has expended
thousands of dollars for valuable books, and 
every cent taken for membership fees is ex-
pended on the library. The Society is anx-
ious to obtain valuable books as rapidly as 
possible for the great benefit of its members. 
Since the time the prophet Elijah appeared
to Joseph Smith and delivered the keys of 
salvation for the dead, the people of the 
whole world have awakened to the necessity
of gathering family records and thousands 
of people, regardless of denomination, are 
now engaged in genealogical work; many
societies have been formed whose agents are 
traveling far and near in search of data. This
interest is the result of the influence of God, 
and people of other faiths who are collecting
records are doing it for the benefit of the 
Latter-day Saints, although they do not
know it. The members of the “Mormon”
Church themselves are among the slowest 
to take up this work, and there are many
under the shadow of the Temple who have
not done Temple work for their own
parents. 
	Genealogical work has been taken up very
successfully in connection with the Relief 
Society in several stakes, beginning with

[Column 2]
Ogden, and we hope other stakes will follow
their example.
	Mrs. McCune closed by stating that the 
President of the Church has assured the 
Genealogical Society that the next building 
to be erected by the Church will be a library
for its records.
	Reports were made of the genealogical
work done in the following stakes: Utah, 
Davis, Jordan, and Ensign. 
	Mrs. Martha F. Keeler reported for Utah
Stake, saying that the presidency of the 
stake had called two women from each ward
to take the course of genealogical lessons, 
and then conduct classes where many had
been interested in the work of the society. 
Some of the wards, she said, maintained 
Temple funds, and Provo Fourth ward kept 
a Temple worker in commission practically 
all the time. The Utah Stake has subscribed 
for the Genealogical Magazine, and many 
members of the stake have taken out life
memberships in the Genealogical Society. 
	Mrs. Emma Strong, reporting for Davis
Stake, said that the genealogical work was
taken up by the Relief Society soon after 
last October conference. Classes had been 
organized in Kaysville, Farmington, East
Bountiful, and Centerville, and although
work had been practically suspended during
the winter months, it would be resumed
soon, as the societies were greatly interested 
and very enthusiastic. 
	Mrs. Hilda Larson, president of Jordan 
Stake Relief Society, said that two classes 
organized last fall had held successful meet-
ings and that the work would be resumed
immediately after the present conference. 
	Mrs. Cecelia Sharp Barker, of Ensign
Stake, told of the work done in this stake, 
wherein many members of the Relief So-
ciety and the Mutual Improvement Associa-
tions had been enrolled in the genealogical 
classes held in the Bishop’s Building. Mrs. 
Barker gave examples of the necessity for 
careful and systematic work along genea-
logical lines and she urged full co-operation
in the work. 
	Two violin solos were given by Prof. Wil-
lard Weihe, accompanied by Prof. John J. 
McClellan.
	Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward sang “O Dry
Those Tears,” and was accompanied by Pro-
fessors Weihe and McClellan. 	
	Mrs. Susa Y. Gates spoke on the subject,
“How the Genealogical Work Can be Util-
ized by the Relief Society.” “There are
two ways by which the genealogical work
can be secured: First, by the officers of 
the Relief Society writing directly to the 
board of the Genealogical Society; or, sec-
ond, by obtaining the work through the 
stake presidents, as was the case in Ensign 
Stake. Eventually the Genealogical Society 
will take up the matter through correspond-
ence with every stake in the Church and 
ask that work be taken up. 
	“It is to be hoped that some day there
will be temples in every stake, but what can 
be done in these temples without genealog-
ical information, which lies at the very root 
of the work to be done? Much time is 
wasted in our temples today by people com-
ing with incomplete records.”
	Mrs. Gates briefly reviewed the work done 
in the various stakes and in the B. Y. Uni-
versity at Provo. She stated that these 
classes are at the disposal and command of 
the stakes, and teachers are ready and will-
ing to give the information. She rejoiced

[Column 3]
that a temple was to be built in Canada, and 
stated that temples will be built just as fast
as we discharge the obligations resting upon 
us with regard to these matters. “This work
belongs to God, but it rests on the shoulders 
of the individual members of the Church
and can progress no faster than the indi-
viduals themselves permit.”
	Counselor Julina L. Smith continued the 
subject of salvation for the dead, and felt 
that many people were inspired and helped 
in this direction by communication with the 
spirit world in the form of dreams and other 
manifestations. The speaker related several
instances to prove this assertion. She re-
ferred to the manner of laying away the 
dead and hoped that all would be worthy 
of the clothes placed upon them. 
	Singing, “Praise God From Whom All
Blessings Flow.”
	Closing prayer, Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox.
 
		AFTERNOON SESSION.
	Singing, “Come, Come Ye Saints.” Open-
ing prayer, Mrs. Alvira Cox. Solo, “O,
Shining Light,” by Hugh Dougall. 
	The officers and members of the General 
Board of Relief Society were then presented
by the Assistant Secretary and were sus- 
tained unanimously. 
	President Wells expressed regret that 
President Smith was unable to attend the 
afternoon meeting, but hoped that some 
member of the Quorum of the Apostles
would be sent in his place. In the meantime
members of the Board would make brief
addresses.
	Counselor Clarissa S. Williams spoke
briefly, outlining the addresses of the previ-
ous speakers in the conference, dwelling es-
pecially on the sanitation movement, and 
urging the women of the Society to take the 
lead in their respective communities in im-
proving sanitary conditions. She mentioned
the necessity of understanding health prob-
lems in order to preserve bodily strength 
and to prevent disease. Typhoid and other 
diseases which so heavily draw on the life
of the race can be kept down by proper care 
in the home. 
	She heartily endorsed the work of the 
redemption for the dead and hoped that all 
would be brought to realize the beauty of the 
doctrines of the Latter-day Saints and use
every effort to help those who are not so
blessed.
	Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings suggested that 
the members of the Society should count 
their blessings and include among these 
blessings the fact that they are living in a 
day and age where clean and pleasant sur-
roundings are available for all. She urged
the members to assist in the campaign for 
cleaner homes and surroundings, asking all
to try to make conditions under which they
live actually hygienic. She said that more 
sympathy should exist between parents and 
children and that they should be closer com-
panions, also that children should be taught
while small. 
	Mrs. Jennie A. Hyde recounted her ex-
periences as a member of the General Board
in visiting the various stakes, referring to 
one in Arizona where the women had con-
structed a steel elevator and another in 
Utah, South Sanpete Stake, where the So-
ciety had realized $3,700.00 from the sale
of “Sunday eggs;” and still another stake 
where the Relief Society had collected and


contributed $1,600.00 toward the tabernacle
building fund. She urged all to live up to
the understanding of the Gospel as revealed
to us.
	Solo, “Sweet Spirit, Hear My Prayer,”
by Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward.
	President Wells endorsed the words of
the other speakers and recounted experi-
ences in the early days of the Relief Society,
emphasizing the value and breadth of the
work. She expressed regret that more of
the deeds of the members of the association
has not been recorded, thinking that many
were worthy of conspicuous places in the
history of the Society. She expressed the
hope that faith is not dying out among the
young people and, to refresh the memories
of the younger members on important inci-
dents of pioneer history with which she is
so familiar, President Wells related the
scene of the transfiguration of Brigham
Young, saying that she had witnessed it,
and that she knew the mantle of Joseph
Smith came upon him. She spoke also of
the resemblance of President Joseph F.
Smith to the Prophet Joseph.
	The conference closed with singing
“Daughters of Zion,” by a choir under the
direction of Lizzie Thomas Edward, and
prayer by Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon.
			AMY BROWN LYMAN,
					Assistant Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
TAKING A STAND FOR THE RIGHT.
	Women the world over are waking up to
the fact that they form at least one half of
the world’s citizenship, and that as such it
is their right, and their duty as well, to
help direct its governmental policies.
	God, the Father of creation, made woman
co-equal with man and gave them together
the dominion of earth. The Scriptures say,
“He created him in His own image, in the
image of God created he him, male and fe-
male created he them. And God blessed them
and said unto them, Be fruitful and multi-
ply and replenish the earth, and subdue it;
and have dominion over the fish of the sea,
and the fowls of the air, and every living
thing that moveth upon the earth.” Mark
you, God did not give him dominion, but
them. God has always considered woman
and commissioned her as he has man. He
has sent his angel messengers to her, not to
her husband, whenever he had a work she
should perform. The Holy word tells us he
made promises and gave instructions to
woman as in the case of Sarah of old, also
the wife of Manaoh, and Mary the mother
of Christ. The Divine organizer even gave
woman the greater share in the joint earth-
ly creation, so that she not only forms one
half of the world’s numbers, but she is
bringing into life its entire population. This
fact doubles her interest and concern in the
affairs of civilization, for into whatever con-
ditions prevail she must place her precious
contribution of humanity.
	Man in his might and blindness has
wrested from Eve’s daughters their God-
given rights in the dominion, hence this
modern war which woman-kind is waging to
obtain them back again. The struggle is
surely divinely instituted and will ultimately
succeed, for the world’s problems to-day
are sadly in need of the decisions of pure,
high minded, God-fearing men and women.
	But we of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, are not obliged to fight
for this kind of recognition. Joseph Smith,

[Column 2]
under the inspiration of the Father, restored
to our sex a voice in public councils. As
we often express it, “He opened the door
to women,” by organizing them into societies
and leading them into church and civic re-
sponsibilities and privileges. Our Prophet
saw that laws were heavily overbalanced in
favor of the stronger sex who had so long
held undisputed power, and he gave women
the franchise for a great purpose—the pur-
pose of righting many wrongs; and in the
interest of truth and eternal progression;
and eternal progression admits of no back-
ward steps, it makes no terms with evil.
Our course in regard to this was marked
out by the Savior when He said, “Get thee
behind me Satan.”
	The State of Utah has also extended the
ballot to women, and it behooves us to use
its power understandingly and conscien-
tiously for the right and the right only.
	All the thoughtful and progressive people
of the civilized nations are aroused and ap-
palled at the dreadful and manifold evils
that at present are corrupting society. And
it is to assist the better class of men (who
invite help) to legislate against these evils
that they may be put under the ban and
power of the law, that women are striving
to have a voice in government.
	Now the eyes of the whole world are upon
Utah and her sister States where women
enjoy the franchise, to discover, by the way
we handle problems, if women really stand
for reform; to ascertain if women in general
will be a vital factor in bringing purity,
strength, and honesty into civic affairs and
equal responsibility in conduct, virtue, clean
habits and health into society.
	The enemies of woman’s suffrage are
eager to see us vote with those husbands
who place personal privilege and conven-
ience, selfish desires and business prosperity,
above moral advancement. They will be
glad to see the “weaker vessels” fail in pro-
moting or securing any legislation looking
towards higher ideals. On the other hand
the struggling suffragists are watching with
bated breath, ready to point with pride, de-
light and encouragement to any moral re-
form or civic betterment we may gain;
though we will suffer their just condemna-
tion if we haven’t the sense to grasp and use
our power.
	There is no course for us but to stand un-
equivocally for right living, correct princi-
ples and moral laws. Too long have some
men tried to persuade us that certain evils
were necessary, which admission is but meet-
ing said evils half way; while making
laws to regulate them is inviting them into
our civic midst upon a square footing, and
the institutions maintained to control them
have proven veritable hotbeds for the growth
of crime. When great moral issues are be-
fore us to decide we must not be swayed
like “reeds in the wind” by the sophistry of
those who have personal ends to gain;
neither should we be tempted from our
course by promises of earthly prosperity.
What does that amount to compared to the
saving of the souls of men? Nor should we
be frightened from our duty by the predic-
tion of worse evils. Will we believe those
who declare that we can have only a part
of right, only a little of the good, and that
it is useless to try for perfection?
	Do we forget that a high mark cannot be
reached except by a high aim? Did not
Jesus know what we were capable of when

[Column 3]
he commanded, “Be ye, therefore, perfect
even as your Father in heaven is perfect.”
	Every woman knows what is right, then
why should we hesitate and be persuaded
this way and that. It is the women with low
aims and wavering decisions who have
helped to bring about, in connection with
one-sided legislation, the double standard of
virtue that is blocking the wheels of present
day progress. When men, because of their
stronger appetites, began to fall into ill re-
pute did women put a check upon such con-
duct by withholding their society from the
wrong-doers? When they acquired harm-
ful habits and personal impurity did the fair
sex refuse to marry them? Or, were there
too many wavering ones to condone faith-
lessness and endure filthy habits until certain
men considered some vices their especial
privilege? At the same time the opposite
sex have scorned to wed any but perfectly
virtuous and undefiled maidens. They have
required virtue and irreproachable conduct
from the ones they expected to marry. And
the great majority of the gentler sex have
lived up to this ideal. Have women set an
equally high ideal to which men may aspire?
	If not, then they are partially responsible
for the double standard of conduct, and it
is quite time that women demand purity in
men, and that men reform from habits that
are considered indecent in women. It is
surely time that women demand and vote
for laws that will help to bring about this
imperative reform, which, though an appar-
ently ideal condition, is entirely practicable
and no more than just.
	In the use of the ballot women are re-
sponsible only to their God, and they must
vote according to the dictates of their con-
science, which should put the right above
every other consideration. What better can
we do than follow the teachings of Christ
who said, “Seek ye first the kingdom of God
and His righteousness and all other things
shall be added unto you.” Surely we can trust
the Master. And again, do we not believe
that right will prevail? And shall we not
be of those who help it to do so by taking a
firm and noble stand in its behalf? God for-
bid that we should come under the con-
demnation promised in the scriptures in the
words, “It must needs be that evil come, but
woe unto those by whom it comes.”
	There is a great moral reform wave
sweeping civilization from end to end. It is
not a fad, a fancy of the theorist or a pass-
ing excitement. It is a genuine movement;
a movement that is inevitable. It is the re-
turn swing of the pendulum which has gone
just as far as it can go in the direction of
licensed crime, sin, disease and suffering.
Civilization sowed the wind when it pro-
vided law-protected institutions where men
were permitted, unrestrained, to swear,
smoke, gamble, become intoxicated with
strong drink and debauch their purity. For
as their numbers increased, as they naturally
did with so free a privilege, the numbers of
their companions in crime, dubbed the “fall-
en women,” had to be increased in num-
bers also, and out of this demand and in the
effort to furnish the supply has developed
that commercial monstrosity—the white
slave traffic.
	Through these methods crime has become
so widespread that the sinners themselves
are appalled. Disease stalks openly through
the land hewing the innocent as freely and
relentlessly as the guilty. Civilization is
reaping the whirlwind. And there is hardly


enough left free from some pernicious habits
to pass legislation and create sentiment
against this terrible condition.
	Thus it is that we need patriots, martyrs,
men and women who will sacrifice business
interests, earthly possessions, power and
social caste, to work for the uprooting and
casting out of these disastrous evils and for
the establishing of a cleaner, purer, fairer,
social system.
	The deepest thinkers and the most moral
and high minded men in the world are work-
ing hand in hand with women for this great
reform. Should not we with our teaching
and training be with them in the vanguard?
Let it not be said that any body of women
in the world can place a higher ideal of life
or work harder to establish and maintain it
than the women of the Latter-day Saints.
						IDA S. PEAY,
							Provo, Utah.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SKETCH OF THE EAST BOUNTIFUL
		RELIEF SOCIETY.
	The first society was organized by Bishop
John Stoker and counselors, April 24, 1857.
Bountiful was then called North Canyon
ward. The three wards were in one.
	The first president was Elizabeth H. Bar-
low; her first counselor was Louisa Grant;
second counselor, Hannah Holbrook; secre-
tary, Phoebe C. Sessions; treasurer, Lucina
Sessions.
	There were seventy-nine members. Four-
teen meetings were held.
	They did a good work at that time, look-
ing after the poor. One family received
over $60.00. Meetings were discontinued
on account of Johnston’s army coming to
Utah.
	When Bountiful was divided Bishop John
Stoker and counselors, with Sister Eliza
R. Snow, organized the Relief Society
again. Elizabeth H. Barlow was chosen
president again; Lucina Sessions, first
counselor; Mary Jane Crosby, second coun-
selor; Mary Carter, secretary; Cordelia
Carter, treasurer. They had what was
known as a teachers’ quorum. H. Holbrook,
president; Sarah C. Sessions, first coun-
selor; Phoebe Sessions, second counselor;
Phoebe Sessions, secretary.
	The sisters, with the help of the breth-
ren, built what is known as the Relief So-
ciety hall. Bishop John Stoker gave the
land to the sisters to build the hall on. The
people were not so well off at that time,
but they did a noble work in looking after
the needy, and it was up-hill work, for at
that time the people did not understand the
sisters’ labor as they do today, and they
often were made light of.
	When Sister Barlow resigned, 1883,
Bishop Chester Call and counselors chose
Lucina Sessions for president; Nancy T.
Willey, first counselor, and Pamelia Barlow
Thompson for second counselor; Phoebe
Sessions, secretary; Frances Rampton,
treasurer.
	After Sister Hannah Holbrook’s death,
Sister Samantha Willey was made presi-
dent of the teachers’ quorum; Sarah C. Ses-
sions, first counselor, and Jane Burning-
ham, second counselor; Sarah E. Fox, sec-
retary.
	The sisters built the granary near the
hall to store their grain in, as President
Brigham Young gave that mission to the
sisters to lay up grain for the time of need.
	In 1897, Brother L. John Nuttall came
up to Bountiful, and with Bishop David 
Stoker and counselors, organized what was
known as the National Benevolent society,
with by-laws and articles of incorporation
so that the society could hold real estate,
and they were to be re-elected every four
years. At the re-organization, Sister Lu-
cina Sessions resigned and Nancy Willey
was chosen president, with Pamelia Thomp-
son as first vice president; Phoebe Sessions,
secretary, and Sarah E. Fox, assistant sec-
retary; Frances Rampton, treasurer.
	At that time they discontinued having a
president and counselors to the teachers’
quorum, as the president of the society and
her counselors were considered to be the
proper ones to preside over the teachers.
	In June, 1899, Sister Fox departed this
life and Bishop David Stoker chose Mary
Waddops as second vice president to Sister
Willey, and Annie Neville assistant secre-
tary.
	In 1901 Bishop Stoker met with the sis-
ters at the four years’ election and Sister
Willey was chosen again with the same 
board. Sister Frances Rampton resigned
in 1902, and Wilda Rampton was chosen
in her place, as Sister Annie was absent at
times, Sister Jane Stoker Tolman acted as
assistant secretary. When Annie Neville
resigned as assistant secretary, 1906, Sis-
ter Laura Barlow was chosen assistant sec-
retary.
	In 1905, the same board was elected, Sis-
ter Phoebe Sessions resigned in 1906. She
had been a very faithful secretary for thirty-
five years, not only in the ward but in the
stake. Sister Laura Barlow was chosen to
take her place as secretary, and Afton
Rampton Mabey as assistant secretary. The
society had a good, lively band of teachers.
There were twenty-nine districts and four
to six teachers in a district.
	The teachers were very faithful and good
to visit their districts in rain or shine, to
look after those in their districts where
there was sickness or those that needed.
Sister Willey was certainly a mother to the
sisters in giving them good counsel, and
she had a very lovely way in drawing the
young mothers into the society, also young
girls.
	She and her counselors went and visited
the sisters and administered to them, and
gave them spiritual comfort as well. The
presidency and teachers have looked after
those that have departed this life, and have
given the help needed at such times;
they have laid them away as nicely
as those who could pay their own expenses,
and the society has furnished the means to
pay for their caskets also. Sister Willey
has gone in the homes when it was needed
and scrubbed and cleaned, and through sleet
and snow to do it. And so have some of
the teachers. The society has been a great
assistance to the bishopric in looking after
the needy. The society at one time gave
eighty-nine dollars to pay off a mortgage on
a widow’s home. In another case they gave
eighty-six dollars to assist in putting up a
room or two for another widow to make her
more comfortable, and the society has fur-
nished bed quilts, blankets, shoes, dresses,
underwear, and any of the necessities of
life and some means for missionary pur-
poses. Twenty-five quilts or more were
given through the winter. Some years there
have been sixty in the ward that have
needed some help.
	Through the excellent counsel of Bishop
Stoker the board sold their real estate, the
hall and grounds and granary for one thou-
sand dollars, and put it in the bank to be used
for building again when they thought nec-
essary. The hall had been used for enter-
tainments and schools, so it was not fit for
society meetings, and through the counsel
of the bishop as the wheat needed changing,
thought best to sell and put the money in 
the bank to buy wheat again, which was
eight hundred bushels, which the society
and young ladies had been gathering for
forty years.
	And the society always made a success
with the old folks’ party. For the last two
or three years the president saw that all
of the aged and widows or widowers, it
made no difference whether man or woman
that needed it to comfort them, received
from three to five dollars to make them a
Christmas dinner.
	At the reorganization of the ward’s Re-
lief Society a resolution was presented and
adopted of dividing the means accumu-
lated—two thousand dollars. One-half
should go to Bountiful First ward and
one-half to Bountiful Second ward. The
retiring officers have gone out with a good
record and with love to all.
					PRUDENCE.


A VISIT TO NAUVOO. 
	A congenial party of five friends left St.
Louis, Mo., to visit the City of Nauvoo, and
also to attend the conference of the North-
ern States Mission. We crossed the Mis-
sissippi river at Montrose boarded a gaso-
line launch, crossed the river again and
looking back viewed the Island where the
Prophet Joseph Smith sought refuge from
his enemies in times of danger, we then
turned our faces towards the historical city
of Nauvoo, made dear to the hearts of the
Latter-day Saints for the sad and beautiful
memories of the past. We truly felt we
were treading upon sacred ground, for a
Prophet of the true and living God had
here made his home for a few short years
of his momentous life. We anxiously
looked for the homes of our people, locat-
ing many of them. Sixty miles of rock
curbing outline the sidewalks, placed there
by the “Mormon” people.
	We found the people hospitable and kind,
and had no trouble in securing rooms in pri-
vate families. We started out to view the
landmarks left by our people, first visiting
the spot where the Temple once stood, built
by the people in their poverty, costing them
one million dollars. The pillars alone, of
which there were thirty, costing three thous-
and dollars each. One of them was taken
to the Capitol in Washington. At the hotel
we saw one stone of gray granite taken
from the temple, about 6 by 8 feet, with a
half moon and a man’s face cleverly carved
on one side, also a fine picture of the Tem-
ple. The ground on which the temple stood
remains bare. Nothing remains but one
old moss covered wall. I pictured my
father cutting stone as he labored here in
those early days. Near by stands a hos-
pital built of the stones of the Temple, after
the sacred edifice had been burned by a mob
of wicked men. We next visited the home
of the Prophet—the Mansion House—it is
well preserved and taken care of by a family
not of our faith, who showed us through
each room. We saw many relics of the
family, a pair of silver-bowed spectacles


[Column 1]
which they claimed the Prophet wore, also
a daguerreotype of his wife Emma.
	The house contained eight rooms and is
in good condition. We crossed the street
and saw the first house the Prophet lived in.
It is unoccupied and fast going to decay.
At the front of the door is a plain slab of
granite which marks the last resting place
of Emma Smith, the Prophet’s wife. We
also stood on the spot where the bodies of
the Prophet and his brother Hyrum lay in
state, and were viewed by ten thousand
people. Opposite is the Nauvoo House,
partly finished. All this property is now
owned by people not of our faith.
	The location of the Prophet’s home is
ideal. The land here is shaped like a horse
shoe, sloping down to the river’s edge. The
view here is inspiring, with the rolling hills
covered with green pine trees, truly an ideal
spot for a beautiful city. Nauvoo is now a
quiet, peaceful hamlet of about one thous-
and inhabitants, sleeping its life away,
where once stood a city of twenty thousand.
	We visited the old home of President
John Taylor, a well preserved red brick
building of eight rooms, occupied now by
a widow woman and her daughter. A small
store near by is rented by the Latter-day
Saints for Sunday School and sacrament
meetings.
	We then went to the Masonic Temple and
standing on the spot where the Prophet de-
livered his last address to his dearly be-
loved people, we together with one hundred
humble missionaries of the gospel, had our
pictures taken, among the number was
Brother Pitts, an elderly man who has heard
the Prophet preach many times out in the
open air.
	In the evening we attended services held
by our people in the City Hall, about three
hundred being present. The following day
being Sunday, a special fast meeting was
held, and about fifty young men and women
bore testimony of the divinity of Joseph
Smith’s mission. The Spirit of God was
there in abundance. We felt it was a priv-
ilege to bear our testimony on this occasion
to the truthfulness of the restored gospel.
It was a time never to be forgotten.
	Our next trip was to the City of Carthage,
passing the old “Mormon” cemetery, then
the farm once owned by the Prophet. We
did not wonder that he turned to take a
last look at this beautiful spot. After a
pleasant ride of twenty-two miles over a
level road, viewing the well tilled farms,
we entered the city of Carthage. A short
ride and we were in front of the solid rock
jail with walls thirty-two inches in thick-
ness, now covered with green vines. The
well curb is removed, a green lawn in its
place. Crossing the threshold of the door,
serious thoughts entered our minds as we
ascended the stairway, opened the door
dented with bullet marks and entered the
room where the blood of the Patriarch
Hyrum Smith stains the floor. These spots
stand out clear as a testimony against the
people of Illinois who had promised pro-
tection. We stood by the window, half
open, facing the east, where the Prophet
Joseph looked down the muzzle of sixty or
more rifles, and throwing his body headlong
at their feet pierced with four bullets, ex-
claimed, “Oh Lord, my God.” They never
fail who die in a great cause.
	After a short talk with the family who

[Column 2]
have charge of the place, which is owned
by our people, we returned to Nauvoo, at-
tended services, and the following day re-
turned to the city of St. Louis.
			SARAH MCLELLAND.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
	YELLOWSTONE STAKE.
	The annual convention of the Yellowstone
stake was held at St. Anthony, Feb. 23, 1913,
commencing at 10 a. m.; President Julia E.
Miller presiding; roll call showing 8 stake
officers, 37 ward officers, members, and vis-
itors; also stake presidency, two high coun-
cilors and several bishops present.
	A speech of welcome by First Counselor
Mary J. Miller. Talk on storing of grain by
Amelia C. Barnes. Song, Sister Singleton
of St. Anthony. Paper on charity by Sister
Vera Remington. Song by members of
Marysville ward.
	Bro. Frank A. Miller of the stake Sunday
School spoke for a short time of the rela-
tionship of the different organizations of the
Church.
	President Daniel G. Miller spoke encour-
agingly to the sisters; thanked them for their
assistance in the erection of the Tabernacle.
Singing, “We Thank Thee, oh God, for a
Prophet.” Benediction by Sister Emily
Lamborn.
	Afternoon Session—President Julia E.
Miller presiding, First Counselor Mary J.
Miller conducting.
	Singing, “How Firm a Foundation.”
Prayer by Bishop A. D. Miller, Sr., of the
St. Anthony ward. Singing, “Nay, Speak
No Ill.” Speech of welcome, Pres. Julia
E. Miller. A talk on the opportunity that
comes to a mother in her Relief Society
work, by Sister Ellen Murri. A talk on
child culture by Sister Janette Miller. Song,
Sister Vilate Rigby. Talk on “Mothers of
Great Men” by Sister Alice Parker. Song
by two young girls of the Marysville ward.
	Bro. C. E. Lloyd spoke for a short time,
encouraging all to do their duties. A set of
resolutions passed by general board of Re-
lief Society was read by Secretary Mary E.
Brower.
	Sister Mary J. Miller thanked all who had
taken part. Singing, “Guide Me to Thee.”
Benediction by Sister Bessie Redding.
				MARY E. BROWER, Secy.
	LOS ANGELES BRANCH.
	Anniversary Exercises of the National
Woman’s Relief Society, of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, of the
Los Angeles Branch, March 17, 1913.
	Sister Olive D. Christensen, General Sec-
retary of the Relief Society board, and Sis-
ter Maria Y. Dougall, were present. Ser-
vices were conducted by Second Counselor
Sister Louise Irving.
	Opening by singing, “Our God we raise
to Thee.”
	Invocation by Sister Maria Y. Dougall.
	Vocal Solo by Sister Josie Hinckley, “I
Love You.”
	A reading on Woman and her Work,
Sister Jessie S. Reed.
	Vocal Solo, “Carmena and When Love is
Kind,” Elsie B. Best.
	The minutes of the organization of the
Woman’s Relief Society were read by Sis-
ter Olive D. Christensen.

[Column 2]
	Violin Solo, Joseph K. Robinson.
	Recitation, Sister Heywood.
	Quartette, Wm. A. Shepherd, Alma J.
Winters, Sister Josie Hinckley and Katie
Robinson.
	A Rubenstein Reading, Horace N. Fish.
	President Robinson addressed the gather-
ing eulogizing woman and what she has
done for mankind.
	Duet, Jos. E. Robinson and Wm. A.
Shepherd.
	Sister Irvine spoke of the work of the
Society in Los Angeles.
	President Robinson informed the Society
and Saints of the room in the new church
especially for the ladies.
	By request Sister Hinckley sang, “May
Morning.”
	Envelopes were passed around for dona-
tions, after which ice cream and cake were
served. A pleasant evening was spent, after
which the gathering was dismissed by Elder
George H. Anderson.
	Amount donated $21.37.
			NEBO STAKE.
	Relief Society Conference, held March
21st at Spring Lake, President Eliza J.
Dixon presiding and taking charge.
	Singing, “Our God, we Raise to Thee.”
Prayer by Brother David Butler. Singing,
“Redeemer of Israel.” Minutes of last Con-
ference were read and approved. Roll
called, seven wards represented, sixty-two
officers and members and eight brethren
present.
	Sister Diantha Thomas spoke a few words
of welcome. Sister Dixon made opening
remarks. Was glad to see so many present.
Spoke of Relief Society work and what it
consists of—for the sick and needy and
teaching the Gospel.
	Sister Edla Johnson gave a report of
Benjamin Ward Society.
	Sister Reece of Santaquin gave a recita-
tion.
	Sister Ursula Drollinger reported Payson
First Ward.
	Sister Sorena Youd reported Lake Shore
Ward.
	Sister Mara Anna Barren of Santaquin
gave a reading entitled, “Self Sacrifice.”
	Sister Matilda Dixon gave a lesson on
“Modern Revelation.”
	Sister Martha S. Kapple, having just re-
turned from a trip to California, spoke on
revelation, and the organization of the Re-
lief Society; said her trip away from home
had strengthened her testimony.
	Closed morning session by singing, “The
Spirit of God like a Fire is Burning.”
	Benediction by Brother Walter Menlove.
		AFTERNOON SESSION
	After the opening exercises, remarks
made by President Smith during our last
conference were read by Sister Ruth Sar-
gent.
	Recitation by Sister Emma Greenhalgh
“Mother and Home, Sweet Home.”
	Sister Clara R. Evans spoke on protecting
the morals of the young people of Zion.
	Recitation by Sister Emma Greenhalgh
of Santaquin.
	Brother Alpheus Bingham said we should
do all in our power to get our children to do
right and shun evil. We are not confiden-
tial enough with our children.
	Song, Sister Maria Perry, entitled, “Just
Plain Folks.”


Brother David Butler made a few re-
marks on moral purity.
	Recitation by Sister Hortense Butler.
	Sister Eliza A. Hawkins, just returned
from California, gave a short talk.
	Sister Eliza J. Dixon explained the use
of the new text book, called “Primer of
Sanitation;” made closing remarks thank-
ing the people of Spring Lake Ward for
royal entertainment.
		E. A. HAWKINS, Cor. Secretary,
						Payson, Utah.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
“WELL DONE, GOOD AND FAITHFUL
			SERVANT.”
	A beautiful morning in the latter part of
May found us eagerly scanning the shores of
Old England, and waiting the landing of our
steamer the “Corlew” at the quay in Liver-
pool.
	We had just crossed the channel from Ire-
land, on our return journey from visiting and
attending the conferences held in the north of
England and Scotland, and lastly the confer-
ence just held in Belfast, Ireland. After visit-
ing the branch of the Church in Dublin, we
found ourselves wandering through the won-
derful Giant’s Causeway and visiting some of
the wild Irish scenes on the coast of Antrim,
and then dreaming the time away among the
beautiful Lakes of Killarney. I had been la-
boring in the mission field nearly two years,
when, in the latter part of April, President
Lyman had released me from field work, and
invited me and my missionary companion, Sis-
ter Farnsworth, and my little daughter May, to
visit with him some of the conferences where
there were no missionary sisters. We enjoyed
every minute of the time. I had borne my tes-
timony to the truthfulness of the Gospel in
homes, halls and in the street in the lands
and conferences we had visited.
	Before leaving London I had promised the
elders I would return and share the summer’s
work on the streets of that great metropolis
with them. “But you will be released very
soon,” they said, “then you will not come back
to London.”. These thoughts were in my mind
as we landed that morning in Liverpool. Tak-
ing a cab we soon arrived at “42,” so famed
in the missionary history of Liverpool. As we
stepped into the office, we were greeted by
President Lyman who, looking over his glasses
said to me, extending his hand to each of us,
“Where were you on Sunday, Sister Alder?”
By the way we had promised to attend the
conference held in Liverpool on that day. “In
Dublin,” I answered. “Did you hold meetings
in Dublin?” he inquired. Being answered in
the affirmative, he continued, “That is well;”
then added, “I was just going to mail your
release to London, but now you have come, I
will give it to you.” I now noticed that he
had a number of long envelopes in his hand,
one of which he handed to me saying, “Well
done, good and faithful servant.” As one in a
dream, I took it mechanically in my hand; at
the same moment my strength forsook me, and
I dropped into the nearest chair gasping, “Then
my work in this land is done!” “No,” he said,
“I know you desire to labor longer in London,
so I have made your release read, ‘to return
home at your pleasure after the sixth of
June.’”
	Sometimes I had thought it would be a
happy day when I should hear the welcome
plaudit, “Well done, good and faithful servant.”
But oh, the pain that was mixed with the
pleasure! Before me there instantly arose all
the fields wherein I had labored, and the faces
of many of the Saints rose to my view. Then
I was my own judge. Had I done all that I 
could for them; had I been patient, endearing,
loving; had I strengthened the tender wheat,
while their weak feet were being made fast
in the Gospel? Even as it is said that in an
instant of time the past life of a drowning man
stands up before him, so my missionary life
arose before me. I could think of nothing I 
had left undone, but oh, I wished I had done
more. I had not squandered the precious time,
but I felt so sorry I was so often weary. Oh
that I had had strength to do more! The
words of Holy Writ came to me now fraught
with a new meaning. “Well done, good and
faithful servant.” I had never understood
them before. Would that anticipated time

[Column 2]
bring the expected joy and happiness? I felt
that it would not, for it would mean to us, that
our record would be closed, this life be over,
all earthly opportunities for doing good be
past. 
	My heart beats were strange and painful. I
was so thankful that I could yet labor for
Christ; yet strive to win some soul to Him. I
rejoiced in the few scoffs and little scorn I
had borne for Him, it all seemed so insignifi-
cant now, and could I not have endured a little
for Him I would not be worthy of Him. “You
have filled a long, hard mission,” Bro. Lyman
was saying; “go home and labor among your
sisters and the Saints.” I felt that the authority
with which I had been invested had fallen
from my shoulders like a mantle, and my de-
sire to remain was swallowed up in my new
mission.
	Oh brothers, sisters, labor earnestly at home
and abroad. Some of His sheep are straying;
will you strive to bring them back? Some are
weaker than you, will you strive to bear them
up? Christ came to bring, not the righteous,
but sinners unto repentance, and know that
none are perfect, no, not one. Then some day,
when mayhap it may be said unto you, “Well
done, good and faithful servant;” you may,
holding some of His wandering sheep by the
hand, enter into His kingdom and enjoy the
rest He has prepared for those who have over-
come.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.


THE N. E. A.
	The great event of the “City of the
Saints” this summer is the National Educa-
tional Convention. The people of Utah are
most happy in their entertainment of stran-
gers, and the opportunity of opening our
gates to the educators of the nation, was
highly appreciated. Every possible detail
of entertainment was so carefully studied
out by the various committees that when
the opening day of the convention arrived,
the city was marvelously beautiful with
flags and banners, and electrical displays.
All the women’s organizations of the city
kept open house for the visitors, and hos-
pitality and friendliness was evident on
every side. That the visitors from afar
should enjoy their sojourn in Salt Lake City
was the desire of all the people, and the
people, in return, would undoubtedly gain
much from the lectures and discussions of
these great thinkers.
	A feast of knowledge is a goodly thing,
and those who are wise take advantage of
so rare an opportunity to attend and im-
bibe the learning offered at the various
meetings where these noted educators dis-
cuss and declaim on the great problems
that confront the world today.


[Column 1]
		IN MEMORIAM.
		ANNIE W. LARSON.
	Sister Larson, first president of the
Emery Stake Relief Society, died at the
home of Bishop Sam Larson, Castle Dale,
Utah, May 22, 1913, after suffering many
months. Sister Larson was born October 1,
1832, and came to Utah Sept. 27, 1862.
Soon after her arrival in Utah she was mar-
ried to Christian G. Larson, a former presi-
dent of the Emery stake.
	
[Column 2]
	She acted as counselor to Sister Mary
Ann Hyde in the first Relief Society of
Sanpete stake and was chosen president of
the Emery Stake Relief Society, July, 1882,
which office she held for nineteen years.
	She has led a beautiful life, which is
worthy of imitation. She has been kind,
patient and loving to the many children in
the Larson family, who respected and loved
her as a mother.
	As a leader among her sisters in the great
Relief Society work, she will always be re-
membered.
	It was Sister Larson, when president of
Emery stake, who gave the first donation to
the fund for a woman’s building, the money
thus given having been raised by the sale
of “Sunday eggs.”
	She observed the commandments of God,
and was true to the gospel of Christ.
	We resolve in our hearts to endeavor to
be as faultless as she has been, that we may
go where she has gone. That we may be
joined with her in friendship, companionship
and in the ties of sisterly love. That we
may find the emerald gates of Paradise open
for us as they are now open for her whom
we love.
				EDA DYCHES, Sec.

	EMMA SMITH FEATHERSTONE.
			American Fork, April I5, 1913.
	Whereas, in the providence of our Heavenly
Father, he has seen fit to take from our midst,
one of His chosen daughters, Sister Emma
Smith Featherstone, who departed this life
April 12, 1913, at American Fork, Utah county;
	Therefore, be it resolved, That we the sisters
of the First Ward Relief Society, desire to ex-
press our love and appreciation for her untir-
ing labors, as a faithful and efficient secretary
for about forty years; ten years of that time
being devoted as a stake secretary.
	Her life has been a living example to all who
knew her. Her worth is untold. Few have
enjoyed the many gifts she possessed, for she
was highly favored by the Lord, and her sweet
influence felt by all. Great will be the greet-
ing, as she is recognized by those to whom she
performed the last sad rites.
	Volumes could be written telling of the
loving sacrifice, of her inspiration, and the
many blessings she bestowed upon the sorrow-
ing ones. She never hesitated, nor faltered,
in time of need. It can be truly said of her
“To know her was to love her.” We shall
miss her, but our loss is her gain.
	Therefore, be it resolved, That we extend
unto her husband and family our heartfelt sym-
pathy, praying that the consolation of Him
“that doeth all things well” will overshadow
them with His comforting influence.
	We therefore desire that a copy of these
resolutions be presented to the family, and
also placed upon the records of the association
and the “Woman’s Exponent.”
				CHARLOTTE GREENWOOD,
				ROSA H. GRANT,
				ELIZABETH MCCARTY,
				ELIZABETH J. DURRANT.


The U. S. Senate Committee on Woman
Suffrage has reported in favor of an
amendment to the National Constitution
forbidding disfranchisment on account of
sex.


R K. THOMAS CO.,	67-69 MAIN STREET,
					SALT LAKE CITY.
	The most becoming Styles in Ladies ’
	Suits, Coats, Dresses, Skirts, and
	Waists at Popular Prices.
THE STORE WHERE YOU CAN FEEL AT HOME


WOMAN ’S EXPONENT.
The Organ of the Latter-day Saints ’ Woman ’s Belief Society.
Vol. 41.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST, 1913	No. 9.


CONTENTS.
Aunt Esther ’s Sweetheart...............................	65
Class in Nursing and Obstetrics.....................	67
Relief Society Reports:
	Box Elder Stake......................................	70
	Oneida Stake...........................................	71
	North Sanpete Stake...............................	71
	Ogden Stake...........................................	72
Editoral:
	Ramblings...............................................	68
	International Council of Women............	68
	Special Correspondence.........................	68
	Relief Society Nurse School...................	69
	The Value of Our Class Work.................	69
Obituary—Louisa Alexander...........................	67
Notes...............................................................	72
Poetry:
	I Dreamed a Dream........Lydia D. Alder	67
	Idols...............Charlotte Perkins Gilman	70


[Column 1]
AUNT ESTHER’S SWEETHEART.
“Auntie,” said a beautiful young girl in an
absent-minded sort of way, turning half
round on the piano stool, and without rais-
ing her eyes from the floor, “I’m tired of
this sort of thing I want a change. Can’t we
go somewhere, or give a party? Can’t you
suggest some amusement to pass away the
time? Why, I’ve not even had a letter for
days, and that stupid brother of mine is
having a jolly time of it at Harvard, while
I’m here at home, day after day going
through the same dull routine. Oh, I’m
weary I’d even like to get married, if I
could have an offer that suited me!”
	“Is that all, Alice? Have you no other
complaints to make?” said her self-pos-
sessed aunt in reply. The girl looked a little
crest fallen, and without a word turned
round and went on with her practicing. Her
aunt, who was a wise and thoughtful wo-
man, continued her sewing as if nothing
had been said. A long silence followed,
though the truth was Aunt Esther didn’t
know exactly what answer to make. It
was altogether new for her niece to burst
forth so excitedly and it took the quaint
little lady by surprise.
	Alice sat playing a while longer, then
came forward towards the fire, which 
was burning brightly, and seating herself com-
fortably in a low rocker in the corner, be-
gan to stir the coals with a poker—a cus- 
tom many people have when perplexed. The
equanimity of her aunt was too much for
her she wanted her to speak, say she had
been rude, then she would have apologized
but to see her sit there so complacently,
stitching away, taking no notice of her vexa-
tion was unbearable to one so impulsive.
Finally she burst out again:
	“Auntie, we are always going on in this
humdrum way, for all the world like two
old maids? You are not old if you are a
widow, and I,—well, I’m just twenty-two,
and have never yet had a real beau I want
some attention, some companionship.”
	“My dear,” said her aunt, “how long is it
since we came home from the sea shore,
“where you danced, and waltzed, and sang
and took in all the gaieties of the season,
until you were tired, and wanted to come
home to the Wren’s Nest? Isn’t that so?”

[Column 2]
	“Yes auntie, I did want to come home,
thanks to your judicious training, because
there was so much deception and hypocrisy-
there, and such ‘shilly shally’ girls and un-
principled young men and old ones too for
that matter, and mercenary, managing mam-
mas, and all that. It was simply disgusting
to sensible people.”
	“And that was society, Alice, the best
society, so we were informed, and certainly,
if wealth and extravagance are the stand-
ards by which the ‘best society’ is estimated
it must have been.”
	“Yes, auntie, they were rich I suppose,
and they were proud and arrogant but they
were also ill-bred, some of them at least.
Oh, I learned some lessons in the ways of
the world that I shall never forget and I
did not hesitate to tell one young lady, who
carried on a flirtation under my very eyes,
what my mother would have thought of her
conduct, and she begged me to keep the
matter a secret. But a truce to all this
we’ve talked of these things before. I am
positively pining for some one to talk to. I
know you’re good company, and always
amiable, but there is no variety in our way
of living. We’ve got lots of relatives, let’s
go and visit some of them, while Harry’s in
college. When he comes home everything
will be different. He can take us out, and
we shall have more society it won’t be near
so lonely here then he’s always so lovely.”
	“Alice, about the country cousins. Do
you remember where we used to visit when
you and they were children ?”
	“Yes, I recollect some of those quaint old
places up among the New England hills
they’re very nice in summer time, but how
about winter—how would it be then?”
	“There’s skating and sleigh-riding, and
winter pastimes of course. Yet you must
choose, it is for your pleasure we shall go.”
	“Aunt Esther, are there any young peo-
ple at these places you think of—would
it be interesting in that way?”
	“In what way, Alice?”
	“Why, don’t you understand? Would
there be any love-making, or any chance
of getting a good husband?”
	“Alice, you astonish me. Yet just now,
you were deprecating the ways of those
girls at the sea-shore, and now you are talk-
ing in much the same strain.”
	“But I’m in earnest I am going to mar-
ry some great, big-hearted, honest, young
fellow, that has never been in society, such
as I had a glimpse of last season and that
reminds me, auntie, that you have had a
kind of romance in your life. I’ve heard
Polly say so and you never say a word
about it, nor your married life either, though
for that matter I never asked you—never
thought of it in fact until now. Will you
tell me the story? It must be interesting a
chapter out of your history.”
	Before Aunt Esther had time to reply
to all this rapid questioning a knock was
heard at the parlor door and in came Polly
with a handful of letters, and in the excite-
ment Alice forgot what she had said to her

[Column 3]
dear little auntie, as she called her, and be-
gan examining the postmark, a habit with
women, it is said.
	Here’s such a queer stamp; I do won-
der where this letter’s from; some rich old
uncle, I hope, asking us to come for the 
holidays,” exclaimed Alice.
	Then she took up the one she knew to
be from her brother, and hurriedly broke
the seal. While she sat reading it and tap
ping her dainty feet on the carpet, every
now and then, a way she had when over-
joyed, Aunt Esther was busy perusing a
letter that looked even more foreign than the
one Alice had laid down.
	In the midst of the reading, a carriage
drove up, and visitors were announced—
Mrs. and Mr. Elmore and their two daugh-
ters and the letters were put aside
	The two ladies busied themselves enter-
taining their guests during the remainder of
the afternoon. The Elmores were neigh-
bors of theirs, and very nice people indeed.
	The girls were near Alice’s age and were
both bright and clever. The afternoon sped
swiftly away, and Alice had actually for-
gotten the letters, so absorbed was she with
the conversation of their visitors. Aunt
Esther urged their guests to stay and dine
with them, waiving ceremony and they fin-
ally consented. So that it was nine o’clock
or there abouts before they were alone again.
The evening had been a pleasant one and
Alice was in the best of spirits, having
thoroughly enjoyed the society of these
neighbors, who had so much to say that was
worth listening to. One of the young ladies
was a fine singer and was much admired
by Harry, who was passionately fond of
music, as indeed were Aunt Esther and Al-
ce. Miss Elmore had been singing, dur-
ing the evening one of Aunt Esther’s old
favorites that had carried her back in mem-
ory to her girlhood days, and these words
of the song, kept ringing in her ears:

“Oh no, we never mention him, his name is never
	heard,
My lips are now forbid to speak that once fa-
	miliar word.”

	Aunt Esther, so calm and self-contented
to all appearance, would have given almost
anything to have been alone for a few
minutes that she might weep to relieve her
pent-up feelings but even when the guests
had departed, Alice was still there, and she
must not give way.
	The reading of the letters was resumed,
and for a while silence reigned. What a
pretty picture the two ladies made in that
elegant room—Alice was tall and slender in
figure, a perfect blonde in complexion, and
this evening she wore a dress of soft, pale
blue merino, trimmed with dainty lace and
as she sat reading, one might have gazed
in admiration “and turned and come again
to take his fill,” of her rare beauty. Every
now and then she spoke to auntie and her
countenance brightened, as she repeated
some of Harry’s witty and shrewd com-
ments upon his college life. Aunt Esther


[Column 1]
was one of those peculiar types of women
so difficult to describe that we term them
“a perfect study”; small in figure, dark, al-
most olive complexion, purplish or blue
hair, large grey eyes. Many people
considered her plain, but she was at-
tractive, and possessed that indescri-
bable charm, which for want of a
better term we call magnetic. This eve-
ning she wore a grey dress, of some soft
material, trimmed with scarlet velvet; and
bending over her letters she looked as much
a picture, as the young girl who sat op-
posite. Alice chanced to notice it and as-
tonished her by saying; “Aunt Esther, you
look so charming tonight, your very soul
seems to be looking forth out of your eyes.
I wish you had a sweetheart, it’s such a
lonely life to live; how long since Uncle
Herbert died?”
	“Ten years and over,” replied the little
woman, without lifting her eyes. Sometimes
her voice sounded strangely to Alice, and
as she looked she saw tears fall upon the
letter her aunt had been reading, but seemed
to have dropped from her hand. Alice
knew her aunt was undemonstrative, and
she would not inquire what made her sad,
but thought it was her ill-timed allusion to
her uncle’s death. Little she knew the chord
she had touched, that made such discord
in the heart of this staid and demure little
woman.
	The letters were finished and both ladies
drew nearer to the fire and resumed con-
versation, as all do who love each other, just
before separation for the night.
	“Alice, my dear, was your unknown let-
ter from some rich uncle—an invitation for
the holidays?”
	“No aunt, it was from old Mr. Brown,
whom we met at the seaside last summer,
and funniest of all (for you remember I
snubbed him) it contained an offer of mar-
riage, the first one I ever had. Audacious
fellow, he tells me he loves me, and that he
is worth half a million, all in one paragraph.
I wouldn’t marry him if he were worth
three millions; he’s a scoundrel, been in
society thirty years or more, and divorced
his wife. Marry old Brown? I’d rather be
an old maid and stay with you all my days,
auntie. You’ll never marry again, I don’t
suppose, though you’re much more fascinat-
ing than most young girls, and know a great
deal more. Is that the reason they call
widows dangerous, I wonder? I’ve often
heard the expression. I couldn’t imagine
why it was used, for you are the only young
widow I have ever really been acquainted
with, and I’m sure you are the most in-
offensive and reserved, and the very best
little auntie in all the world.” As she fin-
shed her remark she rose and threw her
arms around Aunt Esther’s neck, and de-
luged her with kisses.
	When Polly came in to inquire what or-
ders her mistress had to give, before retir-
ing, Mrs. Danforth replied, “Nothing, to-
night, but we are going away in a day or
two, so all our plans will be changed and
we can dispense with some of the help for
the present. Polly, would you like to go
anywhere on a visit?”
	“No, Mrs. Danforth, I will stay and take
care of the house while you’re absent, and
Ben, of course you’ll retain him for outside
work. We two can do very well, and it will
save some expense.”
	“All right, Polly, it’s very kind of you to

[Column 2]
be so careful on my account; then I think
we shall pack up tomorrow, and go away
the next morning. Good-night Polly.”
	“Alice,” said her aunt when they were
alone again, “I think I shall go to my sis-
ter’s in M—. Do you remember the fa-
mous, rambling, old country house with the
great wide porches? It was called ‘The
Meadows.’”
	“You mean Aunt Jane’s? I remember
it a little; we used to play under the great
elm trees. Wasn’t there a lot of children?”
	“Seven, I believe, and they are none of
them married: You will not be lonely with
all those young people; at any rate we’ll try
it; I have not been there for many years,
never since my widowhood;” and Aunt
Esther paused for a moment, the word
seemed to stick in her throat.
	“It’s a long way off, and we need not
wait to send them word. I am sure of a
welcome, for your Uncle William is one
of the most hospitable men I have ever
known.”
	“Then, auntie, that’s settled, and I want
you to tell me that romantic story of your
own life, Polly knows something about it,
so of course, there is a story.”
	“What nonsense has Polly been filling
your foolish little head with? Some ser-
vant’s gossip I suppose?”
	“Oh, no, Aunt Esther, this is quite dif-
ferent, and if you don’t promise to tell me
I shall ask Polly before we go to Aunt
Jane’s, because one day she said to me long
ago: ‘Alice, you’re a lovely girl, but not so
attractive as your Aunt Esther was; she has
a history;’ and I wonder, auntie. that I never
have teased you to tell me the story.”
	“Do you see?” said her aunt, pointing
to the clock on the mantel “it is after mid-
night, and we shall have a great deal to do
tomorrow. You really must go to bed now,
and forget all this foolishness about your
auntie. It is quite enough for you to know
me as I am now and to judge me upon
my real merits, and not to listen to Polly’s
insinuations. She’s over fond of me, and
her imagination carries her away some-
times.”
	Alice was sleepy, and therefore bade her
aunt good-night willingly; and Esther Dan-
forth sat there alone brooding over the past
that had been so vividly recalled to her
mind that day. It seemed as though that
letter had brought the past with it, not only
to Esther herself, but Polly and Alice
seemed full of the same reminiscences. She
would not acknowledge to herself that she
had been persuaded to marry for money,
though the world said so, the world in which
she revolved; and tonight as she sat think-
ing she drew the letter from her pocket, the
letter that had excited Polly’s curiosity,
and which seemed to have changed her plans
suddenly.
	“Shall I burn it?” she said to herself. “I
scarcely dare keep it, I am sure Polly recog-
nized the writing,” and as she soliloquised
thus she opened the letter and was again
perusing its contents.
	Looking over her shoulder we might
easily read it too, for she held it wide open,
and gazed as if entranced. It ran thus:
“My Precious Darling:
	“I shall sail for America in a few days;
have made definite arrangements; shall
go by way of London to transact some busi-
ness there, and then for Boston. In a

[Column 3]
few hours after arriving, I shall come to
you, and learn my fate. I can no longer
endure this dreadful suspense. It is years
since I wrote you that first impassioned
letter, after I learned that you were free—
free from that terrible bondage of the heart.
You answered me as though you were an
icicle, or that your heart was frozen; but I
know you better; you are mine; and your
own heart will bear you witness when you
read these burning words. You cannot for-
get if you would, the glorious past, the rec-
ollection of which has hung over me, during
all these years of banishment, like a rain-
bow of promise. I have still the pledge
of your devotion, given me on that May
morning, when we plighted our troth under
the apple boughs and I shall never part
with it. The last time I wrote you an-
swered me in doubt—it gave me some en-
couragement, because you said, ‘Wait, when
the children I have charge of are not de-
pendent upon me for a home, I may con-
sider your proposal.’ Must duty to the
children of your dead brother forever debar
you from fulfilling the pledge of your love
to the living—to one who has waited for
you all these years—that he might take you
to his heart and shelter you there forever
and ever? Esther, I am coming, and from
your own sweet lips, I must hear the words
that shall decide my fate, my further life.
Disguise your true self as you may to others,
you cannot deceive me, by my own strength
of affection, I measure yours, I will ask
you to answer me here, it would be too
long to wait should you say, yes, and so—
farewell until we shall meet, sweetheart,
dearest.
		“Your old sweetheart,
				“SIDNEY MANNING.”
	Poor Aunt Esther, she read the letter
again and again, and her tears poured hot
and fast. She sobbed as if her heart would
break.
	“What shall I say to him when he comes?
How can I meet him again after all these
years? I dare not confess my love, that
has outlived everything. I will not see
him, I will go away; I shall not be able
to withstand his pleadings!”
	Nothwithstanding her mental resolve,
she folded up the letter that had caused all
this tumult of feeling and put it in her bos-
om, and as she passed out of the room and
ascended the stairway, she moaned and
every now and then she leaned her head
upon the balustrade and would have fal-
len but for its support. Little sleep for her
that night while Alice, who was wholly
heart-pure, slept the sweet sleep of youth
and innocence. How true the poet’s words:
Tired nature’s sweet restorer, balmy sleep, he like
	the world,
His ready visit pays, where fortune smiles; the
	wretched he forsakes,
Swift on his downy pinions, flies from grief
And lights on lids unsullied with a tear.”
	The household were early astir the next
morning, for Polly, the faithful friend, had
been almost as wakeful as her mistress, and
the day was a busy one with preparations
for the journey and the necessary change.
The trunks were packed and strapped, and
traveling bags made ready, and Esther Dan-
forth, like one in a dream, went from room
to room, to see that all was safe.
	“This was his house,” she muttered un-
der her breath, my husband’s,” and a cold


[Column 1]
shiver ran through her veins. “I was al-
most persuaded to leave it once, but my
good angel stood by and saved me; and
Polly, dear, good girl, she helped me to bear
it all. I came here a bride from the church
door, with showers of congratulations.
What a wretched creature I was; with my
beating heart and my broken vows, and
Sidney—I did not even dare to think what
would become of him. I was young then,
so very young to be an old man’s bride;
and he knew I did not love him, but he was
ever kind, too kind, and he left all his wealth
to me—only I must not marry Sidney Man-
ning—there it is, in his will, and it was read
that day, when all the family were there.
What a reproach to me, and how they all
stared, until I fainted; I must not marry
Sidney Manning. No, though my heart
should break; not because of the money—
what do I care for the money? Yet it has
been a blessing to my brother’s children,
left orphaned and destitute,”—and Esther
Danforth sank upon her knees, there alone
in the pale moonlight, beseeching heaven
to guide her footsteps. And her prayer
was answered.
	The journey occupied two days and
nights for those were not the times of steam
and rapid transit. At the close of the sec-
ond day, they reached their destination. It
was a bright, clear, moonlight night, and the
great wide-spreading elms stretched out
their branches, as if to welcome and shelter
them. The greetings were affectionate, and
Alice was quite delighted with the reception
she received; it was so genuine and cor-
dial. The travelers were tired and glad to
go rather early to bed, especially as they
were aware that, as they were in the coun-
try, they would be expected to rise early.
	Time passed quickly with Alice; there
was so much that was new and pleasant,
and three young men, her cousins, vied
with each other in planning fresh surprises
for her amusement.
	Aunt Esther was visiting in a quiet way
with her sister, from whom she had been so
long separated; there were many things
to tell each other, and it was nearing Christ-
mas, and a grand party was to be given in
honor of Mrs. Danforth and her niece.
	Aunt Jane, as Mrs. Wetherell was called
was half sister only to Aunt Esther and Al-
ice’s father, and was some years older. She
was a very estimable woman, and religious
in her nature; had studied the Bible and 
sought to comprehend its meaning. Of late
a new light had shown across her pathway,
and she had been so impressed with the
divine source from which it came, that she
was making a careful and prayerful ex-
amination of the teachings she had received,
from the messengers who came to her with
glad tidings. Her husband was investigat-
ing the doctrine too and ere long they un-
folded to Aunt Esther the view they enter-
tained. Contrary to their expectation, she
seemed to grasp these new truths more
quickly than they had done, and it was a
confirmation to them, that the doctrine was
from heaven.
	Aunt Esther had gone into the country
place with a broken heart, asking help from
one above, and so completely humble was
she, that she was ready to receive heavenly
truths; in fact, she scarcely needed preach-
ing to, her mind was so clear on the sub-
ject presented to her by her sister and her
husband.

[Column 2]
	The young men were most favorably im-
pressed with the new doctrines, and had
talked to Alice about the everlasting Gos-
pel, but none of them as yet had been bap-
tized. They were waiting for some El-
ders, who were shortly to pay them a visit
and preach to the people in that vicinity.
The “Mormon” Elders soon came to
M—, and Mr. Wetherell, who was a man
of considerable influence, tried to get a hall
or meetinghouse for them to preach in; but
he met with many obstacles in his efforts
that he had not previously anticipated; jeal-
ousy and tradition were rife in the hearts
of those who were opposed, and the good
man at last decided that the meetings should
be at his own place, “The Meadows.” The
house was large and roomy and he had ex-
pected to entertain as his guests, those who
would come to preach and baptize. All
the people in the neighborhood were cordial-
ly invited, and many came to the meetings,
and some who were converts were baptized
and confirmed, after two days meetings had
been held.
	Among those who were baptized were,
Mr. and Mrs. Wetherell, Mrs. Danforth and
Alice Maynard and the three sons and four
daughters of the host and hostess of “The
Meadows.” There were eight others bap-
tized and many more believing.
	Among the latter was a young man whom
Miss Alice greatly admired, and he had al-
ready shown her some marked attention,
and her resolve to marry some honest big-
hearted fellow was in a fair way of fulfill-
ment. He was of fine figure, large and well-
proportioned, and his education had not
been neglected even though he was a farm-
er’s son, and had lived among the New
England hills. He rather astonished Miss
Alice one day by telling her he had never
been in Boston; but she recovered herself
quickly and replied, she was glad of it; not
but that she was proud of Boston, too, but
somehow she liked him better as he was;
better than she ever thought she could like
any of the young men she had met at the
capital.
		(TO BE CONTINUED.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


CLASS IN OBSTETRICS AND NURSING.
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp has announced the
opening of her class in obstetrics and nurs-
ing for Monday, Oct. 6. This is the thirty-
fourth annual announcement, by which we
can readily see that much experience in
teaching along these lines makes one most
efficient.
	Dr. Shipp’s classes have always been most
popular and hundreds of graduates from
her classes are now successful practitioners
in different parts of the country. There is
always a need of good midwives and nurses,
especially in newly settled districts, and the
fact that Dr. Shipp’s graduates are exam-
ned by the state medical board, from whom
they receive their certificates, is sufficient
guarantee of their fitness for their high
calling. We trust the class of 1913-14 will
be equally as successful as heretofore.


I DREAMED A DREAM.
I dreamed a dream of love
	And O ’twas wondrous fair
Glad sunlight from above,
	Was glinting everywhere,
And in that fairy land,
	Wherein dwelt love with me,
Was faith and trust above,—
	No thought of treachery.
My lover was the king,
	Beside him, I, his queen;
O could there anything
	More beautiful have been?
For all the world was love,
	And all the world was fair;
Like cooing of a dove,
	The whispering breezes there.
But O, the dream hath fled!
	Awakening sense of pain,
Has brought me loss instead
	Of love’s own sweet refrain,
My boyish lover’s face
	Is stern and older grown;
And scarcely can I trace,
	The lovelight on my own.
It is the serpent’s trail,
	That once o’er Eden fell;
Turned love songs to a wail
	And broke the fairy spell.
O, years that come and go,
	Bring back my love to me!
Ye breezes soft and low,
	Tell of my constancy.
Let not the poisoned dart
	Cast by that cruel hand,
Still rankle in his heart,
	Insidiously though fanned,
O, brush away the years,
	We boy and girl are still,
Forget the heartaches--tears,
	Let joy our lives o’er fill.
				LYDIA D. ALDER.


OBITUARY.
	Sister Lovisa Alexander, of the Relief
Society presidency of Wasatch stake, has
been taken from the midst of loving friends
and family by the hand of death. She was
greatly honored for her gentle and generous
nature and will be sadly missed.
	Lovisa Alexander, wife of C. M. Alexan-
der of Heber, and daughter of George G.
Snyder and Sarah Hatch, was born at Sac-
ramento, California, on February 25, 1854.
On December 26, 1871, she married C. M.
Alexander in Salt Lake City, after which
the couple moved to Wasatch county, where
they have resided continuously to the pres-
ent time. Mrs. Alexander was the mother
of ten children, six of whom are still living.
	She was one of the Relief Society presi-
dency in the stake for fifteen years and
always took an active interest in church
affairs.
	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Resolutions adopted by the officers of the
Stake Relief Society organization of the
Wasatch stake of Zion, in honor of Sister
Lovisa Alexander:
	Whereas, The Lord in His wisdom has


called from our midst by the hand of death,
our beloved sister, Lovisa Alexander, and
	Whereas, We recognize in Sister Alexan-
der a faithful, efficient and consistent Relief
Society worker, and that in her departure,
not only our organization but the entire
community has sustained a severe loss
therefore, be it
	Resolved, That we express to the bereaved
family, who have lost a kind and affectionate
wife and mother, our sincere and heartfelt
sympathy and condolence, and further
	Resolved, That as an expression of our
love and esteem, these resolutions be spread
on our minutes; a copy thereof presented to
the family, and to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT
for publication.
Signed: WASATCH STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

				Woman’s Exponent

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,		-	AUGUST, 1913


[Column 1]
			RAMBLINGS.
	We have found much satisfaction and
have been greatly interested in visiting
among the several stakes of Zion during the
present year. Prosperity seems to attend
the efforts made by the Relief Society sisters,
and we feel there has been more effort put
forth than during any other previous year.
The genealogical work that has been intro-
duced in some of the stakes has awakened
a deep interest in temple work, which in con-
nection with the great variety of other sub-
jects already undertaken, opens up quite a
wide field, and certainly will promote a ten-
dency towards stronger testimonies of the
far-reaching truths taught and brought forth
in this day and age of the world by the
Prophet Joseph Smith.
	It is educational in the best sense to travel
among the people in these valleys and wit-
ness what has been accomplished in a mate-
rial way by the men and women who are
cultivating the soil, building homes in far-
away places, and in the truest sense making
the desert blossom as the rose.
	How diligent and faithful they have been,
is apparent in the appearance of the beau-
tiful gardens and farms, orchards and mead-
ows, and the prosperous and busy settle-
ments one sees on every side.
	Truly the blessing of the Lord has been
shown this people in their labors, and Zion
will rise and shine as the prophets have fore-
told.
	Throughout the various places we have
journeyed this year, greater prosperity
seems to prevail than we could possibly have
anticipated, knowing the difficulties our peo-
ple have had to encounter to secure water
privileges and cultivate arid lands. To be
sure, the men have been diligent and un-
ceasing, or so much could not have been
accomplished. Everywhere we journeyed
we realized how much men have done in
improving the country, in tilling the soil and
making homes; settling towns and villages,
and all this while complying with all the
requirements of citizenship and family obli-
gations. Truly, the Latter-day Saints are a
wonderful people. There have been no such
tests and problems worked out anywhere
else; and this teaches us, that we should im-
press the fact upon our children and their
children, that the Lord is blessing His peo-
ple and Zion is being established, and will
eventually, with the assistance of those who
serve Him, make America the promised

[Column 2]
land, and fulfill the prophecies concerning
this wondrous nation. Meantime, though
men plow, sow and reap now as ever, wom-
en, wives, mothers, and daughters have been
alert and active in bringing to pass the
transfiguration of this desert country and
making it in all its uncultivated barrenness
a desirable place to dwell in, with com-
forts and advantages too many to enum-
erate in one brief epistle.
	Everywhere we travel in this mountain
region we find women’s work apparent, and
industry and skill supplement the home
labor done by the women of the household.
	Throughout the land wherever our people
have settled and made homes there is an
appearance of thriftiness noticeable, and
although we may say it is an indication of
the training received, yet it is in the very
nature of things marvelous.
	True, the Latter-day Saints are certainly
enterprising in building up the waste places,
and now in the far West, stretching from
north to south, over mountains and across
wide deserts, the Saints are manifesting ex-
traordinary courage and fortitude in explor-
ing and making beautiful and ideal homes.	
	This people do not boast of what has been
done, but rest content if they are permitted
to enjoy the rights and privileges of citizen-
ship in this glorious land of liberty.
	Wherever the Latter-day Saints reside,
in all their abiding places, they are hospita-
ble and kind, not only to those of their own
faith, but to all.


[Column 1]
	INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF
			WOMEN.
	Preparatory to the Quinquennial which
will be held in 1914 in Rome, congresses of
women are being held in different cities of
the world, where committees of different
departments are appointed and their work
outlined. At Paris, The Hague, Budapest
and Vienna, conferences have already been
held and later each national council will hold
one for special appointments and work. The
United States national council will be held
in October at Port Huron, Mich., and will
be a most important gathering of American
women, for then will be selected the repre-
sentatives from this country to the Interna-
tional at Rome. The International execu-
tive meeting was held last May at The
Hague, where all the councils were reported
by their respective presidents.
	It may be interesting to note that the na-
tional president for the United States, Mrs.
Kate Waller Barrett, in her report, gave a
paragraph to Utah in which she told of her
visit to the state legislature and her impres-
sions when witnessing women as law
makers.
	The great suffrage meeting this year was
held at Budapest and noted women from
all over the world were in attendance. From
America were Carrie Chapman Catt, Ida
Husted Harper, Flo Jennison Miller, Char-
lotte Perkins Gilman, May Wright Sewall
and many other strong and brilliant women.
During the months of July the great Peace
Congress was held at The Hague, where
Mrs. Sewall was one of the most conspic-
uous figures. The following letter tells
most accurately the work of that conference.
Peace and Arbitration are the very impor-
tant subjects the national councils have

[Column 2]
always before them, and naturally one in
which women are most vitally interested:
	“This is the great exposition year in Hol-
land. Every city is in gala dress and to this
festive circumstance is added the very ro-
mantic occasion of opening the Palace of
Peace, where the supernational court of jus-
tice will soon reign. Stead proclaimed The
Hague the ‘capital of the world,’ and in this
role it will receive the twentieth universal
peace congress, every municipality joining,
and his royal highness, Prince Henry, tak-
ing the protectorate. This is the first time
a royal personage has done such a thing,
and it commands the respect of the Euro-
pean leaders, who a decade before could
only scoff at peace congresses. The pro-
gram lasts from August 18-23.
	“Holland is the proudest and most demo-
cratic gem that crests the North sea. It is
the one international state which has given
life to every progressive act of history which
has chosen her flowery canaled mainland as
a starting point—including the Pilgrim
Fathers. Little Holland has dared play the
biggest roles in history. The internationalist
feels at home there, and pacifists love it as
their fatherland. Several hundred Nether-
landers are on the committees and the twen-
tieth peace congress is looked upon as a na-
tional festival.
	“The thinkers of every country look with
amazement upon governments that expect
to settle their diplomatic and commercial
questions by chopping up innocent men with
machinery. The present military octopus
cannot be fed any other way, but the resent-
ment of the masses will soon overwhelm
these governments, and demand that public
disputes be settled with law and justice.
After all the carnage, when the ‘leave-
overs’ of the battle must flee from their
homes to escape cholera, the diplomats sit
at a distance and decide over the wires
‘what is what’ and ‘whose is whose.’
	“The twentieth peace congress will espe-
cially urge the questions of ‘A Code of In-
ternational Law,’ ‘International Police,’
‘Commercial Rivalry and International Re-
lations.’ ‘The Limitation,’ and ‘Gradual
Proportional Reduction of Armaments,’ and
in fact will offer the world through its great-
est students of the question, legal lines for
its solution. They are indeed world-patriots
who plan a substitute for human slaughter
as a means of settling national disputes.”


SPECIAL CORRESPONDENCE.
			XIX-4 Grinzinger St., 42,
					Vienna, Austria.
My Dear Friend, Emmeline B. Wells:
	Here in this distant city, dear friend, I
have just received yours of May 12th, which
reached me in Budapest a month later, hav-
ing followed my forwarding addresses from
place to place. You will see how impossi-
ble it was for me to receive it “before leav-
ing America,” for I sailed from Boston on
May 7th for Liverpool, thence going directly
to The Hague, where I arrived on May 17th
and where our work began on May 20th,
and where we remained in close work for
eleven days. In many respects our work
there was impressive and successful. This
was especially true of the work of my own
committee and of the Peace and Arbitration


[Column 1]
meeting on May 23rd, (public and splen-
did), over which I presided. It made a great
impression and received the most favorable
press notices. How much Mrs. Harper
may have said about it in her syndicate let-
ters, I do not know.
	From The Hague I went to Paris and
attended the best organized International
Congress I have ever witnessed, entirely
under the leadership of the French council.
	Thence I came on June 10th to Vienna for
a Suffrage Congress of three days, and
thence on June 14th to Budapest. Of all
the marvels of this summer’s meetings the
press at home will surely have told you. I
left Budapest on June 23rd, and with the
exception of two visits in Hungary, both at
the castle of Count Apponyi, I have been in
Vienna. Although I have had much social
enjoyment in the interstices of work, I have
been here for work—as a result four big
review articles and one three column syn-
dicate letter have gone back to our country,
some or all of which will, I hope, fall under
your vision.
	And now to our own council. Its trien-
nial will be held in Port Huron between Oct.
15 and Nov. 15. It is indeed important that
your societies, both of them, be finely and
fully represented there by all the delegates
and the alternates to which you are entitled.
assure you, my friend, our great “Council
Idea” which means the nationalization of the
womanhood of our own country, and the
internationalization of the women of the
world, has faced and does face its as-
sassins in those who should be its loyal de-
fenders and preservers.
	Port Huron is our last opportunity to re-
vive our council, lift it to its feet and start
it again on that splendid race which it ran
with courage and wisdom from 1888 to
1898, continued honestly but feebly until
1904, and with blows from without and
from within, still retains a vitality that I am
sure can be revived. I know Mrs. Miller is a
loyal council woman. I believe she would
be a good standard bearer. I know she is
courageous and I believe her to be perfectly
honest. I think very highly also of Dr.
Bower, and of course there are other splen-
did women, but they must be brought to-
gether for honest, sincere conference. Every
society must be present and present with its
best in full quota, and among the nine dele-
gates and the nine alternates to which we
are entitled in Rome next May, every sec-
tion of the country should be represented—
yours as well as every other. For the re-
vival and restoration of the Council Idea;
for its ideal of national service; for its uni-
fication of social effort; for its focusing of
scattered forces; for all these shall I, God
willing, stand and work at Port Huron—
and to work there, we must work before
going there to get every one else to be pres-
ent at what is inevitably the Council’s life
more abundant or the Council’s death.
Which shall it be? Both of your societies
share the responsibility of the answer.
	I have not until now had time to face
this question. Now, I have written you
most plainly and in utmost confidence that
you will use what I have written to help
and to heal and to bind up.
	Quite by accident I learn that my hostess
here (a very clever journalist from whom
you will probably hear in regard to “The
Society for International Amity”), who

[Column 2]
is a Christian Scientist, has been much im-
pressed with the character and ability of the
young “Mormon” men, whom she has met
in Vienna. I had told her of my intended
letter to you. This led to her commenting
on the elders of your Church whom she
has met here, and thinking that it would
please you to hear from, a Gentile of a pro-
nounced sect, such favorable comment, I
gladly repeat it here to you.
	The time is ripe for the whole world to
work for purity and for amity.
	Dear friend, continue to pray for me!
Please give my affectionate greetings to
Mrs. Gates, Mrs. Richards, all my friends
in your circle, and believe me always,
	Your affectionate friend,
			MAY WRIGHT SEWALL.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE SCHOOL.
	We are pleased to announce the revival of
the Relief Society Nurse School. The
Presidency and General Board have secured
the services of Dr. Margaret C. Roberts to
be physician instructor, and desire to urge
upon the officers of the Relief Society
throughout the Church to take up this mat-
ter immediately with the view of securing
young women to take this course of instruc-
tion and training in order to acquire the
profession of nursing.
	About one year ago the EXPONENT, re-
ferring editorially to Dr. Roberts’ classes in
Nursing and Obstetrics, said:
	“We are pleased to draw attention to this
fact [i. e., the existence of such classes] for
we realize that there is great need among
the people generally for nurses and mid-
wives. The Relief Society especially have
many calls which they find impossible to fill
among the laboring classes who do not ask
for charity work but feel unable to pay the
high prices of the hospital trained nurse;
furthermore, it is a great benefit to every
woman to have some knowledge of physiol-
ogy and hygiene; in fact in order to be an
intelligent and successful mother such
knowledge is absolutely necessary. We ac-
cordingly urge the sisters to assist in ob-
taining young women to take this course.
There are hundreds of graduates from Dr.
Roberts’ classes now practicing in different
localities with admirable success; and the
people everywhere are greatly benefited by
being able to obtain the services of these
efficient young women.”
	The Presidency and General Board of the
Relief Society, with the permission of the
First Presidency of the Church, have re-
newed the Nurse School with the intention
of developing it into a great Relief Society
activity.
	Circulars containing information regard-
ing this school have already been sent to the
officers of all the Relief Societies, and they
are respectfully urged to make a special
effort to secure students for this work.
	The time is short between now and the
time for opening the school—October 8,
1913—therefore it will require prompt and
earnest endeavor to secure members neces-
sary to success.
	Presidents, please give this business right
of way, and let every society try to have
representatives to attend the Nurse School.


THE VALUE OF OUR CLASS WORK.
	A paper prepared, and read by Sister Vin-
cy R. Barker at the annual conference of the
Relief Society of the Ogden stake, July 19,
1913.
	“With all thy getting get understanding.”
The Glory of God is intelligence.” Intelli-
gence is education, and education is the
harmonious development of all our powers.
As ordinarily used it is the development and
cultivation of our intellectual powers.
	The daughters of Zion, the mothers in
Israel have long hungered and thirsted for
that mental and spiritual exercise that will
help us to keep pace with our husbands
and children.
	We have been deprived of this in a great
measure by our too close application to the
cares and responsibilities of family and
home. At times we have chafed under it
while knowing that home should be the most
sacred spot on earth, yet we were lacking in
spiritual and intellectual strength to make
it so.
	Sometimes one has felt the impulse to
fly away and leave it all for very weariness,
indeed it has sometimes been positively nec-
essary to have change and activity of our.
dormant faculties. A thoughtless word, a
careless act from some loved one has been
enough to break the nervous tension and
flee we must or collapse. Too much ner-
vous strain, too little variety, overtaxation
of the physical, starvation of the mental and
spiritual, oh what a pitiful condition when
a mother feels like a prisoner in her own
home, doomed to a life of drudgery, the
same routine day by day and year after
year.
	Sisters, I know whereof I speak. We
understand by what we suffer. I had been
in some form of class work all my life until
about four years previous to the organiza-
tion of the Ogden stake. During that four
years, I have often gone out into the night
after my family were asleep, feeling that my
life was worth nothing but as a-dish washer.-
Sometimes I would walk and walk before
my pent feelings grew calm.
With each step my sad heart became lighter,
	Life’s turmoil to quell; Nature’s balm
		strove,
I returned to my home, found it brighter,
	Filled with- health, plenty, quiet and love.
	I knew that love and confidence for me
filled every heart. I thanked the Lord for
my blessings and took up my work of lov-
ing service again, but I could not drive out
of my heart the yearning for association
with others, the pining for systematic study,
the craving for broader activities which
were satisfied only when I was called to la-
bor in the class work department of the Re-
lief Society.
	It means work, oh yes ancl plenty of it!
but oh, the glorious opportunity of doing
active, effective, directed work along lines
that have been crowded out of our daily
routine; work that exercises faculties and
powers that have lain dormant so long that
many have come to believe that they do
not possess them at all. Oh the Joy that
comes to the class teacher when she sees
these powers awakening in her class. With
aroused interest a wistful longing expression
comes into the faces of the sisters; the desire
to do is approaching the inner soul is beings
reached; heart meets heart in love and sym-


[Column 1]
pathy and understanding. Sympathy is the
class teacher’s key and she feels with Elbert
Hubbard that, “No person is great who
does not possess sympathy.” Your heart
must go out to all men, the high, the low,
the rich, the poor, the learned, the unlearned,
the good, the bad, the wise, the foolish. It
is necessary to be one with them all, else you
can never understand them.
	The introduction of class work into the
Relief Society came as a boon to us all; it is
a means of education and uplift that all
may grasp and thus enlarge our horizon,
expand our sphere of usefulness and make
of ourselves what our Heavenly Father ex-
pects at our hands.
	The value of the different courses of
study is so broad that they reach every part
of us. Hygiene for middle age not only
helps those of that age to pass successfully
through that period but prepares the young
mothers for its approach by teaching them to
live now for what is before them.
	The “Young Mother’s Work” teaches
them to better understand their children and
how to direct their efforts for good, how to
play with them, and the value of play, with
the result that they keep closer to their chil-
dren; they bring themselves back to child-
hood and see things through children’s eyes,
understand with their understanding and
enjoy with a child’s enjoyment, thus their 
companionship is complete, exemplifying the
thought, “and a little child shall lead them.”
Together they watch for the manifestations
of God.
	“In the sun, the moon, the sky,
	In the mountains wide and high,
	In the thunder, in the rain,
	In the winds, the woods, the plain,
	In the little birds that sing,
	God is seen in everything.”
	A study of current events broadens us by
showing a view of the world and its pro-
gress, a knowledge of its important events
and that the turmoil that at present exists
is in fulfilment of prophecies by our own
Prophet Joseph Smith. This is all an added
testimony to us of the divinity of his mis-
sion.
	Biographies of the noble women of our
Church and of the world are an inspiration
to us. “Sewing Topics” gives us valuable
thoughts for discussion in our sewing meet-
ings, thus eliminating gossip and light-
mindedness. The Theological gives us a
more definite understanding of the princi-
ples of the Gospel, making us broader mind-
ed and better, able to defend the faith than
ever before. By coming in contact with
other faiths we intensify our own by com-
parison. The Genealogical work is of tre-
mendous import. To us above all people
on the earth, it is important. It is necessary
for us to keep in touch with the great world
movement in this line of work. It has three
distinct phases, the social, the scientific and
the spiritual. Many people spend much time
and money tracing their pedigree to estab-
lish their relationship to noted personages
or nobility, etc., to gratify pride or to be-
come eligible to societies such as the “Sons
and Daughters of the Revolution,” “Daugh-
ters of the Pioneers,” etc. This is the social
side. The scientific phase brings into gene-
alogy the science of eugenics or heredity,
which when studied and applied will tend
to improve the race physically and mentally

[Column 2]
by teaching the value of proper mating. An
article by Stoddard Goodhue, in the July
“Cosmopolitan magazine” teaches that every
man and woman should know the ancestry
of the contemplated marriage partner, and
knowing it, have the courage, if there is
any taint, to put aside present happiness for
the good of the race. The editor’s note on
this article says—“Have I the right to get
married? if already married, have I the
right to have children? If I have children
will they be healthy in mind and body or will
they be feeble-minded or consumptive, or
epileptic, or so sickly and defective that they
will be a burden to themselves and to their
parents?” The time is coming when every
intelligent man and woman must ask him-
self or herself such questions as those—di-
rect personal, practical questions. The new
knowledge of heredity makes it imperative
to do so. The long controversy about the
relative influence of heredity and environ-
ment has been settled for all time. We
know now that the possibilities of any in-
dividual are determined before birth; if you
are to select a marriage partner wisely and
gie your prospective children half a chance
in life, you must be familiar with at least
the essentials of this new knowledge. Last
and best is the spiritual phase, which in-
volves the keeping of genealogy for further-
ing the work of salvation of the living and
the dead, and the binding together of fami-
lies for time and all eternity. I might have
added another phase, the technical—or the
art of collecting and recording data. This
part of the work was given in our gene-
alogical class, taught by Sister Annie Lynch
of the Woman’s Committee of the genealog-
cal association and as a result of the prec-
ous seed sown by her we have aimed to
put theory into practice. Knowing that the
records in the majority of the homes of the
Saints are in a deplorable condition, no
thought being given to the recording of
passing events, we have prepared a form,
containing the direct ancestry of husband
and wife back to the second great grand par-
ents, the children of the couple, and whom
they married, and the work the sister is now
performing in the Church as also a place
for all she has heretofore done. Practice
may never strictly conform to theory but
we believe that great good will result from
the work thus begun.
	One cannot fill out our form without feel-
ing the force of our two mottos, “Record
data today, tomorrow it may be beyond your
reach,” and, “We who forget the past have
no claim to be remembered by the future.”
There never will come a time when the
chances are better than today for the pre-
serving of necessary data. Every day the
aged are passing away and with them valu-
able information which we may sorely need
but be unable to secure, and therefore we
are working to secure actual, authentic data
and have it properly recorded and placed on
file in our societies for future use. The
great amount of work that thisrequires
makes us feel that, “The man is greatest
who best serves his kind.”
	Sympathy and knowledge are for use—
you acquire that you may give out you ac-
cumulate that you may bestow. And as
God has given you the sublime blessings of
sympathy, and wisdom, there will come to
you the wish to reveal your gratitude by
giving them out again; for the wise man is
aware that we receive only as we give. Let

[Column 3]
your light shine; “To him that hath shall be
given.”
	We get inspiration only as we fit ourselves
to receive it. Let us get that we may give,
knowing that our work leads us to wisdom,
sympathy, education and the glory of God.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


IDOLS.
When men made idols, carving the blank eyes,
The speechless lips, the nerveless, helpless
	hands,
The solid heads of undisputed wood—
Moulding of brass or bronze the hollow dolls—
They none the less bowed down and worshiped
	them;
Worshiped the vacant images they made;
All men were bidden to respect the gods.
Now men make laws; make, unmake and amend;
The road behind them strewn with laws out-
	grown,
The space around them thick with laws re-
	pealed;
Men at their pleasure make what laws they
	choose.
And of this mass, some laws are unenforced
Some fallen into scornful disrepute,
And all to be evaded if one hires
A costly champion learned in the game.
Yet we are told to have respect for law!
				—Charlotte Perkins Gilman


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of Box
Elder stake convened June 18, 1913, Presi-
dent Sarah P. Stohl, presiding.
	Present besides Relief Society stake offi-
cers. Presidents Oleen N. Stohl and W. G.
Horsley, and General President of the Re-
lief Society Emmeline B. Wells.
	Singing “For the strength of the hills,”
etc.
	Opening prayer by Sister Emelia D. Mad-
sen.
	Singing by Relief Society choir, “There
is sunshine in my soul.”
	Roll was called, showing 314 present.
	Minutes of previous forenoon conference
read and approved.
	President Sarah P. Stohl was pleased to
see so many sisters present this morning;
felt to welcome all, and felt we would have
a profitable time together today; was
pleased to welcome our worthy President,
Sister Wells, who had come all alone to
visit us. Said the 18th had been set apart as
a holiday, but on account of entertaining
the old folks we decided to hold our confer-
ence today. Prayed the blessings of the
Lord upon all.
	Sisters Sarah Fredahl and Sophia Jensen
each gave reports of the associations at Bear
River City and Mantua.
	“Kind words are sweet tones of-the
heart” was sung by the choir, with Sister
Hortense Nelsen singing the solo.
	Sister Sophy Valentine gave a talk on
the “Evolution of Woman,” giving the posi-
tion of woman in the home and society from
the early periods down.
	President Emmeline B. Wells said she
was very pleased and gratified in seeing
so many here was interested in all she had
heard, particularly in the talk on the “Evo-
lution of Woman;” thought it was a very
nteresting subject said the Relief Society
work was increasing very materially. She
was proud of Box Elder stake; spoke of
President Lorenzo Snow and his sister
Eliza R. Snow, and the work done in this


[Column 1]
stake; spoke on the outlines and the high
work they hoped to accomplish; said they
“desired to have weekly meetings held gen-
erally; spoke on and explained a summary
report they would expect at the October
conference on the work we were doing in
the stake; advised the sisters in looking after
their children and on promoting faith in
them; said We are a favored people. May
the Lord bless you all.
	President Sarah Stohl hoped all would
stay and participate in the social noon hour;
felt we had been inspired in our work in
holding our weekly meetings and in our
getting out report blanks; felt the Lord
would bless us with His spirit today; that
we would have a good social time together.
	Singing, “Sowing, daily sowing.”
	Prayer by Brother Oluf Jensen.
	2 p. m.—After opening exercises min-
utes of previous afternoon conference read
and approved.
	President Sarah Stohl was pleased with
the good attendance this afternoon; said we
would hear from some of the sisters, and
have a report for one month read.
	Sister Rose M. Wheatly gave a report of
Honeyville association.
	Sister Julia A. Richards read a report of
the work done in the stake for one month.
Kindergarten work was taken up. In-
troductory remarks were made by Sister
Lula B. Call, stake chairman of kindergar-
ten work; was thankful for this work as it
opened up an avenue for our minds and
thoughts to work upon; spoke on the lec-
tures and games, and the way the lessons
were to be handled in the associations.
	Sister Emeline P. Watkins combined the
two lessons, The Child as an Imitator, and
Social Development, and also gave briefly
a sketch of the Montessori Mother, and the
work in her school.
	Supplementary Kindergarten work by
Sister Emma Vance; treated in general the
work of the outlines as given in our weekly
meetings.
	Sister Emmeline B. Wells said one would
seem certainly uplifted in what we had
heard this afternoon; spoke in regard to
nurses and their high price; said they were
going to have Relief Society nurse classes
again; spoke on genealogy work, and organ-
zing of classes; also on obedience; related
ncidents of her own conversion to the
Church, and her acquaintance with the
Prophet, and her feelings when in his pres-
ence; gave many of the qualifications he
possessed; bore a strong testimony to the
truth of this Gospel.
	Brother W. C. Horsley said we must
work more unitedly together to make a bet-
ter community; spoke on company that
some of our young girls keep; read a short
piece on unity.
	President Oleen N. Stohl said there has
been a sweet influence here all day; had been
nterested in the singing; said we were born
spirits of our heavenly parents and we had
to go through experiences to become per-
fect; spoke on the power of the evil one, and
how he works to try to overpower; said the
struggle was on, and it was with us to try
to do our part and it was worthy of our best
efforts to press on. May the Lord bless us
all in this great work.
	President Sarah Stohl said she would like
to tell the sisters that Sister Wells’ age was
85 years, and her dress was home made silk;

[Column 2]
was well pleased with the social hour, and
hoped to have more attend our meetings;
said a few words on the free will offering
to help defray the General Board expenses;
made other closing remarks.
	Sister Wells wished to express her feel-
ing s for her kind reception, and the beau-
tiful things she had heard, and for every-
thing said and done. During the confer-
ence beautiful music was rendered.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
	Singing, “Oh, awake my slumbering min-
strel.”
	Benediction by Emmeline B. Wells.
				SARAH E. STOHL, Pres.
	ANNIE H. LITTLEWOOD, Stake Sec.

			ONEIDA STAKE.
	Minutes of Oneida stake Relief Society
conference held in the First Ward assem-
bly hall, June 28, 1913, President L. B.
Benson presiding.
	There were present: President Emme-
line B. Wells of the General Board, Lydia
D. Alder of Salt Lake, Stake Counselor
Taylor Nelson, and 13 members of the Re-
lief Society board. After opening exercises
the statistical and financial report was read.
	President Benson reported the Relief So-
ciety organization of the stake in good or-
der, the aged and poor being well cared for,
the lessons especially being appreciated.
	Sylvia L. Jensen reported the mothers’
work and showed the benefit of this study.
	A review of the Book of Mormon as
taken up by the Relief Society was given by
Lydia N. Benson.
	Lesson 6 from- Book of Mormon study
was given by Amy C. Ballif.
	The following local societies, reported:
Weston, Mink Creek, Preston 4th and 3rd
wards.
	President Emmeline B. Wells addressed
the conference; said she was delighted to see
the improvement that is manifest. Encour-
aged presidents to work for a better average
attendance. As our work is more systematic
we should hope for greater results arid be-
come more intellectual, not forgetting the
spiritual part. She also urged that the
genealogical work be taken up in this stake.
For general information it was asked that
a record be made of all things accomplished
in the Relief Societies, such as making of
quilts, building houses, Sunday eggs gath-
ered, etc. All contributions for any great
cause should be sent to the General Sec-
retary.
	President Benson explained the transac-
tion of sending the wheat to the Richfield
elevator.
	Afternoon Session—Singing, “Our God
we raise to Thee.”
	Prayer by Bishop Stone of Mapleton.
	Singing, “School thy feelings.”
	Roll was called, 19 societies represented.
	Local societies represented and reported
as follows: Oxford, Treasureton, Glencoe.
	Lydia D. Alder bore testimony to the
Gospel and spoke on the “Holy Land.”
	President Wells again addressed the con-
ference; spoke on the interest our people
have in Joseph Smith, and of his wonderful
work, related how she first saw him when
a girl and of the wonderful thrill that she

[Column 3]
felt, of the divinity of his work, and of her
baptism on March 1, 1842. Told of a
miraculous healing of a lame-girl on this
same day. Bore a strong testimony of the
power of the Prophet, said she heard all
of his last addresses and described very
minutely what is known as the “Transfig-
uration.” Told of her acquaintance with
Mother Whitney, who had the gift of speak-
ing and singing in tongues, which the
Prophet said was the language. spoken in
the garden of Eden. Invoked the blessing
of God on all.
	Solomon H. Hale told of his having seen
the Prophet, of his love for and blessing his
mother. Spoke of Emma Hale as an intel-
ligent, beautiful woman, an “elect lady,”
the first president of the Relief Society.
	President Benson said Sisters Head and
Packer, living now in Preston, had both
seen the Prophet and the “Transfiguration.”
	President Taylor Nelson said his father
was baptized by the Prophet in July, 1842,
is still living.
	President Taylor Nelson prayed that all
would remember the testimonies that they
heard of the divinity of the Prophet and his
wonderful work.
	Geo. C. Parkinson appreciated the priv-
lege of being present to hear the testimonies
of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph
Smith.
	Singing, “For the strength of the hills we
bless Thee.”
	During the services beautiful music was
rendered by the Misses Merrill, Kershaw,
Nelson, Packer, Paul Benson, and a recita
tion by Linda Benson.
	Benediction, Emmeline B. Wells.
			PHEBE A. M. MCNIEL, Sec.

		NORTH SANPETE STAKE.
	Relief Society conference of North San-
pete stake held in Mt. Pleasant, June 29,
1913, President Williamina Ericksen pre-
siding.
	Roll was called, showing 75 visiting offi-
cers and members present. Minutes of
previous conference were read and accepted.
	President Ericksen welcomed the sisters
and was indeed pleased to see so many
present; was also pleased we had a sister
from the General Board to visit us.
	The General Board and local officers were
sustained.
	Sister Larsen from Spring City and Sister
Guymon from Fountain Green each report-
ed their wards as doing the best they could
and preparing for the calls made of them in
various ways.
	Sister Sarah Fowles reported the Fair-
view ward as also doing a good work. In
the last four years had gathered Sunday
eggs amounting to $2,000. Had assisted the
bishop in the building of the meeting house,
with donations and Sunday eggs, $3,000.
	Sister McLellan from the General Board
was indeed pleased to be present, and
thought it a great pleasure to the president
to see such a large attendance from the
adjoining wards. She had learned to love
the Relief Society work since she had been
called to work with the sisters. We learn
to do by doing. President Smith advised
the people to teach our children in regard


[Column 1]
to styles and fashions. Each organization
should sustain every other organization. The
Lord overrules all and He makes no mistake
in choosing our leaders. Brought greetings
from President Wells. At her advanced
age is still active; was visiting four confer-
ences. Said it was the largest forenoon ses-
sion she had met; felt Sister Wells would
be delighted to be here this morning. Spoke
of temple work and the laying away of the
dead; gave some instructions as given by
Joseph E. Taylor, in laying away the dead.
The Relief Society sisters should know how
to do these things correctly, they should be
authority on this subject. The position of
the Mormons in an educational way stands
third in the Union, even if we are misrep-
resented in the world. Advised all to look
after their genealogy, keeping proper re-
cords and having work done. The General
Board had opened a house for the accom-
modation of visitors and girls coming from
the country.
	Sister Maud Accord from Spring City
gave a talk on “Self Improvement.”
	Closing remarks by President Ericksen.
	Relief Society conference reconvened at
2 p. m., President Ericksen presiding.
After opening exercises President Ericksen
made a few remarks.
	Sister Mary J. Blackman, of Moroni, gave
a talk on “Charity.”
	Sister McLellan was indeed pleased to
meet such a large audience of both men and
women; spoke of her labors in the mission
field; explained the mission work and bless-
ings received through our efforts put forth
in doing good; spoke of her visit to Nauvoo
and Carthage jail; gave some very
good advice to the teachers and encouraged
them in their noble and grand work.
	President C. N. Lund felt pleased and
much interested in the meetings of the day,
and the good attendance from the wards;
was thankful for the timely and good ad-
vice given, and it was important that all
sisters be present to receive such instruc-
tions; felt this was the best conference held
in the stake; was grateful for the Relief
Society organization.
	Sister Estella Miner from Fairview gave
a very excellent reading, “The Artist’s
Picture.”
	Closing remarks by President Ericksen.
The stake officers had made an effort to
visit all the wards in the stake before con-
ference.
	Beautiful music was rendered by the choir
and the Misses Lewis and Price.
		FRANCES E. CHRISTENSEN,
						Stake Secretary.
			OGDEN STAKE.
	The annual conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the Ogden stake was held in the
Relief Society hall, at Ogden, Utah, on
saturday, July 19, 1913, at 10:30 a. m. and
2 p. m. with a prayer meeting at 10 a. m.,
preceding the morning session.
	Owing to the illness of Stake President
Sarah M. Taylor, she was unable to meet
with us and 1st Counselor Isabel Foulger
presided and conducted both sessions of
the conference.
	Present on the stand were Sisters Julia
P. M. Farnsworth and Alice M. Horne of
the General Board of the R. S., Elder
Elijah A. Larkin of the High Council, Sis-

[Column 2]
ter M. Maddock of the Y. L. M. I. A. stake
Board, eleven members of the R. S. stake
Board, and president or representative from
each of the local associations.
	After the opening exercises Second Coun-
selor L. Letitia Richards welcomed all pres-
ent.
	Reports from the local associations fol-
lowed, a special feature of which was with
reference to attendance of officers and work-
ers at sacrament meetings, preparation meet-
ings and prayer meetings and the effects of
the same on the Relief Society. The results as
reported were that the sacrament meetings
are being better attended by our officers than
formerly, which means a larger spiritual
growth; the preparation meeting is aiding
them in better preparation of lessons and
conducting of meetings and general detail,
while the prayer meeting, preceding the gen-
eral meeting, fits and qualifies each attend-
ant for the work in hand. The sick and
poor were being cared for and the work in
general progressing.
	A most excellent paper on “The Value of
Our Class Work,” was given by Sister
Vincy R. Barker, after which Secretary Nel-
lie Becraft briefly reported the work done
by the R. S. stake Board during the past
three months; weekly visits are made to
the local associations and help given them in
every way possible, besides a large num-
ber of visits to the sick are made.
	Sister Farnsworth of the General Board,
was delighted with the spirit of the confer-
ence, the singing, the reports and every-
thing done and felt that benefit would result
from the same.
	Sister Horne of the General Board felt it
to be a privilege to be present; had looked
over our “outlines” and was convinced more
deeply than before, of the practicability of
each stake planning its own work.
	After singing, the benediction was pro-
nounced by Counselor Larkin of the High
Council, and during the noon period a
luncheon was served and a social time was
spent.
	The afternoon session was a Memorial
Service in memory of Weber stake first Re-
lief Society President, Sister Jane S. Rich-
arde.
	In addition to those on the stand at the
morning session there were present Charles
C. Richards of the stake Presidency
and Elder William S. Wright of the 
stake Presidency of the Y. M. M. I. A., who
with Sister Maddock of the Y. L. M. I. A. 
added to the enjoyment of the conference by
their sweet singing.
	After the opening exercises a Life Sketch
of Sister Richards was given by Sister Nel-
lie Becraft.
	Sister Farnsworth of the General Board
paid a beautiful tribute to the memory of
Sister Richards, whom she had known and
loved and always looked upon as one of the
foremost women in the church; thought
this day should continue to be fittingly ob-

[Column 3]
served as it meant so much to the sisters and
to the community where Sister Richards had
accomplished so great a work.
	Sister Horne of the General Board con-
sidered it a great privilege to have known
Apostle and Sister Richards; they were
both the embodiment of all that was good
and noble. Sister Richards was a woman
of great wisdom and of the broadest char-
ity; it has been well said that she was a 
statesman and her executive ability of a very
high order; her home life was most beauti-
ful and she was certainly worthy of being
the first Relief Society stake President.
	President Richards has heard so many
good things said of his parents that his
heart was deeply touched; he was glad of
the work they had done, the record they
had made and the treasures they had laid
up where neither moth nor rust could cor-
rupt nor thieves break through and steal.
	Counselor Foulger said our minds have
been carried back to the days of our child-
hood, when Sister Richards gathered in all
the young girls, teaching us valuable les-
sons in her motherly way, until we were fin-
ally organized into the Y. L. M. I. A. Hers
was a beautiful life service,  nothing was
ever allowed to interfere with duty.
	We feel that our conference was a most
enjoyable one and one to be remembered
and cherished.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	The Pacific Coast Woman’s Press. Asso-
ciation open their meetings this year with a
splendid program, beginning Sept. 8. Much
attention in their papers and discussions is
given to the Panama Canal—that being for
the present the most absorbing topic for
the western press. Monday, Sept. 22, is
Members Day, when no guests will be per-
mitted, no papers read and all talks limited
to two minutes. There will be besides the
business of the association, discussions on
the following subjects: “Within the Law,”
“My Little Sister,” “The New Chivalry;”
and it is safe to predict a very lively time
among the women editors during these dis-
cussions.


THIRTY-FOURTH
	ANNUAL ANNOUNCEMENT
				OF
		Dr. Ellis R. Shipp’s
	SCHOOL OF NURSING
		AND OBSTETRICS
	Beginning October 6, 1913.
		Hours 9 to 12 a.m.
For full particulars communicate with
		ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.
713 Second Avenue, Salt Lake City, Utah

R K. THOMAS CO.,		67-69 MAIN STREET,
						SALT LAKE CITY.
	The most becoming Styles in Ladies’
	Suits, Coats, Dresses, Skirts, and
	Waists at Popular Prices. ....
THE STORE WHERE YOU CAN FEEL AT HOME


<Marilla M Daniels>
					WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
		The Organ of the Latter-day Saints’ Woman’s Relief Society.
Vol. 41.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER, 1913		No. 11.


CONTENTS.
Aunt Esther’s Sweetheart...........................	73
Relief Society Reports:
	Uintah Stake.......................................	79
	San Xuis Stake....................................	80
Editorial:
	The Monument to the Gulls................	76
	General Relief Society Conference.....	77
	Correspondence...................................	79
Notes.......................................................75,	80
Poetry:
	The White Rose...Annie Wells Cannon	7[-]
	Earth-Mother.....Queenie Scott-Hopper	75


THE WHITE ROSE.
In the hush of the night I wandered
	Through my garden, I love so well,
In the lush of the grass I lingered,
	While the dew on the flowers fell.
Faint odors of violets, and blue bells,
	And delicate white-rose breath
Enshrined me, while in the starlight
	I mused on the mystery of death.
There are beautiful things in my garden,
	Some tender and young, and some old.
Graceful trees, sturdy shrubs,
	Bright flowers, red, purple and gold;
But of all the fair things around me
	My tenderest thoughts to disclose,
The sweetest, and dearest, believe me,
	Is the tall, frail and fragrant white rose.
A loved one that day had departed,
	A maiden most fair to behold
Had answered the call of the master,
	Had entered the heavenly fold.
The hearts that had known and loved her,
	Were stricken with grief and despair,
In the darkness of sorrow were wandering,
	Where asking the why? and the where?
With the shadows of darkness around me
	In the stillness of night’s repose,
A glorious star fell before me
	And lighted my path to the rose.
Then an angel appeared in my garden,
	And all was a luminous light,
For the veil from my eyelids was lifted,
	Held back were the curtains of night.
Twas a morning of glory celestial!
	And there in God’s garden sublime,
Were gathered the souls of the mortals
	I had known through my own life-time.
Then the voice of the angel addressed me,
	“Men, women and children behold!
And here, is the tender white maiden,
	Most precious of all in the fold.”
Men live out their own destination
	Complete, when called to their rest,
And children, not knowing temptation,
	Return with the just and the blest;
But the youth, and the maiden most precious,
	Something give of the sweetness of life,
Then are lost to the world and its sorrows,
	Its struggles, its pain, and its strife.
And there, in God’s heavenly garden,
	Sweet peace and love’s fragrance disclose!
Just as here, .’mong these beautiful flowers,
	Lives the tenderly treasured—white rose.
				ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


[Column 1]
	AUNT ESTHER’S SWEETHEART.
			(CONCLUDED.)
	Meantime both Aunt Esther and Alice
wrote to Harry of the religion they had em-
braced; they were full of zeal and desirous
that he should become a convert. But he
was at that time under quite a different in-
fluence; and his answers to their letters were

[Column 2]
very unsatisfactory; but they did not lose
courage. Alice was using all her eloquence
at home to persuade Richard Ashburn to
join the Church of Latter-day Saints, and
her efforts were not in vain. Before many
days she had the satisfaction of knowing
that he had esqoused the same religious
faith.
	Of all those who had been converted
Aunt Esther was really the most zealous
and content. Heretofore she had not been
religiously inclined, but she had had many
msigivings with regard to a step she ever
contemplated taking, though she had main-
tained her reputation and escaped almost
miraculously from falling into disgrace.
She knew, as no one else did, or could
know, how she had been tempted to leave
her husband’s house forever, and go into a
foreign land with the man she loved, with
all the fervor of youthful attachment, but
whom her parents had not allowed her to
marry. He had come to her at a time when
she had felt the most desperate, had read
her heart, when her whole soul revolted
against the bondage she was undergoing,
and urged her to fly with him; and she had
even tried to persuade herself that the step
Sidney Manning entreated her to take, was
no more a sin in the sight of heaven, than
the domestic life she was compelled to live,
with the husband to whom she was bound
by marriage vows. Some good angel stood
by her then, and at the last moment, as it
were, when all had been cautiously arranged
and her lover was waiting in anxious ex-
pectancy, she finally resolved to preserve her
honor and that of her husband, and remain
true to her womanhood, and to her mar-
riage vows and suffer wrong, rather than
commit an act that would forever debar her
from associations of the friends she loved;
and an error, too, which to her now thor-
oughly awakened consciousness of its gross
wickedness, she felt sure would end in de-
spair and hopeless degradation. And as a
last resort she sent her faithful maid alone,
in the dead silence of the night, to tell her
old sweetheart that she could not consent
to go with him, and he must never attempt
to see her again. Poor Polly, she never
dared to tell her mistress all the dreadful
things Sidney Manning said, there in the
darkness, when she delivered her message.
And so that part of the romance ended, and
he went far away, and finally secured a
position in a mercantile house in India, and
amassed wealth, for it was the lack of riches
that had deprived him of his darling Esther,
and he was determined to accumulate means
enough to make her a home suited to her
circumstances, should she ever be free again
to choose for herself. And he would wait
until that time came, always believing in
her affection and trusting in his knowledge
of her character. He esteemed her far
more for the sacrifice she made in giving
him up, when in his mistaken sense of right
he would have stolen another man’s wife.
She had saved herself and him, too, and
when far away from her in a foreign land,
and meditating upon her loveliness of char-

[Column 3]
acter, he could appreciate the strength and
fortitude she manifested in withstanding
the great temptation.
	When Sidney Manning heard of the sud-
den death of Esther’s husband, he had mas-
tered his feelings to such an extent that he
did not rejoice; and he waited on, wonder-
ing if she would make any sign to him, any
recognition of her first promise that she had
never redeemed. But she did not, she was
too proud for that, and the impulsive girl
had changed into a well-developed woman.
So after a time he wrote, and Esther Dan-
forth took months to deliberate before re-
plying; and when she did write, was care-
ful not to make any sort of compromise.
Had it not been for the thrilling episode in
their lives, that came near ending in a trag-
edy, she would have acted differently; now
she was doubly reserved. Bye and bye, he
wrote again, then she said, “Wait,” and he
had waited long enough, he thought, for her,
and too long, by far, for him.
	One morning at breakfast time, Uncle
William handed Aunt Esther a letter, in
Polly’s handwriting, which gave her no con-
cern, but as she opened it, another letter fell
out upon the table. Alice caught it up think-
ing it might be for her, but Esther had seen
the name, and knew instantly that it was
from her old sweetheart.
	“Excuse me, Aunt Esther,” said Alice, “it
is for you after all, but such a peculiar hand,
looks like foreign paper; but there’s no post-
mark. There must be visitors at the
Wren’s Nest—what does Polly say?”
	There was no help for it, Aunt Esther
must answer, her face was flushing she
knew and, trying to be as calm as possible,
turning to her sister, who was eyeing her
very closely, she stammered out, “Sidney—
Mr. Manning—I mean, he’s returned from
abroad.”
	“And pray who is Sidney—Mr. Manning,
Auntie?”
	Before she could reply, Aunt Jane had
spoken for her,
	“Your Aunt Esther’s old sweetheart
Alice!”
	Mrs. Danforth protested and blushed a
deeper crimson; but the secret was out nev-
ertheless, and Alice was delighted.
	“O, that’s what Polly meant when she
said you had a romance in your life.”
	“What can Polly know of my sister’s
sweetheart? She was nothing but a child
when this affair with Sidney Manning oc-
curred, that was why we all called him
Esther’s sweetheart. Father and mother
didn’t approve of children being engaged,
and broke the matter off, and my sister was
sent away from home to cure her. But I
always had an idea it was a kind of hope-
less case, for he never married, at least we
never heard of it, and as for Esther, she is
blushing to the very tips of her ears, for all
the world like a young girl of 16, and she’s
six and thirty.”
	“Isn’t it enough to make any one blush,
to have such things repeated in one’s pres-
ence. I wish Sidney Manning had stayed
in India.”


[Column 1]
	“In India, Auntie, well if that isn’t fine, a
rich uncle from India for the holidays after
all. Can’t you invite him to come here,
Aunt Jane?”
	That must be as my sister Esther says,”
she replied. “I should like it very much.”
	“He is not your uncle, Alice,” said Aunt
Esther, “and it’s very improper for you to
call him so, and your Aunt Jane’s house is
full of visitors already.”
	At this Alice subsided for a few moments,
but there was very little breakfast eaten by
any of the ladies that morning. Aunt Jane
recalled one remembrance after another, of
the days when Esther was a child, and it
was all very interesting for the young folks.
Alice declared it was just what she always
had thought, from fragments Polly had
dropped now and then, though how she had
found it out no one could tell, and now it
had come out accidentally and just what
she had begged Aunt Esther to tell her
about herself.
	The party Aunt Jane had intended to give
in honor of her visitors, had been postponed
from one time to another on some pretext,
and the night before the arrival of Aunt
Esther’s queer letter, the host and hostess
had come to the conclusion it should come
off on Christmas eve; it was to have been
discussed at the breakfast table when all the
family were together, but the unfortunate
letter had put it entirely out of Aunt Jane’s
mind, and upon rising from the table Aunt
Esther had gone to her room, presumably
to read her letter from home. Poor Aunt
Esther, here was another dilemma. Polly
wrote that Mr. Manning had come uncere-
moniously to the Wren’s Nest, and finding
Mrs. Danforth absent, had inquired of her
whether her mistress had received a foreign
letter recently; and she had answered truth-
fully that she had; then he wanted to know
if any message had been left for him, and
she told him there was none. Next, when
she had gone, and when she was expected
home. She had gone to M—, in Frank-
lin County, to her sister’s, Mrs. Wetherell,
and as to her return, it was indefinite. Then
Polly said, “he asked me to let him write a
letter, and would I write one and enclose it
in mine, and I hope, my dear mistress, you
will not be offended, for he seemed so sad
an disappointed that you were not here,”
and having ,finished Polly’s letter, which
contained little else, Esther Danforth broke
the seal of the other. There is always a
sort of charm about a pretty seal and it adds
to the interest of a letter’s contents. But
this letter was a “love letter,” indeed. He
accused her of running away from him and
warned her that he should follow her to the
ends of the earth, if need be: reminded her
of walks and rambles they had taken to-
gether in the beautiful past, and of the
kisses he had stolen from her sweet lips.
He seemed to have forgotten that she was
a matronly woman now, and he no longer
the young lover, nor the “little sweetheart.”
The longer Esther stayed and pondered
over the letter, the more bewildered she
grew. She could not see him there, it would
be worse than being at home; there, so many
would not be looking on.
	She had half a mind to pack her trunk
and go back, but that seemed impracticable;
and wavering between this and that, she
knelt and prayed for wisdom. A sweet
peace came with the prayer and she joined
the family group in the sitting room. Alice
explained, as soon as her aunt came in:

[Column 2]
	“Aunt Jane will write for Mr. Manning
to come this very day—but even then he
can’t reach here for the party.”
	“Have you any objections, Esther?” her
sister inquired.
	“Just as you please, Jane, but remember
this is your invitation, not mine,” said
Esther emphatically. The letter was dis-
patched, and Alice was eager to see what
this old sweetheart of her auntie’s was like.
and asked numerous questions; but as no
one knew much more than she did, she did
not get much of an idea. Anut Jane had said
though, that to the best of her recollection
he had a very fine figure and a handsome
face.
	Christmas eve came, and the house was
profusely decorated, for the party was to
be quite an elaborate affair for the country
town, and everyone seemed in the gayest of
spirits, except Aunt Esther, who went from
room to room, seemingly without any object
in view. Later on in the evening, when all
the guests had arrived, and the refreshments
had been served and abundantly partaken
of, a sharp ring from the old-fashioned
knocker, vibrated through the house, and
startled the company. “Who can it be at
this late hour?” said two or three in a
breath but they had not long to wait. A
stranger muffled to the chin in furs, and
covered with snow, stood in the hallway;
and in every adjacent doorway, the guests
crowded to see the newcomer. Mr. Weth-
erell guesed who he was and took him into
his, room, a sort of office, or what now-a-
days would be styled, a den. Some ex-
planations were made by the stranger and
he excused himself for being muffled, by
saying he had been so long accustomed to
a hot climate. Mr. Wetherell treated his
guest to refreshments and after partaking
coffee, etc., he was introduced to the com-
pany assembled there, as an old-time friend
of the hostess. This was a great relief to
Aunt Esther when she heard of it, after-
wards; as she was suffering, meantime, not
knowing what excuse had been made for
his unexpected appearance.
	Mr. Manning was very affable and digni-
fied in manner, and a perfect master of lan-
guage in conversation. His extensive travels
abroad had given him ease and grace in
society, and he took “the castle by storm,”
so to speak. The girls were charmed with
him and the young men were gracious and
deferential. Little he cared for all the re-
spect lavished upon him, from these warm-
hearted country people; he had only eyes
and ears for one, his lost Esther. And she
was nowhere to be seen, she had fled to her
room at the sound of his voice; she could
not meet him in the presence of others.
Finally the music ceased, and the dancers
stepped from the scene of the festivity and
rejoicing, and the family gathered around
the great blazing fire. The night was cold,
and the wind howled outside, and yet within
there was peace and hospitality and good
cheer. When the young people had left the
room, Sidney Manning ventured to inquire
of Jane, whom he had known well twenty
years ago, where her sister Mrs. Danforth
was keeping herself, while all the jollifica-
tion was going on.
	“She is very nervous tonight,” Jane re-
plied, “and extremely sensitive. She cannot
endure much excitement and retired to her
room sometime since.”
	“Indeed,” replied the gentleman, “and
shall I not be able to see her until tomorrow?

[Column 3]
and I have come so far across the sea, and
up here into these rocky hills, for that one
purpose. I must see her for a few mo-
ments; she must not refuse me will you in-
tercede for me Jane? You, who have lived
such peaceful, quiet lives, know little of the
turbulent restlessness of one tossed upon the
fateful sea of uncertainty at one moment
ready to sink, and then a fair sail in sight,
taking courage once more.”
	Mrs. Wetherell’s heart was touched with
compassion, and she promised to try and
persuade Esther to meet him that night, or
morning, for it was now past midnight.
Jane was as good as her word. She en-
treated Esther to see him for a few minutes,
if the hour was even so late; it would be a
pleasure for him.
	“Jane,” said the woman in pitying tones,
“you are mistaken; he will be disappointed;
he thinks to find me the romantic girl he left
when he went away. I am old beyond my
years, and I shall not please his fastidious
taste. It will only be a trial for me, that I
shrink from enduring.”
	“Oh, Esther, do go and let him see that
you are not afraid to meet him.”
	“Yes, Jane; I will go,” said Esther, “for I
am not a moral coward.” And she went
down, as calm and placid as a summer
morning.
	Mr. and Mrs. Wetherell left them to meet
alone, and Aunt Esther walked quietly into
the great, old-fashioned parlor to meet her
fate—her old sweetheart, expecting, she
knew not what sort of reception. But he,
hearing her soft footfall, turned quickly and
reached out his strong arms and clasped her
to his bosom, ere she had time to elude his
grasp. Neither spoke for some minutes, for
their silence was more eloquent than speech,
however daintily fashioned. At last Sidney
Manning repeated her name, but she an-
swered not. “Esther,” said he again, “we
meet once more, and we are both free. I
have waited long for this meeting; have you
nothing to say to me after all these long
years of constancy?”
	Esther felt there was a barrier, even now,
but she could not introduce the subject to-
night—it was too late to enter upon untrod-
den ground. So she only said, in the most
indifferent tone, “You must be very weary,
and my brother-in-law is waiting to show,
you to your room; tomorrow we shall have
time to renew our acquaintance; good night,
Sidney,” and she hurried from the room.
He stood by the mantel and leaned his head
upon his hand in a maze of bewilderment.
He was as much in doubt whether she loved
him or not as any young, inexperienced boy
could be. And yet she did love him pas-
sionately, but she kept the secret in her own
soul, woman-like, determined to prove him,
though she might stake her all of earthly
happiness and find herself the loser.
	During the following day and days after,
Mr. Wetherell opened up conversation with
his guest upon “Mormonism,” of which he
confessed he had never heard before, nor of
Joseph Smith, nor the Book of Mormon; he
was indifferent, he acknowledged, to all re-
ligions. He had busied himself with men,
money and schemes to accumulate wealth
while abroad, and left religion for an after
consideration. Such is the way of the world
in all ages, except in rare instances.
	Esther heard his remarks without com-
ment, but feared a wide gulf was opening
between them, which it would be difficult to
bridge; and she became more and more


[Column 1]
reticent in conversing with him. At present
Sidney Manning was bent on making love
to Esther—the young and fascinating
widow—and she was mistaken when she
told her sister on his arrival that he would
be disappointed in her appearance. Far
from it; he thought her more charming than
in her younger days, if possible.
	Alice’s courtship was progressing favor-
ably. All seemed to be smooth sailing in
their direction. Not so with the others.
Obstacles kept looming up, and Sidney
thought there was no chance at all for him.
Esther’s time was occupied with many calls
and visits. A tender word now and then
when he could meet her in the hallway
alone, was about the extent of his advan-
tages. He knew that some business had to
be attended to soon in Boston, and thought
he would go and transact it while Esther
was so much engaged, and visit her at her
own home when she returned, when he ar-
dently hoped he would be the chief attrac-
tion. The Wetherells persuaded him to re-
main until after New Year’s, and hoping
he might secure an interview on that aus-
picious day, he consented to stay until that
time. He was disappointed, however, the
house was full of callers and some friends
had been invited to dine, and the day sped
swiftly by, and he had decided to leave early
the next morning. He invited Richard Ash-
burn to accompany him, thinking it would
hurry Alice and her aunt home a few days
sooner.
	Mrs. Danforth had intended remaining
much longer, but as her niece had made up
her mind to get married in the coming
spring, she decided to go home and set about
preparations, though she did not take Sid-
ney’s case into consideration as an incentive
to her going.
	The visit had not only been a pleasant but
profitable one, and Aunt Esther realized
how great a blessing had come to her,
through the Gospel she had heard and em-
braced. She was already planning to leave
her native state and go to join the people
of her choice in the chosen home of the
Saints. About a week after Manning’s and
Richard’s departure, Aunt Esther and Alice
took the stage for home. With considerable
reluctance though, for they had met many
pleasant people, and partings give us all
more pain than pleasure. But our lives are
mostly made up of these trifles, coming and
going, meeting and parting, and we must
take the sweet along with the bitter, or we
would never know the contrast. An over-
dose of sweet is very injurious, and some-
times fatal, though we all long for it more
or less, and some people really seem to get
more than their share in this life.
	Poor Aunt Esther plainly saw that there
was to be another struggle with her feelings,
another temptation, was near, and whether
she could overcome it or not, she was
scarcely satisfied in her own mind. She
had no advisor, no one upon whom she
could lean, and her human heart cried out
sharply for the love she had never been per-
mitted to enjoy in its full completeness.
Now it was within her reach. She could
accept it if she would, but would it not be
at the sacrifice of something higher and
holier and more lasting than mere earthly
happiness at its best? Esther Danforth
prayed for guidance from above; it was her
only hope and stay.
	Aunt Esther had no trouble in convincing
Polly and Ben, her true, trusted helps, of

[Column 2]
the new religion as she called it, and when,
shortly after, some elders, who had visited
Boston, came out to Mrs. Danforth’s, who
lived a little way out in the suburbs, both of
them were ready for baptism. Others of her
neighbors, too, believed; among them the
Elmores, which was a source of joy to Aunt
Esther and Alice, especially because of
Harry.
	Sidney Manning and Richard Ashburn
were not long away from the Wren’s Nest
after its mistress returned, and many pleas-
ant evenings were spent there, happily for
all except Aunt Esther, who felt too keenly
the risk she was running; for she had known
by intuition all along, that her old sweet-
heart, as he had been christened by the
young folks, was not favorable to her views
upon religion, and to her nature it seemed a
positive necessity. He wanted her exclu-
sively, and that only he declared would sat-
isfy him. But she was different and her
needs were greater; she, too, wanted his
love and something higher and purer. Day
after day the struggle went on, until Alice’s
marriage. Then the calmness was ruffled
a little, when Mr. Manning insisted upon
their marriage on the same day with Alice
and Richard. Esther made such an em-
phatic resistance, that it came near destroy-
ing their friendly relations for the future.
	It would be quite impossible here to de-
scribe in detail the particulars of Alice’s
wedding, but suffice to say, she had every-
thing she desired and was a perfect picture
of loveliness herself. The Elmore girls were
her bridesmaids, and young Mr. Wetherell,
her cousin, was Richard’s best man. Her
rich uncle from India, as she playfully called
Mr. Manning, gave her an elegant India
shawl and several odd and pretty ornaments.
After the wedding, Mr. Manning still con-
tinued his visits to the Wren’s Nest, and as
time went on, he grew impatient of the de-
lay or the fulfillment of the dream of his
life, and used all the powers of persuasion
he possessed to get Esther to name the
happy day. At last Esther summoned all
her courage and assured him it could never
be. It almost broke her heart, the inward
struggle was so great, but she saw with a
woman’s keen intuition that her happiness
would not be secured by giving way to this
earthly love that clashed with her religion,
and she knew herself to be equal to the oc-
casion. For her “old sweetheart,” as every
one had come to call him now, she felt
deeply; he had staked all and was about to
lose. He had no faith to lean upon, and
while she talked to him, this great, strong
man sobbed like a child. When he recov-
ered himself sufficiently to speak, he said:
	“Esther, my darling, if you should change
your mind, if you should be unhappy and
want me, or if misfortune should come to
you, don’t hesitate to come to me or send
for me. I will come if I am living. I would
marry you notwithstanding the doubts you
entertain of our happiness, but I cannot
take you unless you are wholly satisfied.
And now I must go away. I dare not linger
near you, I should be desperate,” and he
caught her in his arms, showered her with
burning kisses, and the hot tears fell like
rain upon her face. A moment more, and
he was gone—fled from her forever. She
did not dare look after him, lest she should
call him back, and have to go over the same
scene again. It was over, and her “sweet-
heart” had left her. She sank upon the sofa
and gave way to a passionate burst of grief.

[Column 3]
	And now Esther’s sweetheart has gone,
we must draw our story to a close. There
is little more to tell. Poor Aunt Esther went
about her daily duties as before, only she
grew more and more tender and lovable.
For some years letters came regularly from
India, and occasionally some valuable gift.
Twice she wrote to him upon Gospel sub-
jects. She did not dare trust her pen to
speak for her of other things. By and by
the letters ceased coming and then she knew
Sidney Manning was dead. She remained
constant in her devotion to her old sweet-
heart, and never married after, though she
had many opportunities. She devoted her
time, her means, and her energies, all to
doing good for others in the household of
faith, and many there were who received
blessings at her hands.
				EMMELINE B. WELLS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EARTH-MOTHER.
Earth, Mother Earth, I lie down with my cheek
		to thee,
	Warm with the sunshine and rough with the
		rain!
Thus, as a child, would I nestle and speak to
		thee,
	Feeling the pulse of thee answer again.
Dear Mother Earth, with such wealth at the
		heart of thee,
	Bringing forth gifts at the Word of the Lord,
Kinship is ours, for they child is a part of
		thee—
	Thus let our hearts beat in tranquil accord!
Poppies burn red, and winged grass-seeds blow
		airily;
	White wave the corn-crests ’gainst blue of
		the sky;
Gleans Brother Harvest-Mouse, watching me
		warily—
	All of them children of thine, as am I!
Children of thine—thou hast reared up a host
		of them,
	Each turning home when his day’s work is
		past!
Room waits for me, where thou hidest the most
		of them—
	How should I fear when it comes to the last?
How should I shrink when thine arms are out-
		spread for me,
	Done with life’s quest in the sun and the
		rain—
When, of thy kindness, thou makest a bed for
		me,
	Folding thy child to thy bosom again?
Field-mouse and poet shall rest there right
		brotherly—
	Lowly or great nevermore they are styled.
Earth, thou art gracious, and, Earth, thou art
		motherly—
	Earth creeps to Earth with the trust of a
		child!
				QUEENIE SCOTT HOPPER.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	On the 3rd of November, another stake
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints was added to the chain. The Boise
stake, comprising that large tract of terri-
tory reaching from the Snake river on the
east, to Ontario, Oregon, on the west, and
embracing within its limits twelve counties.
Heber O. Hale is the stake president, and
has most able counselors and other officers
associated with him. The Relief Society
president for the new stake is Sister Mary
A. Rawson. The new stake is distinctive in
that it is the only single stake which has
its headquarters in the state capital.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,	-	NOVEMBER, 1913


[Column 1]
THE MONUMENT TO THE GULLS.
	The morning of October second wit-
nessed one of the prettiest incidents in the
history of Utah, the occasion of the un-
veiling of the Sea Gull Monument. Long
before the time stated for the ceremonies,
a throng of people had assembled on the
Temple Square to witness the unveiling. On
a temporary platform were seated the First
Presidency and other Church officials, the
sculptor Mahonri M. Young, Senator
Smoot, and Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, who
had been selected to draw the cords for the
unveiling of the monument. Presiding
Bishop Charles W. Nibley was master of
ceremonies and after a selection by the
Tabernacle Choir introduced Mrs. Wells to
the assembled throng. We take the liberty
of quoting this part of the proceedings from
one of the daily papers; it read as fol-
lows—
	Shorty before eleven’ o’clock this morning
an aged, sweet-faced woman, whom Bishop
C. W. Nibley referred to as a young lady of
21 years was assisted from the speakers’
stand in the temple grounds, to the spot
where were the several ropes which held
two large American flags draped about the
monument.
	Following a short but beautiful speech,
she pulled gentlv at two of the ropes and
one of the flags slowly floated to the ground
below. The crowd bared their heads and a
few seconds later the second flag fell to the
ground. The woman was Mrs. Emmeline
B. Wells, beloved president of the Relief
Society. Mrs. Wells said she witnessed the
devastation of the first crops bv the crick-
ets. She has told the story manv times of
how the thousands of gulls came to the val-
ley when the little band of pioneers had al-
most given up hope that the crops would
be saved. She was a young girl in those
days, but the picture of the gulls flying
from the Great Salt Lake, and how they
gorged the crickets was always vivid in her
mind. She further said: “It is a poetic
coincidence that our idea of national free-
dom from oppression, and our idea of state
deliverance from starvation, should be rep-
resented by birds. The eagle, maiestic mon-
arch of the air, is represented on shield and
coin and tablets of bronze all over the broad
land. The gentle gull, humble habitant of
the shores of our Great Salt Sea, has found
a shrine heretofore only in the grateful
memories of this valley’s pioneers and their
descendants. My heart swells with thanks-

[Column 2]
giving that we are now to preserve in sculp-
tured art the miraculous incident we all
know so well; and I now have the pleasure
and honor to unveil this beautiful monument
to the eye and admiration of grateful thous-
ands now living, and of untold thousands
yet to come.”
	Following the unveiling of the monument,
the sculptor, Mahonri M. Young, was intro-
duced and bowed his acknowledgment to the
applause with which he was greeted. Bishop
Nibley then invited all the pioneers of 1847-
48 to come forward and take seats of honor
near the stand. The Honorable W. W. Riter
gave a most interesting account of the hard-
ships experienced by the pioneers the first
two years. Mr. Riter’s remarks were as fol-
lows:
	Brethren and Friends: We have met on
this occasion to celebrate, in a modest way,
the unveiling of the monument of the Gull,
the bird that played so important a part in
the preservation of the lives of the Pioneers
of 1847 and 1848. It is fitting that the work-
manship, or art expression, portrayed in this
bird should be the handiwork of a grandson
of the great leader, Brigham Young, who led
these early pioneers into this then sterile and
forbidding country. I doubt if there are any
present to whom this event has a greater
significance than to me. I was only a boy
of 10 years when the event occurred, which
we now have met to commemorate. I well
remember the gloom, almost despair, that
fell upon us when the crickets came down
from the hills in such myriads that the
ground was nearly covered with them, and
attacked with voracious appetites the then
too scanty fields of grain, which had been
planted with toilsome hands. You will par-
don me if I give you some of my own re-
membrances in regard to this event, for they
are the ones most deeply imbedded in my
memory.
	My father had planted eight acres of
wheat up there in the Nineteenth ward, on
the ground immediately in front of Captain
Hooper’s old residence. It grew fairly well
until the crickets came, and then our glow-
ing hope of a crop was almost turned into
despair. My father had put in a crude dam
on the north branch of City Creek, near
where the Odeon now stands, and turned
the water to irrigate his wheat down an old
channel of the creek until it reached his field.
Besides the myriads of crickets which were
already devouring the tender plants, this
water brought down myriads of others that
had come off the hills, and failing to cross
the water (for they were a clumsy insect)
were washed down into his field. The ex-
tremity was so great he offered Robert
Pierce the contents of his whole field for
three barrels of flour, reckoning that these
three barrels of flour would feed his family
six months, and then we could die.
	These conditions were the lot of all the
pioneers then here. I have frequently
thought these events were a striking an-
alogue to those encountered by the Israel-
ites under Moses, when camped near the
shores of the Red Sea. The Egyptians were
on either side and behind, and the Red Sea
in front and death hovering over the scene,
when lo! God stretched forth his hand and
his people were saved. Death could have
seemed scarcely more imminent to those
early pioneers into the deserts of the Sinaitic
peninsula than to us, on the occasion I refer
to. As the Children of Israel, throughout
all their generations, looked back and ac-

[Column 3]
knowledged God as their Savior, in parting
the waters of the Red Sea, is it any wonder
that we, too, attribute to the mercies of God
the coming of the gulls, who devoured our
enemies, the crickets, and permitted a por-
tion of our crops to escape the absolutely
certain destruction they were undergoing?
	The gulls came and gorged themselves on
the crickets; once filled could have given but
little relief, for the number of crickets was
so great; but the gulls disgorged the masses
they had eaten and then continued the
process until the situation was saved.
	Brethren and friends, I witnessed this, and
relate it to you in all truth and soberness. My
remarks must be limited on this occasion for
there are others to speak; but let me here
express the hope that this monument may
be a reminder to those who come after us,
that the same God whose mercies have ever
hovered over his children in times of their
direct distress, still lives, and that he may
ever be relied upon for relief when all hu-
man succor fails.
	This recital would be incomplete if I did
not refer to a grand character then among
us in the person of Uncle John Smith,
patriarch, as he then was called—a brother
to the prophet’s father. He was then an
aged man. His courage and faith never
failed. My father, who was not sustained
by the faith many had, suffered extreme
distress of mind at the perilous conditions
surrounding us. Uncle John, seeing he was
an honest man, but lacking faith, buoyed
him up by prophetic words and promises of
relief. I well remember him saying on one
occasion, with considerable vehemence: "I
tell you, Brother Riter, all will come out
well.” These words were a great solace to
me, for young as I was, I shared the appre-
hension of disaster that my father did.
	How great the distress that seemed to
surely be upon us in case the crickets en-
tirely destroyed our crops, may better be
sensed when I tell you that already many
of the people had consumed the scanty sup-
ply of food they had brought across the
plains with them the year before, and were
then living on thistle roots, pig weed, and
segos; it was 1,200 miles to the nearest
food supply at St. Joseph, Missouri, and at
least a year must elapse before food could
be had from that quarter, even if we had
had the money to purchase it, which we had
not. To make matters worse, we knew that
President Young was returning here, fol-
lowed by others of our people, who would
have to be fed from our crops—but how
feed them, if we had no crops? Who can
picture the peril we were in, and, had our
crops been consumed, what would have
been our doom? The fate of the Donner
party would have been but a circumstance
compared with it. There were only 80 of
them, and there were 1,800 of us, to be aug-
mented by 2,500 more, when President
Young (who had returned the year before
to the Missouri river) should arrive with
the immigration of that year. Added to this,
the winter following was one of the coldest
known since our coming here. Can you
wonder that I say, I doubt if any are present
to whom this event has a greater signifi-
cance than to me?
	Some one might pertinently ask: What
has become of those crickets? They grad-
ually diminished in numbers from year to
year, and have now disappeared from Utah.
About twenty years’ ago I saw some in
Tooele valley, near Stockton, and about ten


years ago I saw a few at the mouth of Salt
River, in Wyoming. I believe they have
now entirely vanished.
	Our early legislators enacted into law a
measure protecting the gull, as an acknowl-
edgment that they had been divinely sent
to save us from destruction. On one occa-
sion one of our over-zealous brethern arrest-
ed a poor, hungry Indian for shooting one
of these birds, so great was our veneration
for them. But the Indians, on learning that
we had such great respect for them, soon
learned to respect them also, on our account,
and I never knew one molested after the
event named. 
	Now, as the dove is the sign and emblem
of peace and love, to us at least, let this gull
(pointing to the monument) be the sign of
relief—and mercy.
	In humble reverence let us bow our heads
and acknowledge the mercies of God in our
behalf in the event which the dedication
of this monument celebrates, and also pray
that we may ever live so as to be worthy
of his continuing favor.
	President Joseph F. Smith, in a most in-
teresting manner, related many incidents of
the early trials of the pioneers and read
from old journals the pages telling of the
ravages of the crickets and the almost utter
despair of the people as they saw their crops
being destroyed. He told of his own knowl-
edge of this event in a most forceful and
pathetic way, after which President Smith
offered a beautiful and touching dedicatory
prayer. After the ceremonies the throng of
people wandered around the grounds for
some time, studying with admiration the
pictured tablets of the monument. Alto-
gether the incident was one long to be re-
membered.
	The monument consists of a granite
pedestal supporting a granite column about
30 feet high, on the top of which is a large
granite ball and the birds. The birds are
done in bronze covered with gold leaf. On
the sides of the pedestal are bronze tablets
which give a picture account of the scenes
leading up to the coming of the gulls. One
shows the pioneers entering the valley, an-
other has a harvest scene, a third shows a
dejected family with the gulls flying among
them, while on the fourth is inscribed
“Erected in Grateful Remembrance of the
Mercy of God to the Mormon Pioneers.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFER-
			ENCE.
	The Semi-Annual Conference of the
General Relief Society was held in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall October 2 and 3, com- 
mencing Thursday, October 2, at 10 a. m.,
with President Emmeline B. Wells, presid-
ing.
	The session opened with singing, “How
Firm a Foundation,” by the Granite stake
choir and the congregation.
	Prayer by Sister Rebecca N. Nibley.
	Singing, “Come Thou Glorious Day of
Promise.”
	President Emmeline B. Wells gave the
address of welcome and greeting. She was
delighted to see so many assembled and
hoped the conference would be one of
power and influence. She felt that the Lord
has been merciful to the society in the past
year and has given us manifold blessings,
as a result of which great things have been
accomplished by the organization. Many

[Column 2]
improvements have been made at the cost
of great sacrifice, but the standard of the
work has been raised and our sisters have
been better educated in all that pertains to
Relief Society work. She admonished the
members to read the instructions of the
Prophet Joseph to the Relief Society which
were given on several occasions, and to
carry them out as nearly as possible.
	President Effie Ensign Merril, of Liberty
stake, responded to the address of welcome
in a few well chosen words. She felt highly
honored in so doing and expressed her ap-
preciation of the labors of the President and
the members of the General Board.
Sister Lizzie Thomas Edward sang a so-
prano solo, “More Love for Thee, O
Christ.”
	Reports of the Relief Societies of the fol-
lowing stakes were given as follows:
	Alpine stake, by Miss Amy Rosza, stake
secretary; South San Pete stake, by Mrs.
Jane Bench; Parowan stake, by Mrs. Julia
R. Lyman.
	Miss Joy Richards reported the work of
the newly established milk depot on the
West side. She was introduced by Mrs.
Alice M. Horne, who explained that the
Relief Society had seen fit to help the city
Board of Health in this good work by fur-
nishing a nurse in the person of Miss
Richards to assist at the depot.
	Miss Richards stated that the milk depot
or dispensary was established in July of this
year by the city Board of Health for the
purpose of furnishing pure milk at cost for
babes. There have been in attendance three
nurses; two hospital trained nurses fur-
nished by the city, and one Relief Society
nurse, trained in the Relief Society School
of nurses’ and furnished by the Woman’s
Relief Society. It has been the duty of
these nurses to visit homes and ascertain
when help was needed, also to give instruc-
tion on how to feed and care for babies.
	Pure milk was furnished at whatever
price people were able to pay and was given
free to those who were not able to pay
anything.
	In the two months of August and Sep-
tember 1,123 quarts of milk were received;
323 quarts were sold and 800 quarts were
given away. Forty babes were furnished
milk at the station and there was only one
death among them, this death occurring a
few hours after the first application for as-
sistance was made to the nurses. Three
hundred and twenty-eight calls at the depot
were made by mothers, and 1,382 home in-
quiry calls were made by the nurses. The
amount taken in for milk sold was $42.10, a
small amount compared to what was paid
out; but the knowledge of the great amount
of good done and the wonderful apprecia-
tion of those who were assisted, made the
recompense larger than could be counted in
dollars and cents.
	A beautiful organ solo was given by Miss
Edna Coray.
	Dr. Margaret C. Roberts addressed the
conference. She felt so overcome with joy
in contemplating the wonderful work being
done constantly by the Relief Society, that
it was hard to control her feelings on this
occasion. She was delighted to know that
the trained nurses and the Relief Society
nurse had worked so harmoniously in the
city health department; this is as it should
be. Dr. Roberts spoke of the Relief Society
Nurse school to open immediately after con-
ference and explained briefly the work.

[Column 3]
	Congregation sang, “The Spirit of God
like a fire is burning.”
	Closing prayer, Mrs. Julina L. Smith. 
AFTERNOON SESSION. 
	Singnig, “Come Let Us Anew.”
	Prayer by Dr. Romania B. Penrose.
	Singing, “Lord Thou Wilt Hear Me.”
	Mrs. Winnifred Brown addressed the as-
sembly, speaking on her experiences at the
Joseph Smith Memorial Cottage at South
Royalston, Vt. She felt it a great honor and
privilege to reign as queen over the home-
stead of the Prophet Joseph Smith. In the
cottage, which was erected over the exact
spot of the prophet’s home, peace, beauty,
and love reign supreme. The old original
gray hearthstone where the babe was
washed and dressed has been retained and
placed in the modern cottage, and above it
hangs the portrait of his mother Lucy Mack
Smith, done in oil. This hearthstone is a
sacred and hallowed spot and the picture
above it, is a source of comfort and inspira-
tion to all who behold it. During the last
year 15,000 people have been received at
the Memorial Cottage.
	Tenor solo, “In God’s Acre,” was given
by Joseph Paul.
	Sister Jeanette A. Hyde gave an address
on “Genealogy.” She called attention to
the fact that the Prophet Joseph urged the
Saints to be energetic in saving souls and in
carrying out this instruction, we must not
forget our dead. We must collect and com-
plete our family records, and go into the
temples and have ordinances performed for
those who did not have the privilege to do
this for themselves. Genealogical records
have been considered of very great impor-
tance in all times. We will remember that
Lehi was sent back to Jerusalem to obtain
the records of his people, as well as the laws
and commandments of Moses. Every Latter-
day Saint should read and study sections
127 and 128 of the Doc. and Cov. Sister
Hyde announced that a series of lessons in
genealogy will be given during the April,
1914, conference, and that each stake will
be expected to send a delegate to take up
the work, details of which will be given at
the officers’ meeting on Tuesday.
	Mrs. Rebecca N. Nibley reported that the
Relief Society Home for Women is com-
pleted and is open for women and girls who
are out of employment and are in need of
temporary quarters. A reasonable fee will
be charged for lodging, as it is the desire
of the Board to have the Home self-support-
ing.
	Mrs. Agness Olsen Thomas gave a vocal
solo, “O Rest in the Lord.”
	Counselor Julina L. Smith addressed the
conference. She had been greatly impressed
with the remarks of Mrs. Brown and re-
ferred very feelingly to the Prophet’s
mother who she said lost five grown sons
and still retained her faith and courage and
cheerfulness. The motto of this mother was
“O Lord Thy will not mine be done.” The
speaker referred to the new building about
to be erected by the Church, and was pleased
to say that a portion of it would be set apart
for the use of the Genealogical Society,
where its books and records may be safely
kept. She urged the sisters to keep up their
interest in genealogy and to urge others to
do everything possible to study the great
and glorious work.
	Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings spoke of the


[Column 1]
unveiling of the Sea Gull Monument. She
was carried back to early days in Utah when
there were many wonderful demonstrations
of God’s goodness to His people.
	Counselor Clarissa S. Williams felt over-
joyed in listening to the report of the work
of Mr. and Mrs. Brown at the Memorial
Cottage. Their mission is one of impor-
tance and they are filling it with
credit to themselves and to the Church.
	The speaker regretted very much that the
Boston School of Oratory had refused ad-
mission to such a capable woman as Mrs.
Brown simply because she is a Latter-day
Saint, and hoped that such prejudice would
soon be a thing of the past.
	The Relief Society members were urged
to be hospitable, and to be neighborly, to call
at the homes of all people, and to teach
and preach the Gospel whenever oppor
tunity for so doing is presented.
	The session closed with singing, “Praise
to the Man.”
	Closing prayer was offered by Sister
Edna May Davis.
					AMY B. LYMAN,
							Secretary.

	Friday Oct. 3, Second day.
	The morning session opened with sing-
ing, “Come, come, ye Saints.” 
	Prayer was offered by Miss Sarah Mc-
Lelland.
	Singing, “Softly beams the sacred dawn-
ing.”
	Miss Gertrude McCheyne, of the Agricul-
tural College of Utah, began her talk on
“The School Luncheon Box.” She empha-
sized the need of system in the home man-
agement, with its associate virtue, cleanli-
ness. She touched upon the selection and
preparation of school luncheon, urging
mothers to teach daughters to prepare their 
own boxes both for the training it gave to
the girl and for the relief it would afford the
busy mother. President Joseph F. Smith,
accompanied by Senator Reed Smoot, now
entered the hall and Miss McCheyne courte-
ously sat down, that the audience might
hear the distinguished visitors. Her talk
was finished in the afternoon session.
	President Ballard of the Northwestern
States Mission sang, “I know that my Re-
deemer lives.”
	President Joseph F. Smith expressed his
pleasure at meeting with the Relief Society,
and commented vigorously on the initial
purpose of its existence, and its divine
origin; he hoped that nothing would ever
occur to change its name or to interefere
with its original functions. It had been or-
ganized by revelation given to the Prophet
Joseph Smith, and the name sufficiently in-
dicates its purpose and scope. Its principal
object was to minister to the needs of the
Saints, and at the same time to have a care
for the needy stranger within our gates.
	President Smith said that he wanted the
members of the General Board of this So-
ciety to set such examples when they went
out into the homes of the Saints as an angel
would do, if such were to enter our homes.
If they did not do this and the failure was
reported to his office, the First Presidency
would see to it that others would come who
would set proper examples. He urged upon
the Board and officers generally the neces-
sity of studying the principles of the Gospel,
that they might be ready to teach the Truth

[Column 2] 
to others. We should seek to first live the
Gospel ourselves and then go out and teach
it to others. Those who go out to teach
should go in the spirit of their calling and
not spend the time in idle gossip or in talk
on the happenings of the day. You sisters
should minister such temporal and spiritual
assistance as may be needed in the homes
where you visit. He related an instance of
a visit to a distant stake where the sisters
of the Relief Society had cared for sick
families in the town. President Smith
wanted the sisters in office to be big and
broad-minded, so that personal differences
might not creep into their official acts. There
is no room for petty jealousies and envyings
among Saints; be unselfish and loyal to
truth and righteousness. He himself was
loyal to his friends, to President Lyman
who was present, as also to Elder Smoot,
whom he had known since he was born. He
would not consider any man his friend who
sought to injure either of these brethren.
He had watched the public career of Sen-
ator Smoot and knew him to be upright,
clean, just and true to every trust. And his
friends would be the friends of Senator
Smoot. He had no time nor disposition to
criticize either civil or religious authorities.
He was loyal to the city governing officers,
to the governor of the state, and to our
congressional delegation. Moreover, he was
loyal to our national administration, for
only so could good men have the best
chance to do their work unhindered. When
men were doing the best they could, Latter-
day Saints would serve themselves by hold-
ing up their hands. President Smith then
spoke solemnly on the Word of Wisdom,
and its strict observance. He urged the
sisters to look after the aged, to succor the
orphan, and to minister in the spirit of
Christ to all who stood in need of assist-
ance. He closed with a powerful testimony
to the character of President Emmeline B.
Wells, saying that he knew her worth and
that she had been placed in her present ex-
alted position because of her long experi-
ence and her unquestioned loyalty to the
Gospel of Jesus Christ. She had received
that testimony in her youth and it was that
inner testimony of the Spirit, which was the
only sure guide for the spirit of man upon
this earth. It takes of the things of the
Father and makes them known unto the
children of men.
	Mrs. Lizzie Thomas-Edward sang the
“Angel’s Serenade,” with a violin accom-
paniment by Prof. George E. Skelton.
	Senator Reed Smoot spoke feelingly of
his mother’s holy teachings and of his high
regard for women and their labors in life.
He spoke of his pride in the youth of this
Church, and of his own loyalty to its teach-
ings. He said he had never lost anything
by proclaiming his religion, nor had he
failed in any test set up by that standard.
He spoke of the great good accomplished
by women of this Church when they at-
tended the Eastern conventions, and of the
undying friendship such associations had
engendered between our women and the
prominent women of the world. His best
friends among the noted women of the
world had been such women as Belva A.
Lockwood, J. Ellen Foster, Clara Barton,
Susan B. Anthony and others who were not
only friends to this people but to all honest
people, and whose labors in behalf of their
sex had done far more good than had ever
been accomplished by the foolish suffra-

[Column 3] 
gettes of England. He referred in glowing
terms to President Emmeline B. Wells and
her influence amongst these women, and
said that she was a wonderful woman. He
had scarcely hoped that she could survive
her last illness while recently in Provo, but
here she was just as vigorous and capable as
ever. She owed her long life and the power
to rise above such sore afflictions to her in-
domitable self-will and her unbounded faith.
Such women as she are needed amongst
our own people, as amongst the women of
the world. Nearly all noted women knew
Mrs. Wells and always asked after her. He
hoped the association with the eastern
women in their mammoth conventions
would not be given up but continued with
unabated vigor, for the educational value
was incomparable.
	Miss Edna Dwyer sang, “There comes a
time,” followed by the Doxology, and the
benediction was pronounced by President
Francis M. Lyman.
	The afternoon session was opened by
singing, “Let us pray, gladly pray.” Prayer
was offered by Sister Susa Young Gates.
Singing, “On the mountain tops appearing.”
	President Emmeline B. Wells introduced
Dr. Leslie Woodruff Snow as the son of
President Lorenzo Snow and the grandson
of President Wilford Woodruff. Dr. Snow
gave a very dear talk on the care of the
eyes, the need of proper light, of cleanli-
ness, and of proper glasses being worn in
cases of weak or myoptic eyes. He gave
some excellent directions for simple home
remedies for avoidance of common mistakes
and urged the parents to look well after the
precious eyesight of their children.
	A violin solo by Willard Weihe, accom-
panied on the organ by Prof. J. J. Mc-
Clellan, was beautifully rendered and
brought forth a rising vote of thanks. After
which Miss McCheyne completed her ex-
cellent talk on the “School Luncheon Box,”
bringing many little suggestions of value to
home keepers.
	A charming organ solo by our own or-
ganist, Miss Edna Coray, was much appre-
ciated, and then Prof. Maud May Babcock
told of the new “Home” for girl wage-
earners in the Ensign stake of Zion. She
reported that they were in need of thirty-
two quilts and invited the mothers to come
to their assistance.
	President Emmeline B. Wells gave a spir-
ited closing talk, referring to the times in
Kirtland when Mother Whitney was
hostess to the Prophet Joseph Smith when
he was in that city. How she would hush
her cradle song to listen to the murmured
tones of that inspired voice as the Prophet
dictated his revelations to his scribe on the
floor above her. She said we had had a re-
markable conference and she hoped the sis-
ters would take the spirit of it home to their
stakes and wards. She urged them to be
kind to those who were blind or lacking in
any of their faculties, for the blessings of
God would rest upon them inasmuch as they
ministered to such unfortunates. She in-
voked the blessing of God upon all present
and all those engaged in Relief Society
work in all the world.
	Alexander Crawford sang “One sweetly
solemn thought,” and the congregation sang
“Redeemer of Israel.” Sister Ida Smoot
Dusenberry pronounced the final benedic-
tion of the-Conference.
					SUSA Y. GATES, 
							Cor. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		UINTAH STAKE. 
	The seventh annual and fifty-ninth quar-
terly conference of the Relief Society of
Uintah stake was held in the Stake Taber-
nacle July 15, 1913. President Nancy A.
Colton presiding, with Counselor Mary H.
Stringham in charge.
	Seated on the stand were all the officers
and members of the stake board, President
Ernest Eaton, Patriarch Nelson Merkley,
Elders John N. Davis, Thomas Bingham,
Ashley Bartlett, James Jones, and Bishop
Archie Richardson. President Emmeline B.
Wells and Elizabeth McCune of the General 
Board were the visitors from Salt Lake.
	After the opening exercises and rolll call
President Nancy A. Colton made an address
of welcome; she was pleased to see so many
present and more than pleased that we had
with us President Emmeline B. Wells. She
introduced President Wells, also Elizabeth
McCune, of the General Board.
	Mrs. Fannie E. Stewart gave a talk on
“Power of Personal Influence.”
	Mrs. Elizabeth McCune gave an interest-
ing talk of her pioneer experiences; said the
development of pioneer life is a priceless
boon to all of us, only remember this, keep
your ideals high and exercise freely the op-
portunities which come to pioneer women in
Relief Society callings. She advised the Re-
lief Society teachers in regard to their du-
ties.
	President Emmeline B. Wells was pleased
in visiting the far distant stake of Uintah;
spoke some of her travels in getting
to Vernal, but said “I have a desire to visit
all the stakes from Canada to Mexico;” she
related instances of her early life in the
Church; spoke of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
Speaking most feelingly of some of the noble
women of the past, gave quite a history of
the early work of the Relief Society. 
	Mrs. Mary H. Stringham thought we had
been blessed this morning by having the 
presence of President Wells and Sister Mc-
Cune; said the reason President Wells was
so young was that she has only had 21 birth-
days, although she is 85 years old.
	The conference continued in the after-
noon, with a very large attendance.
	President Emmeline B. Wells was the first
speaker. She thought in coming here, what
wonderful things men can do, and women,
too; said she would like to know how many
buildings the Relief Societies have helped
to build and the kind of buildings; she spoke
of the storing of grain; said President Brig-
ham Young gave this, as a mission to the
women of the Church. Spoke of marriage
for eternity, and advised parents to teach
their boys and girls the necessity of going
to the Temple to get married.
	President Don B. Colton had listened with
interest to what had been said; spoke of
brethren not taking as much interest in Re-
lief Society work as they should; referred to


[Column 1]
the good the Relief Society sisters were do-
ing in this stake in regard to taking care of
the sick, gave a strong testimony to the
Gospel of Jesus Christ.
	Mrs. Elizabeth McCune spoke of the Na-
tional Educational convention, which had
been held in Salt Lake City; thought much
good had been done by their meetings.
There is another item we want to speak
about. Are we doing our duty toward our
dead? There are temples built where we
can work for the salvation of the dead;
spoke of the genealogical work that was be-
ing accomplished through the Relief So-
ciety, and when you are ready for the work
an instructor will be sent to you.
	President Emmeline B. Wells spoke of the
time when she embraced the Gospel; spoke
of a miracle which happened to a young girl,
who had been lame for years, and had been
restored to health when she was baptized;
spoke of her personal acquaintance with the
Prophet Joseph Smith; related most inter-
esting experiences concerning the Prophets
Joseph Smith and Brigham Young, and the
early days of the Church.
	Elder Harley Morley spoke of when the
Relief Society was organized; said he knew
the Prophet Joseph Smith, having lived with
him for three years. He knew he was a
great and mighty man and accomplished a
great work.
	Mrs. Annie K. Bartlett, in behalf of the
stake board, thanked all for helping to make
this conference a success.
	After singing and benediction the confer-
ence adjourned.
	During the two sessions beautiful music
was rendered by the choir and Mr. Ashley
Bartlett, Miss Melvina Duke and a number
of little girls from Maeser ward, also a reci-
tation by Mary Merkley.
	An officers’ meeting was held for the pur-
pose of answering questions pertaining to
the Relief Society work.
		PHEBE A. MERKLEY, Secretary.

		SAN LUIS STAKE.
	The conference of the San Luis Stake
Relief Society was held in the Sanford
Ward meeting house, Sanford, Colo., Aug.
11, 1913, commencing at 10 a. m. The morn-
ing session was stake and ward officers’
meeting, President Johanna M. Harrison
residing. Roll call showed officers present,
24. Minutes of stake and ward officers’
meeting held Aug. 16, 1912, were read.
President Johanna M. Harrison extended a
loving and tender greeting to those assem-
bled; felt they should be free in reporting
and asking questions; considered it a great
and grand honor to have our General Presi-
dent, Emmeline B. Wells, present at our
conference. 
	President Emmeline B. Wells felt per-
fectly delighted to meet with the Relief So-
ciety sisters of this stake; spoke of the days
when the Saints lived in Nauvoo; related
the organization of the Relief Society by the
Prophet Joseph Smith, with 18 members,
and at present the membership is 45,000;
spoke of the reports that will be expected
from the stakes at Relief Society conference
when held in Salt Lake City, Oct. 2, 1913.
	Bishop James P. Jensen of the Sanford
ward was delighted with the beautiful re-
marks of our dear President Wells, the
work of the Relief Society is progressing.

[Column 2]
	Singing, “How firm a foundation.”
	Prayer by Sister Mary Holman.
	During the noon hour an excellent lunch
was furnished and served by the Sanford
Ward Relief Society, which was enjoyed
very much by all.

		AFTERNOON SESSION.
	At 2 p. m. the conference was resumed
by the choir singing, “Lord wilt Thou hear
me when I pray.” Prayer by Brother
Ephraim Coombs. Singing by the Manassa
Relief Society.
	Minutes of Relief Society Stake Confer-
ence held at Manassa Aug. 6, 1912, were
read. Misses D. A. Molerup of Salt Lake
City and Mary Thompson of Idaho, two
lady missionaries in the Western States
Mission and at present located at Alamosa,
Colo., reported briefly their experiences in
the mission field.
	Stake President Erastus S. Christensen
felt to appreciate the opportunity of listen-
ing to two lady missionaries report ther
labors. Spoke of the prophecies of, old, how
they are being fulfilled; how the Gospel is
being spread, also dwelt upon the organiza-
tion; felt indeed pleased for the fact of hav-
ing our great and beloved Sister Wells in
our midst. We were then favored with a
song by Sister Leah Block. President Wells
spoke of the history of the Relief Society;
gave some veiy beautiful instructions to
parents in regard to their childrren, see that
they live worthy of being married in the
Temple. Related a wonderful testimony
that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God,
said she was personally acquainted with him,
remembered seeing the Prophet going to
prison.
	William O. Crowther wished to urge the
work of the Relief Society, also felt to ap-
preciate the splendid Relief Society choir.
	President Harrison felt pleased with our
conference, wished to thank our choir for
furnishing such lovely singing; gave notice
that President Emmeline B. Wells will hold
meeting at Manassa tomorrow at 2 p. m.;
invited all to try and be present.
	Closed our conference by singing “Be it
my only wisdom.”
	Benediction by Bishop Christe Jensen.

	A special session of Relief Society Con-
ference was called for President Emmeline
B. Wells held in Manassa, Colo., in the stake
house, Aug. 12, 1913, President Johanna M.
Harrison presiding.
	Song, “High on the mountain top.”
Prayer by Brother Stephan A. Smith. Sing-
ing, “Guide us O thou great Jehovah.”
	President Harrison made a few opening
remarks, expressed her appreciation in be-
ing blessed with the pleasure of having with
us our beloved President Wells.
	Sister Margaret J. Haskell spoke of her

[Column 3]
acquaintance with Sister Wells for 65 years;
this dear sister has been engaged in this
great and grand work for a great many
years.
	Sister Hannah D. Dalton felt to appre-
ciate the privilege of expressing her appre-
ciation of being blessed with having our be-
loved President Wells with us.
	The Manassa Primary Association sang
a song.
	Brother John A. Smith reported briefly,
his labors as a missionary in the Eastern
States Mission.
	We were then favored with singing by
Sister Artie Rogers.
	President Wells addressed the meeting at
some length; she felt to encourage love and
charity; learn to be kind and good to the
old, also to the poor who are afflicted, see
to it that they are made happy. Guard our
children that they may not go astray; honor
and obey the priesthood. She related some
of her early experiences in the Church, and
bore her testimony that Joseph Smith and
Brigham Young were indeed Prophets of
God.
	Meeting, closed by singing the Doxology.
Prayer by Sister Lena H. Heiselt.  
				BERNECIA ROGERS,
							Stake Sec.


CORRESPONDENCE.
	EDITOR WOMAN’S EXPONENT: I am an
old man over four score, nothing of much
use left but my good memory and this may
fail me soon, so I have concluded to write
some of my early remembrances.
	In the summer of 1857 I happened to be
at Green River Ferry. Isaac Bullock with
his famly were there also. Brother Bullock
had charge of the ferry.
	There were many Shoshone Indians in
the vicinity. They were not savage when
sober, but when drunk were like all Indians,
dangerous. No one expected trouble as
liquor was not sold about the ferry. Brother
Bullock had a friendly acquaintance with
these Indians, could speak their language,
and having done considerable missionary
work among them had quite an influence
over them- He was a cool, level-headed
man, full of faith; still he knew how reck-
less whisky made them. We were visited
by a crowd of drunken Indians who rushed
into the house. He told his family to keep
cool and to show neither fear or excitement
but do as they were directed and they would
not be hurt. He also requested those of us,
his friends, to make no move but to sit still.
This was pretty hard to do at times. I saw
one man place his hand on his gun several
times. Brother Bullock told the women to
start in making biscuits and coffee. This 
they did with due diligence. The only sal-
vation seemed to be in keeping the Indians
eating biscuits and drinking coffee.
	I have had many experiences with Indians
but this exceeded anything I had yet seen. 
Whilst one crowd was filling up another ten
or twenty would crowd into the house de-
manding money, pointing their weapons at
Brother Bullock, some striking at him with
tomahawks and others even punching him
with their knives until they cut his clothes.
I have always remembered that one struck
hard enough to cause blood to stain his
breast; he never flinched but kept talking
to them in a friendly way. Some of the
Indians were sober and when the drunken
Indians became too aggressive they would 
grab them around their bodies and put them
out of the house. How long this kept up
I do not remember, but my impression is
some two or three hours.
	I can well remember, although this oc-
curred fifty-five years past, seeing a good
many batches of biscuits taken out of the
oven, but I have no remembrance of hearing
either of the sisters speak in a loud or ex-
cited voice. I did not so much wonder at
Sister Electa’s coolness as she was known
as a strong-minded woman before her mar-
riage, but I did admire the fortitude of
Sister Emma, the younger of the two.
	I sat where I could see all that was going
on as I had great faith in Brother Bullock
and believed that he would pull through,
which he did without weakening or making
any concession whatever. I have never met


ether of these parties since to speak of the
occurrence, but I have often thought when
reading accounts descriptive of early days,
well that's pretty good, but if some good
writer could tell about Brother Bullock and
his brave family, it would beat that.
DANIEL W. JONES,
Author "Forty Years Among the Indians."


RESOLUTIONS OF RELIEF SOCIETY.
	Passed at Officers’ meeting held October
7, 1913.
	Inasmuch as the sisters of the Relief So-
ciety have received special instructions from
our Prophet, Seer, and Revelator during the
Conference which has just closed, we desire
to voice our acceptance of his teachings, 
both in our own Conference and in the Gen-
eral Conference on the following points,
viz.:
	Be it resolved, That we do declare it our
purpose to keep intact the original name and
initial spirit and purpose of this great or-
ganization, holding fast to the inspired
teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith
when he revealed the plan by which women
were to be empowered through the calling
of the priesthood to be grouped into suitable
organizations for the purpose of ministering
to the sick, assisting the needy, comforting
the aged, warning the unwary, and succor-
ing the orphans,
	We, as General Officers, Stake Officers,
and Ward Officers, of this Relief Society
will endeavor to set an example, in the mod-
esty of our clothing, the restraint of our
speech, and in the observance of the laws
and commandments of God which shall fit
us to be examplars in the midst of the
daughters of Zion.
	We will study the principles of the Gos-
pel, with all diligence, to enable us to impart
of our knowledge to those who are under
our charge both to our families, to the mem-
bers of our Society, and to the ones who may
be ignorant or unwaary, concerning the
principles of life and Truth. We will seek
first to live the Gospel ourselves, and then be
ready to go out and teach it.
	We will seek to restrain our conversation,
avoiding light chatter, idle gossip, and above
all, we will refrain from criticising our asso-
ciates, the chosen authorities of this Church
from the least to the greatest. We will sus-
tain our civic authorities, while such men
are honest and doing their duty to the full
extent. Our loyalty is engaged not only to
support our Church officials, but our city,
state, and national representatives. We seek
to prove our claim to the title of Latter-day
Saint by our devotion to these principles of
loyalty and righteousness. We shall culti-
vate the spirit of broad-mindedness, setting
aside our own personal desires and ambi-
tions, that we may the more fully enter into
the true spirit of this great charitable organ-
ization.
	We will clothe ourselves modestly and in
a way that shall merit approval from our
brethren, ourselves, and the angels of God;
moreover, we shall teach this principle of
modesty to our children, and our grand-
children after us.
	We again commit ourselves to the ob-
servance of the Word of Wisdom. The
things that are forbidden in that Revelation
shall find no place in our homes nor on our
tables. Nor shall they be offered in our
public gatherings.
	These are the principles for which this
Society has stood for nearly seventy years;
but we give them public expression in this
manner in order to emphasize the teachings
of President Joseph F. Smith, and we call
upon all members of this organization to
join with us in a renewal of effort to the
more strict observance of these and other
principles of the Gospel, until we shall more
nearly approach the perfect conditions ex-

[Column 3]
pressed by our beloved President when he
said, “The sisters must go into the homes of
the people setting such an example as an
angel might, if one came to them.” To this 
end we pray.
(Signed)		CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS,
			JULIA P. M. FARNSWORTH,
			CARRIE S. THOMAS,
			SARAH J. McLELLAND,
			ALICE M. HORNE.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	As the suffrage cause steadily advances
in America without serious and alarming
upheavals and terrorizing incidents, the
American woman is too prone to criticize
and condemn the English militants. One
seeks to gain by persuasion and reason what
the other seeks by force, and yet when con-
ditions and facts are thoroughly considered,
the cause and effect of the militants well
may be the power to hasten the work of
the suffrage cause. When the militants re-
ceive the attention and best thought of great
writers and publishers like Ida Kenton and
Israel Zangwill, in their splendid articles in
the Century and Metropolitan magazines,
the severe judges of the English suffragette
will begin to learn that there is an economic
and valuable problem in the world’s history
yet to solve.


THIRTY-FOURTH
ANNUAL ANNOUNCEMENT
		OF
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp’s
SCHOOL OF NURSING
	AND OBSTETRICS
Beginning October 6, 1913.
	Hours 9 to 12 a.m.
For full particulars communicate with
	ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.,
713 Second Avenue, Salt Lake City, Utah

R K. THOMAS CO.,	67-69 MAIN STREET,
					SALT LAKE CITY.
The most becoming Styles in Ladies’
	Suits, Coats, Dresses, Skirts, and
	Waists at Popular Prices.
THE STORE WHERE YOU CAN FEEL AT HOME


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Organ of the Latter-day Saints' Woman's Relief Society.

Vol. 41. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER, 1913 No. 12.


CONTENTS.
Joseph—Seer, Revelator, Prophet..................
.......................................Annie Wells Cannon	81
The Angel Moroni’s Prophecy....................... 
................................................Lydia D. Alder	83
Aunt Betsy’s Legacy......Annie Wells Cannon	85
Motherhood....................Mrs. Georgia Hatch	87
Industry ..........................................................	87
Relief Society Reports:
	Nebo Stake.............................................	88
Editorial:
	The Relief Society Outline.....................	84
	The National Council.............................	84
	National Suffrage Association................	84
Notes...........................................................83,	86
Poetry:
	The Gift Divine............Maud Baggarley	81
	The Star of Bethlehem....Lydia D. Alder	88


THE GIFT DIVINE.
TO MARY.
By Maud Baggarley.
And thou wouldst write, dear child?
O, say not so!
For thou must know
And feel, and suffer
E'er the words thy pen
A grace to save, shall give to men,
And thou beside an open grave must wait;
And thou must tarry too,
Without the close shut gate,
That bars thee from some joy
Thy soul doth crave,
Perchance thy heart shall break!
But this I say again,
Full measure shall ye have of pain!
And sorrow too shall scar thy heart;
For these are part;
And parcel of the gift divine.
Then walk the common way of life,
Unheard, unknown,
And sing thy little song of love
In joyful under-tone
For God will see;
And all shall be well with thine and thee.
But if the gift were given you at birth,
Or e'er thou camest to this earth
Fare forth, with spirit bold
And keep thy vision undefiled;
And sing high songs of hope and cheer;
And do not cry aloud at loss or pain
But count them gain!
And laugh;
And priestess be of One Most High;
And guard well the sacred fire
That unto thee is given
It shall engender pure desire;
And light men back to Heaven.


[Column 1]
JOSEPH—SEER, REVELATOR, PROPHET
	To the Latter-day Saint, no figure save
that of the Master himself, stands out with
such clearness and perfection as that of
Joseph Smith the Prophet. 
	Like most, if not all of the prophets of
old, his mission was placed upon him when
he was still a boy. The advent of the dif-
ferent prophets has seemed to be called for
by the necessity of the age, to divert the
thoughts of mankind from evil and dark-
ness into spiritual light, to turn the turbu-
lent waters stirred by the adversary again
to the peace and calm of God. 
	Joseph, son of Jacob, when a child, saw
in dreams his future power and greatness,
and with the guilelessness of youth related
these dreams to his father and brothers.
Joseph’s comeliness and beauty, his gentle-
ness and spiritual nature, which appealed so

[Column 2]

[picture of Joseph Smith]

strongly to his father’s affections, had al-
ready created feelings of jealousy and envy
in his brothers’ hearts, and when, aided by
his natural gifts, he assumed to declare his
future as seen in his dreams their envy
knew no bounds, and he was sold by them
into Egypt, which unknowingly hastened
the very fulfilment of his dreams. That the
power and gift of God was with him, even
as a child, is evident. 
	Joseph, the latter-day prophet, had
dreams and interpretations thereof, and
visions, and revelations, when only a child,
and, like Joseph of old, related them to his
father’s household, most of whom believed
and credited what he said. Like Joseph,
also, he was comely, straight and beautiful
to look upon; his soul shone in his coun-
tenance and his ways were gentle. 
	Samuel, also, was a mere lad when the
gift of prophecy came upon him. He
had been reared from infancy in the ser-
vice of God by a religious mother. His
early duties had been rather to serve than
to dictate, and yet when the occasion came,
though still a youth, his mighty power was
manifest and we read how he predicted to
Eli the fall of his home because of the wick-

[Column 3]
edness of his sons. In later life he became
a judge and great prophet in Israel. 
	Joseph Smith was reared by a religious
and devout mother, who never doubted the
divine mission of her son when he related
to her his marvelous experiences. Like
Samuel he became a prophet who brought
about great reforms, warned the wicked,
and taught most wondrous truths. 
	Daniel, another of the great prophets,
manifested spiritual gifts when a youth. He
foresaw and foretold the destiny of nations
and to him alone was made plain the writ-
ing on the wall. To him also was given
the interpretation of dreams. Like others
of the prophets he received divine protec-
tion so that no one could do him bodily
harm until his mission was ended. 
	Joseph Smith had like gifts and power. 
Like Daniel, he was many times miracu-
lously saved from bodily injury and possi-
ble death. He also foretold the destiny of
nations and warned the people of that most
terrible of strifes—the Civil war.
	David first attracted attention as a shep-
herd boy, and even then his prowess, his
agility, his strength and more than all these
physical qualities, his lofty spirit, made him


[Column 1] 
the superior of all his house. As a great
ruler and warrior, he is admired; as a
prophet and a poet he is loved. “In the
whole realm of lyric poetry” there is noth-
ing that approaches the songs of David,
and the tenderness and pathos of these
songs if there had been nothing else, would
have immortalized his name.
	Joseph Smith, too, was athletic, straight
and powerful in build, he could throw the
strongest in a wrestling match, yet he
never assumed to use his physical strength
for any purpose other than playful exer-
cise. He never attained political power
yet no king was more beloved nor revered
by his subjects than the later-day prophet
by his followers. His words of admoni-
tion, wisdom, prophecy, praise and glorifi-
cation of the Most High, like the songs of
David, vibrate the heart strings and will
echo down through the generations of
time.
	So all along the line of prophets are the
same attributes noticeable and much the
same of adventure and experience. In his
later years, Joseph, while continuing his
prophetic teachings, had that tender mourn-
fulness and sublime resignation which have
always marked the character of the mar-
tyrs. Though hated, derided, persecuted,
even unto death, there was never a sign of
weakness nor retraction in the true proph-
ets, for a power not of earth sustained
them.
	It was when Joseph was a lad of four-
teen that he went with troubled spirit into
the woods and prayed the Lord to show
him the right way; and it was in answer
to this prayer that he received his first
vision. From that time until his martyr-
dom, at the age of thirty-nine, were re-
vealed through him mighty and everlasting
truths to lead those who would believe to
eternal happiness. Of himself he said: “I
am a rough stone. The sound of the ham-
mer and chisel was never heard on me until
the Lord took me in hand. I desire the
learning and wisdom of heaven alone.”
Yet what a testimony to the world is given
in the wondrous things revealed by this 
humble, uneducated man—uneducated, as
he says, save by the power of God!
Through him the gospel of Christ was
brought again to the earth—the priesthood
re-established.
	The great progress in the status of
woman which is now so marked was fore-
told by Joseph, when he organized the
women into the Relief Society. A “School
of the Prophets” for religious teaching was
organized in Kirtland. The gathering of the
pure in heart from among the nations of the
earth that Zion might be built and her light
shine over all the world, was inaugurated.
The stranger, noting the unanimity and har-
mony that existed among the people, asked
the question of the Prophet, ‘How do you
govern these people?” The reply was, “I
teach them correct principles and they gov-
ern themselves.” He revealed the Word of
Wisdom, teaching mankind the necessity of
pure lives that death and disease may be
stayed; the thinkers of today who are striv-
ing most to assist men to care for life ad-
vance the same ideas.
	He revealed the great and glorious work
of baptism for the dead, thus fulfilling the
prophecies that “the hearts of the children
shall turn to their fathers.” In a word, dur-
ing the short period of twenty-four years
marvelous and remarkable truth’s were

[Column 2] 
given to the people concerning the things of
God which had furnished food for thought
and study for all the years following his
death. We are only now developing his
thoughts and trying to understand and com-
prehend his marvelous life and teachings.
The impress he has made upon this people
makes all Latter-day Saints feel as though
he was a part of them. How, then, must
those feel who knew and associated with
him in life! Their testimony is that he
was different from other men, so that those
who had never seen him before could dis-
tinguish him in a crowd; could feel the
magnetism of his presence, would rather be
a silent onlooker when he was near than
participate in any kind of pleasure. These
are testimonies of his possesion of some
power and influence more than natural.
	Let the Saints forever retain in their
hearts a reverence and love for so sublime
a character. Perhaps no words better por-
tray the man than the following from the
pen of President George Q. Cannon:
	“He had been a humble farmer lad—Di-
vine authority sat so becomingly upon him
that men looked at him with reverent awe.
He had been unlearned in the great things
of art and science—he walked with God un-
til human knowledge was to his eyes an
open book, and celestial light beamed
through his mind. His lofty soul com-
prehended the grandeur of his mission upon
earth; and with divine fortitude he fulfilled
the destiny which God had ordained for him
before he was.”
				ANNIE W. CANNON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE ANGEL MORONI'S PROPHECY.
	“Your name shall be had for good and
evil all over the world.” Amidst the warm-
est felicitations, and most enthusiastic ap-
plausc of the thousands assembled in the
large Philharmonic hall, the Quinquennial
Congress in Berlin had adjourned. The
official and grandest social function of that
great event took place on the evening of the
same day. The city council had issued six
hundred invitations, and voted ten thousand
marks for the banquet. The guests were
the representatives of all lands, and included
the speakers of the Congress, the German
Council of Women, the several German
committees of the Congress, and the city
officials of Berlin.
	About 8 o’clock, hundreds of carriages
deposited the guests at the grand entrance
of the municipal building.
	At the foot of the wide, white marble
stairway, with its bright crimson carpet, a
liveried servant stood on either side to re-
ceive the guests’ cards of invitation.
	The upper hall was gay with flags, ban-
ners and bunting; the air laden with strains
of dreamy music, and the perfume of
flowers. The conservatory was bewilder-
ingly beautiful under the hanging colors
of the electric display, permeating the foamy
water of the fountain which falls in cas-
cades on plants and flowers. The sound of
many voices mingled with the band’s witch-
ing strains as each guest was received, or
friends met and greeted each other.
	Precisely at 8 o’clock—the Germans are
proverbially punctual—the massive doors of
the banquet hall were thrown open, and the
merry throng, entered. A band stationed in
the upper gallery played glad strains of wel-

[Column 2]
come. In the main hall a number of long
tables, exquisitely adorned with flowers,
glistening with glass and abounding with
delicacies, presented an inviting appearance.
The coat of arms of Berlin—a brown bea[-]
about six inches in height, with silken sash,
the German colors, holding with his staff the
guests’ color roses, was placed at each plate.
The effect was strange and unique.
	At a table on the right were seated the
presiding officers of the Congress and city.
The Countess of Aberdeen, the newly elect-
ed president, was of distinguished appear-
ance; the gems in her coronet glistened and
changed color at her every movement. Near
her was our own loved Mrs. May Wright
Sewall, the retiring president, with her
splendid coronet of silvery white hair.
	The assemblage, the music, the sculpture,
the paintings; the feast of reason and the
flow of soul were entrancing. Ten o’clock
found us again in the reception hall.
	While standing here, by the fountain, its
rays now green or amber, crimson or gold,
I found by my side my little German friend,
who sat by me at the table, and who there
interpreted for me, the German speeches.
	“O, I am so glad to meet you again; will
you remain here, while I go for my niece,
she is so anxious to meet a ‘Mormon’?” She
returned soon with a rather diminutive,
brown-eyed, young lady, who asked me
about “your boy prophet,” and why we went
to live in a mountainous desert. Naturally
the answer was an account of the angel’s
visit to the boy Joseph; the prosecutions and
martyrdom of the Prophet, the exodus of
the Saints from Nauvoo, and the long
Western journey. At the close of the inter-
view, the lady seemingly much interested,
expressed a hope that we might meet again,
and we parted with a warm clasp of hands.
	Then was I conscious that there, sur-
rounded by the wealth of the world; splen-
dor and brilliance such as I had never before
beheld; the purple, the fine linen, and the
glitter of gems, where one would never
dream the prophet’s name would be men-
tioned, the prophecy of the angel was again
fulfilled.
	Near us a lady had been standing who
advanced, and I recognized Frau Weiner, at
whose home only two or three days before
we had attended a musical and reception.
After a genuine German greeting, she said,
“Will you remain in Berlin, now the Con-
gress is over?” Being answered in the af-
firmative, she added, “I will send my card,
will you come to my house? I would hear
more of the ‘Mormons’?” Gladly the invi-
tation was accepted, with a promise to come.
This was on Saturday evening. On the fol-
lowing Monday morning, a servant in livery
appeared at our lodgings with two cards;
one bore the name of his mistress, the other
the time of our promised visit.
	Wednesday at 3 p. m. found the writer at
Frau Weiner’s palatial residence in an aris-
tocratic quarter of Berlin. After the usual
greetings our hostess led the way into an
adjoining room, where according to German
custom, she served dainty refreshments. If
one does not eat with the Germans they are
grieved, and think you are not pleased with
them. After tea was served, our hostess
said: “Now tell me about your religion;
you know, I never heard of it, until I heard
you conversing with Fraulein S—at the
banquet.”
	The account of the visit of the Angel


[Column 1]
Moroni to the prophet Joseph Smith elicited
no great surprise. “I could not say an angel
would not come,” she said, “when I know
they have visited the earth in days of old;
if then, why not now?”
	Just then, a sweet girlish face looked in
at the door. “Come in,” the lady said, “I
want you to hear about this boy prophet.”
Introducing me she said, “My daughter can
speak better English than I can, she has
just graduated from the English course at
school.” As she entered, she kissed her
mother with great respect, and I noticed
that she always waited until her mother
ceased speaking before voicing her own
thoughts. While the young lady was not
skeptical nor prejudiced during the recital
of the angel’s first visit to Joseph Smith,
she asked several pointed but natural ques-
tions. The story impressed them; riveted
their attention. We spoke of America, her
resources and wealth; of California with her
wonderful climate, fruit and flowers. From
a descriptive poem of the first visit of the
“Mormon” Tabernacle Choir to that land
I read a few fragments.
	“Why did your people not go on to Cali-
fornia?” the young lady asked. The reason
given that God himself had chosen this
abode for his Saints. I had brought a book
of views with me, “In and Around Salt
Lake.” Soon our minds were engrossed
with Utah; her towering mountains capped
 with eternal snow; her pure breezes and
glorious sunsets; her great inland sea, with
its picturesque islands, and her living
springs of water that had made the desert
blossom as the rose.
	How enthusiastic all people become when
speaking of the wonders and beauties of
America.
	But I wished to call on some of our Amer-
ican delegates, who on the morrow were
leaving for home, so I arose to go.
	“Will you not ride with me?” the lady
quickly asked. “I would show you Berlin.”
Assuring her that her guest would glady be
subject to her wishes, she ordered her car-
riage.
	On one side of the house was a covered,
glass arched drive way, where we found the
carriage waiting as we descended the stairs.
	Fraulein Weiner was to accompany us
as far as the school that the younger chil-
dren attended. There we parted with her,
even with regret, as we would not likely
meet again. So it happened that I rode
through beautiful Charlottenburg the guest
of that noble lady. I observed the solemn
looking footmen—their arms crossed—as
the equipages passed us, and wondered if
those I was wont to meet at home, would
recognize me in this role? My friend spoke
of her home life; of her children, and of
many things that drew us together as
women and mothers. This visit we enjoyed
fully as much as the ride itself. Is not Ber-
lin a grand city? Are not her suburbs de-
lightful? No squalid, forbidding-looking
houses, but all seemingly new and attrac-
tive. The poor in Berlin, as in other Ger-
man cities, live on the fourth or fifth story
(no elevators), as the rent is less the higher
up you go. Each family rents a “Wohnung”
as it is called, which has all the conven-
iences, and where they are just as private,
in their home life, as their more wealthy
neighbors.
	We conversed about the Congress, which
had just closed; of the many brilliant minds

[Column 2]
who had given us their best thoughts, and
anticipations of woman’s enlarged sphere,
in the various countries from whence they
came. Of course, Mrs. May Wright Sewall
had been our able and honored president,
and she had made her presence felt through
all that vast gathering. Then we spoke of
those returning home, and incidentally of
those who were to leave on the morrow.
“Shall we not return now?” Frau Weiner
asked. “I would call on the Americans, too;
I would like to meet them.” Pressing the
button in the coach, the footman appeared
at the window; his mistress gave him her
orders, and we were driven rapidly back to
Berlin, and down to the Ballast Hotel. 
	The German lady could not understand
a woman being a minister, so she asked
Rev. Anna Shaw if she baptized people.
	“Yes,” she replied, “if they desire it.”
	“And do you marry people?” the lady
asked.
	“Yes,” she answered, “and I am glad to
say, that when I marry them, they never get
un-married, but live happy ever after.”
	Speaking of the agitation at Washington
on the “Mormon” question, Mrs. Chapman
Catt asked if I remembered a certain lady,
naming her, who had lived among us for
some time in Utah? Yes, the lady was well
remembered. Receptions had been held in
her honor, parties been given, where the
writer had heard her speak in glowing terms
of the women of Utah; what wonders they
had accomplished in wresting that land from
the desert.
	“Well,” continued Mrs. Catt, “all last
winter they lectured against you in the East
and stirred up the trouble you are now hav-
ing. Your own state is the hotbed of the
anti-‘Mormon’ movement.”
	Looking wonderingly at me, the German
lady said, “Anti-‘Mormon,’ anti-‘Mormon’?”
To her, the story of the restoration of the
Gospel was so simple and plain that, to her
mind, there could be no antagonism to its
truthfulness. Aside, I said to her, “Has
there not always been an anti-spirit? Even
in the dawn of time, did not Cain kill Abel,
the righteous one?”
	“Yes,” she slowly answered; “yes.”
	On the way back to Noelendorf, the sub-
ject of Mrs. Catt’s remarks was again
spoken of. This brought out the story of
the mobbing of the early Saints, which
ended in the martyrdom of the boy prophet
and his brother; and the expulsion of the
Church from Nauvoo. All this was to sat-
isfy that “anti-spirit.” The story moved
the tender heart of the lady to sadness, her
eyes were suffused with tears. “Was it not
so in the days of Christ; did those of His
own household receive him? Was he not
wounded in the house of his friends?” Her
gentle face wore a troubled look, but her
heart could understand.
	Proffering the book of views, I asked,
“Would you accept this as a souvenir of a
most delightful afternoon?”
	“I shall be so proud,” she eagerly re-
sponded. “O, yes, will you come again next
week,” she inquired. “Come to tea and
bring your young daughter with you; I
will send you a card.” We lingered long
over the “good bye,” our hearts were full
of regret, at the parting of the way.
	In the quiet hour following, I pondered
over the afternoon’s visit, and its incidents.
Who of my friends would have recognized
me riding in that stately carriage, through

[Column 3]
the streets of Berlin? For two years I had
tramped in the mission field in England,
carrying the gospel mostly to those in the
lowly walks of life. For being a “Mormon”
I had borne the scoffs of the idle and those
who knew not what they were doing, but I
had worn the proud distinction that came be-
cause I was a “Mormon.” I had been
happy when the “Mormon” was hurled at
me and my people slandered. “Are you not
working for Him?” I had asked myself. “If
you cannot bear that little thing for His
sake, you are not worthy of Him.” Did I
love Him, then could I bear for His sake,
and I had lain down on my hard English
bed and slept the sleep of peace. In memory
there arose the happy homes, where the
family groups were outlined in the glow of
the open fire, and thoughts of days when I,
too, was thus surrounded, brought again the
pang I was unable to still. Then the faces
of many congenial friends rose before me
like the one with whom I had just parted.
The doors of poverty had been shut in my
face, but the gates of the wealthy and titled
had been opened wide, and “Come, in and
sup with us, and come again,” had been
said, over and over.
	The Angel Moroni, how oft have I de-
clared his words, and borne testimony of
his visit to the prophet Joseph Smith! It
seems he must know; at times he feels so
near, I almost expect to see him.
	In this service I re-visit many beautiful
places; see the faces of gentle loving friends
who were part of my life then. Shall we
meet again? Yes! When or where I know
not, but we will meet again. Kindly, warm
hearts may be deceived; walls of prejudice
may be built up ever so high, but we will
meet again. It may be when all things are
made plain by the light of eternity, when all
the mists are rolled away. With some in
the world I have left a solemn testimony.
In parting they have said, “When we get
to the other world, we will look for you.”
	“And I will look for you; then you will
know that what I have told you is true.”
And the Angel Moroni? His prophecy will
then all have been fulfilled. 
				LYDIA D. ALDER.
	Salt Lake City, Utah.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.
	At the convention of the German Catholic
central verein held last September in Chi-
cago an important step pertaining to women 
was taken. For the first time since its or-
ganization women were admitted into mem-
bership. This step, which is certainly a pro-
gressive one, met with the endorsement of 
Archbishop Falconio, papal delegate, and
Archbishop Quigley, of Chicago, both of 
whom addressed the convention.
	The organization has for its purpose edu-
cation along practical lines of social reform.
Archbishop Falconio conferred the papal
blessing on the 64 women who were ad-
mitted as delegates to the convention.
	“Works without faith are like a fish with-
out water; it wants the element it should line
in. A building without a basis cannot stand;
faith is the fundamation, and every good ac-
tion is a stone laid.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT. 

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,	-	DECEMBER, 1913


THE UTAH WOMAN’S PRESS CLUB.
	The Utah Woman’s Press Club, at
their annual meeting held an election of
officers and discussed informally the coming
year’s work. Mrs. Amanda Done was elect-
ed president, and Mrs. May W. Cannon,
vice president; Mrs. Cora Leaver, secretary
and treasurer.
	The loan fund which is to be used to as-
sist in the publishing of books by the mem-
bers, is steadily increasing and the collection
of books for the library was also reported
favorably.
	An interesting feature of the meeting was
the proposal by Miss Kate Thomas, that
the society endeavor to get Aunt Em to
publish her long promised book, “Great
People I Have Known.” This proposition
was followed by a discussion which resulted
in the decision that for each meeting during
the year a chapter of the book be prepared
and read by the author. Certainly the many
friends of Mrs. Wells will be delighted with
this idea and we trust it will be carried out.
	The new officers are full of zeal for their
work, and everything points to a most suc-
cessful and profitable year.


AN ARRAIGNMENT OF PRESIDENT 
			WILSON.
	The Rev. Anna H. Shaw created quite a 
sensation at the national suffrage associa-
tion meeting when she declared President
Wilson had fallen short of the greatest op-
portunity he ever had or would ever have
in failing to say a word in behalf of wom-
an’s suffrage, when he read his annual mes-
sage to Congress.  She said no other Presi-
dent has ever had the opportunity of speak-
ing a word which might ultimately lead to


the enfranchisement of a large part of the
human family. Even Lincoln, who by a
word freed a race, had not this opportunity
to release from bonds one-half of the hu-
man family. I feel I must make this state-
ment as broad as it is for the reason that
we at Budapest, last year, realized woman-
kind throughout the world looked to the
United States to blaze the way for the ex-
tension of universal suffrage. President
Wilson has missed the one thing that might
have made it possible for him never to be
forgotten.


THE RELIEF SOCIETY OUTLINE. 
	A general outline for work in the Relief
Society has been prepared by a committee
appointed by the officers and directors of the 
General Board. The outline will be ready
for distribution to the several stakes by the
first of the year.
	It embraces many important and interest-
ing subjects and can not fail to be most
beneficial to the members of the organiza-
tion.
	Much attention is given in the outline to
genealogical work, to which the officers of
the different stakes are urged to give their
early attention. Some stakes have already
had organized classes for this study and
have done some splendid work, others are
just adopting it, while still others have not
yet taken it up. It is the desire of the general
officers that this coming year all the societies
willl have completed this course and thus
instigated a desire among the people of bet-
ter, more systematic and increased temple
work.
	It is likely that some of the subjects on
home ethics have already been studied in the
societies, and in such cases the repetition of
such lessons is left to the discretion of the
presiding officers to determine.
	Where societies have not completed the
outline work that has been provided for
them by the respective stakes, that also is
optional with the local presiding officers to
decide, whether to finish the work already
started and then take up the new outline or
to drop the work and begin with the general
outline as soon as it is received.
	The subject of a general outline for the
Relief Society has been much discussed the
past few years, in fact ever since the moth-
er’s work was introduced as departmental
work, and there still remains the question
whether the most benefit can be derived
from the whole body studying the same sub-
jects at the same time, or from each stake
planning its own work. After long delibera-
tion on this matter the general officers have
decided to issue the new outline.
	That it will be gratefully and joyfully re-
ceived by the members and officers through-
out the different wards and stakes is certain
and much pleasure and advantage will
doubtless be derived from its study.
	The outline has been prepared by a most
efficient and capable committee and in its
preparation much time, study and thought
have been given.
	The work will go forth to the sisters of


the Relief Society with the hope that every
lesson will bring splendid results, and awake
a new interest in the great work in which
we are engaged.


THE NATIONAL COUNCIL.
	The executive session of the National
Council of Women was held in New York
City Nov. 21, 22.
	Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells and Miss Sarah
McLelland of the Relief Society, Mrs. Mar-
tha H. Tingey, and Mrs. Edith Lovesy of
the Y. L. M. I. Association, were in attend-
ance at the session. It was quite important
that all the affiliated societies be represented
wtih their full quota as much important
business was transacted, not the least of
which was the election of officers. Next
year, 1914, the quinquennial will be held in
Rome, when all the great organizations of
women throughout the world will send rep-
resentatives.
	There have been only four gatherings of
the International Council, the first held in
the United States in the city of Washington
when Mrs. May Wright Sewall was elected
president, the second was held in London
and Mrs. Sewall was re-elected, the third in
Berlin when the Duchess of Aberdeen was
chosen president, the fourth in Montreal
when the Duchess was again elected. The
discussions at the triennial in New York
were in anticipation of the business which
will be transacted next year in Rome and
dealt largely with social legislation and mat-
ters pertaining to the status of women in
social and political life. The Utah women
who were in attendance not only took part
in the discussions but also received impor-
tant appointments on committees and were
the recipients of marked attention by the
women of the council. Mrs. Emmeline B.
Wells was elected chairman of the advisory
committee of the Council, Mrs. Clarissa S.
Williams of the Relief Society was elected a
delegate from the United States to the quin-
quennial, to be held in Rome in 1914, and
Mrs. Ida B. Smith, who is at present in
England with her husband, President Hy-
rum Smith, was elected an alternate.
	After the adjournment of the council the
Utah delegation visited friends and relatives
in New York, attended the Sunday services
at the mission headquarters and then pro-
ceeded to Washington, where they spent
Thanksgiving day. The influence gained in
the world by association with women of
note and ability who devote their lives to
causes of humanity is helpful to our women,
and the Latter-day Saint women yield an
influence that is beneficial to others. Much
prejudice has been allayed through this affil-
iation and the true position and condition of
the "Mormon" women has been made plain.
Falsehoods and slanders have been refuted
and the truth been told concerning the peo-
ple of Utah.
	The presence of Latter-day Saint women
at these great gatherings has led to many
newspaper comments, and their dignity, in-
telligence, and benevolence have been sub-
jects of much praise. The officers of the
council have found the Utah women most
capable, and often advise with them on im-
portant matters. Such recognition is much
appreciated and we trust will always as now,
be well deserved. The Utah delegation re-
turned home safely after an absence of two
weeks, feeling that their mission was the
means of much good.


NATIONAL SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION.
	The meetings of the National Suffrage
Association, this month at Washington, are
considered the most important ever held
by that association. The suffrage women
have held annual gatherings in the different
cities of the United States, meeting every
alternate year at the national capital for the
past forty years. The results in gaining
recruits to the suffrage ranks, removing
prejudice, advancing social legislation for
the benefit of the woman laborer, and many
other achievements have marked the on-
ward trend of the work, but the fact that
in all that time only ten states have granted
equal rights to women, is not considered
sufficient progress and that the rest of the
women of the nation might enjoy the fran-
chise the pleading, petitioning and waiting
period is about over; patience is exhausted;
and the women now propose to make a de-
mand from the law-givers for more atten-
tion to this subject. The papers state that
the scene resembled a charge on a citadel,
when more than a thousand women marched
from the suffrage headquarters to the cap-
tol. The women moved in regimental
formation, in quick step order, and crowded
the hearing room long before the committee
appointed to hear them arrived. The re-
quest made by the women was that a House
committee on suffrage be appointed, equiv-
alent to a similar one in the Senate. The
request is made at every session of the asso-
ciation for an amendment to the Constitu-
tion in behalf of the enfranchisement of
women, and with special committees in each
branch of Congress the day seems not so
far distant for this result.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A NATIONAL ACADEMY OF LITERA-
	TURE AND ART FOR WOMEN.
	It is with great satisfaction that we note
the wonderful advance in thought among
great people concerning the status of women
in art and literature. While some of the
greatest writers have been women, it is still
a fact that public acknowledgment of wom-
en’s talents has seldom if ever been given,
save perhaps to those of histrionic ability;
now, however, an American has taken the
initiative and the word has gone forth, and
another great step has been taken in human
progress. Professor Brander Matthews of
Columbia University, president of the men’s
national institute, in an address before the
academy proposed a national institute for
women.
	Professor Matthews said that women had
never been given an opportunity to become
members of the national institute. He said
the subject had never come up, it has never
been considered. It is quite proper, how-
ever, that women should have an institute
and academy of their own. If such writers
as Mary Wilkins Freeman, Edith Wharton,
Margaret Deland, and Ida M. Tarbell, and
such painters as Martha Caisatt and Mary
Beilitt, would join to initiate such a move-
ment the national institute would be glad to
co-operate with them in any way possible in
the formation of the women’s organization.
	The gold medal of the academy was pre-
sented this year to Augustus Thomas as a
dramatist. Previous awards have been in
sculpture to Augustus St. Gaudens, in his-
tory to James Ford Rhodes; in poetry, to
James Whitcomb Riley, and in architecture,
to William B. Mead. Why have a separate
institute for women? Rather let these noted
women, mentioned together with others,
unite in persuading Professor Matthews to
interest himself in the admission of women
to membership in the academy and institute.


[Column 1]
		AUNT BETSY’S LEGACY.
	Main street in the town of Lind consisted
of one store, where general merchandise was
sold, a drug store and post office combined,
one one side of the street, while on the other
was a plain square board building known as
“The Lind Hotel,” a stable with yard where
teams could be boarded for a day or so, and
hay and grain were sold, an amusement hall,
and a little shop containing patterns and ma-
terial for art needle work, where lessons
were given in all kinds of embroidery,
crochet and knitting. 
	It is needless to say in such a town there
were no paved streets nor electric lights, nor
other modern improvements, on the con-
trary, the wild grass fringed the edges of
the sidewalks, and narrow creeks of running
water took the place of curbing between the
streets and the walks. The settlers of Lind
had reserved one large square for city pur-

[Column 2]
poses where a rather pretentious city hall
was erected from native stone, in the cupola
of which hung a massive bell, this with a
less pretentious building on the same square
which served for a school room during the
week, and on Sundays a house of worship,
constituted the only public buildings in the
town. It is with the little art shop on the
corner, however, that this story has to deal.
In new settlements out on the western
prairies one seldom expects to find culture
and refinement. The very hardships of pio-
neer life and the circumstances which lead
a family out into such places would rather
lead one to expect a rough and fortune-
seeking community. The town of Lind
was not settled either by fortune seekers or
rangers, but its settlers were a part of that
wandering people who, driven from their
beautiful homes in the east, had sought and
found a refuge in the heart of the western
desert. The Lind people had not left with
the first exiles, nor had they followed them
to their destination, but had stopped midway
and established a trading post, expecting
later to continue the journey. This, how-
ever, never happened and the little town
became a permanent home for the few
weary travellers, increasing but slowly as the
years rolled on, and never assuming a thriv-
ing community. In such a place the men
have generally the most amusement, at least
time hangs less heavily on their hands, for
with the work of subduing the soil, trading
horses and raising cattle, such as is always
the business of these prairie towns, their
minds are well occupied, but the women
fare less kindly. The homes are generally
widely separated and the tasks are less in-
teresting. It happened, therefore, that the
one bright spot in the town of Lind for the
women folks was the little corner store kept
by the dearest of old ladies known to every-
body as “Aunt Betsy.”
	Perhaps some day you may happen to see
on the walls of some modern library or
drawing room an old-fashioned sampler or
ottoman cover worked in red and yellow
wool roses, or a buckskin gauntlet, em-
broidered in silk floss; if you do, it will re-
call Aunt Betsy and her little store where
she taught the women to fashion all kinds
of wonderful designs with the needle and
crochet hook. With her brother’s family
Aunt Betsy had come to America in the
early 60s from a pleasant English home,
and with them had remained by the way-
side. It was not her nature, however, to
be a dependent on her brother nor a nurse
for his children, and having brought with
her a splendid box of material for needle
work and some little means of her own she
soon established herself in business making
her home in the back end of the room, di-
vided only from the store by a large curtain
of blue denim.
	Nothing ever happens in a country town
but what everybody knows every detail and
the corner grocery, post office or village
store, is the great dispensary of news, but
for once in the town of Lind the people were
dumb and not a soul could explain the mys-
tery when one Christmas morning Aunt
Betsy found on her doorstep a wee baby
girl. In a city, such a circumstance might
not create any consternation, at least not
for long, but in an open prairie village miles
from everywhere, in a town where every-
body knew everybody, and there never had
before been a mystery, this happened to be
more than a nine-day wonder, in fact it

[Column 3]
never ceased to be a wonder until many
years later when—but wait, this comes not
now. When Aunt Betsy picked the bundle
off her doorstep in the early morning it had
a light covering of feathery snow, for the
snow had been falling all night and this
slight dusting showed that it had not lain
there very long; sufficiently long, however,
for any tracks of vehicle or footprints to be
covered, and it seemed as though it had
dropped down from the skies with the 
shower of flakes that covered it. Such a-
theory, indeed, Aunt Betsy was willing to
accept, for it was better for her to look upon
the little thing as a gift from heaven and
immediately try to give it a mother’s care,
than to strive to fathom a mystery desired
to be kept, and perhaps bring upon its head
disgrace and sorrow. After many surmises
and unnecessary questionings into each
others’ affairs the village folk resigned
themselves to Aunt Betsy’s philosophy, “If
it didn’t come down from heaven with the
snow, probably the Lord knew where it did
come from, and when he is ready would let
them know too; I only knew it was here
and I intend to take care of it and ask
no further questions.” She did not say,
however, that on its little body was a tiny
shirt, made of soft linen on which some
three weeks previously, she believed she had
stamped a small embroidery scallop, and
which now she had laid carefully away for
further developments.
	When the tiny thing was old enough to
have a name all the women in the town
wanted to assist in the selection, and many
an interesting conversation was held over
the counter about the baby’s name. “She is
so pretty,” said one mother. “I should
think you would call her June or Rose or
Pearl or some fine name like that.” “She is
such a little thing,” said another; “why
don’t you call her Fanny or Minnie or
Mattie.” “She almost belongs to all of us,”
said still another; “why not name her Lindy
for the town.” This seemed to suit most
of the women folk, but Aunt Betsy was a
long time deciding. In the meantime, how-
ever, she was making most wonderful clothes
for the approaching day of the christening;
embroidered flannels and dress, while a cloak
of white cashmere done in blue forget-me-
nots was the principal gift of this loving
foster mother, and not until the second
Christmas, when the little thing was begin-
ning to talk, did she receive a name.
	“I’d like to please you all,” Aunt Betsy
said, “but you have so many different opin-
ons. Now I never but once in my life had
a chance to hear or see any great personage
and that was when my father took us all up
to London to hear Jenny Lind sing, think-
ing perhaps as her name was the same as
ours we might be some relation, and it’s a-
good thing to be loyal to your own family,
so I think I’ll just name this little might of
a thing for that great singer. Lind being
the name of this town named for my brother,
who was the first town officer, I guess it
will suit you all pretty well anyhow.”
	What Aunt Betsy didn’t tell was that the
little embroidered shirt so carefully laid
away had been stamped for some singer
girl, who a few weeks before had responded
time and time again to their applause in the
town amusement hall. So Jenny Lind, un-
der Aunt Betsy’s tutelage and care became
quite a girl in the little community. She
was trained in all things, which her good
foster mother knew, and though her accom-


[Column 1]
plishments were few, she was the leader
among the young people in every social
affair and a great favorite with all.
	Aunt Betsy gave the girl great freedom
at all times, except when some straggling
troupe of players stopped on their way and
entertained the villagers for a night or two.
At such times she was more than watchful
and never let her out of her sight, and at
just such times Jenny herself was more anx-
ious for her freedom. The dull little town
always seemed so much duller after these
visits. The novelty of entertaining actors
even of mediocre ability was quite exhilarat-
ing, and Jenny’s feet always seemed to want
to dance much faster when she heard the
music, so fast indeed that poor Aunt Betsy
was afraid she would dance into their crowd
and disappear as suddenly as she had come.
	Perhaps she would have joined some of
the troupes had she followed her own in-
clination, but there was a magnet greater
even than her love for her foster mother
which held Jenny from leaving home. The
youth of the village had looked with admir-
ing eyes for a long time on this young girl.
More beautiful and something different to
the other girls, she had unwittingly won the
hearts of the young men, but by none of
these had her heart been touched. It was
not love for anything human that held Jenny
at home, but a fascination for a piece of
needle work of her foster mother’s over
which she marveled and questioned and pon-
dered many hours. As time went on Jenny
assumed most of the duties of the little home
and business, leaving Aunt Betsy more time
for her teaching and embroidery. This par-
ticular piece of work, which fascinated
Jenny, was never worked upon when others
were around, only at night and early morn-
ings, and the only satisfaction Jenny ever
received for her questions was “some day it
will explain to you a mystery.” The thought
that perhaps it had something to do with
her birth was enough to keep the girl near
her kind benefactress who, though she had
been all that a mother could be, had never
been called other than Aunt Betsy, “leaving
the sacred name of mother to be given only,
if the good Lord ever allowed, to her who
had the right”—so said the kind old soul
when upbraided by the girl for not allowing
her to call her mother. “You were my most
precious Christmas gift, Jenny, and some
day, I hope, we will have the chance to give
on that holy day, an offering in return for
the joy you have brought to me.”
	It was not easy to obtain always the
proper colored silks for the fine workman-
ship of Aunt Betsy’s wonderful picture, and
when sent for, it took a long time to get the
articles by mail, and so like Penelope’s
famous needle work it seemed as though it
never would be done, but as Jenny grew to
young womanhood the tapestry took on a
more finished form. On the Christmas when
Jenny was eighteen it was her gift from
Aunt Betsy.
	A work the dear old lady had wrought
throughout the eighteen years; a work the
tired brain had pondered over and the clever
hands had at last been able to accomplish.
	The picture was a young girl like Jenny in
all respects save complexion, for Jenny’s
hair was dark, while the picture girl had
hair of burnished gold. Jenny’s eyes were
that unknown color between the brown and
violet which sometimes seem black and
sometimes blue—hazel the poets call them

[Column 2]
and the painter calls them grey. This had
been the difficult part in making the picture,
for with, Jenny’s ever-changing eyes in front
of her and the memory of those soft, brown
eyes when she sold the little pattern, Aunt
Betsy was much puzzled, however, with the
touch of a soft brush to help with her needle,
she as though by inspiration, caught the soft,
dreamy expression and the work was fin-
shed. That her memory served her well is
not remarkable, for in all the years she had
been striving to recall the details of dress
and figure of the girl she had spoken to, but
once, and her work was not alone a work of
art but a memory and an inspiration.
	To what purpose had she thus employed
all the years, and now what use could this
specimen of handicraft be? She knew not
herself, but she gave it to her little girl with
admonition to display it where possible but
to never part with it, for in its lines were
written all she knew of Jenny’s mother.
	The town of Lind never grew beyond the
village dimensions, though the railroad came
within a few miles and a branch line was
run down to the town where a cattle guard
was built, and not far away a great city grew
out of the plains, to which the village folk
took their produce and where they some-
times went for entertainment.
	Before another Christmas Aunt Betsy had
fallen into her last sleep, leaving besides her
picture legacy, all her earthly possessions to
her adopted daughter. Jenny very soon dis-
posed of her property, having no natural
taste for those things which had been a part
of her existence and with only a few cher-
shed articles sought the more exciting life
in the near-by city. She had some little
means and considerable common sense, so
was soon established in a good home and
began her pursuit of occupation. Perhaps
it was fate, perhaps fancy, which led her
direct to the manager of an opera house to
apply for a position on the stage before she
had ever had any schooling in dramatic art,
dancing or musicc other than the church
sociables of her native town afforded. She
was not without the knowledge, however,
that she had the gift, for never in all her
life had she been able to keep still when she
heard the sound of music. It was not her
voice, though she was something of a singer,
that responded to the strains, it was her feet,
and many a time in her rambles for wild
flowers out on the prairie had she whiled
away hours, dancing alone to the music of
her own voice. So when the manager asked
her how long she had taken lessons in danc-
ing she answered, “All her life.” He gave
her a trial and she swept before him with
such weird grace and agile step as to at once
win his favor and obtain employment. He
related to his wife at dinner the story of the
new girl who had applied for a position and
how beautifully, yet wildly she danced, and
that she had no conception of costumes or
stage requirements, yet he had decided to
engage her, and told his wife, who was
herself a retired actress, to be at the re-
hearsal on the following day and take the
new girl in hand.
	Jenny was somewhat amazed when she
appeared for rehearsal, with the appearance
and chatter of the bevy of chorus girls and
other people who assembled to do over their
parts before the evening performance. Her
heart just about failed her and she had de-
termined to quietly withdraw when the man-
ager’s wife accosted her. Mrs. Watts knew

[Column 3]
instantly the girl, she was so different in
every way, and she saw first the hesitancy,
then the resolve in her face to quit, so she
speedily intercepted Jenny. Mrs. Watts was
not an unkind woman but had given untold
aid and help to many struggling girls. She
had seen hundreds come to the stage led—
most of them—with an idea that it was a
quick way to fame and fortune, only to find
it the quickest way to an opening to the
way to shame and sorrow, and her heart
had often led her to advise girls to keep
away from the footlights and seek other em-
ployment. But this was her husband’s busi-
ness and she, as far as her conscience would
permit, assisted him in his work. It is a
hard thing to be manager of theatrical con-
cerns and be above blame.
	The profession itself makes girls liable to
temptation, the late hours, the stage ap-
parel, the necessary contact with all kinds
of people, the freedom of speech, and the
generally unsatisfactory wages are factors
which every girl should consider before
adopting a stage career, and if she be pure
minded should ask herself “Am I strong
enough to place art first and with all my
might struggle against every temptation and
live alone for that art?” Few consider and
those generally who do, find themselves not
so strong as they believed.
	To Jenny the first rehearsal was a perfect
nightmare. She was not asked to join the
girls just at first but to watch them; prob-
ably had she begun the dance with them, the
music would so have lured her on that she
would have overcome her timidity. Some-
thing in the face of Mrs. Watts held her
almost spellbound. When that lady finally
asked her if she was ready to join the girls
in their second try of the dance she said,
“No, I must go, but you, I must see again,
think I have seen you before.” Her slow,
strange speech mystified the lady and she
was preparing to let her go when she sud-
denly caught a look in Jenny’s face which
brought back some forgotten hour. And
the two women stood before each other as
though trying to recall some past acquaint-
ance. Presently Jenny, who though the
younger was after all the stronger, said come
with me I have something for you to see,
and the two left the theatre together[-]
	After a half hour ride on the car they
were in Jenny’s room and she had unpacked
Aunt Betsy’s legacy and together they were
trying to unravel its mystery. At first Mrs.
Watts thought the girl must be mad to think
she had any connection with just a piece of
embroidered tapestry, but suddenly her eye
caught the scalloped pattern worked on the
girl’s bodice. Then she remarked, “I used
to do some little needle work; I believe I
have done that pattern on the waist.”
	With this Jenny flew to her trunk and
brought forth the little linen shirt Aunt
Betsy had treasured for so many years, and
then—they both knew.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Miss Josephine Baker, as chief of the
Division of Child Hygiene of the New York
City Health Department, is concerned with
the well-being of over 825,000 children.
There are 135,000 babies born in New York
each year and during the four years of Dr.
Baker’s administration infant mortality has
been reduced by thousands annually.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			MOTHERHOOD.
	In considering the subject of Motherhood,
shall do so under several different head-
ings: first, what we owe our mothers; sec-
ond, what our mothers owe us; third, the
conjoint responsibility of father and mother,
in rearing a family.
	James Whitcomb Riley says: “The
heaven that lies about us in our infancy, is
motherhood, and no matter how exalted, or
how depraved we may become, we are al-
ways attended by the grace of a mother’s
love.” Every great man has glorified a
great mother A great Jewish rabbi says:
“God could not be everywhere, so He made
mothers.”
	Is there any limit to the debt of gratitude
we owe to the one who, since giving us
birth, has stood like a wall of granite be-
tween us and the ills of childhood, the
temptations of youth, and the sorrows of
maturity, until age has whitened her hair, or
perhaps the summons has come and she has
passed over the silent river, leaving a va-
cancy that no one else on earth can fill; no
one else so willing, so sympathetic, so end-
less and untiring" in devotion. 

	“Nobody knows the work it takes
	To keep the Home together,
	Nobody knows the steps it takes.
	Nobody knows, but Mother.”

	Who shall say when the debt we owe her
is paid? and in what way it shall be paid?
No one but the child himself. Bulwer says:
“The best monument a child can raise to the
memory of his mother, is that of a clean,
upright life, such as she would have re-
joiced to see her son live.” As children we
cannot escape the responsibility of our ac-
tions, and they most truly reflect credit or
discredit upon ‘the memory of the one we
love most, our mother. One mother, in
writing to her son, said:

“Do you know that your soul, is of my soul
	such part
That you seem to be fiber and core of my
	heart?
None other can pain me as you dear, can do,
None other can please me or praise me as you,
Remember, the world will be quick with its
	blame,
If shadow or shame ever darken your name,
‘Like mother, like son is a saying so true,
The world will judge largely of ‘mother’ by
	you.”

	Truly then, until we too cross over and
join her on the shore of the hereafter, the
debt and responsibility we are under to
mother, is never paid.

WHAT A MOTHER OWES HER CHILD.
	Martin Luther has said: “The prosperity
of a country depends not upon the abund-
ance of its resources, nor on the strength of
its fortifications, nor on the beauty of its
public buildings, but upon its number of en-
lightened and cultivated citizens, its men of
character and worth; here are to be found
its true interests, its chief strength, its real
power.” Upon whom does the responsibility
rest, of giving such men to the world, if not
upon the mothers of men?
	No greater blessing was ever given by
our Heavenly Father to man and woman,
than parenthood. The custody of a little
child, fresh from our Father’s presence, is
the greatest trust confided to mankind.

[Column 2]
“They are idols of hearts and of households,
	They are angels of God in disguise.
His sunlight still sleeps in their tresses,
	His glory, still gleams in their eyes.”

	Having an assurance of this, how anxious
we should be as parents to so order our
lives, that the tender litttle plants should
grow upright and tall, and straight, that the
fruit-time of their lives might be all that
the blossoming promised.
	No more ennobling and worthy desire can
fill the heart of any woman than to be thus
abundantly helpful to these little children,
not only in her own home, but in every
home to which her influence may be ex-
tended.
	The four corner-stones upon which char-
acter should be builded are: a loving faith
in God, truthfulness, obedience, and self-
denial. The ideals which fill the mental
horizon of youth color all after years; they
are the well-springs which feed the “thought
garden” of the soul. Let us see to it then
that these ideals are lofty, filled with the
love of God, and charity to mankind. “That
which we make our children desire, is of
more importance than that which we make
them learn.”
	Most of the crime and misery of the world
are due to the early influence of home. In-
fancy is neither vicious nor virtuous it is
simply innocent, and is susceptible alike to
good and bad influences. Its safety depends
alone on the watchfulness of its guardians.
	Parents, your child is a bound volume of
blank paper, upon which is to be written the
history of your own actions.	The poet
Burns said:

“O, wad some pow’r the giftie’ gie us
To see oursel’s as ithers see us!”

	My friends, we need go no farther than
the confines of our own homes, to have this
wish gratified. No mirror ever more faith-
fully reproduced an object held before it,
than do the acts of our children represent
the lives of their parents. Of all human in-
fluences those of the home are the most far-
reaching in their results. It then remains
for us as parents to make our homes as per-
fect as we can, that our children may find
within their walls a joy and contentment
against which the allurements of the amuse-
ment hall will have no influence. I believe
one of the most potent factors in making a
home thus perfect is music. You know we
are told a song of praise is a prayer to God.
There is no perfect home without a musical
instrument of some kind. There is no tie
that will withstand the ravages of time and
absence, like the memory of the good old
home songs. Just last week, in the state
prison of California, a prisoner about to
suffer the death penalty for the crime of
murder, was asked by the warden what his
last request would be. He was a native of
Italy, and with tears in his eyes, he asked,
that a woman from his own country, with
a sweet voice, be found and allowed to come
and sing to him the songs of his fatherland.
Hand in hand with music is the literature of
the home. We cannot be too careful what
books and magazines we place within the
reach of a child. Henry Ward Beecher said:
“Books are the windows through which the 
soul looks out; a home without books is like
a house without windows.” We should pro-
vide a diversity of reading in order that
the child’s mind, through the medium of
books, may be given a knowledge of every-

[Column 3]
thing that will fit him for future usefulness;
but always with one great aim in view, to
bring the mind in sweet accord with the
will of God. There is one book that will
never fail us in our hours of pleasure or sor-
row—the Bible. When Sir Walter Scott lay
dying in his great library in Abbotsford, he
said to his son-in-law, “Reach me down the
Book.” “Which book,” asked Lockheart,
viewing the shelves, filled with thousands of
volumes. “There is but one Book,” cried
Scott, and he died clasping the Bible in his
arms. I believe we do not, as a people,
make sufficient study of our sacred books.
If we did, we would be better fitted for the
responsibilities we have to meet, as parents
and members of the Church to which we
belong.

CONJOINT RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTS.
	Much has been said about the responsi-
bility of motherhood. We have it sung into
our ears from pulpit and press. I would like
to impress upon those present, if possible,
the unity of the father and mother in the
rearing of a family of children. Neither
parent, no matter how zealous, can alone
make a perfect home. It takes the united
wisdom and effort of both to successfully
cope with the difficulties that arise. How
often we see fathers who seem to take no
farther interest in their child, than to see
that it is well housed, well fed, well clothed.
When mother says the boy, or the girl,
should go away to college, he stands ready
to meet all accounts for board, etc., that
accrue therefrom. He leaves all the train-
ing—physically, mentally, spiritually and
morally—to the mother, teacher, or any one
who will assume the responsibility. Now,
all this I hold to be wrong. The father owes
it to himself as well as the child, to be its
companion and confidant. I have not much
fear for the future of a child whose father
nightly calls the family together and, in a
few well-chosen words, tells them of life,
and the temptations they will meet, and then
with a short earnest prayer, sends them to
bed with a heart filled with gratitude for
God’s goodness. Long after that father has
answered the summons from above, will his
humble prayer be a strong factor for good,
in the memory and life of that child. I be-
lieve we should live more with our children
and not so much for them, and I believe we
will profit equally with them in the com-
panionship. One writer thus speaks of chil-
dren:

“These truants from home and from heaven
	They have made me more manly and mild,
And I know now how Jesus could liken,
	The kingdom of God to a child.”

God help us parents all to live aright,
And may our homes all Love and Truth enfold,
Since life for us no loftier aim can hold,
Than leading little children to the light.

				MRS. GEORGIA HATCH.
Metropolis, Nevada, March 17, 1913.


INDUSTRY.

	The following essay was given at a Relief
Society meeting in 1856, by Sister Elizabeth
McLelland.
	I have chosen the subject of “Industry”
to speak upon this evening. Industry,
whether it be hard labor, or the exercise of
the mind, is that by which the great and


good of our sex have been distinguished.
Indeed, it is by the application of this prin-
ciple to their lives that they have become
truly good or truly great. It is said of Jesus
that He went continually about doing good,
hence we see industry was a prominent part
of His character, and no one can truly say
he is a faithful follower of Jesus, unless his
faith is made manifest by his works.
	I can bear testimony myself that when I
have the Spirit of God upon me, I am led
to be industrious, and my pursuits in life
though in a humble sphere, give me much
comfort and happiness. My home, or rather
my husband’s house, is my heaven, and 
when I can make it comfortable and neat,
I feel I am improving my heaven.
	It is in this sphere that the faith of those
of my sex is made manifest, for here are
their works seen.
	And how true it is that by their works
or fruits ye shall know them. No one can
hide himself, for all have their sphere to
act in. And therein will their works make
their character manifest.
	Industry in the domestic circle makes
home happy. And I consider that women
require intelligence to guide their efforts
and direct their energies in their sphere as
much as men. I do not know that I can
express the importance which I feel belongs
to their duties when we take in considera-
tion that the infant soul, mind, and body is
committed to their care, I would ask where
is there greater responsibility? I believe
nowhere. And like all other responsibilities
it requires the constant enjoyment of the
Spirit of God to enable us to discharge our
duty faithfully and acceptably. In this ca-
pacity a woman is president. She is called
to act as a physician and a law-giver to her
little flock or charge. She is all this in con-
nection with her husband.
	By woman’s industry a great deal can be
accomplished in the furtherance of the
works of her husband. If she is faithful
and industrious she lightens his load; bears
part of his burden; anticipates his wants and
is truly what was designed to be a help-
mate. I know by past experience, they can
do a great deal by their industry. Many of
us recollect the second year of our settle-
ment here, how eager we were to raise
crops, but this could not be done without
industry. We had brought with us from
St. Louis two hens; from these we raised
60 chickens. Notwithstanding our scarcity,
this I have not been able to do since, though
we have had plenty. We had four quarts of 
potatoes for seed, and by carefulness and
industry we raised from them, 25 bushels of
potatoes. I know I am not the only one
who could tell similar cases of the effects
of industry.
	I pray God to bless us and enable us to
be industrious, that we may fill the measure
of our creation, that in the end our works
may be done and well done to His accept-
ance, in the name of Jesus. Amen.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		NEBO STAKE.
	Minutes of Nebo Stake Relief Society
conference held Sept. 19, 1913, at Santaquin
ward, President Eliza J. Dixon presiding.
	After the opening exercises by singing,
Henrietta Teitjen, President of Relief So-
ciety of Santaquin ward, gave a loyal wel-

[Column 2]
come to all who came to conference, and
President Dixon responded to the welcome
given.
	A brief report of the work done in the
last year was given by Councilor Martha S.
Kapple.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon of the General
Board, addressed the conference. She espe- 
cially urged the sisters to take more interest
in coming to their meetings and to make
their reports read better every year; spoke
of genealogical work; she made many good
and ecouraging remarks.
	Sister Elizabeth S. Wilcock of the Gen-
eral Board addressed the sisters in her pleas-
ing way; said she had known most all the
presidents and leaders of the Relief Societies
throughout the Church. The mission of the
Relief Society is to build people up and help
them, and to be prayerful; also spoke of the
power of the rPiesthood and how we are
blessed every day of our lives by this su-
preme power.
	Bishop Halliday of Santaquin ward said
these Relief Society conferences always
brought some blessing with them, and the
sisters always bring sunshine with their
presence also spoke of many good things
the Relief Society had done in the Santaquin
ward.
	President Dixon gave a short talk.
	Singing, Lord dismiss us with thy bless- 
ing.
	Benediction, by Lars Ahlien.
	Conference adjourned until 1:30 p. m.

	Conference reconvened at 1:30 p. m.,
President Eliza J. Dixon presiding.
	Singing, Jesus Lover of My Soul.
	Prayer, Bishop Halliday.
	Singing, Count your many blessings.
	Minutes of afternoon session read and
approved.
	Sister Elizabeth S. Wilcox spoke on the
subject “The Little Things That Count.”
She spoke very emphatically on our duty
to our children.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon wished to en-
dorse all that had been said by Sister Wil-
cox, and commented on how the Relief So-
society membership when first organized
numbered only 18 members, and now the
membership is 45,000; spoke very emphat-
ically on Temple work and getting work
done for the dead.
	President Eliza J. Dixon wished that the
Relief Society presidents of each ward
would send a representative to join the
Nurses’ Class of Iinstruction held at Salt
Lake City.
	Clara R. Evans felt to thank the Lord for
the many blessings and was so thankful
that the visiting sisters were here with us
today; she also spoke of the temptations of
our young people.
	Brother Jerman felt well paid for coming
to conference, and wished to assist them in
any way.
	President Dixon thanked the good people

[Column 3]
of Santaquin for their kindness and hospi-
tality, and thanked all who had taken part.
	After benediction, conference adjourned
for three months. 
				ELIZA A. HAWKINS,
						Cor. Sec.


THE STAR OF BETHLEHEM.
Wise men discerned a change among the stars 
	In distant lands they had a wonder seen,
	An orb most luminous had come between
	The shining heavenly worlds, what could it
		mean, 
Its light a-streaming through the heavenly
		bars?

But as they watch the star in brilliance grow,
	It moves, and they, to learn its destiny,
	Prepare to follow where so e’er it be,
	To other lands or far beyond the sea, 
The stranger keep in sight where e’er it go.


O’er Bethlehem the guiding star stands still,
	And there in Mary’s arms they find the
		Child;
	Their hearts o’er fill with rapture wild,
	When kneeling round he on them smiled—
This Babe who came to do his Father’s will.

While shepherds wait without the manger door,
	Lo! Eastern kings make princely offering
	Of precious spices, such as camels bring
	Across the desert, to the new born King— 
Significant the gifts those wise men bore

The royal birth declared by angels’ voice,
	Brought love to all mankind, where e’er
		they be,
	Which thrills our hearts e’en though we may
		not see, 
	The blazing star in earth’s fair canopy,
Nor join the shepherds’ song when they re-
		joice.


Our hearts are touched with pathos of Christ’s 
		word;
	“How oft I would have gathered you,” he
		cried,
	And grieved that they companionship denied,
	Rejecting him and from him turn aside.
As if his pleadings they had never heard.

Yet now his natal day brings songs of love,  
	The Christmas bells with happy, noisy chime,
	Ring down the ages to remotest time
	E’er wakening chords of music most sub-
		lime— 
The song the angels sang in vaults above.
						LYDIA D. ALDER.


THIRTY-FOURTH
ANNUAL ANNOUNCEMENT
			OF
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp’s
	SCHOOL OF NURSING
	AND OBSTETRICS
Beginning October 6, 1913.
	Hours 9 to 12 a.m,
For full particulars communicate with
	ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.,
713 Second Avenue, Salt Lake City, Utah

R K. THOMAS CO.,	67-69 MAIN STREET,
					SALT LAKE CITY
The most becoming Styles in Ladies’
Suits, Coats, Dresses, Skirts, and
Waists at Popular Prices. . . .
THE STORE WHERE YOU CAN FEEL AT HOME


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
	The Organ of the Latter-day Saints’ Woman’s Relief Society.
Vol. 41.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY, 1914		No. 13.


CONTENTS.
To the Relief Society..............................	89
The Nobel Prize Winner.........................	89
A Sketch.................................................	90
Rebecca E. Standring.............................	91
Madame Bernhardt Honored..................	95
Mary E. Leightner...................................	95
Relief Society Reports: Box Elder Stake	95
Madame Davenport, Age 90, Addresses
	Ladies’ Club....................................	96
Editorial:
	President Smith’s Visit to Arizona..	92
	Eliza R. Snow.................................	92
	Sarah E. Russell..............................	92
	Humanity vs. Millinery...................	92
	In Sickness......................................	94
Notes About Women...............................	94
Notes and News......................................	96
Obituary..................................................	96
Poetry:
	Life is Worth the Living.................
	.................Sarah E. Russell (Hope)	89
	Bingen on the Rhine...Lydia D. Alder	95


LIFE IS WORTH THE LIVING.
Oh life is worth  the living, from the cradle to
	the grave,
With all its light and shadow, if the spirit
	is but brave;
For the mystic web it weaveth, touched by
	memory’s magic spell,
Are pictures in soul chambers where the spirit
	loves to dwell.
Oh life is worth the living, for the sunshine
	and the dew,
The diamond dew that sparkles, like a sweet
	thought pure and true,
For the little warbling songbirds—the tree
	tops soaring high,
For the music of the breezes so softly pass-
	ing by.
Oh life is worth the living, for the little
	baby’s smile,
It’s loving touch and prattle, the lingering
	hours beguile;
For the glow and warmth of youth time, life’s
	mystic fairy-land
For the pearls and gems that sparkle along its
	golden strand.
Oh life is worth the life, for fond parental
	love,
Type  of that higher parenthood, in our dear
	home above,
For the silver threads of friendship twining a
	cable strong
For the touch of sweet humanity, in life’s un-
	numbered throng.
Oh life is worth the living, to know God live[-]
	on high,
That the spirit is immortal, and can never
	never die,
To know that His great kingdom, is buil[-]
	upon the Rock,
To stand against the wildest, the tempests’
	fiercest shock.
Oh life is worth the living, for the wrecks
	along the shore.
Where the wild waves dash upon them, and
	the ships return no more;
For they are safely anchored, in the Heaven
	of the blest,
Where the wicked cease from troubling, and
	the weary are at rest.”
			Sarah E. Russell (Hope).


Take joy home, and make a place in thy
great heart for her, and give her time to 
grow, and cherish her. Then will she come, 
and oft will sing to thee when thou art work-
ing in the furrows; aye, or weeding in the
sacred hour of dawn. 
	It is a comely fashion to be glad; joy is
the grace we say to God.—Jean Ingelow.


TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
Beloved Sisters:
	As we are now just entering the New
Year, 1914, it seems an appropriate time,
as it certainly is a pleasant duty, to wish
you a happy and prosperous year, coupled
with the hope that you, with us, will try to
make it the very best year that has ever
yet transpired for the Relief Society, as
well as for ourselves, our families and our
kindred.
	We are keenly sensible of and grateful
for your faithfulness and diligence in the
years that are past. But we also know that
we learn by doing; and we believe that
your past experiences have given you such
knowledge of the work that you are now
better qualified than ever before to attain
to excellence in all that pertains to our
great calling. These experiences qualify
you for improvement, in the greater under-
takings that now loom up before the society.
These are of such value and magnitude
that we cannot afford to let them pass.
Rich opportunities are offered for us to put
forth our best efforts; we are encouraged
to strive for the advancement of all that is
noblest and best, and should exert the
utmost diligence in the wide field of spir-
itual culture, thus making sure of the satis-
faction that comes from ministering to those
in need of kindly deeds and the sweet char-
ity that never faileth. The Savior is our
Pattern and Guide; and if we follow His
example and teaching we cannot fail to
meet with His favor and approbation.
	The education our sisters recieve in the
Relief Society is valuable beyond price. It
embraces many things not taught in col-
leges. We know whereof we speak when
we assert that the Relief Society, even back
in the past long before we had the many ad-
vantages we have at present, was a source
of higher education and benefit to those
who were faithful in its service and in the
duties and obligations connected with it,
than any or all other agencies within their
reach. The Relief Society has given to its
members a lofty sense of honor and a true
conception of the duties pertaining to the
activites of life and its value—all in such
sweet simplicity that every one could com-
prehend, through the spirit of our religion,
pure and undefiled. And we maintain that
no school of philosophy could have taught
so successfully as has our society, the science
of true charity and good fellowship to
women of different nations and different
temperaments, or could have created the
love and union that have existed in the so-
ciety throughout the Church of which our
sisters in this organization are for the most
part faithful members.
	We trust our sisters will not think we in-
dulge in a spirit of boasting. We have no
such thought. But having been acquainted
with the movement for many years, and
having personally known and labored with
all the former leaders who championed
Relief Society work from its very begin-
ing, we feel impressed by the dignity of

[Column 2]
this, the first woman’s organization in the
Church, and would like to awaken those
who are indifferent to its significance as a
school of spiritual and moral advancement.
As the years roll on, still greater achieve-
ments will be reached by those who shall
be identified as members with this society.
We feel perfectly sure that this will come
to pass. The assurance of its solidarity is
the harmony that has existed and does ex-
ist between its members in whatsoever land
they may be, or whence they may have come.
The material growth and enterprise mani-
fested during the past year seem in our esti-
mation to have surpassed the showing of any
year in our history. But we must not be
content with the progress made, we must
strive for more. We must each of us seek
for an increase of faith in our Heavenly
Father, and in the Gospel that has been re-
stored in this day and age. We must be
careful of our example in all that pertains
to our conduct and to our conversation and
lives. We must not only look to the ma-
terial well-being of our own households, but
must see to it that in the manners and cus-
toms of our homes and families we may be
examples worthy of imitation. There is
much to look forward to in the coming year.
Let us never lose sight of the high calling
to which we have been chosen, and set apart.
Let us seek to excell in all the virtues that
pertain to our work in charity, benevolence,
purity and uprightness, in our own lives, in
order that we may worthily seek out the
needy and unfortunate and stand firm
as the “Rock of Ages” for the truths
we have embraced--setting an example in
all things great and small, of which we
never need be ashamed.
	And now, beloved sisters, in closing, accept
this expression of our love and commenda-
tion for the great and good work you have
accomplished, not only in the past year, but
in all the years you have labored. Rest as-
sured that you will in no wise lose your re-
ward. May our Father in Heaven bless you
and yours, and prosper your endeavors in
whatever you undertake in the interest of
the society, and the enlightenment and bene-
fit of those with whom you labor.
“Cast your bread upon the waters, and
it will return after many days.”
				Faithfully yours,
		EMMELINE B. WELLS,
		CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS,
		JULINA L. SMITH.


THE NOBEL PRIZE WINNER.
	The Nobel Prize for literature for 1913
was awarded to Rabindra Nath Tagore, a
Bengali poet. The man thus honored is of
a notable Bengal family, famous both for
wealth and intellectual attainments.
	Born in 1860, Tagore’s first few years of
childhood were spent at Calcutta and in the
vastnesses of the Himalayas. At seventeen
he was sent to England, where he thorough-
ly acquainted himself with the English lan-


[Column 1]
guage and English literature. After return-
ing to the Orient he wrote a great deal for
magazines, but though this work held a
strong fascination for him, his remarkable
versatility early marked him as a poet, and
also showed his powers as an educator and a
philosopher as well as a journalist.
	Tagore’s early poetry shows marked ro-
manticism, probably caused by the influence
of the English romanticists, Byron and
Shelley. This sensualism became so great
in some cases that several of his early works
were discountenanced by the more conserv-
ative Bengali. We are told, and this is
probably one of the causes for his extreme
romanticism, that he returned from Europe
distinctly Epicurean; that he lived, for a
time, sumptuously, in the proverbial Ori-
ental magnificence, until the awakening of
his riper, greater powers revoked the sen-
sualist and called forth the higher spirit-
ualist.
	Tagore’s poetry, unlike the works of other
Oriental philosophers in his conception of
the Deity and Eternal love, is still more un-
like the works of any European or Amer-
ican poet. The lyric beauty and utter in-
dividuality of some of his lines reminds one
somewhat of our own Walt Whitman. But 
such high-mindedness, such grace and 
majesty, we find more suggestive of the
works of Dante and Milton. It may be re-
marked here, that judging from the sketches 
and paintings of Tagore, his face bears no
little resemblance to that of the great Italian
master, Dante.
	He is a born poet; a study of his lines re-
veals deep, meditative serenity. His words
are delicate and expressive with a charming
abundance of suggestiveness. His deep pa-
triotism is shown in these lines:
	“To thee, my motherland, I dedicate my
body, for thee I consecrate my life, for thee
my eyes will weep, and in thy praise my
music will sing.
	“Though my arms are helpless and power-
less, still they will do the deeds that can
only serve thy cause; and though my 
sword is rusty with disgrace, still it shall
sever thy chains of bondage sweet mother
of mine.”
	The MacMillan company has recently
published the works of Rabindra Nath Ta-
gore. These include “Gitanjali” (Song
Offerings), a collection of prose translations
made by the author from the original Ben-
gali; “The Gardener” (Poems of Youth) ;
“The Crescent Moon” (Child Poems); and
“Sadhana: The Realization of Life,” a vol-
ume of essays.
	In the following selections from the
Gitanjali we note a Psalm-like dignity, a
rich majesty suggestive of that other Ori-
ental poet, Omar Khayyam, a hint that
these works may be the key that shall un-
lock untold treasures of unwritten Oriental 
literature:

“ *	*	* The onrolling flood of the love
	eternal
Hath at last found its perfect final course.
All the joys and sorrows and longings of the
	heart, 
All the memories of the moments of ecstasy,
All the love lyrics of poets of all climes and
	times
Have come from thee everywhere
And gathered in one single love at thy feet.”
	“Where the mind is without fear and the
head is held high; 
	“Where knowledge is free;

[Column 2]
	“Where the world has not been broken up
into fragments by narrow domestic walls; 
	“Where words come out from the depth of
truth; 
	“Where tireless striving stretches its arms
toward perfection; 
	“Where the clear stream of reason has not 
lost its way into the dreary desert sand of dead
habit; 
	“Where the mind is led forward by thee into
everwidening thought and action—
	“Into that heaven of freedom, my Father, let
my country awake”
							—C. W. C.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			A SKETCH.
	[The following article was read by the
author before the Utah Woman’s Press
Club, Jan. 7, and by unanimous resolution
of the members present, its publication was
requested in this issue of the EXPONENT.]

	The maples on the mountain sides are
turning golden, the great Artist of the sea-
sons is arraying in a carnival of colors the
landscapes for their autumn holidays, be-
fore they shall be clothed in their winter
robes of snow.
	And this calls to mind the maples of far
away on the rugged, ocean-voiced coast of
the Atlantic, where lie the New England
States, where Prophet and Patriarch, also
many of the first born of the Gospel of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, were born and
baptized into His Church.
	There, on February 29th, 1828, at Peters-
ham, Worcester County, Massachusetts,
was born Emmeline B. Wells, the subject
of this sketch, amid the grandeur of ocean
and mountain scenes, amid the environ-
ments of patriotism, religious influences,
cultured associations, hereditary endow-
ments and highest ideals of home and wom-
anhood.
	With her spiritual eyes fixed upon the ex-
emplers of her progenitors, and the awak-
ening of new ideals possible in the near fu-
ture, grew to maidenhood this gleaner of
sheaves of knowledge, which should become
her principal and bear interest of intellec-
tual riches and influence in the years to
come; also a queenly place and power in the
kingdom yet to be; that kingdom yet a
dream of the future to all earth’s wisest
scholars and worshippers; a hope and dream,
to all the world, save to the youthful
Prophet—Joseph Smith.
	It was in July, 1859, that I first met Sister
Emmeline B. Wells, at the old Wells House
where the Templeton now stands. At that
time I had no idea that the introduction
meant a future acquaintance and associa-
tion; it seemed merely a social formality,
for in the days when I was a young lady,
such as I, were supposed to profit by listen-
ing to the conversations of their elders.
However, having been acquainted with a
mutual friend, Mrs. Ellen McGary, first in
San Bernardino, California, and later in
Beaver, Utah, who had often spoken of her
old friend Emmeline, her personality, and
abilities, I felt somewhat acquainted, even
at the respectful distance I occupied. So
several years passed by and although I be-
came better acquainted with some of the
daughters of General D. H. Wells, and
their mothers, it was not until Sister Emme-
line B. Wells was called to occupy the edi-
torial chair of the WOMAN’S EXPONENT
that I was drawn nearer to her through my .
labors as secretary of the Y. L. M. I. A.,

[Column 2]
Relief Society, and the semi-monthly meet-
ings in the Fourteenth Ward, and an occa-
sional contribution to the WOMAN’S EXPO-
NENT. 
	From the beginning of our acquaintance
(after it became such) I have felt a partic-
ular special attraction in her personality, her
face and figure (I’ve never seen a photo-
graph or a painted portrait that did her jus-
tice), her type of mind, practical versatility,
her fund of information and her history
with the Church; but—all of these not ex-
pressing certain qualities which make the
woman, I mean as she is to me personally,
I can sum it up best thus: It’s the New
England of it. You may study and under-
stand it, if you are New England born (as
I was: in Boston).
	No matter where you were born, dear
reader, you know that the spirit of your
native land still claims its kinship with you
wherever else you may hereafter dwell, or
what cause you may espouse; and though
the Gospel makes of us all strangers hereto-
fore, one family of one Father.
	When I heard of the accession of Emme-
line B. Wells to the presidency of the Relief
Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, throughout the world, I
said: That is as it should be. There is no
one else so well qualified to fill that posi-
tion. Sister Wells has been with the Relief
Society as member and later as secretary
(you might say historian) through its up-
ward growth till she knows every branch of
its genealogical tree, and all the fruits it
has borne; she could give you the figures.
	Was she not beside “Aunt Eliza,” “Aunt
Zina,” and “Sister Bathsheba,” ever ready
with her invaluable aid? Did they not know
her thoroughly, her reliability and accuracy
in every detail? Her promptness to serve
and rejoice in serving? And did they not
love her? Did she not share the exodus
with them and bury her dead as they did,
outside their beloved Nauvoo, and traverse
with them that memorable march from civ-
ilization to the shores of the Dead Sea of
America? Fitting it is, that Emmeline B.
Wells should unveil the Sea Gull Monu-
ment, for she was here when they, the
heaven-sent birds, halted the impending
famine.
	Has she not, through the WOMAN’S EX-
PONENT, given voice to her sisters and kept
record of their progress?
	Though her ideal in journalism would
have been a magazine of high character, she
has faithfully labored with the lesser publi-
cation because it was needed, and the “sis-
ters’” resources were limited to this at the
present.
	Some of America’s great men have been
compared to the “mighty oak,” “the tower-
ing pine,” etc.
	Because Emmeline B. Wells was New
England born, and because she was born in
Massachusetts, where, in the days of her
girlhood, the sugar maple was perhaps of
more importance than any other tree (to
the mothers), in my own heart I select the
sugar maple as her emblem. Is it not ap-
propriate?
	Did it not give the sweetening that was
needed to the Puritan housewives? And it
was not passed under government inspec-
tion to prove its purity; and who cared then
what other countries made sugar, or if they
made it cheaper and wanted to send it here


on the “free list” and upset all our home
sugar factories?
	No, each neighbor owned his own sugar
plant on his own farm, and had his “sugar
making” time undisturbed and unlimited in
supply, and what an occasion sugar making
was, and what other sugar or syrup can
taste better? It needed no protecting “trade
mark,” the color and the odor verified its
individuality among the sweets.
	What other tree has such autumn leaves,
that everyone wants to gather and press,
and keep, or to decorate the home with, as
the sugar maple? Of course, other states,
north and south, have the sugar maple, but
it is of the trees of her state and herself that
I am writing.
	Sweetness from its heart in the early
spring time (She was born just before those
camp fires in the woods were lighted, and
men and maidens bore the wooden buckets
of maple sap to the huge kettles that were
kept boiling day and night.)
	Wealth of color and beauty in its falling
leaves in autumn, its latest gift to rich and
poor alike, it is like her. Has she not given
the sweetness of her best years and now, in
the autumn of her life, are not her leaflets
of thought bright and treasured?
	O you artists of gloomy canyons, torrid
deserts, ocean sunsets and moonlights, and
every other kind of picture—who has ever,
who is going to immortalize himself by a
picture of a ‘sugar camp” among the maple
trees and the nut trees, while the snow may
still be seen in the untrampled background?
It is one of America’s chief assets, and dear
to so many hearts. There are the mighty,
protecting forest branches overhead, the fire
lights and the faces, the industry itself with-
out the beauty? destroying smoke stacks and
noise of the machinery, in the primeval for-
est.
	It is grand to have been born there, and
of those ancestors. Blended in her fragile
women is the heritage of those men and
women who counted no sacrifice as too
great for religious and political freedom;
who had braved the rigors of climate, the
Indians and the perils of the Atlantic coast,
for the lives of those who went down to
the sea in ships has been closely interwoven
through the character of all who dwelt in
the New England States.
	Why, then, should she not be the woman
that she is, with the Gospel to lead her? 
	Who among us, though, is better pre-
pared like her, to meet the representative
women of the world, no matter what their
great work or station?
	Emmeline B. Wells, as ambassadress of
the women of Zion, would be bearer of
credentials, the highest that could be be-
stowed, because she is in the service, not of
any earthly potentate, but in the service of
the Church and kingdom of our Father and
His Son Jesus Christ. 
	May her example be a stimulus to the
daughters of Zion to attain unto the call of
the future to each and every one of us in
our place and calling; and may her pres-
ence be among us still for many years to
come.
	With love and respect,
		Your Sister in the Gospel,
		AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
	Erda, Oct. 4th, 1913.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
REBECCA E. STANDRING.
	On Friday, the 19th of December, oc-
curred the death of Sister Rebecca E.
Standring, one of the staunch and devoted
women of the Relief Society. While for
some time past Sister Standring has not
been in good health, it was only a month
before her death that she was honorably
released from the position of President of
Alpone Stake Relief Society.
	Sister Standring was born February 20,
1828, at Northampton, England. She was
the daughter of William and Charlotte Ford
Smith, one of eleven children, two brothers
and two sisters now living. She joined the
Church in February, 1851, and emigrated to
America four years later, remaining in New
York and Dayton, Ohio, two years before
coming to Salt Lake City, where she ar-
rived in September, 1857. At the time of
the “move” she went to Springville, and in
1859 was married to Edwin Standring at
Lehi where she has ever since lived.
	At this time Sister Standring became
quite a leader among her associates both in
religious and social circles. She was a mem-
ber of the Lehi choir and the first lady
teacher in the Sunday school of that ward, a
position which she faithfully filled for thirty
years. She was a member of the Home
Dramatic Club and in many roles displayed
marked ability. For ten years Sister
Standring was secretary of the Lehi ward
Relief Society, and in 1879 became ward
president. At the organization of the Al-
pine stake 1901, Sister Standring was elec-
ted to be stake president of the Relief So-
ciety, in which position she was most effi-
cient and much beloved. When the Relief
Society was incorporated in 1891, Sister
Standring was elected on the direstorate and
served in that position until 1901. She at-
tended the business meetings of that body
at her own expense most faithfully, and was
considered a valuable member of the general
board both on account of her good counsel
and executive ability, but owing to the more
frequent meetings and the many calls for
the members she with others living at dis-
tances, were released. She gave her time
and service to the Lord’s work, and was one
of the most devoted, and untiring laborers
in the Relief Society cause. She has worked
for the living and the dead in the St.
George, Manti and Salt Lake temples. Sis-
ter Standring was not blessed with children
of her own, yet she had been a devoted
mother to her adopted children. Many will
always remember her and cherish that mem-
ory in their hearts.
	Her call to labor in higher fields and her
release from earthly chains came at the ad-
vanced age of nearly 86 years after a long
life of loving. The associate members of the
Alpine Stake Relief Society Board pay the
following beautiful tribute.
	During the past twelve years that we have
been working together as a Board, she has
been the guiding spirit of the almost num-
berless efforts for the advancement of the
Sisters in the Alpine Stake. Has she ever
failed in doing her part? ask those with
whom she has labored. Ask those who
have heard her voice raised in defense of 
truth; and prayer to God. We cannot for-
get that she has set before us the noble ex-

[Column 2]
ample of a pure and blameless life, and has
guided her throne with all womanly virtues.
She has shown her excellency in her public
duties, in her religion, and in the advance- 
ment of woman kind. She has on many oc-
casions inspired us to put forth our utmost
efforts to live a nobler and purer life. What-
ever is best in womanhood is exemplified in
her life. We will remember her best for
those qualities which every woman can pos-
sess. It is what one does and what one
really is that counts in the end. The long
and beautiful life of our Dear President,
will ever be a living example for all the sis-
ters who knew her in this Stake of Zion. Her
genuine good qualities, her devotedness to
duty, and her noble example, will be as a
beacon light to us all. No more fitting
words of her life could be quoted than is
expressed in one of the proverbs, "She has
stretched out her hand to the poor, yea
she has reached forth her hand to the needy,
she has opened her mouth with wisdom,
and in her tongue was the law of kind-
ness, she looked well after the ways of her
household, and ate not the bread of the 
idler.
	We, her sisters are delighted to honor
her and her memory for ever. On account
of ill health she was released as President
of the Alpine Stake Relief Society by
the sisters at a conference held at the Amer-
ican Fork First Ward, October 19, 1913.
And was officially released at a quarterly
conference held at Lehi, October 26, 1913.
She passed from this life December 19.
1913, at the age of eighty-five years, nine
months, and twenty-nine days. She leaves
two adopted children, Alice Standring 
Royle, and John Standring. A whole com-
munity and a large circle of friends to
mourn her loss. She died as she had lived, 
a true and stalwart, faithful, Latter-day
Saint. 
	Sister Standring’s funeral was held
Monday December 22, of which event, Mrs.
Julia P. M. Farnsworth furnishes the fol-
lowing:
	Sisters Cannon and Julia P. M. Farns-
worth were appointed by President Wells,
to go to Lehi and attend the funeral of
Mrs. Rebecca Standring, and represent the
General Board. The services were held
in the Lehi tabernacle, and conducted by
Bishop J. H. Gardner of the Second Ward. 
	The singing of the choir was beautiful,
and appropriate. Mrs. Clifford Young and
Mrs. F. F. Kirkham gave solos. There
were many lovely flowers. The speakers
were, President James H. Clark and Able
John Evans of the Alpine Stake presidency,
T. R. Cutler for many years, bishop of
Lehi, Mrs. S. L. Chipman counselor of
Sister Standring read a fine sketch of
Mrs. Standring’s life.
	The building was well filled, and all who
addressed the meeting testified of the noble
life work of Sister Rebecca Standring;
Mrs. Cannon spoke of working with her in
the Salt Lake temple and on the General
Board; Mrs. Farnsworth spoke of her
womanly qualities, as a home maker and
gentle woman, as an efficient director and of
the love and high esteem in which she was
held by our president, Sister Wells and all
her associates, William Southwick, a life
long friend dedicated the grave.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH	-	JANUARY, 1914


HUMANITY VS. MILLINERY.
	To “my lady” who decks her hat in gay
plumage, the following interesting paper on
the above subject, given by Miss Linda
Jessup of this city at a recent gathering of
fashionable women, will be somewhat in-
structive in fact, the subject will doubtless
be of interest and information to all women,
for while Miss Jessup handles the matter of
birds and their plumage for adornment, in
a somewhat humorous vein, yet she does not
fail to show the seriousness of the matter
as well. It is to be hoped that the women
who desire moderation in all things and can
wield an influence for good among their
kind, will heed the lesson taught by the
perusal of this article and use it for hu-
manity’s sake:
	“We have admired and then copied our
distant cousins, living closer to nature than
we, who with the daring of the simple life
appeared at the great ceremonials clad in
nature’s true garments, their birthday
clothes, but topped always by a magnificent
headdress. Not to be outclassed we have
wares that engulf us of Pocohontas trim-
mings, a Zulu top feather, a Navajo war
bonnet, or Black Hawk feather piece.
	“If by some great act of misfortune one
of our number found herself alone on Bird
island, foodless, clotheless, bonnetless, even
as the Indian woman of early tradition,
whom the histories tell us was found on one
of the Santa Barbara channel islands after
a desertion of twenty years, her modern
sister’s ability to fashion a garment from


[Column 1]
birds’ feathers, a needle from a slender
bone, and food from the same source, would
be consistent and applauded around the
world, with a contract drawn for a series
of moving pictures. But only a few of us
can be candidates for a Crusoe existence.
	“We do, however, crave the coverings
that nature has given the natural inhabi-
tants of the Bird islands, and do not scruple
to use every means to transfer that covering
from their bodies for our personal adorn-
ment. If it were only bad for the com-
plexion or caused horrid lines and blemishes
to wear dead birds, like so many scalps,
there might then be an immediate remedy
for this wretched fashion, but the aigrette
is beautiful and becoming in its airy grace,
and so the massacre goes on, or rather, this
statement should be qualified and used in
the past tense. In the passage of the
plumage bill that is a part of the new tariff
law, the ornithologists, agriculturists, scien-
tists and friends in general of the birds with
bright or dull plumage sincerely hope they
see the beginning of the end, but, as our
state game commissioner says all new laws
have to be tried out, it is still too early in
its passage to have noted great results. We
have incurred the wrath of incoming trav-
elers, who, through ignorance of the new
law, or otherwise, have failed to declare
those delicate bits of adornment—the
aigrettes. One opera singer screamed out
her wrath when ordered to give up $1,000
in aigrettes that she had brought to this
country for stage purposes, and was loud in
her denunciation of this free land, suggest-
ing to the custom inspectors that the Statute
of Liberty be removed from its pedestal.
This new law reads:
	“ ‘Aigrettes or other bird plumage, whose
importation is forbidden by the new tariff
law, must be removed from the hats of in-
coming travelers and turned over to the
custom authorities before the travelers
leave the wharf. Secretary McAdoo today
so ruled because of reports that an aigrette
had been snatched from the hat of a woman
at New York.’
	“ ‘That the importation of aigrettes, egret
plumes or ‘osprey’ plumes, and the feathers,
quills, heads, wings, tails, skins or parts of
skins of wild birds, either raw or manu-
factured and not for scientific or educational
purposes, is hereby prohibited ; but this pro-
vision shall not apply to the feathers or
plumes of ostriches, or to the feathers of
domestic fowls of any kind.’ Think what
it will mean for the whole of the United
States by only six lines of national law to
end the disgraceful bird slaughter that is
going on in response to the demands of the
traders in American fashions.
	“Our dictators of fashion declare three
feet of lonesome trimming dangling from
the rear of our head coverings the correct
style for winter, and, with the assurance of
the feminine, we accept the crazy style, ap-
pearing in the street, in places of worship,
the ballroom, yea, even in Mr. Harriman’s
autos, do we assist those public servants in
polishing spots in the car windows. Truly
our sympathy goes out to the long suffering
individual in the crowded car, on being
sweetly addressed by the lady standing in
front of him, with, ‘Does my feather annoy
you,’ This after frequent punctures over
his countenance and a pair of inflamed eyes.
‘O no madam, I cut it off ten minutes ago.’
	“There will come a certain reaction, and
the season of 1914 may find the demure

[Column 2]
Quaker bonnet or even the calico sunbonnet
minus even the tail feathers from the barn-
yard fowl. A little extract from a paper
read at the annual convention of the New
York state federation by Mrs. May Riley
Smith will give a slight idea of the obstinacy
with which the gentle sex has fought against
every advancement by those hoping to save
the remnant of bird life. Extract: ‘Have
you read and did you shiver as we did over
the action of the forestry committee of
women in St. Louis, to whom the state fed-
eration referred the audubon pledge? Utter-
ly blind to, and apparently ignorant of the
economic relations between the insect, the
bird and the tree, which it is supposed to be
the object of a forestry committee to pre-
serve, the secretary civilly remarked: ‘I
must refuse to subscribe to that sort of
thing, because if I want to wear an aigrette
I shall certainly do so, and my conscience
won’t hurt me a particle.’ And the chair-
man agreed that ‘We must refuse to ad-
vocate the pledge, for I intend to wear one
of those very things on my hat.’ And the
newspapers that chronicled this decision
added: ‘The clubwomen of St. Louis will
not uphold the forestry committee in this
action.’
	“It is the manner of this decision, the
defiance of public sentiment by women that
hurts most in this occurrence. It was a
happy moment to turn to the delightful re-
port of ‘The Bird Masque’ given the latter
part of the summer in New Hampshire near
President Wilson’s summer home. Great
interest was aroused, not alone because of
the interest and principal parts taken by the
President’s daughters, but the beauty of the
play, its settings, out of doors and the pop-
ularity of its author, Percy Mackaye.
	“The case is far more serious than the
world at large suspects. But for the profits
the birds would be unmolested, and no un-
protected wild species can long escape the
demands of commerce. From the trackless
jungles of New Guinea, round the world
both ways, to the snow-capped peaks of the
Andes no unprotected bird is safe. Amer-
ca’s share in the destruction of the birds
for adornment purposes is 150,000,000—
Europe the same, and England 30,000,000
yearly. Millions each year!
	“Do you not marvel that Uncle Sam sat so
comfortably in his big arm chair with a bird
on one arm (and we, as a nation, not even
holding that bird sacred), complacently
waving the stars and stripes with the other
hand over his almost birdless fields? The
brilliancy of the plumage or the brightness
of the song does not argue that the feath-
ered creature is useless.
	“One pair of rose breasted grosbeaks can,
in a week, destroy all of the potato bugs on
an acre of potatoes and then keep the vines
clean for an entire season.
	“Whereas, two boys with a bucket of
paris green at a salary of one cent for every
hundred slain bugs, cannot even approxi-
mate that record. Chemistry has brought
its past breakers to great proficiency, but the
insects continue to work too insidiously and
too quickly for man adequately to cope with
them. It is for you to remember, when you
come to select your new hat, that the insect
rises as the bird falls; $200,000,000 losses
to agricultural interest is the record of the
insects in the United States, and this does
not include damage done to ornamental
shrubbery, shade and forest trees.
	“The robin has also been marked for

[Column 3]
wholesale slaughter. One small town in
Tennessee sends each year to the market
enough to bring in $500, with the price at
5 cents a dozen—125,000 robins. The fact
that a particular bird is not wanted for the
time being, is no proof of its safety. As in
the case of the grebe, it may suddenly be
declared fashionable, and the grebe was
killed off by the thousands around the lakes
in Oregon.
	“Some birds are brought into the market
as an experiment. They are killed, not be-
cause there is a demand for them, but on the
chance that the demand may be created
This shows the danger in which every spe-
cies of finely plumaged bird stands until
legislation interferes. The question that
thousands of working people would be
thrown out of employment if the fancy
feather trade were taken from them has no
foundation.
	“This material gives less labor to the
working class than probably any other kind
of trimming that could be or would be em-
ployed in its place. The profit does not go
to pay the wages of a large number of
hands. It goes to the few firms who con-
duct the business. When the wild birds can
no longer be obtained, ostrich and poultry
feathers remain, and there can be no doubt
that the use of artificial flowers and berries
and of ribbon and fancy ornaments would
increase and give more employment in the
labor market than is now given by the wild
bird plumage. Mr. McClain, in his speech
before the senate in August, refers to the
persistency with which the milliners’ asso-
ciation circulated the idea of the artificial
osprey or egret plume. The feathers were
no longer to be labeled real. Assistants were
instructed to assure lady customers that
these delicate sprays were manufactured by
the millions out of quills, horse hair, and
other material, by an army of workers who
earned their living by this pleasant and ar-
tistic work.
	“The fraud flourished until 1908, when it
became evident that the force of mere repe-
tition which had proved so successful with
an uncritical public would not stand investi-
gation before a serious tribunal.
	“The invention of artificial ospreys was
discarded for that of molted feathers. The
sprays were admitted to be real, but it was
no longer cruel to wear real plumes. They
had simply been picked out of the nests
after the birds had raised their young and
left them. That is a myth. A few torn,
badly frayed plumes are occasionallly picked
up from the swampy breeding grounds that
have been shed after nesting, but these are
too poor to command any price. These
plumes or aigrettes are in effect the mar-
riage wing of the snowy heron, or egret.
They are sometimes called ‘the love feathers’
of the birds. The story of the aigrette trade
deals with the slaughter of the innocents by
the slow process of starvation, a method
which history shows has never been followed
by even the most savage race of men deal-
ing with their most hated enemies.
	“This war of extermination which has
been carried forward unchecked for years
could mean but one thing, namely, the rapid
disappearance of the egrets of the United
States. As nesting birds they have disap-
peared from New Jersey, Maryland, Vir-
ginia and also those states of the Mississippi
valley where at one time they were to be
found in great numbers. The efforts for the 
preservation of the egrets and herons are


[Column 1]
now being pushed with greater vigor than
ever before. These aigrettes, torn from the
back of the bird during the nesting season
only, now sell for twice their weight in gold.
From $32 to $80 an ounce. Remember, one
aigrette costs five lives—the mother bird
and the four nestlings. Robbing hen
roosts grades as a respectable occupation
compared with plume hunting. One
commercial plume hunter boasted of hav-
ing killed 125,000 birds. All the collec-
tions in this country, caged and stuffed, do
not count as many skins as are sold for mil-
linery in one London auction, and there are
several auctions in a year. The imports of
millinery feathers to this country alone are
valued at $11,000,000, while the valuation of
the diamond imports at the last census was
about $12,000,000.
	“In the southern part of our country a
few years ago there must have been 500
varieties of our daintiest bits of animate
feathered life, the humming bird. Only a
few varieties are seen now. Many winter in
Cuba or Mexico and along our western
coast. In Cuba, as well as in the United
States, the humming birds have been killed
off by the thousands to swell the London
feather trade. They sell from a fraction of
a cent to 2 cents apiece, and some unfortu-
nate with $10,000 too much money for his
own good paid that price recently in Paris
for a cloak made of humming-bird skins.
	“The King of the Cannibal Isles who re-
quested that humming birds’ tongues on
toast be served him for breakfast had noth-
ing over the wearer of the cloak. The an-
cient Mexicans looked upon the humming
bird as emblems of the soul, as the Greeks
did the butterfly, and held that the spirits
of their warriors who had died in defense
of their religion were transformed into these
most brilliant of living creatures, and yet
in later years these birds were marked out
for such slaughter. In Oregon only a short
time ago there were more Chinese pheasants
than there were in China itself, and yet in
Oregon recently 50,000 of these pheasants
were killed in a single day. The hunter has
pronounced the doom of the woodchuck,
and the milliner has sentenced the bluebird.
The passenger pigeon, once so plentiful, is
now absolutely extinct. If the rumor that
an Oregon university professor has discov-
ered the nesting places of a group of these
birds in her state be true, there will be great
rejoicing. The one live specimen in the Cin-
cinnati zoo died last summer. They used to
be butchered in their breeding places by the
wagon loads. It afforded plumage and
made rare sport.
	“On the Bahama islands and in Florida
were formerly large rookeries of the flamin-
go which are now nearly extinct, and great
numbers of the white ibis, which shared in
the popularity of its delicate plumage with
the egret.
	“If only we had had sufficient sentiment
to hold this bird sacred as the early Egyp-
tions did! Two thousand years ago it was
to commit murder to kill one of these birds
in Egypt. They symbolized the soul of a
departed.
	“This superstition of the Egyptians was
so strong that burial grounds were laid out
for the ibis, their bodies were embalmed,
wrapped in costly wrappings and placed in
pottery coffins. The jackal shared in the
reverence with the bird, as he was delegated
to accompany the soul of the departed on its
journey across the great desert to the final

[Column 2]
oasis, the jackal being the only creature
capable of finding its way across that great
trackless plain. Before the ibis and the
jackal start out across the desert, the soul
of the departed is weighed against an os-
trich feather, and if not found wanting in
the balance he is permitted to start on his
hunt for the oasis.
	“The government of India made the ex-
port of skins and plumes from India illegal,
and yet naturalists and others interested in
the matter saw that in spite of this prohibi-
tion the feathers of the birds peculiar to the
East Indies continued to be offered for sale
in London.
	“It was then learned that many cases were
imported as cow hair or horse hair, a layer
of horse hair covering perhaps thousands
of skins.
	“Yet back of the feather merchant and
plume hunter, who supply the skins, are the
men who make a fashion for women and
then impose it upon them subtly, irresistibly
	“The rebellion of Audubonists against
wanton waste of the prettiest thing in nature
ought to begin, it would seem, not in the
rookeries, not in boudoirs, not in milliners’
shops, not in feather dealers’ warehouses,
but in those lofts in Paris where modes of
headgear are designed and, by authority
more autocratic than a czar’s, more respect-
ed than a pope’s, are enjoined upon a civil-
ized woman as ‘the latest things.’
	“Who did kill Cock Robin?	Nobody
clamors for the distinction:
		“‘Not I,’ said the plumer,	
		‘It’s nothing but rumor.’
		‘Not I,’ said the birdman,
		‘I’m half brother to Pan.’
		‘Not I,’ said the seller,
		‘It’s some brutal feller.”
		‘Not I,’ said the hatter,
		‘See Paris in the matter.’
		‘Not I,’ said the cat,
		‘Would I ever do that?’
		‘Not I’ said the collector,
		‘I’m partly protector.’
		‘Not I,’ said the dame,
		‘’Twas dead when it came.’”


PRESIDENT SMITH’S VISIT TO ARI-
			ZONA.
	The recent visit of President Smith and
party to the stakes in Arizona was a most
delightful occasion to the people of that part
of Zion. One purpose of the visit was the
dedication of the twin chapels at Mesa, but
many other matters of interest were at-
tended to.
	There are many of the Saints who were
forced to leave their homes in Mexico
among the people visited and to them the
wise counsel and comforting words of their
loved leader was much appreciated. A most
touching and beautiful incident of the trip
was when seventy-five children passed in
line and each one presented the President
with a rose—one for each year of his life
—one little girl saying, “for our dear
Prophet, because we love you.”
	Accompanying President Smith were
Mrs. Smith and two of the President’s
daughters, President Anthon H. Lund, Pre-
siding Bishop C. W. Nibley and Mrs. Nib-
ley, and Elder George A. Smith of the
Council of the Twelve. Later the party
was joined by President Francis M. Lyman
and Elder Joseph F. Smith, Jr., of the
Council of the Twelve, and Superintendent
Horace Cummings of the Church schools.
	The visit of the Church authorities was
a rare treat to the Saints in Arizona and
one long to be remembered. The assem-
blies both at stake conferences and schools
were so large that many could not gain en-
trance. That much good will accrue from
this visit is certain.


ELIZA R. SNOW.
	On the 21st of the current month occurs
the 110th anniversary of the birth of that
great and honored woman, Eliza Roxy
Snow Smith. She was a peer among women,
and as a leader of the women of Zion may
her name be ever remembered.
	Like Miriam of old she cheered the wan-
dering children of God with songs along the
dreary journeying way and lent aid, com-
fort and counsel to the faint-hearted and
the weary.
	With great fortitude and mastery of self
she forsook bright prospects of literary and
social attainments, and cast her lot with a
people persecuted because of their faith.
Yet in the hearts of that people she found a
place of refuge. Her hymns sung in the con-


gregations of the Saints have immortalized
her name among the younger generations,
still we do not forget that her greatest work
was achieved, not so much through the ex-
ercise of her loved gift as in the broader
field of organization. From north to south,
from east to west, she traveled; not in the
ease of Pullman cars, as we today may go,
but in all kinds of vehicles and every kind
of weather, organizing branches of the Re-
lief Society, and teaching words of truth and
wisdom to the women of Zion.
	The women of the Relief Society should
sometimes recall the names and works of
those great women of the past to whom so
much is due.


[Column 1]
		SARAH E. RUSSELL.
	The harvest of the Great Reaper this
past year o’erflows with names of the great
and worthy. With sighs and tears we scan
the long roll, noting here and there a friend
and co-laborer in the great work of the
kingdom of God. It may be in different
lines, some as educators, some ministers,
some social service workers, others writers
and poets and among the last, we read the
name of Sarah E. Russell known to the
many readers of the Exponent as “Hope.”
Her beautiful poems have graced the pages
of this paper for many years and like the
soul of the author, breathe simplicity, hu-
mility, love, forbearance, charity and faith.
	The many friends of Miss Russell were
shocked to learn of her demise which oc-
curred Sunday the 28th of December, at
3 o’clock in Tucson, Arizona. One thing
which makes the death seem particularly
sad is the fact that in all probability, Miss
Russell was one of the victims of the Mexi-
can exodus. She, with her family were
very reluctant to leave their homes in Mex-
ico and notwithstanding the many and ur-
gent requests from friends and relatives in
Utah to give up their Mexican holdings
and come back they positively refused to
leave until forced to do so by the Mexican
outrages, only then going into Arizona with
full purpose of returning to Mexico when
conditions became more settled.
	Sarah E. Russell was the daughter of
Isaac and Mary Walton Russell, and was
born at Far West, Missouri, Aug. 12, 1840.
The family of Isaac Russell, with those of
John Taylor and Joseph Fielding, were con-
verted to the Church by Parley P. Pratt, in
the spring of 1836. John Taylor met Parley
P. Pratt at the home of Isabella Russell
Walton a sister of Isaac R. Russell, in Tor-
onto, and later, Mrs. Walton took Elder
Pratt to her brother Isaac, who resided on
his farm at Charletton’s settlement, now
Downsview, a few miles northwest of Tor-
onto. Isaac Russell and Joseph Fielding
owned adjoining farms in this village. They
both joined the Church under the ministry
of Elder Pratt, and were among the first
missionaries to Great Britain in the follow-
ing year, 1837, when the British mission
was opened at Preston, where Joseph Field-
ing had relatives. The first public sermon
in England was preached at the Cockpit at
Preston in July on the first Sunday after the
arrival of the elders in Great Britain. The
first baptisms were performed in the river
Ribble at Preston. Many converts were
made, and the Church was established in
the British Isles.

[Column 2]
	Isaac Russell’s family resided at Kirtland
during his absence and upon his return,
joined the Saints at Far West, where Sarah
E. Russell was born. The father died at
Richmond, Missouri, in 1884, at the age of
39, leaving his widow, Mary Walton and
six young children. The family remained
at Richmond until 1861, when they came
to Utah and settled in the Fifteenth ward of
Salt Lake City, where Sarah E. Russell
formed many, dear and lasting friendships.
In 1882, Miss. Russell accompanied her
younger sister, Isabella M. Johnson, to
Mesa, Arizona, and thence to Mexico. They
were residing in the valley of Chuichupa,
when the present revolution in Mexico com-
pelled them to abandon their homes, and they
came as refugees into Arizona, where they
have since resided.
	Sarah E. Russell is survived by her
youngest sister Isabelle M. Johnson, who
was with her at the hour of her death and
had been her inseparable companion in life;
and by the children of her deceased broth-
ers and sisters, George W. Russell, Mary
W. Gray, Samuel Russell and Ann Jane
Howley.
	It is the regret of her many friends in
this city that they have been separated
from her in the latter years of her life and
they could not be near her in the hour of
her departure. To them she will be of hal-
lowed memory.
	The last poem written by Miss Russell
(Hope) for the Exponent was descriptive
of the condition of the Mexican refugees
and most pathetic, however, one of her
most inspired poems we think is the one
on the front page of the present number,
which we reprint from an early paper so
like it is to her, whom we now mourn.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN SICKNESS.
	It is quite surprising how few young
women avail themselves of the opportunity
to learn anything about the care of the sick
and yet most of them expect to become
mothers and have the care and training of
little children. Probably ignorance has been
the cause of more suffering and death among
children than disease, and in this day there
is little excuse for such ignorance. Nearly
all the magazines contain articles for young
mothers and from the last number of
“Woman’s Magazine’’ we cull a few instruc-
tions prepared by a trained nurse. She
writes:
	“The dangers of contagious disease are
much increased by possible complications
and the serious effects that often follow. 
The early symptoms of many contagious dis- 
eases are those of a common cold and people
are thus exposed unawares. Children should
be taught never to kiss persons suffering
from colds, never to use the handkerchief
of another nor to drink from a common cup
or glass.
	“Should a child succumb to contagion,
isolate it in a large, well ventilated room,
free from draughts and accessible to sun-
shine, place the bed out in the room shaded


from strong lights and facing away from the
window.
	“Chicken pox appears about two weeks
after exposure, usually with slight fever.
There is an eruption within the first twenty-
four hours of crops of reddish pimples,
thickest on the back, which become blisters
in a day or so and scale off in a week.
	“Keep the child quiet in bed on a light
diet while the fever lasts and isolated until
the last scale has fallen. Inflamed eyes,
which often accompany this disease as well
as measles, should be guarded from bright
light and relieved by cold compresses. Ex-
posure after the disease often results in se-
vere bronchitis or pneumonia.
	“Measles develop about ten to fourteen
days after exposure, are very contagious,
and may be carried in the clothes.
	“The disease begins with red weeping
eyes, nasal discharge, dry cough and all the
symptoms of a severe cold. It is accom-
panied by fever, loss of appetite and on the
third or fourth day irregular patches of
small dark red raised spots appear first on
face, neck and arms, and later in trunk and
legs. There is also itching of the skin espe-
cially during peeling.
	“The child should be kept in bed until the
fever is over and the eyes carefully guarded
from strong light and bathe them three
times daily with boric solution. Cleanse the
nose and throat from discharges and do not
permit mouth breathing. The bowels should
be kept open, as the disease is partly thrown
off in that way.
	“The diet for a baby should be milk, for
older children fluids during the fever and
semi-solids later on.
	“Even the mildest cases should be rigidly
cared for, since eye, ear, nose and throat
troubles often complicate or follow measles.
It is advisable whenever a rash appears to
call in a physician or some one who can
accurately diagnose the case.”


NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.
	Mrs. Lillie Devereaux Blake, a pioneer in
the cause of woman suffrage, died in a san-
itarium at Englewood, N. J., December 30,
1913, aged 80 years. She had been ill for
several years, and recently had a turn for
the worse, when it was seen that because
of her advanced age her recovery was hope-
less.
	Mrs. Blake was the author of several suc-
cessful novels in her earlier years, but de-
voted the greater part of her life to cham-
pioning the cause of woman’s rights. She
was born in Raleigh, N. C.
	Another woman Mayor has been elected
in Oregon. A dispatch from Troutville
says that Mrs. Clara Larrson has been
chosen to that office by a majority of five
over the man who opposed her.	
	Oregon’s other woman Mayor is Miss
Clara Munson of Warrenton, who was
elected by the Citizens’ ticket last year.
	The town of Kanab, Utah, has a woman
mayor and the city council is composed en-
tirely of women. The executive ability of
women is gradually being recognized not
only in the suffrage states but the recent
appointments of women to Federal positions
shows that President Wilson realized, the
fact that women of the nation should
receive some public recognition.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


BINGEN ON THE RHINE.
		(A Story Re-told.)
O Bingen, storied Bingen, a favored lot is
	thine,
There nestling by the mountains beside the
	glorious Rhine;
Where maidens oft were weeping and sighing
	“Love of mine,
Come back, come back to Bingen,” fair Bingen
	on the Rhine.

And tearful mothers praying, still say “Thy.
	will not mine,”
Though far away is sleeping the soldier of the
	Rhine.
The dying eyes fast closing saw where the
	sunbeams shine,
On that dear home in Bingen, loved Bingen
	on the Rhine.

Escapes a sigh, a heart throb, I cannot but
	repine;
I see that soldier dying who babbles of the
	Rhine,
And happy days of childhood, loves of that
	earlier time;
When fading was the picture of Bingen on the 
	Rhine.

The battle long hath ended, sad memories
	round it twine,
But ne’er will be forgotten the soldier of the
	Rhine.
He marched away in triumph, fast stepping, 
	straight in line,
But ne’er returned to Bingen, the home be-
	side the Rhine.

And other hearts have broken, crushed by the
	woes of Time
That in the hour of passing sighed “Bingen
	on the Rhine.”
O peaceful is thy beauty when sun, or moon-
	beams shine
Appears as scene elysian the gently flowing
	Rhine.

So in life’s closing moments the heart doth
	ever pine,
For childhood days in Bingen, fair Bingen on
	the Rhine;
Soft evening shades are falling, the sun’s rays
	fast decline,
But loath I leave thee Bingen, O Bingen on
	the Rhine.

There is a something whispers as if a breath
	divine,
The tales of love and parting beside the witch-
	ing Rhine;
A[-] rapture strange, mysterious, o’er fills this
	heart of mine,
And tear drops fall unbidden while sailing on 
	the Rhine.

There comes a sadness o’er me, and thoughts
	none may define,
Not known before beholding the grandeur of
	the Rhine;
And in the days far coming, will memory round
	it twine—
Bring dreams forever cherished, I dreamed be-
	side the Rhine. 
					LYDIA D. ALDER.


[Column 1]
MADAME BERNHARDT HONORED.
	From Paris comes the news that at last
the name of Sarah Bernhardt has been
added to the roll of fame of the Legion of
Honor. Her claims have been put for-
ward several times but the influence of
 a strong element in French society pre-
vented the French actress from obtaining
the decoration.
	Among the famous women who are pos-
sessors of the red ribbon are Adelina Patti,
Mme. Curie, the Baroness de Rothschild,
Mme. Paquin, and Mme. Dutrieu; the
aviator.


MARY E. LEIGHTNER.
	Another noble and true woman whose
death it is our sad duty to chronicle is Sis-
ter Mary E. Leightner, who died Dec. 17,
1913.
	Sister Leightner was born April 9, 1818,
in Lima, New York. She joined the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in the
fall of 1830, just six months after the
Church was organized, or at the time Oli-
ver Cowdery, Peter Whitmer and Zeba Pe-
terson came to Kirtland, Ohio,  and estab-
lished a branch of the Church. Father Mor-
ley was ordained an elder to preside over
this branch of the Church.
	Sister Leightner was one of those chosen
spirits who seemed called for the special
purpose to help in the building up of the
kingdom of God upon the earth. She
passed through all the trials and persecu-
tions of the Saints in Missouri and Illinois,
and with unfailing faith endured many
hardships. She was sealed to the Prophet
Joseph Smith before his death.
	Sister Leightner moved from Salt Lake
City to Minersville, Beaver county, Utah, in
1863, where she made her home until the
time of her death. Her funeral was large-
ly attended by friends who honored and
loved her good and noble work.
	At her funeral letters of condolence were
read from President Joseph F. Smith and
Stake President J. F. Tolton. There were
present at the funeral, twenty-one persons
who had attended school as students of
Sister Leightner. Bishop Marshall, Elders
Myers, Banks, Lee and Wood, also Sister
Sarah B. Gillins, spoke words of consolation
and told of the faithful and unselfish life
of the good woman. She lived a life it
would be well to emulate. So, one by one
are passing from earth those who knew
the Prophet Joseph Smith, and whose tes-
timonies of him and his mission are so
treasured by the Saints.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of Box
Elder Stake held at Willard, Nov. 15th,
1913.
	President Sarah P. Stohl presided.
	Present, besides Relief Society Stake of-
ficers: President Oleen N. Stohl, Counselor
W. C. Horsley, Bros. Burt, Cook, and
Facer of the High Council. Bishops Wright
and Hubbard and several brethren from
Willard.
	President Sarah Stohl announced this
conference was held in honor of two of our
old sisters. Sister Nancy Whitaker, a mem-
ber of the first organization at Nauvoo, and
Sister Bathia Wells, a daughter of Brother
Elijah Fordham. Said this morning’s ses-
sion would be in honor of the Prophet Jo-
seph Smith.
	Opened with singing, “Praise to the
Man,” etc.
	Opening prayer, Bishop Brigham Wright.
	Singing, “Oh, give me back my Prophet
Dear.”
	Minutes of previous forenoon conference
read and accepted.
	President Stohl was pleased to see such
a good crowd out this morning and that
the weather was so favorable; was pleased
to have the privilege of holding our confer-
ence here at Willard, and felt to appreciate

[Column 2]
the kindness and thank the sisters for their
invitation; appreciated the sisters of the
Stake Board and the work of the local of-
ficers; said we had held district conferences
in some of the wards and felt the work
was going on.
	Sister Mary Frodsham gave the 44th
chapter of the life of the Prophet, which
treats on the miraculous healing of Elijah
Fordham and others by the Prophet.
	Sister Bathia Wells, a daughter of Elijah
Fordham, bore her testimony, and gave in
detail the incident of the healing of her
father by the Prophet, said she knew the
Prophet, saw him taken to prison, and saw
his body when brought from Carthage, was
at the meeting, when the mantle of the
Prophet fell on Brigham Young, was thank-
ful to see this day, and if her testimony was
any good to strengthen the testimony of
any one, she wished to be of service;
thanked the Lord for her faith, and for His
blessings to her, and hoped she might ever
be found trying to serve the Lord.
	Brother George Harding had seen the
Prophet Joseph and remembered him quite
well; told how they used to hold meetings
in the grove, at Nauvoo; said the most im-
pressive things to him in connection with
the Prophet, was taking a message to him at
his home, and the fatherly talk, which he
gave him; spoke of his own baptism and
confirmation by Hyrum Smith; related an
incident just before the death of the Proph-
et. Bore his testimony that Joseph Smith
was a Prophet of God, and hoped we would
stand firm and steadfast to the principle
taught by him.
	The hymn, “The Seer,” was rendered by
Sister Lottie Owens.
	Sister Nancy Whitaker, one of the sis-
ters who belonged to the first Relief So-
ciety organized at Nauvoo. She told of
the work of the organization and the sew-
ing done, but on account of being rather
feeble, her age being nearly 94, her grand-
daughter, Martha Woodland, read her testi-
mony, which she had previously written
down, as she had told it.
	President Oleen N. Stohl had been very
interested in this meeting, and could not
help but say Joseph Smith was a prophet
of God; bore his testimony to the same; said
he was glad to say that those who would
accept the Gospel would have thep rivilege
of bearing this testimony; said if we have
faith and can live the Gospel we can have
the privilege given us to do all the things
required of us; spoke on the growth of this
Church, especially in the organization of
the Relief Society, and the inspiration of
Joseph Smith to organize it, said if you
want to be happy, do something in the
Church, and if you don’t accept this mis-
sion you will never feel good; encouraged
all to work and know for themselves that
this gospel is true; spoke on tithing and
keeping the Sabbath day holy, and other
laws of God, and the blessings received by
keeping them; said, Let us work for the
service of God each day, and put the best
we have into it. Bore a strong testimony
to the power of God in his own behalf, and
felt he could not appreciate the blessings of
the Lord enough. God bless you, my sis-
ters; I feel your hearts are in the work.
	President Sarah Stohl was thankful for
the presence of so many of the brethren;
said the afternoon session would be devoted
to Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith.


Sister Agnes Owens, president of Willard
Relief Society, felt to welcome all, and
wished all to stay to lunch.
	Singing, Doxology.
	Prayer, Brother Wm. Facer.
	Afternoon Session.
	Singing, ‘I’ll Serve the Lord while I am
Young.”
	Opening prayer, Sister Jane Owens.
	Sister Lula B. Call read and explained
the song, “Oh, my Father,” which was af-
terwards sung by the congregation.
	Roll call showing 260 members present,
the stake board answering, by sentiments
from Sister Snow’s poems and sayings.
Minutes of previous afternoon conference
read and approved.
	Sister Stohl hoped the same good spirit
which had been with us this morning would
stay with us this afternoon; wished to thank
the sisters of Willard for the splendid lunch,
and pleasant noon hour.
	Sister Rachel Evans gave a sketch of the
life of President Eliza R. Snow Smith.
	The hymn, “The trials of the present day,”
was sung as a duet by Sisters Eliza White
and Alice Nebeker.
	Five minute reports were given, on sew-
ing done, nights spent with sick, quilts
made, means gathered for wheat, and other
items for six months, by the secretaries of
the following associations: Willard, Perry,
Harper, Third and Fourth Wards of Brig-
ham City.
	The “Hymn, “The Lord has imparted
from above,” was sung as a solo, by Sister
Della Nuttal.
	Reports continued, Brigham City First
and Second Wards, Bear River City and
Honeyville.
	Sister Mosiah Evans of the Bear River
Stake Relief Society, was pleased to be
here today, and visit with us in the confer-
ence; said she had heard much today that
would increase her faith; thought the tes-
timonies of those old sisters was a great tes-
timony to us; felt we ought to be so thank-
ful that we belong to the Relief Society, and
may we be inspired to go on and lead bet-
ter lives was the blessing she asked for all.
	Bishop Jos. Hubbard said it had been a
day of rejoicing to him, in listening to the
program and the testimonies of the sisters.
Felt it an honor to have this conference
held here and felt to extend a glad wel-
come to all; felt this conference would do
much good in helping to create interest in
this work.
	President Stohl was sorry the time was
so short, as we could not hear from all we
would have liked to hear from; said Presi-
dent Stohl wished her to express his appre-
ciation for the welcome extended to us;
was pleased with the reports, but felt there
was room to do better. Let us put forth our
very best efforts to further this work.
Wished again to thank the sisters and may
the Lord bless all.
	Singing, “Truth Reflects upon Our
Senses.”
	Benediction, Patriarch Edwin Cordon.
		SARAH P. STOHL, President.
		ANNIE H. LITTLEWOOD, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.
	Resolutions of respect to Sister May Ash-
worth-Booth, passed by the Relief Society
Board of Utah stake, of which she was sec-
retary:


Whereas, Our Heavenly Father has, in His
infinite wisdom, taken from our midst our es-
teemed and dearly loved sister, May Ashworth-
Booth; and,
	Whereas, The intimate relation held during
a long period of time, by her, with the mem-
bers of this Board, makes it fitting that we re-
cord our appreciation of her; therefore,
	Resolved, That the wisdom and ability which
she has exercised in aid of our work by counsel
and service, will be held in grateful remem-
brance;
	Resolved, That the removal of our dear sister
from our midst leaves a vacancy and a shadow
that will be deeply realized by all members of
the Board and its friends;
	Resolved, That with deep sympathy with the
afflicted relatives and friends of the departed,
we express an earnest hope, that even so great
a bereavement, may be overruled for their
highest good.
	That we unite our sentiments with our loved
sister Aretta Young, in her following tribute:

	Oh, Friend:
Thou hast too early gone to thy long rest:
Dear one, good-bye;
We would have kept thee,
(’Twas our hearts’ desire),
Within our domain here,
To make the world more dear,
More rich in friendship’s great bequest;
But thou didst tire
’Neath mortal pain and weariness,
And God hath called thee to thy rest:
	Beloved, farewell!

In grief our hearts are still,
He knoweth best, dear heart,
Bowed ’neath the Father’s will;
Why we should part;
And since thou'st passed the "Silence drear,”
Death’s gloom hath less of awesome fear—
The lonely pathway more of light;
Sweet friend,  good night.

	Sister Booth was born September 28,
1874, to Wm. and Mary E. Ashworth, in
Beaver, Utah. She graduated from the B.
Y. A. (now U.) in 1895; was married to
A. L. Booth of Provo in Salt Lake Temple,
in June, 1900; gave birth to five children,
three of which she laid away at birth. She
is survived by husband, two little daughters,
father, mother, six brothers, four sisters,
many other relatives and friends. She was
always a faithful worker in the Church.
	Died, Oct. 10, 1913, Provo, Utah. 
				ALICE T. BLAKE,
				EUNICE S. HARRIS,
				SARAH HOLDAWAY,
							Committee.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	A band of First Settlers, in Quaker dress,
will march in the parade which the Pennsyl-
vania suffragists are planning to hold in
Philadelphia. The Friends were probably
the earliest of modern religious denomina-
tions to give women equal rights in the
church—or rather in the meeting house—
and in colonial days Hannah Penn for some
time acted as Governor of Pennsylvania.


MADAME DAVENPORT, AGE 90, AD
	DRESSES LADIES’ CLUB.
	The absolute demonstration of a new out-
look for the human race was made re-
cently at the Ladies’ Literary club in
Salt Lake City, when Madame Charlotte
de Goliere Davenport personally illus-
trated the possibility of retaining at
90 years of age the appearance, viva-
city, physical elasticity and mental vigor,
not of youth, yet of the best of an early
prime. Madame Davenport, claiming to be
in her ninetieth year, and the mother of 24
children, appears hardly 50, and moves,
speaks and talks with the charm of a girl
of 20 years.
	Her points were made with a freshness
and wit which kept her audience bubbling
with laughter at times, and interested and
enthusiastic throughout.
	“Many people are sick,” said the speaker,
“because they are too lazy to take the trou-
ble to be well, or because they selfishly cling
to their ailments, loving them too well to let
go.” She illustrated her belief with many
interesting incidents, and continued: “There
is but one class of people for whom I have
a contempt—it is the sick. I have helped
to cure many people by showing them they
should be ashamed of their ailments instead
of exploiting and boasting of them. That
is what I call complaining—it is boasting—
and by it the sick build up what they pre-
tend to want to get rid of.”
	Madame Davenport is on her way to
California to teach a class of 75 women
“how to take care of themselves.” She has
been eight times around the world; served
38 years as private teacher of hygiene to
the empress of Austria, and now holds a
pension given her by the emperor Franz
Joseph. It is at periods like that in which
she measures her life: “I taught 25 years,”
at such a place: “I studied that science for
65 years,” and so on. Madame Davenport
states that she has a son 71 years of age,
one of 11 sons out of the 24 who are still
living. She remained in the city a week,
and it was hoped would address the young
girls, in whom she declares she is especially
interested.


THIRTY-FOURTH
ANNUAL ANNOUNCEMENT
			OF
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp’s
	SCHOOL OF NURSING
	AND OBSTETRICS
	Beginning October 6, 1913.
		Hours 9 to 12 a.m.
For full particulars communicate with
	ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.,
713 Second Avenue, Salt Lake City, Utah

R. K. THOMAS CO.,	67-69 MAIN STREET,
					SALT LAKE CITY.
	The most becoming Styles in Ladies’
	Suits, Coats, Dresses, Skirts, and
	Waists at Popular Prices.
THE STORE WHERE YOU CAN FEEL AT HOME


[---]
Mary A White
					WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
		The Organ of the Latter-day Saints’ Woman’s Relief Society.
Vol. 41.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY, 1914		No. 14.


CONTENTS.
After Long Years.......................................	97
City Pride..................................................	97
The Suffrage Movement in England.........	98
Early Literary Women of Utah..................	100
Capital Cities in Colonial Days.................	102
Madame Mountford...................................	104
Editorial: 
	Heartfelt Farewell..............................	100
	Notice.................................................	100
	President Penrose...............................	100
	Thou Shalt Not Bear False Witness...	100
Poetry: 
	Sorrow and Tears...............................	97
	Sowing and Reaping..........................	102


SORROW AND TEARS.
Out of my sorrow and mourning,
	Out of its grief and its pain;
Its sighing and sobbing, and moaning,
	The deepest, and wildest refrain
Swells forth with a melody pleading
For the heart that is stricken and bleeding.
Regrets for past promises waiting,
	And prophecies yet unfulfill’d;
The tears and the voice that is waiting,
	The strength of strong passions distill’d;
The agony past self-containing,
The grief that o’ermasters restraining.
			—Emmeline B. Wells.


[Column 1]
		AFTER LONG YEARS.
Amid the grand old woods of oak and pine.
I sit me down, ’mong mosses, flowers and
	ferns,
And thought, with magic pow’r almost divine;
Unconsciously to other days returns.
	An excess of joy must always be tem-
pered with sadness, or at least blended, as
the minor notes blend with those that are
high and shrill, and while nature revels in
its glorious beauty, and the spirit rejoices
in accordance therewith, there are also low
tones of music sweet and clear that thrill to
the very center of the human heart and
stir its deepest fountains, with a something
indefinable, but which harmonizes with the
twilight, and the soft murmur of the brook-
let, and the song of the nightingale. And
in the train of thought that comes with
twilight shadows, soft murmuring waters,
and the songs of thrust and nightingale,
there steals athwart the soul a pensive ten-
derness, that stirs the oldest memories, and
all unconsciously, we stand as ’twere in
places where our feet have trod many
“long years ago,” and vividly before us, as
by enchantment all the realisms coeval
with the very hour, live again within our
hearts ;we see the wood-path where we
wound our way through tangled vines and
broke the rotten wood, and hear perchance
the woodman’s axe again, as though its
echoes lingered in our souls these forty

[Column 2]
years, and pushing onward through the
tangled copse pierced with the briars, gath-
ering here and there a wild-flower, we feel
the conscious touch of some soft hand with-
in our own, and, blessed memory! it thrills
us now as it did then, and we might dream
of bliss like this forever, were it not that
some fierce night owl with red eyes, glares
at us, or screeches its horrid notes, and
wakes us, as it were, in terror; or a serpent
hisses beneath our feet and warns us that
life’s path’s beset with danger. Yes even in
our memory of the past, the reveries of
blissful thoughts, these horrid phantoms
glide and mock at human happiness.
	And thus in the brightest moments of
our lives we are pursued by shadows; and
tis well, for we cannot bear too much of
sunshine and graciously the shadows inter-
vene, and sadness blends with joy, as shad-
ows with the sunlight, and the stars shine
in the darkness, as hope mingles with our
sorrows; and we know all things by con-
trast; and after toil and weariness there’s
rest, and thus we learn life’s lesson, and if
we’re wise we’ll gather precious treasures
by the way, and enshrine them in our hearts,
that we may feast upon them in our lonely
hours. The harvest of good fruit sewn by
kind acts, and loving words and deeds of
simple unaffected charity. These are the
gems that will adorn the brows of those
who live to bless their fellow beings.
	How many such, who now have passed
away our memory can recall and they will
live forever; and every spring the fair
green earth shall see, shall be the sweeter,
fairer, fresher, purer and more fragrant, be-
cause of these dear ones, whose deeds of
holy love have consecrated them to God;
and in the blessed morn of the eternal
spring when heaven shall crown the earth
with that ecstatic kiss that thrilling
through every fiber shall wake the dead,
and breathe into their re-awakened souls,
the consciousness of all they are and were
and are to be ,then shall we know what
gave us this keen sense of all the beautiful,
this power to draw such perfect imagery
and call up memories that long years have
buried deep; and all the magic and un-
known, will be revealed to those whose mis-
sion has been nobly filled.
	None should sit idle while there are
flowers or gems to gather, though they
must plunge into the thicket to obtain
them, or dive into the ocean’s depths, and
if we let our fear of thorns and briars daunt
us, or even the creatures beneath; then we
must be content without the blessing, for
none can conquer but the brave. And
when the victory is won we can sit down
and count our sorrows o’er, but till that
time, we must push on, and yet there are
some pleasant pastures by the way, and
healing waters where the thirsty traveler
may drink; and if we are diligent who
knows but we may reach the everlasting
hills that tempt us in the distance, that
seem so near until we try to reach them.
					AUNT EM.


CITY PRIDE.
		Alice Merrill Horne.
	I hold as a fundamental principle of good
government that each citizen, whether rich
poor, sick, well, old or young, should be re-
quired by the commonwealth of which he
or she is a necessary unit, to do his or her
just portion of labor in making and sustain-
ing a healthful and beautiful city. Our city
has not yet come into a full understanding of
her own. She has individual moral and
physical responsibility. We ought to have
efficient municipal officers. Further than
that, we have an individual duty to give
aid, so far as we may, singly and unitedly,
in the solution of these difficult problems.
	Though we are far from the Millennium,
may we not, as a united body of women,
hasten the reign of righteousness by, a
proper use of the suffrage? Is it not pos-
sible for us to use that sacred trust so sa-
credly that no self-seeking man shall pre-
sume to rear his head before a public office?
	What would you think of an ordinance-
to compel residents or landholders to keep
out weeds? What result would follow com-
pulsory house-screening, stable-screening,
and garbage-screening for a few years?
	What follows weekly moving of garbage
and manure from premises? We look upon
each citizen as an asset in the municipal cor-
poration. The citizens constitute the mu-
nicipal corporation’s greatest wealth. She 
has no more important problem than to pro-
vide the best means for preserving the
health and thus lengthening the lives of her
citizens. Those most interested along-these
lines prescribe a clean and beautiful city.
	“Man is that he might have joy.” So
spoke the prophet, and we accept it as true
philosophy also.
	That man might have joy, the home is
made, the city is founded, municipal gov-
ernment is established, and what, tell me,
gives man more joy than a clean and beau-
tiful home, a clean and beautiful yard, a
clean and beautiful city? These indeed
make life sweet and build a perfect setting
for Godliness.
	I would like to bring to the hearts of
those present the opportunity that this won-
derful Young Ladies’ Mutual Improve-
ment Association has squarely before it,
even the privilege to organize and utilize an
enormous amount of energy (that is daily
wasted, misdrected, or lost) toward en-
riching soil, destroying weeds, placing, trees
and hedges, planting vegetable gardens, de-
signing flower beds and window boxes,
making lawns.
	We could, if we would, make of this city
a veritable garden of Eden. Let us set
aside beauty for a moment and become sor-
did. It would pay—alas that is the measure
into which everything must fit, for we are
in a Commercial process and at the com-
mercial stage. Yes, it would pay! A yard,
six rods by ten, this season produced fully
$50 in fruit and vegetables, and gave the


[Column 1]
same profit for flowers, and over one hun-
dred large bunches of flowers sent to
friends besides. So, it is a conservative
estimate that I give you when I say that
within two years from its entire setting out,
in the form of a park, a block would be sav-
ings its residents one thousand dollars per
year, and furnishing bouquets, too, for
friends.
	The residents on any block could unite.
Here we are friends, relatives, neighbors
of long standing. Let us take out the un-
sightly fences, mark our property lines with
rows of flowers, lay out the block as a park
—a combined vegetable garden, orchard,
vineyard, flower garden and lawn! It would
not only be a thing of beauty and a joy for-
ever, if it were unceasingly cared for; and
who would be content with the stale and
expensive market product after enjoying
the fresh vegetables and fruit from his own
vine and tree?
	I believe that the greatest difference be-
tween poverty and plenty, between poor
living and good living, is a home garden.
Then, just for a moment, think of that de-
graded poverty that never allows God’s
children to see even a bud unfold. Who
could have joy in such an unlovely life?
	It does cost work, it does take time. But
it brings joy! Digging is good for women,
for both old and young. Both of my grand-
mothers were gardeners of no mean order,
and both passed the eightieth mark and one
nearly reached ninety.
	There must be early rising. Say, did you
ever see a sunrise out in your own quiet
garden, where everything seemed waiting,
expectant, for the sunlight? Yes, garden-
ing pays, and in more ways than one.
	In parking a block, after the fences are
removed the soil should be fertilized by
manure and dead leaves that are available,
and must also be carted away. What a
waste to burn the leaves, and how dreadful
it makes the atmosphere. Walks should be
laid out and don’t be stingy about the
walks; make them broad and spacious. It
will add greatly to the beauty of your home.
Small, sunny patches should be filled in
with strawberries, rhubarb and asparagus,
and more shady spots will like English cur-
rants, goosberries, raspberries, sage, pars-
ley, mint, summer savory and thyme. Grapes
in the hottest soil and sunniest places, hung
on a long pergola or lattice, would be
charming. A small grove of English wal-
nuts and almonds, will pay large dividends
in good nuts, after eight years, and con-
tinue bearing many years. They are dec-
orative from the first. Mr. J. T. Harwood
has varieties of English walnuts that have
become acclimated to these parts and they
will not therefore freeze down in cold
weather, as all imported nut trees will.
	Now, right here is the ideal home of the
fruit trees. My grandfather, George A.
Smith, set out a splendid orchard of peaches,
pears, apples, apricots and plums.
	The centers of all our blocks are now
ugly weed patches; they offer a field for ro-
tating crops of corn, squash, potatoes, peas,
string beans, greens, carrots, beets, and onions.
	Now for flowers and lawns—the east side
has shown us what can be done with Salt
Lake. But before that, long years ago, oth-
ers blazed the way! Let us hark back to
when James Dwyer planted a rose garden in

[Column 2]
Salt Lake. Roses must not be planted
singly, but in rose gardens, and then we
have roses indeed.
	Have you forgotten the big lawn the Car-
rington girls made, irrigated and tended?
I think I sniff now the lovely, pure white
climbing roses on the south wall of the old
home—and there were the great red pe-
onies, too. Can you think back to the great
trees of white and purple lilacs, and the cab-
bage roses, all abloom in Grandmother Mer-
rill’s dooryard? Who has not been made
glad with a bunch of rare chrysanthemums
or roses from some wonderful flower gar-
den? On the old Irving school block, you
may find the finest General Jocks, asters and
sweet peas.
	Then there are the wonderful old moun-
tain willows—but few remain. A few re-
mained standing in the old University
grounds—now Salt Lake High school. How
I loved to pass near them, but alas the day
that I found the most beautiful ones among
them the monarchs of the grounds (and
there were many trees that were indeed
lovely) lying broken, helpless to lift their
dainty green, which always were the first
to open their buds in spring. Think of de-
stroying a half block of trees with a history
just to make a place in which boys and
girls might drill and play when a few blocks
away a hundred blocks lay empty, except of
sagebrush! Trees that, if they could speak,
could tell the story of the red men, of hunt-
ers with the flint and arrow, of dry, parched
desert places, of the entrance to this valley
of the pale face, of the first breaking of vir-
gin soil, the birth of irrigation, the hiding
of the desert’s nakedness beneath a mantle
of green—in a word, sentinels, witnesses of
all that our fathers have done. Yea, year
by year the grand old willows had lov-
ingly reached out in newer beauty, making
shadier seats under their wonderful willow
green tops—seats you and I have sought
for study periods. And now my heart
ached, my voice choked with tears when my
startled vision beheld them ruthlessly cut
down, destroyed forever. Now no re-
pentant hand could succor them or recall
the work of the cruel ax. Few remaining
trees were spared. Three stand on the
north side, just over the sidewalk, and one
on the west. They have, it is true, been
butchered, cut out of all true shape, but they
still retain the same wonderful color, the
same tender artistic feeling.
	We have but a few treasures left, a few
of the old trees, let us care for them and
make a beautiful setting for them. Shall we
then pull down the ugly fences, lay out
good walks, make lawns, plant rose gar-
dens, shrubs, flowers, orchards, vineyards,
and kitchen gardens? Let us do it now, and
make a beginning on our garden of Eden.
We have a beautiful city, by the inspiration
of God she has been set upon hills, slopes
that look out on a wonderful inland sea.
She is guarded and girded around by
mighty mountains, crowned with everlasting
snows, veiled with marvelous shades of
blue. She is blessed with clear, cooling
streams, fresh from ten thousand springs.
Her soils vary from sandy, graveled, loamy
to clayey earth and all can be made to grow
some lovely thing.
	Can we honestly lift our eyes in praise and
thanksgiving to God for these blessings and
permit the very earth under our feet, our
own inheritance, the sod encompassing our


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE SUFFRAGE MOVEMENT IN ENG-
			LAND.
	The phenomenon of the “Suffragette”—
generic title accorded to the representatives
of the militant movement on behalf of the
woman’s vote in England—has its organized
rival in a non-militant advocacy of the re-
form movement, whose adherents are
termed Suffragists even when respect is pas-
sive; besides these two, there is a third an-
tithetic party, frankly antagonistic to the
vote, who proclaim themselves as Anti-
suffragists. In addition, there is a surviv-
ing residue of English women whose fav-
orite policy is to evade the subject, but who,
if cornered for a definition of their views,
frown or smile, and confess to “not really
care for politics at all.”
	A dozen years ago in London, though the
term “New Woman,” exploited in a more
or less witty problem novel by Sarah
Grande, sounded somewhat stale, Women’s
Suffrage was not in the air current. What
was understood as essentially appertaining
to the matter had been discussed in courtly
fashion the foregone century: Tennyson’s
reflective intellect having bequeathed to
“sweet girl graduates” a sane analysis of
poignant complex questions in the sustained
rhythm, varied with melodic interludes, of
The Princess. To speak of “Women’s
Rights,” a score of years ago, was to recall
the domestic chaos of the Jellaby household,
if not to evoke simultaneously the shade of
Mrs. Pardiggle, whose visitations upon the
homes of the poor were inseparable with
havoc to outstanding articles wrought by
her sweeping train. If Dickens, or if Ten-
nyson, recalled to the scene of earthly vision,
could be asked to translate his impressions
of “The Signs of the Times,” as presented
by the campaign of his aggressive country-
women today, one wonders what creation of
an emancipated “type,” embodied in immor-
tal novel; what revelation of reversal to the
eternal feminine ideal, inspiring enchanting
verse, would be added to the world’s store?
	Though these return not, contemporary
literary opinion on the matter in question is
overtly expressed from time to time. Mr.
G. B. Shaw, the sardonic satirist of that
New England play, The Devil’s Disciple,
who has since, one suspects, become a satir-
ical poseur, has achieved a characteristic ex-
position of the subject in a stage-piece enti-
tled Fanny’s First Play. The acknowledged
head of the Anti-suffrage League is that
serene star of society and cultured conven-
tion, Mrs. Humphrey Ward. Miss Marie
Corelli has expressed a doubt as to the av-
erage British woman being a responsible
claimant for the imperial vote. Ouida,
whose latter volume of Critical Essays re-
vealed her to be secondary in intellectual
acumen to no predecessor amongst English-
speaking sister writers, left a word about
the matter prior to her lonely passing:—it
was a logical statement to the effect that the
assumption of' “equality” in certain senses
between the differently organized beings


[Column 1]
woman and man would result in the for-
feiture of that chivalry which is man’s defer-
ence, not to woman’s inherent weakness only,
but to her dower of delicacy and fineness,
psychal and temperamental, in the sum of
her strength.
	What, after all, is the destiny that woman
in her best development was intended by the
law of furtherance to fulfil? To achieve
submergence of her womanhood, a bur-
lesquing travesty of man, until Nature, out-
raged, brands her as a monstrous abortion,
or Time, in reactionary adjustment, disowns
her ancestry amidst a compensated genera-
tion’s laughter? Or is it for her to know
herself, complete, unique in individuality in-
deed, but in the electrical light of compar-
ison, seen decreed within herself to be, not
man’s double, but his complement, as surely
as he is hers? To recognize this is the rec-
ognize elemental truth, potentially motioned
towards infinite altitudes of the ideal in
realization. What, one ponders, can be the
attitude thereto of the militant Suffragists,
whose blatant egoism, revealed in vagaries
of ever increasing violence, has scourged the
land with lawlessness broadcast, soliciting
condonence of its crimes in pseudo-martyr-
dom?
	My introduction towards this form of suf-
fragism was at a certain stall of an exhibi-
tion, some seven years ago. Behind this stall
was a typical Suffragette, who, on my mak-
ing cursory examination of the pamphlets
and other suffrage “literature” of the stall,
advertised the opinions she was representing
in a hard, measured voice. She spoke in ex-
aggerated terms of a Miss Somebody whose
prowess appeared to consist in having in
various ways proved herself the equal of
man, in total independence of all masculine
aid, paternal or otherwise. “We” meaning
the amazonian army of the militant sister-
hood—“are prouder of her than of Joan of
Arc.”
	Joan the Maid, who spent her heroic life-
blood for a selfless realization of a dream, I
had heard of from time to time since daisy-
chain days: of the former lady never previ-
ously. The words and tone of the proclaimer
of her fame, however, brought by frictional
process to my mind the words of Tennyson:
	“Each like to each, yet like in difference.”
	“I think,” I replied, “a woman should
supplement, not substitute a man. Men
should be chivalrous.”
	Meanwhile the discussion had attracted a
little band of auditors around the stall.
Amongst them was an unmistakable French-
man, in an inverness cloak and wide-
brimmed hat; and a matronly elderly woman.
	At the latter words the Frenchman grave-
ly doffed his chapeau, while the woman said:
	“Men in England are not chivalrous as
they used to be in my younger days, and its
just the Suffragettes who are spoiling them
for us all!”
	Half a dozen years, and the Suffragette
vendor of the militant journal, Votes for
Women, has become as familiar a figure of
London streets as the Turkish bath sand-
wichman. Meanwhile, she had contrived to
contribute to the world a series of shocks.
Sudden sallies by surreptitious means into
the sacred precincts of parliament, attempted
invasion of the premier’s residence, have
been followed by wholesale smashing of
windows, and the destruction of the com-
munity’s letters in the public pillar-boxes.

[Column 2]
Churches have been burned to the ground,
priceless pictures ruthlessly destroyed;
policemen have been struck in the face in the
official discharge of duty by those Mrs.
Gamp would have been apt to describe with
certain qualifications as “female women.”
In goal for the crime of arson, when whole-
sale destruction of life has been narrowly
averted, the insurgent patriot on behalf of
women’s vote obtains a speedy release
through the ruse of hunger-striking; her re-
turn to freedom is celebrated by a banquet
at one of the most expensive hotels.
	But one day the world rings with an act
which makes the most daring deed of Don
Quixote pale before it. Not the quiet plain
which stretched around revolving wind-mills
that the Don mistook is the scene of adven-
ture, but the crowded spectacle of the royal
Derby race-course. A militant Suffragette
having evaded the barriers has thrown her-
self amongst the horses while they were
galloping by. A jockey, whose horse was
caused to stumble, escaped with a slight
injury; but in a few days the woman dies
of the hurts received. And the militant pro-
pagandists of the Vote advertise a spectac-
ular funeral. The cause has at length a
martyr.
	At the funeral of Don Quixote one would
surely weep; he sought not the applause of a
community, nor desired posthumous fame.
Save for one poor serving-man, the exploits
of his knight-errantry were performed alone.
He would not have hurt a lamb, whose iden-
tity was apparent as such. Alas! poor gen-
tleman, he was subject to illusions. But a 
woman of established sanity, in the hey-dey
of life’s prime, indued with the privilege of
intellectual culture—she had graduated from
a university with the degree of B. A.—had
thrown away her life for an act in which
not reason was justified, nor utility served.
	There is usually perceptible in a waiting
crowd the prevailing sentiment which has
gathered it together. It was a general half-
holiday, the day on which the dead Suffra-
gette’s funeral procession was to pass. The
route had been advertised, and in the bril-
liant sunshine the street-curbs were lined
with multitudes eager to be diverted by a
spectacle, possessed with sensational curi-
osity which had a certain morbid under-
current here and there. At length from the
ranks of onlookers was shouted, “Hark!
here they come!” A band was heard, and
nearer and nearer came the wailful strains of
Chopin’s Marche Funebre. Two glass
hearses appeared, containing wreaths and
other floral tributes. Then came an open
hearse, from which a crape-bound pennon
fluttered heavily; upon that, smothered in
white and purple flowers, was the coffin.
Then advanced a long procession of motley
banners. In the rear they stretched the
length of the street, high above the heads of
the crowd. Many of them rich in texture,
a few were emblematic in design; most,
however, reared a motto or scripture text in
purple letters upon a white background.
Certain of the former represented civic or-
ganizations conducted by men, whose polit-
ical opinions accord with the suffragist
movement. Most dolorous was one repre-
senting a society of women writers, the de-
sign of a rising sun in gold upon a white
background shining dimly through black
chiffon drapery. Of the texts and mottoes
held aloft, the selection or wording consti-
tuted a lurid revelation of the thought con-
fusion and the aberration of sentiment at

[Column 3]
the basis of the British Suffrage movement
as it appears in the prenomenon of “mili-
tancy.” For instance, “Give me Freedom or
give me Death,” seemed calculated to impel
a more casual mind than Pilate’s to turn
over the query, “What is Freedom?”
“Fight on, and God will give the Victory,”
the injunction on another banner, was some-
what provocative of inquiry as to the mili-
tant Suffragists’ religious creed. Certain
direct quotations from scripture had a more
painful effect upon those who hold the ideals
of Christianity in reverence. One of these,
indeed, in relation to that coffin, seemed su-
premely pitiful through the falseness of the
relevancy, “She hath done what she could.”
That the epitaph to describe the culminating
rashness of a once promising career, cut
short at its zenith? Had the act which cost
the woman graduate her life been to stop a
run-away dray, in order to save a little child,
or even a pet dog from injury, the applica-
tion might have served. But then there
would have been no pompous procession; no
banners nor bands for the diverted multi-
tude. What is it Charles Reade, in his
preface to a great book, has said concern-
ing sorrows suffered in silence, noble deeds
done without recognition, burdens bravely
borne every day by those “obscure heroes,
philosophers and martyrs that people earth?”
But a band in the rear was now passing, and
again the strains of Chopin wailed forth in-
finite lament. Well might the mournful music
wail on this bright day for the vigorous life
laid low prematurely. The woman in her
coffin was a martyr, after all; not in a great
and noble sense, but one supremely pitiful—
the martyr of a cause whose inherent blun-
derings have resulted in wild and wilder an-
archy, now at length emblazoning itself with
a vain apotheosis of its first victim unto
death. The pity of the individual tragedy of
a wasted sacrifice almost hallowed the propa-
gandists’ farce. As the music passed out of
hearing onward with the coffin towards the
station, I thought of certain lines learned
long ago by heart, which first conveyed the
idea of woman’s rights in a serious sense to
me. Perhaps the dead Suffragette had
known and felt them, too, until the octopus
of notoriety, with its fatal clutch, marred in
her the sense of the truth and fitness of
things. The lines are uttered by “The
Princess” to her fellow-seekers who would
stake the utmost for the highest:
						“Girls,
Knowledge is now no more a fountain seal’d:
Drink deep, until the habits of the slave,
Gossip and slander, die. Better not be
At all, than not be noble!”
			FLORENCE L. LANCASTER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


FRUIT CAKE.
		(WITHOUT EGGS.)
	2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 cup
raisins, 1 teaspoon cloves, 1 cup currants,
1 teaspoon soda, 1 cup water, 1/4 teaspoon
salt, 1/2 cup butter, 1 teaspoon lemon ex-
tract, 1 cup sugar.
	Candied peel and nutmeats may be added
if desired.
	Boil all ingredients (except flour, soda
and lemon), together for a few minutes.
When luke-warm, add flour, soda and lem-
on extract.  Mix thoroughly and bake in
slow oven, having oven hotter at first.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,	-	FEBRUARY, 1914


HEARTFELT FAREWELL.
	The Woman’s Exponent is now nearing
its forty-second birthday, having been first
issued on the first of June, 1872.
	The aim of the paper has always been
to assist those who needed assistance in
any or every line. That it has been the
medium through which many successful
and admired writers of the state have first
appeared in print is a well known fact. The
paper has always stood for high ideals,
both in the home, in the state, and in the
Church; desiring above all things the wel-
fare of the people at large. For women,
it has been a standard bearer, proclaiming
their worth and just claims throughout the
long years of its existence. As a teacher to
the Latter-day Saints, it has performed a
good work and its influence has been also
felt in the missionary field. We feel that
with justice to ourselves we can make this
claim and more if we so choose; and now
that this issue is to be the last, we cherish
in our hearts the thought that those who
have been our faithful patrons, will always
feel that our efforts to give them some good
thoughts, inspiring and comforting words,
have been unselfish and heartfelt. We love
the readers of this paper as a part of our-
selves; we love women and would ever
strive to uplift and help them to attain their
ideals; we love the Latter-day Saints and
we love the Relief Society—that great or-
ganization which this little paper has ever
sought to represent and build up; and may
our Heavenly Father ever have in His
gracious care, the women, whose life ser-
vice is the regeneration of mankind. The
Exponent has striven more than anything
else to be the organ of the Relief Society
and has published from time to time, reports
of ward, stake and general conferences of
that organization, their celebrations and
their resolutions. Its numbers contain
sketches of the lives of Relief Society
workers and notices of their deaths. It has
surely performed a mission in the midst of
Zion for the women of Zion, holding as
it does within its leaves the history of their
work. To lay aside the editorial pen, even
after so many long years, seems a hard
task, but though the pen may be idle, the
mind will ever gratefully remember all the
associations which this little paper has been
instrumental in creating. May you contrib-
utors continue in your chosen calling; may
you readers ever find good and worthy ma-


terial for your leisure moments, and may
God bless you all.


“THOU SHALT NOT BEAR FALSE
			WITNESS.”
	In the decalogue there is, perhaps, no
command more binding than the foregoing
no one more loosely carried or more often
broken. Binding, because throughout the
scriptures it is repeated oft and oft again;
twice in Exodus, once in Deuteronomy,


twice in Matthew, twice in Psalms, five
times in Proverbs, once in Zecharias, three
times in Matthew, once in Mark, twice in
Corinthians, once in Galatians, twice in Pet-
er, and once in John. Surely an offense
which calls forth so much of warning from
the prophets is in itself an heinous deed.
Let those beware who commit it, for the
harm will fall again upon their own heads.
“Who steals my purse steals trash, but he
who filches from me my good name takes
that which not enriches him and makes me
poor indeed.” The thief, the liar, the crim-
inal can be hunted out and brought to just
punishment; but for the smooth bearer of
false witness who achieves his own ag-
grandizment, by his neighbor’s injury, who
can tell the penalty that awaits! Woe to
him! for to his inner conscience some day
will come back the sorrow and heart ache he
has caused. The law of compensation is a
natural law, and divine; and the piercing
thorns will return and prick the conscience
of the falsifier—will encircle his brow until
in agony, he cries for that mercy which he
did not show, and which he has small reason
to expect.—A. W. C.


EARLY LITERARY WOMEN OF UTAH.
	The hardships of pioneer life are not gen-
erally very conducive to the cultivation of
the finer qualities of the mind and soul. The
making of new homes and conquering desert
wastes naturally calls forth all one’s energy,
and the tired work-worn body would nat-
urally require all the faculties of the mind
to assist in providing life’s necessities. For
many years after the settlement of these val-
leys, there was a dearth of literary work,
and it is not hard to find the names of those
few who found solace and comfort in the
use of the pen. The pioneers of Utah are a
very different type of people, to those who
generally seek new homes in unclaimed ter-
ritory. They were, as is well known, a peo-
ple of strong religious sentiment and innate
refinement. There were many men and
women among them of high intellectual at-
tainment. The pioneers brought with them
across the plains a printing press, and within
three years after their advent into the desert,
established a newspaper—The Deseret News
—and founded a university. In the early
columns of this paper and the Millennial
Star, printed in Liverpool, England, may be
found an occasional poem or article by Eliza
R. Snow, Emmeline B. Wells, Hannah T. 
King, and Sarah E. Carmichael. There was
established as early as 1854, a literary so-
ciety known as the Philosophical Society, “a
gathering for social, literary, and general
cultivation of mind and manners.” This so-
ciety was founded by Lorenzo Snow and the
meetings were held in his home, a handsome
residence for those days on the corner of
South Temple and Third East streets, known
to most of this generation, as the Clawson
residence.
	Poems and prose articles prepared for this
society often found their way to the columns
of The Deseret News, and thus was given an
incentive for the cultivation of literary tal-
ent. 
	Eliza R. Snow ranks as our first literary
woman. We know that as a girl she was
the author of a prize story published in
Gody’s Ladies Magazine, and was also re-
quested by a committee to write a requiem


[Column 1]
on the death of John Adams and Thomas
Jefferson, which occurred on the same day—
July 4, 1826—the nation’s birthday. These
with some other literary efforts, marked
Eliza R. Snow’s young womanhood and the
talent for writing and the taste for literary
work was always predominant with her,
though she is known as an expert needle
woman, a neat and thrifty housekeeper, a
teacher and prophetess among her people.
She found her greatest delight in quiet soli-
tude, penning songs for the Saints to sing,
or writing treatises containing words of ad-
monition and encouragement. As a historian
she is also known, having published those
very interesting books, “The Palestine Tour-
sts” and “The Life of Lorenzo Snow,” her
brother. Eliza R. Snow’s poetry is pub-
lished in two volumes and varies in its na-
ture. Her style is doctrinal and lofty rather
than musical and tender. Her great hymn
called “The Invocation,” better known, how-
ever, as “Oh my Father,” would immortal-
ize her name among the Latter-day Saints,
had she written nothing else, but as a song,
“Awake my slumbering minstrel,” is prob-
ably more more popular and musical. Eliza R.
Snow has contributed twenty hymns to the
Latter-day Saint hymn book, most of them
frequently sung in the congregations of the
Saints. Her prose writings, with the ex-
ception of the two books mentioned, are not
in collected form, but most of them are in
the different numbers of the WOMAN’S EX-
PONENT, and contain many interesting and
instructive paragraphs. Eliza R. Snow was
born in 1804, in Massachusetts, and her
nature, so full of integrity and spirituality,
was doubtless an heritage from her revolu-
tionary ancestry. In her childhood, her
father moved his family to Ohio and it was
there she and her father’s family accepted
the Gospel. She was a true Saint, as her
long life of vigorous spiritual teaching
proves and bears out her own words when
she so beautifully writes:
“And am determined now to be a Saint,
And numbered with the tried and faithful ones,
Whose race is measured with their life, whose joy
Is everlasting and whose happiness
Is God’s approval. And to whom ’tis more
Than meat and drink to do his righteousness.”
	Perhaps the fire of poetic genius has
burned in no woman’s soul more freely than
in the soul of Sarah E. Carmichael. Miss
Carmichael came to Utah with her parents
when quite a child. She was born in New
York. Even as a school girl she wrote
beautiful verses. In fact, her most beau-
tiful poems were written in her young days.
	A little volume of her writings was col-
lected and published by some of her friends
for private distribution. It is now very
rarely seen and is held most precious by
those fortunate enough to own one.
	Her poem, “The Stolen Sunbeam,” which
is the story of the discovery of gold, was
selected by William Cullen Bryant for his
collection of American poetry, thus giving
her a wider field of readers than most of our
literary women attained in early days. Her
beautiful poem, “Dead Roses,” is most ten-
der and touching, and breathes in its last
lines this hopeful thought:
“I have dreamed of a shore to the soundless
		Death River,
	Where love proves its moral of Never in Vain;
Where ’tis not the cross, but the crown of the
		giver,
	And the dead roses gather their incense again.”

[Column 2]
One poem of Miss Carmichael’s which
was not included in the volume, found its
place some years later in the WOMAN’S EX-
PONENT.” It was inscribed to President
Brigham Young and was written in the
Bowery, August 8, 1857. In her girlhood
she was a great admirer of the President
and his leadership, as were all the people,
but later she did not associate herself with
the Saints and found a circle of friends out-
side the faith. She married Dr. William-
son, a successful practicing physician, and
not long after her marriage she was seized
with a mental malady. Thus the promise
of her youth for a brillant career in the
literary world was not fulfilled. The poem,
“Dead Roses,” was also not in the collection
but was printed in a daily paper at the time
of her death.
	Emmeline B. Wells may well be classed
among our early literary women, having
written a great many stories and poems
which she styles fragments, in her early days,
even when a little girl. Her first published
poem, however, is called “Friendship,” and
was printed in the Millennial Star in 1844.
About 1853 she wrote an ode to Deseret in
which the wind on the desert is beautifully
described. Neither of these early poems, as
well as many later ones, are in her book
called “Musings from Memory,” the only
collection so far of her writings.
	In the hymn book we have four of her
songs, the best known of them, “Our Moun-
tain Home So Dear.” Her poetic nature is
shown in almost all her writings, whether
prose or poetry, but probably her greatest
poetic achievement is one of her last poems
written after she had attained the age of
84 years, for the dedication of the Maeser
Memorial, at Provo, May 30, 1912. When
one considers the long life work and the
advanced age of the author, to have written
so beautiful a poem, of such length, is cer-
tainly quite wonderful. The late A. C. Nel-
son, immediately after hearing it read, con-
gratulated the author and said he consid-
ered it a perfect epic, as did also Professors
Brimhall, Cummings, and others. The
poem is called an Ode. It contains nineteen
verses. The style is lofty, reminiscent and
prophetic, as these few lines will testify.
“Could we but catch the echoes of the past
	Reverberating through these flinty moun-
		tain walls,
As in our fancy vividly they’re singing,
What shadows o’er us would these memories
		cast,
What scenes of pleasure could the heart re-
		call—
Now, glad, now minor chords of music sing-
		ing.
“Some who are old today, and once were
		young,
Through patient years have hoped the day
		would come
When Zion’s youth with flag unfurled
Might fling the challenge to the world,
That here, in these sequestered vales
The highest, purest thought prevails
When lo, before our very eyes,
Today our dream we realize.
	Mrs. Wells’ literary work has been con-
fined almost altogether to the columns of
the WOMAN’S EXPONENT, the periodical
which she has edited and published for the
past forty years, and within its pages are
stories, editorials, histories, treatises, and
verses, all showing the versatility of the
author. Mrs. Wells is an adept in the art
of letter writing, as hundreds of men and

[Column 3]
women throughout the land can testify,
an art almost obsolete in this day of type-
writers, telephones, telegrams and wireless.
Born in New England and reared by a
puritanic mother, she also is of that strong
type of womanhood which faces all oppres-
sion for a cause she feels to be just, and
deems no sacrifice too great in the cause of
righteousness. Her artistic, sensitive, and
romantic temperament, has made life’s
struggle doubly hard, but she has valiantly
fought the battle, and, the Lord be praised,
is with us yet to give us words of encour-
agement and love. Mrs. Hannah T. King
contributed largely to Utah literature in
some fine prose writings. She also read
some poetic effusions before the Polysoph-
ical Society. She published two small books
in paper covers, which are much treasured
by the few who possess them. One is a
collection of verses called “Songs of the
Heart,” and the other is a book of essays
called “Women of the Scriptures.”
	Mrs. King was an English lady of fine
education and accomplishments. She was
most dignified in manner, and took quick
offense at any remark or act in her pres-
ence which in any degree flavored of rude-
ness or ill-manners. Her later writings
were also confined to the columns of the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT, to which little paper
she was a frequent contributor. Mrs. King
was born in Cambridge, England, the home
of the great university, and she was reared
among its classic shades and bowers. In
her youth she published two books, one for
girls and one for boys, called “The Toilet”
and “The Era” respectively. She was also
a fine letter writer, and cherished among
her many letters from noted people, one
from the great author, Victor Hugo.
	Hannah Cornaby is another gifted Eng-
lish woman who joined the Latter-day
Saints in her early girlhood. She was born
in Rose Hall, an ancient mansion on the
banks of the river Waverly, in Suffolk,
England, and was reared in the Episcopal
church. In her one published book, called
“Autobiography and Poems of Hannah
Cornaby,” she narrates in beautiful style her
whole life, which is more interesting than
fiction, for it abounds in inspiration and
faith. Mrs. Cornaby was a member and
contributed to the Polysophical Society, and
at one time a regular contributor to the
EXPONENT. She was a modest, retiring
woman, and sweet to look upon. The
writer shall never forget a summer morn-
ing spent with Mrs. Cornaby in her wild
and picturesque garden in the town of
Spanish Fork. Here, in this garden, were
written many of Mrs. Cornaby’s poems, and
she loved it very dearly. She was a dear
sweet woman, and the following verse from
her pen is like her.
	“I never wished for wealth or fame
		For I have understood
	How poor and valueless are these
		Compared with being good.”
	Emily Hill Woodmansee, still another of
our English women who has given many
splendid thoughts clothed in poetic phrase
to the people, found place for her ex-
pressive thoughts through the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT and Deseret News. She has
written twenty of our finest hymns, and
her songs are sung in many lands. Her
themes are mostly religious, and her style
lofty. Whenever she was in doubt or fear,
sufficiently to resort to divine guidance, she


[Column 1]
seemed to receive an answer to her petition
in verse, which, on the inspiration of the
moment she would indite. One of her last
hymns is the one called “The Day of Re-
demption.” This hymn was written during
those dark days in Utah known as the “un-
derground days.” Just before going away
from the midst of the people, our honored
and revered president, John Taylor, preach-
ed a very powerful sermon in the Taber-
nacle, I believe it was his last public ser-
mon to the people, and after counseling the
Saints, he said to them, words to this effect:
“No matter what happens, remember The
Lord God Omnipotent reigneth.” These are
the words Mrs. Woodmansee took for her
theme, and each verse of the hymn ends
with that phrase—The Lord God Omnipo-
tent reigneth.”
	Mrs. Woodmansee’s life was no bed of 
roses. She had many struggles and hard-
ships early and late, though for a time she
was quite prosperous in business, and
seemed to be acquiring more ease for her
later years. Financial difficulties appeared
again, still she was always hopeful, cheer-
ful and industrious. Mrs. Woodmansee
was one of those undaunted spirits which
feared nothing in the cause of truth—prov-
ing this statement beyond a doubt when I
tell you she was one of that memorable
company who pulled or pushed a handcart
from Iowa to Utah, walking every step for
1,000 miles.
	Louisa Lulu Greene Richards, beloved
among the people for her children’s stories
and poems, was the first editor of the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT, then a young woman
just beginning her literary work. Mrs.
Richards has written a great deal for the
public, and published one volume of poems
called “Branches that Hang Over the Wall,”
surely a most poetic name. She conducted
for many years the department for little
folks in the Juvenile Instructor, and has
been a frequent contributor to the Children’s
Friend, these two periodicals being the or-
gans of the L. D. S. Sunday Schools and
Primary Association. She has also con-
tributed to the hymn book and to the Sun-
day School Song Book. The beautiful hymn
called “One Hundred Years” was the prize 
hymn written for the one hundredth anni-
versary of the birth of the Prophet Joseph
Smith. The Sunday School Union offered
three prizes for the three best poems to be
set to music, the theme to be connected
with the Prophet Joseph, and Mrs. Richards
won all three of the prizes.
	Augusta Joyce Crocheron is another of
our early women writers who has contrib-
uted both of poetry and prose, and pub-
lished one very valuable little book of bi-
ographies called “Representative Women of
Deseret.” Her poetry is very touching and
tender. Her life has been somewhat seared
with sorrow and misfortune, but she always
has a hopeful and cheerful word for her
friends. She was one of that memorable
company who reached Utah by coming all
the way from Boston to San Bernardino in
the ship Brooklyn, around Cape Horn, and
was with the members of the Battalion in
California at the time of the discovery of
gold.
	Miss Sarah E. Russell has written for
many years, both prose and poetry, under
the nom de plume of Hope. She was surely
one of Utah’s gifted daughters, and her 
work is of a high order. That she died an 
exile, driven from her home in Mexico dur-

[Column 2]
ing the present war, seems to be a tragic
fate for one so full of hope and faith.
	Helen Mar Whitney, mother of our gifted
poet and historian, Orson F. Whitney, pos-
sessed marked literary ability, and pub-
lished many strong articles and letters,
mostly on doctrinal subjects.
	Mary J. Tanner, Martha J. Coray and Lu-
cinda Lee Dalton have all written some fine
essays and poems, thus contributing to the
field of literature.
	Another writer of beautiful verse is Miss
Miller, known to the public as “Ruby La-
mont,” never having consented to the use of
her own name.
	Lydia D. Alder, Ellis R. Shipp, and
Lillie T. Freeze have all long been engaging
in literary work, and are still among the
writers. Mrs. Alder has published a book,
the History of the Holy Land, and Mrs.
Shipp has issued an artistic volume of
poetry called “Life Lines.”
	Mrs. Susa Young Gates began her lit-
erary work quite early, and still continues.
She was the founder of the magazine, the
Young Woman’s Journal, and for many
years its editor. Her work consists largely
of short stories. In the issue of her inter-
esting book, “John Stevens’ Courtship,” she
claims the distinction of having written and
published the first work of fiction by a Utah
woman.
	Mrs. Mary A. Freeze wrote some inter-
esting articles and poetry, and we must not
forget our sweet writer, Ruth May Fox,
whose poetry is most tender and musical.
	Among the later writers whose work is
widely recognized, Mrs. Annie Pike Green-
wood claims a prominent place. Her poems
having been published in The Century and
other magazines. Utah very proudly claims
her. Also Miss Josephine Spencer, whose
stories and poems have found a place in
The Youth’s Companion and St. Nicholas
magazine. Miss Spencer’s best work has
been probably somewhat retarded by the
constant grind of newspaper work.
	There are a host of women writers now
of splendid literary ability whose names
deserve mention in this article, though it
is called “Early Women Writers,” because
they are contributing to the field of home
literary work and giving encouragement to
others as well as interesting many thousands
of readers—Mrs. Kelsey who has won the
prize poem in the Christmas News more
than once, as has also Mrs. Bertha Ander-
son Kleinmann who published a beautiful
Indian story in verse. May Booth Talmage,
Ann M. Cannon and Mary Connelly, who
have edited the Young Woman’s Journal
and contributed largely to the contents of
that little magazine; Edith E. Read, Maud
Baggarley, Grace Ingles Frost, Kate
Thomas, Alice M. Horne, Christine D.
Young, Mrs. Greenhalgh, Ada Patterson,
Mrs. Coray and doubtless many others
whose names I do not now recall.
	Many times during this narrative, men-
tion has been made of the little periodical the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT, which in this issue
closes its career. The paper has been the
medium through which many of the Utah
writers first came to public attention, both
men and women, and has formed in its ser-
vice the medium through which nearly all
those mentioned in this article have ex-
pressed their best thoughts.
		ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


PRESIDENT PENROSE.
	On the 4th of February, President Charles
W. Penrose attained the eighty-second mile
stone in his life—a life so full of service that
time has made little if any mark on his geni-
al countenance nor dimmed his youthful
spirit. Industry and faith have seemed to be
his investements and they have produced
great dividends, the love and admiration of
thousands of friends; and who could ask for
greater wealth! On Wednesday evening,
the night of President Penrose’s birthday,
there gathered in the large assembly room
of the Bishop’s building about five hundred
of his friends to pay him homage. The en-
tertainment was under the direction of the
Genealogical Society and was a most pleas-
ing affair. The program was rendered by
members of President Penrose’s family who
showed marked talent along literary and
musical lines. All the songs and poems
were the composition of the guest of honor.
A most interesting feature was a biograph-
cal sketch prepared and read by Mrs. Jessie
Penrose Jones, the oldest daughter, in which
all the important events in President Pen-
rose’s life were mentioned—the fact being
brought forth that he read the scriptures
at the age of four and has been a student of
sacred history ever since.
	The different numbers on the program
were announced by E. C. Penrose, one of
the sons, who told when and in under what
circumstances the different hymns were
written, thus giving some valuable histori-
cal information.
	President Joseph F. Smith and President
Anthon H. Lund each made affectionate and
felicitous remarks, after which the guest
of the occasion expressed his appreication
and spoke in his usual happy manner. Re-
freshments were served by the ladies of the
Genealogical Society and an informal re-
ception followed the program.
	President Penrose was showered with
flowers and congratulations from his numer-
ous friends. The occasion was in every re-
spect pleasing, and the Exponent joins with
his many friends in kindest wishes for Presi-
dent Penrose and, in the hope that his useful
life may be continued for many, many years.


NOTICE!
	The publication of the WOMAN’S EX-
PONENT ceases with this issue. Any one
having any claim against or being indebted
to the paper, will kindly settle the matter as
soon as possible; either by calling on Mrs.
Emmeline B. Wells at room 28 Bishop’s
Building, or by writing her at that address
or to Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, 1320 South
9th West Street, Salt Lake City.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SOWING AND REAPING.
Sow with a generous hand;
	Pause not for toil or pain;
Weary not through the heart of summer,
	Weary not through the cold spring rain;
But wait till the Autumn comes
	For the sheaves of golden grain.

Scatter the seed, and fear not,
	A table will be spread;
What matter if you are too weary
	To eat your hard-earned bread!
Sow while the earth is broken,
	For the hungry must be fed.

Sow;—while the seeds are lying
	In the warm earth’s brown deep,
And your warm tears fall upon it,—
	They will stir in their quiet sleep;
And the green blades arise the quicker,
	Perchance for the tears you weep.

Then sow;—for the hours are fleeting,
	And the seed must fall today;
And care not what hands shall reap it,
	Or if you shall have passed away
Before the waving corn fields
	Shall gladden the sunny day.

Sow; and look onward, upward,
	Where the starry light appears,—
Where in spite of the coward’s doubting,
	Or your own heart’s trembling fears,
You shall reap in joy the harvest
	You have sown today in tears.
			ADELAIDE A. PROCTOR.


CAPITAL CITIES IN COLONIAL DAYS.
	In the first place there was really not
one single city that could properly be called
the capital, though the one that comes near-
est claiming that distinction is Philadelphia,
and she had to divide the honor with New
York. Surely we can not speak of the
colonial cities without saying something of
Boston. For, as Governor Hutchinson
said, in 1773: “For many years past the
town of Boston has been used to interest
itself in every affair of moment which con-
cerned the Province in general.” Certainly
Boston sought to do all that it could to give
form to the action of the colonists in other
parts not only of Massachusetts but of all
America. The story of the city of Boston
can not be told, therefore, without reference
to several events that were going on in other
parts of the land. The story of Boston calls
us to a study of our independence, to a con-
templation, first, of a vigorous struggle by
strong men and women for a century and a
half, against a powerful monarchy; and next
to an examination of the fruits of that con-
flict in the development of a typical Amer-
ican civilization. Up to the year 1629 or
1630, England had done but little in the
way of settling the new lands in the west,
though she made great claims upon Amer-
ca, through the discoveries of Cabot. There
had, it is true, been considerable exploration
under Elizabeth, but it was not until the
reign of James I that anything creditable
and enduring was actually accomplished.
	The 26th day of August, 1629, is an im-
portant date in the history of Boston. On
that day the decision was taken that deter-
mined the settlement of the town. Had it
not been for a conclusion then reached by
a company of discreet gentlemen who met
at Cambridge, England, the promontory
called Shawmut by the Indians, might have
been peopled by quite a different class of
settlers from those who made it their first
home in America. In speaking of these first
settlers of Massachusetts, James Russell
Lowell said:
	“There never was a colony, save this, that
went forth, not to seek gold, but God.” And


[Column 1]
Josiah Quincy said: “Civil independence was
as truly their object as religious liberty.”
	In the year 1630 Puritan colonists came
from England under the leadership of
Thomas Dudley and John Winthrop, and
founded the town of Boston. The new-
comers first called it Trimount, from the
three peaks which Beacon Hill originally
showed. The name was afterward changed
to Boston for old Boston in England, in
honor of Winthrop’s leaders, who came
from that place. For nearly two centuries
Boston remained under the simple form of
a town government by all the citizens as-
sembled in “town meeting.” The city char-
ter was not granted until 1832. It is impos-
sible to give a very general description of 
the city, but the original site, with its unin-
viting natural features and what the people 
made of it, is a fairly good indication of
their courage, energy and ability. Boston
was built on a pear-shaped peninsula in-
dented by coves and bordered by salt
marshes. Its surface was rocky, abrupt and
irregular, and such it was until after the
Revolution. The streets were narrow and
crooked, many of them merely lanes and
alleys. The buildings scattered and de-
tached, only four being of stone, in 1776.
Of these, Kings chapel yet remains. Com-
paratively few were of brick, the latter in-
cluding Fanuel Hall, the town (now called
old State house), Christ’s Church and the
Old South Meeting House—still treasured
land-marks.
	At the time of the Revolution Boston was
the richest and most powerful and populous
city in the colonies. Yet it contained only
2,000 buildings and less than 20,000 inhab-
tants. In and near this old town were en-
acted the first stirring scenes in our war for
independence. From here the British went
out to meet the ‘embattled farmers of Lex-
ington and Concord, and fought the battle
of Bunker Hill, followed by the seige of
Boston, and the evacuation forced by Wash-
ington, March 17, 1776.
	From its foundation, the tone of society
in Boston was serious, owing to the Puritan
influence. She was inclined to regard her
rival cities as frivolous in their pursuits,
owing to her advantages. Situated upon so
large and excellent a harbor, Boston has al-
ways been a great commercial and industrial
city. The first bank in America, historians
say, was established in Boston, in 1686. Ed-
ucationally, she has always taken first rank.
In colonial days, to which we must confine
ourselves at this time, certainly no other
city wielded a more powerful influence in
 the shaping of our young nation’s destiny,
than did the chief city of the old Bay State.
	New York. The original Indian name
of New York City was Manhattan. The
first European visitor was Gioiasini Vera-
zani, who entered New York Bay in 1525,
but he made no landing. The real discov-
erer and explorer of those regions was
Heindrich Hudson, a mariner employed by
a Dutch trading company. He explored
New York Bay and the great river which
bears his name, in 1609, in his little ship, the
Half Moon. Ten years later Adrian Block
visited Manhattan, made a landing and es-
tablished a trading station. In 1614, States
General of Holland chartered the United
New Netherland Company to engage in
trade at Manhattan, and a fort and trad- 
ing house were built on the southern point
of the island, and called Fort Amsterdam.
A permanent village settlement was effected

[Column 2]
in 1623 under the name of New Amster-
dam. The first white male child born, on
the island was Jean Vigne, in 1614. The
first white girl, Sarah Rapalje, was born in
1625. Peter Minnit, the first important gov-
ernor of the new colony arrived in 1626,
and from that time the growth of the town
was rapid. In 1652, New Amsterdam was
incorporated as a city, and the next year
was inclosed at the north by a wall of earth
and timber 2340 feet long, on the present site
of Wall Street.
	We know that England, by right of dis-
covery, claimed this territory, as well as that
to the north and south of it, so she did not
encourage any claims of those who had set-
tled upon these lands unless by her own
grants. On March 12, 1664, this whole col-
ony of New Amsterdam was granted, by
Charles IV, then king of England, to his
brother, the Duke of York, and in August of
that year was forcibly seized by a British
fleet. The place was then named New York
in honor of its new owner. The Dutch were
not disposed to submit tamely and without a
struggel to this seizure of what they
deemed their rightful possessions, and in
1673, the Dutch seized it again and renamed
it New Orange, but a year later it was re-
stored to the English—and for good, this
time. An organized government and code
of laws were established in 1691, and on
April 9th of that year the first colonial as-
sembly met in the city. In 1825 the first
newspaper, the New York Gazette, was
founded; in 1730 a fortnightly stage ser-
vice to Philadelphia was established; in 1752
the Royal Exchange was opened at the foot
of Broad Street; in 1754, Kings (now Co-
lumbia) College was chartered and in 1768
the chamber of commerce was organized.
Nowhere is the truth more plain than that
the story of a community is told in the
lives of its inhabitants. The story of Bos-
ton, for instance, deals with the doings of
a community of very earnest men who, for
a century and a half, had no considerable
interests except those connected with poli-
tics and religion. This influence was notice-
able in every phase of life in Massachusetts.
In New York it was quite different. The
people were as diversified in temperament,
interests, religion and principle as they were
united in Boston. The difference is as
marked from the beginning of the history
of the two cities. Social activity, club life
and every phase of commercialism is to be
seen from the beginning in New York. 
There was a peculiarly aristocratic structure
in New York society, which gave many of
its most brilliant names to our nation’s his-
tory, like the Livingstons, Chintons, Schuy-
lers, and many others. There was also more
of the lower strains of humanity in the city
than others of colonial days, and the effect
was most pronounced. There were Dutch
Reformed and Huguenot congregations,
Presbyterians, Catholics, and a large follow-
ing of Episcopalians, each found their own
proper place in New York. The spirit of
resistance to British rule made its appear-
ance in New York at an early date. The
Stamp Act congress was organized in 1865;
so was the league known as the Sons of
Liberty. The Stamp Act was publicly
burned, cargoes of taxed tea were thrown
over-board, a liberty pole was erected on
the common, near the City Hall Park, and
rigorous public demonstrations were made
against the British garrison. One of the
earliest conflicts of the war occurred in John

[Column 3]
Street, between Sons of Liberty and British
troops, on the same day the equestrian statue
of George III, on Bowling Green, was
pulled down and transformed into bullets
for the use of the American army. In the
spring of 1776 the bulk of the patriot army
was massed in New York, and on July 8th
the Declaration of Independence was pub-
licly proclaimed and read to the troops. Af-
ter the battle of Long Island the American
troops were gradually withdrawn, and
passed into the hands of the British, who
held it under rigid military rule until No-
vember 25, 1783, when the last of their
garrison evacuated the city, and the Amer-
can troops took possession. A few weeks
later Washington took farewell of his offi-
cers at Francis Tavern, at the corner of
Broad and Pearl Streets. From 1790 New
York has ranked as the most populous city
in the United States. Of what she is today
we cannot speak, except to say that now, as
from the beginning, the beauty, in fact every
phase of the city’s life, is as varied as the
people themselves. After the birth of the
Union, the selection of a capital was not
easily settled. The north, the south, and the
middle states wanted it. The site at Wash-
ington was selected as a courtesy to the
south. New York, however, was chosen as
the first capital of the young republic. In
January, 1785 (still in the colonial period,
be it remembered), Congress removed from
Philadelphia to New York and met in Fed-
eral Hall, at the corner of Wall and Nassau
Streets, now the site of the United States
sub-treasury. In the same building Wash-
ington was inaugurated as president on
April 30, 1789, and there the first Congress
under the Constitution held its first meet-
ings. New York remained the first capital
for five years, after which Philadelphia
claimed the honor again, and held it until
the permanent removal to Washington.
	Philadelphia. If we must decide upon
any one single city where most interest cen-
tralized during the latter colonial days and
those of the revolution. I think we would
unhesitatingly name “the city of brotherly
love, Philadelphia. In 1636 Queen Chris-
tiana of Sweden, sent a boat of Swedish
colonists to the village of Wiceaco, now a
part of the main city, an Indian town which
also once stood within the present city limits.
In 1677 the Swedes erected a log church
which also served as a fort. In 1700 this
was torn down, and a brick structure erect-
ed on the site known as the old Swedish
Church, which still stands in the southern
part of the city on the banks of the Dela-
ware.
	The Dutch vessel Onrust, with Captain
Hendrickson commanding, explored the
Delaware, in 1623, and in 1651 the Dutch
built Fort Casinni, which was captured by
the Swedes in 1654, retaken by the Dutch
the same year, captured by the English in
1664, surrendered to the Dutch again in
1673, and finally given over to the English
by the treaty of 1674. William Penn’s dep-
uty governor and cousin, Captain William
Markham, arrived at Philadelphia in Oc-
tober, 1681, and Penn’s commissioners in
the early summer of 1682. William Penn
himself, with a large company of Friends,
or Quakers, reached Newcastle on the Del-
aware on October 27, 1682. The City of
Philadelphia had been named, surveyed,
plotted and the lots occupied by some set-
tlers in July, 1682. The Dutch and Ger-
man pioneers who had been invited by Penn


[Column 1]
to remove to Pennsylvania, arrived at
Philadelphia October 6, 1683, and settled
Germantown, now a ward of the city. This
emigration is notable because four of the
emigrants, Gerhard Hendricks, Dirk Op-
dere Graeff, Francis Daniel Pastorins and
Abraham Opden Graep, on April 18, 1688,
sent to the Friends meeting the first public
protest ever made in America against the
holding of slaves; also, because, in 1690,
the first paper mill in America was erected
by William Rittinghuysen, a Dutch emi-
grant. Here was made the paper used by
William Bradford, the earliest printer in
the middle colonies, and because Sarver, the
governor printer of Germantown, printed in
German three quarto editions of the Bible
before an edition in English had been print-
ed in America. Religious and civil liberty
were encouraged by William Penn’s gov-
ernment, but the leaders of society in Phil-
adelphia were not clergymen, as in Massa-
chusetts, but lawyers, like John Dickenson,
and they had great respect for the estab-
lished laws, and thought that all legal meth-
ods for settling difficulties should be ex-
hausted before force was resorted to. This
made them temperate and wise in council
and debate, and gave to their capital city
the reputation for moderation which she
has always held.
	Opposition to the Stamp Act took form in
1765, the act of parliament imposing duties
upon paper and tea was resisted in 1768,
and when, in 1773 the news reached Phila-
delphia that the tea ships were on their
way, the people met in the state house on
October 17 and adopted resolutions which
were unanimously re-adopted by the Boston
meeting on November 5. The tea ship
Polly, commanded by Captain Ayers, from
London, anchored near Philadelphia two
days after Christmas, but was not allowed
to discharge her cargo.
	Carpenter’s Hall was the meeting place of
the first Continental Congress, of 1774, and
the state house that of the second Congress,
which met May 2, 1776, agreed on the reso-
lution declaring that the United Colonies
“are and of right ought to be free and inde-
pendent states.” On July 8, the Declara-
tion of Independence was first publicly read
by John Nixon from the platform of the
observatory which then stood in the square
back of the hall. From the beginning of
the war, Philadelphia was the center of
stirring events. Trenton, Brandywine and
Valley Forge are all within an hour’s ride
from that city. Lord Howe entered Phil-
adelphia September 26, 1777, and Con-
gress fled to New York. The British with-
drew in June, 1778, and Congress then
again returned. When the American army
took possession of the city, Benedict Arnold
was placed in command, and you know the
tragic outcome of his vanity and extrava-
gances. As already stated, in 1785 Con-
gress met in New York, but in May, 1787,
the convention which formed the Constitu-
tion of the United States met in Philadel-
phia, in the state house. Under the federal
Constitution, Philadelphia was the capital
of the United States from 1790 to 1800,
and in the building, still standing at the
southeast corner of Sixth and Chestnut
streets, George Washington was inaugu-
rated as President for a second term, and
John Adams and Thomas Jefferson as
President and Vice President. America
has had a most wonderful growth, and
beautiful cities cover the land, but the natal

[Column 2]
city of the Declaration of Independence and
the Constitution of the United States will
always hold a first place in the hearts of
loyal Americans. But aside from the pa-
triotic side, Philadelphia ranks among the
foremost cities in every line of progressive
development, socially and educationally,
she has had few rivals. In colonial days
she was unquestionably the leader in scien-
tific and social culture. John Adams wrote
his wife that he was amazed to find so much
depth and breadth of knowledge beneath
what to the New Englander seemed extrav-
agance and frivolity in social life.
	As one of Philadelphia’s daughters
wrote of her city: “She is content to grow
symmetrically and if grace and strength
keep pace,with her increasing bulk, she is
content to face the future.” It can hold
closely to the past, recollecting its lessons,
valuing its traditions, respecting its mem-
ory, and loving in her cold, steadfast
passion, the living links which connect her
with her honorable history and unite her
past in the great story of the nation.
	(Read at the meeting of the Daughters
of the Revolution, Jan. 16, 1914.
			JULIA P. M. FARNSWORTH.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	MADAME MOUNTFORD.
	Madame Lydia Mary Mamreoff von
Finkelstein Mountford has a family tree
that makes the oldest Occidental genealogy
look about as new and shiny as a piece of
plated ware. She talks about her ancestor,
Melchizedek, as any American woman
would speak of one of the Pilgrim Fathers.
Madame Mountford was born in Palestine.
She speaks with ease at a remarkable rate
of speed Arabic, Russian, English, French
and German. She spent her happiest hours
in childhood playing under the trees on the
Mount of Olives or strolling with her father
through the quiet walks of the Garden of
Gethsemane. As a girl of eighteen she was
baptized in the Episcopal Church of Jeru-
salem.
	“We Orientals,” says Madame Mount-
ford, “think in centuries, in a way that is
difficult for the Occidental mind to follow.
trace my genealogy back to the line of
Melchizedek and to Davidic line on my
mother’s side. On my father’s side of the
house I go back to the Mamres and the
house of Ephraim. Mamre was a confed- 
erate of Abraham, and allowed him to pitch
his tents under his oaks and to ‘dwell in the
plains of Mamre,’ as you have read in
Genesis. When the Mamres became asso-
ciated with Russia through intermarriage
the affix ‘off,’ meaning ‘of,’ was added,
the name Mamre becoming Mamreoff. Their
crest remained the Palestine oak tree of the
plains of Mamre.
	“Maybe you would like to see the ring of
Melchizedek,” continued Madame Mount-
ford, raising her hand to the light so that
an enormous heart-shaped ruby reflected
the rays of the sun. “This ring has been in

[Column 2]
the Mamreoff family for centuries and cen-
turies. Here on my couch lies a garment
woven before America was a nation,” and
she lifted for inspection a superb garment
woven of thread of gold.
	Madame Mountford is at present install-
ing at the American University of Washing-
ton what is said to be one of the most com-
plete and remarkable Biblical museums in
the world. The collection consists of hun-
dreds of magnificent handwoven garments,
many of which have been handed down the
centuries in Palestine, and all of which
are authentic representations of the mode of
dress of Biblical days.
	“In my collection,” madame told me,
“there are also rare scrolls, ancient precious
stones and coins, and much else of value
taken from the very spots in which the most
stirring scenes of Biblical drama were en-
acted. The collection, which is at present
being catalogued, is the work of a lifetime
on my part, and is valued at thousands of
dollars. I did not present it to your na-
tional museum, because there it would have
lost effectiveness by being merely one of .
many great collections. At the American
University it will stand out conspicuously.
I wanted to place it in America, and in
Washington. I hope it may become a mat-
ter of national interest to this great coun-
try.”
	Madame Mountford’s eldest brother,
Peter, was the friend and private secre-
tary of the late William H. Seward, who
first met him when on a visit to Jerusalem,
and who urged him to come to America. Her
sister also came to this country and for some 
years held the chair of languages and Eng-
lish literature at Binghampton College, New
York.
	Madame Mountford is a member of the
congressional committee appointed by the
National Woman Suffrage Association to
plead with Congress for a suffrage amend-
ment to the Constitution. She has told the
story of life and customs handed down in
Palestine from Biblical days to the present
time to tens of thousands of people in Amer-
ca, England, Australia and India.—
Selene A. Harmon, from the Seattle Times.


THIRTY-FOURTH
ANNUAL ANNOUNCEMENT
			OF
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp’s
	SCHOOL OF NURSING
	AND OBSTETRICS
	Beginning October 6, 1913.
	Hours 9 to 12 a.m.
For full particulars communicate with
	ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.,
713 Second Avenue, Salt Lake City, Utah

R. K. THOMAS CO.,		67-69 MAIN STREET,
						SALT LAKE CITY.
	The most becoming Styles in Ladies’
	Suits, Coats, Dresses, Skirts, and 
	Waists at Popular Prices....
THE STORE WHERE YOU CAN FEEL AT HOME

